 
•	  The Colorado Psychological Association, 94.3 FM KILO, Century Communications and the funktion Respond to Recent School Shootings with Youth...
•	  Hartford Financial's CEO Sees Commercial Insurance Market Improving 
•	  Stock Futures Report: Analyst Sees S&P's Up On 11000 Dow 
•	 PLENTY TO DO TO DETER NEXT SCHOOL SHOOTING
•	  Sell-Off in Market Leaders Sends U.S. Stocks Lower 
•	  N.Y. Late Market Comment -3: Nasdaq Off 5.5%; S&P Off 2.2% 
•	  Compaq: no focus, no strategy and now no leader 
•	  Newspaper Says IBM Germany Sees Strong Growth In Computer Industry 
•	  BUSINESS DIGEST 
•	 U.S. EARNINGS 
•	  Software AG's biggest distributor accused of insider trading 
•	 SEBADOH ONCE AGAIN IS ROUGH AND READY  
•	  Mexico's IPC Index Closes Near Its Record High; Asian Markets Take Cue From Strong U.S. Rally 
•	  Dow Jones Industrials Rise To Another Record Close 
•	  ANGRY INVESTORS RALLY TO INCREASE COMPAQ WOES SHARES IN THE PERSONAL-COMPUTER COMPANY TUMBLED ALMOST $7 AFTER AN EARNINGS WARNING SURPRISED...
•	  Intel -3: Co. Says 2Q Outlook Fits Seasonal Trends >INTC 
•	  H-P CEO -2: PCs Will Continue To Be Viable Business >HWP 
•	  U.S. Shares In London Flat; Mkt Cautious Ahead Of Key Data 
•	  Dollar Declines Against Euro, Yen On Stock Worries 
•	  U.S. stocks hit new highs on bargain hunting. 
•	  Pound lifted vs dlr, euro in Europe after BRC data. 
•	  Emerging market debt mixed on low volume. 
•	  MARKET SAVVY SAVVY CONFIDENTIAL / A Briefing for Investors Compaq's Warning and Fallout for Funds 
•	  Evening Standard, London, Asian Markets Column 
•	  Dollar Ends Lower Against Yen, Euro Amid Early Fears of Tumble in Stocks 
•	 Compaq's  profit warning  surprisingly ignored by the market
•	  Dollar Falls Against Yen, Euro on Jitters Over Stocks 
•	 DOW CRACKS 10,300 MARK FOR FIRST TIME
•	  FFBN Drug Wrap:Stocks End Week w/45 Basis Pt Gain (CONT) 
•	  Foreign Exchange: Dollar Modestly Lower Against Major Currencies 
•	  Forex Options: Volatilities Falling As Dlr Makes Slight Gain 
•	  Small-Cap Stocks: Russell 2000 Holds Steady As Nasdaq Dips 
•	  Japan's Toshiba, NEC Stocks Dn On Compaq's 1Q Pft Preview 
•	  World Forex: Dollar Slips Vs Yen, Euro On DJIA Worries 
•	  N.Y. Stocks: Mkt Dn Early On Compaq Warn But DJIA Swings Up 
•	  N.Y. Late Market Comment -3: S&P, Nasdaq Records 
•	  Japan's Toshiba, NEC Stocks Dn On Compaq's 1Q Pft Preview 
•	  World Forex: Dollar Slips Vs Yen, Euro On DJIA Worries 
•	  Small-Cap Stks Extend Gains As Financial Services Surge 
•	  Small-Cap Stocks: Russell 2000 Holds Steady As Nasdaq Dips 
•	  Dollar/yen back above 120, euro/yen testing lows. 
•	  Belgian Bel-20 negative in quiet early trade. 
•	  Dollar/yen sets new low, euro/dollar near Mon peak. 
•	  Dollar/yen probes Monday low, euro/dlr steady. 
•	  FX IN EUROPE-Dollar pressured by U.S. stock worry. 
•	  FX IN EUROPE-Dlr losses curbed as Dow stabilises. 
•	  FX IN EUROPE - Dollar dented by U.S. stock worry. 
•	  Stocks hit new highs on bargain hunting, bonds firm. 
•	  DIARY-Today in U.S. Treasuries-Monday, April 12. 
•	  Belgian Bel-20 ends off lows as Dow recovers. 
•	  BOND MARKETS-Hold slight gains as Dow defies fears. 
•	  Emerging debt weaker on Compaq warning, Kosovo. 
•	  Dlr/yen hits 1-1/2-wk low, euro/Swedish crown up. 
•	  Dlr probes lows vs yen, euro, Swedish crown weak. 
•	  Dlr soft as market eyes Dow, Swedish crown weak. 
•	 FOCUS-Compaq  profit warning  knocks stocks, dlr.
•	  Dollar soft early in Europe, focus on U.S. stocks. 
•	  Dlr/yen near session trough, Swedish crown slips. 
•	  Dollar/yen grappling with 120, euro/yen soft. 
•	 Compaq's  profit warning  surprisingly ignored by the market
•	  Compaq stock slides 23 percent 
•	 TODAY'S MARKET; DOW UP; TECH FEARS HOLD BACK NASDAQ
•	  U.S. Tsys Hold Early Gains After Coupon Pass; 30Y Up 17/32 
•	  N.Y. Early: Dlr Dn Vs Euro, Yen As Mkt Braces Stock Fall 
•	  Aust stocks weaker near noon on US fall fear. 
•	 PATHOGENESIS RATED `ACCUMULATE' AFTER BIOTECH'S SHARP FALL
•	  4TH QUARTER STINGS SUN HEALTHCARE THE WIDER-THAN-EXPECTED LOSS CAUSED THE NURSING-HOME OPERATOR TO FAIL TO MEET THE TERMS OF A LOAN DEAL. 
•	  COMPAQ'S EARNINGS WILL BE WAY OFF MARK 
•	  Headlines From Washington Post For Saturday 
•	  Global Growth-Stock's Moe: Compaq News Won't Dampen Techs 
•	  Industrial Average Soars to Record 
•	  Chevron, Wal-Mart and Citigroup Help Keep Market Riding High 
•	  REPEAT:=NY Stks Seen Rising -2: Helped By World Mkts 
•	  N.Y. Stocks Seen Rising -2: Helped By World Markets 
•	  N.Y. Late Market Comment -3: Nasdaq Up Despite Mixed Techs 
•	  N.Y. Stocks Seen Rising -2: Helped By World Markets 
•	  Around the World's Markets - New York. 
•	  U.S. Shares In London Up; Investors Await Wall St Upside 
•	  Dow falls on earnings jitters, bonds rally. 
•	 Market Savvy  Profit Warning  Pricks Dow's Latest Bubble Wall St.: Gillette announcement also sends broader market mostly lower. Bond yields fall.
•	 Gillette Drops on  Profit Warning ; Colgate, Coca-Cola, GE, IBM Fall
•	  Headlines From Washington Post For Wednesday 
•	 MCI WORLDCOM STARTS DANCE WITH NEXTEL
•	  Dow falls on earnings jitters, bonds rally, dollar dips. 
•	  U.S. stocks gain early on jobless rate. 
•	  There is often a high price to pay for that coveted Nasdaq listing. 
•	  U.S. Shares In London Higher Despite Kosovo Developments 
•	  Pill pusher pushes regulators' limits 



 The Colorado Psychological Association, 94.3 FM KILO, Century Communications and the funktion Respond to Recent School Shootings with Youth Forum Focusing on Warning Signs of Violence 

322 words
27 April 1999
13:14
PR Newswire
PRN
English
(c) 1999 PR Newswire


         MTV Special is Screened for Local Youth with Discussion
                     Moderated by KILO DJ Don Jantzen
  What:  In an effort to stem rising rates of youth violence, the Colorado
         Psychological Association (CPA), 94.3 FM KILO radio, Century
         Communications and the funktion, an all-ages dance club, are
         bringing together hundreds of Colorado young people, psychologists
         and KILO afternoon drive radio announcer Don Jantzen to:
         -- View a 30-minute special produced by MTV:  Music Television and
            the American Psychological Association (APA) that identifies
            warning signs of potentially violent behavior and what young
            people can do when they recognize these signs in themselves and
            in their peers.
         -- Participate in a dynamic youth forum with psychologists and host
            Don Jantzen about violence and ways to prevent it.
  When:  Tuesday, April 27, 1999, 7:00 p.m.



 doors open;
         program begins at 7:45 p.m.
  Where: the funktion, 5917 N. Academy Blvd.
         located at Vickers and Academy in Colorado Springs
  Why:   The forum in part of a national MTV/APA partnership on youth
         violence and is one of many similar forums being held across the
         country.  The APA/MTV partnership is part of "Fight for Your
         Rights:  Take a Stand Against Violence," MTV's 1999 pro-social
         campaign, in which the U.S. Department of Education, Department of
         Justice, other federal agencies and non-profit organizations are
         partners.
  Who:   KILO host Don Jantzen; psychologists:  Dr. Bruce Brian, Dr. Ruth
         Gonzalez and Dr. John Bermudez, Century Communications
         representatives and hundreds of youth from all over Colorado
         Springs.
  Media: Taped copies of the 30-minute "Warning Signs" documentary will be
         available.


Document prn0000020010829dv4r01enb




 Hartford Financial's CEO Sees Commercial Insurance Market Improving 

 By Anne Colden, Staff Reporter 
873 words
23 April 1999
20:19
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Ramani Ayer, chairman, president and chief executive of Hartford Financial Services Inc., is cautiously optimistic that price increases in the commercial insurance market will begin to improve the outlook for that line of business by the end of the year. 

 Ayer, in an interview with Dow Jones Newswires, said rate increases that Hartford (HIG) started to enact about a year ago have been sticking. In other words, commercial customers are renewing their policies with Hartford, rather than looking for a cheaper policy with another company. 

 Ayer's comments echo those of other insurance industry executives, who have said - anecdotally at least - that price cutting in that line of insurance seems to have reached its nadir. 

 Few industry observers or company officials are declaring an outright "turn in the cycle," which would mean a shift from selling insurance that is underpriced, to insurance sold at a profit. But enough companies have said they are raising rates for commercial customers that some people are becoming more hopeful. 

 "There's evidence that the marketplace is seeing the same kind of action by other (companies)," Ayer said. "And there's a greater chance that the 1999 commercial outlook will be better." 

 Hartford derived a little more than half of its $6.1 billion in North American property-casualty premiums in 1998 from commercial insurance. Premiums from large commercial businesses have declined, as Hartford pulled away from accounts it deemed underpriced. 

 Hartford has been more successful at adding business in small commercial accounts, where premiums grew 9% in 1998. Ayer said that kind of premium growth is "very achievable" this year. 

 Workers' compensation premiums represented about 18% of the total commercial insurance market in 1998; therefore, rate increases in that business would significantly help overall commercial results. Some industry observers have speculated the prices charged for workers' compensation insurance could start to rise in the wake of a collapse of a pool of companies that sold reinsurance - insurance for insurers - on a portion of workers' compensation coverage. 

 As one of the industry"s biggest players in workers' compensation, Hartford would benefit from an improvement in that market, Ayer said. But even if it doesn"t improve, "We're certainly following a disciplined course in commercial lines. You can't wait for generic turns in the marketplace. You have to do what you believe is right for your business," he said. 

 Ayer wouldn't comment specifically on first-quarter earnings, which the company is scheduled to release Monday after the market closes. The mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call Corp. is for operating earnings per share of 91 cents in the quarter and $3.86 for the year. In last year's first quarter, Hartford reported operating earnings of 84 cents a share, adjusted for a stock split, on income of $201 million. 

 Though the company doesn't separate earnings by business segments, Ayer said he foresees low double-digit earnings growth in auto and homeowners insurance for the remainder of the year. He said the outlook for margins in auto insurance remains good. 

 Hartford's premium in auto and homeowners insurance rose 17% in 1998, about 9% of which came from its February 1998 purchase of Omni Insurance Group Inc., an insurer of higher-risk drivers. By the end of the year, Hartford will have expanded Omni into some 33 states, up from 13 when it bought the company, Ayer said. 

 "Premium growth in personal lines won"t be 17% this year, but you'll see significant growth," perhaps in the 8%-10% range, said Keefe Bruyette & Woods analyst Michael Paisan. 

 Hartford's stock was one of the better performers among the property-casualty group last year, rising 17%, on a split-adjusted basis, compared with the S&P property casualty index, which fell 8%. Hartford's stock is up about 8% so far this year. 

 Analysts who follow the company said some investor interest has been fueled by takeover speculation - Hartford is seen as an attractive target of a bank or a foreign insurer. But they also point to its diverse earnings stream and its consistency. "Last year they were on target every quarter," said Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette analyst Alain Karaoglan. "They've met earnings while others have stumbled." 

 Salomon Smith Barney analyst Ronald W. Frank is one of a few analysts who rate Hartford shares "neutral." Frank said Hartford is a well-run company, and his rating reflects a view that the shares are "efficiently priced." He also has a "negative view" of the commercial property-casualty industry in general. Hartford could be an attractive takeover target but, he said, "We don't consider this a sufficient basis for a recommendation." 

 Ayer is also positive about the prospects for Hartford Life Inc. (HLI), Hartford"s 80%-owned life insurance company. Although some industry observers have been warning that profit margins are likely to get even thinner and sales of hot-selling annuities will slow, Ayer said: "The angst about variable annuities is overdone, in my view." 

 -By Anne Colden; 201-938-5299 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020329dv4n02c3g




 Stock Futures Report: Analyst Sees S&P's Up On 11000 Dow 

 By Ann Keeton 
295 words
23 April 1999
18:30
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 CHICAGO (Dow Jones)--The June contract of Standard & Poors' stock index futures was trading in a fairly tight range Friday as profit-takers slowed buying momentum that led to new market highs Thursday. But an analyst said that there's a few a little more gas left in the markets' tank. 

 "Today looks like a normal consolidation day, after a fairly decent week for S&P futures," said Greg Nie, a technical analyst at Everen Securities. 

 "There's still some upward momentum in the market, and I would expect us to hit new highs early next week before we get into overbought territory." Nie said he sees the Dow Jones Industrial Average moving upward to 11000 next week, which will give a push to the S&P contract. After that, he said, "I would look for S&P's to trade 5% to 10% lower." 

 For the near-term, "we're in a see-saw trading pattern," Nie said. "All the warning flags from the first quarter are still in the market. We'll see rallies followed by quick profit-taking in the next few weeks, and volatility is going to stay on the high side." 

 Around 1:00 p.m. EDT, the June contract of Standard & Poor's stock index futures inched into positive territory for the first time in the session, trading up 0.40 points to 1369.50 at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. 


At the Chicago Board of Trade, the June contract of Dow Jones
Industrial Average stock index futures was off 25 points at 10770.
   -Ann Keeton 312-750-4120



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  04-23-99



01:30 PM


Document dj00000020010826dv4n02uoj


EDITORIAL
PLENTY TO DO TO DETER NEXT SCHOOL SHOOTING

938 words
22 April 1999
Peoria Journal Star
PRJS
ALL
A4
English
Copyright 1999, Peoria Journal Star. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

`You should be safe at school. It should be a safe place. " -- An unidentified Columbine High School student, following the worst act

of school violence in American history.

And to think "columbine" used to define a beautiful flower. Now it names a gruesome, ugly tragedy. It is customary at this point to engage in several paragraphs of editorial hand-wringing, deploring the violent culture and easy access to heavy artillery that may have helped make possible Tuesday's mass murder and maiming at a Littleton, Colo., high school. We did so following the kiddie shootings in Pearl, Miss.; West Paducah, Ky.; Springfield, Ore.; Jonesboro, Ark.; and we do so again now. If only, we lament, there was something, anything, we could do.

And what follows is the traditional whine that if some suicidal lunatic is dead set on making a big splash and taking lots of innocent people with him, there may be little anyone can do to stop him. This nation is not going to repeal the First and Second Amendments that give people the right to spew their garbage and to own their weapons. We might as well try to outlaw alienated teens.

And yet, the tearful, grief-stricken girl quoted above is right. If there's anyplace in America that must be a war-free zone, it's the classroom. It tears at our guts to hear of the student writing a good-bye letter to her parents as she sought cover.

And so this society must do something, in fact many things simultaneously. We may fail, but we must try. Here are a few ideas: -- Do more to keep guns away from unsupervised schoolkids. We don't yet know where the two boys responsible for this attack got their assault rifle and two sawed-off shotguns. The homemade bombs they used also did no small amount of harm. But we can think of no other weapons, short of a missile, which could do so much damage in such a short amount of time, or against which their victims would be so defenseless.

It seems a no-brainer that Illinois and other states should pass legislation that would require gun owners to store their weapons beyond the reach of children, with mandatory trigger locks. No, this won't eliminate gun crimes committed by children. But we see no reason to make homicidal rampages easy. -- Try to identify and intervene on behalf of seriously troubled teens before they make the nation's front pages. If there's a central Illinois high school or middle school with an adequate number of counselors, please step forward. Increasing their numbers and their training would be tax dollars well spent. -- Be vigilant; there are no safe zones. The major catastrophes have occurred at rural and suburban schools with no such violent histories, which may make it all the more tempting for school officials in those places to let down their guard. -- Post the profile and early-warning signs of potentially homicidal rage, and teach students and staff that there's no shame in drawing the aberrant behavior or rhetoric of a friend or acquaintance to the attention of someone in authority. In Illinois an anonymous, toll-free, 24-hour safe schools hotline exists for just such a purpose. The number is 1-800-477-0024. Write it down now and show your kids where it is. Let them also know this is not a place for prank calls. -- Cut the volume of hate speech and hate images that often precede hate action. We won't hold our breath, but maybe the Matt Hales and Marilyn Mansons of the world will think twice about the venom they dispense for notoriety and profit. Perhaps Hollywood will take note, as well. -- Practice the Golden Rule, which would have everyone treating others the way he wishes to be treated. Adolescence can be an especially brutal time. The two shooters were described as outcasts who had been subjected to ridicule and derision. Nothing excuses the evil they have unleashed -- grossly disproportionate to any treatment they may have received -- but sometimes an ounce of kindness is worth a ton of prevention. -- The tragic situation in Colorado is undeniably news. But where do media draw the line between providing a public service and giving these perpetrators the attention, however negative, some so obviously crave? Wish we knew. -- Finally, and most importantly: Parents, pay attention. Both these boys came from two-parent families. We know nothing else about them. But at least one kid had a web page espousing all kinds of hateful, neo-Nazi demagoguery. This attack was obviously premeditated. It took time and materials to build all those bombs. These guns were acquired and kept somewhere. It seems incredible that someone living under the same roof didn't notice.

We could entertain many other ideas: metal detectors and turning schools into locked fortresses and all the rest. But we are loathe to go that route, even now, until all other avenues of common sense and self responsibility have been exhausted. Moreover, their protective ability is not what it's cracked up to be. These kids, who began shooting outside school, would have shot their way past a metal detector.

Sure, America could be turned into a police state. With each one of these slaughters, we inch that much closer to becoming just that. Government could take money now targeted for art and music and computers and spend it all on security. But this wouldn't be America anymore, not really.

Meanwhile, everyone has a job to do.

Document PRJS000020100605dv4m022p4




Abreast of the Market
 Sell-Off in Market Leaders Sends U.S. Stocks Lower 

 By Robert O'Brien 
Dow Jones Newswires
487 words
20 April 1999
The Asian Wall Street Journal
AWSJ
21
English
(c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 NEW YORK -- The sell-off in market-leading growth names reached an alarming pitch sending the Dow Jones Industrial Average down 53.36 points to close at 10440.53. 

 Shares of General Electric closed 7 7/16 lower at 103 13/16. Wal-Mart Stores fell 5 5/16 to 89 11/16 on the eve of the company's plans to split its stock, which traded as high at 106 13/16 as recently as Tuesday. 

 America Online, the prestige name of the Internet sector, declined 28 13/16 to 113 1/2 on the New York Stock Exchange. Yahoo! dropped 26 1/4 to 162 15/16 on Nasdaq Stock Exchange. Microsoft fell 5 9/16 to 81 1/16. 

 "This was a thorough, thorough trip to the woodshed," said Arthur Hogan, chief market strategist at Jefferies. 

 But at least the session hewed to a certain logic. The industrial average saw a slew of its component issues give up big chunks of ground, and it did not end higher or set a record -- as it had last week, when it finished with new highs in all five sessions, despite the tremors in GE, Wal-Mart and other issues. 

 "The declines in the one-time winners are just too much to ignore right here," said John Roque, senior market analyst at Arnhold and S., Beleichroeder. 

 The industrial average got some measure of support from last week's bright spots -- Alcoa, for example, gained 2 5/16 to 55, while Eastman Kodak gained 2 3/8 to 75 3/8. 

 The technical conditions looked considerably more cheery than the averages would suggest. Advancing issues on the Big Board outpaced decliners, 1,923 to 1,193. Share volume reached a high for the year at 1.2 billion shares, beating Friday's total of 1.0 billion. 

 The volume represented the second-biggest total ever on the New York Stock Exchange, trailing the biggest, when 2.05 billion shares changed hands on Sept. 1 of last year. 

 The Nasdaq Composite Index also came close to a record, though a dubious one. The index posted its second-worst single-session point decline, dropping 138.19 points, or 5.5%, to end at 2345.85 -- the seventh-worst sell-off, on a percentage basis. 

 The declines came in the technology sector, where shares of Sun Microsystems lost 4 7/16 to 50 1/2, Cisco Systems declined 5 11/16 to 100, and Dell Computer dropped 2 13/16 to 35 7/16. 

 The moves came without the usual lightning rod of an earnings warning or a profit shortfall. Market watchers said that the recent worries set off by the likes of Dell Computer and Advanced Micro Devices have created some uncertainty about the earnings visibility in the sector. 

Document awsj000020010825dv4k004ww




 N.Y. Late Market Comment -3: Nasdaq Off 5.5%; S&P Off 2.2% 

408 words
19 April 1999
22:04
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 The volume represented the second-biggest total ever on the NYSE, trailing the biggest, when 2.05 billion shares changed hands on Sept. 1 of last year. 

 The Nasdaq Composite Index also came close to a record, though a dubious one. The index posted its second-worst single-session point decline, dropping 138.19 to end at 2345.85. The percentage decline of 5.52% represented the seventh-worst selloff, on a percentage basis, ever. 

 The gut-wrenching declines came in the technology sector, where shares of Sun Microsystems lost 4 7/16 to 50 1/2, Cisco Systems declined 5 11/16 to 100, and Dell Computer dropped 2 13/16 to 35 7/16, all on Nasdaq. 

 The moves came without the usual lightning rod of an earnings warning or a profit shortfall. Market watchers said that the recent worries set off by the likes of Dell Computer and Advanced Micro Devices have created some uncertainty about the earnings visibility in the sector. 

 SoundView Technology Group, an investment boutique specializing in high-technology, told clients Monday that results of its survey showed that preparations for the Year 2000 on the part of corporate America are likely to slow sales of computer and computer products more dramatically than most technology concerns have grasped, or acknowledged. 

 "It creates a risk in the tech sector that doesn't exist elsewhere in the market," said Arnold Berman, managing director at Soundview Technology Group. Fundamentally, the issue is little more than a blip, Berman said, because the spending that is put off will surface in the first half of next year. 

 "But it's a blip that has not been factored in for a lot of technology companies this year," Berman said. 

 Regardless of the rationale, once the selling in the technology sector got underway, the momentum proved tremendous. 

 The real damage was inflicted on the Internet issues that had run up so dramatically up until last week. Shares of RealNetworks lost 41 7/8 to 128 5/8. DoubleClick dropped 23 1/16 to 104, 60 points off last Tuesday's high. CMGI fell 46 7/8 to 214. All three trade on Nasdaq. 

 Meanwhile, the Standard & Poor's 500 Stock Index lost 29.52, or 2.23%, to end at 1289.48. 

 (MORE) DOW JONES NEWS  04-19-99 

 05:04 PM 

Document dj00000020010826dv4j02k6n


 News 
 Compaq: no focus, no strategy and now no leader 

 Jo Pettitt 
381 words
19 April 1999
Newswire (VNU)
VNUN
English
Copyright (c) 1999 VNU Business Publications Ltd.; Source: World Reporter (TM)

 Eckhard Pfeiffer may have lost his job this weekend, but Compaq's problems really began way back in January last year when it announced the acquisition of Digital, analysts said today. The company's shock announcement yesterday that chief executive officer, Eckhard Pfeiffer and his chief financial officer, Earl Mason, had resigned, was the culmination of what has been a year long downhill struggle for Compaq. Pfeiffer's departure was almost certainly forced after he and Mason met the Board of Directors on Saturday. It followsonly 10 days after the company issued a profit warning for its first quarter, citing a slowdown in PC sales combined with competitive pricing pressures. But there may be more to it, not least the fact that the company faces a barrage of class action lawsuits. These accuse it of issuing misleading statements regarding PC sales to artificially inflate its stock price, during which time many senior executives sold stock. 

  (<A HREF="javascript:externalLink('http://webserv.vnunet.com/www_user/plsql/ pkg_vnu_news.right_frame?p_story=79941');">see Newswire 26 March</A>) Peter Lemon, senior research manager at IDC, commented: "It really all started with the Digital acquisition. The company has repeatedly told us that the integration of the two companies has gone really well and that it is almost completed, but it's clearly not." Andy Butler, research director at Gartner Group, said Compaq's aggressive growth strategy and target of being a $50 billion company by the end of 2000 was damagedby the Digital takeover. "We were convinced that the Digital acquisition was going to make a plateau period inevitable. The task of getting rid ofunwanted products and even people was going to offset all the growth of the original Compaq company. Pfeiffer's departure is the penalty Compaq must pay tothe financial analysts for that," he said. Analysts agreed that Compaq needed to find an answer to its lack of leader and of strategy very fast. For the full reaction to Pfeiffer's departure, <A HREF="javascript:externalLink('http://webserv.vnunet.com/www_user/plsql/ pkg_vnu_news.right_frame?p_story=82048');">see today's analysis</A>. To comment on this story, email newswire@vnu.co.uk 

Document vnun000020010830dv4j002s5




 Newspaper Says IBM Germany Sees Strong Growth In Computer Industry 

217 words
18 April 1999
15:25
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 FRANKFURT -(Dow Jones)- The chairman of International Business Machines Deutschland, a subsidiary of IBM Corp., told a German Sunday newspaper that he sees continued strong growth in the international computer industry, despite Compaq Computer Corp.'s recent profitwarning. 

 The IBM (IBM) subsidiary couldn't be reached to confirm the contents of the interview. 

 Compaq's (CPQ) recent profit warning doesn't signal a crisis in the industry, said Erwin Staudt, chairman of IBM Deutschland. 

 Compaq recently said it would miss analysts' first-quarter earnings projections by more than half, coming in around 15 cents a share. Analysts surveyed by First Call had a mean estimate for Compaq to post earnings of 32 cents a share in the quarter. 

 Staudt sees annual growth of 15% to 20% in the international computer industry, with even stronger growth rates in software and computer services, he told Welt am Sonntag. 

 "We believe that the computer industry in the exploding area of e-commerce alone, or the business development of customers via the Internet, will generate around $600 billion in the year 2002," he said. 

 About one-third of this will come from software and hardware, and services, he said. 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020329dv4i029z5




 Business/Financial Desk; Section C 
 BUSINESS DIGEST 

607 words
17 April 1999
The New York Times
NYTF
Page 1, Column 1
English
(c) 1999 New York Times Company

 Dow Jones Industrials Rise To Fifth Consecutive High 

 The Dow Jones industrial average rose to a fifth consecutive record as Eastman Kodak soared on unexpectedly strong earnings. But computer stocks extended their weeklong slide, leaving major indexes mixed. 

 The Dow gained 31.17 points, to 10,493.89. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 3.86 points, to 1,319, and the Nasdaq composite index slumped 37.73 points, or 1.5 percent, to 2,484.04. [Page C3.] 

 Kodak Earnings and Sales Increase 

 First-quarter profits at Eastman Kodak, excluding one-time charges, rose 9.3 percent, to $259 million, or 80 cents a diluted share. Sales rose 6.5 percent, to $3.1 billion. The news sent shares of Kodak soaring $6.4375, or 9.67 percent, to $73. [C2.] 

 Output Increased Slightly in March 

 Output at the nation's factories, mines and utilities rose one-tenth of 1 percent in March despite a decline in production at automobile plants. In a separate report, the Commerce Department said housing construction fell 1.3 percent in March, dropping to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.77 million units. [C3.] 

 I.R.S. Dismissal Halted by Senator 

 As millions of Americans were filing their income tax returns Thursday, the Houston office of the Internal Revenue Service was taking steps to dismiss an agent who blew the whistle about I.R.S. abuses. The action was halted when the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee protested to the tax commissioner, Charles O. Rossotti. [A1.] 

 Caterpillar Net Surpasses Revisions 

 Caterpillar, which had sounded an earnings warning last month, posted a decline in quarterly profit that was smaller than analysts' latest forecasts. Earnings fell 52 percent, to $205 million, or 57 cents a share. The per-share figure was higher than the 42 cents that analysts had been expecting since Caterpillar had warned on March 12 that earnings in the quarter would fall as much as 50 percent. [C4.] 

 Europeans Rule Out Banana Appeal 

 The European Union does not plan to appeal a World Trade Organization ruling that its banana imports policy illegally hurts United States-based growers, Sir Leon Brittan, the European Union's Trade Commissioner, said. He added that there was not enough time to prevent Washington from seeking authority to impose retaliatory tariffs. [C2.] 

 Estimated Loss at Nissan Grows 

 Yoshikazu Hanawa, the president of Nissan Motor, reported a revised estimate of fiscal year losses at the auto maker that were more than three times as bad as the company had anticipated. Nissan also eliminated the shareholder dividend for the first time since it became a publicly traded company a half-century ago. [C2.] 

 Ex-Ford Chief Earned $73 Million 

 Alex Trotman, the former chairman and chief executive of Ford Motor, received more than $73 million in his last year at the auto maker, an S.E.C. filing disclosed. [C4.] 

 British Retailers in Big Merger 

 Kingfisher, Britain's sixth-largest retailer, will buy the supermarket chain Asda Group for $9.6 billion in stock, creating Britain's biggest retailer. [C2.] 

 Albemarle Increases Bid for Albright 

 Albemarle increased its friendly bid for Albright & Wilson, the maker of phosphates for detergents, to $810 million from $657 million, topping a bid from Rhodia. [C3.] 

 Options Tables Unavailable 

 The stock options table and the index options table were not available for this edition because of computer problems at The Associated Press. 

 Photo Chart: ''YESTERDAY'' Dow Industrials -- 10,493.89 up 31.17 30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.57% up 0.05 The Dollar -- 117.85 yen down 0.98 

Document nytf000020010828dv4h00l6q




BUSINESS
U.S. EARNINGS 

696 words
15 April 1999
The Orange County Register
OCR
English
© 1999 Orange County Register.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.  All rights reserved.  

Semiconductor maker AMD says first quarter wasn't a good one 

Advanced Micro Devices Inc.'s first-quarter loss more than doubled as the computer chip maker struggled with previously disclosed production problems. The loss of $128.4 million was smaller than expected, however, as AMD joined Intel Corp. and Motorola Corp. as the third semiconductor producer in two days to beat Wall Street forecasts. 

In the first quarter of 1998, AMD lost $62.7 million. Revenue for the just-ended quarter totaled $631.6 million, an increase of 17 percent from year-ago levels, but down 20 percent from the final three months of last year. 

In early March, AMD warned that it would suffer a significant first-quarter loss because production problems with its most popular microprocessor, the AMD-K6, would crimp sales. 

"The best thing that can be said about the first quarter is that it's over," said W.J. Sanders III, chairman and chief executive officer of AMD, asserting that production yields _ the percentage of chips without flaws _ improved in March. 

AMD's stock slipped 25 cents per share, to $14.75, in advance of the report, which was released after the close of Wednesday's trading on the New York Stock Exchange. 

On Tuesday, rival chip makers Intel and Motorola both topped analyst expectations for their quarterly earnings reports. 

Those results eased some jitters after Compaq Computer Corp.'s last-minute warning Friday that its first-quarter profit would amount to just half of what most Wall Street analysts were forecasting. 

J.P. Morgan &Co., regularly cited as vulnerable to a takeover after successive quarters of weak profits, posted stellar first-quarter earnings Wednesday, kicking off a year in which management says the bank will finally prove its mettle. 

Morgan, the nation's fifth-largest bank and heir to a blue-chip investment banking legacy now threatened by larger rivals, said earnings in the quarter jumped 64 percent, to $600 million, compared with $366 million in the quarter a year earlier. Revenue rose 25 percent, to $2.5 billion. 

Fleet Financial Corp. reported a 36 percent jump in first-quarter profits, beating expectations, as the bank's acquisitions of the Quick &Reilly brokerage and the credit card businesses of Advanta and Sanwa Credit started paying off. 

Fleet, which is continuing its buying spree with a planned takeover of BankBoston, earned $438 million in the January-March period, compared with $323 million in the first quarter of last year. Revenue grew 23 percent to $2 billion from $1.63 billion. 

Hughes Electronics Corp. reported a 25 percent drop in first-quarter earnings due to lower interest income and higher depreciation costs. 

The satellite and telecommunications company reported Wednesday that, excluding one-time items, it earned $40.1 million, down from $53.7 million during the first quarter of 1998. 

One-time items in the first quarter included a $94.3 million after-tax gain related to settlement of a patent infringement case and a $56.1 million after-tax charge related to the termination of a $450 million Asia-Pacific Mobile Telecommunications contract. 

In the infringement case, Hughes sued the federal government, alleging it used pioneering Hughes technology to position satellites in orbit. 

When the one-time items are included, Hughes had earnings of $78.3 million, compared with $44.5 million for the same period a year ago. 

Revenue for the period rose 12.5 percent to $1.45 billion, compared with $1.3 billion for the same period last year. Hughes said subscriber growth in its DirecTV business accounted for the revenue growth. 

Time Warner Inc. bounced back from a loss a year ago to post a net profit of $138 million in the first quarter. The improved results reflected strong growth across the company's media holdings and a one-time gain from ending a video distribution agreement. 

Time Warner last year had a net loss of $62 million in the same period, when its earnings were dragged down by slumping music sales. 

Revenue rose 2.4 percent to $6.20 billion from $6.05 billion. 

From staff and news-service reports  

Document ocr0000020010828dv4f00ejn


 News 
 Software AG's biggest distributor accused of insider trading 

 Janice McGinn 
453 words
15 April 1999
Newswire (VNU)
VNUN
English
Copyright (c) 1999 VNU Business Publications Ltd.; Source: World Reporter (TM)

 Software AG Systems, Software AG's biggest distributor worldwide and formerly wholly-owned by the German giant, has been accused in the US of insider trading and artificially boosting revenue streams. Software AG Systems said the complaint is without merit and it plans to contest it vigorously. When the Reston, Virginia company, in which Software AG retains 10 per cent holding, warnedon 5 April that revenue and profit would fall short of analysts' expectations, it's stock plummeted by 29 per cent. Two class actions filed subsequently allege that the officers of Software AG Systems used insider information that the stock price was artificially maintained, to sell their stock for profits of $195 million. An SEC filing on 4 March showed that Derek Brigden, vice president and chief information officer, disposed of 15,000 shares in February at between $13.63 and $15.13 each. After the profit warning share price tumbled 29 percent into single figures. 

  Software AG in Germany plans to float on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange in a few weeks time, expected to be one of the largest ever European software floats, and Ken Jacobson, UK chief executive, said the distributor's troubles won't affect the flotation. The American company has exclusive distributorship status in North and Latin America, Japan and Israel. Jacobson said: "We don't believe this problem will destabilise the company because it's very solid and strong with a loyal customer base." Software AG sold its remaining 80 per cent stockholding for $150 million during the 1997 management buyout, but it retained the 10 per cent shareholding in the company, and senior management in Germany and the US kept another 10 per cent. Dr Erwin Konigs, chief executive of Software AG, remains a director of the company. Software AG Systems saw 1998's revenue increase by 37 per cent to $249 million from $181.2 million in 1997, and net income rose by 117 percent to $27.7 million or $0.87 per share compared to $12.8 million or $0.48 per share in 1997. It was the fourth consecutive year that net income was doubled. The company is due to report quarterly results on 20 April, but it warned last week that expected revenue for the first quarter would dip to $53 million from $55.8 million last year, with expected net income between $5.1 million and $5.7 million, $0.16 to $0.18 per share. Last year's net was $5.4 million, and analysts' estimates for the first quarter of 1999 were $0.21 per share. To comment on this story, email newswire@vnu.co.uk 

Document vnun000020010830dv4f002po




GET OUT
SEBADOH ONCE AGAIN IS ROUGH AND READY  

By Alan Sculley Special To The Post-Dispatch  
577 words
15 April 1999
St. Louis Post-Dispatch
SLMO
EDITION: FIVE STAR LIFT
PAGE: 24
English
Copyright 1999, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.  

Sebadoh's early releases were stylistically erratic and often emphasized noisy compositions over quieter pop-oriented material. But with the albums "Bakesale" (1994) and "Harmacy" (1996), the band shifted to a smoother, more accessible pop sound.  

The shift, however, wasn't universally applauded. There were fans who wanted to see Sebadoh return to the more jagged and unpredictable sound of its earlier efforts. If the trio's latest CD, "The Sebadoh," is any indication, they may have gotten their wish.  

At least, that's how it seems to Lou Barlow, the founder and chief songwriter for Sebadoh (as well as the band Folk Implosion), who has become one of underground pop's most respected songwriters. "To me, it almost sounds like more of a continuation of 'Bubble and Scrape' than 'Harmacy'," Barlow says, comparing the new CD to the band's 1992 album.  

Barlow isn't sure all the fans are hearing the same qualities in "The Sebadoh" that he hears. "It's split like 50-50," Barlow says. "Some people say, 'So, this is a very polished record. Why is it so produced?' And then others say, 'God, it's really rough and raw.' It's so weird. I don't get it. Some people will feel 'Harmacy' was much rougher than this one. What the hell are they hearing? Of course, in a way, it is really encouraging, because it basically means that the record is alive."  

Confusion was a common response to the early Sebadoh, as if the members of the band delighted in catching their fans off balance. One reason for the response was that the songwriting was split between the three original members. Barlow was known for composing tuneful pop songs with sensitive, highly confessional lyrics; bassist/guitarist Jason Lowenstein wrote in a more youthful but still catchy punk style; and drummer Eric Gaffney was the group's loose cannon, whose sometimes dissonant, confrontational material seemed to match his mercurial personality.  

Gaffney quit the band in 1993, leaving Barlow and Lowenstein to handle the writing chores. When drummer Bob Fay came on board, Sebadoh's music grew more pop oriented and polished.  

Still, Barlow liked some of the rough edges and the rather random qualities of the original line-up. Those qualities helped give Sebadoh character and a distinct personality. In becoming a bit more polished, Barlow began to feel as if some of the charm had slipped through the band's fingers. Which probably explains the louder, more gnarly sound of "The Sebadoh." There are still songs with sharp pop hooks, such as "It's All You," "Flame" and "Love Is Stronger," but even these have rough edges. As a result, the new album may disappoint those who were drawn to the pure pop delights of "Harmacy" and "Bakesale."  

Barlow sensed that it was important to recapture some of the idiosyncrasies. "Eric (Gaffney) did these totally nutty songs that became better and better as the years passed," Barlow says. "That kind of stuff really captured (a desirable) jaggedness. With 'Harmacy,' I was just hearing a record in which it seemed as if we were afraid of grabbing the moment."  

if you go...  

What: Sebadoh with Verbena  

When: 8:30 p.m., Saturday  

Where: Karma, 1624 Delmar Boulevard  

How much: $10  

Info: 621-8057  

PHOTO | PHOTO - Sebadoh: Lou Barlow (left), Jason Loewenstein and Bob Fay  

Document SLMO000020040605dv4f00a4v




World Stock Markets
 Mexico's IPC Index Closes Near Its Record High; Asian Markets Take Cue From Strong U.S. Rally 

 By Craig Karmin 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
1,433 words
14 April 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
C16
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 Mexico's benchmark index surged above record levels yesterday before closing down slightly, but still within striking distance of the mark. 

 In Asia, most markets took their cue from Monday's strong rally in the U.S. and snapped back after a one-day sell-off. European markets also finished mostly higher. The gains were led by London's FTSE-100 index, which added 1.1% to close at a record high of 6513.1 points. 

 Overall, the Dow Jones World Stock Index added 0.26 to 217.80. Excluding the U.S., the index rose 1.46, or 0.94%, to 156.11. 

 Mexico's IPC index closed down 6.97 points, or 0.1%, at 5296.31. At one point Tuesday, the IPC climbed as high as 5388.41, surpassing its highest final tally of 5369.48 on Oct. 21, 1997. The IPC is ahead 33.8% year-to-date. 

 The rally is all the more impressive because, unlike Brazil and many other emerging markets, Mexico's peso has appreciated against the dollar in 1999. Its 10% rise compared with the U.S. currency means the IPC has soared nearly 40% this year in dollar terms. 

 The market's recent gains reflect several positive external factors: higher oil prices, better-than-expected access to the international bond markets, and, perhaps most of all, the unabated economic expansion of the U.S., which counts Mexico as its third-largest trading partner. 

 But investors also are quick to credit Mexico with undergoing the sort of painful but ultimately rewarding fiscal policy moves fund managers would like to see adopted throughout the globe. 

 The government, for example, cut the budget three times in 1998 to offset the decline in oil prices and the economy still grew 4.8% last year. Forecasts this year suggest 3% growth. 

 "Not only are they leading the way, but they are reaping the benefits from it," said Andrew Cummins, a portfolio manager for Explorador Capital Management LLC, a San Francisco hedge fund focusing on Latin America. "It's good to see the right actions appropriately rewarded." 

 Just as crucially, fund managers hail Mexico's open dialogue with money managers and creditors as an example that should be replicated throughout all emerging markets. 

 "They've really increased their transparency and outreach to investors, and that's the path most other countries need to follow," Mr. Cummins added. 

 The recent rally in Mexican stocks has also benefited from a rapid decline in interest rates this year: The benchmark short-term rate, known as Cetes, is at 20.5%, down from 32.7% in mid-January, when Brazil devalued the real. 

 Even so, economists expect inflation in Mexico to taper off. At the end of 1998, most projections called for a 1999 inflation rate of 18%, according to Juan Pablo Chavez, Latin American economist for I.D.E.A., an international consulting firm. Most forecasts expect 15% inflation in 1999, and the government is targeting 13%. 

 Not surprisingly then, many analysts believe the recent rally will continue. David Chon, Latin American strategist for Bear Stearns, notes that the IPC still is about 30% lower in dollar terms than it was in 1997. He also predicts that by year end the aggregate earnings of all Mexican companies in dollar terms will equal aggregate corporate earnings in 1997. 

 "That means fundamental factors could drive this market to levels last seen in 1997," Mr. Chon said. "My guess is that there's another 40% upside in dollar terms from today's level." 

 Mr. Cummins of Explorador Capital isn't so sure. He says he remains long-term bullish on Mexico, but is worried about how rapidly interest rates have fallen this year. 

 "The downward cycle in rates is sustainable but probably a little ahead of itself," he said. "That could be a catalyst for a short-term correction." 

 He also is keeping an eye out for how Mexico spends the extra revenues generated by the recent global increase in oil prices. The government gets roughly one-third of its income from oil sales, and Mr. Cummins said he would like to see those proceeds go toward debt reduction or a "rainy-day account to be used to offset fluctuations in a volatile commodity." 

 His fear is that, with a presidential election next year, politicians might engage in the sort of wasteful government spending Mexico recently has managed to avoid. 

 In TOKYO, the Nikkei 225-stock index rebounded from Monday's downturn to close up 207.76, or 1.26%, at 16715.16. Traders said investors miscalculated the effect of Compaq Computer's profit warning on the U.S. market, which rallied rather than leading all global markets down. Real-estate shares were the biggest gainers, supported by expectations that the Bank of Japan's policy of maintaining overnight interest rates at virtually zero will help boost real-estate prices. Sumitomo Realty & Development jumped 8% to 542 yen, while Mitsui Fudosan was up 3.7% to 1,133 yen. 

 Tokyo closed Wednesday's morning session down 1.4%. 

 In HONG KONG Tuesday, the Hang Seng Index gained 154.95, or 1.3%, to close at 11899.69, erasing most of the previous session's losses. The close was just below Friday's, when the index hit its highest level since the Asian financial crisis intensified for Hong Kong in late October 1997. SmarTone shares gained 3.5% to 25.10 Hong Kong dollars after it reached an agreement with Yahoo!, which will provide content for SmarTone's new Internet service. 

 In SINGAPORE, the Straits Times Index rose 18.70, or 1.1%, to 1679.98, also reaching its highest level in 1 1/2 years. Shares of contract manufacturer Venture Manufacturing rose 30 cents to 8.85 Singapore dollars, while United Overseas Bank foreign shares slid 30 cents to S$12.20. 

 In TAIPEI, the Weighted Price Index jumped 95.45, or 1.3%, to close at a 20-week high of 7337.85. Electronics stocks rallied, led by Advanced Semiconductor Engineering's gain of five New Taiwan dollars to NT$90.5. Acer's shares also were up NT$1 to NT$52.5. 

 In LONDON, the FTSE-100 index gained 71.90, or 1.1%, to a record 6513.10. Bank Barclays closed up 46 pence at 19.19. Other financial companies followed Barclays's lead with Lloyds TSB up 39.5 pence at 10.60, Royal Bank of Scotland 62 pence higher at 14.05, and Abbey National up 39 pence at 13.80. 

 In FRANKFURT, the Xetra DAX index rose 57.67 , or 1.1%, at 5225.22 as investors looked to gains on Wall Street rather than the brewing conflict in Yugoslavia. DaimlerChrysler rose on rumors that it might rejoin the S&P 500. The shares closed up 3.19 euros at 91.95 euros. Volkswagen also gained, ending 2.5% higher at 63.64 euros. 

 In PARIS, the CAC-40 index rose 12.41, or 0.3%, to close at 4367.41 points. The index continues to inch its way toward the 4404.94-point record it set in July. The shares of Banque Nationale de Paris, Societe Generale and Paribas all fell as investors began to doubt the chances of a sweetened bid by SocGen for Paribas. SocGen wants to convince shareholders that its friendly plan to merge with Paribas is more attractive than BNP's unsolicited three-bank alliance. BNP dropped 1.0% to 76.6 euros, while SocGen fell 1.5% to 167.4 euros. Paribas slid 0.2% to 98.6 euros. 


---
                 Morgan Stanley Indexes
                 Morgan Stanley Indexes
                                               % FROM
               April 12        April 9         12/31/98
U.S. .........  1333.0         1321.7          +11.4
Britain ......  1902.7         1910.7          + 9.2
Canada ........  833.2          827.9          +11.7
Japan .........  846.8          866.0          +21.7
France .......  1369.6         1373.4          + 9.5
Germany .......  687.9          683.6          + 4.3
Hong Kong ....  6654.0         6750.9          +12.0
Switzerland ...  921.2          925.8          + 3.3
Australia .....  611.5          616.1          + 6.9
World Index ..  1240.1         1235.4          + 7.8
EAFE MSCI-p ..  1458.1         1460.9          + 3.8
  As calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International Perspective,
Geneva. Each index, calculated in local currencies, is based on the
close of 1969 equaling 100.


Document j000000020010828dv4e00a2f




Abreast of the Market
 Dow Jones Industrials Rise To Another Record Close 

 By Robert O'Brien 
Dow Jones Newswires
428 words
14 April 1999
The Asian Wall Street Journal
AWSJ
19
English
(c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 NEW YORK -- The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose to another record, the highlight of a session that saw the dramatic turnaround in the fortunes of cyclical and technology stocks intensify. 

 On one hand, International Paper shares gained 2 1/4 to 48 5/8 -- the highest the stock has closed since October. The company represents exactly the sort of relatively inexpensive, economically sensitive, smokestack business that has seen a remarkable reversal in its profile on Wall Street. 

 After more than a year of suffering with the downturn in the global economy, a host of blue-chip cyclical stocks has instilled confidence in the ability to increase earnings, as International Paper, which topped first-quarter forecasts with Tuesday's results by a wide margin, exemplified. 

 Richard Babson, chairman and president of Babson-United Investment Advisors, said the European Central Bank's decision to cut interest rates last week showed that "with Europe doing what it can to boost economic demand on the Continent, the earnings prospects may be better than anticipated for U.S. companies." 

 Buoyed by gains in some of those cyclical stocks -- as well as strong contributions from bellwethers such as General Motors, which saw its shares climb 2 5/16 to 90 7/16, and American Express, which rose 3 1/8 to 138 1/2 -- the Dow Jones industrials gained 55.5 points to close at a record 10395.01. 

 The technical underpinnings of the market started relatively strongly, but deteriorated as the session wore on, and while breadth was positive and volume picked up a little from Monday, the final picture the technicals portrayed was mixed. 

 Advancing issues outnumbered decliners on the New York Stock Exchange, 1,547 to 1,474, while 544 issues ended unchanged. Volume on the Big Board edged upward to 808 million shares, compared with Monday's 806.8 million shares. 

 The New York Stock Exchange Composite Index fell 10.15 points to 631.67, with the average per-share price declining 11 cents. 

 While earnings prospects appear to have brightened among some of the cyclical groups that have been lagging behind the recent bull market in equities, the former leaders in the technology sector found themselves stung by more earnings disappointments. 

 The group continued to reel from Compaq Computer's warning Friday that its first-quarter profit wouldn't live up to -- or even come close -- to analysts' objectives. Shares of Compaq Computer fell 1/4 to 23 13/16. 

Document awsj000020010825dv4e003ye




 BUSINESS 
 ANGRY INVESTORS RALLY TO INCREASE COMPAQ WOES SHARES IN THE PERSONAL-COMPUTER COMPANY TUMBLED ALMOST $7 AFTER AN EARNINGS WARNING SURPRISED INVESTORS. 

 Bloomberg News Service 
309 words
13 April 1999
Orlando Sentinel
ORSE
METRO
B5
English
Copyright (c) 1999 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved.

 HOUSTON - Compaq Computer Corp., the world's biggest personal- computer maker, surprised investors with a profit warning that sent its shares skidding 22 percent. 

 Investors might have seen it coming. Compaq issued a similar warning a year ago and another in early 1991. Company officials even hinted at weak sales earlier this year in discussions with analysts. 

 Now, analysts and investors are angry with Chief Executive Officer Eckhard Pfeiffer and his minions, saying they should have disclosed the bad news much earlier. 

 Some may have gotten a false sense of security about owning Compaq shares after the first quarter ended without a warning from the company. 

 "People don't have any confidence at all in {Compaq's) earnings projections or their analysis of industry conditions," said portfolio manager Duane Eatherly of Banc One Investment Advisors in Columbus, Ohio, which owns about 1 million Compaq shares. 

 Such disdain may help explain why investors lopped $11.9 billion off Compaq's market value Monday, leaving it at $40.9 billion. Shares of the Houston-based company tumbled $6.875 to $24.063, the second- largest decline in percentage terms for Compaq ever. The stock is down 42.7 percent this year. 

 "At some point, people will clamor for changes - either better disclosure or big changes in the management suite," Eatherly said. 

 Compaq late Friday said it expects first-quarter earnings of 15 cents a share because of PC price cuts. 

 Analysts had expected 31 cents, according to First Call Corp. 

 At least eight analysts cut their ratings Monday on Compaq. 

 Wall Street quickly decided that Compaq's weak results had a lot more to do with Compaq itself than the industry or the overall economy. 

Document orse000020010829dv4d00iby




 Intel -3: Co. Says 2Q Outlook Fits Seasonal Trends >INTC 

331 words
14 April 1999
00:19
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Intel's earnings report comes after several days of conflicting information from leading PC companies. The world's top PC maker, Compaq Computer Corp. (CPQ), issued a profit warning Friday and blamed a weak industry environment for its shortfall. But Dell Computer Corp. (DELL) and Hewlett-Packard Co. (HWP) have both said the PC business is fine. 

 Speaking in a conference call, Intel vice president Paul Otellini didn't report industry-wide weakness, saying instead that the first quarter was "slightly better" than the seasonal norm. 

 "Compaq is a large (Intel) customer but not the entire market," he said. 

 But he said Intel is factoring Compaq's problems into its business outlook for the rest of the year. 

 When an analyst questioned Otellini about the company's cautious second-quarter outlook, he said the PC market is usually slower in the June quarter. 

 "If you look at the pattern in the second quarter, (the PC market) has been flat to down seasonally for a number of years," Otellini said. 

 As Wall Street has worried about the state of the PC market, some analysts have worried about a relapse of the inventory build-ups that plagued the industry in 1998. But Otellini said there has been no sign of inventory buildups. 

 Intel vowed in its last conference call to regain market share lost to Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) in the U.S. retail market, where cheap PCs are the rage. After slashing prices on its economy-line Celeron chips, Ottelini said Intel increasing its share in this market. 

 "We are very pleased with our progress at the low end," he said in the conference call. 

 But he said some corporate customers are buying Celeron-based chips, too. Intel probably doesn't want this to become a trend, since the company relies on corporate customers to buy more expensive machines than consumers. 

 (MORE) DOW JONES NEWS  04-13-99 

 07:19 PM 

Document dj00000020010826dv4d02gzn




 H-P CEO -2: PCs Will Continue To Be Viable Business >HWP 

 By Christopher Grimes 
259 words
13 April 1999
15:07
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Hewlett-Packard Co. (HWP) is on track to deliver world-wide double-digit personal-computer unit sales growth in 1999, with the second half of the year providing most of the strength, Chairman and Chief Executive Lewis Platt said. 

 Platt, here to ring the opening bell at the New York Stock Exchange and tout new server products, told reporters Tuesday his company will rebound after delivering several quarters marked by sluggish sales growth. Hewlett-Packard is seeing a recovery in Asia, he said, which should play a role in boosting sales. 

 "Every month, we're seeing sequential order growth in Asia," he said. 

 A day after rival Compaq Computer Corp.'s (CPQ) shares fell 22% on a profit warning, Platt said H-P's personal-computer sales are "healthy, growing and profitable." 

 He also took issue with International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) Chairman and Chief Executive Louis V. Gerstner's famous declaration that the "PC era is over." 

 "Maybe for them" it is, Platt said, in a reference to IBM's recent revelation that it lost almost $1 billion in its PC business in 1998. "I've heard Lou say that, and frankly I don't agree." 

 He said he sees PC sales remaining strong for "several more years." Eventually, he added, more specialized computer devices could take over that market. 


(Corrected 5:16 PM)
   - Christopher Grimes; 201-938-5253



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  04-13-99



10:07 AM


Document dj00000020010826dv4d02dc8




 U.S. Shares In London Flat; Mkt Cautious Ahead Of Key Data 

312 words
13 April 1999
13:15
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 LONDON (Dow Jones)--U.S. shares are flat in London-based trading Tuesday, ahead of key official data this session. 

 A U.S. equities trader said he expects the Dow Jones Industrial Average to open unchanged later in the session. 

 "We had a great late run on Wall Street yesterday (Monday) and now it's time for a breather and consolidation," said the trader. "With inflation data due this session, it's the opportune time to be cautious," he added. 

 U.S. Consumer Price Index for March is due at 1230 GMT, and the Dow Jones Newswires median estimate is a rise of 0.3%, while March retail sales are expected to be up 0.5% on a year ago. At 1300 GMT, the Atlanta Federal Manufacturing index is due, and may give further direction to the market if the CPI data comes in as-expected. 

 The DJIA rose 165.67 points to 10,339.51 Monday and set a new record-high close. 

 Following Compaq Computer's first quarter profit warning issued Friday, U.S. technology stocks contributed to a faltering start for the overall U.S. market. But late Monday in New York some of those U.S. technology stocks pared losses, and internet stocks weathered the downside. 

 Even with computer behemoth International Business Machines falling in Compaq's wake Monday, the DJIA manage to rise strongly, thanks to gains in perennially underperforming paper and industrial stocks. 

 At 1200 GMT, the S&P 500 March futures contract was down 3.00 at 1369.00 and U.S. 30-year treasury bonds were down 5/32 at 96 28/32 with a yield of 5.46%. 

 -By George Matlock; 44-171-832-9587; George.Matlock@dowjones.com 

 (END) DOW JONES NEWS  04-13-99 

 08:15 AM 

Document dj00000020010826dv4d026gk




Currency Trading
 Dollar Declines Against Euro, Yen On Stock Worries 

 By Stephanie Hoo 
Dow Jones Newswires
383 words
13 April 1999
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
26
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 NEW YORK -- The dollar slipped against the yen and the euro, falling in early trading on fears U.S. stocks would tumble and then failing to recover much ground when those fears proved overblown. 

 Late Monday in New York, the dollar was trading at 120.25 yen, down from 120.88 yen late Friday. The euro was at $1.0812, up from $1.0795 Friday; sterling was at $1.6135, above $1.6080. 

 A profit warning from Compaq Computer Friday sent shivers through markets over the weekend, and currency players sold dollars heavily before the New York open Monday, especially against the yen. 

 Also, perceived weakness in American assets puts the ballooning U.S. trade deficit in high relief, weighing on the dollar. 

 The euro, while higher against the dollar Monday, continues to struggle even after the European Central Bank cut its refinancing rate last week. 

 "On a technical basis, the euro is trying to claw its way back up," said Susan Stearns, director of foreign exchange at the Bank of Montreal in New York. "In the wake of the rate cut, there's been steady interest to push up the euro, but that has been met with contravening interest to sell into rallies," she said. 

 The euro rose as high as $1.0879 Monday, failing to match last week's high of $1.0886. 

 Selling was led by shorter-term players, while the longer-term money has been more comfortable holding euro positions since the rate cut, Ms. Stearns said. 

 "Based on the price action over the past few days . . . the euro is building a base at these levels," said Jay Bryson, international economist at First Union National Bank in Charlotte, North Carolina. "If you look back to when the (U.S. Federal Reserve) cut rates in October, the dollar initially dropped, consolidated for two or three days, then started grinding higher," he said. 

 But others say the ECB rate cut merely highlights Europe's structural problems. "They still have to cut taxes and do something about the high unemployment," said John Cholakis, a dealer at Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank in New York who expects the euro will see $1.05 before it sees $1.10. 

Document wsje000020010830dv4d007cl




 U.S. stocks hit new highs on bargain hunting. 

 By Richard Chang 
566 words
13 April 1999
04:21
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, April 12 (Reuters) - Stocks surged to record highs on Monday, as investors snapped up bargains after a sell-off sparked by a profit warning from technology giant Compaq Computer Corp. 

 Bonds closed slightly higher and the dollar fell ahead of key inflation and retail sales data due Tuesday. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average ended up 165.67 points, or 1.63 percent, at 10,339.51, rebounding from a 77-point drop early in the day. 

 It was the fourth time in the past six sessions that the Dow set a record-high close. 

 In the broader market, advancing issues led declines 1,670 to 1,306 on active volume of 806.8 million on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Other major market measures set records as well. 

 The Nasdaq composite index ended up 5.77 points, or 0.22 percent, at 2,598.74, gaining despite some big drops in the technology group that had pushed the index down more than 2.38 percent early in the day. 

 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, a broader market gauge, gained 10.29 points, or 0.76 percent, to 1,358.64. 

 It was the fifth day in six sessions that the Nasdaq and the S&P set record-high closes. 

 "It's going to take more than a whack to kill this bull," said Trude Latimer, an independent stock broker in Charlottesville, Va. "No one believes when the market comes down that it's anything but a buying opportunity." 

 The whack to Wall Street's bull market came in the form of an announcement on Friday evening from Compaq, the world's largest personal computer maker, that its earnings will fall well below analysts' expectations. 

 Compaq's shares tumbled 6-points to 24-1/16. But the overall market wound up bouncing back as investors viewed the warning as a cause for concern about the PC industry, and not the overall market, analysts said. 

 "We're still at the early phase of the earnings period, and my suspicion is that 'hope springs eternal' still reigns," said Joseph Barthel, chief investment strategist at Fahnestock & Co. 

 "It's too early to assume the Compaq disappointment is an indicator of bad earnings across the board," he said. 

 Optimism about earnings was reflected in shares of financial services companies, which gained amid news that profits at securities firm Bear Stearns Cos. Inc. rose to a record $204 million in its fiscal third quarter. 

 Small capitalisation stocks, which have long trailed the overall market, rallied for the second straight session. The group's benchmark Russell 2000 index gained 6.46 points, or 1.59 percent, to 412.32. 

 The benchmark 30-year Treasury bond rose 6/32, or $1.875 on a $1,000 bond. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction to the price, fell to 5.45 percent from 5.46 percent late Friday. 

 The dollar late Monday stood at 120.27 yen, down from 120.87 yen on Friday. The euro rose to $1.0819 from $1.0795. 

 Overseas, London's FTSE 100 closed 31.6 points or 0.5 percent lower at 6,441.2. In Tokyo, the Nikkei 225 average closed down 2.07 percent or 348.23 points at 16,507.40. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4d036xf




 Pound lifted vs dlr, euro in Europe after BRC data. 

227 words
13 April 1999
08:13
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 0700 GMT - Sterling inches up in early Europe against the dollar and the euro, bolstered by strong British Retail Consortium's retail sales figures released overnight. 

 * The BRC's survey shows UK retail sales up 3.9 pct like-for-like in March vs +2.3 pct in Feb, but consortium cautioned data might be have been affected by seasonal factors. 

 * Pound at $1.6150/60, off a two-week peak of $1.6185 hit Monday but up from $1.6134/44 late in Europe on Monday. #2.0 pct higher from 1-1/2 year low of $1.5838 set last week. * Euro/sterling at 66.92/00 vs 67.18/20 late in Europe on Monday. Euro/sterling 1.4 pct up from lifetime lows. 

 * UK stock market set for a strong opening on the back of record performance by U.S. stocks. Dow Jones Industrial Average set fresh lifetime high despite earlier Compaq's profit warning. 

 * U.S. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright to meet Russian Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov in Oslo on Kosovo crisis. 

 * No major UK economic data on schedule, U.S. March consumer prices and retail sale due 1230 GMT, real earnings 1400 GMT. 

 ((Lisa Jucca, London newsroom 0171 542 6745, elisabetta.jucca@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4d036wn




 Emerging market debt mixed on low volume. 

361 words
13 April 1999
07:43
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, April 12 (Reuters) - Emerging market bond prices were mixed on Monday after initially opening lower on concerns that a profit warning by the world's top personal computer maker Compaq  would drive U.S. share prices sharply lower, traders said. 

 "Most of the focus has been on the U.S. stock market's response to the Compaq computer warnings," said one emerging market debt trader at a U.S. investment bank. 

 "The market opened down about one point from Friday's closing levels but some issues have since rebounded," he added. 

 The closely watched U.S. stock market rebounded at midday from an earlier market selloff sparked by Compaq's earnings warnings. At 1251 EDT, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 60.49 points or 0.59 percent. 

 Traders said emerging market debt prices also recouped some earlier losses as buyers stepped in at the lower levels. 


Among the Latin American credits, Argentine FRBs		 were 1/8 firmer at 87-7/8 bid and Brazilian C bonds		  were 1/8 better at 65-3/4 bid.



But some dealers noted supply pressures weighed on other Brazilian debt prices in anticipation of an eagerly awaited global bond issue.



Although no details on the Brazilian bond have been announced yet, traders said the size of the issue was likely to total around $1.0 billion.



"Brazil has been trading a little heavy in anticipation of the new deal which could conceivably come as early as today," said one Brady bond trader at another U.S. investment bank. "My guess is that it will be around $1.0 billion."



On Friday, a senior official at the Brazilian Central Bank said the country may issue sovereign debt in the very short term.



The market has been predicting the return of Brazil after a year of absence as a test of investor confidence.



Meanwhile, traders said fears of Russian involvement in the Yugoslav conflict appeared to abate but the debt of Balkan countries remained lower.



Bulgarian IABs		 were 1/2 weaker at 67 bid.



((Diane Craft, Emerging Markets Unit, 212-859-1661)).



(C) Reuters Limited 1999.


Document lba0000020010908dv4d036vm




 Business; Financial Desk 
 MARKET SAVVY SAVVY CONFIDENTIAL / A Briefing for Investors Compaq's Warning and Fallout for Funds 

Bloomberg News
296 words
13 April 1999
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-4
English
 Copyright 1999 / The Times Mirror Company 

 Compaq Computer's warning that first-quarter profit will be about half analyst forecasts is creating losses for scores of mutual funds that hold stakes in the No. 1 maker of personal computers. 

 Alleghany/Chicago Trust Talon Fund and Parnassus Fund had more than 6.2% of assets invested in Compaq at the end of last year, according to researchers at Morningstar. Neuberger & Berman Focus Fund had allocated 5.4% of assets to Compaq as recently as Feb. 28. 

 Other funds, including Mosaic Investors and White Oak Growth Stock, had more than 5% of assets invested in Compaq on Dec. 31, Morningstar reported. One Fidelity Investments fund, the $1.8-billion Select Computers Portfolio, included Compaq among its 10 biggest holdings at the end of December. 

 It's possible, of course, that some or even all these funds cut their holdings of Compaq before Monday's 22% plunge in the Houston-based company's stock, but there's no doubt funds were hurt by Compaq's slump and the broader decline in technology-related stocks, said Russel Kinnel, chief equity funds analyst at Morningstar. "It's a popular stock, and [Monday's] sell-off is sure to create losses for many funds," Kinnel said. In all, more than 560 funds recently held shares of Compaq, he said. 

 Compaq stock fell $6.88 to close at $24.06 on the New York Stock Exchange, as more than 110 million shares changed hands, six times the daily average of the last three months. Compaq said late Friday that it expects first-quarter earnings of about 15 cents a share--much lower than the 31 cents analysts expected. 

Document latm000020010828dv4d00nx9


 Evening Standard, London, Asian Markets Column 

 Lachlan Colquhoun 
613 words
13 April 1999
KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Evening Standard - London
KRTBN
English
Copyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)

 BT SET FOR HK MOBILES ALLIANCE WITH YAHOO! Shares in BT's newest Asian interest -- Hong Kong mobiles operator SmarTone -- jumped almost 10 percent today ahead of an announcement with US Internet heavyweight Yahoo! 

 SmarTone shares surged HK$2.25 to HK$26.50 in heavy volume, bringing to more than 17 percent gains made since BT said last week it would take a 20 percent stake in the company, for UKpound 244 million, or HK$25 a share. 

 Hong Kong analysts are suddenly bullish on SmarTone, which has been losing ground in the cut-throat local mobiles market. With BT as a shareholder, and Yahoo! as a partner, analysts say it could establish a bridgehead in China, where BT hopes to use SmarTone as "preferred vehicle" for entry to mainland markets. The company yesterday announced a new roaming deal for South Korea, and other rumours suggest possible acquisitions in Taiwan. 

 The movement in SmarTone shares came amid a firmer Hong Kong and other Far East markets, rebounding today on the back of another Wall Street record. In Hong Kong, the blue-chip Hang Seng index had gained 140.52 points to 11,885.26 shortly before the mid-session break. Brokers, however, said the move was a direct reaction to Wall Street and there was little local inspiration. 

 Market leader HSBC moved up HK$3 to HK$269, seen as the key to any assault by the main index on 12,000 points. Shares in property group Lai Fung surged 15 percent after news that a unit of the Bank of China would take a 22 percent stake. 

 In Tokyo, meanwhile, the market rebounded from yesterday's dip, the Nikkei 225 Average closing up 211.67 to 16,719. The rally faltered slightly after the index earlier traded 2 percent higher. Brokers said foreign investors, emboldened by the fact that Wall Street did not fall after the Compaq profit warning, returned to hunt for bargains, while pension-fund buying was also in evidence. Chemical and steel shares were higher, as were the bank and car-making sectors sold off yesterday. Nissan shares were up 2.2 percent, while Toyota added 2.3 percent after reports of a senior management reshuffle. Pharmaceuticals stock Kanebo gained more than 10 percent on a bullish sales forecast. 

 In Sydney, the main All Ordinaries index moved further into record territory, up another 40.80 points to 3079 shortly before the close. Emerging telco One.Tel, which yesterday approved a deal for Rupert Murdoch and Kerry Packer to pay more than A$700 million (UKpound 274.5 million) for respective 20 percent stakes in the company, were suspended from trading pending an announcement. Local reports claimed it was set to strike a deal with US telco Lucent Technologies to build an Australian network. 

 News Corp continued its sell-off of non-media assets, unveiling the sale of its stake in two Australian gas fields to Woodside Petroleum for A$18 million. Across the Tasman in New Zealand, shares in troubled conglomerate Brierley Investments hit a five-month high of 52 cents amid mounting rumours, including speculation over the appointment of a chief executive and a switch in listing to an Asian market. 

 Elsewhere, Taiwan's Composite index added 56.51 to 7298.91, Korea's Kospi index gained seven points to 696.64, while Jakarta's Composite index was up 6.87 at 428.02. In South-East Asia, Singapore's Straits Times index put on 23.93 to 1685.21, and Malaysia's Composite index added 6.17 to 577.58. The Thai market was closed for a holiday. 

Document krtbn00020010828dv4d00ml1




Foreign Exchange
 Dollar Ends Lower Against Yen, Euro Amid Early Fears of Tumble in Stocks 

 By Stephanie Hoo 
Dow Jones Newswires
604 words
13 April 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
C22
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 NEW YORK -- The dollar slipped lower against the yen and euro, falling in early trading on fears U.S. stocks would tumble, then failing to recover much when those fears proved overblown. 

 A profit warning from Compaq Computer Corp. Friday sent shivers through markets over the weekend, and currency players sold dollars heavily before the New York opening yesterday, especially against the yen. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell initially but then reversed course and finished up 165.67 points at 10339.51. The dollar edged higher on short-covering in the New York afternoon but didn't make a full recovery -- moves that analysts said reveal continued nervousness about the high valuations of U.S. stocks. 

 Also, perceived weakness in U.S. assets puts the ballooning U.S. trade deficit in high relief, weighing on the dollar. 

 The euro, while higher, continues to struggle even after the European Central Bank cut its refinancing rate Thursday. 

 "On a technical basis, the euro is trying to claw its way back up," said Susan Stearns, director of foreign exchange at the Bank of Montreal in New York. "In the wake of the rate cut, there's been steady interest to push up the euro, but that has been met with contravening interest to sell into rallies," she said. 

 The euro rose as high as $1.0877 Monday, failing to match last week's high of $1.0886. 

 Selling of the euro was led by shorter-term players, while the longer-term money has been more comfortable holding euro positions since the rate cut, Ms. Stearns said. 

 "Based on the price action over the past few days ... the euro is building a base at these levels," said Jay Bryson, international economist at First Union National Bank in Charlotte, N.C. "If you look back to when the [U.S. Federal Reserve] cut rates in October, the dollar initially dropped, consolidated for two or three days, then started grinding higher," he said. 

 But others said the ECB rate cut merely highlights Europe's structural problems. "They still have to cut taxes and do something about the high unemployment," said John Cholakis, a dealer at Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank in New York, anticipating that the euro will see $1.05 before it sees $1.10. 

 The dollar continues to trade sideways against the yen but remains well bid as traders expect outflows from Japan to increase in coming weeks as Japanese firms seek the higher returns they can earn abroad. 

 Late yesterday in New York, the dollar was trading at 120.25 yen, down from 120.88 yen late Friday. The euro was at $1.0812, up from $1.0795 Friday; sterling was at $1.6135, up from $1.6080. 

 Near midday Tuesday in Tokyo, the dollar was quoted at 120.61 yen, while the euro was at $1.0808. Sterling was trading at $1.6126. 

 Sterling ticked higher yesterday, adding to gains since Thursday's Bank of England rate cut. The euro was trading late Monday at 0.6701, down from 0.6712 late Friday. 

 The Canadian dollar strengthened on flows into Canadian assets, given speculation that the Bank of Canada will soon cut its rates. The U.S. dollar was trading C$1.4922 late yesterday, down from C$1.5010. 

 "The money market has priced in a cut of 0.25 percentage point," the Bank of Montreal's Ms. Stearns said, of the bank's current overnight-rate range of 4.75% to 5.25%. 

Document j000000020010828dv4d009zu




 Compaq's  profit warning  surprisingly ignored by the market 

 By BRUCE MEYERSON 
AP Business Writer
551 words
13 April 1999
07:30
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 1999.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.

 NEW YORK (AP) - You had all the perfect ingredients for a rotten day on Wall Street: a warning of weak profits from a big name in computers, a weekend to worry about it, and a pricey stock market ripe for profit-taking. 

 After some early quivers, however, investors delivered an odd verdict Monday. They pummeled the bringer of bad news, Compaq Computer, but sent four major indexes to new records. 

 Shares of Compaq, which employs 4,000 workers in New Hampshire, dove 22 percent following late Friday's announcement by the personal computer maker that its first-quarter earnings per share would amount to just half of what most Wall Street analysts were forecasting. 

 The discouraging news weighed down other computer stocks, but the Dow Jones industrial average shook off an early slide and shot 165 points higher to a record 10,339. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index also closed at a record. 

 More conspicuously, the technology-laden Nasdaq composite index wiped out an early 2.5 percent plunge and set a new high too. 

 Considering how much hope and hype has been crammed into cyber-centric stock rally of recent months, that might seem a blissfully ignorant response to a warning from the No. 1 maker of personal computers. 

 However, few observers condemned the market as cavalier or headstrong for shrugging off the Compaq announcement. 

 Actually, had the news come from investor favorites like IBM, Intel or Microsoft - companies seen as better barometers of the technology business - Monday's selling might have lasted more than a few minutes. 

 Instead, Wall Street quickly decided that Compaq's weak results had a lot more to do with Compaq than the industry or the overall economy. 

 "Everything points to the fact that this is company-specific problem," said John Shaughnessy, chief investment strategist for Advest Inc., noting that PC price wars have are particularly rough on Compaq, which relies more heavily on store sales than telephone and Internet sales. 

 Dell and Gateway, by contrast, don't sell PCs through retailers, eliminating the need to coordinate with vendors and give them a cut of the profits. 

 Compaq is "one of the few indirect sellers, one of the few high-cost operators," said Shaughnessy. "Prices are coming down, and they can't get their costs down fast enough." 

 Another factor that may be holding back Compaq, analysts said, is last year's acquisition of computer maker Digital Equipment, a merger that hasn't gone as smoothly as hoped. 

 Although rival PC makers took some lumps on Monday, the damage was rather contained compared with drubbing given Compaq's shares, which fell $6.87 1/2 to $24.06 1/4 on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Shares of Dell, which last week told analysts that its business has been on target in recent months, fell 4 percent, or $1.75 to $41.82 1/2 in Nasdaq trading. 

 IBM, which last week announced a major foray into direct PC sales from its Web site, fell $2.87 1/2 per share to $183.43 3/4 on the NYSE. Gateway's shares fell 2.87 1/2 to 69.87 1/2 , also on the NYSE. 

Rush

Document aprs000020010830dv4d04c8p




Currency Markets
 Dollar Falls Against Yen, Euro on Jitters Over Stocks 

 By Stephanie Hoo 
Dow Jones Newswires
470 words
13 April 1999
The Asian Wall Street Journal
AWSJ
26
English
(c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 NEW YORK -- The dollar slipped against the yen and the euro, falling in early trading on fears U.S. stocks would tumble and then failing to recover much ground when those fears proved overblown. 

 Late Monday in New York, the dollar was trading at 120.25 yen, down from 120.88 yen late Friday. The euro was at $1.0812, up from $1.0795 Friday; sterling was at $1.6135, above $1.6080. 

 A profit warning from Compaq Computer Friday sent shivers through markets over the weekend, and currency players sold dollars heavily before the New York open Monday, especially against the yen. 

 The Dow Jones industrials fell initially, but then reversed course to finish up 165.67 points, at 10339.51. The dollar edged higher on short-covering in the afternoon, but didn't make a full recovery -- moves that analysts say reveal continued nervousness about the high valuation of U.S. stocks. 

 Also, perceived weakness in American assets puts the ballooning U.S. trade deficit in high relief, weighing on the dollar. 

 The euro, while higher against the dollar Monday, continues to struggle even after the European Central Bank cut its refinancing rate last week. 

 "On a technical basis, the euro is trying to claw its way back up," said Susan Stearns, director of foreign exchange at the Bank of Montreal in New York. "In the wake of the rate cut, there's been steady interest to push up the euro, but that has been met with contravening interest to sell into rallies," she said. 

 The euro rose as high as $1.0879 Monday, failing to match last week's high of $1.0886. 

 Selling was led by shorter-term players, while the longer-term money has been more comfortable holding euro positions since the rate cut, Ms. Stearns said. 

 "Based on the price action over the past few days . . . the euro is building a base at these levels," said Jay Bryson, international economist at First Union National Bank in Charlotte, North Carolina. "If you look back to when the (U.S. Federal Reserve) cut rates in October, the dollar initially dropped, consolidated for two or three days, then started grinding higher," he said. 

 But others say the ECB rate cut merely highlights Europe's structural problems. "They still have to cut taxes and do something about the high unemployment," said John Cholakis, a dealer at Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank in New York who expects the euro will see $1.05 before it sees $1.10. 

 The dollar has been trading sideways against the yen, but remains well bid as traders expect outflows from Japan to increase in coming weeks as Japanese firms seek the higher returns they can earn abroad. 

Document awsj000020010825dv4d003w8




NATION/WORLD
BUSINESS
DOW CRACKS 10,300 MARK FOR FIRST TIME

Bloomberg News   
612 words
13 April 1999
Charlotte Observer (NC)
CLTO
ONE - THREE
1D
English
Copyright 1999 The Charlotte Observer. All rights reserved.   

U.S. stocks rose to records Monday after overcoming an early drop triggered by a warning on profit from Compaq Computer Corp. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose above 10,300 for the first time.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 165.67, or 1.6 percent, to a record 10,339.51, rebounding from a 77-point drop. The Standard & Poor's 500 Index climbed 10.28, or 0.8 percent, to a record 1358.63. Even the computer-heavy Nasdaq Composite Index gained 5.76, or 0.2 percent, to a record 2598.81, after falling 66 points earlier in the day.

Compaq, the world's largest maker of personal computers, dived $6.75, or 22 percent, to 24.18-3/4. But ``investors concluded ``that weakness in Compaq is within the company and not indicative of something within the economy,'' said Richard Caro, a portfolio manager at Summit Bank in New Jersey.


   - Bloomberg News

   *

   Stock sale would convert Goldman Sachs into giant

   Goldman Sachs Group LP plans to sell shares worth as much as $3.8 billion


next month, transforming the 130-year-old private investment bank into the fourth-biggest U.S. securities firm by stock market worth.

As many as 69 million shares, or 14.8 percent of the firm, will be sold for between $45 and $55 each, Goldman told the Securities and Exchange Commission. The sale, expected the first week of May, values the firm at as much as $25.6 billion. Shares owned by Chairman and Chief Executive Henry Paulson and the four other top executives would be worth as much as $867 million.


   - Bloomberg News

   *

   Adelphia builds cable clout with purchase of Harron

   Adelphia Communications Corp., moving to become the fourth-largest U.S.


cable-TV company, agreed to buy the cable systems of closely held Harron Communications Corp. for $1.17 billion in cash to expand in New England and Philadelphia.

Adelphia, which operates mostly in the mid-Atlantic region and Florida, will add about 300,000 customers.


   - Bloomberg News

   *

   Ford buys car-repair chain in Britain for $1.63 billion

   Ford Motor Co., the world's second-biggest automaker, agreed to buy British
car-repair chain Kwik-Fit Holdings PLC for $1.63 billion in cash.

   Kwik-Fit has 1,900 outlets in Europe. Ford is ``looking to make more money


out of each car it sells, which means it wants to provide service for life,'' JD Power-LMC auto consultant Charles Moss said.


   - Bloomberg News

   *

   In brief

   CHASE SECURITIES' credit derivatives head, J. Gregg Whittaker, resigned


from the firm. Whittaker, who was unavailable for comment, joined the firm in September 1994 from SG Warburg.

CBS BOUGHT Dallas TV station KTVT from Gaylord Entertainment for $485 million in stock. CBS also bought stakes in two Internet companies - hollywood.com and storeRunner.com - in exchange for $200 million worth of promotion and advertising.

STARWOOD HOTELS said it's in talks to possibly sell its Caesars World casinos.

IBM JOINED with software maker RealNetworks to deliver CD-quality music over the Internet to computer users.

THE TREASURY sold $6.51 billion in three-month bills at a discount rate of 4.190 percent, down from 4.265 percent last week. An additional $7.5 billion was sold in six-month bills at a rate of 4.320 percent, down from 4.345 percent. The actual return to investors: 4.305 percent for three-month bills with a $10,000 bill selling for $9,894.10 and 4.490 percent for a six-month bill selling for $9,781.60.

Document CLTO000020090629dv4d01tkv




 FFBN Drug Wrap:Stocks End Week w/45 Basis Pt Gain (CONT) 

499 words
12 April 1999
13:36
Federal Filings Newswires
FF
English
(c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


GENENTECH INC. (GNE)              84 13/16 -11/16 -0.8%  $1.63  $2.19
Genentech is currently in negotiations with the U.S. Attorney for the
Northern District of California aimed at resolving the government's
investigation into Genentech's promotion of human growth hormone during
the late 1980's and early 1990's.  The company is discussing with the
U.S. Attorney a potential settlement in which Genentech would pay a
criminal fine and restitution in the amount of $50 million.  This
potential settlement, which is still under discussion and is not
concluded, would resolve charges that the company promoted its human
growth hormone from 1985-1994 for uses which had not been approved by
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.  Any agreement reached would be
subject to court approval.



                                             Net    Pct    EPS    EPS
                                    Close  Change Change   99E    00E
KERAVISION INC. (KERA)             13 5/16 -1 3/4 -11.6% ($1.89)($0.16)
Dow Jones News reported that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration has
approved Kervision's Intacs, small, crescent-shaped implants for people
who are slightly nearsighted, but want their vision corrected without
eyeglasses or contact lenses.  In a January advisory committee meeting,
KeraVision said its product was preferable to laser surgery because the
devices are removable.  However, the FDA didn't agree the process was
completely reversible.  "Intacs are considered to be permanent implants,
but they can be removed if necessary," the agency said Friday.  "In most
cases, vision returns to its pre-surgery level, but some patients may
have visual symptoms (glare, halos around lights, etc.) after removal."
=======================================================================
         Turning to the broader market, on Friday, the Dow Jones
Industrial Average lost 23.86 to 10173.84, the S&P 500 Index gained 4.37
to 1348.35 and the Nasdaq Composite Index advanced 19.66 to 2593.05.
         CNNfn reported that Wall Street sighed with mingled relief and
exhaustion Friday as consolidation pushed the Dow industrials slightly
off its record highs, and the Nasdaq and S&P 500 celebrated the end of
corporate earnings-warning season by climbing into fresh unexplored
territory.
         Bonds started the day higher after the March producer price
index showed inflation in the U.S. economy remains lower than investors
had expected.  However, a hint of profit-taking crept in by mid-
afternoon, driving the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond down 4/32 of a
point in price to yield 5.45%.
=======================================================================
Brian A. Tunison
Research Analyst
(202) 393-0426
E-mail: brian.tunison@fedfil.com
Christian Guadalupe
Financial Reporter
(202) 393-7846
E-mail: chris.guadalupe@fedfil.com
Note: All earnings estimates provided by Zacks Investment Research.
Index components are available on request.



(END) FEDERAL FILINGS-DOW JONES NEWS 04-12-99



08:36


Document ff00000020010827dv4c00ylh




 Foreign Exchange: Dollar Modestly Lower Against Major Currencies 

809 words
12 April 1999
13:07
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- The dollar finished lower against the euro, British pound and yen Monday, but ended well off its intraday lows, benefiting from a recovery by blue chips on Wall Street, where the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed in record territory. Stocks in New York had opened broadly lower, following a surprise profit-warning by Compaq Computer Corp. late Friday, which initially triggered heavy selling of the U.S. currency. 

 Late Monday, the euro was quoted at $1.0812, up from $1.0795 late Friday in New York. The dollar was quoted at 120.25 yen, down from 120.88 yen late Friday in New York. The British pound was quoted at $1.6135, up from $1.6080 in New York late Friday. 

 Compaq, a leading U.S. technology stock, shocked investors by warning Friday that its first-quarter profit will be less than half of Wall Street's projections. The earnings warning from the No. 1 personal-computer maker and cautious comments from an analyst about leading chip maker Intel led to broad weakness in U.S. stocks early Monday. But the Dow industrial average recovered, ending up 165.67 points, or 1.6%, at 10339.51 as the Compaq fears appeared to be overblown regarding their impact on the broader market. 

 Traders blamed the dollar's decline on selling from European funds and other European and U.S. institutional investors. The dollar edged higher on short-covering in the New York afternoon but didn't make a full recovery - moves that analysts said reveal continued nervousness about the high valuation of U.S. stocks. 

 Record foreign purchases of Japanese equities in March, which helped the Nikkei 225 stock index rise about 18%, buoyed the yen against the dollar, analysts said. Japan's Finance Ministry released preliminary data showing that foreigners bought a net 1.599 trillion yen ($13.3 billion) in Japanese securities last month. The data follows Thursday's announcement by the Tokyo Stock Exchange that foreigners had purchased the largest amount of foreign securities since the Tokyo bourse began operation in 1982. 

 Currency analysts said the numbers confirmed the greater-than-expected move into Japanese assets, which they say is one of the factors capping the dollar's rise and keeping it in a tight range against the yen. 

 After last week's decision by the European Central Bank to cut its benchmark interest rate a half percentage point to 2.5%, traders said developments in Kosovo will hold the key for future euro movements. 

 North Atlantic Treaty Organization foreign ministers are reviewing NATO's bombing campaign in Yugoslavia, now into its third week. Although they are expected to reaffirm that ground forces won't be needed, the huge relief effort under way for Kosovo refugees is keeping entanglement risks in the foreground. 

 "On a technical basis, the euro is trying to claw its way back up," said Susan Stearns, director of foreign exchange at the Bank of Montreal in New York. "In the wake of the rate cut, there's been steady interest to push up the euro, but that has been met with contravening interest to sell into rallies." 

 But others say the ECB rate cut merely highlights Europe's structural problems. "They still have to cut taxes and do something about the high unemployment," said John Cholakis, a dealer at Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank in New York, anticipating that the euro will see $1.05 before it sees $1.10. 

 In other euro-zone news, Swedish Prime Minister Goeran Persson said that Bosse Ringholm will succeed Erik Aasbrink as Sweden's finance minister. Ringholm's appointment follows Aasbrink's surprise resignation earlier Monday over sharp differences on the Swedish economy with Persson. News of the resignation pressured the Swedish krona against the euro. 

 In Moscow, the ruble ended slightly firmer against the dollar as some liquidity-strapped banks sold dollars to raise funds for settling client payments. The Russian currency ended at 25.91 rubles to the dollar, compared with 26.10 rubles on Friday. 

 The dollar also was quoted at 1.4783 Swiss francs, down from 1.4825 Swiss francs late Friday in New York, and at 1.4922 Canadian dollars, down from C$1.5010 late Friday. 

 In Mexico City, the peso ended much firmer against the dollar Monday. The peso was quoted 9.5050 per dollar, compared with 9.5600 late Friday. 

 Meanwhile, the Brazilian real strengthened to below the 1.70 to the dollar threshold for the first time in nearly three months. The real finished at 1.6925 to the dollar, compared to Friday's finish of 1.7050. This was the first session since Jan. 21 that real-dollar rates have dipped below 1.70. 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020329dv4c02a5v




 Forex Options: Volatilities Falling As Dlr Makes Slight Gain 

376 words
12 April 1999
19:32
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Volatilities implied by euro/dollar and dollar/yen options are both slightly lower mid-afternoon Monday in New York as the dollar moves higher in narrow ranges against both currencies. 

 Volatilities however, remain higher than Friday's close, following the dollar's fall against both the euro and yen in the spot market. 

 Traders attributed the fall to various factors, including consolidation in technically-led trading to the expected lower open of U.S. stocks after a profit warning by Compaq Computer Corp. 

 At around 1812 GMT, one-month at-the-money euro/dollar options imply volatility of 9.50% bid, slightly lower than 9.55% earlier in London and 9.55% in Tokyo, but unchanged from 9.50% late in New York Friday. 

 One-month dollar/yen options imply volatility of 14.5% bid, slightly lower than 14.6% in London, but higher than 13.6% in Tokyo and 13.3% in New York late Friday. 

 Volatilities implied by dollar/yen currency options began to rise from last week's 10-month lows as the U.S. currency broke below the Y120.00 level. Options traders, however, said the dollar would have to fall below the Y119.50 level before the market really got nervous. 

 One-month risk reversals are biased towards yen calls at 1.5% and toward euro calls at 0.2%. 

 Risk reversals reflect the difference between the premiums paid for call (buy) options and put (sell) options within strategies that involve positions in both. In this way, they offer a certain, but by no means definitive measure of the market's implied expectations of the direction in which the underlying currency will move. 

 At 1820, the dollar is trading at Y120.10, up from Y119.85 at 1125 GMT and from Y120.60 at 0435 GMT in Tokyo, but down from Y120.88 late Friday in New York. 


The euro was at $1.0832, down from $1.0865 at 1125 GMT and from
$1.0835 in Tokyo, but up from $1.0795 Friday in New York.
-By Marianne Sullivan; 201-938-4385
 marianne.sulliva@dowjones.com



(END) Dow Jones Newswires 12-04-99



1832GMT


1077 4127 44427

Document dji0000020010826dv4c02sf4




 Small-Cap Stocks: Russell 2000 Holds Steady As Nasdaq Dips 

The Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition
430 words
12 April 1999
16:44
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Small-capitalization stocks were stable Monday, outperforming the Nasdaq Stock Market with help from the financial-services sector. 


The Russell 2000 Index, which tracks the direction of small stocks
traded on both the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq Stock Market,
was up 0.29 to 406.15. The Nasdaq Composite Index, which measures the
performance of large and small issues traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market,
was off 22.80 to 2570.30. The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 18 to
10192.
   Technology shares weakened after a surprise warning by Compaq
Computer, a leading U.S. technology stock, late Friday that its
first-quarter profit will be less than half of Wall Street's
projections. The Nasdaq Computer Index fell 26.10 to 1353.60, while
the Philadelphia Stock Exchange Semiconductor Index lost 13 to 397.


 Among mixed showings by other Nasdaq industry indexes, financial services, the dominant industry on the Russell 2000, led gainers with a surge of 89.30. 

 Among small-capitalization stocks, with market capitalizations of $1.5 billion or less, U.S. Office Products jumped 2 1/8 to 6 after its unit, Mail Boxes Etc., signed a five-year agreement to provide electronic-commerce shipping services to the San Jose, Calif., Internet auction house eBay. U.S. Office Products is a franchiser of retail business communication and postal service centers. 

 Curative Health Services, Hauppauge, N.Y., tumbled 3 1/4 to 4 13/16. The company, which manages disease associated with chronic-wound care, is accused of financial wrongdoing in a lawsuit that the U.S. Department of Justice recently joined as a plaintiff. 

 Spectrian, Sunnyvale, Calif., dove 1 15/16 to 8 3/8 after warning that it expects to record a loss of $1.75 to $1.95 a share for its fourth quarter, which ended March 31. The loss is far worse than the 75-cent deficit that analysts expected. 

 Big Entertainment gained 5 5/16 to 21 11/16 after the Boca Raton, Fla., publisher and marketer of comic books agreed to joint-venture ownership of hollywood.com with CBS. Big Entertainment recently agreed to acquire hollywood.com from Times Mirror in a transaction expected to close during the second quarter. In exchange for a 35% ownership position, CBS will provide hollywood.com, a provider of movie information on the Internet, with $100 million of promotion and other services. 

 (END) Dow Jones Newswires 12-04-99 

 1544GMT 

5039

Document dji0000020010826dv4c02s4x




 Japan's Toshiba, NEC Stocks Dn On Compaq's 1Q Pft Preview 

251 words
12 April 1999
02:05
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 TOKYO (Nikkei/Dow Jones)--Stocks of Toshiba Corp. (J.TOS or 6502) and NEC Corp. (NIPNY or 6701), two of Japan 's leading computer makers, are lower Monday morning in Tokyo, after Compaq Computer Corp. (CPQ) said last Friday its first-quarter earnings will fall below analysts' estimates. 

 Around 0100 GMT (9 p.m. EDT Sunday), Toshiba shares were down Y3 at Y867 on volume of 1.3 million shares on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. 

 NEC shares was off Y25, or 1.7%, at Y1,430 on 1.2 million shares. 

 Compaq now expects to report a profit of about 15 cents a share, 16 cents below First Call Corp.'s 31 cent estimate. 

 The U.S. computer maker's announcement fueled worries over the high technology sector's outlook in Japan, traders said. 

 Also, Tokyo market players were disheartened by sharp drops in Standard & Poor's 500 stock index futures in Asian screen trade, one participant said. 

 "Compaq's profit warning will likely affect the Tokyo stock market by generating short-term sell reasons for high-tech stocks," said Yuji Sakurai, an analyst at Tokyo Securities. 

 "But investor confidence may be restored if Intel Corp. (INTC) releases strong earnings results Tuesday, as expected by many," he added. 

 Shares in computer maker Fujitsu Ltd. (FJTSY or 6702) were Y10 higher at Y2,110 after falling to Y2,080, down Y20. 

 (END) Dow Jones Newswires 12-04-99 

 0105GMT 

Document dji0000020010826dv4c02pre




 World Forex: Dollar Slips Vs Yen, Euro On DJIA Worries 

 By Stephanie Hoo 
470 words
12 April 1999
21:30
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--The dollar slipped lower against the yen and euro Monday, falling in early trading on fears U.S. stocks would tumble, then failing to recover much when those fears proved overblown. 

 A profit warning from Compaq Computer Corp. Friday sent shivers through markets over the weekend, and currency players sold dollars heavily before the New York open Monday, especially against the yen. 

 Dow Jones industrials fell initially but then reversed course and finished up 165 points. The dollar edged higher on short-covering in the New York afternoon but didn't make a full recovery - moves that analysts say reveal continued nervousness about the high valuation of U.S. stocks. 

 Also, perceived weakness in U.S. assets puts the ballooning U.S. trade deficit in high relief, weighing on the dollar. 

 The euro, while higher, continues to struggle even after the European Central Bank cut its refinancing rate Thursday. 

 "On a technical basis, the euro is trying to claw its way back up," said Susan Stearns, director of foreign exchange at the Bank of Montreal in New York. "In the wake of the rate cut, there's been steady interest to push up the euro, but that has been met with contravening interest to sell into rallies," she said. 

 The euro rose as high as $1.0879 Monday, failing to match last week's high of $1.0886. 

 Selling was led by shorter-term players, while the longer-term money has been more comfortable holding euro positions since the rate cut, Stearns said. 

 "Based on the price action over the past few days ... the euro is building a base at these levels," said Jay Bryson, international economist at First Union National Bank in Charlotte, N.C. "If you look back to when the (U.S. Federal Reserve) cut rates in October, the dollar initially dropped, consolidated for two or three days, then started grinding higher," he said. 

 But others say the ECB rate cut merely highlights Europe's structural problems. "They still have to cut taxes and do something about the high unemployment," said John Cholakis, a dealer at Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank in New York, anticipating that the euro will see $1.05 before it sees $1.10. 

 The dollar continues to trade sideways against the yen but remains well-bid as traders expect outflows from Japan to increase in coming weeks as Japanese firms seek the higher returns they can earn abroad. 

 Late Monday in New York, the dollar was trading at Y120.25 down from Y120.88 late Friday. The euro was at $1.0812, up from $1.0795 Friday; sterling was at $1.6135, above $1.6080. 

 (MORE) Dow Jones Newswires 12-04-99 

 2030GMT 

1033 1865 20714 4164

Document dji0000020010826dv4c02o6b




 N.Y. Stocks: Mkt Dn Early On Compaq Warn But DJIA Swings Up 

Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition Roundup
796 words
12 April 1999
16:14
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Blue-chip stocks lost ground early Monday as the market reacted to a warning from Compaq Computer that its first-quarter profit will be less than half the level Wall Street analysts expected. 

 Still, the losses in blue-chip stocks were narrower than many analysts had feared and by midmorning the Dow Jones Industrial Average had reversed course. The DJIA fell a little more than 70 points at its opening low, despite predictions earlier in the morning that the opening loss could approach 200 points. As of about 11:10 a.m., the DJIA was up 3 at 10177. 

 The Nasdaq Composite Index was weaker, losing more than 65 points, or 2.5%, at worst. The average rebounded to show a loss of just 58 points to 10116 about a half hour after the opening bell and later was off just 19 at 2574. 

 Dow component Caterpillar helped to narrow the loss, gaining 1 5/8 to 50 3/8. Merrill Lynch & Co. upgraded its near-term investment rating on the Peoria, Ill., manufacturer to 'accumulate" from "neutral." The Nasdaq composite showed a loss of 54.90 to 2538, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 12 to 1336.30 and the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index dropped 3.70 to 622.90. Declining issues outpaced advancers 1,540 to 830 on the Big Board, as volume reached 133 million shares. 

 Shares of Compaq plunged 7 to 23 15/16. Late on Friday, the Dallas computer giant reported that heightened competition and disappointing sales of its most profitable PCs would leave its earnings at 15 cents a share, well below the 32 cents analysts predicted. The question investors must grapple with now, analysts say, is whether Compaq's problems are specific to the company or an indication that other technology bellwethers will have trouble hitting their earnings targets. Analysts noted that although Compaq's earnings will be weak, competitor Dell Computer is expected to post solid results. Indeed, analysts attribute part of Compaq's troubles to moves it made in response to competition from Dell to sell more PCs directly to businesses. Shares of Dell lost 2 1/4 to 41 5/16. 

 BancBoston Robertson Stephens downgraded the shares Monday of Hewlett-Packard. H-P shares fell 3 5/8 to 66. Intel slid 3 5/8 to 62 1/8. 

 BancBoston Robertson Stephens also downgraded its long-term rating on the Santa Clara, Calif., designer of microcomputer compon ents to "attractive" from "strong buy.' Among other high-tech issues, Lucent Technologies tumbled 3 1/8 to 60 1/2, Applied Materials lost 2 7/8 to 63 5/8, Sun Microsystems lost 1 5/8 to 68 5/8 and Microsoft eased 1 13/16 to 92 7/16. 

 Internet stocks were mixed. America Online lost 1 3/16 to 158 3/4 and Yahoo! dropped 3 9/16 to 203 7/16, but Amazon.com rose 1 1/16 to 183 15/16 and eBay jumped another 7 5/8 to 191. AboveNet Communications soared 17 11/16, or 17%, to 122 9/16. 

 The San Jose, Calif., Internet connectivity provider said that it entered into an agreement with DoubleClick to co-locate DoubleClick's Web servers at AboveNet's Internet Service Exchanges. The companies said co-locating content providers and Internet service providers should lead to faster, improved performance and network reliability. Shares of New York DoubleClick, which sells advertising packages on behalf of its network members, jumped 9 1/8 to 138. 

 RealNetworks surged 27 1/2 to 235 on Nasdaq after the Seattle developer of software that enables consumers to play music on personal computers entered an agreement with International Business Machines. The companies say the pact will be to develop a system to deliver music over the Internet using IBM security features. RealNetworks will provide the front-end, or consumer interface, and IBM will providing the back-end of a system that will ship songs to consumers. Shares of IBM fell 4 3/16 to 182 1/8. 

 Dow Jones rose 1 5/16 to 49 7/16. The New York publishing con cern posted better-than-expected first-quarter earnings that easily topped expectations, aided by improved advertising at The Wall Street Journal and stronger margins at  its community newspapers. Dow Jones posted net income of 56 cents a share, compared with year-ago net of 50 cents a share. Excluding one-time gains, the company would have earned 44 cents a share, topping analysts' estimates of 38 cents a share. 

 (END) DOW JONES NEWS  04-12-99 

 11:14 AM 

Document dj00000020010826dv4c026iq




 N.Y. Late Market Comment -3: S&P, Nasdaq Records 

321 words
12 April 1999
22:04
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 There were a number of casualties among the blue-chip sector, especially among the computer makers, whose profit prospects presumably would be damaged, if Compaq's warning that its troubles originated with a sector-wide problem in the PC business, rather than from a company-specific shortfall, are borne out. 

 Whether investors took Compaq's explanations at face value or not, stocks in the group sold off. Shares of Dell Computer lost 1 3/4 to 41 13/16 on Nasdaq, though its volume Monday of 42 million shares trailed daily average of 49 million. Gateway lost 2 7/8 to 69 7/8. 

 There was some fallout in the broader high-technology sector, as well. Intel dropped 4 1/8 to 61 1/4 on Nasdaq, part of a decline in several semiconductor issues. The chip maker said that it planned to decrease prices of some of its Pentium processors, extending its price war with Advanced Micro Devices in the market for low-end chips. Advanced Micro lost 9/16 to 15 1/16. Motorola, which is slated to report earnings Tuesday, fell 1 7/16 to 81 9/16, and Texas Instruments declined 3 13/16 to 106 13/16. Micron Technology lost 3 1/8 to 44 3/4. 

 Among software stocks, EMC dropped 4 5/8 to 130 1/4, Microsoft declined 1 1/4 to 93 on Nasdaq, and Computer Associates fell 1 to 34 15/16. 

 But the weakness didn't prevent broad-market measures that have an exposure to technology stocks from reaching records. The Standard & Poor's 500 Stock Index moved up 10.28, or 0.76%, to 1358.63. 

 The Nasdaq Composite moved up 5.76, or 0.22%, or 2598.81. Both indicators reached records, extending Friday's highs. 

 (MORE) DOW JONES NEWS  04-12-99 

 05:04 PM 

Document dj00000020010826dv4c0252t




 Japan's Toshiba, NEC Stocks Dn On Compaq's 1Q Pft Preview 

253 words
12 April 1999
02:05
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 TOKYO (Nikkei/Dow Jones)--Stocks of Toshiba Corp. (J.TOS or 6502) and NEC Corp. (NIPNY or 6701), two of Japan 's leading computer makers, are lower Monday morning in Tokyo, after Compaq Computer Corp. (CPQ) said last Friday its first-quarter earnings will fall below analysts' estimates. 

 Around 0100 GMT (9 p.m. EDT Sunday), Toshiba shares were down Y3 at Y867 on volume of 1.3 million shares on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. 

 NEC shares was off Y25, or 1.7%, at Y1,430 on 1.2 million shares. 

 Compaq now expects to report a profit of about 15 cents a share, 16 cents below First Call Corp.'s 31 cent estimate. 

 The U.S. computer maker's announcement fueled worries over the high technology sector's outlook in Japan, traders said. 

 Also, Tokyo market players were disheartened by sharp drops in Standard & Poor's 500 stock index futures in Asian screen trade, one participant said. 

 "Compaq's profit warning will likely affect the Tokyo stock market by generating short-term sell reasons for high-tech stocks," said Yuji Sakurai, an analyst at Tokyo Securities. 

 "But investor confidence may be restored if Intel Corp. (INTC) releases strong earnings results Tuesday, as expected by many," he added. 

 Shares in computer maker Fujitsu Ltd. (FJTSY or 6702) were Y10 higher at Y2,110 after falling to Y2,080, down Y20. 

 (END) DOW JONES NEWS  04-11-99 

 09:05 PM 

Document dj00000020010826dv4c024zh




 World Forex: Dollar Slips Vs Yen, Euro On DJIA Worries 

 By Stephanie Hoo 
472 words
12 April 1999
21:30
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--The dollar slipped lower against the yen and euro Monday, falling in early trading on fears U.S. stocks would tumble, then failing to recover much when those fears proved overblown. 

 A profit warning from Compaq Computer Corp. Friday sent shivers through markets over the weekend, and currency players sold dollars heavily before the New York open Monday, especially against the yen. 

 Dow Jones industrials fell initially but then reversed course and finished up 165 points. The dollar edged higher on short-covering in the New York afternoon but didn't make a full recovery - moves that analysts say reveal continued nervousness about the high valuation of U.S. stocks. 

 Also, perceived weakness in U.S. assets puts the ballooning U.S. trade deficit in high relief, weighing on the dollar. 

 The euro, while higher, continues to struggle even after the European Central Bank cut its refinancing rate Thursday. 

 'On a technical basis, the euro is trying to claw its way back up,' said Susan Stearns, director of foreign exchange at the Bank of Montreal in New York. 'In the wake of the rate cut, there's been steady interest to push up the euro, but that has been met with contravening interest to sell into rallies,' she said. 

 The euro rose as high as $1.0879 Monday, failing to match last week's high of $1.0886. 

 Selling was led by shorter-term players, while the longer-term money has been more comfortable holding euro positions since the rate cut, Stearns said. 

 'Based on the price action over the past few days ... the euro is building a base at these levels,' said Jay Bryson, international economist at First Union National Bank in Charlotte, N.C. 'If you look back to when the (U.S. Federal Reserve) cut rates in October, the dollar initially dropped, consolidated for two or three days, then started grinding higher,' he said. 

 But others say the ECB rate cut merely highlights Europe's structural problems. 'They still have to cut taxes and do something about the high unemployment,' said John Cholakis, a dealer at Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank in New York, anticipating that the euro will see $1.05 before it sees $1.10. 

 The dollar continues to trade sideways against the yen but remains well-bid as traders expect outflows from Japan to increase in coming weeks as Japanese firms seek the higher returns they can earn abroad. 

 Late Monday in New York, the dollar was trading at Y120.25 down from Y120.88 late Friday. The euro was at $1.0812, up from $1.0795 Friday; sterling was at $1.6135, above $1.6080. 

 (MORE) DOW JONES NEWS  04-12-99 

 04:30 PM 

1033 1865 20714 4164

Document dj00000020010826dv4c024x8




 Small-Cap Stks Extend Gains As Financial Services Surge 

Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition Roundup
672 words
12 April 1999
19:46
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Small-capitalization stocks extended gains
Monday as the Nasdaq Stock Market recovered from ea rlier weakness and
financial services surged.
   The Russell 2000 Index, which tracks the direction of small stocks
traded on both the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq Stock
Market, rose 6.80 to 412.70 in midafternoon trading. The Nasdaq
Composite Index, which measures the performance of large and small
issues traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market, rose 6.60 to 2599.60. The
Dow Jones Industrial Average advanced 148 to 10321.



Declining Nasdaq issues outnumbered advancers, 1,965 to 1,843.
Technology shares trimmed losses, but remained weak after a surprise
warning by Compaq Computer, a leading U.S. technology stock, late Friday
that its first-quarter profit will be less than half of Wall Street's
projections. The Nasdaq Computer Index fell 14.30 to 1365.50, while the
Philadelphia Stock Exchange Semiconductor Index lost 15.90 to 394.20.


 Other Nasdaq industry indexes posted gains, led by financial services, the dominant industry on the Russell 2000, which soared 189.60 to 37 74. 

 Among small-capitalization stocks, with market capitalizations of $1.5 billion or less, U.S. Office Products jumped 1 11/16 to 5 9/16 after its unit, Mail Boxes Etc., signed a five-year agreement to provide electronic-commerce shipping services to the San Jose, Calif., Internet auction house eBay. U.S. Office Products is a franchiser of retail business communication and postal service centers. 

 Curative Health Services, Hauppauge, N.Y., tumbled 3 to 5 1/16. The company, which manages disease associated with chronic-wound care, is accused of financial wrongdoing in a lawsuit that the U.S. Department of Justice recently joined as a plaintiff. 


Spectrian, Sunnyvale, Calif., dove 15/16 to 9 3/8 after warning that
it expects to record a loss of $1.75 to $1.95 a share for its fourth
quarter, which ended March 31. The loss is far worse than the 75-cent
deficit that analysts expected by the maker of power amplifiers.
   Big Entertainment rose 11 1/16 to 26 13/16 after the Boca Raton,
Fla., publi sher and marketer of comic books agreed to joint-venture
ownership of hollywood.com with CBS. Big Entertainment recently agreed
to acquire hollywood.com from Times Mirror in a transaction expected to
close during the second quarter. In exchange for a 35% ownership
position, CBS will provide hollywood.com, a provider of movie
information on the Internet, with $100 million of promotion and other
services.
MGI Pharma, Minneapolis, gained 1 1/4 to 10 1/4 after the
pharmaceutical company said studie s of its chemotherapy agent MGI 114
show the drug, which is derived from a mushroom, may be able to inhibit
the growth of human cancer cells.
   Metatec advanced 3/4 to 5 1/4 after the Dublin, Ohio,
information-distribution company said it expects to earn between 13
cents and 17 cents a basic share for the first quarter, up from nine
cents a share last year.
   Big-Board traded Paragon Trade Brands, Norcross, Ga., fell 9/16 to 2
3/16. The maker of disposable diapers reported a loss of $6.59 a share
in the fourth quarter and warned that first-quarter earnings will be
"substantially below" levels of a year earlier, when it earned 50
cents a share. It said various costs associated with settlement
agreements with Procter & Gamble and Kimberly-Clark were
unpredictable.



Meadowcraft, Birmingham, Ala., jumped 1 1/4 to 7 5/16 on the Big
Board. Late Friday the board of the outdoor furniture maker appointed
three independent directors to review a buyout proposal made by Samuel
R. Blount, the company's c hairman and 73% controlling shareholder, to
purchase about 5.3 million common shares of Meadowcraft for $8 a share
in cash.



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  04-12-99



02:46 PM


Document dj00000020010826dv4c024i0




 Small-Cap Stocks: Russell 2000 Holds Steady As Nasdaq Dips 

The Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition
431 words
12 April 1999
16:44
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Small-capitalization stocks were stable Monday, outperforming the Nasdaq Stock Market with help from the financial-services sector. 


The Russell 2000 Index, which tracks the direction of small stocks
traded on both the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq Stock Market,
was up 0.29 to 406.15. The Nasdaq Composite Index, which measures the
performance of large and small issues traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market,
was off 22.80 to 2570.30. The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 18 to
10192.
   Technology shares weakened after a surprise warning by Compaq
Computer, a leading U.S. technology stock, late Friday that its
first-quarter profit will be less than half of Wall Street's
projections. The Nasdaq Computer Index fell 26.10 to 1353.60, while
the Philadelphia Stock Exchange Semiconductor Index lost 13 to 397.


 Among mixed showings by other Nasdaq industry indexes, financial services, the dominant industry on the Russell 2000, led gainers with a surge of 89.30. 

 Among small-capitalization stocks, with market capitalizations of $1.5 billion or less, U.S. Office Products jumped 2 1/8 to 6 after its unit, Mail Boxes Etc., signed a five-year agreement to provide electronic-commerce shipping services to the San Jose, Calif., Internet auction house eBay. U.S. Office Products is a franchiser of retail business communication and postal service centers. 

 Curative Health Services, Hauppauge, N.Y., tumbled 3 1/4 to 4 13/16. The company, which manages disease associated with chronic-wound care, is accused of financial wrongdoing in a lawsuit that the U.S. Department of Justice recently joined as a plaintiff. 

 Spectrian, Sunnyvale, Calif., dove 1 15/16 to 8 3/8 after warning that it expects to record a loss of $1.75 to $1.95 a share for its fourth quarter, which ended March 31. The loss is far worse than the 75-cent deficit that analysts expected. 

 Big Entertainment gained 5 5/16 to 21 11/16 after the Boca Raton, Fla., publisher and marketer of comic books agreed to joint-venture ownership of hollywood.com with CBS. Big Entertainment recently agreed to acquire hollywood.com from Times Mirror in a transaction expected to close during the second quarter. In exchange for a 35% ownership position, CBS will provide hollywood.com, a provider of movie information on the Internet, with $100 million of promotion and other services. 

 (END) DOW JONES NEWS  04-12-99 

 11:44 AM 

Document dj00000020010826dv4c023wo




 Dollar/yen back above 120, euro/yen testing lows. 

196 words
12 April 1999
10:46
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 0846 GMT - Dlr/yen off session troughs below 120, weighed by euro/yen sales. Euro/yen sets Mon low below 130. Dlr/yen next downside target 119.60, upside seen limited by offers in 120.80-121 area. Dollar undermined by expected drop in U.S. equity prices later Mon on Compaq profit-warning made after Dow close on Friday. Euro/dollar steadies below peaks. 

 * Yen weighed by Nikkei two pct drop. Nikkei hurt by news of Kokumin Bank failure, expected Dow drop. June S&P futures contract indicate around 100 point loss for Dow at open. 

 * Euro/Swedish crown boosted to highest since late March on reports of threatened withdrawal by Swedish companies from Sweden if government fails to boost growth. 

 * Concern about euro propspects related to euro zone growth and Balkan conflict. 

 * Japan's Keidanren said Monday the government would need to implement a supplementary budget if conditions worsen in the second half of fiscal year 1999/2000. 

 * ECB's Issing said decision to cut rates last week will increase pressure on euro zone governments to enact structural economic reforms. 

 . 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4c037wb




 Belgian Bel-20 negative in quiet early trade. 

304 words
12 April 1999
10:49
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 BRUSSELS, April 12 (Reuters) - The Bel-20 blue chip index was slightly negative in quiet early trade after a profit warning from U.S. computer maker Compaq  failed to prompt an expected tumble, traders said. 

 By 0845 the index was down 0.21 percent at 3,323.55 points, after opening down 0.29 percent at 3,320.85 points. 

 "I'm a bit surprised it's so quiet - this morning, after the (Compaq) profit warning I thought we would be down much more," said one trader. 

 He said the market's muted reaction on Friday to a euro zone interest rate cut indicated investors were very cautious at the moment. 

 * Chemicals group Tessenderlo  was down 1.7 percent at 46.20 euros and cement company CBR  was off 1.42 percent at 86.60 euros, both stocks erasing the gain they made on Friday's amid favourable sentiment on cyclical shares. 

 * Holding company Cobepa  was off 1.35 percent at 65.90 euros, cutting gains made last week as investors focussed on the historically high discounts to net asset value of some holding companies. 

 * Bank Dexia  was the highest percentage gainer among the blue chips, up 0.68 percent at 147.00 euros. 

 One trader said the stock was benefiting from institutional investors switching from KBC Bancassurance  because KBC was still relatively expensive despite a recent downtrend. 

 KBC was down 1.41 percent at 63.00 euros. 

 * Outside the index, building products company Koramic  was up 2.25 percent at 45.40 euros. The company said on Monday it had acquired the roof tile and brick business of Swiss holding company ZZ Holding. ((Brussels newsroom +32 2 287 6812, fax +32 2 230 7710, belgium.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4c037w7




 Dollar/yen sets new low, euro/dollar near Mon peak. 

184 words
12 April 1999
10:43
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 0830 GMT - Dlr/yen sets new session low just above 120, sustained break below clears way for 119.60, upside seen capped by offers in 120.80-121.00 area. Dollar undermined by expected drop in U.S. equity prices later Mon on Compaq profit-warning after Dow close on Friday. Euro/dollar near session high of $1.0840. Yen weighed by Nikkei two pct drop. 

 * Nikkei hurt by news of Kokumin Bank failure and expected Dow drop. June S&P futures contract indicate around 100 point loss for Dow at open. 

 * Nikkei hurt by news of Kokumin Bank failure and expected Dow drop. June S&P futures contract indicate around 100 point loss for Dow at open. 

 * Australian dollar higher, near session peak on firm commodity, gold and oil prices. Overnight A$ sets highest level since late March. 

 * Sterling sets 1-1/2-wk peak vs dlr, underpinned by Ford Motor Company takeover of British Company Kwik-Fit. 

 * Euro/Swedish crown boosted to highest since late March. 

 . 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4c037aw




 Dollar/yen probes Monday low, euro/dlr steady. 

130 words
12 April 1999
10:40
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 0802 GMT - Dlr/yen near session lows, bid support cited around 120.35, upside seen capped by offers in 120.80-121.00 area. Euro/dlr firm above $1.08. Dlr worried by U.S. equity prices after Compaq issues profit-warning after Dow close on Friday. Yen weighed by Nikkei two pct drop on news of Kokumin Bank failure and expected Dow drop. 

 * Euro/Swiss franc break above 1.60 seen as bullish signal for cross. 

 * Australian dollar higher, near session peak on firm commodity, gold and oil prices. Overnight A$ sets highest level since late March. 

 * Sterling sets 1-1/2-wk peak vs dlr, underpinned by Ford Motor Company takeover of British Company Kwik-Fit. 

 . 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4c037av




 FX IN EUROPE-Dollar pressured by U.S. stock worry. 

531 words
12 April 1999
12:13
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, April 12 (Reuters) - The dollar was soft early in Europe on Monday, pressured by concern that a fall in U.S. stocks could hurt the country's economy and prompt foreign investors to quit its markets. 

 Such worries were sparked after a profit warning issued on Friday by U.S. computer-maker Compaq  drove the June S&P futures contract down about 16 points, pointing to a decline of more than 100 points in the Dow Jones Industrial Average at its open. 

 "This is the doomsday scenario for the market," said Michael Lewis, economist at Deutsche Bank in London. 

 "The first effect of a downturn in U.S. stocks would be that foreigners would get out but it would also have a wealth effect for U.S. consumers and therefore on growth." 

 The dollar was pinned down at 120.41/46 yen at 0724 GMT, close to the bottom of the trading range which has confined it for more than a week and from 121.02/12 late in Europe on Friday. Chartists said a sustained break below 120.30 would clear the way for losses to 119.60. 

 The euro took advantage of the dollar's weakness to climb to $1.0836/43 from $1.0780/82 at the Friday's European close. However, Deutsche's Lewis said it could struggle to top $1.09. 

 Lee Ferridge, head of global currency strategy at Rabobank, said the euro was likely to benefit more than the yen from concern about the U.S. stock market. 

 "The dollar has been strengthening against the euro because of the strength of the U.S. economy and the weakness of euroland so euro/dollar is going to be a better barometer of nervousness about U.S. stocks," he said. 

 Ferridge said he was optimistic about the euro's prospects this week, particularly as it had rebounded to levels it had been at before the European Central Bank cut its refinancing rate to a lower-than-expected 2.5 percent on Thursday. 

 The British pound also gained against the broadly weaker dollar, rising to $1.6168/78, a cent higher than late in Europe on Friday. 

 It was also bolstered by speculation that sterling demand could be generated by U.S. automaker Ford Motor Company's bid for Kwik-Fit Holdings Plc, Europe's largest automobile reparing chain, analysts said. The offer, agreed to by Kwik-Fit, values the British group at around 1.01 billion pounds. 

 The euro ceded less ground to sterling, trading at 66.94/01 pence at 0756 GMT from 67.07/09 at the close of European trading on Friday. 

 Few major economic indicators were scheduled for release on Monday apart from German industrial production figures for January and February. Also on the agenda for Monday is the speech Bundesbank President Hans Tietmeyer is to deliver at 1700 GMT in Stockholm. Meanwhile, German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder is to speak before an extraordinary congress of the German Social Democratic Party at 0900 GMT. 

 ((Swaha Pattanaik, London newsroom +44 171 542 6284, swaha.pattanaik@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4c036qr




 FX IN EUROPE-Dlr losses curbed as Dow stabilises. 

613 words
12 April 1999
16:47
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, April 12 (Reuters) - Dollar losses were stemmed in afternoon trade on Monday as expectations of huge losses for U.S. equity prices failed to materialise, analysts said. 

 During the session the dollar touched a 1-1/2-week low against the yen and matched lows set against the euro last week as traders tried to price in a more than 100-point drop in the Dow Jones Industrial Average. By 1430 GMT the Dow had recovered most of its early losses. 

 "The dollar has steadied with the Dow, but it is still under pressure," said Nick Shamim, bond and currency strategist at Norinchukin International Plc. 

 "Dollar weakness this morning was based on expected weakness in U.S. equity prices, purely on the Compaq profit-warning." 

 After the close of trading on Friday, U.S. company Compaq Computer Corp said first quarter profits and revenues would fall short of Wall Street estimates. 

 The Compaq warning provoked a flurry of long dollar position squaring during European trade which saw the currency pair touch a low of 119.74. By 1444 GMT the dollar was at 120.17/19, down from 121.02/12 late Friday. Euro/dollar was quoted at $1.0840/42 from $1.0780/82 late Friday. 

 Shamim said much of the short-covering in euro/dollar was based on the realisation that interest rates in the euro zone, after last week's cut to 2.50 percent, would be on hold for the forseeable future. 

 Comments by ECB chief Wim Duisenberg last week saying the decision to cut by 50 basis points was made to remove any expectation of another cut soon also assisted the euro. 

 "But for the euro to make any headway above $1.09, the euro zone economy is going to have to show signs of improvement," a trader said. "I don't believe we'll see those for a while." 

 The euro's exchange rate against the yen hovered around 130 for most of the session, after an early sell-off from a European corporate, traders said. 

 Euro/yen was quoted as low as as 129.94 from a Monday high at 130.81 versus 130.45/60 late Friday. 

 Looking ahead, analysts await U.S. March consumer prices and retail sales data due on Tuesday. 

 "If these are weaker-than-expected, we may see further dollar weakness," Shamim said. 

 The Swedish crown dropped to a 2-1/2-week low versus the euro. 

 By 1511 GMT euro/Swedish crown was at 8.9710/60, down from a high of 9.0319 set after Swedish Finance Minister Eric Asbrink confirmed his resignation. 

 "Asbrink's resignation is going to hurt the Swedish crown a lot," a London trader said, adding that a possible target for euro/Swedish crown in the medium term could be 10. 

 Asbrink cited lack of support from Prime Minister Goran Persson as a reason behind his resignation. 

 Sterling rose to a 1-1/2-week peak of $1.6185. It was last quoted around $1.6130/37 from $1.6068/78 in late European trade on Friday. 

 The pound was assisted in its rise against the dollar by an agreed one billion pound takeover offer for UK-based auto-services firm Kwik-Fit Holdings Plc by U.S. carmaker Ford. 

 Analysts said short-covering on short sterling/dollar positions after last week's 25 basis point cut in British interest rates also helped sterling up. 

 "The expectation is that was probably the last (British) rate cut for a while," Shamim said. 

 ((Pratima Desai, London newsroom +44 44 171 542 2737)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4c036qb




 FX IN EUROPE - Dollar dented by U.S. stock worry. 

507 words
12 April 1999
13:36
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, April 12 (Reuters) - The dollar weakened across the board on Monday, hitting 1-1/2-week lows against the yen amid concern U.S. stocks were heading for a fall. 

 A profit warning issued on Friday by U.S. computer maker Compaq drove the June S&P futures contract down more than 15 points, indicating the Dow Jones Industrial Average could slide by more than 100 points at its open later. 

 This prompted concern that foreign investors could quit U.S. markets and sell dollars in the process. It also sparked concern that it could dent consumer confidence and therefore take a toll on U.S. growth. 

 "As far as today is concerned, it's going to be a difficult period for the dollar since there is concern about what the Dow will do this afternoon," said Jeremy Hawkins, chief economic adviser at Bank of America in London. 

 The dollar was at 119.82/92 yen at 1105 GMT, near the session low of 119.74 and from 121.02/12 late in Europe on Friday. Chartists said the next support level would be 119.60. 

 The euro climbed to $1.0861/66 from Friday's late European $1.0780/82 levels. Deutsche Bank economist Michael Lewis said it could struggle to top $1.09. 

 Bank of America's Hawkins said he did not expect the dollar's weakness would to survive into Tuesday trading given the release of U.S. retail sales data tomorrow was likely to underpin the U.S. currency. 

 "Besides, even if you're wary about holding dollars, there's no other particularly attractive major currency," he added. 

 In Sweden, the resignation of Finance Minister Erik Asbrink caused an already slipping Swedish crown to slide further. 

 The crown weakened as far as 9.0319 per euro, its weakest since March 25, in the wake of the news. It was at 9.0130/89 at the European midsession from 8.9295/45 late on Friday. 

 "Asbrink's resignation is going to hurt the Swedish crown a lot," said a London trader, adding it could soften to 10 crowns. 

 Sterling climbed to a 1-1/2-week high of $1.6175 from $1.6068/78 in late European trade on Friday. 

 It was assisted in its rise by an agreed takeover of British automobile repairers Kwik-Fit Holdings Plc  by U.S. car manufacturer Ford Motor Company in a deal valued at one billion pounds. 

 Euro/sterling was up a touch at 67.21/28 pence from 67.07/09 pence late on Friday. 

 German industrial output figures dropped a seasonally adjusted 3.4 percent month-on-month in February from a 2.9 percent rise in January. Analysts said the figures more or less cancelled each other out, and the euro was little affected. 

 Bundesbank President Hans Tietmeyer is scheduled to deliver a speech at 1700 GMT in Stockholm. ((Michael Steen, London newsroom +44 171 542 7718)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4c036po




 Stocks hit new highs on bargain hunting, bonds firm. 

 By Richard Chang 
568 words
13 April 1999
00:37
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, April 12 (Reuters) - Stocks surged to record highs on Monday, as investors snapped up bargains after a sell-off sparked by a profit warning from technology giant Compaq Computer Corp. 

 Bonds closed slightly higher and the dollar fell ahead of key inflation and retail sales data due Tuesday. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average ended up 165.67 points, or 1.63 percent, at 10,339.51, rebounding from a 77-point drop early in the day. 

 It was the fourth time in the past six sessions that the Dow set a record-high close. 

 In the broader market, advancing issues led declines 1,670 to 1,306 on active volume of 806.8 million on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Other major market measures set records as well. 

 The Nasdaq composite index ended up 5.77 points, or 0.22 percent, at 2,598.74, gaining despite some big drops in the technology group that had pushed the index down more than 2.38 percent early in the day. 

 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, a broader market gauge, gained 10.29 points, or 0.76 percent, to 1,358.64. 

 It was the fifth day in six sessions that the Nasdaq and the S&P set record-high closes. 

 "It's going to take more than a whack to kill this bull," said Trude Latimer, an independent stock broker in Charlottesville, Va. "No one believes when the market comes down that it's anything but a buying opportunity." 

 The whack to Wall Street's bull market came in the form of an announcement on Friday evening from Compaq, the world's largest personal computer maker, that its earnings will fall well below analysts' expectations. 

 Compaq's shares tumbled 6-7/8 points to 24-1/16. But the overall market wound up bouncing back as investors viewed the warning as a cause for concern about the PC industry, and not the overall market, analysts said. 

 "We're still at the early phase of the earnings period, and my suspicion is that 'hope springs eternal' still reigns," said Joseph Barthel, chief investment strategist at Fahnestock & Co. 

 "It's too early to assume the Compaq disappointment is an indicator of bad earnings across the board," he said. 

 Optimism about earnings was reflected in shares of financial services companies, which gained amid news that profits at securities firm Bear Stearns Cos. Inc. rose to a record $204 million in its fiscal third quarter. 

 Small capitalisation stocks, which have long trailed the overall market, rallied for the second straight session. The group's benchmark Russell 2000 index gained 6.46 points, or 1.59 percent, to 412.32. 

 The benchmark 30-year Treasury bond rose 6/32, or $1.875 on a $1,000 bond. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction to the price, fell to 5.45 percent from 5.46 percent late Friday. 

 The dollar late Monday stood at 120.27 yen, down from 120.87 yen on Friday. The euro rose to $1.0819 from $1.0795. 

 Overseas, London's FTSE 100 closed 31.6 points or 0.5 percent lower at 6,441.2. In Tokyo, the Nikkei 225 average closed down 2.07 percent or 348.23 points at 16,507.40. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4c036n2




 DIARY-Today in U.S. Treasuries-Monday, April 12. 

171 words
12 April 1999
13:57
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

    ALL TIMES EDT 

    ECONOMIC INDICATORS 

    Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago releases its Chicago Fed 

 Midwest Manufacturing Index (CFMMI) for February, 1200. The 

 index read 129.6 in the prior month. 

    MARKETS 

    In early trading, the benchmark U.S. 30-year bond was up 

 8/32 at 97-04/32 to yield 5.44 percent. 

    Dollar at 1.0872/77 euro and 119.80/9.90 yen. 

    COMEX June gold trading $2.30 higher at $285.70 an ounce. 

    STOCKS 

    Wall St stocks are likely to open lower after Compaq 

 Computer Corp.'s profit-warning late Friday. The market is 

 expected to take its cue from the release of first-quarter 

 earnings from a batch of companies. 

 PRESIDENT 

 WASHINGTON - Clinton to Louisiana to visit Barksdale Air 

 Force Base where B-52 bombers are based. 

    WASHINGTON - Meets leaders of Congress on Kosovo, 1730; 

 attends Millennium lecture, 1930. 

    CONGRESS 

    WASHINGTON - House and Senate reconvene. 

    (( -- N.A. Treasury Desk, 212-859-1660 )). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4c035xa




 Belgian Bel-20 ends off lows as Dow recovers. 

350 words
12 April 1999
16:16
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 BRUSSELS, April 12 (Reuters) - The Bel-20 blue chip index closed down but off its lows as U.S. stocks cut earlier losses on Monday. 


The Belgian index ended down 0.21 percent at 3,323.59 points. In New York the Dow Jones average	  was barely changed after earlier dropping half a percent, as expectations of a drop of more than one percent at the open proved overly pessimistic.


 The New York index had been tipped to open sharply lower after computer maker Compaq  issued a profit warning late on Friday. 

 European markets were mixed, but broadly off earlier lows. Traders said the Belgian market was quiet, with barely one million shares traded. 

 * Car importer D'Ieteren  closed down 2.99 percent at 418.10 euros, although just 668 shares changed hands. 

 * Non-ferrous metals group Union Miniere  ended off 2.77 percent at 31.60 euros, moving below its range of recent sessions, when cyclical stocks were largely in favour. Metals prices including zinc, Union Miniere's main source of income, were bearish on the London Metal Exchange. 

 * Retailer Colruyt  eased 1.99 percent to 641.50 euros, paring last week's gains made after its Dolmen computers unit made an acquisition which was seen by some as a step towards a possible spin-off. But fellow retailer GIB  rose 2.65 percent to 35.98 euros. 

 * Financial holding company Almanij  was down 2.25 percent at 65.10 euros, while its main holding KBC Bancassurance ended off 1.49 percent at 62.95 euros. Traders said institutional investors were still selling KBC stock after its 1999 earnings outlook, published in March, was less optimistic than some expectations, causing a downgrade amid comments KBC had become expensive versus its peers. 

 * Outside the index Koramic Building Products  ended up 3.83 percent at 46.10 euros after it bought a Swiss roof tile and brick operation. ((Alistair Thomson, Brussels newsroom +32 2 287 6810, fax +32 2 230 7710, belgium.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4c0350k




 BOND MARKETS-Hold slight gains as Dow defies fears. 

509 words
12 April 1999
16:47
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, April 12 (Reuters) - Major government bonds were higher on Monday in a general bullish tone, but gains were limited as an expected sharp fall in U.S. stocks failed to materialise. 

 Euro zone government debt was holding on to modest gains on equity weakness but flows were light, traders said. 

 U.S. Treasuries were slightly higher but off highs as fears of a sharp fall in the Dow Jones stock index, triggered by a profit warning by computer maker Compaq, appeared unfounded. Any sustained drop in stocks might prompt shifting into bonds. 

 "The flight to quality concern that so dominated Asian trading and was not challenged in London has kind of faded away," said Charles Quigley, bond salesman at Chase in London. 

 He said there had been some profit-taking but that this was mainly speculative. 

 Euro government debt markets continued to digest the impact of last week's spate of rate cuts. 

 "Markets generally do not have a reason to fall at the moment. There is a bullish tone out there, obviously helped by the rate moves last week and there is a perception at the moment that there is value in core markets at current levels," said Padhraic Garvey, senior bond strategist at ABN Amro in Amsterdam. 

 However, some euro debt traders said last week's surprise rate cut by the European Central Bank had left the market unsure of where it was going next. 

 "The rate cut last week left a bit of a vacuum...it has all happpened already. It would take very sharp moves in economic data to make the markets expect anything new," said Elisabeth Afseth, fixed income analyst at Williams de Broe. 

 Swedish debt yields were sharply higher after the surprise resignation of Finnace Minister Erik Asbrink. The appointment of Bosse Ringholm, head of the National Labour Market Board, to replace him, failed to reassure financial markets. 

 The 10-year bond yield rose to 4.25 percent from 4.17 percent. The spread over German long Bunds widened to 46 basis points from 33 points. 

 This is how major world bond markets looked at 1536 GMT on 

 Monday 

     UNITED STATES - 

 Futures: June T-bonds 123-06/32, up  07/32 


	   September Eurodollars 95.010, up 0.015



Cash: Long bond at 97-07/32, up 11/32, yield 5.439 pct



    EURO -



Futures: June Bunds on Eurex 116.08, up 0.31



	   June Euribor 97.370, up 0.005



Cash:    10-year Bund 101.63, up 0.29 yield 3.801 pct



    BRITAIN -



Futures: June Long gilts on LIFFE 118.28, down 0.02



	   June short sterling 94.870, down 0.060



Cash:    10-year gilt 134.78, down 0.06 yield 4.467 pct



    JAPAN -



Futures: June JGBs on LIFFE 134.03, up 0.05 from Tokyo close



	   June Euroyen in Tokyo 99.820, unchanged



  ((Nigel Stephenson, International Bonds Desk +44 171 542 6701,



Fax +44 171 542 5285, uk.governmentbonds.news@reuters.com)).



(C) Reuters Limited 1999.


Document lba0000020010908dv4c034u3




 Emerging debt weaker on Compaq warning, Kosovo. 

418 words
12 April 1999
13:03
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, April 12 (Reuters) - War in the Balkans and a profit warning by the world's top personal computer maker Compaq that is expected to drag down Wall St undermined emerging market debt prices in thin trade on Monday. 

 Growing tension in Venezuela between President Hugo Chavez and Congress over special powers he wants to enact wide-ranging economic reforms also weighed on the oil-producing country. 

 "Weakness in stocks will probably only really hit when New York opens, Yeltsin's comments last week are still hurting emerging europe, and there's uncertainty in Venezuela," said one trader at a U.S. bank. 

 Compaq's warning late on Friday that first quarter profits would be less than half Wall Street's expectations set European stock markets off on an uneasy start to the week. A tumble in S&P index futures indicated a 130 point sell-off for the Dow when New York opens. 

 "The Compaq profit warning is probably more relevant for Latin prices than Eastern European, but flows are small as the market's trading off external developments," said another trader. 


Brazil's C bond		 , the most liquid Latin credit traded in London, was off 1/4 from New York's close at 65-3/8 bid.



Traders said weakness in emerging bond prices continued to spill over from New York on Friday when Russian President Boris Yeltsin told NATO not to push Russia into the Yugoslav crisis.



The United States later said it had been assured by Moscow that Russia would stay out of the Yugoslav conflict and had not targeted nuclear weapons on NATO countries.



Still, investors took the opportunity to take profits.



Bulgarian IABs		 ) stood down 3/4 at 66-3/4 bid midday in London, while Russian 2005 and 2018 globals		 ) were off 5/8 and 3/4 repsectively at 27.5 and 28.5.



In Venezuela, traders said they were focusing on the stand-off between Chavez and the opposition-led Congress



Chavez said on Friday he would declare a state of emergency in coming days if Congress rejected his request for wider legislative powers. Last week, he returned economic reform legislation to Congress saying it was too limited.



Venezuelan DCBs		, which had gained some 10 points since the start of the year largely on the back of firmer oil prices, stood down 3/4 at 68-3/4.



((John Paul Rathbone, emerging markets unit, 44 171 542 5110)).



(C) Reuters Limited 1999.


Document lba0000020010908dv4c034k4




 Dlr/yen hits 1-1/2-wk low, euro/Swedish crown up. 

119 words
12 April 1999
11:53
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 1041 GMT - Dlr/yen hits 1-1/2 week low, euro/dollar choppy near new Monday high. Dlr weighed by expectations Dow will open around 100 points lower after Compaq profit-warning made on Friday after Dow close. Swedish crown sets fresh 2-1/2-week low versus euro after FinMin Asbrink confirms resignation. Euro/yen steady around 130 after early sell-off. 

 * Asbrink cites lack of support from Prime Minister Goran Persson as reason for resignation. 

 * June S&P futures contract down. Eurobourses generally soft. 

 * The Yugoslav parliament voted overwhelmingly on Monday to join the loose union between Russia and Belarus. 

 . 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4c034ew




 Dlr probes lows vs yen, euro, Swedish crown weak. 

145 words
12 April 1999
11:18
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 1009 GMT - Dollar/yen hovering near Monday low, euro/dlr testing upside and session peak. Dlr weighed by expectations of Dow losses at open after Compaq profit-warning on Friday made after Dow close. Traders say Swedish crown set to test 2-1/2-wk trough vs euro after Swedish Finance Minister Asbrink confirms he resigning. Euro/yen around 130. 

 * Asbrink said he resigning as feels no longer has support of Prime Minister in economic policy. 

 * June S&P futures contract indicate around 100 point loss for Dow at open. 

 * Euro/Swedish crown boosted in early trade by reports of threatened withdrawal by Swedish companies from Sweden if government fails to boost growth. 

 * Euro zone Q4 1998 GDP up 0.2 pct qtr/qtr versus 0.7 pct in Q3 1998. 

 . 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4c0349j




 Dlr soft as market eyes Dow, Swedish crown weak. 

122 words
12 April 1999
12:39
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 1130 GMT Dlr/yen holds above 1-1/2-wk trough, but could test 119.60 support later, traders said. Euro/dlr firm looking for a break above last week's high above $1.0880. Dlr undermined by expectations of Dow drop at open after Compaq profit-warning late last Friday. Euro/Swedish crown just below 2-1/2-wk high set after Swedish FinMin Asbrink resigns. 

 * June S&P future indicates more than 100 point drop for Dow at open. Eurobourses soft. 

 * Traders express worries about earnings from other "high-tech" U.S. companies. 

 * Asbrink cites lack of support from Prime Minister Persson as reason for resignation. 

 . 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4c0348e




 FOCUS-Compaq  profit warning  knocks stocks, dlr. 

 By Naomi Wimborne-Idrissi 
400 words
12 April 1999
12:16
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, April 12 (Reuters) - A profit warning by Compaq , the world's number one personal computer maker, sent jitters through currency and stock markets on Monday, hitting the dollar and technology shares and boosting European government bond prices. 

 The dollar softened across the board as a 17.20 points drop in the June S&P futures was seen indicating a fall of about 130 points in the Dow Jones Industrial Average later. 

 The greenback dipped to around 120.30/40 yen in early European trading from 120.85/90 in New York late on Friday, with the euro above $1.08 and sterling at its highest this month against the dollar at around 1.6150-55. 

 A brief statement from Houston-based Compaq after the U.S. markets closed on Friday estimated earnings per share for the first quarter of the year at 15 cents compared with analysts' forecasts around 31 cents. 

 "This is going to be a tough thing for tech stocks but keep in mind that in some ways Compaq and Oracle for quite a while have been in a world of their own," said Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer of First Albany Corp. 

 European government bonds started firmer as U.S. Treasuries gained in Asia because of the slide in S&P futures. In Frankfurt the 10-year bund moved up 0.37 points to 116.14 by 0753 gmt. 

 Germany's electronic Xetra DAX share index, the first to open in Europe, fell for the first time this month to trade about one percent below Friday's close. 

 The Xetra DAX had gained 1.3 percent on Friday after the previous day's European Central Bank interest rate cut. 

 Monday's weak opening followed lower share prices across Asia. 

 Tokyo's key Nikkei average slid more than two percent by the close on Monday, as Compaq's cut in its earnings forecast watered down Tokyo's recent buying euphoria. 

 Japanese investors were waiting to see if the announcement would have any serious impact on New York stocks. 


The Nikkei 225 average	   closed down 2.07 percent or 348.23 points at 16,507.40.



The Nikkei's decline added to downward pressure in Hong Kong, where investors were already looking to take profits after last week's strong rally.



(C) Reuters Limited 1999.


Document lba0000020010908dv4c03443




 Dollar soft early in Europe, focus on U.S. stocks. 

86 words
12 April 1999
10:30
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 0648 GMT - Dollar softer across board amid concern about U.S. stocks. June S&P futures contract down 17.20 points after Fri's profit warning from U.S. computer maker Compaq, seen indicating Dow drop of about 130 points. Dlr/yen tests prop at 120.30/40, break clears way for 119.60. Euro/dlr bolstered above $1.08. Sterling at highest this mth vs dlr, $1.6160/70 caps. 

 . 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4c033yt




 Dlr/yen near session trough, Swedish crown slips. 

145 words
12 April 1999
10:52
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 0939 GMT - Dlr testing session lows versus euro and yen. U.S. Unit undermined by expectations of Dow losses at open after Compaq profit-warning on Friday made after Dow close. Swedish crown slips further to fresh 2-1/2-week low versus euro after Sweden's Finance Ministry said FinMin Asbrink to resign. Euro/yen around 130. 

 . 

 * German February industry output falls 3.4 pct mth/mth from a 2.9 pct rise in Jan. 

 * June S&P futures contract indicate around 100 point loss for Dow at open. 

 * Euro/Swedish crown boosted in early trade by reports of threatened withdrawal by Swedish companies from Sweden if government fails to boost growth. * New Zealand dollar approaching 6-week high seen earlier after break above key $0.5400-05 triggers buy orders. 

 . 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4c033rz




 Dollar/yen grappling with 120, euro/yen soft. 

136 words
12 April 1999
10:50
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 0923 GMT - Dlr/yen struggling to hold above 120, off lows seen after earlier euro/yen sell-off to below 130. Dlr/yen next downside target 119.60, upside seen limited by offers in 120.80-121 area. Dollar undermined by expected drop in U.S. equity prices later Mon on Compaq profit-warning made after Dow close on Friday. Euro/dollar explores upside. 

 * June S&P futures contract indicate around 100 point loss for Dow at open. 

 * Euro/Swedish crown boosted to highest since late March on reports of threatened withdrawal by Swedish companies from Sweden if government fails to boost growth. 

 * New Zealand dollar off 6-week highs seen earlier after break above key $0.5400-05 triggers stop-loss orders. 

 . 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4c033re




 Compaq's  profit warning  surprisingly ignored by the market 

 By BRUCE MEYERSON 
AP Business Writer
545 words
12 April 1999
22:08
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 1999.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.

 NEW YORK (AP) - You had all the perfect ingredients for a rotten day on Wall Street: a warning of weak profits from a big name in computers, a weekend to worry about it, and a pricey stock market ripe for profit-taking. 

 After some early quivers, however, investors delivered an odd verdict Monday. They pummeled the bringer of bad news, Houston-based Compaq Computer, but sent three major indexes to new records. 

 Shares of Compaq dove 22 percent following late Friday's announcement by the personal computer maker that its first-quarter earnings per share would amount to just half of what most Wall Street analysts were forecasting. 

 The discouraging news weighed down other computer stocks, but the Dow Jones industrial average shook off an early slide and shot 165 points higher to a record 10,339. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index also closed at a record. 

 More conspicuously, the technology-laden Nasdaq composite index wiped out an early 2.5 percent plunge and set a new high too. 

 Considering how much hope and hype has been crammed into cyber-centric stock rally of recent months, that might seem a blissfully ignorant response to a warning from the No. 1 maker of personal computers. 

 However, few observers condemned the market as cavalier or headstrong for shrugging off the Compaq announcement. 

 Actually, had the news come from investor favorites like IBM, Intel or Microsoft - companies seen as better barometers of the technology business - Monday's selling might have lasted more than a few minutes. 

 Instead, Wall Street quickly decided that Compaq's weak results had a lot more to do with Compaq than the industry or the overall economy. 

 "Everything points to the fact that this is company-specific problem," said John Shaughnessy, chief investment strategist for Advest Inc., noting that PC price wars have are particularly rough on Compaq, which relies more heavily on store sales than telephone and Internet sales. 

 Dell and Gateway, by contrast, don't sell PCs through retailers, eliminating the need to coordinate with vendors and give them a cut of the profits. 

 Compaq is "one of the few indirect sellers, one of the few high-cost operators," said Shaughnessy. "Prices are coming down, and they can't get their costs down fast enough." 

 Another factor that may be holding back Compaq, analysts said, is last year's acquisition of computer maker Digital Equipment, a merger that hasn't gone as smoothly as hoped. 

 Although rival PC makers took some lumps on Monday, the damage was rather contained compared with drubbing given Compaq's shares, which fell $6.81 1/4 to $24.12 1/2 on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Shares of Dell, which last week told analysts that its business has been on target in recent months, fell 4 percent, or $1.75 to $41.82 1/2 in Nasdaq trading. 

 IBM, which last week announced a major foray into direct PC sales from its Web site, fell $2.87 1/2 per share to $183.43 3/4 on the NYSE. Gateway's shares fell 2.87 1/2 to 69.87 1/2 , also on the NYSE. 

Rush

Document aprs000020010830dv4c04b0c




 Compaq stock slides 23 percent 

202 words
12 April 1999
15:50
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 1999.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.

 HOUSTON (AP) - Shares of Compaq Computer Corp. tumbled 23 percent in early trading today following the company's stunning disclosure late Friday that first quarter earnings would fall far short of Wall Street forecasts. 

 Houston-based Compaq, the world's largest personal computer maker, said it anticipates reporting a profit of 15 cents a share on revenue of $9.4 billion for the quarter ended March 31. Analysts surveyed by First Call had been predicting a profit of 31 cents a share. 

 The company, which will disclose first quarter profits April 21, blamed industry price-cutting and weaker sales for its financial malaise. 

 Compaq shares were down $7.18 3/4 to $23.75 in the first 30 minutes of trading on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 The profit warning came in advance of the quarterly crush of earnings reports from U.S. companies that starts this week. 

 Compaq's announcement stunned many analysts who thought the company's profits were on track, and might be boosted by the integration of Digital Equipment, based in Maynard, Mass., which Compaq bought last summer. 

 Compaq officials said sales were $600 million lower-than-expected in the first quarter. 

Rush

Document aprs000020010830dv4c0479l




TODAY'S MARKET
BUSINESS
TODAY'S MARKET; DOW UP; TECH FEARS HOLD BACK NASDAQ

GREG HEBERLEIN   
SEATTLE TIMES BUSINESS REPORTER
428 words
12 April 1999
The Seattle Times
SETL
FINAL
C1
English
Copyright 1999, The Seattle Times Company  All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

Investors ignored a high-tech warning and catapulted stocks into record territory for the fourth time in six sessions.

The Dow Jones industrial average stampeded 165.67 points, or 1.6 percent, to 10,339.51. That was the fourth time since last Monday the Dow posted a gain of more than 1 percent. The Nasdaq composite index, hobbled by high-tech fears, rose just 5.76 points, or 0.2 percent, to 2,598.81.

Before the market opened, analysts feared Compaq Computer's warning of a lower-than-expected profit would undermine trading. It did, knocking 75 points off the Dow in about 20 minutes. But then the Dow turned up, by a lot.

Internet stocks soared to records. The biggest was Go2Net, a Seattle operator of various Web sites. With consolidation and stock splits on investors' minds, the shares rocketed $32, or 22 percent, to $179.50.

RealNetworks struck a deal with IBM to provide technology for Internet music, and wasn't far behind Go2Net, adding $39.50, or 19 percent, to $247.

InfoSpace.com, a data provider to the Internet from Redmond, found a spot on the same bandwagon, climbing $15.938 to $126.

Several recently popular stocks met renewed interest. Bothell's SonoSite, preparing to sell a portable ultrasound-imaging unit, jumped $1.875 to $21.125. Icos, a Bothell biotech, rose $3.688 to $39.875 as it moves closer to product approval.

Expeditors International gained $3.50 to $54.813. The company said it knew of no reason for the gain, but Expeditors has a habit of topping market expectations.

Compaq's problems spilled over to Northwest companies.

Microsoft, whose software business would be affected by a computer-sales slowdown, fell $1.25 to $93. Micron Technology, a Boise maker of chips for computers, retreated $3.125 to $44.75.

Investors also looked at asset plays, lifting the Weyerhaeuser timber fortunes $2.375 to $62.125.

A decision to award nearly a billion dollars to a California thrift because the government reneged on a takeover deal touched three stocks. Some said the payoff was too little.

Seattle's Washington Mutual, involved in several similar cases against the government, rose $1.063 cents to $41.563. Spokane's Sterling Savings slipped 75 cents to $15.75. The late Benjamin Franklin Savings of Portland, whose shares traded at 3 cents apiece three years ago, jumped 75 cents to $15.25 in late trading.

Document SETL000020090125dv4c018n0




 U.S. Tsys Hold Early Gains After Coupon Pass; 30Y Up 17/32 

383 words
12 April 1999
19:00
Capital Markets Report
CM
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--U.S. Treasurys remain higher in afternoon trading Monday as a coupon pass helped to support the long end of the market while stock market gains kept the short end in check. 

 At 1:40 p.m. EDT, the benchmark 30-year Treasury was at 97 11/32, up 17/32 from late Friday, to yield 5.43%. At the Chicago Board of Trade, the June bond futures contract was trading at 123-10, up 11/32. 

 Treasurys have been in positive territory throughout the session, boosted early by expectations of a sell-off in U.S. equity prices after Compaq Computer issued a profit warning late Friday. 

 After the closing bell Friday, Compaq warned that its first-quarter profit will be less than half the level Wall Street analysts expected. That spurred a modest flight-to-quality into Treasurys. 

 But equity prices have surged higher after some initial weakness and two-year notes have lost any safe-haven bid seen earlier. At 1:30 p.m. EDT, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 122 points at 10,297. 

 Meanwhile, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York bought $587 million of issues maturing Aug. 15, 2007, through Feb. 15, 2019. The coupon pass helped the long end of the market hold on to its early gains, traders said. 

 The Fed from time to time makes an outright purchase of notes and bonds - commonly known in the market as a coupon pass - to permanently add reserves to the banking system. 


"The equity downtrade that everyone was expecting on the heels of the
Compaq situation hasn't happened," said Salomon Brothers Managing
Director Charles Parkhurst. "The flight-to-quality trade is over because
the equity market is back up and the Fed bought the back-end," he said.
   4 1/2%   2-year 100        unchanged   4.87%
   4 3/4%   5-year  99  6/32  up   3/32   4.94%
   4 3/4%  10-year  97 30/32  up   8/32   5.03%
   5 1/4%  30-year  97 11/32  up  17/32   5.43%



2-30-Yr Yield Spread: 56 BPS Vs 60 BPS



(MORE) Dow Jones Newswires  04-12-99



1400EDT


1079 20715 4041

Document cm00000020010826dv4c00o9m




 N.Y. Early: Dlr Dn Vs Euro, Yen As Mkt Braces Stock Fall 

196 words
12 April 1999
13:00
Capital Markets Report
CM
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--The dollar continues to move lower against both the euro and yen early Monday in New York compared with levels five hours earlier, as market players brace for a potential selloff in U.S. stocks after Friday's surprise profit warning by Compaq Computer Corp. 

 Pointing to this lower open, the S&P Futures Index is trading 19.90 points lower. 

 Analysts said the euro is also somewhat buoyed by hopes that a NATO foreign ministers meeting Monday will yield more diplomatic efforts to solve the alliance's conflict with Yugoslavia over Kosovo. 

 Around 7:49 a.m. EDT (1149 GMT), the dollar was quoted at Y119.92, down from Y120.42 in London around 3:00 a.m. EDT (0700 GMT) and down from Y120.88 in New York late Friday. 

 The euro was trading at $1.0864, up from $1.0839 in London around 3:00 a.m. EDT (0700 GMT) and up from $1.0795 in New York late Friday. 

 (MORE) Dow Jones Newswires  04-12-99 

 0800EDT 

1049 1074 1846 1863 28038 4132 4164

Document cm00000020010826dv4c00o1a




 Aust stocks weaker near noon on US fall fear. 

589 words
12 April 1999
03:29
Australian Associated Press
AAP
English
(c) 1999 AAP Information Services Pty Ltd. All rights reserved. Available for personal use but not for sale or redistribution for compensation of any kind without the prior written permission of AAP.

 MELBOURNE, April 12, AAP - Fears of a sharp correction on Wall Street tonight has pushed the local stockmarket lower to noon. 

 The all ordinaries index was down 19.4 points to 3040.6 at 1145 AEST, with gains in the resources sector offsetting weakness in industrials. 

 Concern about the direction of the US stockmarket has been prompted by a profit warning by computer maker Compaq after Friday's US market close. 

 Compaq announced falling prices for personal computers had forced it to revise its forecast earnings back to half analysts' expectations. 

 That warning is expected to prompt high levels of profit taking in technology stocks which have experienced a boom in recent months. 

 "Compaq came out with a profit warning after trading and obviously the market is a bit nervous that the US might react," Sam Panetta of Shaw Stockbroking said. 

 "Our market is trading cautiously but it's probably not a bad performance. The market has done pretty well to recover and hopefully the Dow is not too bad tonight and the bullish trend will return," he said. 

 The all ordinaries index is seven points off its early low. 

 The all industrials index was down 42.6 points to 5475.5, with global media group News Corp down amidst expectations of a fall in its American Depository Receipts in US trading tonight, and on profit taking after sharp gains last week. 

 News Corp ordinary and preferred shares were 27 cents lower at $13.86 and $13.11 respectively. 

 Film and television production group Southern Star slumped 38 cents to $1.02 after warning its profit for the year to the end of March 1999 is likely to be down about 40 per cent. 

 Of the major banks, ANZ is the only to gain ground, adding two cents to be $11.77. 

 National Australia Bank is down 16 cents to $28.74, Westpac is 12 cents lower to $11.58 and Commonwealth has fallen 18 to $26.96. 

 Telstra slipped three cents to $8.22 and Cable and Wireless Optus dropped three to $3.52. 

 The all resources index was up 2.4 points at 1047.6, with Rio Tinto Ltd gaining 36 cents to $23.21. 

 Oil and gas producer Capital Energy is leading trade by volume, up six tenths of a cent to 1.1 cents on volume of 26 million. 

 Orogen Minerals was up three cents to $1.63 after announcing it will proceed with the acquisition of an additional five per cent of the Porgera joint venture in Papua New Guinea. 

 Beaconsfield Gold has jumped 12 cents to $1.20 as the gold index improves 3.1 points to 973.8 while the bullion price adds $US1.20 per ounce to $US281.70. 

 Lihir is up three cents to $1.35, Normandy has gained two cents to $1.25 and Delta has shed two cents to $2.03. 

 BHP shares are up seven cents to $13.82. 

 Turnover to noon was 153.87 million shares at a volume of 153.87 million shares at a value of $289.81 million, with 288 rises, 422 falls and 318 steady. 

 On the Sydney Futures Exchange, the June share price index contract was down 31 points to 3059 - an 18.4 point premium to the physical market. 

 (c) 1999 AAP Information Services Pty Ltd 

 All rights reserved. Available for personal use but not for sale or redistribution for compensation of any kind without the prior written permission of AAP. 

Document aap0000020020307dv4c0321q




STOCK TALK
BUSINESS
PATHOGENESIS RATED `ACCUMULATE' AFTER BIOTECH'S SHARP FALL

GREG HEBERLEIN   
TIMES BUSINESS REPORTER
502 words
11 April 1999
The Seattle Times
SETL
FINAL
G4
English
Copyright 1999, The Seattle Times Company  All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

Here are recent brokerage-house and investment-advisory opinions affecting Pacific Northwest stocks. The Seattle Times neither advises against nor recommends purchase of these stocks. Stock symbols and stock quotations are listed in parentheses, the latter reflecting prices when reports were issued. Ratings definitions vary, but most companies have five rankings, which are, from highest to lowest:

-- Strong buy, buy or highest.

-- Buy/accumulate, accumulate, mild buy, outperform, attractive or above average.

-- Neutral, hold, reasonably priced, average or market performer.

-- Mild sell, unattractive, below average or underperform.

-- Sell, lowest.

PathoGenesis (PGNS, $14.063) has suffered a precipitous drop in price, to as low as $11 from as high as $61 in the past year, writes Andrew Heyward of Seattle's Ragen MacKenzie brokerage. As a result of that and the company's cystic-fibrosis treatment, Heyward started coverage of the stock with an "accumulate" rating.

The Seattle company's treatment has been effective so far.

Heyward said the shares would be a good opportunity for high-risk investors as long as no clinical problems with the drug emerge.

(Report issued March 30.).

Airborne Freight (ABF, $31).

Analyst: Jamelah MacLean, U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray.

Recommendation: Accumulate.

Comment: Rating reduced from "strong buy" because of slower domestic growth. (4/5).

Amazon.com (AMZN, $149.625).

Analyst: Steve Weinstein, Pacific Crest Securities.

Recommendation: Strong buy.

Comment: Addition of the Pets.com stake and an auction site prompt rating upgrade from "buy." (3/30).

Cavanaughs Hospitality (CVH, $8.188).

Analyst (1): James Bellessa, Jr., D.A. Davidson.

Recommendation: Buy.

Comment: Target price over 18 months reduced to $13 from $15 as earnings forecasts have fallen. (3/31).

Analyst (2): Mary Fleckenstein, Ragen MacKenzie.

Recommendation: Buy.

Comment: Occupancy has softened. Quarterly profit forecast set at 5 cents a share. (3/30).

Columbia Banking System (COLB, $15).

Analyst: Thomas Carley, D.A. Davidson.

Recommendation: Outperform.

Comment: Company warning cuts quarterly profit forecast to 20 cents a share from 25 cents. (3/31).

Microsoft (MSFT, $93.188).

Analyst: Bob Toomey, U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray.

Recommendation: Strong buy.

Comment: Organizational changes make the story only more compelling. (3/30).

Plum Creek Timber (PCL, $28.563).

Analyst: Paula Nicholls, D.A. Davidson.

Recommendation: Outperform.

Comment: Despite delays, the conversion to a real-estate investment trust is a plus. (3/30).

Starbucks (SBUX, $30.75).

Analyst: Laura Richardson, Pacific Crest Securities.

Recommendation: Buy.

Comment: Target price is $38. Same-store sales have been good, although the comparison with April 1998 could be the toughest. (4/6).

Visio (VSIO, $26.25).

Analyst: Rob Owens/Steve Lidberg, Pacific Crest Securities.

Recommendation: Buy.

Comment: Visio shares should be bought now before earnings accelerate. (3/31).

Washington Federal (WFSL, $21.50).

Analyst: Bruce Harting, Lehman Brothers.

Recommendation: Outperform.

Comment: This is "the most efficient lender in the country." Loan production should offset higher prepayment rates. (3/31).

Greg Heberlein: 206-464-2267. E-mail: gheberlein@seattletimes.com

Document SETL000020090125dv4b018ip




 BUSINESS 
 4TH QUARTER STINGS SUN HEALTHCARE THE WIDER-THAN-EXPECTED LOSS CAUSED THE NURSING-HOME OPERATOR TO FAIL TO MEET THE TERMS OF A LOAN DEAL. 

 Dow Jones News Service 
361 words
10 April 1999
Orlando Sentinel
ORSE
METRO
C10
English
Copyright (c) 1999 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved.

 NEW YORK  - Nursing-home operator Sun Healthcare Group Inc. posted a wider-than-expected fourth-quarter loss because of reduced Medicare reimbursements and a decline in demand for services. 

 The loss will cause the company to fail to meet some of the terms of its loan agreements. The company said it is working with creditors to renegotiate the agreements. 

 For the quarter ended Dec. 31, Sun Healthcare lost $761.7 million, or $13.34 a share, compared with a loss of $18.4 million, or 39 cents a share, in the same period a year earlier. 

 The company also reported a variety of charges related to a restructuring effort that has already included the elimination of 7,000 jobs.  Before the restructuring was announced, the company, based in Albuquerque, N.M., employed 69,000 people. 

 Excluding the charges, the company lost $20.2million, or 35 cents a share. Analysts surveyed by First Call Corp. had predicted a loss of 12 cents a share. Before a warning earlier this year, analysts had expected the company to report a per-share profit of 19 cents. 

 The year-ago quarter included a loss of $19.9 million, or 42 cents a share, for the early retirement of debt. 

 Revenue climbed 15 percent to $780.2 million in the latest quarter. 

 For the full year, the company reported a net loss of $753.7 million, or $14.49 a share, on $3.1 billion in revenue. 

 Sun said earlier this week it would restate its financial results for the first three quarters of 1998 and report its year-end results later than expected because of an accounting change related to its purchase of Retirement Care Associates Inc. 

 The restatement gave the company a profit of 2 cents a share for second-quarter 1998, compared with the originally reported profit of 38 cents a share; and a third-quarter loss of 2 cents a share, compared with a previously stated profit of 20 cents a share. 

Document orse000020010829dv4a00hbd




 BUSINESS 
 COMPAQ'S EARNINGS WILL BE WAY OFF MARK 

 Reuters 
458 words
10 April 1999
Orlando Sentinel
ORSE
METRO
C1
English
Copyright (c) 1999 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved.

 NEW YORK - Compaq Computer Corp., the world's No. 1 personal- computer maker, confirmed investor fears Friday by warning that its first-quarter profit would probably be less than half of what Wall Street had forecast. 

 In a terse statement released late in the day, the Houston-based company said it expects earnings of about 15 cents a share, far below the consensus estimate of 31 cents a share among Wall Street analysts, according to a recent First Call Inc. survey. 

 By comparison, Compaq eked out a profit of just 1 cent in the year-ago first quarter as it worked off a glut of inventory. 

 Sales for the three months ending March 31 will be $9.4 billion, Compaq said, compared with expectations for as much as $9.98 billion when the quarter began. 

 The announcement, which came after the markets closed, triggered an after-hours sell-off in Compaq shares. It also knocked down the share prices of rival PC makers and key suppliers of computer chips and software. 

 Compaq fell to $26 in after-hours trading from its closing price of $30.94 on the New York Stock Exchange. No. 1 direct computer seller Dell Computer sank to $40.13 vs. $43.56 at the close. And Intel, which makes the microprocessors inside many of both companies' machines, dropped to $126.25 from $130.81. 

 Analysts said the shortfall is likely to reverberate through technology stocks Monday as investors take measure of its effect on the industry. 

 "The quarter's shortfall reflects lower-than-anticipated market demand and increased competitive pricing in the commercial PC sector," Chief Financial Officer Earl Mason said. 

 Mason's remark echoed comments he made to a group of investors in late February, when he signaled that commercial sales of Compaq PCs, especially to small and medium-sized businesses, were weak in the first six weeks of this year. 

 "While market conditions will continue to be competitive, we fully intend to expand our business and grow market share profitably in 1999," Eckhard Pfeiffer, Compaq's president and chief executive officer, added in the written statement. 

 Beyond the immediate crisis, Compaq has been struggling to digest last year's $8.4 billion acquisition of Digital Equipment Corp., a business computer and consulting services supplier, by combining operations and cutting costs. 

 A Compaq spokesman wouldn't comment further. The company said final results for the first quarter would be reported on April 21. 

 The earnings warning is expected to renew debate on Wall Street about whether the nose-dive in Compaq results reflects a general weakening of demand among PC makers generally or whether Compaq alone is to blame for its weak sales. 

Document orse000020010829dv4a00h4j




 Headlines From Washington Post For Saturday 

117 words
10 April 1999
09:33
Dow Jones Asian Equities Report
AER
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


         FRONT PAGE:
-The Night The Bombs Didn't Drop; Bad Weather, Caution
 Foil Carrier's Mission



-Yelstin Warning Stirs A Temporary Tempest
-Beaver Trapped At Tidal Basin
-End Of An Era For Fertilizer With Human Element
-Clinton Urged To Plan Ground War
-U.S. Steps Up Rhetorical Fight; Rape, Murder By Yugoslavs
 Alleged
-Lobbyist Prospers As Charges Loom
      FIRST BUSINESS PAGE:
-Gasoline Prices Rise From The Depths
-More Tourists Visit Area This Spring
-PPI Rose Just 0.2% In March
-Profit Drop Predicted By Compaq
-Why U.S. Bided Its Time On China Deal
-Murdoch's Bid For British Soccer Team Denied



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  10-04-99



0833GMT


1088

Document aer0000020010824dv4a00dh5




 Global Growth-Stock's Moe: Compaq News Won't Dampen Techs 

237 words
10 April 1999
00:00
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Compaq Computer Corp.'s (CPQ) disappointing first-quarter earnings outlook due to weakness in market demand and PC pricing doesn't necessarily bode trouble for the technology sector in the long term, said Michael Moe, director of Global Growth-Stock Research. 

 "PCs have become the automobile of the 1990s. They are cheaper, faster and better every year, but I really don't think (Compaq's profitwarning) will have an impact on the overall strength we see in the marketplace," Moe said in an interview with CNBC Friday. "Technology has been the new driver of the stock market and the economy overall." 

 However, if Intel Corp. (INTC) also reports lower-than-expected earnings for the same reasons as Compaq, he will take that as a "forewarning of what we can expect from those technology companies in the next two to three months." 

 Moe likes small- and mid-cap growth companies in the business-services, media and communications, health-care, corporate-training and education sectors. 

 He recommends Metzler Group Inc. (METZ), a consulting company advising utilities on such things as cost management, marketing and customer relations. 


He also likes Provant Inc. (POVT), which provides a broad range of
training and development services and products to Fortune 1000
companies.
   -Zahida Hafeez; 201-938-5176



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  04-09-99



07:00 PM


Document dj00000020010826dv49024n3




Abreast of the Market
 Industrial Average Soars to Record 

 By Robert O'Brien 
Dow Jones Newswires
712 words
9 April 1999
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
18
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 NEW YORK -- U.S. stocks climbed, establishing the Dow Jones Industrial Average's hold on the 10000 milestone. 

 The industrial average gained 112.39 points, or 1.1%, to 10197.70, its highest finish, topping the record established Wednesday. Advancing issues outnumbered retreaters 1,702 to 1,261, with 595 unchanged at the New York Stock Exchange, as volume grew to 838.9 million shares, from 813.4 million shares Wednesday. 

 The New York Stock Exchange Composite Index gained 8.05 points to 624.28. The average price a share rose 60 cents. 

 The session marked the first time the industrial average managed to finish above 10000 for a second consecutive time. The two previous occasions on which the Dow Jones industrials topped 10000, the average lost ground in the next session. 

 Among blue-chip issues, oil names such as Chevron, which added 3 13/16 to 93 3/4, retailers like Wal-Mart Stores, which rose 4 3/4 to 102 1/4, and financial issues, such as Citigroup, which gained 1 5/16 to 73 and overtook the 52-week high that had stood since July, were all part of the big gains in top stocks. 

 The records and the milestones should, of course, sound familiar to investors who have watched the market's recent performance. But Thursday's session featured some departures from the recent trends. 

 Shares of General Electric declined 9/16 to 113 15/16 despite an on-target first-quarter profit announcement, while International Business Machines gave up 1 7/8 to 184 5/8 on secular weakness in computer stocks. Lucent Technologies fell 1/16 to 63 15/16. America Online notched a gain of 2 1/4 to 160 1/8. 

 Those issues were the stalwarts when the Dow Jones Industrial Average made its initial foray above 10000 two weeks ago. Yet, without their contributions, the market maintained record status anyway. 

 "My fear has been that, when the leaders lost momentum, there would be no rotation into other sectors," said Stephen Shobin, technical analyst at Lehman Brothers. "But, to this market's credit, a lot of leaders have lost momentum, but here we're seeing the laggards take up the slack." 

 Still, there were some blemishes on the market. Technical characteristics have been a sore point for several weeks, and while they weren't too bad Thursday, they weren't as impressive as the gains in the averages might suggest. 

 The biggest gap in the market Thursday proved to be the performance of computer stocks, as computer makers like Compaq Computer lost 5/8 to 29 5/8, Gateway dropped 1 3/16 to 75 1/2, and Dell Computer fell 1 7/16 to 45 on Nasdaq. 

 "It's fairly widely recognized in the market that the PC-related companies within the broader tech sector are seeing some slowing momentum," said Alan Skrainka, market strategist at Edward Jones. 

 Investors might have been looking for Dell to inject some optimism in the sector. The company met Thursday with analysts in New York. But while the company touted its competitive position, it didn't encourage analysts to raise their earnings forecasts. 

 Thursday wasn't an especially fortunate day for the semiconductor sector, either. Advanced Micro Devices, which Wednesday issued another warning about its profit outlook, lost 5/8 to 15 9/16. The announcement marked the third time the company has expressed pessimism about its performance in the last two months. 

 Other issues fell in sympathy. Micron Technology lost 2 1/2 to 47 1/2. Intel gave up 1 1/16 to 131 1/16. Texas Instruments dropped 2 5/8 to 110 1/16. 

 To be sure, there were several winners among high techs. Sun Microsystems moved up 4 1/4 to 143 on Nasdaq. Oracle gained 1 7/8 to 23 5/16, also on Nasdaq. BMC Software moved ahead 4 5/16 to 35 5/8 on Nasdaq. The improvement in the Nasdaq Composite Index was comparable to those of other market measures, on a percentage basis. The index gained 28.96 points, or 1.1%, to end at 2573.39, its best finish ever. 

Document wsje000020010830dv490071f




Abreast of the Market
 Chevron, Wal-Mart and Citigroup Help Keep Market Riding High 

 By Robert O'Brien 
Dow Jones Newswires
1,304 words
9 April 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
C2
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 Corrections & Amplifications 

 ABERCROMBIE & FITCH Co. isn't a unit of Limited Inc. In Friday's Abreast of the Market column, the specialty retailer was incorrectly identified as a Limited unit. Limited spun off Abercrombie & Fitch in May 1998. (WSJ April 14, 1999) 

 NEW YORK -- U.S. stocks took an unlikely path to a familiar destination, in a trading session that established, at least for now, the Dow Jones Industrial Average's hold on the 10000 milestone. 

 Among blue-chip issues, oil names such as Chevron, which added 3 13/16 to 93 3/4, retailers such as Wal-Mart Stores, which rose 4 3/4 to 102 1/4, and financial issues, such as Citigroup, which gained 1 5/16 to 73, and overtook the 52-week high that had stood since July, all were part of the big gains in top stocks. 

 The industrial average moved up 112.39 points, a gain of 1.11%, to 10197.70, its highest finish ever, topping the record established Wednesday. 

 The records and the milestones should sound familiar to investors who have watched the market's recent performance, but yesterday's session featured departures from the recent trends. 

 General Electric declined 5/8 to 113 7/8 despite an on-target first-quarter profit announcement and Lucent Technologies fell 1/16 to 63 15/16. America Online gained 2 1/4 to 160 1/2, piddly by its recent standards and International Business Machines gained 1/2 to 187. 

 Those issues were the stalwarts when the Dow industrial average made its initial foray above 10000 two weeks ago. Yet, without their contributions, the market maintained record status anyway. 

 "My fear has been that, when the leaders lost momentum, there would be no rotation into other sectors," said Stephen Shobin, technical analyst at Lehman Brothers. "But, to this market's credit, a lot of leaders have lost momentum, but here we're seeing the laggards take up the slack." 

 The biggest gap in the market proved to be the performance of computer stocks, as computer makers such as Compaq Computer lost 5/8 to 29 5/8, Gateway dropped 1 3/16 to 75 1/2, and Dell Computer (Nasdaq) fell 1 7/16 to 45. 

 "It's fairly widely recognized in the market that the PC-related companies within the broader tech sector are seeing some slowing momentum," said Alan Skrainka, market strategist at Edward Jones. 

 Investors might have been looking for Dell to inject some optimism into the sector. The company met with analysts in New York. But while Dell touted its competitive position, it didn't encourage analysts to raise earnings forecasts. 

 Yesterday wasn't an especially fortunate day for the semiconductor sector, either. Advanced Micro Devices, which Wednesday issued another warning about its profit outlook, lost 5/8 to 15 9/16. The announcement marked the third time in two months the company has expressed pessimism about its performance. 

 Other issues fell in sympathy. Micron Technology lost 2 1/2 to 47 1/8. Intel (Nasdaq) gave up 1 1/16 to 131 1/16. Texas Instruments dropped 2 5/8 to 110 1/16. 

 However, several high techs were winners. Sun Microsystems (Nasdaq) moved up 4 1/4 to 143. Oracle (Nasdaq) gained 1 7/8 to 23 5/16. BMC Software (Nasdaq) moved ahead 4 5/16 to 35 5/8. 

 Several retailing issues realized sharp gains after the group posted sales results for March that showed another month of bigger-than-expected increases for several sector leaders. 

 Saks gained 1 13/16 to 25 3/4, after showing sales growth in March, even though, for the most part, the discounters, such as Wal-Mart, enjoyed the best success in the month. 

 Dayton Hudson climbed 2 5/16 to 70 15/16. Dillard's advanced 1 5/16 to 26 5/16. Gap added 4 3/8 to 72 3/4. 

 Limited added 1 9/16 to 43, while its Abercrombie & Fitch moved up 2 3/8 to 95 5/16, and its Intimate Brands gained 2 3/8 to 51 1/4, setting a 52-week high. Intimate Brands said Wednesday its fiscal first-quarter profit will slightly exceed Wall Street's projections. 

 Other retailers benefited from the secular improvement. Home Depot increased 3 1/8 to 66 11/16. Circuit City Stores rose 4 5/8 to 73 1/8, recovering most of what it lost in a steep decline Wednesday. Staples (Nasdaq) moved up 1 1/8 to 35 3/4. Bed Bath & Beyond (Nasdaq) gained 2 13/16 to 38 9/16. 

 CVS advanced 2 1/4 to 48 3/8. Goldman Sachs added the Woonsocket, R.I., drugstore chain to its recommended list. 

 Office Depot gained 3 to 24 3/4. The Delray Beach, Fla., office-products retailer signed a one-year advertising and promotion agreement to have its Web site featured on America Online's interactive service. 

 On the downside, Sears Roebuck lost 3/4 to 45 1/4 after a mixed showing with March sales results. 

 Union Carbide had the biggest gain among components of the industrial average, rising 5 1/2 to 51 3/8. Fundamentally, the stock got some lift from hopes a decision by Equistar Chemicals to temporarily close one of its petrochemical plants may give Union Carbide a competitive advantage in that market. Analysts also said speculation about a possible takeover of the company, which has alighted on it in the past, cropped up yesterday. A Union Carbide spokesman said the company doesn't comment on stock activity. 

 Abbott Laboratories advanced 2 15/16 to 51 7/16. The Abbott Park, Ill., healthcare- and medical-products maker reported first-quarter profits that beat Wall Street's forecasts. 

 Biogen (Nasdaq) rose 4 to 120. After the trading session closed, the Cambridge, Mass., drug developer reported fiscal first-quarter results that topped Wall Street's estimates. 

 Humana lost 4 to 12 3/16. The Louisville, Ky., health-management organization warned first-quarter operating earnings will come in below Wall Street's estimates. 

 Other HMOs also suffered declines, as the group moved lower in sympathy with Humana. Wellpoint Health Networks dropped 5 1/4 to 69 7/8. United Healthcare declined 6 to 44 11/16. 

 Sovereign Bancorp (Nasdaq) advanced 13/16 to 12 7/16. The Wyomissing, Pa., savings and loan said it repurchased up to 10% of the company's outstanding shares. 

 Crane gained 2 5/8 to 27 1/16. Salomon Smith Barney raised its rating on the Stamford, Conn., manufacturer. 

 Northern Telecom rose 8 1/8 to 76. The Canadian telecommunications-equipment maker said it signed two agreements to provide as much as $1 billion in products and services to Bell Atlantic. 

 Allegheny Teledyne declined 5/16 to 19 3/4. The Pittsburgh specialty-metals producer warned first-quarter earnings will fall short of Wall Street's expectations. 

 Bolstered by the tech-stock gains, the Nasdaq Composite Index gained 28.96, or 1.14%, to 2573.39, its best finish ever. 

 But the biggest gains were reserved for the stocks that were exposed to the expanding economy or the accommodating interest-rate backdrop, Mr. Skrainka of Edward Jones said. "Everything (other than techs) responded to the terrific economic performance we're seeing," he said. 

 That was reflected in the way broader indicators moved. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index moved ahead 17.09, or 1.29%, to 1343.98, a record. 

 On the New York Stock Exchange, advancing issues held an advantage over decliners, 1,728 to 1,268. Volume increased to 838.8 million shares from 813.4 million shares. 

Document j000000020010828dv49009i5




 REPEAT:=NY Stks Seen Rising -2: Helped By World Mkts 

412 words
8 April 1999
14:28
Dow Jones Australia and New Zealand Report
DJAN
English
(c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 The optimism in the U.S. equities market has been taken from several improving trends in the fundamental backdrop. 

 For one, interest rates, which were seen as an equity market opponent just a week ago, have stemmed their recent rise. The 30-year government Treasury is flat here in Thursday's session, with its yield holding steady at the nice, round number of 5.50%. 

 Global economic conditions seem to be on the mend, if you can trust the way some overseas equities markets are interpreting their own health and vitality. Asian investors have been on an equity buying spree. As a result, the Nikkei Index, which tacked on 1.8% in gains Thursday, has climbed to its best level in over a year. Other Asian markets have climbed recently, as well. 

 European markets are a little tamer here Thursday, despite expectations that central banking authorities on the continent may come through with anticipated rate cuts. In fact, the Bank of England did move Thursday to lower rates a quarter point, but equity investors in London, apparently determining the good news was priced into stocks, sent the FT-SE 100 down fractionally. Stocks slipped in Frankfurt, but by a negligible measure. 

 The final factor in the market's recent rise has been the growing enthusiasm for first-quarter profits. There have been some shortfalls, of course. Advanced Micro Devices came out late Wednesday with a warning that its previous forecasts of profit shortfalls weren't quite dire enough. But analysts said nobody was banking on an AMD breakthrough, anyway. 

 They will be interested in what Michael Dell, the head of Dell Computer, will have to say about the computer maker's earnings outlook at a meeting Thursday with analysts in New York. 

 Shares of Yahoo! are expected to rise after the Internet leader, which rallied earlier in the week on optimism about its earnings prospects, delivered on that faith with a report of stronger-than-expected profits late Wednesday. 


Blue-chip bellwether General Electric delivered on-target earnings
Thursday, which could give the Dow Jones Industrial Average - GE is a
component - another source of boost. The industrial average posted a
record finish Wednesday with a gain of 121 points at 10085, and is
looking to post its first back-to-back 10000-plus finish ever.
   -Robert O'Brien; 201/938-5460



(END) Dow Jones Newswires 08-04-99



1328GMT


20716 4116 5042

Document djan000020010826dv48001ow




 N.Y. Stocks Seen Rising -2: Helped By World Markets 

412 words
8 April 1999
14:25
Dow Jones Australia and New Zealand Report
DJAN
English
(c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 The optimism in the U.S. equities market has been taken from several improving trends in the fundamental backdrop. 

 For one, interest rates, which were seen as an equity market opponent just a week ago, have stemmed their recent rise. The 30-year government Treasury is flat here in Thursday's session, with its yield holding steady at the nice, round number of 5.50%. 

 Global economic conditions seem to be on the mend, if you can trust the way some overseas equities markets are interpreting their own health and vitality. Asian investors have been on an equity buying spree. As a result, the Nikkei Index, which tacked on 1.8% in gains Thursday, has climbed to its best level in over a year. Other Asian markets have climbed recently, as well. 

 European markets are a little tamer here Thursday, despite expectations that central banking authorities on the continent may come through with anticipated rate cuts. In fact, the Bank of England did move Thursday to lower rates a quarter point, but equity investors in London, apparently determining the good news was priced into stocks, sent the FT-SE 100 down fractionally. Stocks slipped in Frankfurt, but by a negligible measure. 

 The final factor in the market's recent rise has been the growing enthusiasm for first-quarter profits. There have been some shortfalls, of course. Advanced Micro Devices came out late Wednesday with a warning that its previous forecasts of profit shortfalls weren't quite dire enough. But analysts said nobody was banking on an AMD breakthrough, anyway. 

 They will be interested in what Michael Dell, the head of Dell Computer, will have to say about the computer maker's earnings outlook at a meeting Thursday with analysts in New York. 

 Shares of Yahoo! are expected to rise after the Internet leader, which rallied earlier in the week on optimism about its earnings prospects, delivered on that faith with a report of stronger-than-expected profits late Wednesday. 


Blue-chip bellwether General Electric delivered on-target earnings
Thursday, which could give the Dow Jones Industrial Average - GE is a
component - another source of boost. The industrial average posted a
record finish Wednesday with a gain of 121 points at 10085, and is
looking to post its first back-to-back 10000-plus finish ever.
   -Robert O'Brien; 201/938-5460



(END) Dow Jones Newswires 08-04-99



1325GMT


20716 4116 5042

Document djan000020010826dv48001os




 N.Y. Late Market Comment -3: Nasdaq Up Despite Mixed Techs 

381 words
8 April 1999
22:05
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 The biggest gap in the market Thursday proved to be the performance of computer stocks, as computer makers like Compaq Computer lost 5/8 to 29 5/8, Gateway dropped 1 3/16 to 75 1/2, and Dell Computer fell 1 7/16 to 45 on Nadsaq. 

 "It's fairly widely recognized in the market that the PC-related companies within the broader tech sector are seeing some slowing momentum," Alan Skrainka, market strategist at Edward Jones, said Thursday. 

 Investors might have been looking for Dell to inject some optimism in the sector. The company met Thursday with analysts in New York. But while the company touted its competitive position, it did not encourage analysts to raise their earnings forecasts. 

 Thursday was not an especially fortunate day for the semiconductor sector, either. Advanced Micro Devices, which Wednesday issued another warning about its profit outlook, lost 5/8 to 15 9/16. The announcement marked the third time the company has expressed pessimism about its performance in the last two months. 

 Other issues fell in sympathy. Micron Technology lost 2 1/2 to 47 1/2. Intel gave up 1 1/16 to 131 1/16. Texas Instruments dropped 2 5/8 to 110 1/16. 

 To be sure, there were several winners among high techs. Sun Microsystems moved up 4 1/4 to 143 on Nasdaq. Oracle gained 1 7/8 to 23 5/16, also on Nasdaq. BMC Software moved ahead 4 5/16 to 35 5/8 on Nasdaq. The improvement in the Nasdaq Composite Index was comparable to those of other market measures, on a percentage basis. The index gained 28.96, or 1.14%, to end at 2573.39, its best finish ever. 

 But the biggest gains were reserved for the stocks that were exposed to the expanding economy or the accommodating interest-rate backdrop, Skrainka said. "Everthing (other than techs) responded to the terrific economic performance we're seeing," he said. 

 That was reflected in the way broader indicators moved. The Standard & Poor's 500 Stock Index moved ahead 17.11, or 1.28%, to close at 1344.00. That was a record. 

 (MORE) DOW JONES NEWS  04-08-99 

 05:05 PM 

Document dj00000020010826dv48022if




 N.Y. Stocks Seen Rising -2: Helped By World Markets 

411 words
8 April 1999
14:23
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 The optimism in the U.S. equities market has been taken from several improving trends in the fundamental backdrop. 

 For one, interest rates, which were seen as an equity market opponent just a week ago, have stemmed their recent rise. The 30-year government Treasury is flat here in Thursday's session, with its yield holding steady at the nice, round number of 5.50%. 

 Global economic conditions seem to be on the mend, if you can trust the way some overseas equities markets are interpreting their own health and vitality. Asian investors have been on an equity buying spree. As a result, the Nikkei Index, which tacked on 1.8% in gains Thursday, has climbed to its best level in over a year. Other Asian markets have climbed recently, as well. 

 European markets are a little tamer here Thursday, despite expectations that central banking authorities on the continent may come through with anticipated rate cuts. In fact, the Bank of England did move Thursday to lower rates a quarter point, but equity investors in London, apparently determining the good news was priced into stocks, sent the FT-SE 100 down fractionally. Stocks slipped in Frankfurt, but by a negligible measure. 

 The final factor in the market's recent rise has been the growing enthusiasm for first-quarter profits. There have been some shortfalls, of course. Advanced Micro Devices came out late Wednesday with a warning that its previous forecasts of profit shortfalls weren't quite dire enough. But analysts said nobody was banking on an AMD breakthrough, anyway. 

 They will be interested in what Michael Dell, the head of Dell Computer, will have to say about the computer maker's earnings outlook at a meeting Thursday with analysts in New York. 

 Shares of Yahoo! are expected to rise after the Internet leader, which rallied earlier in the week on optimism about its earnings prospects, delivered on that faith with a report of stronger-than-expected profits late Wednesday. 


Blue-chip bellwether General Electric delivered on-target earnings
Thursday, which could give the Dow Jones Industrial Average - GE is a
component - another source of boost. The industrial average posted a
record finish Wednesday with a gain of 121 points at 10085, and is
looking to post its first back-to-back 10000-plus finish ever.
   -Robert O'Brien; 201/938-5460



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  04-08-99



09:23 AM


Document dj00000020010826dv480224h




 Around the World's Markets - New York. 

87 words
7 April 1999
The Independent - London
IND
13
English
(c) 1999 Independent Newspapers (UK) Limited . All rights reserved. This material may not be published, distributed or exploited in any way.

 THE DOW failed to stay above the 10,000 mark following a profit warning from Gillette, the world's largest manufacturer of razors. 

 Gillette tumbled more than 10 per cent after it said that slowing Latin American sales would hurt profits this year, dragging the Dow down 0.4 per cent to 9965.43 by midday. The hi-tech Nasdaq Composite index, which like the Dow set a new record high on Monday, rose 5.32 points to 2566.70. 

Document ind0000020010906dv4700rxh




 U.S. Shares In London Up; Investors Await Wall St Upside 

244 words
7 April 1999
12:27
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 LONDON (Dow Jones)--U.S. shares are higher in quiet London-based trading Wednesday, as investors figure Wall Street will open higher later this session, traders said. 

 A U.S. equities trader in London said he expects the Dow Jones Industrial Average to open 30 points higher later in the session. 

 "We saw some profit-taking on Tuesday, and a profit warning scare over Gillette, but most investors think that was oversold, and their still trying to beat the resistance of 10,085," he added. 

 There's no significant U.S. data due out ahead of the Wall Street opening. 

 U.S. technology and telecommunication stocks continued to offer upside Tuesday, although some of the key stocks, Microsoft and Worldcom, slid, while Intel rose. 

 Most of the stocks are dormant in London, but offering optimism was Worldcom which was indicated higher by 1/4 at 89 3/4 at 1215 GMT. 

 The S&P 500 March futures contract was up 4.60 at 1335.10 and U.S. 30-year treasury bonds were up 2/32 at 96 03/32 with a yield of 5.51%. 

 The DJIA fell 43.84 points to 9963.49 Tuesday, although it did retrace from nadir losses of 91 points late in the session. 

 -By George Matlock; 44-171-832-9587; George.Matlock@dowjones.com 

 (END) DOW JONES NEWS  04-07-99 

 07:27 AM 

Document dj00000020010826dv4701z9z




 Dow falls on earnings jitters, bonds rally. 

 By Richard Chang 
585 words
7 April 1999
08:18
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, April 7 (Reuters) - Blue-chip stocks fell on Tuesday, a day after ending at a record high, as a warning of weak earnings by razor maker Gillette Co. sparked a bout of profit-taking. 

 Bonds rallied and the dollar fell more than a full cent against Europe's single currency when Serbian authorities declared a unilateral ceasefire in Kosovo. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average ended off 43.84 points, or 0.44 percent, at 9,963.49, backing down from Monday's record finish of 10,007.33, its second close above 10,000. 

 In the broader market, declining issues led advances 1,764 to 1,185 on active volume of 785 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 The technology-laced Nasdaq composite index edged up 3.11 points, or 0.12 percent, to 2,563.17, its second consecutive record high close. 

 News of a Serbian ceasefire offer did nothing for stocks. The United States rejected the unilateral ceasefire deal by Yugoslavia and Britain dismissed it as a diplomatic ploy. 

 Stock investors grew nervous after Gillette warned Monday evening that its first-quarter earnings would miss Wall Street estimates. Gillette tumbled 7-7/8 to 50. 

 The big concern was that Gillette's problems stemmed from the slowdown in the global economy, which generates two-thirds of the company's revenues. 

 "It sparked a little wave of paranoia," said Timothy Straus, senior vice president at Jefferies & Co. 

 Mara Glassel, vice president of Prudential Securities Equities Focus Group, added: "It's only a penny, but with the market at such high levels, there's no room for any kind of mistakes." 

 Berkshire Hathaway Inc., the holding company of Nebraska billionaire Warren Buffett, fell 400 points to 72,300. Berkshire Hathaway controls 8.7 percent of Gillette's stock. 

 The first-quarter reporting season officially begins next week. 

 "Stocks are up near their highs, which is a typical sell stop for traders, so it's not unusual for stocks to take a breather at these levels," said A.C. Moore, chief investment strategist at Dunvegan Associates. 

 Analysts said investors are reluctant to push the Dow much further above 10,000 - a number that has been viewed as an important symbol of the bull market's long run - without a fundamental reason. 

 "10,000 is going to be a barrier on the upside until the Street gets some optimistic guidance for the future," said Charles Payne, head analyst at Wall Street Strategies. 

 The profit-taking extended to stocks in the technology sector, which has long been a leader of the bull market. Yahoo Inc., which jumped more than 39 points Monday, dropped 4-1/4 to 214-7/8. 

 The benchmark 30-year Treasury bond rose 31/32, or $9.6875 on a $1,000 bond. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction to the price, fell to 5.52 percent from 5.59 percent at Monday's close. 

 The euro rose to $1.0837 from $1.0715 late on Monday, when many European markets remained closed for the Easter holiday. 

 The dollar fell to 120.60 Japanese yen from 121.85 yen. 

 Overseas, London's FTSE 100 index ended 85.3 points, or 1.35 percent, higher at 6,415.3. Tokyo's Nikkei 225 average was up 144.93 points, or 0.89 percent, at 16,479.71, the highest close since July 21, 1998. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4703gub




 Business; Financial Desk 
 Market Savvy  Profit Warning  Pricks Dow's Latest Bubble Wall St.: Gillette announcement also sends broader market mostly lower. Bond yields fall. 

From Times Wire Services
653 words
7 April 1999
Los Angeles Times
LATM
National Edition
NC-4
English
 Copyright 1999 / The Times Mirror Company 

 Gillette provided the latest sobering influence for a giddy stock market Tuesday, sending prices lower with a warning that it will fall short of analysts' expectations for first-quarter earnings. 

 Gillette's announcement deflated the rally that sent the Dow Jones industrial average to a record high Monday. The Dow fell 43.84 points Tuesday to close at 9,963.49. 

 Broader market indicators were mostly lower, although the Dow sustained the sharpest losses. Barry Hyman, senior equity analyst at Ehrenkrantz King Nussbaum, said Gillette's bad news illustrates the recent split between the fortunes of the blue-chip companies and the Internet upstarts. 

 "This is a two-tiered market," he said. "It has been for quite some time, and as long as the Gillettes, the Cokes keep coming out with warnings, it will remain so." 

 Gillette joined Coca-Cola and 3M in warning that business abroad is a drag on profits. With stocks near record highs, "there's no room for error," said James Weiss, head of stock investments at State Street Research & Management in Boston. 

 The companies in the Standard & Poor's 500 index are selling for 26 times this year's projected operating earnings per share, the highest in 50 years, according to First Call. 

 The broader S&P 500 slipped 3.23 points, or 0.2%, on Tuesday to 1,317.89. The Nasdaq composite eked out a 3.11-point gain to a record 2,563.17. 

 Declining stocks outnumbered gainers on the New York Stock Exchange by a 17-11 ratio; volume was moderate. 

 Gillette slumped $7.75 to $50 after it said quarterly profit will be a penny less than analysts forecast because of weak sales in Latin America and in its line of Braun appliances. 

 Coke, which gets two-thirds of its sales and three-quarters of its profit abroad, fell 69 cents to $59.81. 3M, which garners half its sales abroad, fell $1.06 to $71.94. The Morgan Stanley consumer index, which groups shares of 30 U.S. consumer companies, fell 1.1%. 

 Bond prices rose, pushing the yield on benchmark 30-year Treasury securities to 5.52% from 5.59% on Monday. 

 Among Tuesday's highlights: 

 * Intel led semiconductor shares higher with a gain of $2.94 to $130.44 after an analyst at Lehman Bros. said the industry's recovery from its worst recession ever is picking up steam. 

 Applied Materials rose $2.19 to $67.94, LSI Logic gained $3.50 to $36 and Micron Technology climbed $2.25 to $53.75. 

 * Other computer stocks also rallied. Dell Computer surged $2.75 to $46.81. The third-largest personal computer maker is set to brief analysts Thursday. "People are waking to the fact that the fundamentals continue to be very strong for technology companies," said Weiss of State Street. 

 Sun Microsystems surged $10.63 to $140.63 after it unveiled products that work with a rival operating system from Microsoft. 

 * In the Internet sector, DoubleClick jumped $25.44 to $121 as the Net advertising company was rated "strong buy" by an analyst at CE Unterberg Towbin. 

 * Alpha Industries rose $7.13 to $25.88 after the maker of semiconductors for wireless phones said it received increased production orders from Motorola. 

 * General Motors, the world's largest auto maker, surged $3.50 to $91.06 amid optimism about car sales. Ford Motor, the second-biggest, said U.S. car and light-truck sales rose 14% in March, beating expectations. Ford set record truck sales as rising incomes boosted consumer confidence. Its shares dipped 6 cents to $58.25. 

 Market Roundup, C7 

 GRAPHIC-CHART: Daily Diary: Tuesday, April 6, 1999; Dow Jones Industrials; New York Volume, Los Angeles Times 

Document latm000020010828dv4700nre




Abreast of the Market
 Gillette Drops on  Profit Warning ; Colgate, Coca-Cola, GE, IBM Fall 

 By Robert O'Brien 
Dow Jones Newswires
1,321 words
7 April 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
C2
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 NEW YORK -- Shares of Gillette fell sharply after the company introduced a jolt of pessimism into the market. 

 The razor maker dropped 7 3/4 to 50 on the New York Stock Exchange as investors reacted to the company's warning late Monday that earnings would fall short of Wall Street's forecasts, and, perhaps worse, that the nascent enthusiasm for the global economic recovery might be misplaced. 

 The fallout in other companies that make consumer products sold around the world was limited. Procter & Gamble made up modest intraday losses to finish down 1/4 at 100 5/8. Colgate-Palmolive declined 3/4 to 93 3/4. Coca-Cola, which had warned of its own global-market shortfall last month, finished 11/16 lower at 59 13/16. 

 But the Gillette warning introduced a dose of worry that persuaded some investors to book profits in the same blue-chip bellwethers that have dominated market action during the recent climb to record levels. General Electric, for example, declined 1 5/16 to 113 5/16, and International Business Machines lost 15/16 to 183. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average, which finished Monday at a record, eased somewhat, finishing down 43.84, or 0.44%, to 9963.49. 

 The Standard & Poor's 500 Index, which established a record Monday, finished lower, down 3.23, or 0.24%, at 1317.89. 

 Over in the technology sector, some issues suffered the same sort of profit-taking that undid blue chips. 

 Yahoo! (Nasdaq), which rallied 25 points intraday, closed 4 1/4 lower at 214 7/8, even though Wall Street grew increasingly optimistic about the prognosis for an encouraging earnings surprise when the company releases quarterly results today. 

 Amazon.com (Nasdaq) fell 3 5/8 to 182 7/8 after an early runup, and broadcast.com (Nasdaq) ended 5/8 lower at 156 3/8 after trading as high as 177 1/4. Even America Online had a very un-Internet-like session, ending 9/16 higher at 167 1/2. 

 The day did offer some Internet success stories, however. RealNetworks (Nasdaq) ran up 40 15/16 to end at 195 7/16, after a bullish outlook from an analyst at Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette. DoubleClick (Nasdaq) gained 25 7/16 to 121, reaching a 52-week high, after encouraging comments from an analyst at C.E. Unterberg Towbin. Concentric Network (Nasdaq) rose 13 5/8 to 97, although the company, which provides Internet services to businesses, said it didn't see what made the stock rally. 

 Semiconductor stocks also mustered a strong showing. LSI Logic increased 3 1/2 to 36, extending its 52-week high. An analyst at SoundView Technology group initiated coverage of the stock with a strong buy rating, saying the semiconductor industry was in recovery, and that LSI was positioned to benefit from it. 

 Other chip stocks also improved. Intel (Nasdaq) gained 2 15/16 to 130 7/16. Micron Technology advanced 2 1/4 to 53 3/4. Traders said the chip maker was scheduled to sit down today with Wall Street analysts covering the company. 

 Computer maker Dell Computer (Nasdaq), also meeting this week with analysts, gained 2 3/4 to 46 13/16. 

 The Nasdaq Composite Index finished 3.11 points higher, a rise of 0.12%, at 2563.17. The gain didn't amount to much, but after a closing record Monday, the advance let the index set a high. 

 Several telecommunications stocks improved sharply on a secular rise in the group. Lucent Technologies moved up 5 11/16 to 64 5/8. Northern Telecom added 1 1/2 to 67 11/16. Tellabs (Nasdaq) rose 3 13/16 to 107 1/4, on what the company said were investor expectations of earnings strength. 

 There were some losers in the group. Ciena (Nasdaq) lost 2 3/8 to 18 15/16. Analysts said investors were put off by its description of the risks associated with two acquisitions stated in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing. 

 AT&T rose 2 11/16 to 80 1/8, but other telecommunications-service providers lost ground. SBC Communications slipped 3/16 to 50 5/8. Ameritech gave up 3/8 to 62 1/4. 

 Nextel Communications (Nasdaq) made some intraday progress, but finished lower, down 7/16 to 39 3/16. The moves came after a report in The Wall Street Journal yesterday said MCI WorldCom has held preliminary discussions with the McLean, Va., telecommunications-service concern about a takeover; but the article said there was no agreement on key terms, and that a deal may not materialize. MCI (Nasdaq) lost 2 15/16 to 89 9/16. 

 E-Tek Dynamics (Nasdaq) gained 3 1/16 to 40 1/8. SoundView Technology started coverage of the San Jose, Calif., developer of parts for fiber-optic networks. 

 Tribune rose 3 7/8 to 70 5/16. Late Monday the Chicago media concern announced plans to sell about five million hybrid securities that will let the company realize the value of its investment in America Online without selling those shares. 

 Ford Motor posted an intraday advance, but finished 1/16 lower at 58 1/4, after saying it would boost its second-quarter production plan by 30,000 vehicles after reporting a 13% increase in U.S. car and truck sales in March. 

 DaimlerChrysler rose 1 5/16 to 90 1/4. Merrill Lynch added the stock of the German-U.S. car maker to a list of European stocks it recommended. General Motors outpaced its rivals, advancing 3 1/2 to 91 1/16. 

 Xerox gained 1 13/16 to 57 1/8. The Stamford, Conn., copier maker named Rick Thoman chief executive, succeeding Paul Allaire. 

 Lernout & Hauspie Speech Products (Nasdaq) gained 5 11/16 to 43 9/16. The Belgian developer of speech-recognition technology rallied a second straight session, after analysts in Europe said the company should show earnings growth for 1998, and Intel said it planned to invest $30 million in the company. 

 Honeywell lost 3 to 77 1/2. Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette lowered its rating on the stock of the Minneapolis maker of automation and control systems. 

 Circuit City Stores lost 1 3/8 to 73 7/8, despite reporting an increase in fiscal fourth-quarter profit. The company's CarMax auto-retail unit, which added 1/16 to 3 15/16, showed weak sales in the period. 

 Tandy rose in early trading, establishing a 52-week high, but the stock declined later in the session, losing 2 to 64 1/4. The Fort Worth, Texas, consumer-electronics chain posted same-store sales growth for March of 15%. 

 Dana rose 1 3/8 to 40 7/16. J.P. Morgan raised its rating on the Toledo, Ohio, auto-parts maker. 

 Boston Scientific rose 15/16 to 41. U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray raised its rating on the Natick, Mass., medical-device maker. 

 After Monday's record finish at 10007.33, yesterday was the second time the Dow has topped 10000 at the close, then turned lower in the succeeding session. 

 "We're trapped in this range, because the high valuations leave the market very little room for error," said Charles Pradilla, chief investment strategist at SG Cowen. "Any kind of earnings glitch, and we run into problems." 

 Declining issues finished well ahead of advancers, 1,797 to 1,192, continuing a pattern that has seen losers trump winners handily on days averages decline, and winners struggle to stay ahead of losers on days the market advances. Analysts said that shows just how narrow the market's recent advance has been. Share volume showed marked improvement over Monday, with 785.9 million shares changing hands, up from 694.4 million. 

Document j000000020010828dv47008zy




 Headlines From Washington Post For Wednesday 

87 words
7 April 1999
04:31
Dow Jones Asian Equities Report
AER
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


                         FRONT PAGE:
-Albanians Share Little They Have With Refugees



-Exodus
-Mummies Of Inca Children Unearthed
-Truce Rejected As Allies Press Bombing Effort
-U.S. Miscalculations Traced To Albright
                     FIRST BUSINESS PAGE:
-AFL-CIO Calls Board Too Cozy With CEO On Pay
-Denny's Serves Up A Sensitive Image
-Nextel May Be Target Of Takeover
-SEC Offers Help On Fund Fees
-Circuit City Profit Up 37%
-Dow Falls 44 Points On Gillette Warning


(END) Dow Jones Newswires  07-04-99



0331GMT


1088

Document aer0000020010824dv4700cx2




NATION/WORLD
BUSINESS
MCI WORLDCOM STARTS DANCE WITH NEXTEL

Associated Press   
574 words
7 April 1999
Charlotte Observer (NC)
CLTO
ONE - THREE
1D
English
Copyright 1999 The Charlotte Observer. All rights reserved.   

MCI WorldCom Inc., the nation's second-biggest long-distance phone company, is in preliminary talks about acquiring wireless phone service provider Nextel Communications Inc., The Wall Street Journal reported Tuesday.

The newspaper, citing unidentified sources, said the two phone companies have yet to reach agreements on key terms that include price, however, and said some people involved in the talks put the odds that a deal will be reached at no more than 50 percent. The companies declined comment on the report.

Nextel stock closed down 43-3/4 cents at $39.18-3/4 a share on the Nasdaq Stock Market. MCI WorldCom shares fell $2.93-3/4 to $89.56-1/4.

Nextel, based in McLean, Va., has been considered a likely takeover target, especially since it will be the last independent U.S. wireless company once the pending $56 billion pact between Airtouch Communications Inc. and Vodafone Group PLC is complete.

MCI WorldCom, based in Jackson, Miss., doesn't own any wireless operations, though its biggest rival, AT&T Corp., has a growing wireless businesses.


   -- Associated Press

   *

   News Corp. now to control Fox/Liberty network

   News Corp. plans to expand its cable television reach, buying


``substantially all'' of Liberty Media Corp.'s portion of a joint venture in a $1.43 billion stock swap.

The Fox/Liberty Network is half-owned by Liberty and half-owned by News Corp. subsidiary Fox Entertainment Group. Under the deal, announced late Monday evening, News Corp. will gain control of regional sports network Fox Sports Net, which reaches more than 62 million households across the United States, entertainment network FX, which reaches more than 39 million households, and other businesses.


   - Associated Press

   *

   FORD HITS NEW HIGHS

   Ford Motor Co. said U.S. sales of North American-built vehicles rose 14


percent in March, beating expectations, as consumer confidence and low inflation helped it set a record for truck sales. Sales of F-series pickups, the nation's top-selling vehicle for 17 years, were the highest for any car or truck in any month since June 1978.


   *

   In brief

   SHARES OF Gillette, the world's largest maker of razors and blades, fell


$7.75 to $50 after a first-half profit warning from the company, which blamed weak sales in Latin America and in its line of Braun appliances.

SOCIETE GENERALE said its board rejected a $19.2 billion hostile takeover bid by Banque Nationale de Paris SA. Paribas SA, which is being pursued separately by Societe Generale and Banque Nationale, was expected to respond to a $19.7 billion takeover offer from BNP.

KING WORLD Productions will pay as much as $100 million to CBS if the planned $2.5 billion acquisition of the No. 1 distributor of television programs falls through, according to a recent filing.

THE INDEX of Leading Economic Indicators rose 0.2 percent in February, in line with economists' expectations and its fifth straight increase, the Conference Board said.

GAP, the third-largest U.S. clothing store chain, promoted Jenny Ming to president of its Old Navy division. Ming, 43, who helped create the division in 1993, had been executive vice president.

OFFICIALS OF Japan's largest business and banking lobbies met to discuss a government-backed plan to close unneeded factories and cut workers, part of a plan to pull the country out of recession.

Document CLTO000020090629dv4701spu




 Dow falls on earnings jitters, bonds rally, dollar dips. 

 By Richard Chang 
587 words
6 April 1999
23:17
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, April 6 (Reuters) - Blue-chip stocks fell on Tuesday, a day after ending at a record high, as a warning of weak earnings by razor maker Gillette Co. sparked a bout of profit-taking. 

 Bonds rallied and the dollar fell more than a full cent against Europe's single currency when Serbian authorities declared a unilateral ceasefire in Kosovo. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average ended off 43.84 points, or 0.44 percent, at 9,963.49, backing down from Monday's record finish of 10,007.33, its second close above 10,000. 

 In the broader market, declining issues led advances 1,764 to 1,185 on active volume of 785 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 The technology-laced Nasdaq composite index edged up 3.11 points, or 0.12 percent, to 2,563.17, its second consecutive record high close. 

 News of a Serbian ceasefire offer did nothing for stocks. The United States rejected the unilateral ceasefire deal by Yugoslavia and Britain dismissed it as a diplomatic ploy. 

 Stock investors grew nervous after Gillette warned Monday evening that its first-quarter earnings would miss Wall Street estimates. Gillette tumbled 7-7/8 to 50. 

 The big concern was that Gillette's problems stemmed from the slowdown in the global economy, which generates two-thirds of the company's revenues. 

 "It sparked a little wave of paranoia," said Timothy Straus, senior vice president at Jefferies & Co. 

 Mara Glassel, vice president of Prudential Securities Equities Focus Group, added: "It's only a penny, but with the market at such high levels, there's no room for any kind of mistakes." 

 Berkshire Hathaway Inc., the holding company of Nebraska billionaire Warren Buffett, fell 400 points to 72,300. Berkshire Hathaway controls 8.7 percent of Gillette's stock. 

 The first-quarter reporting season officially begins next week. 

 "Stocks are up near their highs, which is a typical sell stop for traders, so it's not unusual for stocks to take a breather at these levels," said A.C. Moore, chief investment strategist at Dunvegan Associates. 

 Analysts said investors are reluctant to push the Dow much further above 10,000 - a number that has been viewed as an important symbol of the bull market's long run - without a fundamental reason. 

 "10,000 is going to be a barrier on the upside until the Street gets some optimistic guidance for the future," said Charles Payne, head analyst at Wall Street Strategies. 

 The profit-taking extended to stocks in the technology sector, which has long been a leader of the bull market. Yahoo Inc., which jumped more than 39 points Monday, dropped 4-1/4 to 214-7/8. 

 The benchmark 30-year Treasury bond rose 31/32, or $9.6875 on a $1,000 bond. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction to the price, fell to 5.52 percent from 5.59 percent at Monday's close. 

 The euro rose to $1.0837 from $1.0715 late on Monday, when many European markets remained closed for the Easter holiday. 

 The dollar fell to 120.60 Japanese yen from 121.85 yen. 

 Overseas, London's FTSE 100 index ended 85.3 points, or 1.35 percent, higher at 6,415.3. Tokyo's Nikkei 225 average was up 144.93 points, or 0.89 percent, at 16,479.71, the highest close since July 21, 1998. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4603juh




 U.S. stocks gain early on jobless rate. 

404 words
5 April 1999
14:56
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, April 5 (Reuters) - Stocks rose in early trading on Monday buoyed by news that the nation's jobless rate sank to its lowest level in nearly 30 years in March and signs the economy was cooling off, which would keep inflation in check. 

 Around 10 a.m. EST (1400 GMT), the Dow Jones industrial average was up 66.04 points, or 0.67 percent, at 9,898.55. 

 The technology-heavy Nasdaq Composite index jumped 31.35 points, or 1.23 percent, to 2,524.02. 

 "We've got a delayed response to the (Friday) unemployment numbers, which eased concerns about spiraling interest rates," said Larry Wachtel, an analyst for Prudential Securities. 

 The U.S. Labour Department reported Friday that the jobless rate fell to 4.2 percent in March, the lowest level since February 1970, but the number of workers on payrolls outside the farm sector grew by just 46,000, the weakest figure in four years. 

 Slower growth is a positive for Wall Street because it means the Federal Reserve is not likely to see a need to raise interest rates in order to cool down the economy. 

 "The bottom line is there is no inflation and that's the good news for the stock market," said Peter Cardillo, director of research for Westfalia investments. 

 While the stock market was closed Friday, bonds rallied on the jobless data and it again edged higher on Monday. 

 The benchmark 30-year Treasury bond rose 4/32, and the yield, which moves inversely to the price, fell to 5.59 percent from 5.60 percent on Friday. 

 Analysts said the market was also focusing on the start of the first-quarter corporate earnings reporting season, which begins next week. 

 "The biggest news on the earnings front this week could well come from pre-announcements," said Charles Hill, director of research at First Call. "This should be one of the peak weeks for the quarter." 

 Dell Computer Corp. meets with analysts later this week in New York. Several analysts have already reduced growth expectations for the company in the wake of a profit warning from competitor Compaq Computer Corp. 

 Dell was up 1-7/16 at 42-5/8 and Compaq inched up 1/8 to 31-5/8. 

 Tokyo stocks ended slightly higher, while European markets were closed for Easter Monday. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4503n8a




 There is often a high price to pay for that coveted Nasdaq listing. 

439 words
2 April 1999
Irish Times
IRTI
55
English
(c) 1999

 For a lot of Irish high-technology companies, the prospect of a Nasdaq flotation is enough to make directors drool. A company can float on huge earnings multiples, directors can make lots of money and there are thousands of investment funds apparently willing to sink their money into virtually any high-tech company with a tale to tell. 

 But then we had the CBT affair where bad news wiped 90 per cent off the value of the Irish software company, directors stepped down and the company's founder, Bill McCabe, came back to try and resurrect the company - after selling $40 million (E37 million) worth of shares a few months before they collapsed. Other Irish high-tech stocks have suffered from the unpredictability of the Nasdaq investor, with Elan knocked back by 25 per cent in the past three weeks on fears over the timetable for the launch of the Ziconotide pain-killing drug. Just yesterday, Iona shares plummeted after a profit-warning for the first quarter. 

 It has been a bad week for Irish firms on Nasdaq. Before Iona's tribulations yesterday, ICON, the clinical trials high-flier was decimated by the market after sounding a profits warning on Tuesday that said earnings growth would be no more (our emphasis) than 30 per cent and that earnings growth next year would be non-existent. ICON's value on the market was duly more than halved in colossal share volumes - 50 times the daily average - as spooked investors rushed to sell. Wall Street, and Nasdaq in particular, is an unforgiving place - and those high multiples that are commonplace on Nasdaq result from high expectations among investors. Any unpleasant surprises mean that the share price gets hockeyed unmercifully. 

 And to top that there are the notoriously long memories of the typical Nasdaq investor. ICON's Peter Gray is probably very over-optimistic when he says it will take a few quarters' trading before ICON's reputation (and rating) in the market is restored. Given how slow the CBT share has been to recover - despite the return of Bill McCabe and Greg Priest - it will take a lot longer than a couple of quarters before ICON recovers. For all that, the reaction on Nasdaq on Tuesday to ICON's profits warnings was grossly exaggerated, and it is simply laughable that a profitable company like ICON can see its value more than halved in the space of a few hours. But then, those are the sort of chances any Irish company aspiring to a Nasdaq listing has to accept. 

Document irti000020010906dv4200vom




 U.S. Shares In London Higher Despite Kosovo Developments 

301 words
1 April 1999
13:14
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 LONDON (Dow Jones)--U.S. shares are slightly higher in thin London-based trading Thursday, with dealers puzzled that stocks are firmer despite the worsening crisis in Kosovo. 

 "In general U.S. shares are slightly firmer," a market maker at Madoff Securities said, adding that trading is modest ahead of the coming Easter holiday weekend. 

 He expects the Dow Jones Industrial Average to open higher later in the session, but to end lower. 

 News Thursday that three U.S. soldiers have been captured by Yugoslav forces looks to have upped the stakes in the Kosovo conflict, and the market might well now have to "swing with American public opinion," the market maker said. 

 Silicon Graphics is the only real feature of the session, down 2 1/2 to $14 after the computer workstations maker said Wednesday that it will report lower revenue and a bigger loss than analysts had expected for its fiscal third quarter. 

 The company set about reversing its fortunes with a turnaround plan some two years ago, after it ran into trouble competing against rivals. The turnaround plan has now been put in doubt, however, analysts said. 

 Other technology stocks in London seem unaffected by the Silicon profit-warning, the Madoff market maker said. 

 At 1135 GMT, the S&P 500 March futures contract was up 4.2 at 1298.20, and U.S. 30-year treasury bonds were up 6/32 at 94.25 with a yield of 5.607%. 

 The DJIA fell 127.1 points, or 1.28%, to 9786.16 Wednesday, with evidence of sharp gains in manufacturing prices fueling jitters about inflation. 

 -By Catherine Taylor; 44-171-832-9114; catherine.taylor@dowjones.com 

 (END) DOW JONES NEWS  04-01-99 

 07:14 AM 

Document dj00000020010826dv4101v4o


 Pill pusher pushes regulators' limits 

404 words
1 April 1999
Business-North Carolina
BNC
Pg. 12
v19, n4
English
Copyright (c) 1999 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved.

 Charlotte, NC, US, South Atlantic -- 

 The N.C. Board of Pharmacy is finding e-commerce can be quite a pill. Late last year, a North Carolina pharmacist sent an e-mail to the board's executive director, David Work, asking him to look at a Web site that promises to help browsers "beat the system" and buy medications, including experimental and unapproved drugs, without prescriptions. Work pulled up the site, which he terms "a do-it- yourself doc-in-a-box," and started digging to see if he could prevent it from doing business in North Carolina. 

 Posted by a Stuart, Fla., company called PrescriptionRx, the site (www.PrescriptionRx.com) promises drug savings of 200% to 400%. It sells a $79.95 software package to "patients" to enter their ailments. The program makes a diagnosis and suggests appropriate drugs. Most you can't get over-the-counter, such as the sedative Valium, the painkiller Vicodin and the impotence drug Viagra. No prescription? No problem. It gives phone numbers, addresses and Web sites of foreign pharmacies where the drugs can be ordered without a doctor's permission. 

 "It's dangerous," Work says. "Drugs are prescribed for a reason. They aren't safe to use without supervision." Not to mention it could mean lost sales for North Carolina pharmacists. No matter how bother-some the board finds the site, it might be forced to live with it. The state can regulate North Carolina sales of pharmacies in other states but not in other countries. 

 "If they're just selling information, it's a gray area," says Brad Stone of the Food and Drug Administration. It's not illegal for a nondoctor to give medical advice. "There's nothing we or the board can do about it." The only possibility, he says, is if the board can prove PrescriptionRx has a direct financial tie with the foreign pharmacists it's touting. That would make it a promoter of unapproved drugs, which is illegal. 

 PrescriptionRx, savvy enough to foresee the heat, says at the bottom of its site that it is simply providing hard-to-find information, a service protected under the First Amendment. The fine print also includes a warning that "self-diagnostic software is not a substitute for a doctor." Of course, that's just below where it talks of bypassing the "pharmaceutical and medical profession mega- profit mongers." 

 Illustration: photograph 

Document bnc0000020010825dv4100016

Search Summary

 Text((“profit*” same “warning*”) or ("disappoint*" same "result*") or ("decreas*" same "profit*") or ("compan*" same "downturn*") or ("unexpect*" same "loss*"))   Date04/01/1999 to 04/30/1999   SourceAll Sources   AuthorAll Authors   CompanyAll Companies   Subject Not Corporate/Industrial News   IndustryAll Industries   RegionUnited States   LanguageEnglish   Results Found88   Timestamp28 March 2018 14:53  
 Page 19 of 19     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

