 
•	 Berlin oil dealer blames fix on accidents, mistakes
•	  Man defends his oil business 
•	  Fundtech reports another difficult quarter 
•	  Man defends his oil business 
•	  Ronson Corporation President's Letter To Shareholders in 1999 Annual Report 
•	 Oliver nears deal with prosecutors
•	  ROYAL CARIBBEAN 
•	  Broad Rally Lifts Nasdaq To 6.6% Gain 
•	  BUSINESS IN BRIEF 
•	  New York Stock Exchange Update 
•	  MBNA Gets a Leg Up In Credit-Card Race --- Bank Focuses on Long-Term Relationships   
•	  Procter and Gamble posts lower earnings 
•	  Oil company owner's trial continues 
•	  Quarterly earnings decline for Harrah"s 
•	  In a Credit-Card Race, an Old-Fashioned Bank Outruns a Flashy Rival   
•	  Lucent Stock Dips Despite Profit 
•	 Wall Street Recovery Moves Into Overdrive Nasdaq Surges 7.2% As Investors Decide Sell-Off Was Overdone 
•	  Stock Market Gains Ground on Strength of Blue-Chips amid High Volatility 
•	  Market rebounds, but remains volatile 
•	  HEADLINE: Investors remain despite Wall Street gains     Market bounces back following last week's record losses 
•	  Market bounces back, but investors remain on edge 
•	  Market bounces back, but investors remain on edge 
•	  Market bounces back, but investors remain on edge 
•	 Don't ever pierce top of your ear, warns doctor
•	  Market Bounces Back, Investors Edgy 
•	  KNIGHT RIDDER, N.Y. TIMES MAKE COST-CUTTING DEAL 
•	  Gates' Loss Is No Win for Banks 
•	  Prudential's Wachtel Says Market Moving On Emotion 
•	  In Only a Few Weeks, Nasdaq Falls 25.3% From Its Pinnacle  
•	 A bull to a bear, Nasdaq may be a strange beast
•	 Nasdaq on brink of a bear market//Volatile market sees a 25 percent fall from peak, but not all parts have done poorly 
•	 BULL MARKET IN HIGH-TECH STOCKS RETREATS UNDER ATTACK BY A BEAR 
•	  BUSINESS DIGEST 
•	 BUSINESS IN BRIEF
•	  Market Savvy SAVVY CONFIDENTIAL / A Briefing for Investors 'Whisper Numbers,' Warning Batter Motorola Shares 
•	  Raytheon Predicts Lower 1Q Earnings 
•	  Tommy Hilfiger's stock plunges after disappointing earnings' outlook 
•	  Raytheon plans to sell engineering division, which is dragging down earnings 
•	  U. Connecticut: CD REVIEW: Various Artists' 'Black Label: Hip-Hop 101' 
•	 MORNING BRIEFING  
•	  Dell Computer Comeback on Wall Street 
•	  ANTITRUST ENFORCEMENT OVERSIGHT 
•	 Venture financing bolsters Giage Inc. 
•	  REVIEW & PREVIEW 
•	  Tommy Hilfiger's stock plunges after disappointing earnings' outlook 
•	 Earnings warning hurts Hilfiger stock; 
•	  Tommy Hilfiger's Stock Plunges 
•	  Housing May Be Off Peaks But Bldg-Pdt Companies Don't Suffer 
•	 stagecoach hit by first profit alert  
•	 PLAYING SOLITAIRE AT WORK? THINK AGAIN SOFTWARE LETS EMPLOYERS KNOW WHAT YOU'RE UP TO 
•	  Will the Economic Good Times Run Out of Gas? 

Berlin oil dealer blames fix on accidents, mistakes

557 words
29 April 2000
New Hampshire Union Leader
XUNL
State
A7
English
Copyright, 2000, Union Leader Corp. Distributed by NewsBank, Inc.   

LACONIA (AP) -- A Berlin oil dealer accused of reneging on promises to deliver cut-rate heating oil to customers in New Hampshire and Maine is blaming his troubles on a series of unforeseen problems.

Jonathan Oliver, 27, of Moultonborough, who owns J.L. Oliver Enterprises, Inc., was on trial this week on charges of consumer fraud. He was accused of selling at least 1,300 customers $625,000 worth of discounted oil he knew he never could deliver.

Prosecutors want him to repay the money, which he collected in advance.

In testimony Thursday in Belknap County Superior Court, Oliver outlined an ambitious plan for expansion, which included construction of two bulk oil storage facilities and acquiring a fleet of new oil delivery trucks.

He had several well-heeled investors willing to loan him money for construction costs and operating capital, he said.

But the state described an entirely difference picture. It produced graphs that showed Oliver's company losing money consistently as he sold his oil for less than he paid for it.

Anne Paquin, a paralegal with the Bureau of Consumer Protection, testified the office started fielding complaints about Oliver's company in December 1999 and had logged 171 telephone calls from concerned customers by month's end.

Customers often could not get through to the company by telephone, or if they did, someone would hang up at the other end.

Oliver said he had planned to build the largest bulk oil storage facility in New Hampshire on 34 acres he owned in Tamworth.

Oliver was to receive $500,000 from investors to build the bulk plant and for operating capital. The deal was guaranteed by the Tamworth property and a second mortgage on his home, Oliver said.

Those plans were stymied, according to Oliver, when the needed state permit took five months to get. Had the bulk plant been in operation, Oliver said, he would have been able to use his tractor trailer to haul oil from his wholesaler, Sprague Energy of Newington, to fill storage tanks. Without it, he had to ferry his delivery trucks back and fourth to the coast to pick up oil.

"It would have saved me time and money," Oliver said.

He said a string of weather-related accidents, which put his trucks out of commission from one day to two weeks, further stalled deliveries. He said it also was difficult to find drivers willing to work weekends.

He said a move to a rented office in Berlin caused telephone problems because of a delay in installing multiple lines.

Oliver also owes more than $800,000 to his heating oil supplier, Sprague Energy of Portsmouth.

Oliver admits he made mistakes but also blames his troubles on a court order preventing him from signing up new customers.

Oliver started his oil business five years ago with a single delivery truck. He moved it to Berlin last summer and lured thousands of prepaid customers with ads offering prices that undercut competitors.

Competing dealers questioned how Oliver could sell at his advertised price and still make a profit. Their warning that he might have trouble arranging deliveries during a winter cold snap came true in December when scores of customers began reporting they could not get their oil delivered. In late January, the deliveries stopped.

Document XUNL000020160203dw4t002tg




 Man defends his oil business 

566 words
29 April 2000
01:47
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 LACONIA, N.H. (AP) - A Berlin oil dealer accused of reneging on promises to deliver cut-rate heating oil to customers in New Hampshire and Maine is blaming his troubles on a series of unforeseen problems. 

 Jonathan Oliver, 27, of Moultonboro, who owns J.L. Oliver Enterprises, Inc., was on trial this week on charges of consumer fraud. A judge took the case under advisement Friday afternoon. 

 Oliver was accused of selling at least 1,300 customers $625,000 worth of discounted oil he knew he never could deliver. 

 Prosecutors want him to repay the money, which he collected in advance. 

 In testimony Thursday in Belknap County Superior Court, Oliver outlined an ambitious plan for expansion, which included construction of two bulk oil storage facilities and acquiring a fleet of new oil delivery trucks. 

 He had several well-heeled investors willing to loan him money for construction costs and operating capital, he said. 

 But the state described an entirely difference picture. It produced graphs that showed Oliver's company losing money consistently as he sold his oil for less than he paid for it. 

 Anne Paquin, a paralegal with the Bureau of Consumer Protection, testified the office started fielding complaints about Oliver's company in December 1999 and had logged 171 telephone calls from concerned customers by month's end. 

 Customers often could not get through to the company by telephone, or if they did, someone would hang up at the other end. 

 Oliver said he had planned to build the largest bulk oil storage facility in New Hampshire on 34 acres he owned in Tamworth. 

 Oliver was to receive $500,000 from investors to build the bulk plant and for operating capital. The deal was guaranteed by the Tamworth property and a second mortgage on his home, Oliver said. 

 Those plans were stymied, according to Oliver, when the needed state permit took five months to get. 

 Had the bulk plant been in operation, Oliver said, he would have been able to use his tractor trailer to haul oil from his wholesaler, Sprague Energy of Newington, to fill storage tanks. Without it, he had to ferry his delivery trucks back and fourth to the coast to pick up oil. 

 "It would have saved me time and money," Oliver said. 

 He said a string of weather-related accident, which put his trucks out of commission from one day to two weeks, further stalled deliveries. He said it also was difficult to find drivers willing to work weekends. 

 He said a move to a rented office in Berlin caused telephone problems because of a delay in installing multiple lines. 

 Oliver also owes more than $800,000 to his heating oil supplier, Sprague Energy of Portsmouth. 

 Oliver admits he made mistakes but also blames his troubles on a court order preventing him from signing up new customers. 

 Oliver started his oil business five years ago with a single delivery truck. He moved it to Berlin last summer and lured thousands of prepaid customers with ads offering prices that undercut competitors. 

 Competing dealers questioned how Oliver could sell at his advertised price and still make a profit. Their warning that he might have trouble arranging deliveries during a winter cold snap came true in December when scores of customers began reporting they could not get their oil delivered. In late January, the deliveries stopped. 

Rush

Document aprs000020010803dw4t08wq9




 Economics 
 Fundtech reports another difficult quarter 

 NICKY BLACKBURN 
380 words
28 April 2000
The Jerusalem Post
JPST
Daily
09A
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 After a troubled seven months, software solutions company Fundtech Ltd. has reported yet another difficult quarter, with net losses of $748,000 or $0.05 per share, compared with net income of $1.8 million, or $0.16 per diluted share in the same quarter of 1999. 

 Fundtech Ltd., which offers software solutions for e- commerce and e-banking, first ran into difficulties in October last year when fears amongst the financial community about the impact of Y2K led to lengthy sales cycles. 

 The company issued a profit warning that third quarter results would be lower than expected and in the fourth quarter of 1999, net losses reached $1.6m. or $0.11 per share, down dramatically from net profits of $2.2m. or $0.20 per share in 1998. 

 Despite the disappointment over this year's first quarter losses, Fundtech's chairman and CEO, Reuven Ben- Menachem, said he believes the company is on the road to recovery. 

 "We have clearly regained our momentum and put Y2K concerns behind us," he said in a statement. 

 Revenues for the first quarter of this year grew by 27 percent to $10m., compared to the same period of 1999. 

 BackWeb's sales up 117% 

 Increasing demand for e-business solutions from push technology provider BackWeb Technologies has led to revenue growth of 117 percent in the first quarter compared to the same period of last year, the company said on Wednesday. 

 BackWeb, which is based in Ramat Gan and San Jose, California, saw its sales grow to $8.9m. in the first quarter of this year. The results also showed a 13% rise from the last quarter of 1999. 

 Including amortization charges related to a previous acquisition and deferred stock compensation, BackWeb's net losses for the first quarter stood at  $2.2 million, or $0.06 per share compared to a net loss of $3.7 million, or $0.16 per share in the first quarter of 1999. 

 "This growth [in revenues] was driven by our continued success in the business-to-business sector, by increasing demand from existing customers, and by an aggressive effort to implement BackWeb beyond individual departments to the entire enterprise," said Eli Barkat, BackWeb's chairman and CEO. 

Document jpst000020010807dw4s00547




 Man defends his oil business 

557 words
28 April 2000
21:13
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 LACONIA, N.H. (AP) - A Berlin oil dealer accused of reneging on promises to deliver cut-rate heating oil to customers in New Hampshire and Maine is blaming his troubles on a series of unforeseen problems. 

 Jonathan Oliver, 27, of Moultonboro, who owns J.L. Oliver Enterprises, Inc., was on trial this week on charges of consumer fraud. He was accused of selling at least 1,300 customers $625,000 worth of discounted oil he knew he never could deliver. 

 Prosecutors want him to repay the money, which he collected in advance. 

 In testimony Thursday in Belknap County Superior Court, Oliver outlined an ambitious plan for expansion, which included construction of two bulk oil storage facilities and acquiring a fleet of new oil delivery trucks. 

 He had several well-heeled investors willing to loan him money for construction costs and operating capital, he said. 

 But the state described an entirely difference picture. It produced graphs that showed Oliver's company losing money consistently as he sold his oil for less than he paid for it. 

 Anne Paquin, a paralegal with the Bureau of Consumer Protection, testified the office started fielding complaints about Oliver's company in December 1999 and had logged 171 telephone calls from concerned customers by month's end. 

 Customers often could not get through to the company by telephone, or if they did, someone would hang up at the other end. 

 Oliver said he had planned to build the largest bulk oil storage facility in New Hampshire on 34 acres he owned in Tamworth. 

 Oliver was to receive $500,000 from investors to build the bulk plant and for operating capital. The deal was guaranteed by the Tamworth property and a second mortgage on his home, Oliver said. 

 Those plans were stymied, according to Oliver, when the needed state permit took five months to get. 

 Had the bulk plant been in operation, Oliver said, he would have been able to use his tractor trailer to haul oil from his wholesaler, Sprague Energy of Newington, to fill storage tanks. Without it, he had to ferry his delivery trucks back and fourth to the coast to pick up oil. 

 "It would have saved me time and money," Oliver said. 

 He said a string of weather-related accident, which put his trucks out of commission from one day to two weeks, further stalled deliveries. He said it also was difficult to find drivers willing to work weekends. 

 He said a move to a rented office in Berlin caused telephone problems because of a delay in installing multiple lines. 

 Oliver also owes more than $800,000 to his heating oil supplier, Sprague Energy of Portsmouth. 

 Oliver admits he made mistakes but also blames his troubles on a court order preventing him from signing up new customers. 

 Oliver started his oil business five years ago with a single delivery truck. He moved it to Berlin last summer and lured thousands of prepaid customers with ads offering prices that undercut competitors. 

 Competing dealers questioned how Oliver could sell at his advertised price and still make a profit. Their warning that he might have trouble arranging deliveries during a winter cold snap came true in December when scores of customers began reporting they could not get their oil delivered. In late January, the deliveries stopped. 

Rush

Document aprs000020010803dw4s08udx




 Ronson Corporation President's Letter To Shareholders in 1999 Annual Report 

1,424 words
27 April 2000
20:53
PR Newswire
PRN
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, PR Newswire) 


SOMERSET, N.J., April 27 /PRNewswire/ -- Ronson Corporation (Nasdaq: RONC;
OTC Bulletin Board: RONCP).  Following is a copy of the President's Letter to
Shareholders dated April 24, 2000, being included in Ronson Corporation's 1999
Annual Report.
                                                     PRESIDENT'S REVIEW
                                                     April 24, 2000
  Dear Shareholder:
  The Company's Net Sales in 1999 increased by 7% to $24,696,000 from
  $23,173,000 in 1998.  Earnings from Continuing Operations were $292,000 in
  1999.  After a special charge of $486,000 from the Discontinued Operations
  of Prometcor, Inc. in the third and fourth quarters of 1999, the Company
  had a Net Loss in 1999 of $194,000 as compared to a Net Loss in 1998 of
  $289,000.
  PROMETCOR, INC.



 - WINDING DOWN OF DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
  After a $6,500,000 cost to the Company during nine years of cleanup
  operations, a significant milestone has been reached in the Company's
  environmental clearance of the Prometcor property in Newark, New Jersey.
  On February 10, 2000, the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission
  (NRC) released for "unrestricted use", such as housing, the land where
  Prometcor's recently demolished factories once stood.  This land is one
  of the two remaining land parcels of the Prometcor property.  A similar
  release of this land for unrestricted use is required from the New Jersey
  Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP).  This release is expected
  soon.  Upon receipt, the first land parcel will be sold for about $200,000
  as part of an existing sales contract totaling $595,000.  The land for the
  second parcel will be sold for $295,000 later this year.  In addition, in
  August 1999, as part of the sales contract, the Company sold a separate
  parcel for $100,000.
  In reaching this milestone, in the second half of 1999 the Company
  incurred unanticipated costs, resulting in a reported charge of $486,000.
  This was due to the accrual of additional costs and expenses projected for
  Prometcor to complete compliance with environmental requirements.
  Of significance, in August 1999, the Company engaged a preeminent New
  Jersey law firm in the area of insurance recovery as the Company's special
  counsel to pursue a claim for reimbursement of environmental costs,
  primarily groundwater, at Prometcor.  The Company's counsel has undertaken
  this matter on a contingency basis for its legal fees.  The company has
  filed a lawsuit against twelve of its former general liability insurance
  carriers seeking recovery for environmental investigation and remediation
  costs incurred and anticipated primarily at Prometcor.  Counsel has stated
  that Ronson has a strong claim with a reasonable possibility of obtaining
  a sizeable recovery.  The Company has made no provision in its earnings or
  financial statements for the year 1999 in anticipation of an expected
  recovery.
  After years of costly, time consuming efforts and uncertainties, the
  entire Prometcor property is expected to be released by the NRC and the
  NJDEP before the end of this year.  Groundwater monitoring will continue.
  RONSQN CONSUMER PRODUCTS CORPORATION (RCPC)
  Ronson Consumer Products Corporation (RCPC) continues to make substantial
  contributions to the Company's operating profits despite the adverse
  effect of lost sales and costs related to a voluntary short-term
  withdrawal of the Company's utility lighter (Ignitor) from the Canadian
  market.
  In July 1999, Health Canada, an agency of the Canadian government,
  notified Canadian distributors of its concern about utility lighters
  produced by seventeen Far Eastern manufacturers.  This was followed by a
  public warning to Canadian consumers.  Ronson Canada's Ignitor was one of
  those seventeen utility lighters listed.  The Company cooperated fully
  with Health Canada.  Our Canadian Ignitor sales resumed in December 1999.
  Nevertheless, RCPC's sizeable operating earnings in the second half of
  1999 were reduced by about $187,000.  This non-recurring charge does not
  include the negative effect of lost sales.
  Today's lighter market in the USA and Canada vastly differs from the
  makeup of the market that existed 15 or more years ago.  The traditional
  lighter market is virtually as extinct as dinosaurs.  The current USA
  market is composed primarily of disposable lighters and is huge, about
  500 million disposable lighters are sold annually in the USA alone.
  We are focusing on lighters selling at a lower price, but which meet our
  high quality standards.  Our lighters are not of the disposable type.
  Instead they are refillable and use Ronson butane fuel and flints.  We
  are as interested in selling these lighter accessories as razor companies
  are interested in selling their blades.
  To compete in this sizeable market, we have a refillable type lighter that
  is priced in line with the leading brands of disposables.  Ronson's Ronii
  is that lighter and is priced to compete with brand name disposable
  lighters.  Presently, Ronii's sales percentage of this market is small
  with much opportunity for growth.  In 1999, Ronii sales exceeded 1998's
  sales by more than 30%.  Keep in mind, the Ronii refillable lighter uses
  Ronson Multi-Fill butane fuel and Ronson flints.
  Sales of the Ronson Windii windproof lighter with its uniquely designed
  and efficient windscreen were also much higher in 1999.  Always remember,
  the Windii lighter is fueled by Ronsonol and sparked with a Ronson flint.
  During 1999's Second Half, we introduced a new flameless lighter called
  the Ronson Euro Lite.  It is attractively designed and has superior
  function. The Euro Lite, with its "blue point flame" priced at $19.95 is a
  windproof, refillable butane liqhter which is great for pipes and cigars.
  It comes in four new finishes and is packaged in an attractive gift box.
  The Euro Lite has been well received by the trade and consumer alike.  Its
  growth is just beginning.
  Ronson has registered its new brand "ArTek" in a number of countries
  throughout the world.  While we continue to focus on the important Ronson
  brand name in our markets, we have developed the ArTek brand for lighters
  and flame accessories to obtain new export sales into overseas markets.
  With the ArTek brand in place, we expect to initiate overseas sales of
  ArTek products during the second half of this year.
  As you were advised in December, we now have the Ronson Corporation web
  store at http://www.ronsonstore.com.  Initially we are offering only a
  special selection of our products on the web.  Later there will be
  additional products for sale on the web store.
  Ronson has accelerated the development of new products with an increased
  Research and Development budget.  Our engineering staff has been expanded.
  Additional new products utilizing Ronson fuel, not associated with
  tobacco, should come to market by the end of this year.
  RONSON AVIATION, INC. (RAI)
  Ronson Aviation, Inc.'s (RAI) sales in 1999 were $8,600,000, an increase
  of 15% over 1998.  RAI's earnings before taxes in 1999 were $52,000, which
  was less than 1998.
  First quarter 2000 sales at RAI have increased over 1999's first quarter
  even though aircraft sales have not improved.  Slow sales of aircraft in
  1999 continue into 2000.  They are expected to increase during the balance
  of 2000 along with an earnings improvement at RAI.
  RAI completed construction of a new $430,000 state-of-the-art fuel
  facility with tank capacities of 50,000 gallons of jet-A fuel and 8,000
  gallons of avgas.  This new facility, which replaces old and outmoded fuel
  tanks, meets mandatory requirements of the NJDEP and the Federal
  Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).  The resulting increased efficiency
  of the fueling operation enables us to improve customer services.
  With the expected improvement in RAI sales and earnings, as previously
  reported to you, we are exploring the fit of RAI into the Company's
  overall business.  This is not the first time in recent years that this
  matter has been reviewed in depth by the Company.
  OUTLOOK
  Ronson Corporation is on sound footing.  Our confidence for long term
  profit and growth is greatly enhanced by the prospect of the forthcoming
  release by the NRC and NJDEP of the entire Prometcor property.  The
  elimination of substantial costs associated with the Prometcor cleanup
  will free cash flow from continuing operations to maximize value for all
  Ronson stockholders.
  We will build upon the renowned Ronson brand name.  Our short- and
  long-term plans are in effect and working.  We look forward to
  improvements in sales and earnings this year and in the years to come.
                                      Sincerely,
                                      Louis V. Aronson II
                                      President and Chief Executive Officer


Document prn0000020010812dw4r01or5


Oliver nears deal with prosecutors

565 words
26 April 2000
New Hampshire Union Leader
XUNL
State
B1
English
Copyright, 2000, Union Leader Corp. Distributed by NewsBank, Inc.   

LACONIA (AP) -- A Berlin oil dealer accused of reneging on promises to deliver cut-rate heating oil to customers in New Hampshire and Maine appears ready to strike a deal with prosecutors.

Jonathan Oliver, 27, was in Belknap County Superior Court Monday to defend himself against allegations that he sold at least 1,300 customers $625,000 worth of discounted oil he knew he never could deliver.

Judge Harold Perkins was about to adjourn the proceedings after numerous delays and interruptions when Oliver suddenly asked to address the court.

"I would respectfully offer a default on this case to save everybody some time," Oliver said.

Perkins said he wasn't certain what Oliver meant and suggested he discuss the matter with prosecutors. Oliver agreed and said he would first talk with his lawyer.

As he left the courtroom, Oliver said he intended to take responsibility for his debts and somehow repay customers. But doing so may be tough.

At issue is how much his company, J.L. Oliver Enterprises, will owe, to whom and how the money will be collected. At the moment Oliver has no job, expects the bank to repossess his remaining oil trucks and lives with his parents. Oliver also owes more than $800,000 to his heating oil supplier, Sprague Energy of Portsmouth.

Oliver admits he made mistakes but also blames his troubles on a court order preventing him from signing up new customers.

"I made a lot of mistakes, I admit, but the state had a lot to do with it," he said. "If I was in business today, I would be paying these people back, but the state has not let that happen."

Meanwhile, prosecutors are asking Perkins for another court order, this one barring Oliver from starting any more pre-buy business ventures until he has repaid the money he owes.

Oliver's former lawyer, Bob Bradfield, has blamed some of his client's problems on the skyrocketing cost of oil. He has said the price of home heating oil was expected to drop this past winter; instead it shot up.

Oliver started his oil business five years ago with a single delivery truck. He moved it to Berlin last summer and lured thousands of prepaid customers with ads offering prices that undercut competitors. Competing dealers questioned how Oliver could sell at his advertised price and still make a profit. Their warning that he might have trouble arranging deliveries during a winter cold snap came true in December, when scores of customers began reporting that they could not get their oil delivered. In late January, the deliveries stopped.

Customers often could not get through to the company by telephone, or if they did, someone would hang up at the other end. Many were told the oil would be delivered, but it never came. Some people ran out of oil during the late December cold snap, and had to buy from other dealers at much higher prices.

All the while, Oliver continued advertising in newspapers for new business, even though it was clear that he was having difficulty servicing existing customers. He pulled the ads only when a judge ordered him to.

Oliver angered people even more when he testified in court that he recently had made the last payments on a $16,000 boat and had bought a $4,000 all-terrain vehicle.

Document XUNL000020160203dw4q002pt




On the record
 BUSINESS 
 ROYAL CARIBBEAN 

967 words
26 April 2000
Orlando Sentinel
ORSE
METRO
B5
English
 (Copyright 2000 by The Orlando Sentinel) 

 MIAMI - Royal Caribbean Cruises, the world's No.2 cruise line company, reported a 17 percent gain in first-quarter profit. Royal posted profit of $105.5 million, or 55 cents a share, for the three months ended March 31, up from $90.2 million, or 49 cents, in the year-earlier quarter. The company reported revenue of $707.8 million for the first quarter, compared  with $610 million for the same quarter a year ago. The figures were close to what analysts predicted. Citing competition, Royal Caribbean Chairman Richard D. Fain said yields for the rest of the year would be flat or slightly better than last year. Next month, Royal Caribbean will begin sailing its 2,600-passenger Sovereign of the Seas from Port Canaveral. 

 - COLUMBIA/HCA 

 NASHVILLE, Tenn. - Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp. said on Tuesday its first-quarter profit rose a much-higher-than-expected 12.9 percent, reflecting in part a 6.4 percent rise in revenue from the hospitals and clinics it still owns after the sale of a large number of facilities in the past year. The nation's largest operator of hospitals said its profit before one-time items rose to $306 million, or 53 cents per diluted share, against $271 million, or 42 cents per share in the year-earlier period. After restructuring costs, proceeds from sales and expenses from defending itself in a federal investigation, Columbia/HCA earnings were $296 million, or 52 cents per diluted share, against $322 million, or 50 cents in the year- earlier period. First-quarter revenue fell to $4.3 billion from $4.7 billion a year earlier, reflecting a 31 percent drop in the number of hospitals it owns. 

 - LOCKHEED  MARTIN 

 NEW YORK - Lockheed Martin Corp., the world's largest defense contractor, Tuesday reported better-than-expected first-quarter profit, although sales and comparable operating earnings fell year- over-year. Bethesda, Md.-based Lockheed said it earned $54 million, or 14 cents a share, compared with a loss of $87 million, or 23 cents a share, in the same year-ago quarter. Excluding one-time items, including a large accounting adjustment in the year-ago period, Lockheed earned 12 cents a share, compared with 51 cents a year earlier. Analysts had on average expected earnings of 10 cents a share before one-time items, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. Sales fell 10 percent, to $5.56 billion, from $6.19 billion a year earlier. 

 - REEBOK INTERNATIONAL 

 STOUGHTON, Mass. - Reebok International Ltd., which has struggled with declining sales in a stagnant market for athletic shoes, Tuesday reported an increase in first-quarter profit that beat analysts' forecasts as expense-cutting efforts paid off. The Stoughton, Mass.- based company said first-quarter profit reached $31.7 million, or 56 cents a share, a 77 percent increase from the $17.9 million, or 32 cents a share, Reebok earned in the first three months of 1999. Sales dipped slightly to $769.8 million from $785.8 million. 

 - DUPONT CO. 

 WILMINGTON, Del. - DuPont Co., the No.1 U.S. chemical company, Tuesday reported a sharp jump in first-quarter earnings, beating expectations and overcoming high raw material costs by boosting overall sales of its plastics and chemicals. The company said including one-time items in both periods and discontinued operations in 1999, profit rose to $803 million, or 76 cents a share, compared with $663 million, or 58 cents a share, in 1999. DuPont said it was helped by strong total sales, which rose to $7.94 billion from $6.31 billion a year ago. 

 - PROCTER & GAMBLE CO. 

 CINCINNATI - Consumer products giant Procter & Gamble Co. on Tuesday said its third-quarter profit fell 11 percent before charges, in line with a warning it issued in March. The Cincinnati-based maker of Tide laundry detergent and Crest toothpaste said it earned 64 cents a diluted share in the quarter ended March 31, before charges of $170 million related to its reorganization announced in 1999. Including the charge, P&G earned $753 million or 52 cents a share. Revenue in the quarter rose 6 percent to $9.78 billion from a year earlier. 

 - EXXON MOBIL CORP. 

 IRVING, Texas - Exxon Mobil Corp., the No.1 U.S. oil company, on Tuesday said first-quarter profit more than doubled, beating analysts' expectations thanks to some of the strongest oil prices in recent memory. The oil giant said first-quarter profit, excluding special charges and merger expenses, rose to $3.35 billion, or 95 cents a share, from $1.61 billion, or 46 cents a share, in the same period last year on a pro forma basis. Including net merger effects of $130 million, profit surged to $3.5 billion from $1.5 billion, the company said. First-quarter revenue rose to $55.1 billion from $38.7 billion in the year-earlier period. 

 - TANDY CORP. 

 FORT WORTH, Texas - Tandy Corp., owner of RadioShack stores, Tuesday reported first-quarter profit higher than expected, driven by strong sales of satellite-TV dishes. The  company said that for the period ended March 31, profit rose to $69.7 million, or 35 cents a share, from $55.9 million, or 27 cents, a year ago. Sales rose 18 percent to $1.05 billion from $890.2 million. Excluding adjustments for early vesting of RadioShack managers' stock options in each of the quarters and excluding a gain on the sale of investments in the just-completed quarter, Tandy had a profit from operations of $67.9 million, or 34 cents a share, up from $52.8 million, or 25 cents. On that basis, the results bested analyst forecasts of 31 cents a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

Compiled from staff and wire reports.

Document orse000020010809dw4q00lnx




THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS
 Business/Financial Desk; Section C 
 Broad Rally Lifts Nasdaq To 6.6% Gain 

 By KENNETH N. GILPIN 
1,265 words
26 April 2000
The New York Times
NYTF
Page 1, Column 5
English
 c. 2000 New York Times Company 

 Stock prices staged a broad rally yesterday, with the Nasdaq composite index recording its third-biggest percentage gain. 

 The increase continues the wild gyrations in prices that have occurred during April, and it came just a day after the technology-heavy Nasdaq index was battered on worries about Microsoft, the industry's bellwether company. 

 Three of the 10 biggest daily percentage gains in Nasdaq history have occurred this month, but so have four of its largest declines. 

 ''This is kind of manic behavior,'' said Philip S. Dow, a managing director in equity research at Dain Rauscher Wessels in Minneapolis. ''I think it will be a feature of the market for some time to come. Institutions are struggling to determine what sort of valuation metrics they are going to use on technology stocks.'' 

 The Nasdaq opened the session strong and moved higher as the day progressed. At the close, the index was up 228.75 points, or 6.6 percent, to 3,711.23. The strength was extremely broad-based; 96 stocks in the Nasdaq 100 index rose. 

 Other market indexes posted big gains, although not as large as Nasdaq's. Led by technology stalwarts like Intel, Hewlett-Packard and I.B.M., the Dow Jones industrial average gained 218.72 points, or 2 percent, to 11,124.82. It was the first time the Dow had closed above 11,000 since April 12. 

 The stocks comprising the Standard & Poor's 500 index had an extremely good day: the index rose 47.58 points, or 3.3 percent, to 1,477.44. Of the stocks in the index, 415 rose in price, while 74 declined. 

 And the small stocks that make up the Russell 2000 index rallied. The index gained 20.49 points, or 4.4 percent, to 489.03. 

 Traders and analysts were at a loss to identify the catalyst for yesterday's rally. It is especially curious since financial markets will be asked tomorrow to digest important information on inflation and the economy. Traders and investors normally become cautious in advance of such reports. 

 Moreover, the strong performance in stocks came on a day when market interest rates rose sharply. 

 ''Could this be another bear trap or sucker rally?'' asked Kenneth M. Sheinberg, head of listed trading at SG Cowen. ''There is a possibility for that. But I think we can carry through a little bit more because no one expects it.'' 

 Tomorrow, the government is expected to release first-quarter employment cost and gross domestic product data, numbers that will carry weight at the Federal Reserve Board. Fed policy makers are widely expected to approve another increase in short-term interest rates next month. 

 Concerns about interest rates seemed far from the minds of most investors and traders yesterday, because buyers far outnumbered sellers. On the New York Stock Exchange, roughly twice as many stocks rose in price as fell. 

 Stocks in the Dow average that shone were led by Intel, which climbed 8 7/8, to 125. Hewlett-Packard gained 7, to 139 5/16. I.B.M. was up 5 7/8, to 112 3/8. Microsoft rebounded from a sharp 15.6 percent sell-off on Monday to rise 2 3/4, to 69 3/8. And General Electric closed at 165 3/4, a new high, after rising 3 3/4. 

 Other big winners on the Nasdaq included Qualcomm, which rose 5 5/16, to 104 15/16; JDS Uniphase, which jumped 13, to 93 5/16; and Sun Microsystems, which closed at 93 3/4, up 6 1/8. 

 Procter & Gamble and Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing were two high-profile stocks that lost ground.  P.& G., which was battered last month after it issued a profit warning for the rest of its fiscal year, fell 6 3/16, to 64 5/16, after it released results for its third quarter. 

 3M fell 3 11/16, to 93 13/16, after it said profits for all of this year might fall short of Wall Street's rosiest estimates. The diversified manufacturer issued that warning as it topped earnings estimates for the first quarter. 

 ''Every 48 hours more stocks are oversold than overbought,'' said Bill Schneider, head of equity block trading at Warburg Dillon Read. ''We are in a range-bound, 48-hour trading cycle. It must drive people to take a lot of Mylanta. But people are not as threatened by volatility as they used to be.'' 


                         --------------------



Bond Prices Are Down



By Bloomberg News



Treasury bond prices fell on concern that reports later this week
will show that the economy did not slow much and that inflation
accelerated in the first quarter.



Bond investors are concerned that economic growth ''is going to come
in at a higher number than is sustainable,'' said Dave Weigert, who
helps invest $25 billion in fixed income at Aeltus Investment Management
in Hartford. He has put new capital in cash to reinvest as the Federal
Reserve raises interest rates. ''Those numbers will clarify in people's
minds that the Fed does need to move at least two more times and maybe
three'' this year, after five rate increases since June, he said.



The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 28/32, to 104 13/32. The
bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose
to 5.93 percent from 5.87 percent on Monday.


 Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C12) Tables: ''Hot & Cold'' provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C12) Chart: ''Volatility Defined After yesterday's rise in the Nasdaq composite index, three of its best days and four of its worst have occurred this month. BEST DAYS: Oct. 21, 1987 LOSE: 351.86 INCREASE: + 7.34 BEST DAYS: April 18, 2000 CLOSE: 3,793.57 INCREASE: + 7.19 BEST DAYS: Yesterday CLOSE: 3,711.23 INCREASE: + 6.57 BEST DAYS: April 17, 2000 CLOSE: 3,539.16 INCREASE: + 6.56 BEST DAYS: Sept. 8, 1998 CLOSE: 1,660.86 INCREASE: + 6.02 BEST DAYS: Oct. 30, 1987 CLOSE: 323.30 INCREASE: + 5.29 BEST DAYS: Oct. 29, 1987 CLOSE: 307.05 INCREASE: + 5.20 BEST DAYS: Oct. 9, 1998 CLOSE: 1,492.49 INCREASE: + 5.17 BEST DAYS: Sept. 1, 1998 CLOSE: 1,575.09 INCREASE: + 5.06 BEST DAYS: Oct. 15, 1998 CLOSE: 1,611.01 INCREASE: + 4.55 WORST DAYS: Oct. 19, 1987 CLOSE: 360.21 DECLINE: 11.35 WORST DAYS: April 14, 2000 CLOSE: 3,321.29 DECLINE: -9.67 WORST DAYS: Oct. 20, 1987 CLOSE: 327.79 DECLINE: -9.00 WORST DAYS: Oct. 26, 1987 CLOSE: 298.90 DECLINE: -9.00 WORST DAYS: Aug. 31, 1998 CLOSE: 1,499.25 DECLINE: -8.56 WORST DAYS: April 3, 2000 CLOSE: 4,223.68 DECLINE: -7.64 WORST DAYS: April 12, 2000 CLOSE: 3,769.63 DECLINE: -7.06 WORST DAYS: Oct. 27, 1997 CLOSE: 1,535.09 DECLINE: -7.02 WORST DAYS: March 27, 1980 CLOSE: 124.09 DECLINE: -6.15 WORST DAYS: April 10, 2000 CLOSE: 4,188.20 DECLINE: -5.81 (Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Associated Press)(pg. C12) 

Document nytf000020010809dw4q00mll




 Business 
 BUSINESS IN BRIEF 

Bloomberg News and Bridge News.
1,376 words
26 April 2000
The Star-Ledger Newark, NJ
NSL
FINAL
045
English
 (c) 2000. The Star-Ledger. All rights reserved. 

 Exxon Mobil's profits double on oil prices Exxon Mobil Corp., the world's largest publicly traded oil company, yesterday said first-quarter earnings more than doubled as oil and natural-gas prices surged. 

 Profit from operations rose to $3.35 billion, or 95 cents a share, from a pro-forma $1.61 billion, or 46 cents, a year earlier. This is Exxon Mobil's first full quarter since the company was formed in November by Exxon Corp.'s $85.2 billion purchase of Mobil Corp. Sales rose 42 percent to $55.1 billion from $38.7 billion. 

 Exxon Mobil topped the 90-cent average estimate of analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial because fuel-selling profit improved markedly late in the quarter, analysts said. Exxon Mobil is the world's biggest refiner. 

 ''Refining and marketing came in substantially stronger" than expectations, said Matthew Warburton, an oil analyst at Warburg Dillon Read. Data services boost SBC's bottom line SBC Communications Inc., the largest U.S. local-telephone company, said first-quarter profit rose 12 percent on higher revenue from data services and its wireless business. 

 Profit from operations rose to $1.91 billion, or 56 cents a share, from $1.71 billion, or 49 cents, a year earlier. SBC was expected to earn 52 cents, the average analyst estimate in a First Call/Thomson Financial analyst survey. Revenue rose 8.4 percent to $12.6 billion from $11.6 billion. 

 SBC and other local-phone companies are trying to boost revenue from fast-growing services like wireless, data and international to compensate for slower growth in the traditional telephone business. Carriers such as San Antonio-based SBC are facing competition for local-phone subscribers from other companies entering their markets. 

 ''The SBC of tomorrow is a data company not a phone company," said Jeffrey Kagan, an independent telecommunications analyst based in Atlanta. "They've done a remarkable job in the last few years changing the company from a voice company to a data company." 

 Data revenue in the quarter rose 41 percent to $1.6 billion. Wireless sales in the U.S. increased 30 percent to $1.5 billion, as the number of wireless customers rose by the same amount. Strong sales lift EBay's profits EBay Inc., the biggest Internet auctioneer, said first-quarter profit rose and sales doubled as the value of goods sold on its site passed $1 billion. It also declared a 2-for-1 stock split. Net income rose to $6.3 million, or 5 cents a share, from $3.8 million, or 3 cents a share, a year ago. Sales rose to $85.8 million from $42.8 million, exceeding the $80.2 million forecast of analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 EBay boosted marketing of its site and continued to expand into new areas such as regional U.S. markets and abroad to stay ahead of rival auctions at Yahoo Inc. and Amazon.com Inc. Its shares have fallen 37 percent the past month as investors backed away from Internet and technology stocks. Acquisition costs bite Nortel Nortel Networks Corp., North America's No. 2 phone-equipment maker, reported a first-quarter loss as the company began to write down the cost of buying Qtera Corp., a startup with no sales or profit. Nortel had a loss of $722 million, or 52 cents a share, compared with a loss of $179 million, or 14 cents, a year earlier. 

 The company began writing down costs stemming from its stock purchase of Qtera in January for as much as $3.25 billion. Revenue jumped 48 percent to $6.32 billion as Nortel sold more fiber-optic equipment and sales of wireless gear rebounded. Sales of traditional voice switches also rose. Compaq Computer profits unchanged Compaq Computer Corp., the world's biggest personal computer maker, said first-quarter profit was unchanged as large companies ordered fewer machines in January and February. Profit from operations was $281 million, or 16 cents a share, the same as the net income for the year-earlier period, when the company slashed its profit forecast in half, leading to the ouster of Chief Executive Eckhard Pfeiffer. 

 Sales rose 1 percent to $9.51 billion from $9.42 billion. Compaq's corporate customers were slow to resume PC purchases after the year 2000 rollover. Personal computer shipments from manufacturers worldwide rose a less-than-expected 15 percent in the first quarter, researcher Dataquest Inc. reported yesterday. International Paper in bid for Champion International Paper Co., the world's biggest paper maker, made an unsolicited $8.34 billion offer for Champion International Corp., topping by 21 percent a bid from Finnish rival UPM-Kymmene Oyj. The company said it would pay $43 in cash and $21 in stock for each share, and assume $2.3 billion in debt. The offer was 24 percent more than Champion's closing price Monday. 

 Champion said it would consider the proposal. UPM, which declined to comment, has seen its shares drop 18 percent since it reached the all-stock agreement with Champion in February. Buying Champion would give International Paper more than a third of the global market in the type paper used in offices, up from about 25 percent. JDS Uniphase reports a loss JDS Uniphase Corp., the biggest maker of parts used in fiber-optic equipment, reported a fiscal third-quarter loss of $240.9 million because of acquisition costs. The loss of 32 cents share for the quarter ended March 31 includes expenses for various acquisitions. The company said that without the costs, it would have had a profit of $85.8 million, or 11 cents a share. On that basis, it was expected to earn 10 cents a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Sales were $394.6 million as Lucent Technologies Inc. and other phone-equipment makers bought more parts to meet demand from telecommunications companies, which are expanding their networks to handle the mounting tide of Internet traffic. Hess' profits jump fivefold Amerada Hess Corp., which explores for oil and natural gas in the U.S. and the North Sea, said first-quarter profit jumped more than fivefold as oil prices reached their highest level since 1990. 

 Net income rose to $224 million, or $2.47 a share, from profit from operations of $41 million, or 46 cents, a year earlier. Revenue climbed 74 percent to $2.87 billion from $1.65 billion. 

 Exploration profit surged eightfold to $218 million as Amerada Hess sold crude oil for an average $24.50 a barrel, more than double the price of a year earlier. Amerada Hess, one of the biggest fuel sellers in the New York City area, said refining and marketing profit fell 9.4 percent to $53 million as fuel prices failed to keep up with rising oil costs. Xerox earnings slide following restructuring Xerox Corp., the world's biggest photocopier maker, said first-quarter income fell 36 percent but beat analysts' estimates as profits were hurt by an internal restructuring program. 

 The Stamford, Conn.-based company posted operating earnings of $220 million, or 36 cents a share, from $343 million, or 48 cents, for the same period a year ago. The latest earnings topped the 25 cents a share predicted by analysts polled by First Call Corp. 

 Investors cheered the better-than-expected results as the shares soared 3-5/16, or 13.73 percent, to 27-7/16 in morning trading on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Revenue for the quarter rose 3 percent to $4.44 billion, helped by increasing sales overseas. DuPont issues second-quarter warning DuPont Co., the world's biggest chemical company, said first-quarter profit rose 20 percent on higher demand, though its shares fell on concern second-quarter earnings will disappoint, analysts said. 

 The maker of Dacron polyester and Teflon coatings said profit from continuing operations rose to $898 million, or 85 cents a share, from $749 million, or 66 cents, a year ago. Sales rose 21 percent to $7.6 billion from $6.3 billion. DuPont shares fell 5-1/16, or 9 percent, to 50-15/16 in midafternoon trading. Compiled from reports by 

Document nsl0000020010808dw4q00nlq


 Business 
 New York Stock Exchange Update 

 Susan Lisovicz, Greg Clarkin 
1,070 words
26 April 2000
17:00
CNNfn: Market Coverage - Afternoon
MKTC
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 SUSAN LISOVICZ,  CNNfn ANCHOR, MARKET COVERAGE:  For the latest at the New York Stock Exchange let`s go down to Greg Clarkin who`s at the floor and hey, Greg what the Dow giveth the Dow taketh away today, yes.? 

 GREG CLARKIN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT:  Right back away, Susan.  That`s exactly right. A couple of different ways traders say you can look at this action today.  One, in the early going a lot of folks are saying listen it`s just digestion of yesterday`s big 200 plus point gain for the Dow and as the day wore on a lot of folks said, listen, don`t expect to see any kind of dramatic moves ahead of those economic figures tomorrow. The GDP figures as well as the Employment Cost Index. Those figures closely watched in Washington as well as Wall Street.  So, a lot of folks are saying there`s going to be some nervousness, a little cautiousness ahead of that. Nobody wants to make a big move on the fear of potential surprises there.  So, what are we left with? Basically we`re left with a lot of the old economy stocks and the Dow trading lower.  Some of the low lights, as it be, are Minnesota Mining.  That`s better known as 3M (URL: http://www.mmm.com/) .  It`s down 6 and a fraction after losing three bucks or so yesterday. 

 Also, Procter & Gamble (URL: http://www.pg.com/) down 4 and a fraction after a loss yesterday as well.  Both of those companies kind of a similar story about them. There are some concerns over their future growth prospects. Procter & Gamble is more well known.  That company came out with a dramatic profit warning for this quarter that just ended. That took the stock way down.  It still really hasn`t recovered.  Now it`s trading at just 60 and a fraction. 3M  for its part yesterday came in line with expectations, but on their conference call they didn`t give the kind of rosy forecast that many analysts were  looking for and were expecting. So, that stock is being punished as a result of that. 

 Now on the upside we are seeing some of the technology shares holding ground.  HP (URL: http//www.hp.com/) all day has been a real bright spot for the Dow.  It`s higher now by one and change.  It had been up better than that earlier on. 

 Here are some of the other tech stocks on the big board we`re following.  Nortel Networks (URL: http://www.nortelnetworks.com/) the fiber optics company coming out with a earnings report that was about six cents better than expectations, 23 cents a share in earnings.  At the same time the company is saying, you know, what, our market is growing now at about 20 percent. Initially they had said the growth was about 14 or 15 percent. So, much more robust positive growth than Nortel had indicated earlier. That stock getting a nice bump out of that. 

 Scientific-Atlanta (URL: http://www.sciatl.com) up better than $7, 65 and a fraction. This is a company that makes the set top boxes, the boxes that go on top of your television to offer cable services.  Now those boxes will offer high speed and now digital cable services as well as  high speed Internet access.  Late yesterday they posted a 23 cent profit. That`s three cents better than expectations. Today S.G. Cowen says that the company is going to benefit now only from the domestic market, but international markets that are rebounding and they set a price target - upgrade the stock and set a price target at $70 to $75 a share, trading now at 65 and a fraction.   : 

 Fairchild Semiconductor (URL: http://www.fairchildsemi.com/) gaining 5 and a fraction, 45 and a fraction beat earnings estimates handily. Fifty three cents a share is what they posted.  Forty cents was expected and there you can EMC (URL: http://www.emc.com/) the software company and Motorola (URL: http://www.mot.com/) also doing very nicely this afternoon. 

 Right now the Dow is down about 158 points trading at 10,966. 

 Susan, back to you. 

 LISOVICZ: Greg, question for you.  You mentioned that there`s this caution ahead of the two key economic reports tomorrow with the ECI and the Gross Domestic Product, but we had durable goods out today.  Any traders talking about that and any jitters on the inflation front because by all consensus it seems to be higher than expected what we saw for March? 

 CLARKIN: Exactly, Susan it was a strong figure than expected. But a lot of folks didn`t - they shrugged it off this morning. We did find a lot of folks saying that that was really affecting trading. There were an occasional trader who said that he figured that factored in a little bit in the early going. But as soon as the day progressed they started looking towards tomorrow and that`s when the fear over the economic figures tomorrow morning came into play. 

 LISOVICZ: Greg Clarkin at the New York Stock Exchange.  Thanks, Greg. 

 CLARKIN: Sure. 

 END TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.)  No license is granted to the user of this material other than for  research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or 

 interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator  and copyright holder of such material.  This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document mktc000020010808dw4q002nj




 Marketing & Media 
 MBNA Gets a Leg Up In Credit-Card Race --- Bank Focuses on Long-Term Relationships   

 By Paul Beckett   
Staff Reporter
1,161 words
26 April 2000
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
31
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

 WILMINGTON, Delaware -- MBNA Corp., the nation's third-largest credit-card issuer, is as old-fashioned as the 1932 Duesenberg car in its headquarters lobby. Its executive suite is filled with former FBI officials and an ex-Marine commander. Its work force is so conformist the company is nicknamed "The Firm."   

 But that old-fashioned style -- along with a focus on customer service and strict financial controls -- has paid off handsomely in its long-running battle with rival First USA. Using a different approach, First USA sank hundreds of millions of dollars into splashy marketing, especially on the Internet, and focused more on winning new business than on serving existing cardholders.   

 Just seven blocks apart on King Street here, the two companies are the Coke and Pepsi of "affinity" credit cards, issued to members of clubs and associations, from doctors and university alumni to fans of Elvis and Nascar. The partners usually get a small cut of fees whenever their cards are used. Affinity cards account for 29% of all U.S credit cards, according to the Nilson Report, an industry newsletter.   

 Thanks to its more customer-focused approach, tortoise-like MBNA is winning the race. MBNA this month posted its 37th consecutive quarter of earnings gains of 25% or more, and it may soon pass First USA in loans outstanding -- a key measure of card-company size. First USA, a unit of Bank One Corp., is the No. 2 credit-card issuer in the U.S. after Citigroup Inc.'s Citibank.   

 "We are consistent, and we are disciplined," says MBNA President Charles Cawley, 59 years old. "In today's business world, what I mean by `disciplined' is not to be chasing after every rainbow," he added.   

 In contrast, First USA has fallen into a major slump, dragging Bank One's shares down more than 40% since August. Customers have fled, as have officers, including the chief executives of First USA and Bank One, the nation's fifth-largest bank by assets.   

 "Anybody would be an idiot to say this hasn't been a very sobering experience," says William Boardman, who became First USA's chief executive officer after longtime CEO Richard Vague departed in October.   

 As recently as 1998, First USA appeared to be catching MBNA in affinity cards. In 1995, for instance, both companies bid for the University of Notre Dame alumni-card account. School officials required that the winning card company not pester alumni with telemarketing or send direct-mail solicitations to students. Agreeing, First USA nabbed the coveted account. Three years later, First USA pulled out all the stops for the University of Tennessee, picking up the account after a pitch that included video footage of Peyton Manning, the school's football superstar.   

 First USA also trumped its rival in celebrity appearances. In January 1998, MBNA was a leading sponsor of a Marvin Hamlisch concert at the Grand Opera House here in Wilmington. MBNA even agreed to provide a corporate jet to shuttle the star to his next engagement. But, chatting with the audience, Mr. Hamlisch singled out only First USA for special thanks. The reason: A First USA executive had slipped a bag of shirts, a cap and pens, into Mr. Hamlisch's dressing room.   

 Then the tables began to turn. After years of rapid growth, the U.S. credit-card market was becoming saturated and a fierce price war erupted. First USA was one of the most aggressive, slashing introductory six-month interest rates to as low as 3.99% in 1998. MBNA offered "teaser" rates, too, but on a much more limited basis.   

 Unlike First USA, which saw customers jump ship when their limited-time low rate was about to expire, MBNA has proven more adept at preventing customers from looking for better deals. It carefully screens prospects, then offers the highest possible credit line in hopes of retaining them.   

 On the front line of the effort is Tamatha Leto, one of the company's 450 loan officers who scrutinize applications. One recent day she is reviewing an application from a Bell Atlantic executive who isn't a big credit-card user. "I could give her a nice big credit line and hopefully draw her in and keep her as a customer for years," says Ms. Leto. The upshot: the applicant is extended a hefty credit line of $15,000 (15,957 euros).   

 As First USA officials focused on finding new partnerships and clients, the company's back-office operations were overlooked. Call centers were overloaded. Cards weren't renewed on time. And, most damaging, an outside company that processed payments for First USA failed to post payments to customers' accounts on time. The problem lasted at least two months and affected about one million customers.   

 "We probably should have detected it a month or two in advance," says Mr. Vague, the former CEO. But it was too late: Customers filed a total of 7,200 complaints with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency in 1999.   

 MBNA, by contrast, had 1,272 complaints last year. Above every door at MBNA is the slogan, "Think of yourself as a Customer." And everyone from vice presidents on up must spend four hours a month listening in on customer calls or joining group discussions to analyze calls and suggest policy changes.   

 First USA, itself, has recently ordered its executives to spend one hour a month eavesdropping on calls. "What we have now recognized is the need to have longer-term customer relationships based on basic value propositions," says Mr. Boardman, First USA's CEO.   

 Such change has come by necessity. Last August, Bank One told Wall Street that, because of shrinking profit margins and slower growth at First USA, its 1999 earnings would be as much as 8% below expectations. Bank One's stock plummeted. In October, Mr. Vague left. Bank One issued another profit warning in November.   

 Mr. Vague and other former First USA officials say the significance of the customer-service problems has been overblown. Rather, they blame the shortfall on Bank One's desire to skim profits from the business in previous years, rather than reinvesting in the marketing needed to maintain growth.   

 "My leadership to the people of First USA after we became part of Bank One was poor," Mr. Vague says now, adding, "Instead of trying to work so hard to accommodate the desires of Bank One management, I should have drawn a line in the sand or fallen on my sword . . . so that earnings goals and reinvestment at First USA were in the best interests of First USA."   

 In a statement, Bank One says, "We disagree with that characterization. We know what caused the problems at (First USA) and Bill Boardman and his team already have made significant strides in improving customer service and payment processing."   

Document wsje000020010814dw4q006tp




 Procter and Gamble posts lower earnings 

110 words
25 April 2000
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 CINCINNATI, Ohio, April 25 (AFP) - Consumer products giant Procter and Gamble said Tuesday its per-share earnings for its third fiscal quarter slipped 11 percent from the same period a year ago. 

 The company said per-share earnings were 64 cents compared with 72 cents a year earlier. The results were in line with expectations when the group issued a profit warning several weeks ago. 

 Net earnings after one-time charges were 753 million dollars. That includes a 170 million dollar charge for restructuring and cost reduction. 

 Sales for the three-month period rose six percent to 9.78 billion dollars. 

 mbr/rl/ch 

Document afpr000020010803dw4p01nkh




 Oil company owner's trial continues 

587 words
25 April 2000
17:29
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 LACONIA, N.H. (AP) - A Berlin oil dealer accused of reneging on promises to deliver cut-rate heating oil to customers in New Hampshire and Maine appeared ready to strike a deal with prosecutors. 

 However, a lawyer in the case said Tuesday no settlement was reached and the trial will continue Wednesday. 

 Jonathan Oliver, 27, was in Belknap County Superior Court on Monday to defend himself against allegations that he sold at least 1,300 customers $625,000 worth of discounted oil he knew he never could deliver. 

 Judge Harold Perkins was about to adjourn the proceedings following numerous delays and interruptions when Oliver suddenly asked to address the court. 

 "I would respectfully offer a default on this case to save everybody some time," Oliver said. 

 Perkins said he wasn't certain what Oliver meant and suggested he discuss the matter with prosecutors. Oliver agreed and said he would first talk with his lawyer. 

 As he left the courtroom, Oliver said he intends to take responsibility for his debts and somehow repay customers. But doing so may be tough. 

 At issue is how much his company - J.L. Oliver Enterprises - will owe, to whom and how the money will be collected. But at the moment Oliver has no job, expects the bank to repossess his remaining oil trucks and lives with his parents. 

 Oliver also owes more than $800,000 to his heating oil supplier, Sprague Energy of Portsmouth. 

 Oliver admits he made mistakes but also blames his troubles on a court order preventing him from signing up new customers. 

 "I made a lot of mistakes, I admit, but the state had a lot to do with it," he said. "If I was in business today, I would be paying these people back, but the state has not let that happen." 

 Meanwhile, prosecutors are asking Perkins for another court order, this one barring Oliver from starting any more pre-buy business ventures until he has repaid the money he owes. 

 Oliver's former lawyer, Bob Bradfield, has blamed some of his client's problems on the skyrocketing cost of oil. He has said the price of home heating oil was expected to drop this past winter; instead it shot up. 

 Oliver started his oil business five years ago with a single delivery truck. He moved it to Berlin last summer and lured thousands of prepaid customers with ads offering prices that undercut competitors. 

 Competing dealers questioned how Oliver could sell at his advertised price and still make a profit. Their warning that he might have trouble arranging deliveries during a winter cold snap came true in December, when scores of customers began reporting they could not get their oil delivered. In late January, the deliveries stopped. 

 Customers often could not get through to the company by telephone, or if they did, someone would hang up at the other end. Many were told the oil would be delivered, but it never came. Some people ran out of oil during the late December cold snap, and had to buy from other dealers at much higher prices. 

 All the while, Oliver continued advertising in newspapers for new business, even though it was clear he was having difficulty servicing existing customers. He pulled the ads only when a judge ordered him to. 

 Oliver angered people even more when he testified in court that he recently had made the last payments on a $16,000 boat and had bought a $4,000 all-terrain vehicle. 

Rush

Document aprs000020010803dw4p08kf6


 BUSINESS 
 Quarterly earnings decline for Harrah"s 

 Jeff Simpson 
409 words
20 April 2000
The Las Vegas Review-Journal
LVGS
Final
2D
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 By Jeff Simpson 

 lasvegas.com Gaming Wire 

 Harrah's Entertainment, the Las Vegas-based casino owner and operator, announced earnings of 25 cents per share, down from 30 cents per share in the prior year's quarter. Net income dropped 9.8 percent, from $34.1 million to $30.7 million. 

 The results were in line with analysts' expectations, revised earlier this week after Harrah's issued a profit warning. Before the warning, according to First Call/Thomson Financial, analysts had expected Harrah's to report earnings of 29 cents per share. 

 Harrah's said last week its earnings would decline because of a "well-below-average table games hold percentage" at the Rio. The company said the Rio results reduced earnings by 9 cents per share. 

 Jason Ader, a gaming analyst with Bear, Stearns & Co., said Harrah's numbers were very strong, with its actual core business much stronger than expected. He credited in particular the company's Total Rewards affinity card program, which he said is proving its ability to drive profits, systemwide. 

 Harrah's revenue rose 10.1 percent to $783.6 million from $771.7 million. Operating cash flow, or earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, declined by 5.4 percent, to $157.9 million from $167 million. 

 Harrah's central region revenue increased 29.4 percent to $301.5 million from $233 million. Operating cash flow was up a robust 55.9 percent to $83.4 million from $53.5 million. 

 The company's central region operations include casinos in Illinois, Indiana, Mississippi, Missouri and Louisiana. Newly allowed dockside gambling in Illinois was particularly beneficial, as Chicago- area revenue was up more than 50 percent, and operating cash flow more than doubled. 

 The company's share of losses at the Harrah's New Orleans casino and losses at its 48 percent-owned National Airlines also affected the bottom line by 11 cents per share. Other Harrah's brand casinos did well, recording revenue gains of 16 percent. 

 National Airlines, which wasn't operating in last year's first quarter, reported its first profitable month in March, Harrah's Phil Satre, chairman and chief executive, said in a statement. Ader said National's business model should mutually benefit both the airline and the company, as its feeder routes into Las Vegas provide customers for both its Harrah's Las Vegas and Rio hotel-casinos. 

Document lvgs000020010808dw4k005gs




 In a Credit-Card Race, an Old-Fashioned Bank Outruns a Flashy Rival   

 By Paul Beckett   
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
1,155 words
20 April 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
B1
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

 WILMINGTON, Del. -- MBNA Corp., the nation's third-largest credit-card issuer, is as old-fashioned as the 1932 Duesenberg car in its headquarters lobby. Its executive suite is filled with former FBI officials and an ex-Marine commander. Its work force is so conformist the company is nicknamed "The Firm."   

 But that old-fashioned style -- along with a focus on customer service and strict financial controls -- has paid off handsomely in its long-running battle with rival First USA. Using a different approach, First USA sank hundreds of millions of dollars into splashy marketing, especially on the Internet, and focused more on winning new business than on serving existing cardholders.   

 Just seven blocks apart on King Street here, the two companies are the Coke and Pepsi of "affinity" credit cards, issued to members of clubs and associations, from doctors and university alumni to fans of Elvis and Nascar. The partners usually get a small cut of fees whenever their cards are used. Affinity cards account for 29% of all U.S credit cards, according to the Nilson Report, an industry newsletter.   

 Thanks to its more customer-focused approach, tortoise-like MBNA is winning the race. MBNA last week posted its 37th consecutive quarter of earnings gains of 25% or more, and it may soon pass First USA in loans outstanding -- a key measure of card-company size. First USA, a unit of Bank One Corp., is the No. 2 credit-card issuer in the U.S. after Citigroup Inc.'s Citibank.   

 "We are consistent and we are disciplined," says MBNA President Charles Cawley, 59 years old. "In today's business world, what I mean by `disciplined' is not to be chasing after every rainbow."   

 In contrast, First USA has fallen into a major slump, dragging Bank One's shares down more than 40% since August. Customers have fled, as have officers, including the chief executives of First USA and Bank One, the nation's fifth-largest bank by assets.   

 "Anybody would be an idiot to say this hasn't been a very sobering experience," says William Boardman, who became First USA's chief executive officer after longtime CEO Richard Vague departed in October.   

 As recently as 1998, First USA appeared to be catching MBNA in affinity cards. In 1995, for instance, both companies bid for the University of Notre Dame alumni-card account. School officials required that the winning card company not pester alumni with telemarketing or send direct-mail solicitations to students. Agreeing, First USA nabbed the coveted account. Three years later, First USA pulled out all the stops for the University of Tennessee, picking up the account after a pitch that included video footage of Peyton Manning, the school's football superstar.   

 First USA also trumped its rival in celebrity appearances. In January 1998, MBNA was a leading sponsor of a Marvin Hamlisch concert at the Grand Opera House here in Wilmington. MBNA even agreed to provide a corporate jet to shuttle the star to his next engagement. But, chatting with the audience, Mr. Hamlisch singled out only First USA for special thanks. The reason: A First USA executive had slipped a bag of shirts, a cap, and pens, into Mr. Hamlisch's dressing room.   

 Then the tables began to turn. After years of rapid growth, the U.S. credit-card market was becoming saturated and a fierce price war erupted. First USA was one of the most aggressive, slashing introductory six-month interest rates to as low as 3.99% in 1998. MBNA offered "teaser" rates, too, but on a much more limited basis.   

 Unlike First USA, which saw customers jump ship when their limited-time low rate was about to expire, MBNA has proven more adept at preventing customers from looking for better deals. It carefully screens prospects, then offers the highest possible credit line in hopes of retaining them.   

 On the front line of the effort is Tamatha Leto, one of the company's 450 loan officers who scrutinize applications. One recent day she is reviewing an application from a Bell Atlantic executive who isn't a big credit-card user. "I could give her a nice big credit line and hopefully draw her in and keep her as a customer for years," says Ms. Leto. The upshot: the applicant is extended a hefty credit line of $15,000.   

 As First USA officials focused on finding new partnerships and clients, the company's back-office operations were overlooked. Call centers were overloaded. Cards weren't renewed on time. And, most damaging, an outside company that processed payments for First USA failed to post payments to customers' accounts on time. The problem lasted at least two months and affected about one million customers.   

 "We probably should have detected it a month or two in advance," says Mr. Vague, the former CEO. But it was too late: Customers filed a total of 7,200 complaints with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency in 1999.   

 MBNA, by contrast, had 1,272 complaints last year. Above every door at MBNA is the slogan, "Think of yourself as a Customer." And everyone from vice presidents on up must spend four hours a month listening in on customer calls or joining group discussions to analyze calls and suggest policy changes.   

 First USA, itself, has recently ordered its executives to spend one hour a month eavesdropping on calls. "What we have now recognized is the need to have longer-term customer relationships based on basic value propositions," says Mr. Boardman, First USA's CEO.   

 Such change has come by necessity. Last August, Bank One told Wall Street that, because of shrinking profit margins and slower growth at First USA, its 1999 earnings would be as much as 8% below expectations. Bank One's stock plummeted. In October, Mr. Vague left. Bank One issued another profit warning in November.   

 Mr. Vague and other former First USA officials say the significance of the customer-service problems has been overblown. Rather, they blame the shortfall on Bank One's desire to skim profits from the business in previous years, rather than reinvesting in the marketing needed to maintain growth.   

 "My leadership to the people of First USA after we became part of Bank One was poor," Mr. Vague says now. "Instead of trying to work so hard to accommodate the desires of Bank One management, I should have drawn a line in the sand or fallen on my sword . . . so that earnings goals and reinvestment at First USA were in the best interests of First USA."   

 In a statement, Bank One says, "We disagree with that characterization. We know what caused the problems at {First USA} and Bill Boardman and his team already have made significant strides in improving customer service and payment processing."   

Document j000000020010807dw4k00aee




 Lucent Stock Dips Despite Profit 

 By LINDA A. JOHNSON 
Associated Press Writer
578 words
20 April 2000
AP Online
ASP
English
 Copyright 2000 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. 

 TRENTON, N.J. (AP) - Strong sales of data and wireless equipment boosted Lucent Technologies' second-quarter profits by 41 percent, helping the company rebound from its weak first quarter. 

 In announcing its earnings Wednesday, the world's top telephone equipment maker also said it will outsource all but its most high-tech equipment manufacturing to boost cash flow and meet customers' needs more quickly. To do so, Lucent will sell some of its 17 U.S. manufacturing plants to contract manufacturing partners, leaving about 11,000 workers either with a new employer or jobless. 

 For its fiscal quarter ending March 31, the former AT&T unit reported net income of $754 million, or 23 cents per share, up from $535 million, or 17 cents per share, a year earlier. That beat the 22 cents per share that analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial had forecast. 

 Revenues rose 17 percent, to $10.3 billion from $8.8 billion a year ago. 

 In afternoon trading today on the New York Stock Exchange, Lucent shares were down 81 1/4 cents at $61.93 3/4 a share. 

 "Lucent is regaining its momentum this quarter with strong growth in wireless, Internet infrastructure - including optical and data networking systems and optical fiber - professional services and optoelectronics," said Richard McGinn, chairman and chief executive officer. 

 Revenues for the microelectronics and communications technologies business hit $1.74 billion, up 38 percent overall from 1999's second quarter and up 56 percent in the United States. Sales for Lucent's service provider networks business, which provides consulting and design services and builds equipment to send voice, data and video over networks, reached $6.5 billion, up 23 percent. 

 McGinn predicted revenues from ongoing operations would keep growing by more than 20 percent for the last six months of fiscal 2000, with revenue growth of about 17 percent for the full year. 

 Lucent plans by late September to spin off its new Enterprise Networks Group, an $8 billion business that assembles telephone systems and data networks for companies. Lucent expects that 7,000-employee business to be a leader in messaging and call centers and voice communications systems. 

 This quarter's strong showing comes after a disappointing first fiscal quarter, when Lucent saw profits drop 23 percent on flat sales. Lucent shares had plunged about 30 percent when the company issued a warning Jan. 6 that its October-December profit would be down, mainly because it was caught off guard by customers' rapid shift to products based on Lucent's latest fiber-optic technology. 

 The plan to have other manufacturers produce most of its less complicated equipment on contract is intended to prevent that problem from recurring. 

 "Our markets and our technologies have changed dramatically in the past few years, and our manufacturing strategy needs to as well," McGinn said in a prepared statement. 

 Company spokesman Bill Price said Lucent has not yet decided which plants will be sold to contract manufacturers. He said increased outsourcing, which follows an industrywide trend, will help Lucent "be a little bit more competitive and nimble" because the contract manufacturers are better able to quickly increase supply of new products. 

 In addition, outsourcing will mean Lucent can reduce inventory and future investment in manufacturing technology, freeing up more capital to focus on research and development, and growth areas such as systems integration. 

AP-Earns-Lucent; D73VJAA80

Document asp0000020010804dw4k013cc




NEWS
Wall Street Recovery Moves Into Overdrive Nasdaq Surges 7.2% As Investors Decide Sell-Off Was Overdone 

Mitchell Martin 
International Herald Tribune
837 words
19 April 2000
International Herald Tribune
INHT
English
© 2000 International Herald Tribune.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All rights reserved.  

The bears went back into hibernation Tuesday as U.S. stocks in general and technology issues in particular extended an impressive rally into a second day. 

The Nasdaq composite index, which gained 6.6 percent on Monday, closed up 7.19 percent on Tuesday. The Dow Jones industrial average, meanwhile, rose 1.75 percent. 

Last week, the Nasdaq dropped 25 percent, including a nearly 10 percent loss on Friday. This week, investors obviously decided the decline was overdone, their view colored in part by favorable corporate earnings. (Page 14) 

"The sell-off was certainly exaggerated last week," said Jeffrey Warantz, an equity analyst at Salomon Smith Barney. He attributed the decline to three factors: a worrisome report on consumer price inflation for March, an analyst's downgrade of the sales prospects for Microsoft and an earnings report from Motorola that included a warning its second-quarter profit would be lower than analysts' expectations. 

"Add those three things together and the effect was multiplicative and then you ended up with momentum selling: the more people saw the market go down, the more they got spooked." 

There were also reports that last week an increasing number of individuals who had borrowed money to buy stocks faced margin calls, when they were forced to put down more cash to keep positions or to sell their shares. Adding additional pressure to prices was talk that some investors were cashing in stocks to pay their 1999 U.S. income taxes, which are due this week. 

Given the weekend to reconsider, many investors apparently decided that the declines were overdone, and they returned to the market in force this week. That provided evidence that last week's drop was an overreaction to several short-term developments. 

"The true function of the market is not to respond to news; the market anticipates news," said Steve Guo of Birinyi Associates, a research company in Westport, Connecticut, that studies the flow of money into the market. The plunge last week was reactive rather than anticipatory, he said, contrasting it with the situation in 1997 when stock prices deteriorated over the summer before plunging in response to the deflationary crisis that began in Asia. 

Over the past six months, Mr. Guo said, small investors put roughly $50 billion into the market, while institutions added $80 billion to their holdings 

Mr. Guo and Mr. Warantz said technology stocks offered some of the best opportunities for investors. Mr. Warantz noted that the prices of some were high when measured against their earnings, but he said that was because their profits were growing at phenomenal rates. 

"Technology is certainly a huge piece of our world today," he said. "It shouldn't be much of a surprise that the growth is there and the stocks get rewarded for that growth. A Cisco or an IBM or a Sun, these are companies that are here to stay." 

A recent study by Salomon found an interesting pattern, he said. In 29 out of 30 instances in which the Nasdaq fell 12 percent within a two-week period, the index soared in the subsequent six months. The average gain in such cases was 34.5 percent, compared with 8.6 percent for all six-month periods. 

Leading the Nasdaq higher late Tuesday were Microsoft, Intel, Oracle, Dell and Sun. 

Intel, which was expected to report its earnings after the market closed, was given a "strong buy" recommendation by Mark Edelstone of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. 

The leading New York Stock Exchange issues also were from the technology sphere: Compaq, America Online, Lucent and AT&T were the most active, all rising. 

Of particular note was the beleaguered Internet sector, which was a focus of the margin-related selling last week. E-Loan, Earthlink, Inktomi, E*Trade, Amazon, Yahoo and eBay all rose. 

Financial issues also rose, with Citigroup, Charles Schwab and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter leading the way. 

In the Treasury bond market, the yield on the 10-year issue edged up to 6.05 percent from 6.03 percent. 

The 30-year bond, which had been the bellwether for the market but is now becoming scarce as the government retires its long-term debt, yielded 5.91 percent, down from 5.93 percent on Monday. In general, the longer the maturity, the higher the yield, but the 30-year issue is affected by its scarcity value and the perception that economic growth will slow either on its own or in reaction to the Federal Reserve Board's repeated increases of short-term interest rates. 

Some evidence of slowing growth was contained in a government report that showed March housing starts fell 11.2 percent, to a 1.604 million annual rate. The number was not as bad as it seemed, reflecting a plunge in multifamily units, which tend to be volatile, and an upward revision to the February data.  

Document inht000020010807dw4j000j5


 Stock Market Gains Ground on Strength of Blue-Chips amid High Volatility 

 Steve Raabe 
770 words
18 April 2000
KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Denver Post - Colorado
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 Nervous investors, still reeling from last week's stock-market plunge, fretted for much of Monday but rallied late in the trading day to generate big gains. 

 A flock to blue-chip names in both technology and "old economy" stocks produced a strong day for the Dow Jones industrial average and record performance in the Nasdaq Composite Index. 

 The Nasdaq rose 217.87 to 3,539.16, with nearly all the gain coming in the final hour of trading to surpass the previous point-gain record of 178.89. The Nasdaq's 6.6 percent increase was the second-largest in history. 

 Meanwhile, the Dow rose 276.74 to 10,582.51, a gain of 2.7 percent. Leading the charge were bellwether technology stocks such as Hewlett-Packard, Intel and IBM, which together added the equivalent of 150 points to the Dow. 

 The rebound left financial analysts in two opposing frames of mind -- that Monday's gains represented a turnaround in the struggling market, or that the pickup was a temporary boost from bargain hunters lured back to the market for a one-day discount sale. 

 "On a day like this, it's sort of natural to see a dead cat bounce," said Fred Holland of Denver's Investment Security Group Inc., using a morbid market metaphor to describe a short-term rebound. 

 "There's a tug of war between fear and greed," he said. "On the greed side, you've got market gurus telling you that this is a great buying opportunity. On the fear side, people are saying that the market is overvalued and they want to get out." 

 For his part, Holland is advising clients to reduce their technology holdings from his previous portfolio recommendation of 25 percent to 35 percent and instead buy well-performing consumer and industrial companies whose shares have been disproportionately hit by this year's market turndown. 

 "Technology is the place to be over the next three to five years, but right now it's gotten a little overdone," he said. "For the short term some of the best opportunities may be on the old economy side." 

 Fred Taylor of Northstar Investment Advisors in Denver said investors were appropriately heartened Monday by reports of strong corporate profits. 

 "We had really good earnings from Eastman Kodak, Citigroup, Schwab, Eli Lilly and Ford," Taylor said. 

 "That really set a good tone for the market," he said. "People are starting to look at fundamentals again, and corporate earnings are what should be driving the market." 

 The gravitation Monday toward tried-and-true issues helped the Dow Jones industrial average to its gains. 

 In addition to blue-chip technology companies, old-line consumer and industrial stocks rose sharply. Procter & Gamble, which fell from favor earlier this year after releasing a dour profit warning, rose $6 to $69. Johnson & Johnson, United Technologies and General Motors also gained. 

 But volatility ran high. On a day when the Nasdaq composite index had its biggest point gain ever, more stocks fell in price than rose. Declining issues outnumbered advancers by nearly a 3-to-2 margin. 

 The poor breadth suggested that the fear that sent the market into a free fall last week has not yet eased. Many analysts expect the market to fully recover its devastating losses from last week, but most expect some tentative trading days first. 

 "Bargain hunters are picking around some names that now look like very good deals, but to say people are nervous is an understatement," said Tony Cecin, head of equity trading at Piper Jaffray in Minneapolis. 

 "We'd argue that now is the time to increase your weighting in technology stocks," said Jeffrey M. Applegate, chief investment strategist at Lehman Brothers, adding that many technology stocks went from overvalued to undervalued in the course of just a few sessions. 

 Still, analysts were unanimous in recommending that investors stick to well-known technology companies that have strong, growing earnings and clear business plans. 

 High-tech favorites such as Intel, Cisco Systems and Sun Microsystems dominated Monday's 6.6 percent gain by the Nasdaq index, which last week lost one quarter of its value. 

 Among other leading market measures, the Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 44.88 to 1,401.44. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 5.45 to 459.18. 

 NYSE volume totaled 1.195 billion shares as of 4 p.m., down from 1.251 billion at the same point on Friday. 

 -The Associated Press contributed to this report. 

Document krtbn00020010807dw4i00sl2




 A Section 
 Market rebounds, but remains volatile 

 Eileen Glanton 
ASSOCIATED PRESS
981 words
18 April 2000
San Antonio Express-News
SAEN
State
01A
English
 (c) Copyright 2000 San Antonio Express-News. All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK - Still reeling from one of the worst weeks in Wall Street history, investors returned to the market Monday with money to put to work and caution to spare. 

 Old, reliable blue-chip stocks rose, including drug companies and consumer-goods makers, and the largest, most stable technology stocks also regained ground. 

 But volatility ran high. On a day when the Nasdaq composite index had its biggest point gain ever, more stocks fell in price than rose. The poor breadth suggested that the angst that sent the market into a free fall last week has not yet eased. 

 Many analysts expect the market to fully recover its devastating losses from last week, but most expect some tentative trading days first. 

 "Bargain-hunters are picking around some names that now look like very good deals, but to say people are nervous is an understatement," said Tony Cecin, head of equity trading at Piper Jaffray in Minneapolis. 

 The blue chip stocks in the Dow Jones industrial average attracted the most buyers as investors sought their stable, predictable earnings and less volatile behavior. The Dow ended the session up 276.74 points at 10,582.51. 

 The Nasdaq composite index finished with its biggest point gain in history, rising 217.87 to 3,539.16. Its rise of 6.6 percent was the second-largest daily percentage increase ever. On Friday, the Nasdaq fell a record 355 points, and last week it plummeted a record 25 percent. 

 Gains mounted in the final hour of trading Monday, ending last week's disturbing pattern of late-day selloffs and allowing some analysts to hope that the worst is over. 

 "The trend of last-minute selling denoted a real lack of confidence. This was the first time in a long time that we saw some conviction and real buying interest throughout the session, and that's encouraging," said Eugene E. Peroni Jr., director of equity research at John Nuveen & Co. in Radnor, Pa. 

 On Monday, a number of Wall Street strategists tried to entice their clients to buy more stocks, arguing that the sharp decline presents an opportunity to buy top technology names that have been unaffordable for the past few months. 

 "We would rather be putting cash to work than raising cash at this juncture," said Elizabeth Mackay, chief investment strategist at Bear Stearns. 

 Tom Galvin, chief equity strategist at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, boosted his recommended allocation of stocks to 90 percent from 80 percent to take advantage of prices he now considers "cheap." 

 "We'd argue that now is the time to increase your weighting in technology stocks," said Jeffrey M. Applegate, chief investment strategist at Lehman Brothers, adding that many technology stocks went from overvalued to undervalued in the course of just a few sessions. 

 Still, analysts were unanimous in recommending that investors stick to well-known technology companies that have strong, growing earnings and clear business plans. 

 "The flawed business models are in the process of failing, as any shareholder of Dr. Koop, CDNow and Peapod can tell you," Applegate said. 

 Those three Internet stocks are among hundreds that have been decimated by investors' stampede away from the technology sector. On Monday, Dr. Koop.com fell 25 cents to $2.371/2; CDNow fell 467/8 cents to $3.031/8; and Peapod rose 121/2 cents to $3.311/4. 

 All three companies, which flourished after their initial public offerings, are now struggling to survive. Their shareholders, who purchased them on the promise of future growth, have sustained crushing losses. 

 The decline of the once high-flying Internet stocks may be the most significant legacy of last week's rout, analysts said. 

 "You won't see those second-or third-tier technology companies getting so far ahead of themselves in the future," Peroni said. 

 Cecin agreed. "People are getting rid of stocks that have questionable earnings or business plans that don't really hold up under scrutiny," he said. 

 That gravitation toward tried-and-true issues helped the Dow Jones industrial average to its sharp gains. Technology stocks led the Dow's advance, too, with Intel, Hewlett-Packard and International Business Machines providing the biggest boost. 

 But old-line consumer and industrial stocks also rose sharply. Procter & Gamble, which fell from favor earlier this year after releasing a dour profit warning, rose $6 to $69. Johnson & Johnson, United Technologies and General Motors also gained. 

 Investors willing to put money back into the market were making bets that the worst is over for the representatives of the old economy, analysts said. 

 "The market outside technology is fairly valued and doesn't need to correct any more than it has," said Edward Yardeni, chief economist at Deutsche Bank Securities. 

 While the mood on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange lightened considerably from last week, NYSE Chairman Richard Grasso took a fairly cautious approach, too. 

 "By no means is one day a reversal of what we've experienced," Grasso said on cable financial network CNBC. But he said investors appeared to be looking ahead to the possibility of future market gains. 

 "People are much, much more willing to take a long-horizon approach, and that's what the market is saying now," he said. 

 President Clinton said Monday that while stocks may gyrate, the economy remains strong at the core. 

 "They go up and they go down," he said. "All I can do is take care of the fundamentals, and I think the markets will take care of themselves." 

 NASDAQNasdaq index posts 

 biggest point gain Investors ignore market hiccups/1E 

 KATHY WILLENS/Associated Press Traders on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange keep their eyes on the path of the market Monday as investors began nibbling at potential bargains from last week's dramatic plunge. 

Document saen000020010813dw4i00b0m




 HEADLINE: Investors remain despite Wall Street gains     Market bounces back following last week's record losses 

 Eileen Glanton     The Associated Press 
948 words
18 April 2000
the Charleston Gazette
CGAZ
P1A
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 NEW YORK - Still reeling from one of the worst weeks in Wall Street history, investors returned to the market Monday with money to put to work and caution to spare. Old, reliable blue-chip stocks rose, including drug companies and consumer-goods makers, and the largest, most stable technology stocks also regained ground. </FD:"Lead"> But volatility ran high. On a day when the Nasdaq composite index had its biggest point gain ever, more stocks fell in price than rose. The poor breadth suggested that the angst that sent the market into a free fall last week has not yet eased. 

 Many analysts expect the market to fully recover its devastating losses from last week, but most expect some tentative trading days first. 

 "Bargain-hunters are picking around some names that now look like very good deals, but to say people are nervous is an understatement," said Tony Cecin, head of equity trading at Piper Jaffray in Minneapolis. 

 The blue-chip stocks in the Dow Jones industrial average attracted the most buyers Monday as investors sought their stable, predictable earnings and less volatile behavior. The Dow ended the session up 276.74 points at 10582.51. 

 The Nasdaq composite index finished with its biggest point gain in history, rising 217.87 to 3539.16. Its rise of 6.6 percent was the second-largest daily percentage increase ever. On Friday, the Nasdaq fell a record 355 points, and last week it plummeted a record 25 percent. 

 Gains mounted in the final hour of trading Monday, ending last week's disturbing pattern of late-day sell-offs and allowing some analysts to hope that the worst is over. 

 "The trend of last-minute selling denoted a real lack of confidence. This was the first time in a long time that we saw some conviction and real buying interest throughout the session, and that's encouraging," said Eugene E. Peroni Jr., director of equity research at John Nuveen & Co. in Radnor, Pa. 

 On Monday, a number of Wall Street strategists tried to entice their clients to buy more stocks, arguing that the sharp decline presents an opportunity to buy top technology names that have been unaffordable for the past few months. 

 "We would rather be putting cash to work than raising cash at this juncture," said Elizabeth Mackay, chief investment strategist at Bear Stearns. 

 Tom Galvin, equity strategist at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, boosted his recommended allocation of stocks to 90 percent from 80 percent to take advantage of prices he now considers "cheap." 

 "We'd argue that now is the time to increase your weighting in technology stocks," said Jeffrey M. Applegate, chief investment strategist at Lehman Bros., adding that many technology stocks went from overvalued to undervalued in the course of just a few sessions. 

 Still, analysts were unanimous in recommending that investors stick to well-known technology companies that have strong, growing earnings and clear business plans. 

 "The flawed business models are in the process of failing, as any shareholder of Dr. Koop, CDNow and Peapod can tell you," Applegate said. 

 Those three Internet stocks are among hundreds that have been decimated by investors' stampede away from the technology sector. On Monday, Dr. Koop.com fell 25 cents to $2.371/2; CDNow fell 467/8 cents to $3.031/8; and Peapod rose 121/2 cents to $3.311/4. 

 All three companies, which flourished after their initial public offerings, are now struggling to survive. Their shareholders, who purchased them on the promise of future growth, have sustained crushing losses. 

 The decline of the once high-flying Internet stocks may be the most significant legacy of last week's rout, analysts said. 

 "You won't see those second- or third-tier technology companies getting so far ahead of themselves in the future," Peroni said. 

 Cecin agreed. "People are getting rid of stocks that have questionable earnings or business plans that don't really hold up under scrutiny," he said. 

 That gravitation toward tried-and-true issues helped the Dow Jones industrial average to its sharp gains. Technology stocks led the Dow's advance, too, with Intel, Hewlett-Packard and International Business Machines providing the biggest boost. 

 But old-line consumer and industrial stocks also rose sharply. Procter & Gamble, which fell from favor earlier this year after releasing a dour profit warning, rose $6 to $69. Johnson & Johnson, United Technologies and General Motors also gained. 

 Investors willing to put money back into the market were making bets that the worst is over for the representatives of the old economy, analysts said. 

 "The market outside technology is fairly valued and doesn't need to correct any more than it has," said Edward Yardeni, chief economist at Deutsche Bank Securities. 

 While the mood on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange lightened considerably from last week, NYSE Chairman Richard Grasso took a fairly cautious approach, too. 

 "By no means is one day a reversal of what we've experienced," Grasso said in an interview with the cable financial network CNBC. But he said investors appeared to be looking ahead to the possibility of future market gains. 

 "People are much, much more willing to take a long-horizon approach, and that's what the market is saying now," he said. 

 President Clinton said Monday that while stocks may gyrate, the economy remains strong at the core. 

 "They go up and they go down," he said. "All I can do is take care of the fundamentals, and I think the markets will take care of themselves." 

Document cgaz000020010804dw4i00ihd




 Market bounces back, but investors remain on edge 

 By EILEEN GLANTON 
AP Business Writer
932 words
17 April 2000
22:40
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Still reeling from one of the worst weeks in Wall Street history, investors returned to the market Monday with money to put to work and caution to spare. Old, reliable blue-chip stocks rose, including drug companies and consumer-goods makers, and the largest, most stable technology stocks also regained ground. 

 But volatility ran high. On a day when the Nasdaq composite index had its biggest point gain ever, more stocks fell in price than rose. The poor breadth suggested that the angst that sent the market into a free fall last week has not yet eased. 

 Many analysts expect the market to fully recover its devastating losses from last week, but most expect some tentative trading days first. 

 "Bargain-hunters are picking around some names that now look like very good deals, but to say people are nervous is an understatement," said Tony Cecin, head of equity trading at Piper Jaffray in Minneapolis. 

 The blue-chip stocks in the Dow Jones industrial average attracted the most buyers Monday as investors sought their stable, predictable earnings and less volatile behavior. The Dow ended the session up 276.74 points at 10,582.51. 

 The Nasdaq composite index finished with its biggest point gain in history, rising 217.87 to 3,539.16. Its rise of 6.6 percent was the second-largest daily percentage increase ever. On Friday, the Nasdaq fell a record 355 points, and last week it plummeted a record 25 percent. 

 Gains mounted in the final hour of trading Monday, ending last week's disturbing pattern of late-day selloffs and allowing some analysts to hope that the worst is over. 

 "The trend of last-minute selling denoted a real lack of confidence. This was the first time in a long time that we saw some conviction and real buying interest throughout the session, and that's encouraging," said Eugene E. Peroni Jr., director of equity research at John Nuveen and Co. in Radnor, Pennsylvania. 

 On Monday, a number of Wall Street strategists tried to entice their clients to buy more stocks, arguing that the sharp decline presents an opportunity to buy top technology names that have been unaffordable for the past few months. 

 "We would rather be putting cash to work than raising cash at this juncture," said Elizabeth Mackay, chief investment strategist at Bear Stearns. 

 Tom Galvin, chief equity strategist at Donaldson, Lufkin and Jenrette, boosted his recommended allocation of stocks to 90 percent from 80 percent to take advantage of prices he now considers "cheap." 

 "We'd argue that now is the time to increase your weighting in technology stocks," said Jeffrey M. Applegate, chief investment strategist at Lehman Brothers, adding that many technology stocks went from overvalued to undervalued in the course of just a few sessions. 

 Still, analysts were unanimous in recommending that investors stick to well-known technology companies that have strong, growing earnings and clear business plans. 

 "The flawed business models are in the process of failing, as any shareholder of Dr. Koop, CDNow and Peapod can tell you," Applegate said. 

 Those three Internet stocks are among hundreds that have been decimated by investors' stampede away from the technology sector. On Monday, Dr. Koop.com fell 25 cents to dlrs 2.37 1/2; CDNow fell 46 7/8 cents to dlrs 3.03 1/8; and Peapod rose 12 1/2 cents to dlrs 3.31 1/4. 

 All three companies, which flourished after their initial public offerings, are now struggling to survive. Their shareholders, who purchased them on the promise of future growth, have sustained crushing losses. 

 The decline of the once high-flying Internet stocks may be the most significant legacy of last week's rout, analysts said. 

 "You won't see those second- or third-tier technology companies getting so far ahead of themselves in the future," Peroni said. 

 Cecin agreed. "People are getting rid of stocks that have questionable earnings or business plans that don't really hold up under scrutiny," he said. 

 That gravitation helped the Dow Jones industrial average to its sharp gains. Technology stocks led the Dow's advance, too, with Intel, Hewlett-Packard and International Business Machines providing the biggest boost. 

 But old-line consumer and industrial stocks also rose sharply. Procter and Gamble, which fell from favor earlier this year after releasing a dour profit warning, rose dlrs 6 to dlrs 69. Johnson and Johnson, United Technologies and General Motors also gained. 

 Investors willing to put money back into the market were making bets that the worst is over for the representatives of the old economy, analysts said. 

 While the mood on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange lightened considerably from last week, NYSE Chairman Richard Grasso took a fairly cautious approach, too. 

 "By no means is one day a reversal of what we've experienced," Grasso said in an interview. But he said investors appeared to be looking ahead to the possibility of future market gains. 

 "People are much, much more willing to take a long-horizon approach and that's what the market is saying now," he said. 

 President Clinton said Monday that while stocks may gyrate, the economy remains strong at the core. 

 "They go up and they go down," he said. "All I can do is take care of the fundamentals and I think the markets will take care of themselves." 

Urgent

 AP Graphic WORLD MARKETS; AP Photos NYSE104-106, NYSE200, NYSE201, NYSE202, NYR103, CX105, CX107, SLP101, PADL101, NYR106 

Document aprs000020010820dw4h00jkz




 Market bounces back, but investors remain on edge 

 By EILEEN GLANTON 
AP Business Writer
923 words
17 April 2000
22:32
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Still reeling from one of the worst weeks in Wall Street history, investors returned to the market Monday with money to put to work and caution to spare. Old, reliable blue-chip stocks rose, including drug companies and consumer-goods makers, and the largest, most stable technology stocks also regained ground. 

 But volatility ran high. On a day when the Nasdaq composite index had its biggest point gain ever, more stocks fell in price than rose. The poor breadth suggested that the angst that sent the market into a free fall last week has not yet eased. 

 Many analysts expect the market to fully recover its devastating losses from last week, but most expect some tentative trading days first. 

 "Bargain-hunters are picking around some names that now look like very good deals, but to say people are nervous is an understatement," said Tony Cecin, head of equity trading at Piper Jaffray in Minneapolis. 

 The blue-chip stocks in the Dow Jones industrial average attracted the most buyers Monday as investors sought their stable, predictable earnings and less volatile behavior. The Dow ended the session up 276.74 points at 10,582.51. 

 The Nasdaq composite index finished with its biggest point gain in history, rising 217.87 to 3,539.16. Its rise of 6.6 percent was the second-largest daily percentage increase ever. On Friday, the Nasdaq fell a record 355 points, and last week it plummeted a record 25 percent. Gains mounted in the final hour of trading Monday, ending last week's disturbing pattern of late-day selloffs and allowing some analysts to hope that the worst is over. 

 "The trend of last-minute selling denoted a real lack of confidence. This was the first time in a long time that we saw some conviction and real buying interest throughout the session, and that's encouraging," said Eugene E. Peroni Jr., director of equity research at John Nuveen & Co. in Radnor, Pa. 

 On Monday, a number of Wall Street strategists tried to entice their clients to buy more stocks, arguing that the sharp decline presents an opportunity to buy top technology names that have been unaffordable for the past few months. 

 "We would rather be putting cash to work than raising cash at this juncture," said Elizabeth Mackay, chief investment strategist at Bear Stearns. 

 Tom Galvin, chief equity strategist at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, boosted his recommended allocation of stocks to 90 percent from 80 percent to take advantage of prices he now considers "cheap." 

 "We'd argue that now is the time to increase your weighting in technology stocks," said Jeffrey M. Applegate, chief investment strategist at Lehman Brothers, adding that many technology stocks went from overvalued to undervalued in the course of just a few sessions. 

 Still, analysts were unanimous in recommending that investors stick to well-known technology companies that have strong, growing earnings and clear business plans. 

 "The flawed business models are in the process of failing, as any shareholder of Dr. Koop, CDNow and Peapod can tell you," Applegate said. 

 Those three Internet stocks are among hundreds that have been decimated by investors' stampede away from the technology sector. On Monday, Dr. Koop.com fell 25 cents to $2.37 1/2 ; CDNow fell 46 7/8 cents to $3.03 1/8 ; and Peapod rose 12 1/2 cents to $3.31 1/4 . 

 All three companies, which flourished after their initial public offerings, are now struggling to survive. Their shareholders, who purchased them on the promise of future growth, have sustained crushing losses. 

 The decline of the once high-flying Internet stocks may be the most significant legacy of last week's rout, analysts said. 

 "You won't see those second- or third-tier technology companies getting so far ahead of themselves in the future," Peroni said. 

 Cecin agreed. "People are getting rid of stocks that have questionable earnings or business plans that don't really hold up under scrutiny," he said. 

 That gravitation toward tried-and-true issues helped the Dow Jones industrial average to its sharp gains. Technology stocks led the Dow's advance, too, with Intel, Hewlett-Packard and International Business Machines providing the biggest boost. 

 But old-line consumer and industrial stocks also rose sharply. Procter & Gamble, which fell from favor earlier this year after releasing a dour profit warning, rose $6.12 1/2 to $69. Johnson & Johnson, United Technologies and General Motors also gained. 

 Investors willing to put money back into the market were making bets that the worst is over for the representatives of the old economy, analysts said. 

 "The market outside technology is fairly valued and doesn't need to correct any more than it has," said Edward Yardeni, chief economist at Deutsche Bank Securities. 

 While the mood on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange lightened considerably from last week, NYSE Chairman Richard Grasso took a fairly cautious approach, too. 

 "By no means is one day a reversal of what we've experienced," Grasso said in an interview with the cable financial network CNBC. But he said investors appeared to be looking ahead to the possibility of future market gains. 

 "People are much, much more willing to take a long-horizon approach and that's what the market is saying now," he said. 

Urgent

 AP Graphic WORLD MARKETS; AP Photos NYSE104-106, NYSE200, NYSE201, NYSE202, NYR103, CX105, CX107, SLP101, PADL101, NYR106 

Document aprs000020010820dw4h00jj6




 Market bounces back, but investors remain on edge 

 By EILEEN GLANTON 
AP Business Writer
965 words
17 April 2000
22:32
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Still reeling from one of the worst weeks in Wall Street history, investors returned to the market Monday with money to put to work and caution to spare. Old, reliable blue-chip stocks rose, including drug companies and consumer-goods makers, and the largest, most stable technology stocks also regained ground. 

 But volatility ran high. On a day when the Nasdaq composite index had its biggest point gain ever, more stocks fell in price than rose. The poor breadth suggested that the angst that sent the market into a free fall last week has not yet eased. 

 Many analysts expect the market to fully recover its devastating losses from last week, but most expect some tentative trading days first. 

 "Bargain-hunters are picking around some names that now look like very good deals, but to say people are nervous is an understatement," said Tony Cecin, head of equity trading at Piper Jaffray in Minneapolis. 

 The blue-chip stocks in the Dow Jones industrial average attracted the most buyers Monday as investors sought their stable, predictable earnings and less volatile behavior. The Dow ended the session up 276.74 points at 10,582.51. 

 The Nasdaq composite index finished with its biggest point gain in history, rising 217.87 to 3,539.16. Its rise of 6.6 percent was the second-largest daily percentage increase ever. On Friday, the Nasdaq fell a record 355 points, and last week it plummeted a record 25 percent. 

 Gains mounted in the final hour of trading Monday, ending last week's disturbing pattern of late-day selloffs and allowing some analysts to hope that the worst is over. 

 "The trend of last-minute selling denoted a real lack of confidence. This was the first time in a long time that we saw some conviction and real buying interest throughout the session, and that's encouraging," said Eugene E. Peroni Jr., director of equity research at John Nuveen & Co. in Radnor, Pa. 

 On Monday, a number of Wall Street strategists tried to entice their clients to buy more stocks, arguing that the sharp decline presents an opportunity to buy top technology names that have been unaffordable for the past few months. 

 "We would rather be putting cash to work than raising cash at this juncture," said Elizabeth Mackay, chief investment strategist at Bear Stearns. 

 Tom Galvin, chief equity strategist at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, boosted his recommended allocation of stocks to 90 percent from 80 percent to take advantage of prices he now considers "cheap." 

 "We'd argue that now is the time to increase your weighting in technology stocks," said Jeffrey M. Applegate, chief investment strategist at Lehman Brothers, adding that many technology stocks went from overvalued to undervalued in the course of just a few sessions. 

 Still, analysts were unanimous in recommending that investors stick to well-known technology companies that have strong, growing earnings and clear business plans. 

 "The flawed business models are in the process of failing, as any shareholder of Dr. Koop, CDNow and Peapod can tell you," Applegate said. 

 Those three Internet stocks are among hundreds that have been decimated by investors' stampede away from the technology sector. On Monday, Dr. Koop.com fell 25 cents to $2.37 1/2 ; CDNow fell 46 7/8 cents to $3.03 1/8 ; and Peapod rose 12 1/2 cents to $3.31 1/4 . 

 All three companies, which flourished after their initial public offerings, are now struggling to survive. Their shareholders, who purchased them on the promise of future growth, have sustained crushing losses. 

 The decline of the once high-flying Internet stocks may be the most significant legacy of last week's rout, analysts said. 

 "You won't see those second- or third-tier technology companies getting so far ahead of themselves in the future," Peroni said. 

 Cecin agreed. "People are getting rid of stocks that have questionable earnings or business plans that don't really hold up under scrutiny," he said. 

 That gravitation toward tried-and-true issues helped the Dow Jones industrial average to its sharp gains. Technology stocks led the Dow's advance, too, with Intel, Hewlett-Packard and International Business Machines providing the biggest boost. 

 But old-line consumer and industrial stocks also rose sharply. Procter & Gamble, which fell from favor earlier this year after releasing a dour profit warning, rose $6 to $69. Johnson & Johnson, United Technologies and General Motors also gained. 

 Investors willing to put money back into the market were making bets that the worst is over for the representatives of the old economy, analysts said. 

 "The market outside technology is fairly valued and doesn't need to correct any more than it has," said Edward Yardeni, chief economist at Deutsche Bank Securities. 

 While the mood on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange lightened considerably from last week, NYSE Chairman Richard Grasso took a fairly cautious approach, too. 

 "By no means is one day a reversal of what we've experienced," Grasso said in an interview with the cable financial network CNBC. But he said investors appeared to be looking ahead to the possibility of future market gains. 

 "People are much, much more willing to take a long-horizon approach and that's what the market is saying now," he said. 

 President Clinton said Monday that while stocks may gyrate, the economy remains strong at the core. 

 "They go up and they go down," he said. "All I can do is take care of the fundamentals and I think the markets will take care of themselves." 

Urgent

 AP Graphic WORLD MARKETS; AP Photos NYSE104-106, NYSE200, NYSE201, NYSE202, NYR103, CX105, CX107, SLP101, PADL101, NYR106 

Document aprs000020010820dw4h00jj0


ANN LANDERS
Lifestyles
Don't ever pierce top of your ear, warns doctor

ANN LANDERS   
594 words
17 April 2000
The Daily Gazette
SCHGAZ
Schenectady Albany; Final
A-07
English
Copyright 2000 The Daily Gazette Co. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank, Inc.    

Dear Ann Landers: You recently printed a letter from a man who objected to his 15-year-old granddaughter having the top of her ear pierced. I am an otologist (an ear specialist). That grandfather was not wrong to be concerned.

In October 1996, a mother brought in her 15-year-old daughter with an inflamed, painfully swollen external left ear. The daughter had her upper ear pierced in a jewelry store five days before. It was obvious that she had developed a serious infection. The young woman's treatment required hospitalization, consultation with an infectious-disease specialist, intravenous antibiotics, and a surgical incision and drainage of the abscess. She recovered following the painful - and expensive - $15,000 treatment. The family attorney is suing the jewelry store for piercing a minor's ear without parental permission.

In another case, my secretary brought in her daughter who had a painful and potentially serious infection of the abdomen after a belly button piercing. She was placed on heavy doses of antibiotics to prevent blood poisoning. Fortunately, the girl recovered, but there were some very tense moments.

Body-piercing is not an innocuous cosmetic procedure to be undertaken lightly. In terms of cost benefit and risk, the upper cartilage of the ear should never be pierced. The more common lower lobe ear-piercing is much safer, because that lobe is made up primarily of fatty tissue and skin. However, piercing even the lower earlobe can result in complications such as infection and keloid (scar tissue) formation.

If one wishes to pursue the fad of body-piercing, there should be informed consent and proper antiseptic techniques and precautions. - Irwin Harris, M.D., Professor of Surgery (Otology), UCLA School of Medicine

Dear Dr. Harris: It was good of you to take the time to write. Your letter contains some extremely valuable information for those who are considering ear- and body-piercing. I hope they listen. The warning about upper ear-piercing will be news to many, although too late for Dennis Rodman. Hopefully, others will profit from it. Here's another letter on the subject of piercing that I hope will make a major impression:

Dear Ann Landers: As a dentist, I am seeing an ever-growing number of fractured teeth due to the practice of tongue-piercing. The metal rings or barbells that people wear in their tongues can cause terrible damage to their teeth.

It is not uncommon for me to see multiple fractured teeth, usually broken severely enough to require crowns to repair them. Treatment, along with the cost of the crowns, can be very expensive. Also, repair work requires many long and involved appointments to fix the damage.

People should have the right to do what they wish with their bodies, but they should be informed of the potential risks and long-term effects before making these decisions. You have mentioned in previous columns the risk of infection from body-piercing, but I doubt that many young adults consider the additional risk to their teeth when they decide to get their tongues pierced.

I am sure a great many dentists are seeing these same problems all over the country. Please help make the public aware of the potential consequences. - James E. Reveley, D.D.S., San Antonio

Dear Dr. Reveley: I very much appreciate your letter. You have done more good for more readers than you will ever know, because you took the time and trouble to write. Bless you.

Document SCHGAZ0020101012dw4h00e9j




 Market Bounces Back, Investors Edgy 

 By EILEEN GLANTON 
AP Business Writer
949 words
17 April 2000
AP Online
ASP
English
 Copyright 2000 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Still reeling from one of the worst weeks in Wall Street history, investors returned to the market Monday with money to put to work and caution to spare. Old, reliable blue-chip stocks rose, including drug companies and consumer-goods makers, and the largest, most stable technology stocks also regained ground. 

 But volatility ran high. On a day when the Nasdaq composite index had its biggest point gain ever, more stocks fell in price than rose. The poor breadth suggested that the angst that sent the market into a free fall last week has not yet eased. 

 Many analysts expect the market to fully recover its devastating losses from last week, but most expect some tentative trading days first. 

 "Bargain-hunters are picking around some names that now look like very good deals, but to say people are nervous is an understatement," said Tony Cecin, head of equity trading at Piper Jaffray in Minneapolis. 

 The blue-chip stocks in the Dow Jones industrial average attracted the most buyers Monday as investors sought their stable, predictable earnings and less volatile behavior. The Dow ended the session up 276.74 points at 10,582.51. 

 The Nasdaq composite index finished with its biggest point gain in history, rising 217.87 to 3,539.16. Its rise of 6.6 percent was the second-largest daily percentage increase ever. On Friday, the Nasdaq fell a record 355 points, and last week it plummeted a record 25 percent. 

 Gains mounted in the final hour of trading Monday, ending last week's disturbing pattern of late-day selloffs and allowing some analysts to hope that the worst is over. 

 "The trend of last-minute selling denoted a real lack of confidence. This was the first time in a long time that we saw some conviction and real buying interest throughout the session, and that's encouraging," said Eugene E. Peroni Jr., director of equity research at John Nuveen & Co. in Radnor, Pa. 

 On Monday, a number of Wall Street strategists tried to entice their clients to buy more stocks, arguing that the sharp decline presents an opportunity to buy top technology names that have been unaffordable for the past few months. 

 "We would rather be putting cash to work than raising cash at this juncture," said Elizabeth Mackay, chief investment strategist at Bear Stearns. 

 Tom Galvin, chief equity strategist at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, boosted his recommended allocation of stocks to 90 percent from 80 percent to take advantage of prices he now considers "cheap." 

 "We'd argue that now is the time to increase your weighting in technology stocks," said Jeffrey M. Applegate, chief investment strategist at Lehman Brothers, adding that many technology stocks went from overvalued to undervalued in the course of just a few sessions. 

 Still, analysts were unanimous in recommending that investors stick to well-known technology companies that have strong, growing earnings and clear business plans. 

 "The flawed business models are in the process of failing, as any shareholder of Dr. Koop, CDNow and Peapod can tell you," Applegate said. 

 Those three Internet stocks are among hundreds that have been decimated by investors' stampede away from the technology sector. On Monday, Dr. Koop.com fell 25 cents to $2.37 1/2 ; CDNow fell 46 7/8 cents to $3.03 1/8 ; and Peapod rose 12 1/2 cents to $3.31 1/4 . 

 All three companies, which flourished after their initial public offerings, are now struggling to survive. Their shareholders, who purchased them on the promise of future growth, have sustained crushing losses. 

 The decline of the once high-flying Internet stocks may be the most significant legacy of last week's rout, analysts said. 

 "You won't see those second- or third-tier technology companies getting so far ahead of themselves in the future," Peroni said. 

 Cecin agreed. "People are getting rid of stocks that have questionable earnings or business plans that don't really hold up under scrutiny," he said. 

 That gravitation toward tried-and-true issues helped the Dow Jones industrial average to its sharp gains. Technology stocks led the Dow's advance, too, with Intel, Hewlett-Packard and International Business Machines providing the biggest boost. 

 But old-line consumer and industrial stocks also rose sharply. Procter & Gamble, which fell from favor earlier this year after releasing a dour profit warning, rose $6 to $69. Johnson & Johnson, United Technologies and General Motors also gained. 

 Investors willing to put money back into the market were making bets that the worst is over for the representatives of the old economy, analysts said. 

 "The market outside technology is fairly valued and doesn't need to correct any more than it has," said Edward Yardeni, chief economist at Deutsche Bank Securities. 

 While the mood on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange lightened considerably from last week, NYSE Chairman Richard Grasso took a fairly cautious approach, too. 

 "By no means is one day a reversal of what we've experienced," Grasso said in an interview with the cable financial network CNBC. But he said investors appeared to be looking ahead to the possibility of future market gains. 

 "People are much, much more willing to take a long-horizon approach and that's what the market is saying now," he said. 

 President Clinton said Monday that while stocks may gyrate, the economy remains strong at the core. 

 "They go up and they go down," he said. "All I can do is take care of the fundamentals and I think the markets will take care of themselves." 

AP-Edgy-Wall-Street; D73TOK180

Document asp0000020010804dw4h012m4




On the record
 BUSINESS 
 KNIGHT RIDDER, N.Y. TIMES MAKE COST-CUTTING DEAL 

813 words
14 April 2000
Orlando Sentinel
ORSE
METRO
C5
English
 (Copyright 2000 by The Orlando Sentinel) 

 SAN JOSE, Calif. -  Knight Ridder Inc., the second-largest U.S. newspaper publisher, and New York Times Co., the publisher of the Boston Globe and New York Times, said Thursday they formed a purchasing consortium to identify the best suppliers to meet their goods and services requirements. The consortium, KR/NYT Enterprises, will use its marketplace leverage to reduce costs and create a more efficient purchasing process, the companies said in a statement. Goods and services that may be purchased by KR/NYT Enterprises include computer equipment, production supplies and various professional services. 

 $4.3 BILLION CREDIT WILL LET MGM GRAND BUY MIRAGE 

 LAS VEGAS - MGM Grand Inc. said Thursday it has agreed on a $4.3 billion credit facility in order to fund its proposed $4.4 billion purchase of rival hotel and casino operator Mirage Resorts Inc.  MGM said the credit consists of a $2 billion five-year revolving facility, a $1 billion 364-day revolving facility and a $1.3 billion one-year term loan. The hotel and casino operator said this completes the commercial bank financing for the Mirage deal. MGM said the facilities were led by Banc of America Securities LLC, with additional members including Bankers Trust Co., Citibank N.A., Commerzbank AG, Merrill Lynch Capital Corp and Bear Sterns Corporate Lending. 

 - REYNOLDS METALS 

 RICHMOND, Va. - Reynolds Metals Co., North America's third- largest aluminum producer, which has agreed to be acquired by Alcoa Inc., on Thursday reported a better-than-expected first quarter profit on a 24 percent increase in revenue. First quarter shipments increased 7 percent to 345,000 metric tons, boosting revenues to $1.32 billion from $1.07 billion in 1999's initial quarter, the company said. It reported a first quarter profit of $71 million, or $1.10 per share, topping analysts' expectations of $1.07, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. A year earlier, Reynolds had a loss of $10 million, or 15 cents a share. 

 - FIRST UNION 

 CHARLOTTE - First Union said Thursday that profit slumped 13 percent in the first quarter as fee income declined and costs rose at the nation's sixth-largest bank. Including charges for First Union's acquisition of CoreStates Financial two years ago, net income totaled $840 million, or 85 cents a share, compared with $706 million, or 73 cents a share the year before. Fee income slipped more than 3 percent to $1.86 billion from $1.93 billion. That was offset by a 10 percent rise in net interest income to $1.99 billion. However, the bank's strategy of saving money by laying off workers appeared to have backfired. First Union is now spending heavily to keep key employees. The bank's non-interest expenses jumped 13 percent to $2.39 billion in the quarter. 

 - NEW YORK TIMES CO. 

 NEW YORK - New York Times Co., publisher of the New York Times and Boston Globe newspapers, said Thursday first-quarter profit rose about 35 percent, driven by an 18 percent increase in advertising revenue. The company said earnings climbed to $83.1 million, or 47 cents a share, from $61.4 million, or 34 cents a share, in the same period a year earlier. Wall Street analysts expected earnings of 43 cents. Revenue rose about 14 percent to $843.2 million, compared with $739.1 million in the 1999 quarter. Ad revenue was strongest at the New York Times, climbing 19.9 percent, and at the Boston Globe, ising 13.3 percent. 

 - ROCKWELL INTERNATIONAL 

 MILWAUKEE - Electronic-controls and communications company Rockwell International Corp.  said Thursday its fiscal second- quarter profit rose 15 percent, just topping the consensus estimate, on continued strong profitability in core businesses.  Rockwell said its profit in the second quarter ended March 31 rose to $164 million, or 85 cents a share, from $143 million, or 74 cents, a year earlier. Analysts' consensus estimate was 84 cents a share. Sales for the quarter rose to $1.78 billion from $1.70 billion in the year-ago period. 

 - UNISYS CORP. 

 BLUE BELL, Pa. - Unisys Corp. posted a small decline in first- quarter profit on Thursday, matching deflated expectations following last week's warning about weak sales by the maker of powerful business computers. The company reported a profit of $106.5 million, or 34 cents per share, for the first three months of 2000. In the first quarter of 1999, Unisys earned $109.9 million, excluding one- time dividend payments of $22.8 million that reduced the per-share profit to 31 cents. Revenue in the quarter ending March 31 fell 8 percent to $1.67 billion compared with the year-ago tally of $1.82 billion. U.S. revenues suffered a double-digit decline because business from the federal government was weak. 

Compiled from wire and staff reports.

Document orse000020010809dw4e00jel




 Viewpoints 
 Gates' Loss Is No Win for Banks 

1,165 words
14 April 2000
American Banker
AMB
7
Vol. 165, No. 73
English
 Copyright (c) 2000 American Banker, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

 By now, only the comatose do not know that Bill Gates lost another round in his Federal antitrust case. Three cheers for consumer rights and fair competition 

 No doubt more than a few bankers -- at least those without Microsoft as a holding in their mutual funds -- are gloating that the guy who once called them dinosaurs has been knocked down a peg or two. Justice, and a small dose of retribution, must be just around the corner. An affirmative-action plan for victims of Microsoft is probably in draft form this very minute. 

 So, what happens now? The short answer is simple: Nothing worthwhile or remotely just. What we will see is all too predictable--and unfortunate. 

 First, several hundred paid expert witnesses will help the court understand the actual damages that have been inflicted and for which the injured must be compensated. Personally, I can't wait to see the dollar value ascribed to individual headaches caused trying to cope with glitches in Microsoft's operating system. Let's see: 75 million users multiplied by six crashes annually multiplied by two aspirin for each crash-induced headache (at 2.23 per aspirin) plus $1.50 for the Evian to wash down the aspirin equals about $695 million. 

 Of course, that amount will be trebled for punitive damages, so call it $2 billion for headaches. And this is just to get started. The other damages will take months just to catalogue. They will range from the mundane, such as replacing keyboards smashed during a fit induced by Bill's system, to more creative costs, such as reimbursement for anger-management workshops (taken after smashing the keyboard). In the end, look for 12 months of 

 expert testimony to arrive at a figure for damages worth about $100 billion, give or take a few bucks. 

 Next, we will learn how all these damages are to be remedied and what types of constraints will be thrust upon Microsoft. History is probably a good guide. 

 Product warning labels will be required on all Microsoft packaging: "This product may generate a profit for Bill Gates." An ad campaign to stop teenage use of Microsoft products will be launched; Web banners, MTV commercials, and billboards will warn the nation's youth that Microsoft may endanger incompetent or unsuccessful competitors. Microsoft will be subject to new taxes on each box of software equal to 1,000% (1,500% in New York City) of the manufacturing and distribution of cost of the CD-ROM containing the software. All new Microsoft products shipped will include mouse locks to keep the product from being used by anyone but the legal owner. 

 Finally, the Justice Department and the attorneys general of all 50 states will reach a financial settlement with Microsoft that calls for the $100 billion damage assessment to be paid to each jurisdiction in proportion to the number of adults that returned their completed census forms. 

 The money, while ostensibly for use in funding computer-education courses in the nation's public schools, will be otherwise spent. Roughly 25% will go to fund additional research to identify new deep-pocket targets for legal harassment. The balance will quietly find its way into funding a combination of road-building projects, foreign trade-mission travel boondoggles, expansion of school-administration departments (not to be confused with more teachers), and more office space for the staffs of states' attorneys general. 

 But wait a minute: What about the consumers? What are the alleged victims of Gates' villainous behavior going to get out of all this? Nothing. Zip. Zilch. Nada. Zero. 

 Bankers should recognize this case for what it is: an excuse to take money from people who earned it and give it to lawyers. This should all smell familiar to us. It is just like the raft of cases brought against banks for their predatory overdraft practices. Heaven forbid that a bank make money for processing transactions. 

 And what was the benefit to the consumer when bankers lost? The lawyers got 40% of the settlement and everyone else got an invitation to an educational workshop on how to handle his or her money and $15 credit for future bank services. My guess is that this is $15 more than the typical Microsoft customer will ever see. 

 Should bankers be smirking at Mr. Gates' fate? It is tempting to enjoy the result of the hubris of a fellow who predicted the demise of our industry. However, wouldn't it be ironic if the cause of the downfall of banking was similar government lawsuits aimed at monopolistic banks, not the e-commerce juggernaut envisioned by Mr. Gates? Generally speaking, it is not a good thing when we root for the diminution of successful companies. 

 Before you protest that the banking industry has no antitrust problems thanks to age-old rules for determining market share and that it enjoys plenty of competition, keep in mind that Microsoft got in trouble less for what it actually did than what it tried to do. There are, after all, a few dozen browsers today, regardless of the fact that poor Netscape had to sellout for a measly $4.2 billion to AOL because it couldn't compete. Finding victims is not hard; you just have to hold public hearings. 

 Does anyone think that new interpretations or misinterpretations of the law are limited to the software industry? When will the ongoing calendar of bankers' conferences, where every idea and solution ever designed is immediately shared with competitors, be labeled collusion? When is too nearly identical pricing for virtually identical products going to be labeled anti-competitive? 

 I can hear the final summation on behalf of the bank defendants now: "Your honor, while growing into a financial behemoth by acquiring 137 banks in the past 10 years, my client has been intent on creating jobs in the financial services industry, on lowering service fees to consumers in small communities across this great country, and on giving our non-bank rivals every opportunity to compete fairly and squarely for our most valued clients. Why, your honor, we never so much as thought about making more money for our shareholders." 

 So, as tempting as it may be, I would 

 not gloat at Mr. Gates just yet. In fact, our industry just might wish to support a company's right to understand its markets, work diligently to design products and services that clients actually want, and run an operation where the value added to a service is reflected in its price. 

 As an industry, we better hope that model works. If not, more than a few bankers may want to start looking for those e-mails that mention how much they want to beat out their competitors brains on the pricing on some loan. And they had better pray that their e-mail archive system was designed by the same team that developed Vice President Gore's. 

Document amb0000020010803dw4e001qm




 Prudential's Wachtel Says Market Moving On Emotion 

251 words
14 April 2000
19:08
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Prudential Securities Inc. market strategist Larry Wachtel said Friday the market is moving on emotion and a floor won't be found until investors see a sustainable bottom. 

 "There is no event that will do it," he told Dow Jones Newswires. "It'll have to do it in its own way. You've got people who saw the Nasdaq rise 85% last year, and they've seen success the past five-and-a-half years. They're now meeting failure, and they're not used to it." 

 The selloff Friday was triggered by a government report that consumer prices rose more than expected in March, causing fear the Federal Reserve may impose a 50-basis-point rate hike in May, Wachtel said. 

 But he said a correction of the high-flying Nasdaq was inevitable because of the gains the market has seen in the last  few months. 

 "It had to be corrected," he said. 

 Wachtel said concerns over the future of Microsoft Corp.'s (MSFT) antitrust case and a second quarter profit-warning by Motorola Inc. (MOT) were only excuses for a broad selloff. 

 "It was going to happen," he said. 

 Wachtel said the market will have a "last hour" persona for a while, and if it closes poorly Friday, Monday could be bleak. 

 He said volatility will decrease once the market sees a sustainable rebound. 

 -Johnathan Burns; Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-2020; johnathan.burns@dowjones.com 

Document dj00000020010805dw4e01pqp




THE MARKETS: Market Place
 Business/Financial Desk; Section A 
 In Only a Few Weeks, Nasdaq Falls 25.3% From Its Pinnacle  

 By FLOYD NORRIS  
1,539 words
13 April 2000
The New York Times
NYTF
Page 1, Column 1
English
 c. 2000 New York Times Company  

 The biggest bull market in Nasdaq history has given way to the fastest bear market ever, as technology stocks have gone from stars to stumblers.  

 With yesterday's drop of 286.27 points, or 7.06 percent, to 3,769.63, the Nasdaq composite index is down 25.3 percent from the high it set just over a month ago, on March 10. It was the sixth-worst day in Nasdaq history on a percentage basis, and left the index at its lowest level since early January.  

 A 20 percent fall from a peak is customarily viewed as the indication of a bear market, although that definition may be less relevant now, given the unprecedented volatility of the market. Stocks have been rising or falling rapidly within minutes, even without any particular news regarding the company.  

 And there has been some bad news from what had been the hottest industries. ''We are starting to get information on technology fundamentals that are coming in well below expectations,'' said Douglas J. Cliggott, a stock market strategist for J. P. Morgan, pointing to a slowdown in the rate of growth in factory orders for communications equipment and to the warning by Motorola that profits from cellular telephone handsets will be disappointing.  

 ''Here you have a product that is becoming ubiquitous,'' Mr. Cliggott said, ''and yet a leading company is having trouble.'' Motorola, traded on the New York Stock Exchange, is down $34, to $116, in the two days since it issued its profit warning.  

 Yesterday, Microsoft fell $4.50 to $79.375, trading at its lowest level since June, after Richard Sherlund, an analyst for Goldman, Sachs, warned that a slowdown in personal computer sales was affecting Microsoft's revenue.  

 Over the last several months, the Federal Reserve has been raising interest rates to ward off inflation, and Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, has cited the spending of stock market wealth as one reason for economic growth so rapid that it has kindled inflation fears.  

 But the recent drop in the market, if it continues, could help slow the economy. ''The more work the stock market does to cool off the economy,'' said Joshua N. Feinman, an economist with Deutsche Asset Management, ''then presumably the less work higher interest rates have to do.''  

 Although technology stocks have been very weak lately, the fall in the Nasdaq composite index has not come at a time when all stocks are being pummeled.  

 Since the Nasdaq reached its peak on March 10, the Dow Jones industrial average has risen 12 percent, although the Dow, after being up for most of yesterday, also fell in late trading. Some parts of Nasdaq, most notably the Nasdaq bank index, have even done well.  

 Instead, this has been a case of the last quickly becoming first, and vice versa. Bed Bath and Beyond, a retailer, was one of the worst-performing stocks in the Nasdaq 100, an index of large companies, from the end of 1999 through the Nasdaq peak on March 10. It has been the best performer since then. Network Appliance, a maker of computer servers, was one of the best performers early in the year, but has lost about half its value since then.  

 The pain of this bear market, if that is what it should be called, is also less pronounced because Nasdaq had run up so far, so fast, before it began to slide. As a result, only those who got in very recently have substantial cash losses.  

 There may, however, be many such people. ''Judging by the margin-debt numbers, I suspect there are a lot of people who bought in recent months, and are starting to really hurt,'' said Edward Nicoski, a market strategist for US Bancorp Piper Jaffray. Those figures, on the amount of money borrowed to buy stocks, began to climb rapidly last October.  

 Earlier this year, the Nasdaq composite index was twice as high as it had been a year before -- a feat the market had never before accomplished. Even with the latest decline, the Nasdaq is still trading above where it was as recently as Jan. 6, little more than three months ago. By contrast, in most previous bear markets, a 20 percent decline cut prices to their lowest level in at least a year.  

 In the nearly three decades since the Nasdaq market was established in 1971, there have been just nine bear markets. The most recent one, a 29.6 percent drop in 1998, had set the record for the fastest fall as the index took just 30 trading days to drop 20 percent. The latest fall took 23 trading days.  

 Nasdaq's 1998 decline was part of a worldwide stock market slide, and was soon reversed as the Federal Reserve, fearing global recession, began to cut rates. The Nasdaq composite made up all its losses, and was setting new highs again by the end of November, only three three months after it fell 20 percent.  

 Just what has brought on the latest sharp fall is far from clear. The Fed has been raising short-term interest rates, but it began that process last June and was doing so as the Nasdaq doubled from last summer through the peak last month, while new Internet stocks doubled and tripled in their first day of trading. Many of those once-hot issues have since fallen sharply. Akamai Technologies, an Internet company, saw its shares more than quintuple, to levels above $145, on the day it went public in October and peak earlier this year at $345. But yesterday, Akamai fell $15 to $92.75.  

 Investors who were pouring record amounts of money into technology-heavy mutual funds earlier this year are no longer quite so eager, and in the latest week's report actually withdrew some money, according to AMG Data Services. Many investors who bought because prices were rising may have now fled.  

 One factor that may have contributed to the current decline is the impending deadline for paying 1999 income taxes. Traders who made a lot on Nasdaq stocks last year may owe large amounts, with most of their gains taxable at higher ordinary-income rates because the 20 percent capital-gains rate is available to taxpayers in high brackets only for stocks held more than a year.  

 Market analysts looking for a silver lining noted that the Nasdaq composite has still not fallen as far as it did during the chaotic action of April 4, little more than a week ago. By early afternoon that day, the index had recorded a daily decline of 13.6 percent, to 3,649, before rallying sharply to close at 4,149 -- a loss for the session of less than 2 percent.  

 ''It looks like a test of the climactic low,'' said Richard McCabe, chief market analyst at Merrill Lynch.  

 Whether the Nasdaq market rallies from here, though, may depend on the willingness of investors to bet more money on the so-called ''new economy'' stocks that are expected to prosper in the Internet economy and that were bid up rapidly in 1999 and early this year.  

 Even with the recent decline, the Nasdaq composite is up 45 percent from its level exactly one year ago, while the Dow Jones industrial average is up less than 8 percent.  

 Those numbers reflect just how unusual the market has been during the last year, when large, established companies saw their stocks gain little or, in many cases, decline, while younger companies with little in the way of operating history and no profits caught the attention of investors and soared.  

 Photo: The Nasdaq multimedia site near the end of a down day. (Associated Press) Chart/Graphs: ''The Bears Growl'' Since the Nasdaq composite index peaked on March 10, it has fallen 25.3 percent. It is the ninth time since the index was created in 1971 that it has fallen at least 20 percent from a peak -- the usual definition of a bear market. Of those nine declines, this one was the fastest. Here is the Nasdaq index plotted two ways, on a weekly basis. The smaller chart is done on a logarithmic scale, which makes comparable percentage changes appear similar. Shaded areas indicate bear markets. Charts shows Nasdaq's Bear Markets, Nasdaq's 100's best and worst performers since March 10 and the biggest U.S. stocks in Nasdaq, by market value. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C8) Graph tracks the Nasdaq Composite Index and the Dow Jones industrial average since Jan. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. A1) Table: ''Nasdaq's Worst Days'' DATE                      CLOSE    DECLINE Oct. 19, 1987            360.21     -11.35 Oct. 20, 1987            327.79      -9.00 Oct. 26, 1987            298.90      -9.00 Aug. 31, 1998          1,499.25      -8.56 Apr. 3, 2000           4,223.68      -7.64 Yesterday              3,769.64      -7.06 Oct. 27, 1997          1,535.09      -7.02 March 27, 1980           124.09      -6.15 April 19, 1999         2,345.85      -5.56 Jan. 4, 2000           3,901.69      -5.55 (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C8)  

Document nytf000020010809dw4d00khx




A
A bull to a bear, Nasdaq may be a strange beast

FLOYD NORRIS; New York Times   
865 words
13 April 2000
Houston Chronicle
HOU
2 STAR
1
English
Copyright 2000. Hearst Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

NEW YORK - The biggest bull market in the history of the Nasdaq stock market has given way to the fastest bear market ever, as technology stocks have gone from stars to stumblers.

With Wednesday's decline of 286.27 points, or 7.06 percent, to 3,769.63, the Nasdaq composite index is down 25.3 percent from the high it set just over a month ago, on March 10. It was the sixth worst day in Nasdaq history on a percentage basis, and left the index at its lowest level since early January.

A 20 percent fall from a peak is traditionally viewed as an indication of a bear market, although that definition may be less relevant now, given the unprecedented volatility of the market, in which a stock can rise or fall rapidly within minutes, even without any particular news regarding the company.

And there has been some bad news from what have been the hottest industries.

"We are starting to get information on technology fundamentals that are coming in well below expectations," said Douglas J. Cliggott, a stock market strategist for J.P. Morgan, pointing to a slowdown in the rate of growth in factory orders for communications equipment and to Motorola's warning that profits from cellular telephone handsets will be disappointing.

"Here you have a product that is becoming ubiquitous, and yet a leading company is having trouble," he said. Motorola, traded on the New York Stock Exchange, is down 35 to 116 a share in the two days since its profit warning.

Wednesday, Microsoft fell 4 1/2 to 79, trading at its lowest level since June, after Richard Sherlund, an analyst for Goldman, Sachs warned that a slowdown in personal computer sales was affecting Microsoft's revenues.

The fall, if it continues, could help to slow the economy.

"The more work the stock market does to cool off the economy, then presumably the less work higher interest rates have to do," said Joshua N. Feinman, an economist with Deutsche Asset Management. Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, has cited the spending of stock market wealth as one reason for growth so rapid that it has kindled inflation fears.

Though technology stocks have been very weak, the Nasdaq decline has not come at a time when all stocks are being pummeled. Since the Nasdaq peaked March 10, the Dow Jones industrial average has risen 12 percent, although the Dow, after being up most of Wednesday, also turned down in late trading. Some parts of Nasdaq, notably the Nasdaq bank index, have even done well.

The pain of this bear market, if that is what it should be called, is also less pronounced because Nasdaq had run up so far, so fast, before it began to slide. Only those who got in very recently have substantial cash losses. There may, however, be many such people.

"Judging by the margin debt numbers, I suspect there are a lot of people who bought in recent months, and are starting to really hurt," said Edward Nicoski, a market strategist for US Bancorp Piper Jaffray.

Since the Nasdaq was established in 1971, there have been just nine bear markets - defined as a fall of at least 20 percent from a peak. The most recent was a 29.6 percent retreat in 1998.

Just what has brought on the latest sharp fall is far from clear. The Fed has been raising short-term interest rates, but it began that process last June and was doing so as the Nasdaq doubled from last summer through the peak last month, while new Internet stocks doubled and tripled in their first day of trading. Many of those once hot issues have fallen sharply.

One factor that may have contributed to the current decline is the looming deadline on Monday for paying last year's income taxes.

Traders who made a lot on Nasdaq stocks last year may owe large amounts, with most of their gains taxable at higher ordinary income rates because the 20 percent capital gains rate is available to taxpayers in high brackets only for stocks held more than a year.

Whether the Nasdaq rallies from here may depend on the willingness of investors to bet more money on the so-called "new economy" stocks that are expected to prosper in the Internet economy and that were bid up rapidly in 1999 and early this year.

Even with the recent decline, the Nasdaq composite is up 45 percent from its level a year ago, while the Dow Jones industrial average is up less than 8 percent.

Those numbers reflect just how unusual the market was during the past year, when large established companies saw their stocks gain little or, in many cases, decline, while younger companies with little in the way of operating history and no profits caught the attention of investors and soared.

Tech plunge

The Nasdaq composite index heavily weighted with technology stocks- has fallen 25 percent since its record close March 10:

March: 10: 5,048.62.

Wednesday: 3,769.63.

Document HOU0000020120818dw4d00x8q


Nasdaq on brink of a bear market//Volatile market sees a 25 percent fall from peak, but not all parts have done poorly 

Floyd Norris 
The New York Times
1,030 words
13 April 2000
Austin American-Statesman
AAS
A1
English
© 2000 Austin American Statesman.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.  All Rights Reserved.  

NEW YORK -- The biggest bull market in the history of the Nasdaq stock market has given way to the fastest bear market ever, as technology stocks have gone from stars to stumblers. With Wednesday's decline of 286.27 points, or 7.06 percent, to 3,769.63, the Nasdaq composite index is down 25.3 percent from the high it set March 10. It was the sixth worst day in Nasdaq history on a percentage basis, and left the index at its lowest level since early January. 

A 20 percent fall from a peak traditionally is viewed as an indication of a bear market, although that definition may be less relevant now, given the unprecedented volatility of the market. 

And there has been some bad news from what have been the hottest industries. 

"We are starting to get information on technology fundamentals that are coming in well below expectations," said Douglas J. Cliggott, a stock market strategist for J.P. Morgan, pointing to a slowdown in the rate of growth in factory orders for communications equipment and to Motorola's warning that profits from cellular telephone handsets will be disappointing. "Here you have a product that is becoming ubiquitous, and yet a leading company is having trouble." Motorola, traded on the New York Stock Exchange, is down $35 to $116 in the two days since it issued its profit warning. 

Wednesday, Microsoft fell $4.50 to $79.375, trading at its lowest level since June, after Richard Sherlund, an analyst for Goldman, Sachs, warned that a slowdown in personal computer sales was affecting Microsoft's revenues. 

The fall, if it continues, could help to slow the economy. 

"The more work the stock market does to cool off the economy, then presumably the less work higher interest rates have to do," said Joshua N. Feinman, an economist with Deutsche Asset Management. 

Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, has cited the spending of stock market wealth as one reason for growth so rapid that it has kindled inflation fears. 

Although technology stocks have been weak, the Nasdaq decline has come when all not stocks are being pummeled. Since the Nasdaq peaked March 10, the Dow Jones industrial average has risen 12 percent -- although the Dow, after being up for most of Wednesday, also turned down in late trading. Some parts of Nasdaq, most notably the Nasdaq bank index, have even done well. 

Instead, this has been a case of the last becoming first, almost overnight . Retailer Bed Bath and Beyond was one of the worst- performing stocks in the Nasdaq 100 from the end of 1999 through the Nasdaq peak . It has been the best performer since then. Network Appliance, a maker of computer servers, was one of the best performers early this year, but has lost about half its value since then. 

The pain of this bear market, if that is what it should be called, is also less pronounced because Nasdaq had run up so far, so fast, before it began to slide. As a result, only those who got in recently have substantial cash losses. 

There may, however, be many such people. "Judging by the margin debt numbers, I suspect there are a lot of people who bought in recent months, and are starting to really hurt," said Edward Nicoski, a market strategist for U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray. Those figures, on the amount of money borrowed to buy stocks, began to climb rapidly in October. 

Earlier this year, the Nasdaq composite was twice as high as it had been a year before -- a feat the market had never before accomplished. Even with the latest decline, the Nasdaq composite is still trading above where it was as recently as Jan. 6 . By contrast, in most of the previous bear markets, a 20 percent decline cut prices to their lowest level in at least a year. 

Just what has brought on the latest sharp fall is far from clear. The Fed has been raising short-term interest rates, but it began that process in June and was doing so as the Nasdaq doubled from last summer through the peak last month, while new Internet stocks doubled and tripled in their first day of trading. 

Investors who were pouring record amounts of money into technology- heavy mutual funds earlier this year are no longer quite so eager, and in the latest week's report actually withdrew some money, according to AMG Data Services. Many investors who bought because prices were rising may have fled. 

One factor that may have contributed to the decline is Monday's deadline for paying last year's income taxes. Traders who made a lot on Nasdaq stocks last year may owe large amounts, with most of their gains taxable at higher ordinary income rates. The 20 percent capital gains rate is available to taxpayers in high brackets only for stocks held more than a year. 

Whether the Nasdaq market rallies , though, may depend on the willingness of investors to bet more money on "new economy" stocks that are expected to prosper and that were bid up rapidly in 1999 and early this year. (FROM BOX)Stocks of local interestCompanyCloseChangeAMD$64.50-$6.12Crossroads$81.50- $10.62Dell$51.38-$4.06Garden.com$5.50-$.25Hoovers.com$10.12- $1.12Intel$121.88-$8.88Motorola$116-$8.00Netsolve$27- $3.25Netpliance$11-$2.00PSW Technologies$34-$8.00pcOrder.com$19.75- $2.19Vignette$118.88-$28.19 

(FROM BOX)The rough ones 

Here are the five worst days for the Nasdaq index, including the percentage change in value: 

* April 3, 2000 -- 349.15 to 4,223.68, 7.6 percent 

* April 12, 2000 -- 286.27 to 3,769.63, 7.1 percent 

* April 10, 2000 -- 258.25 to 4,188.20, 5.8 percent 

* Jan. 4, 2000 -- 229.46 to 3,901.69, 5.6 percent 

* March 14, 2000 -- 200.61 to 4,706.63, 4.1 percent-- The Associated Press  

GRAPH; Photo: AP 

Document aas0000020010802dw4d007ud


News
BULL MARKET IN HIGH-TECH STOCKS RETREATS UNDER ATTACK BY A BEAR 

P-I NEWS SERVICES 
1,103 words
13 April 2000
Seattle Post-Intelligencer
SEPI
English
© 2000 Hearst Communications Inc., Hearst Newspapers Division.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.  All rights reserved.  

The biggest bull market in the history of the Nasdaq stock market has given way to the fastest bear market ever, as technology stocks have gone from stars to stumblers. 

Software maker Microsoft Corp. - which lost $4.50 a share and closed at $79.38, just $3.13 above its 52-week low - led the Nasdaq composite index's decline of 286.27 points yesterday. That 7.06 percent drop left the technology-laden index at 3,769.63, down 25.3 percent from the high it set just over a month ago, on March 10. It was the sixth-worst day in Nasdaq history on a percentage basis. 

The Nasdaq is now down 7.36 percent for the year; the Dow industrials are down just 3.24 percent. The Standard &Poor's 500 is up a scant eight-tenths of a percent. 

A 20 percent fall from a peak is traditionally viewed as an indication of a bear market, although that definition may be less relevant now, given the unprecedented volatility of the market, in which a stock can rise or fall rapidly within minutes, even without any particular news regarding the company. 

And there has been some bad news from what have been the hottest industries. 

"We are starting to get information on technology fundamentals that are coming in well below expectations," said Douglas Cliggott, a stock market strategist for J.P. Morgan, pointing to a slowdown in the rate of growth in factory orders for communications equipment and to Motorola's warning that profits from cellular telephone handsets will be disappointing. 

"Here you have a product that is becoming ubiquitous, and yet a leading company is having trouble," he said. Motorola, traded on the New York Stock Exchange, is down $35, to $116, in the two days since it issued its profit warning. 

Yesterday, Microsoft fell to its lowest level since June after Richard Sherlund, an analyst for Goldman, Sachs warned that a slowdown in personal computer sales was affecting Microsoft's revenues. 

Shares of Microsoft have tumbled 25 percent since April 3, when a federal judge ruled that Microsoft violated antitrust law. Such declines may be felt disproportionately in Washington state, where 40 percent of the company's stock is held. 

Sherlund reduced his revenue estimate for the quarter to $5.75 billion, down from $5.95 billion. That still represents an increase of $1.42 billion, or 33 percent, from the $4.33 billion earned in the year-ago period. 

Microsoft is due to release its earnings report April 20. 

No other analysts have reduced their expectations for the company's third-quarter performance. Eleven analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial continue to rate Microsoft as a "strong buy" and 17 others as a "moderate buy." Only three analysts rate it as a "hold," and none have recommended selling the stock. 

Still, the Nasdaq, which had opened on an upbeat yesterday, quickly reversed course on Sherlund's warning. 

Though technology stocks have been very weak, the Nasdaq decline has not come at a time when all stocks are being pummeled. Since the Nasdaq peaked on March 10, the Dow Jones industrial average has risen 12 percent, although the Dow, after being up for most of yesterday, also turned down in late trading. 

This has been a case of the last becoming first, almost overnight, and vice versa. Bed Bath and Beyond, a retailer, was one of the worst performing stocks in the Nasdaq 100 from the end of 1999 through the Nasdaq peak on March 10. 

It has been the best performer since then. Network Appliance, a maker of computer servers, was one of the best performers early in the year, but has lost about half its value since then. 

The pain of this bear market, if that is what it should be called, is also less pronounced because Nasdaq had run up so far, so fast, before it began to slide. 

Earlier this year, the Nasdaq composite was twice as high as it had been a year before - a feat the market had never before accomplished. Even with the latest decline, the Nasdaq composite is still trading above where it was as recently as Jan. 6, little more than three months ago. By contrast, in most of the previous bear markets, a 20 percent decline cut prices to their lowest level in at least a year. 

Just what has brought on the latest sharp fall is far from clear. The Fed has been raising short-term interest rates, but it began that process last June and was doing so as the Nasdaq doubled from last summer through the peak last month, while new Internet stocks doubled and tripled in their first day of trading. 

One factor that may have contributed to the current decline is the looming deadline on Monday for paying last year's income taxes. Traders who made a lot on Nasdaq stocks last year may owe large amounts, with most of their gains taxable at higher ordinary income rates because the 20 percent capital gains rate is available to taxpayers in high brackets only for stocks held more than a year. 

Market analysts looking for a silver lining noted that the Nasdaq composite has still not fallen as far as it did during the hectic action of April 4, little more than a week ago. During early afternoon that day, the index had recorded a daily decline of more than 12 percent, to 3,649, before rallying sharply to close at 4,149. "It looks like a test of the climactic low," said Richard McCabe, the chief market analyst at Merrill Lynch. 

Whether the Nasdaq market rallies from here, though, may depend on the willingness of investors to bet more money on the so-called "new economy" stocks that are expected to prosper in the Internet economy and that were bid up rapidly in 1999 and early this year. 

Even with the recent decline, the Nasdaq composite is up 45 percent from its level exactly one year ago, while the Dow Jones industrial average is up less than 8 percent. Those numbers reflect just how unusual the market was during the past year, when large established companies saw their stocks gain little or, in many cases, decline, while younger companies with little in the way of operating history and no profits soared. 

The New York Times, Bloomberg News, The Associated Press and Reuters contributed to this report.  

Chart;  Caption: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS: Nasdaq down again 

Document sepi000020010813dw4d0065f




 Business/Financial Desk; Section C 
 BUSINESS DIGEST 

701 words
12 April 2000
The New York Times
NYTF
Page 1, Column 1
English
 c. 2000 New York Times Company 

 Aetna Settles Texas Suit, Altering H.M.O. Practices 

 Aetna, the nation's biggest managed-care insurer, settled a lawsuit in Texas by agreeing to change several practices that doctors and consumer advocates had portrayed as undermining patient care, like rewarding physicians who stayed within cost limits. 

 Aetna said it was ready to make similar changes in other states, but officials in New York and Connecticut said that, on first look, the Texas concessions were not far-reaching enough to satisfy their concerns. [Page C2.] 

 Governors Criticize Web Tax Panel 

 More than two-thirds of the nation's governors will deliver to Congress today a scathing bipartisan attack on the Internet tax commission, denouncing it as a forum for special interests seeking tax breaks while threatening the system in which states set their tax policies to finance government services. [C6.] 

 Rite Aid Plans to Refinance Its Debt 

 Rite Aid, having failed to find buyers for its PCS Health Systems subsidiary, announced a plan to refinance its debt for more than two years, giving it access to more than $640 million in additional funds. The deal came at a cost of higher interest rates on some of its borrowings and substantial dilution for its stockholders. Shares of Rite Aid rose $1.625, to $7.3125. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [C10.] 

 Motorola Issues a Profit Warning

 Shares of Motorola plummeted nearly 18 percent after the company said second-quarter and full-year earnings would come in below analysts' expectations. [C11.] 

 Nasdaq Slides an Additional 3.2% 

 Technology stocks were punished again, with the Nasdaq composite index falling 132.30 points, or 3.2 percent, to 4,055.90. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 100.52 points, or 0.9 percent, to 11,287.08, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 3.87 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,500.59. [C11.] 

 Treasury prices dropped sharply as the yield on the benchmark 30-year issue rose to 5.76 percent from 5.66 percent. [C11.] 

 Fund Manager, Once Hot, Resigns 

 Frank P. Slattery V, who had a phenomenal first year as a manager of the PBHG New Opportunities Fund but then stumbled over the last month amid market turbulence, resigned to pursue other opportunities. [C2.] 

 Chase in Deal for Robert Fleming 

 Chase Manhattan formally agreed to acquire Robert Fleming Holdings for $7.7 billion, part of an effort by Chase to strengthen its presence in Europe and Asia. [C4.] 

 A Lucky Man Who Manages a Casino 

 Luck has favored him, says Neil M. Cornelius Jr., general manager of the Treasure Island Resort and Casino in Red Wing, Minn. It started with an Upward Bound invitation when he was 14, one of nine children in a Native American family. After college, his sister got him an interview at I.B.M. that led to a job and management. Twenty years later, after I.B.M. gave him a ''silver parachute,'' he earned a master's degree and returned to ''work with my people.'' Now, in the gambling field, his luck has not run out. In recent years, he sky-dived in an Elvis costume. The Boss. [C8.] 

 Omnicom to Invest in Dot-Com Shop 

 In another step to expand an already extensive interactive empire, Omnicom Group is investing in Eisnor Interactive, an innovative agency that specializes in creating offline campaigns for online marketers. A rival of Omnicom, Interpublic Group, said that it would strengthen ties with a leading interactive services agency, Icon Medialab International in Stockholm. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C7.] 

 Saudi Arabia to Ease Restrictions 

 Eager to demonstrate a new economic openness that could help its bid to join the World Trade Organization, Saudi Arabia announced a new law that would permit foreigners to own their investments and property in the country without a Saudi partner. [C4.] 

 Photo Chart: ''YESTERDAY'' Dow industrials -- 11,287.08 up 100.52 Nasdaq composite -- 4,055.90 132.30 30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.76% up 0.10 The euro -- $0.9597 down 0.0019 The dollar -- 107.09 yen up 0.62 Graph tracks the daily closing price of Rite Aid shares since last Tuesday. 

Document nytf000020010809dw4c00k5u




Business
BUSINESS IN BRIEF

431 words
12 April 2000
Boston Herald
BHLD
ALL
32
English
Copyright © 2000 Boston Herald, All rights reserved.  Distributed by NewsBank, Inc.   

Report predicts dot-coms' demise

Dot-com retailers are an endangered species, says a new report issued by Forrester Research yesterday.

Forrester predicts the demise of most dot-com merchants by 2001, as investor flight, weak financials and competitive pressures drive them from the market. Bricks-and-mortar retailers will regain their footing as most pure play Internet retailers are shaken out, the Cambridge research firm says in the report.

"It's time to face facts: On-line retail's honeymoon is over," said Joe Sawyer, a senior Forrester analyst.

- HERALD STAFF

CEO adds to titles

Talbots Inc. named Arnold B. Zetcher yesterday to the added role of chairman, replacing Takuya Okada, 74, who is also retiring as chairman and chief executive of Jusco Co., Talbots' majority shareholder.

Zetcher, 59, Talbots' president and chief executive, will become chairman next month.

Zetcher has led Talbots through a highly successful turnaround. The retailer's sales growth in the past year has been among the nation's best.

- HERALD STAFF

J. Jill's earnings fall

The J. Jill Group said yesterday that its first quarter earnings fell 46 percent to $750,000 or 7 cents a share, from $1.3 million or 13 cents a share in the year ago period.

J. Jill, which recently moved its headquarters from Hingham to Quincy, said sales fell nearly 24 percent to $49.4 million from $64.7 million in the year-ago period.

About $12 million of that decline came from the discontinued Nicole Summers catalog business. Traditionally a catalog company, J. Jill said its new retail stores are performing better than expected. The company will open three stores this month.

- HERALD STAFF

Exec lands new job

Robert M. Dutkowsky, who quit last week as president of EMC Corp.'s Data General unit, yesterday succeeded James F. Lyons as chairman and chief executive of GenRad Inc. of Westford.

Dutkowski's first day on the job coincided with a profit warning which sent GenRad's stock down 24 percent to $9.88 a share.

The maker of computer and electronic testing equipment said first-quarter earnings will be about half of what analysts expected.

- HERALD STAFF

Fund chief resigns

Frank "Quint" Slattery, 27, whose PBHG New Opportunities Fund boasted a 415 percent one-year return through Monday, quit Pilgrim Baxter & Associates to pursue other opportunities, the firm said yesterday.

Slattery had run the New Opportunities fund since it was started in February 1999.

He was replaced by Pilgrim Baxter's growth investment team, led by chief investment officer Gary Pilgrim. - BLOOMBERG NEWS

Document BHLD000020110827dw4c00bxr




 Business; Financial Desk 
 Market Savvy SAVVY CONFIDENTIAL / A Briefing for Investors 'Whisper Numbers,' Warning Batter Motorola Shares 

Bloomberg News, Reuters
332 words
12 April 2000
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-4
English
 Copyright 2000 / The Times Mirror Company 

 As Motorola Inc. shareholders were reminded Tuesday, "whisper numbers" and profit warnings are being heard loud and clear. 

 The wireless phone maker's shares (ticker symbol: MOT) tumbled after the company forecast second-quarter earnings below estimates. The conservative second-quarter outlook overshadowed first-quarter earnings reported Monday, which came in 1 cent per share higher than analysts' consensus estimate but shy of the more optimistic "whisper" numbers. 

 Shares plunged $26.25 to $124 on the New York Stock Exchange, bringing them underwater this year and 33% below their recent peak. 

 "My sense is that expectations kind of got ahead of reality, and you couple that with nervousness about Nasdaq, and it meant a tough day for Motorola stock," said Robert Wilkes, telecom analyst with Brown Bros. Harriman. 

 Motorola's woes did not appear to infect the wireless sector, however, as Nokia's U.S. shares (NOK) were unchanged at $54.75 on the NYSE. 

 Analysts were disappointed with a steeper-than-expected 41% drop in first-quarter wireless phone handset earnings. Motorola blamed the decline on a shift toward lower-margin phones, ongoing component shortages, and higher engineering and advertising spending. 

 Motorola has been discounting its higher-priced phones to compete with No. 1 Nokia in the market for cheap cell-phone packages in Europe, said analyst Ed Snyder at Chase H&Q. Nokia already had an inexpensive model designed for first-time buyers, and Motorola started making one only recently. 

 "Nokia can print money while Motorola loses money," said Snyder, who nonetheless rates Schaumburg, Ill.-based Motorola a "buy." 

 (BEGIN TEXT OF INFOBOX / INFOGRAPHIC) 

 Blue-Chip Blues 

 Motorola shares slid 17% on Tuesday after the company failed to beat its earnings "whisper" number and issued a second-quarter profit warning. Weekly closes and latest: 

 * 

 Tuesday: $124, down $26.25   * 

 Source: Bloomberg News 

 GRAPHIC: Blue-Chip Blues, Los Angeles Times; 

Document latm000020010808dw4c00qp5




 Raytheon Predicts Lower 1Q Earnings 

 By JAY LINDSAY 
Associated Press Writer
481 words
12 April 2000
AP Online
ASP
English
 Copyright 2000 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. 

 BOSTON (AP) - Raytheon is trying to sell its engineering and construction division, where the company said contract problems are dragging down first-quarter profits. 

 The profit warning Tuesday was the latest bad news at Lexington-based Raytheon, but analysts said plans to jettison the troubled Raytheon Engineering & Constructors division would be welcomed by the market. 

 "The fact that they're selling the business will be relatively well received," said Joseph Nadol of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. "They should really focus on defense." 

 As of the first quarter, the engineering unit's results won't be reported in continuing operations. That would put first-quarter earnings at 23 to 27 cents per diluted share, on par with analysts' expectations, the company said. 

 Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial were expecting 24 cents per share for the quarter. 

 The company said the loss attributable to the engineering division was 15 to 20 cents per diluted share. 

 The Engineering & Constructors division builds large-scale government and industrial projects, with a light transit rail system in New Jersey and a hydroelectric dam in the Philippines to its credit. 

 Nadol said the division's problems stem from four international contracts, its most troublesome a fixed-price contract with United Kingdom-based Entergy to build a natural gas-fired power plant outside London. 

 The project is at least $50 million over budget and overdue. Raytheon is liable for lost profits due to late project completion, which could add millions more to the company's losses, Nadol said. 

 Raytheon chairman and chief executive officer Daniel Burnham said the engineering unit's business is not central to the company's strategy. 

 "A sale, joint venture or spin-off of RE&C is in the best interests of Raytheon shareholders and RE&C," he said in a statement. 

 Raytheon spokesman David Polk declined to comment on any talks Raytheon was having regarding the divestiture of RE&C. 

 RE&C has about 7,600 employees, about 7.2 percent of the company's work force of 105,000. 

 "It's a relatively small part of the whole company," Nadol said, adding that the defense operations that make up the bulk of Raytheon's business seem to be performing adequately. 

 "This is not the worst news that's recently come out of the company," Nadol said. 

 Last year was particularly tough for Raytheon. In the last quarter of 1999, Raytheon's earnings fell 79 percent from the same period in 1998, dropping to $72 million from $341 million. 

 Raytheon's profits fell from $844 million in 1998 to $404 million last year. Meanwhile, its stock has fallen from a 52-week high of $76.56 1/4 in July, trading in the $20 range for the past couple of months. 

AP-Raytheon-Troubles; D73PVLR00

Document asp0000020010804dw4c011bb




 Tommy Hilfiger's stock plunges after disappointing earnings' outlook 

 By RACHEL BECK 
AP Business Writer
499 words
12 April 2000
18:37
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Tommy Hilfiger Corp.'s stock plunged more than 30 percent Friday, falling to a five-year low, after the fashion house warned earnings will be on the low end of analysts' expectations because of continued sluggish sales. 

 News of the earnings shortfall comes amid tough times for the trendy clothing manufacturer, which has been struggling in recent months with a steep decline in sales in both its men and women's lines. 

 This is the second profit warning by the New York-based company this year. 

 Hilfiger shares closed down $4.43 3/4 , or by 32 percent, at $9.37 1/2 Friday as one of the most active issues on the New York Stock Exchange, its lowest level since February 1995. Almost 11 million shares changed hands as a number of investment firms downgraded its stock. 

 Hilfiger said that its earnings per share for the fourth quarter of the fiscal year that ended March 31were be at the low end of the expected range of 35 cents to 45 cents. Results are not scheduled to be reported until late May. 

 In February, Hilfiger advised analysts of its expected profit range as it announced earnings would be reduced by $65 million before taxes in connection with a restructuring that includes closing its Beverly Hills, Calif., and London retail stores, and scrapping plans for a dressier women's line. 

 On Friday, the company also revised its outlook for the new fiscal year, predicting earnings would be 30 percent to 40 percent lower than fiscal 2000. 

 Industry watchers said Hilfiger was having trouble because it moved into too many different areas of business. Hilfiger used to be known for its trendy red, white and blue casual clothes for men and boys, but now it makes products for women and girls as well as home furnishings. 

 The depressed profits also are a result of shoppers turning to other designers and retail chains for their casual clothes. 

 "Its problems just continue to snowball," said Joseph Teklits, an analyst at Ferris Baker Watts Inc. in Baltimore. "It is a big ship and it started to go astray last year. You can't steer it back in a season." 

 Hilfiger is taking steps to boost its bottom line and reduce ballooning costs. But the company still warned Friday that its cost-cutting measures will be offset by big expenses to open more retail stores and develop its Web business, tommy.com. 

 Hilfiger in February announced that it had hired Morgan Stanley Dean Witter to perform a review of its various strategic and financial options, including acquisitions and new business opportunities. 

 From that review, the company announced Friday that it decided to buy back as much as $150 million in stock. 

 Hilfiger was also reportedly interested in buying designer brand Calvin Klein Industries Inc., but those talks apparently stalled in recent weeks over the purchase price. 

Rush

Document aprs000020010803dw4c07pbe




 Raytheon plans to sell engineering division, which is dragging down earnings 

 By JAY LINDSAY 
Associated Press Writer
484 words
12 April 2000
04:46
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 BOSTON (AP) - Raytheon is trying to sell its engineering and construction division, where the company said contract problems are dragging down first-quarter profits. 

 The profit warning Tuesday was the latest bad news at Lexington-based Raytheon, but analysts said plans to jettison the troubled Raytheon Engineering & Constructors division would be welcomed by the market. 

 "The fact that they're selling the business will be relatively well received," said Joseph Nadol of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. "They should really focus on defense." 

 As of the first quarter, the engineering unit's results won't be reported in continuing operations. That would put first-quarter earnings at 23 to 27 cents per diluted share, on par with analysts' expectations, the company said. 

 Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial were expecting 24 cents per share for the quarter. 

 The company said the loss attributable to the engineering division was 15 to 20 cents per diluted share. 

 The Engineering & Constructors division builds large-scale government and industrial projects, with a light transit rail system in New Jersey and a hydroelectric dam in the Philippines to its credit. 

 Nadol said the division's problems stem from four international contracts, its most troublesome a fixed-price contract with United Kingdom-based Entergy to build a natural gas-fired power plant outside London. 

 The project is at least $50 million over budget and overdue. Raytheon is liable for lost profits due to late project completion, which could add millions more to the company's losses, Nadol said. 

 Raytheon chairman and chief executive officer Daniel Burnham said the engineering unit's business is not central to the company's strategy. 

 "A sale, joint venture or spin-off of RE&C is in the best interests of Raytheon shareholders and RE&C," he said in a statement. 

 Raytheon spokesman David Polk declined to comment on any talks Raytheon was having regarding the divestiture of RE&C. 

 RE&C has about 7,600 employees, about 7.2 percent of the company's work force of 105,000. 

 "It's a relatively small part of the whole company," Nadol said, adding that the defense operations that make up the bulk of Raytheon's business seem to be performing adequately. 

 "This is not the worst news that's recently come out of the company," Nadol said. 

 Last year was particularly tough for Raytheon. In the last quarter of 1999, Raytheon's earnings fell 79 percent from the same period in 1998, dropping to $72 million from $341 million. 

 Raytheon's profits fell from $844 million in 1998 to $404 million last year. Meanwhile, its stock has fallen from a 52-week high of $76.56 1/4 in July, trading in the $20 range for the past couple of months. 

Rush

Document aprs000020010803dw4c07kuz




 U. Connecticut: CD REVIEW: Various Artists' 'Black Label: Hip-Hop 101' 

358 words
11 April 2000
U-Wire
UWIR
English
 (c) 2000 Copyright U-Wire. All Rights Reserved. 

 By Greg Watterworth, The Daily Campus (U. Connecticut) 

 STORRS, Conn. -- There are many huge fans of mainstream rap who run out to buy the newest Ruff Ryder's or Cash Money album the day they come out. However, the fans know nothing of the underground - a form of rap the industry properly calls Hip-Hop. It's different from rap, adding the Hip-Hop lifestyle into its music. Artists like J-Live, Necro, Masta Ace, Medina Green and Cage are only a few of the many that live in the dwellings of the underground. For those in need of some coaching to understand the music, Tommy Boy Black Label brings "Hip-Hop 101" to the table. 

 The lesson begins with Self Scientific's track "Best Part." In many ways, this is the album's highlight. The lyrical ability of Scientific, coupled with one of the best beats on the album, ends up making this the standout cut. But, this isn't the only good track the album has to offer. None of the other tracks disappoint. "So Good" is the newest offering from legendary group De La Soul. The group hasn't lost a step, even after being out of musical recording for 4 years. Defari comes through with "Blast," another great track currently getting a fair amount of air play. DJ Tony Touch gives a taste of his upcoming album with "What They May Seem," featuring Talib Kweli. Surprisingly, Touch rhymes alongside Kweli, and the end result comes off sounding exceptional. 

 The Alchemist produces "I Won't Be" by Royce the 5'9". While the beat sounds average for Alchemist's standards, Royce's lyrics and flow lace the track perfectly. Other standouts are the Jigmastas' "Let Me Hear It," Masta Ace's "Splash," and "I See" by Medina Green. 

 Because this is a compilation, the major snag is the lack of continuity presented by the constant switching of artists and sound. Fans of the underground will love this collection, and those wanting to try a sample of what the genre offers, should look no further. 

Document uwir000020010813dw4b00gyl




Morning Briefing Column
BUSINESS
MORNING BRIEFING  

From Bloomberg News And Post-Dispatch Reports.  
708 words
11 April 2000
St. Louis Post-Dispatch
SLMO
EDITION: FIVE STAR LIFT
PAGE: C2
English
Copyright 2000, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.  

Boeing seeks bigger alliances  

Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. is discussing broadening its cooperation with Boeing Co., the world's biggest aircraft maker.  

No timetable has been set and details have not been worked out, a spokesman said. Analyst Richard Aboulafia of the Teal Group Corp. in Virginia said expansion of ties between Mitsubishi and Boeing probably won't affect St. Louis Boeing workers.  

MHI has been a subcontractor for the U.S. company since 1969. It also helped develop Boeing's 777- and 767-series planes, as well as making the flaps for 747 jets.  

Boeing, which is seeking orders for its longer-range 777, and rival Airbus Industries, touting its A3XX "superjumbo," view Asia - and Japan in particular - as a growth market.  

In other developments, the U.K.'s Sunday Telegraph newspaper reported that Boeing is in talks with BAE Systems PLC, the U.K. defense company, which owns 20 percent of Airbus, that could lead to a $46 billion merger.  

Lockheed workers strike Fort Worth, Texas, plant  

Lockheed Martin Corp. union workers went on strike Monday at an F-16 fighter-jet plant in Fort Worth, Texas, after rejecting a new labor agreement.  

The 2,300 machinists rejected a proposed cost-of-living raise as too low and objected to Lockheed's refusal to pay severance to laid-off workers, said Steve Sleigh, a spokesman for the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers.  

The plant, which employs 10,500 workers, makes Lockheed's best selling F-16 fighter, as well as parts for the F-22, and is developing other aircraft.  

Former Waste Management chief received "quiet" loan  

Rodney Proto, the former president of U.S. trash hauler Waste Management Inc., received a $3.36 million interest-free loan from the company in 1999 without telling the board, board member Rod Hills said.  

Proto, who was fired in August as the company issued its third of four 1999 profit warnings, took out the loan in January 1999 to pay federal taxes, according to a proxy statement filed last week. He repaid it in May after he exercised Waste Management stock options and sold 300,000 shares for $16.58 million.  

Proto was among 15 company executives who sold shares eight weeks before Waste Management's first profit warning in July. The selling led to a federal investigation of accusations of insider trading that has yet to be concluded.  

Rosemore outbids Apex for Crown Central Petroleum  

Crown Central Petroleum Corp., an oil refiner and fuel seller, said shareholder Rosemore Inc. agreed to buy the rest of the company for about $67 million, ending a month-long bidding war with Apex Oil Co. of St. Louis, also a shareholder.  

Closely held Rosemore will pay $9.50 a share, 12 percent more than Friday's closing price.  

Rosemore's president is Edward Rosenberg, son of Crown Chairman Henry Rosenberg. The purchase values all of Crown at $95.7 million.  

Maytag deals Whirlpool big blow at Home Depot  

Maytag Corp. said all of Home Depot Inc.'s home-improvement stores will sell its washers, refrigerators and other large appliances by year-end, dealing a blow to larger rival Whirlpool Corp.  

Maytag has sold appliances at Home Depot's 15 Expo Design Centers, stores that feature home-decoration products. Home Depot has about 960 stores.  

Home Depot, which originally agreed to carry Whirlpool's products, halted orders after the biggest U.S. appliance maker had problems making deliveries. Appliances may generate as much as $2 billion in annual sales for Home Depot, according to analysts.  

American Airlines adds LA flights from Lambert  

American Airlines plans to beef up its service to St. Louis this summer. The carrier will add two daily nonstop flights between St. Louis and Los Angeles starting June 1.  

Other changes to American's schedule to and from Los Angeles include new service for Denver, Phoenix, and Oakland and expanded service to Boston, Las Vegas, and San Francisco.  

Stifel Nicolaus purchases Michigan brokerage offices  

St. Louis-based Stifel Nicolaus & Co. says it bought Anderson & Company's brokerage offices in Grand Haven and Fremont, Mich. Stifel now has 66 offices in 16 states.  

Document SLMO000020040607dw4b00vqu


 Business 
 Dell Computer Comeback on Wall Street 

 Bruce Francis, Mary Kathleen Flynn, Stuart Varney 
1,147 words
12 April 2000
00:30
CNNfn: Digital Jam
DGJM
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 BRUCE FRANCIS, CNNfn ANCHOR, DIGITAL JAM:  Well Dell Computer (URL: http://www.dell.com/) has bounced back from last year`s lows, the stock that is. The PC maker back on track after falling off its stele decade long growth streak. 

 MARY KATHLEEN FLYNN, CNNfn ANCHOR, DIGITAL JAM:  Now that Michael Dell has steered the company through troubled waters, he`s focused back on the future. FN`s Stuart Varney has an in depth look at that vision. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 STUART VARNEY, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): During the 1990s, Michael Dell was crowned the great wealth creator of the digital age: the prodigy  who spawned legions of Dellionaires with the computer company he founded before he turned 20. 

 MICHAEL DELL, FOUNDER, DELL COMPUTER: Why don`t we change this to the "as requested" (UNINTELLIGIBLE)? 

 UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: OK. 

 DELL:  OK? 

 VARNEY:  These days, Dell holds a very different title: stock market survivor who kept the faith while Wall Street questioned whether a super hot stock had turned into just another growth stock. 

 DELL:  The last, you know, year or two, it`s really been just a dramatic shift. 

 VARNEY:  Dell was referring to venture capital trends, but the dramatic shift could also apply to investor sentiment. Dell stock hit some bumps in `99 and tumbled early this year when Dell lowered the bar for earnings, its second profit warning in a row. But since then, Dell shares have bounded back, even rallying during the recent Nasdaq turmoil on the belief that the company was on a turnaround track. 

 Analysts we spoke to gave sole credit to the executive they simply refer to as Michael: one calling him a strategic visionary, another noting that  he`s a techie equal to any IT professional. 

 His passion for the technology clearly drives that vision. 

 DELL:  Companies are trying to figure out, what does this information age mean? You know, IT has gone from a sort of back-room activity to the board room, and it`s now -- this is going to fundamentally affect our survival as a business. 

 VARNEY: But Dell`s survival as a fast-growing business is still a matter of hot debate. As one skeptic put it, Dell`s the leader in a dying business as America`s number one PC maker. That`s a key reason why Dell is remaking itself as a supplier of service, building the Internet infrastructure. 

 (on camera):  Was there a moment then when the light bulb went off, you realized, this is it, this is a big thing? 

 DELL:  If there was a moment, it probably would have been in 1994 when the Internet sort of first came into being inside of Dell, and we saw that this was just a tremendous tool that we could use to communicate with our customers. 

 I would tell you that a lot of our growth and development on the Internet has been experiential and that we couldn`t have known everything at the very beginning. There`s just no way you can anticipate all the different paths this will take you on. 

 VARNEY:  What`s the next big thing? I mean, that`s a commonly asked question these days. We think the Internet is where it`s at now. What is next? 

 DELL:  Well, you know, the next big thing, you know, isn`t necessarily just one thing. I mean, there are lots of things that are happening that are quite exciting. You know, right now, this build-out that`s going, you know, around us in terms of the Internet infrastructure is just tremendous. 

 The number of servers that exist today are roughly 5 percent of what will exist five years from now, as there`s just a huge proliferation of companies and specialized servers that are being developed for all sorts  of activities, you know, online. So, that`s a massive opportunity for us. 

 VARNEY (voice-over): In a bid to grab that opportunity, Dell last year broke tradition by starring in his own ads. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP, DELL COMMERCIAL) 

 DELL: We`d like to show you how to empower your business in ways you`ve never imagined. I`m Michael Dell and it`s our reason for being. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 VARNEY:  It was a major change for the 35-year-old Texan who dropped out of the University of Texas after a year to found his company. Sixteen years later, Dell seems almost a reluctant member of the digital elite, sitting atop a $20 billion fortune. 

 (on camera):  What are you going to do with it? 

 DELL:  Probably give most of it away. 

 VARNEY (voice-over):  But while Dell is known for his unassuming style, one analyst told us that many people miss the fire in him. It`s a drive that will be key in pulling off the second act that Wall Street is waiting for. 

 DELL:  Well, fundamentally, I like to win. You know, I mean, that`s a pretty simple motivation that drives a lot of what I do. But more than that, you know, it`s great to be a part of an industry that is having profound effects on the way sort of everything functions in our society: from business to education to, you know, every aspect of society. And it`s really fun to be at the center of that. 

 There`s a lot of learning. There`s a lot of opportunity, a lot of excitement, a lot of change. And it`s great to be, you know, a part of that and to be able to be in that race. 

 Stuart Varney, CNN Financial News, Austin, Texas. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc.  ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by eMediaMillWorks, Inc.  (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.)  No license is granted to the  user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy  may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they  provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document dgjm000020010805dw4b000o0




 ANTITRUST ENFORCEMENT OVERSIGHT 

 BERT W. REIN 
1,136 words
11 April 2000
Congressional Testimony by Federal Document Clearing House
CGT
English
 (Copyright 2000 by Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) 

 APRIL 12, 2000 

 BY BERT W. REIN 

 TESTIMONY ON THE ANTITRUST ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES: THE BUREAU OF COMPETITION OF THE FEDERAL TRADE THE ANTITRUST DIVISION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE 

 THE JUDICIARY OF THE UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

 ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE 

 Good afternoon, Chairman Hyde, Mr. Conyers, and Members of the Committee. I am Bert Rein, a partner in the law firm of Wiley, Rein & Fielding. I am a former member of the Board of Directors of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and a current board member of the Chamber's public policy law firm, the National Chamber Litigation Center. 

 I am pleased and honored to be here today to testify on behalf of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is the world's largest business federation, representing more than three million businesses and organizations of every size, sector and region. One of those companies, Mylan Laboratories, is the subject of an action by the Federal Trade Commission which seeks "disgorgement" of supposedly unlawful gains arising from Mylan's use of methods of competition alleged to be unfair within the meaning of the Federal Trade Commission Act. My firm filed a brief for the Chamber in that case contesting, independent of the underlying merits, the authority and wisdom of the FTC's decision to pursue a disgorgement remedy in federal court rather than to challenge Mylan in the administrative arena where the Congress has instructed the FTC to play its legitimate role in antitrust enforcement. That brief is included in my written testimony. 

 I would like to explain why the Chamber believes that the FTC has overstepped its enforcement boundaries in the Mylan case and in its threats to bring other cases of this type in the future. The Committee should recognize that the FTC has seized upon a sliver of unrelated legislative authority to aggrandize its antitrust enforcement powers in a manner never contemplated by the Congress and alien to its own historic mandate. The FTC's new enforcement posture threatens to overdeter the innovative and aggressive business conduct which, particularly for the small and medium size businesses which form the bulk of the Chamber's membership, is the key to survival in an increasingly global, competitive environment. Thus, the Chamber urges this Committee to use its good offices and, if necessary, its legislating authority to properly contract what Chairman Pitofsky labelled a stretch of the FTC's enforcement boundaries. 

 In the Mylan case, the FTC challenges certain supply contracts which it believes permitted Mylan to foreclose generic drug competition in two anti-anxiety products and thus to expand its profit margins. These contracts were abandoned before the litigation commenced and were never claimed to be per se violations of the antitrust laws prosecutable criminally by the Antitrust Division. The Commission ordinarily would have challenged these contracts in an administrative cease and desist proceeding. That proceeding would have permitted the use of the FTC's expertise to test the alleged "unfairness" of Mylan's conduct and would have afforded Mylan and the business community generally fair warning of how the sometimes amorphous line between aggressive and "unfair" methods of competition would be drawn in this area before penalties were imposed. By so proceeding, the Commission would have played the unique, and somewhat non-duplicative, antitrust enforcement role Congress envisaged in its creation. 

 The Commission's decision to avoid any administrative proceeding and to seek the limelight of a high profile judicial proceeding required it to build a large enforcement superstructure on a minuscule legislative foundation. The Commission seized upon a fragment of language in Section 13(b) of its statute to assert the power to seek injunctive relief in court whenever it believes the standards of the Federal Trade Commission Act have been violated. It ignored the history of Section 13(b) which Congress had enacted only to afford judicial relief in a specialized class of non-antitrust', consumer protection cases and to permit preserving the status ago ante pending the administrative resolution of unfair methods cases like mergers where effective relief could be foreclosed by unchecked, intervening private activity. It translated the grant of injunctive remedial powers into equitable remedial powers and thus bootstrapped prohibitory power into the affirmative power to mandate disgorgement. It shifted the task of determining "unfairness" to the court and transformed itself from an adjudicatory to a prosecutorial agency - a capacity formerly and properly reserved to the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice. 

 The Chamber believes that this legal maneuver, however artful, breaches faith with the Congress. A fundamental change in the Commission's antitrust enforcement role should not be premised on a serendipitous ambiguity in legislative language addressing an unrelated issue. Congress could have given the FTC the express authority to bring unfair methods cases in court but it has not. Congress could have prescribed a disgorgement remedy but it has not. Indeed, there is not a shred of evidence that Congress ever considered, let alone condoned, the exercise of this prosecutorial authority by the FTC. The conclusion is, we believe, self-evident. Rather than "stretch" the law, the Commission should have extended itself toward the Congress and directly sought the authority it now wishes to exert. 

 The Chamber is concerned by the practical, as well as process, problems arising in the Mylan case. Following the Commission's lead, thirty-one state attorneys general brought parallel charges seeking multiple damages under federal and state law. Thirty separate private class-action antitrust law suits are also pending, each seeking treble damages without regard to the proposed disgorgement. What might have been handled as a reasonable challenge to a complex business practice with possibly significant competitive consequences, has turned into an all-out legal assault of a type where the magnitude of risk itself becomes a constraint on the ability to defend. This form of piling on has regrettably become an all- too-common problem for the American business community. 

 The Chamber believes that this Committee should give serious and urgent consideration to restoring Congress' original understanding of Section 13(b) by limiting permane injunctive relief to consumer protection cases. The Chamber also would urge this Committee to give additional attention to the "piling on" issue illustrated by the Mylan case and to consider means by which adequate deterrence and appropriate redress can be preserved without effectively foreclosing the ability of businesses to defend the legitimacy of their competitive conduct. 

 I would like to submit for the record the amicus brief filed by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in the Mylan case challenging the legality and wisdom of the Commission's assertion to seek disgorgement. 

 Thank you. I would be pleased to respond to any questions you may have. 

Document cgt0000020010804dw4b002us


BUSINESS
Venture financing bolsters Giage Inc. 

950 words
10 April 2000
The Cincinnati Post
CINP
English
© 2000 Cincinnati Post.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.  All rights reserved.  

Giage Inc., a Cincinnati-based Internet company that develops and sells software to help companies and individuals organize faxes, e- mails and other information, said Friday it had closed on $4.9 million in venture capital financing. 

Blue Chip Venture Co., of Cincinnati, led the round of financing, the first for Giage. CID Equity Partners, of Columbus, and the Walnut Group, of Cincinnati, also made investments. 

Giage said it would use the funding to extend its software line into large-scale enterprises, add to its executive management team, build a direct sales staff and increase distribution channels. 

Giage CEO Dan Meyer said the company plans soon to open a West Coast office and release an enterprise version of its WebSpace Professional software. 

The company, founded in 1995, recently expanded its office space at its East Ninth Street headquarters. 

CINCINNATI 

New board for incubator 

Main Street Ventures, a non-profit incubator for startup Internet firms based in Over-the-Rhine, has announced a new organizational structure and appointed a 15-member operating board. Walter Solomon, president of Stablehand Advisors, has been named president. Pete Blackshaw, founder and CEO of PlanetFeedback.com, will chair the public relations/marketing committee. Chris Evans, vice president and general manager of Eviciti, and Ed Estes, president of Digital Bang, will co-chair the communications committee and oversee Main Street Ventures' Web site, www.digitalrhine.com. Fred Diamond, managing principal of the Fund Evaluation Group, and Russell Ferneding, senior manager at Deloitte &Touche, will co-chair the finance committee. Rick Kieser, principal of River Cities Capital Funds, and Marc Fisher, managing principal of E-Rhine Capital, will co-chair the residents committee, which will set criteria for acceptance into Main Street Ventures. Kathleen Riehle, vice president at Synchrony Communications, and Rick Setzer, president of CTS Telecommunications will co-chair the events/education committee. Shawn Reynolds, vice president of VisualNet Communications, and James Zimmerman, an attorney with Taft, Stettinius &Hollister, will co-chair the legal/ real estate committee. MSV founder George Molinsky and Brad Wolfe, vice president of Conley, Canitano &Associates, will co-chair the participants committee. Jeff Boron, vice president of VisualNet Communications, will chair the community involvement committee. 

NEW YORK 

Hilfiger stock plummets 

Tommy Hilfiger Corp.'s stock plunged more than 30 percent Friday, falling to a five-year low, after the fashion house warned earnings will be on the low end of analysts' expectations because of continued sluggish sales. News of the earnings shortfall comes amid tough times for the trendy clothing manufacturer, which has been struggling in recent months with a steep decline in sales in both its men's and women's lines. This is the second profit warning by the New York- based company this year. Hilfiger shares closed down $4.43 3/4, or by 32 percent, at $9.37 1/2 Friday as one of the most active issues on the New York Stock Exchange, its lowest level since February 1995. 

SAN LEANDRO, CALIF. 

VF to acquire North Face 

A day after North Face acknowledged it might be forced to file for bankruptcy, the sportswear and outdoor equipment maker announced it will be acquired by apparel company VF Corp. for about $25 million. The agreement calls for VF to acquire all 12.7 million shares of North Face for about $2 per share, the companies said Friday. On Thursday, North Face said in a statement that its financial condition raised "substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern." In response, North Face shares fell $2.47, or 67 percent, ending at $1.22 on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Greensboro, N.C.-based VF owns such brands as Lee, Wrangler, Jantzen, Lily of France and JanSport. 

ATLANTA 

Help on way for WebMD 

Two Internet pioneers on the board of Healtheon/WebMD are proposing to pump up to $220 million into the online health-care company, hoping to restore confidence in a stock that is trading near its lowest level ever. Investors responded to Friday's disclosure by pushing shares of the Atlanta-based company nearly 35 percent higher on the Nasdaq Stock Market, where Healtheon/WebMD gained $7.50 a share to $29.18 3/4. The news of the investment plans of Jim Clark and John Doerr overshadowed Healtheon/WebMD's separate projections Friday of an operating loss of about 50 cents a share for the first three months of this year. That's deeper than the 47-cent-a-share loss expected by analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. Results will be reported in late April or early May. 

WASHINGTON 

Rail mergers remain on hold 

Federal rail regulators on Friday rejected requests to lift their recent moratorium on new railroad mergers, saying the freeze is necessary to give them time to craft new rules to deal with a rapidly consolidating industry. The Surface Transportation Board rebuffed bids by Texas-based Burlington Northern Santa Fe and Canadian National Railway to lift the 15-month moratorium, which the regulators enacted just three weeks ago. The two railroads argued that regulators lack authority to refuse to accept new merger filings and should stay their decision pending court review. BNSF and CN are seeking to merge in a $6 billion deal. 

COLUMBUS, OHIO 

Aurora leaving Columbus 

Aurora Foods, maker of a variety of products, including Mrs. Butterworth's syrup and Duncan Hines, is closing its Columbus offices to consolidate its operations in St. Louis. The company said Thursday that 65 jobs are affected. Some workers are being offered transfers to St. Louis, but Aurora wouldn't say how many would move or when the transfers would take place.  

BUSINESS REPORT

Document cinp000020010804dw4a005mn




REVIEW & PREVIEW
 REVIEW & PREVIEW 

 Edited by Robin Goldwyn Blumenthal 
2,087 words
10 April 2000
Barron's
B
10
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Last Week 


                     Dow Indicator



Dow Industrials       11,111.48   +189.56
Dow World Index          254.30   -  0.53
30-Year Treasury Bonds     5.697% -  0.134



BRIGHT, SHINY LIE?



Caveat Empty: If a Phone Pitch



Sounds Too Good to Be True . . .



What goes up must come down, but the reverse ain't necessarily so, as
investors in an alleged preciousmetals futures scam may have learned.



The alleged fraud was outlined in a recent complaint by the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission in federal court in Charlotte, North
Carolina. It charged that telemarketers operating under the names of IBS
and IMC Trading had defrauded customers of a total of about $18 million
from 1995 to 1999, by operating "essentially a black market in futures
trading," said Lawrence H. Norton, associate director for division
enforcement at the CFTC. The suit also names three individuals: Alan
Stein, Joseph Finateri and Michael Temple.



According to court papers, the telemarketers sold highly leveraged
futures contracts in precious metals, promising big returns in a short
time on the investments, without disclosing the risk. The CFTC charges
the telemarketers took "a huge, 40% commission, which ensured you an
immediate loss," Norton said. IBS and/or IMC then charged customers
additional fees, which drove up the break-even price on the investment
each month, the CFTC alleges. Though IMC claims it's an offshore entity,
operating from the Bahamas since 1998, the CFTC charges that the
telemarketers actually operated out of Charlotte, and that they had done
business in other states.



A federal judge in Charlotte appointed a receiver over the
telemarketers' assets, which were prompty frozen. The CFTC was to have
asked Friday that the order be extended, and to have the telemarketers
cited for contempt for failing to testify, but the hearing was postponed
until April 19.



Monroe Whitesides, who represents Finateri, had sought the
postponement "until we can adequately address the issues." Whitesides
was hired last week, after Finateri and the other two defendants refused
to answer any questions at a deposition. The court appointed lawyers for
the other two, whose attorneys didn't return calls seeking comment.
Meanwhile, the FBI in Charlotte said a criminal investigation is
continuing.



Verdict Against Microsoft:



A federal judge issued a broad ruling against the software giant,
finding it violated antitrust laws by illegally protecting its Windows
operating system monopoly and attempting to monopolize the market for
Internet browsers. Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson also ruled Microsoft
illegally tied Windows to its Internet Explorer software. Microsoft will
appeal, but said it is still open to negotiating an out-of-court
settlement.



Volatility Central:



News that Microsoft settlement talks broke off over the weekend
whipsawed the markets, with the Nasdaq Composite Index falling more than
300 points Monday and the Dow Jones Industrial Average gaining that
amount. The late-Monday ruling added volatility, with the Nasdaq
tumbling 13.6% Tuesday on panic selling to cover margin calls. The Dow
plummeted 500-plus points, but both indexes recovered much of their
losses. The Dow rose 190 points on the week, to 11,111.48, while
Friday's 4.2% spurt in the Nasdaq put it at 4446.45, containing its loss
to 126 points.



Smoking Damages:



A Florida jury ordered major tobacco makers to pay two smokers $6.9
million, and a third smoker $5.8 million, opening the door to possible
multibillion-dollar punitive damages that could put the industry into
bankruptcy. The so-called Engle trial is the first smokers' class action
to come to trial. The defendants: Philip Morris; R.J. Reynolds; Brown &
Williamson, a division of BAT Industries; Lorillard Tobacco, of Loews
parentage; Brooke Group's Liggett Group; the industry's Council for
Tobacco Research and Tobacco Institute. Reynolds will appeal, and Philip
Morris plans a substantial defense on the punitive damages.



A Lotta Jobs:



Nonfarm payrolls swelled 416,000 in March, the biggest gain since
1996, but more than half the gain came from special factors. The
unemployment rate held steady at 4.1% and long-term bond prices, buoyed
by rumors of more buybacks, rallied, pushing the yield on the 30-year
Treasury down to 5.70% at week's end.



Deal's Off:



A $29 billion merger between Germany's Dresdner Bank and Deutsche
Bank fell apart, with the CEO of Dresdner, which ended the deal,
resigning (see page MW10). Dresdner, meanwhile, said pretax profit
surged 60% in the first two months of the year.



In the Vanguard:



The Vanguard 500 Index Fund surpassed Fidelity Investments' Magellan
Fund as the world's largest mutual fund, with $107.2 billion in assets.
Magellan, which had held the spot for 11 years, had $107.1 billion in
assets.



To Your Healtheon:



Two prominent directors of online health information company
Healtheon/WebMD plan to buy up to $220 million of its stock in the open
market, as the shares have been pummeled to less than 20% of their high.
But Britain's Queen Elizabeth II is flush, making almost a $1.5 million
profit on a public offering of Getmapping.com.



A New Leader in Japan:



The country chose Yoshiro Mori as its prime minister, after Keizo
Obuchi fell into a coma. Mori indicated he'll continue Obuchi's economic
policies.



Odds 'n' Ends:



-- Celera Genomics Group sequenced 99% of all human genetic material.



-- Tommy Hilfiger shares tumbled after it issued another profitwarning.



-- Xerox cut its CEO's compensation 76% last year.



-- Nabisco invited Carl Icahn to submit a bid, after he raised his
offer $3 a share.



-- Bulldog Capital Management said its $200 million Foxhound Fund
lost most of its value last week.



This Week



              Coming U.S. Auctions Yields
                             When      Last
DAY                         Issued    Auction
 M   $8.5 bil.   3-month     5.69%     5.710%
     $7.5 bil.   6-month     5.85%     5.900%
  *As of Friday afternoon.



10-Ks FOR TYROS:



Talking the Talk May Soon



Be Easier, Financially Speaking



Remember DOS for Dummies? Those who do and lived to start their own
Web pages on the Internet should be cheered by the notion that the often
daunting world of financial reporting should soon become easier to
navigate with a new computer language called XBRL. The language tags
financial information so that the numbers contained in a company's 10-K,
for instance, could be downloaded into a spreadsheet and compared
electronically with that of another company's, regardless of what each
means by the word "cash."



XBRL, or extensible business reporting language, is based on XML, the
successor language to HTML, and can be used across all software and
technologies, including the Internet. But unlike HTML, which basically
tells the computer how material is going to look on a Web page, XML
gives the computer some information about a document's content. So, it's
conceivable that XBRL may one day make it possible for the individual
investor to talk the same talk as a company's CFO, and ask key
questions.



The brainchild of a group of financial, accounting and software
companies brought together by the American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants, a professional organization that helps set auditing and
accounting standards, XBRL for financial statements was put out for
review last week, and is expected to be available in July.



XBRL is "at least as dramatic as going from paper filings to EDGAR,"
says Mark Schnitzer, a group member and consultant to EDGAR Online,
which publishes SEC filings. Mike Willis, a PricewaterhouseCoopers
partner who chaired the group's steering committee, says XBRL should
reduce the cost of Internet publishing by 30%-50%, and will enable
"retail investors to do their own financial analysis."



But analysts, and even reporters, may wonder if such newfangled
technology will, ah, obviate the need for them. To that, Willis
responds: "We think it will push people into a higher level of
analysis."



MONDAY



-- Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan speaks via satellite to
the National Automated Clearing House Association and the National
Electronic Payments Association conference in Los Angeles. He has public
appearances every day but Wednesday this week.



-- Goodyear Tire & Rubber holds its annual meeting in Akron, Ohio.



TUESDAY



-- The European Commission issues its spring economic forecasts,
along with plans for the EU's broad economic policy guidelines for the
year ahead.



-- Internet financier CMGI hosts its biannual summit in Andover,
Massachusetts, where roughly half of its companies typically present
their business plans to the investment community.



-- Jerry Yang, founder of Yahoo, speaks in Washington about the
future of the Internet.



-- Finnish telecom company Nokia splits its shares 4-for-1. IPO
lockup restrictions expire on Women.com Networks.



WEDNESDAY



-- International Monetary Fund chief economist Michael Mussa holds a
news conference on the World Economic Outlook; World Bank President
James Wolfensohn speaks as well.



-- Virginia Governor James Gilmore, who heads a commission advising
Congress, releases a report on e-commerce taxation and speaks in
Washington.



-- Look who's protesting now: Union members rally in Washington to
urge Congress not to grant China permanent Normal Trade Relations
status.



THURSDAY



-- The Senate Banking Committee hears from Greenspan on the
regulatory and structural environment for the changing securities
markets.



-- Micron Technology speaks to analysts in Boise, Idaho, today and
tomorrow. Thailand's markets are closed, today and tomorrow.



FRIDAY



-- Greenspan speaks on technology and financial services at a
conference hosted by the Journal of Financial Services Research and the
American Enterprise Institute.



SATURDAY



-- It's April 15; do you know where your tax returns are? Don't
panic, though. This year, they are timely if postmarked by Monday, April
17.



-- Group of Seven finance ministers and central bankers meet in
Washington ahead of the IMF/World Bank spring meetings. IMF Managing
Director Horst Koehler holds a news conference.



-- Lockup restrictions expire on Martha Stewart Living and World
Wrestling Federation, which means more than 80% of each company's shares
will be available for sale Monday.



---
                    COMING EARNINGS
                           Consensus      Year
DAY                        Estimate       Ago
 M  BE Aerospace (4Q)       $0.37        $0.62
    Biogen (1Q)              0.43         0.29
    Motorola (1Q)            0.58         0.28
 T  Abbott Labs (1Q)         0.44         0.43
    Assoc First Cap (1Q)     0.51         0.46
    Bestfoods (1Q)           0.54         0.49
    Harley-Davidson (1Q)     0.47         0.38
    Int'l Paper-a (1Q)       0.58         0.08
    SunTrust Banks-b (1Q)    1.06         0.91
 W  Adv Micro Dev-c (1Q)     0.51        (0.81)
    Check Pt Softwr (1Q)     0.35         0.25
    Delphi Auto Sys (1Q)     0.56         0.50
    Dow Jones-d (1Q)         0.80         0.44
    Enron (1Q)               0.37         0.34
    Fannie Mae-e (1Q)        1.01         0.88
    JP Morgan (1Q)           2.72         3.01
    Rambus (2Q)              0.14         0.08
    Redback Networks (1Q)    0.03         n.a.
Th  Ameritrade (2Q)         (0.04)        0.05
    Bausch & Lomb (1Q)       0.41         0.26
    First Union-f (1Q)       0.85         0.88
    Gateway (1Q)             0.41         0.31
    Gen'l Motors-g (1Q)      2.65         2.68
    Guidant-h (1Q)           0.38         0.32
    KLA-Tencor (3Q)          0.32         0.11
    Marriott Int'l (1Q)      0.39         0.38
    PMC-Sierra (1Q)          0.16         0.09
    Sun Microsys-i (3Q)      0.23         0.18
 F  Boise Cascade (1Q)       0.60         0.22
    Global Marine (1Q)       0.06         0.21
    National City-j (1Q)     0.55         0.54
    Powerwave Tech (1Q)      0.33         0.11
  (Earnings are diluted and report dates are tentative.)
a-3/99 restated downward from $0.14 for pooling acquisition.
b-3/99 excl. $0.03 acquisition expense.
c-3/99 excl. $0.07 restructuring charge.
d-3/99 excl. $0.12 asset-sale gain.
e-3/99 excl. $0.01 early debt retirement.
f-3/99 excl. $0.25 restructuring charge and $0.27 acquisition expense.
g-3/99 excl. $0.36 income from discontinued operations.
h-3/99 restated downward from $0.33 for pooling acquisition.
i-3/99 excl. $0.04 in-process R&D.
j-3/99 excl. $0.01 acquisition charge.
Source: First Call/Thomson Financial (www.firstcall.com)
---
                       CONSENSUS ESTIMATE
Day  Time                             Consensus   Last
                                      Estimate    Period
Th    8:30  March PPI                     0.5%     1.0%
            March Retail Sales            0.2%     1.1%
 F    8:30  March CPI                     0.5%     0.5%
            Feb. Business Investories     0.5%     0.5%
      9:15  March Industrial Production   0.3%     0.3%
            March Capacity Utilization   81.7%    81.7%
Unless otherwise indicated, times are a.m. Eastern.
Sources: Technical Data, Market News.


Document b000000020010803dw4a000wb




 Tommy Hilfiger's stock plunges after disappointing earnings' outlook 

 By RACHEL BECK 
AP Business Writer
499 words
7 April 2000
19:49
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Tommy Hilfiger Corp.'s stock plunged more than 30 percent Friday, falling to a five-year low, after the fashion house warned earnings will be on the low end of analysts' expectations because of continued sluggish sales. 

 News of the earnings shortfall comes amid tough times for the trendy clothing manufacturer, which has been struggling in recent months with a steep decline in sales in both its men and women's lines. 

 This is the second profit warning by the New York-based company this year. 

 Hilfiger shares closed down $4.43 3/4 , or by 32 percent, at $9.37 1/2 Friday as one of the most active issues on the New York Stock Exchange, its lowest level since February 1995. Almost 11 million shares changed hands as a number of investment firms downgraded its stock. 

 Hilfiger said that its earnings per share for the fourth quarter of the fiscal year that ended March 31were be at the low end of the expected range of 35 cents to 45 cents. Results are not scheduled to be reported until late May. 

 In February, Hilfiger advised analysts of its expected profit range as it announced earnings would be reduced by $65 million before taxes in connection with a restructuring that includes closing its Beverly Hills, Calif., and London retail stores, and scrapping plans for a dressier women's line. 

 On Friday, the company also revised its outlook for the new fiscal year, predicting earnings would be 30 percent to 40 percent lower than fiscal 2000. 

 Industry watchers said Hilfiger was having trouble because it moved into too many different areas of business. Hilfiger used to be known for its trendy red, white and blue casual clothes for men and boys, but now it makes products for women and girls as well as home furnishings. 

 The depressed profits also are a result of shoppers turning to other designers and retail chains for their casual clothes. 

 "Its problems just continue to snowball," said Joseph Teklits, an analyst at Ferris Baker Watts Inc. in Baltimore. "It is a big ship and it started to go astray last year. You can't steer it back in a season." 

 Hilfiger is taking steps to boost its bottom line and reduce ballooning costs. But the company still warned Friday that its cost-cutting measures will be offset by big expenses to open more retail stores and develop its Web business, tommy.com. 

 Hilfiger in February announced that it had hired Morgan Stanley Dean Witter to perform a review of its various strategic and financial options, including acquisitions and new business opportunities. 

 From that review, the company announced Friday that it decided to buy back as much as $150 million in stock. 

 Hilfiger was also reportedly interested in buying designer brand Calvin Klein Industries Inc., but those talks apparently stalled in recent weeks over the purchase price. 

Rush

Document aprs000020010803dw4707by6




BUSINESS
Fn
Earnings warning hurts Hilfiger stock; 

-DATELINE- 
762 words
7 April 2000
Chicago Sun-Times
CHI
English
© 2000 Chicago Sun Times.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.  All rights reserved.  

Earnings warning hurts Hilfiger stock 

Tommy Hilfiger Corp.'s stock plunged more than 30 percent today, falling to a five-year low, after the fashion house warned that earnings will be on the low end of analysts' expectations because of continued sluggish sales. News of the earnings shortfall comes amid tough times for the trendy clothing manufacturer, which has been struggling in recent months with a steep decline in sales in both its men and women's lines. This is the second profit warning by the New York-based company this year. 

KLM pushes merger with Alitalia SpA 

KLM Royal Dutch Airlines NV is stepping up efforts to merge with Alitalia SpA as they await an Italian government decision by April 20 that could resolve troubles at Milan's new Malpensa Airport, their joint hub. The Dutch carrier is being advised by Amro Holding NV and Alitalia by Credit Suisse First Boston on whether to merge, though the combination will depend on the government meeting their demands for better access to Malpensa. Benefits from the airlines' agreement to mesh cargo and passenger operations have been waylaid by problems at Malpensa, where local residents are upset about noise and as other airlines resist shifting from Milan's older airport. Once Malpensa is fully operational, the partners can move toward a full merger to help drive down costs and return to profit. 

Blum owns 6.1% of Navigant Consulting 

Blum Capital Partners L.P., reported holding a 6.1 percent stake in Navigant Consulting Inc., a Chicago-based utility consulting company, according to a Securities and Exchange Commission filing. Blum Capital Partners and its affiliates, based in San Francisco and controlled by Richard C. Blum, used its working capital funds to buy 505,000 shares between March 28 and April 5 with prices ranging from $10.31 a share to $10.50 a share. That includes the purchase of 147,900 shares on April 4 with a per-share price of $10.34. Blum Capital Partners now own 2.5 million shares. The stock was purchased for investment, according to the filing. Blum is married to Sen. Dianne Feinstein, a California Democrat. 

CompUSA to cut 1,500 workers 

CompUSA Inc., which was bought last month by Mexico's Grupo Sanborns SA, said it plans to fire about 1,500 employees, or 7.5 percent of its work force, to reduce expenses. The company is eliminating 2,150 back-office and other support staff while adding 650 in sales and customer service. Some of the employees whose positions are being eliminated will receive new jobs, said Stacie Shirley, vice president of finance. CompUSA has been reorganizing to cut costs after being acquired by Grupo Sanborns. The company pulled the plug on its Cozone.com Internet sales Web site last month and merged the business into the CompUSA.com site. It also promoted Chief Operating Officer Harold F. Compton to chief executive after James Halpin retired. CompUSA, based in Dallas, has about 218 stores, and also sells its own custom-made personal computers. An average of four to five positions will be cut from each of its stores, the company said. 

Levitz, Seaman to share some functions 

Levitz Furniture Inc., a retailer under bankruptcy protection, agreed to share management and some business functions with rival Seaman Furniture Co. as part of a plan to become solvent. Levitz and most of Seaman will be owned by a new holding company, Levitz Home Furnishing Inc. Closely held Seaman will manage Levitz's U.S. East Coast stores and provide administrative support for other locations. Marketing, product selection and inventory for Seaman's 51 stores and some Levitz stores will be combined to cut costs, the companies said. The retailers, which together have 115 stores, said they expect to continue operating as separate companies in other respects. The agreement is subject to bankruptcy court approval, which Levitz said it expects to receive by about August. 

Soybeans, grains rise on CBOT 

Soybean prices rose today on the Chicago Board of Trade, taking grains with them, thanks to a late rally attributed to widespread talk of a large purchase of U.S. soybeans by China. Wheat for May delivery rose 4 3/4 cents to $2.58 1/2 a bushel; May corn rose 2 1/4 cents to $2.29 1/4 a bushel; May oats rose 1 1/2 cent to $1.22 1/4 a bushel; May soybeans rose 7 3/4 cents to $5.38 3/4 a bushel.  

Document chi0000020010804dw4700b06




 Tommy Hilfiger's Stock Plunges 

 By RACHEL BECK 
AP Business Writer
499 words
7 April 2000
AP Online
ASP
English
 Copyright 2000 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Tommy Hilfiger Corp.'s stock plunged more than 30 percent Friday, falling to a five-year low, after the fashion house warned earnings will be on the low end of analysts' expectations because of continued sluggish sales. 

 News of the earnings shortfall comes amid tough times for the trendy clothing manufacturer, which has been struggling in recent months with a steep decline in sales in both its men and women's lines. 

 This is the second profit warning by the New York-based company this year. 

 Hilfiger shares closed down $4.43 3/4 , or by 32 percent, at $9.37 1/2 Friday as one of the most active issues on the New York Stock Exchange, its lowest level since February 1995. Almost 11 million shares changed hands as a number of investment firms downgraded its stock. 

 Hilfiger said that its earnings per share for the fourth quarter of the fiscal year that ended March 31were be at the low end of the expected range of 35 cents to 45 cents. Results are not scheduled to be reported until late May. 

 In February, Hilfiger advised analysts of its expected profit range as it announced earnings would be reduced by $65 million before taxes in connection with a restructuring that includes closing its Beverly Hills, Calif., and London retail stores, and scrapping plans for a dressier women's line. 

 On Friday, the company also revised its outlook for the new fiscal year, predicting earnings would be 30 percent to 40 percent lower than fiscal 2000. 

 Industry watchers said Hilfiger was having trouble because it moved into too many different areas of business. Hilfiger used to be known for its trendy red, white and blue casual clothes for men and boys, but now it makes products for women and girls as well as home furnishings. 

 The depressed profits also are a result of shoppers turning to other designers and retail chains for their casual clothes. 

 "Its problems just continue to snowball," said Joseph Teklits, an analyst at Ferris Baker Watts Inc. in Baltimore. "It is a big ship and it started to go astray last year. You can't steer it back in a season." 

 Hilfiger is taking steps to boost its bottom line and reduce ballooning costs. But the company still warned Friday that its cost-cutting measures will be offset by big expenses to open more retail stores and develop its Web business, tommy.com. 

 Hilfiger in February announced that it had hired Morgan Stanley Dean Witter to perform a review of its various strategic and financial options, including acquisitions and new business opportunities. 

 From that review, the company announced Friday that it decided to buy back as much as $150 million in stock. 

 Hilfiger was also reportedly interested in buying designer brand Calvin Klein Industries Inc., but those talks apparently stalled in recent weeks over the purchase price. 

AP-Tommy-Hilfiger-Outlook; D73N50D80

Document asp0000020010804dw4700zro




 Housing May Be Off Peaks But Bldg-Pdt Companies Don't Suffer 

1,447 words
6 April 2000
19:25
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 By Desiree J. Hanford 

 ST. LOUIS -(Dow Jones)- Housing numbers that are off their peaks and rising interest rates would seem to be enough to derail first-quarter results for building-products companies, but analysts expect the sector to have a solid, albeit not spectacular, reporting period that should have no surprises. 

 "In general, business is chugging along nicely, but I doubt that we'll have enormous positive surprises like we've had in the past," said Arnhold & S. Bleichroeder analyst Barbara Allen. "But we'll still have good year-over-year comparisons." 

 Housing numbers are mixed and are off their peaks from last year. The Commerce Department said new home sales fell 0.5% in February to an annual rate of 919,000, from January's level of 924,000. 

 While the number of new home sales fell, it was still well above what Wall Street had been expecting, which may indicate the Federal Reserve's attempts to slow the economy by raising interest rates isn't having a big effect. 

 The Federal Reserve has raised interest rates five times since June, most recently in March when the federal funds rates was increased a quarter point. Some market observers expect another increase when the Fed meets in May. 

 Building permits, which typically indicates future building activity, slid 6.7% in February to a seasonally-adjusted rate of 1.653 million. 

 On the positive side, the National Association of Realtors said sales of existing homes rose 6.7% in February to an annual rate of 4.75 million. That follows a 13.4% decline in January to a 4.45 million rate. 

 Housing starts rose 1.3% in February to an annual rate of 1.781 million, the highest level since January 1999. Single-family home starts, however, fell 3.9% to 1.310 million, the lowest level since September. 

 Salomon Smith Barney analyst Stephen S. Kim said that while some people are worried the housing cycle peaked a few months ago, he thinks they should also remember that many of them were worried a few years ago about whether the cycle had peaked. He noted that building-products companies came through those periods with flying colors. 

 Weather typically has a major role in how well building-products companies do in the first quarter. Although the weather was generally good across the U.S., it was also ideal in the year-ago period and that may lead to some tough comparisons for companies. 

 "March is really the critical month because it accounts for 50% to 70% of earnings for some companies," said Warburg Dillon Reed LLC analyst Trip Rodgers. "And I think March had generally favorable weather, with some exceptions." 

 Other factors that will affect the sector's results include rising fuel, labor and raw materials expenses. 


   Armstrong Issued A 1Q Profit Warning In March



Two companies have already given Wall Street an indication of what
they expect to earn for the quarter. Armstrong World Industries Inc.
(ACK) on March 28 said continued weak sales in Europe and rising prices
of raw materials will likely lead it to report first-quarter earnings
between 65 cents a share and 75 cents. At the time, analysts polled by
First Call/Thomson Financial had a consensus of 99 cents a share.
Analysts now have a consensus of 69 cents a share.



The Lancaster, Pa., company reported earnings of $1.20 a share in the
year-ago period.



Banc of America Securities LLC analyst Paul M. Brandeis has cut his
first-quarter estimates three times, from a high of $1.11 a share to the
current level of 65 cents a share. He's also lowered his full-year
estimates.



"The company did talk about some positives for the quarter, but
there's still some significant issues they need to get through,"
Brandeis said, noting that the company known for its flooring products
shuffled its top management last month and is still dealing with
asbestos liability.



Paint and coatings maker Sherwin-Williams Co. (SHW) gave Wall Street
some good news on March 23, saying it expects to earn between 22 cents a
share and 24 cents for the first quarter thanks to higher-than-expected
sales. At the time, analysts had a consensus of 20 cents a share; the
consensus is now 22 cents a share. The Cleveland company earned 17 cents
a share in the year-ago period.



Sherwin-Williams said it expects sales growth in the mid-single
digits, up from previous estimates in the low-single digits.



Chicago-based USG Corp. (USG), which sells "Sheetrock" gypsum
wallboard and "Durock" cement board, is expected to earn $2.12 a share
in the first quarter, up from $1.71 in the year-ago period. Analysts
said there was some industry-wide normal seasonal demand weakness for
wallboard in January and February, but there was some pick up in March.



After hitting some highs in the fourth quarter, the industry also saw
wallboard prices also come down somewhat in the fourth quarter. Rodgers
said USG's prices were $165.50 per 1,000 sq. ft. in the fourth quarter,
but he expects them to be between $155 and $160 per 1,000 sq. ft. in the
first quarter.



Rodgers, who is looking for USG to earn $1.99 a share, expects
wallboard prices industry-wide to decline even further in 2000,
especially in the second half of the year.



Centex Construction Products Inc. (CXP) in Dallas is in both wallboard
and cement. Wall Street expects Centex to earn $1.11 a share for the
fourth quarter, up from 87 cents a share in the year-ago period.



Allen, who is looking for Centex to earn $1.06 a share, expects it to
benefit from solid demand in both cement and wallboard, even though
prices in both aren't moving upward.



Cement producer Southdown Inc. (SDW) in Houston is expected to earn 70
cents a share for the quarter, a nickel more than it earned in the
year-ago period, including a gain on the sale of a noncore operation.



Although cement producers have yet to benefit from Congress renewing
the Intermodal Surface Transportation Act, some analysts think they are
on verge of doing so. The act was renewed when Congress approved the
Transportation Equity Act in 1998, which increases spending on highways
and other public infrastructure. Scott & Stringfellow analyst Jack
Kasprzak noted that some markets, including Chicago, have been very
aggressive in ramping up their public projects.



   Outlook for Second Quarter Remains Steady



With consumers continuing to remodel their homes, Masco Corp. (MAS) in
Taylor, Mich., is expected to continue benefiting from that trend.
Merrill Lynch & Co. analyst Jonathan Goldfarb expects Masco, the maker
of building and home-improvement products, to earn 40 cents a share.
That's slightly above the First Call consensus of 39 cents. Masco earned
34 cents in the year-ago period.



Goldfarb noted that 75% of Masco's business is from home improvement
purchases and 25% is from new housing work. He said the acquisitions
that Masco has made in the last year are working out as expected.



Analysts expect Owens Corning (OWC) in Toledo, Ohio, to earn 83 cents
a share, up from 77 cents a year ago.



Brandeis said tool maker Stanley Works (SWK) in New Britain, Conn.,
has been plagued by little, if any, sales growth the last few years,
stemming from fill rate and operational problems. Still, he noted that
Stanley has exceeded Wall Street's estimates for two quarters in a row
after five straight misses.



Brandeis expects Stanley to earn 51 cents a share, which is the
consensus number. The company earned 48 cents a share, excluding items,
in the year-ago period.



Analysts expect Black & Decker Corp. (BDK) in Towson, Md., which makes
power tools and accessories, to earn 49 cents a share, up from 44 cents
a year ago. Brandeis, who is looking for 47 cents a share but is
comfortable with the consensus, said Black and Decker is benefiting from
new products and strong market share at some big-box retailers.



As for the second quarter, analysts expect building-products companies
to continue at a steady earnings pace. They note that the weather is
more conducive to construction than in the first quarter, although many
expect housing numbers to continue moderating. Cement companies are
expected to benefit even more from public works spending.



"We're looking for continued good steady growth, nothing wild and
crazy but things moving along," Allen said.



-By Desiree J. Hanford, Dow Jones Newswires, 314-588-8443


Document dj00000020010805dw4601gr2




stagecoach hit by first profit alert  

JONATHAN PRYNN  
440 words
3 April 2000
The Evening Standard
NS
D
39
English
(c) 2000 Associated Newspapers. All rights reserved  

BRIAN SOUTER'S high-profile transport group Stagecoach today issued the first profit warning since the company was founded 20 years ago, sending its shares crashing by nearly a fifth and wiping around Pounds 300 million off its stock market value.  

The company said rising fuel prices and problems in recruiting bus drivers were pushing up its costs in Britain and at its recently acquired US subsidiary Coach USA.  

It is also writing down the value of its Scottish airport, Prestwick, by Pounds 30 million following the loss of one of its biggest contracts.  

Although the company, which has its financial year end at the end of this month, would provide no precise indication of the likely impact on group profits, it said that profits from the core British buses operation would be around the same as last year.  

Stagecoach is also selling its train leasing company Porter-brook to Abbey National for a total of Pounds 1.44 billion.  

The disposal will result in a net inflow of cash of Pounds 773 million, some of which will be used to fund a Pounds 250 million share buyback.  

The profits warning was a further blow for the company that once could do no wrong. It was founded by chairman Souter and his sister Ann in 1980 with two second-hand buses.  

After years of meteoric growth that boosted the founders' personal fortune to around Pounds 600 million, it has recently been hit by a series of setbacks, including the loss of its chief executive and a flagging share price.  

Souter has been attacked by gay and lesbian groups for his leadership of the campaign against the abolition of Clause 28.  

New chief executive Keith Cochrane, said it was "important to give a realistic overview" of Stagecoach's prospects but said the long-term outlook for the company remained rosy.  

He said trading in other parts of the Stagecoach empire, particularly Hong Kong and New Zealand and in the British rail franchises, remained strong.  

Cochrane said the US problems were not unique to Stagecoach but were hitting the entire bus industry.  

The company has just embarked on integrating the diverse Coach USA businesses and said benefits would only start to flow through in the longer term.  

The wording of the statement will be closely watched in the City as most of Britain's major bus companies have followed Stagecoach's example and made major US acquisitions in the past year.  

Within minutes of the lunchtime announcement Stagecoach shares fell 201/2p to 101p, having fallen as low as 90p at one stage.  

949141664

Document NS00000020061020dw43002n9


News
PLAYING SOLITAIRE AT WORK? THINK AGAIN SOFTWARE LETS EMPLOYERS KNOW WHAT YOU'RE UP TO 

AMY E. NEVALA    P-I REPORTER 
1,529 words
3 April 2000
Seattle Post-Intelligencer
SEPI
English
© 2000 Hearst Communications Inc., Hearst Newspapers Division.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.  All rights reserved.  

It's been used to catch a Connecticut embezzler and an Eastern Washington electronic solitaire whiz playing on company time. An Oregon law firm installed it to snag employees planning vacations at work, and a Virginia consulting company fired a man after watching him spend days e-mailing friends. 

"Employers use this to find out what's happening in their business," said Richard Eaton, the Kennewick-based developer of Investigator, a software sleuth that nets employees who use their computers to slack off or sneak around - and more - on company time. 

Stealthy software programs like Eaton's enable employers to watch every tap of the their employees' keyboard - including deletions never stored or used in the final version. 

Memos typed, e-mail sent, proposals drafted and Web sites visited - all can be viewed by bosses without the employees' knowledge. 

Investigator software users pooh-pooh their Orwellian powers and lavish praise on a program they say tightens security and helps eliminate workplace slouches and cheaters. 

But privacy advocates worry about the fuzzy laws still surrounding the workplace computer. 

"Employees often think they have privacy rights, when in fact they have very little," said Jeff Mathias, an Iowa attorney and employment law producer with the Seattle-based Prairielaw.com, a legal issues Web site. 

No federal laws specifically address the issue, and in court cases regarding workplace computer privacy, employers more often emerge victorious, Mathias said. 

Last year, former Microsoft employee Bill McLaren Jr. argued in a Texas court that Microsoft invaded his privacy by reading his e-mail stored in a "personal folders" application on his office computer. 

The courts ruled for Microsoft. 

"The argument is that since the computer belongs to the company, they have a right to view everything on it," Mathias said. 

Computer monitoring is completely legal, said Eaton, who describes his $99 Investigator software as "a security audit trail. It's there in case there is trouble." 

He has sold more than 6,500 licenses worldwide to corporations, government agencies, businesses and private individuals since he developed the program in 1993. 

Daily sales jumped from five licenses to 20 this month after the Wall Street Journal included Investigator in a story. 

Customers include Exxon Mobil Corp., Delta Air Lines, Lockheed Martin Corp. and Ernst &Young LLP. Government users include the U.S. State Department, the Navy and the Department of Veterans Affairs. 

Competing computer-monitoring software Silent Watch, which allows stealth surveillance of 50 computers from a central PC, has enjoyed similar success, said Roy Young, vice president for sales and marketing of Adavi Inc. in Maryland. 

"In the last month our sales increased 53 percent," he said. 

Dozens of similar programs, including pcAnywhere, Desktop Surveillance, RealSecure and CyberCop can be purchased from software companies or downloaded from the Internet. 

"There's definitely a demand," Eaton said. 

More than two-thirds of U.S. companies engage in electronic surveillance of their employees, according to a 1999 American Management Association survey. That includes companies which watch Internet and e-mail, monitor telephone calls and use video surveillance. 

Banking, brokerage, insurance and real estate industries lead among those who monitor, the survey said. Performance review and legal compliance topped the list of reasons for employee monitoring. 

Nabbing cyberslackers, e-mail-happy employees and computer game enthusiasts are others. 

In Orondo, Wash., John Auvil installed Investigator after workers at his fruit company habitually shrugged at the "no gaming on company time" policy. 

"Thirty minutes after we installed it, boom, we caught someone playing solitaire," said Auvil, the company's network administrator. 

The guilty employee, a man killing time while defrosting company refrigerators, received a verbal reprimand but still has his job. 

The Washington Privacy Act, which prohibits recording private communications by phone, radio, telegraph or other device without the consent of all parties, does not apply to e-mail and online chats, according to Spokane County Superior Court. 

In January, the judge in a Spokane case - involving a man trapped in a sting operation while seeking sex with minors he met online - ruled that Washington's privacy law does not apply to computer communications. 

The words of the statute do not specifically mention computers as a covered device, the judge concluded. 

Other states have had little success passing workplace computer privacy laws. 

In October, California's governor vetoed a bill that would have required employers to notify workers when monitoring e-mail traffic and computer files. 

"Laws like this are seen as anti-business and anti-industry," said Beth Givens, director of the Privacy Rights Clearinghouse in San Diego. 

The American Management Association survey found that 84 percent of companies inform their employees of surveillance policies through bulletin board postings or during hiring orientations. 

Eaton said he added a warning default statement commonly used on government computers to his Investigator software. 

The statement is visible at the discretion of the installer during the log-in sequence. 

"Individuals using this computer system without, or in excess of their authority, are subject to having all of their activities on the system monitored and recorded by system personnel," it reads in part. 

Lewis Maltby, president of the non-profit National Workrights Institute in New Jersey, argues companies could go a step further than simply warning their employees that they are being watched. 

He suggests that companies track the time people spend on the Web, rather than spying on every Web site they visit. 

And instead of rummaging through every computer file, Maltby said companies should specifically target the file in question. 

"Sure, employers have a right to know if their employees are doing illegal things. But if your boss wants to read your personal e-mail for fun, he can do it," Maltby said. "And that's just not right." 

Investigator is nearly impossible for the user to detect and even harder to kill from the system. 

"Fantastic," said a network administrator at a Portland, Ore., law firm after Investigator caught one of his employees building personal home pages on company time and another scouring vacation sites and buying books online. 

A Connecticut real estate manager last month used Investigator to catch an employee siphoning money from his firm to her personal bank account via a company computer. 

And in Virginia, Doug Dobrynski recorded two employees at his government consulting business who spent their days instant- messaging friends. 

"They spent entire days just goofing off. We're talking zero productivity," said Dobrynski, the company's director of management information systems. 

The company fired one employee and the other left voluntarily. 

Eaton said 90 percent of his Investigator licenses sell to business and industry. Private individuals, from suspicious spouses to parents of cybersavvy teenagers, make up the other 10 percent. 

Miki Compson, a Maryland mother of four daughters, programmed Investigator to send daily reports of her teenagers' online discussions to her laptop computer while she vacationed in Australia and Japan. 

Compson said she worried about the strangers her children met in chat rooms. 

"You can trust your children to an extent, but you have to keep their safety in mind," she said. 

Eaton said he created Investigator's first version as a help system to track tangles encountered by his software system testers. 

By seeing each keystroke, Eaton eliminated the problem-causing guessing game. 

"When glitches happened we had no way of tracing that. We couldn't see what caused the software to crash," Eaton said. 

NASA has used Investigator for similar purposes, Eaton said. The program allowed its scientists in one state to witness every detail of computer work happening thousands of miles away, saving time and money flying personnel across the country to monitor work. 

While Investigator and programs like it have ruffled some feathers, "they are neither good nor bad, they're just tools," said Bill Machrone, vice president of technology for Ziff-Davis, a New York computer magazine publishing house. 

Software monitoring programs are like a hammer, he said. "You can build a house with a hammer, or you can kill somebody with it." 

P-I reporter Amy E. Nevala can be reached at amynevala@seattle- pi.com and 206-448-8132. 

INVISIBLE SURVEILLANCE 

Alert to employees who abuse workplace computer privileges, some companies have begun using surveillance software like Investigator, which covertly records and saves every keystroke and sends the data to employers. 

How it works: An employee, Jane, composes an e-mail to John Doe that she thinks won't be seen by her employer because she plans on sending it using a private e-mail account(i.e. Hotmail, or AOL). 

She spends three minutes writing the note, makes several changes to the wording and sends it off. 

What Investigator captures 

Investigator intercepts all words, even those deleted in the final text and compiles a report of it and any other typed proposals, memos and Web dsites visited. Investigator then arranges the documents by time, date and author. 

The program operates in stealth mode or can be programmed to warn computer users they are under surveillnce.  

Drawings;  Caption: P-I: Invisible surveillance 

Document sepi000020010813dw43005k1


 Will the Economic Good Times Run Out of Gas? 

 David Simons 
1,302 words
1 April 2000
BusinessWest
BUSW
15
Volume 16, Issue 12; ISSN: 1049-9822
English
 Copyright (c) 2000 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved. Copyright BusinessWest Apr 01, 2000 

 On a balmy March afternoon in the nation's capital, a posse of owner-operator truckers eased their cabs down Constitution Avenue en route to a major demonstration against the skyrocketing cost of diesel fuel. Included in the massive cortege were several representatives from the New England states, where gas prices have been among the highest in the nation. 

 At issue, among other things, is President Clinton's uneasiness about releasing fuel reserves, a measure that truckers say would help take some of the pressure off their ballooning road expenses. 

 "A lot of guys are going out of business and having trouble putting food on the table," said Tom Pokrywka, president of the National Owner-Operators Trucking Association. "We've got to see some action by April, or there's going to be a lot more people who are forced to just shut down." 

 Though the weekly surge at the gas pumps is a palpable annoyance for most of us, to owner-operators like Elaine, who did not want her last name used, they can be catastrophic. An area trucker who made the 400-mile trek to D.C. to take part in the protest, Elaine says the current situation poses a major threat to her way of life. 

 "Fuel increases have cost us $75 more per fill-up," she says. "We're filling twice a week at $150, over the course of a year, running 50 weeks, that's $7,500. Run more, and it costs more." 

 In an effort to get through the current crisis, drivers are taking every available step to whittle away at the expense sheet, including keeping tire pressure topped off, reducing idle time, even avoiding headwinds when possible. Keeping profit margins stable also means putting normal maintenance items on the back-burner." The trucks aren't getting washed, and they aren't doing the repairs they normally would," remarks another trucker. "Drivers are staying out longer, unable to go home because the money that fixed the truck and took them home is now in the fuel tank." 

 The reversal of fortune for the trucking industry has been painfully swift. One year ago this month, the national average price for a gallon of diesel was just 96 cents, nine cents higher in the Northeast. By the end of last month, those figures had ballooned to $1.48 and $1.55 respectively, with some regions reporting in excess of $2 per gallon. 

 But the pain is not limited to the independent trucking industry. Effective April 1, Federal Express said that it will add an additional point to its current 3% fuel surcharge on most domestic and international services, and is boosting its fuel surcharge to $0.15 per kilo on international airport-to-airport and express freight shipments as well. 

 Meanwhile, the Air Transport Association (ATA) issued a fuel-price forecast last month which showed that the U.S. airline industry is also reeling from the effects of the price hike, with Y2K fuel costs projected to  come in 40% higher than last year. In the first quarter alone, aviation-fuel prices soared to a whopping 77 cents per gallon - an increase of 75% over the same period a year ago. 

 "Rising oil prices are hitting many industries hard and airlines are no exception," remarked ATA chief economist David Swierenga, whose warning of increased fare costs has already become reality at a number of major airlines. Swierenga says the increase, though unfortunate, means a huge difference in an industry dictated by razor-thin margins. "The difference of one or two passengers per flight can spell the difference between profit and loss," he said. "When we see fuel costs going up almost as much as the previous year's net profit for the entire industry, we are extremely worried." 

 And according to a consensus of oil analysts, the worst is far from over. 

 Oily Warning System 

 The contrast between the haves and have-nots couldn't have been more stark last month, when the government issued its latest economic report just as the sound of Mack engines came roaring to a stop outside of Capitol Hill. The second-quarter projection - one of the most sanguine in history calls for robust growth in nearly all areas of the economy, with construction and technology leading the way. 

 Despite the flag-waving scenario, some regional experts see the potential for trouble not too far down the road. Elaine Shapiro, a Massachusetts-based travel industry analyst, says the current turbulence in the commercial-transport sector may increase, given the misperception that frequent travelers will pay anything - including higher fare costs - because of historically high consumer confidence. Shapiro points to the rash of cancellations during last December's much-hyped millennium celebrations as one recent example. 

 "That was the first tip-off - when many of these New Year's packagers took a bath," observers Shapiro. "Because of this powerful economy, there's the belief that people have endless reserves. But the fact is, people are not going to just continue to shell out endless money as the prices go up." 

 In addition to the potential havoc that increased ground and air-freight costs could place on the local economy, Shapiro believes that the hotel and travel industry may experience a delayed reaction to the current crisis, the effects of which may arrive just in time for summer vacation. 

 "It's an across-the-board hit for the industry," says Shapiro. "Though they say they can't afford it, airlines will have to keep their costs contained - or else people just won't make that trip they've been planning. And that carries over into tour operators and cruise lines as well." 

 Meanwhile, over at the Hampshire Hospitality Group, Curt Shumway, who oversees operations for the Inn at Northampton and Hadley's Howard Johnson's Motor Lodge, remains cautiously optimistic. 

 "We are watching it, but we don't have huge concerns at this point," he said. "If we see that the prices are retreating or are expected to do so based on global activities, I don't think it should present a measurable impact." Still, Shumway is prepared to take evasive action in the event of a prolonged fuel crunch, perhaps even cutting into the construction starts currently on the table, which include a proposed complex to be built adjacent to the Inn at Northampton. 

 "If prices continue to rise and there is no end in sight, it will obviously raise our level of concern and require some attention," says Shumway. "Personally, I think we'll be okay." 

 Tanks for the Memories 

 As travelers re-assess their vacation plans and small businesses deal with the trickle-down effect of increased delivery costs, those in the trucking industry continue to play upon the sympathies of lawmakers, some of whom are only more than wilting to put on a good show in this high-profile election year. 

 But according to trucking industry spokesman Louis Hebner, this isn't charity - it's an obligation. 

 "It's time for the government to step in," says Hebner. "Isn't this one of the reasons for having a government? Here's what they should do. First, drop all fuel taxes until the per-barrel prices drop to acceptable levels. Second, open up the pipeline to the reserves. And third, have some closed-room talks with the OPEC ministers. And maybe take some WWF wrestlers into the room with them." 

 All sarcasm aside, truckers, and everyone else impacted by the soaring fuel prices, don't want nature - or the natural forces of supply and demand - to run their course. 

 The economy is still running like a finely tuned Mercedes, and they don't want, to see it run out of gas. 

Document busw000020010804dw410000f

Search Summary

 Text((“profit*” same “warning*”) or ("disappoint*" same "result*") or ("decreas*" same "profit*") or ("compan*" same "downturn*") or ("unexpect*" same "loss*"))   Date04/01/2000 to 04/30/2000   SourceAll Sources   AuthorAll Authors   CompanyAll Companies   Subject Not Corporate/Industrial News   IndustryAll Industries   RegionUnited States   LanguageEnglish   Results Found51   Timestamp28 March 2018 18:00  
 Page 161 of 161     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

