 
•	  World Watch 
•	  WRAP: JC Penney Posts Lower August Sales, Repeats Warning 
•	  IN THE MONEY 
•	  Michelin Will Increase Output Fivefold to Help Fill Tire Void --- Benefit to Company Is Expected to Be Small 
•	  This Regional Fund Is Confident It Has Enough Diversity to Succeed 
•	  Bridgestone Boosts Tire Production in Japan to Support Recall 
•	 AT&T  Profit Warning  Focuses Attention on Excite At Home
•	  Whirlpool Sees 3rd Quarter, 4th Quarter Hurt By Circuit City Decision 
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	  Late-day Nortel slide undermines Bay St. but U.S. indexes rise Only four of TSE subindexes close higher; tech, financial stocks help boost...
•	  Internet hoax wipes US$2.5-billion off stock: Emulex recovers, but Nasdaq won't cancel trades 
•	  Bond investors mind the gap - in credit ratings. 
•	  TALES OF THE TAPE: Mergers May Sweep Household Goods  Group 
•	  Forestry, tech stocks help Bay St. bounce back into the black IBM, HP, GM pull Dow out of early slide; Nasdaq also gains but S&P 500 edges...
•	 US Slowdown To Punch Hole In Builders
•	  IN BRIEF 
•	  Caltex Australia 1H Net A$41.1 Million 
•	  NYSE Update 
•	 J&J Snack Foods Issues 4th-Quarter, Fiscal-Year  Profit Warning
•	  Business Brief -- LUBY'S INC.: Fourth-Quarter Net Income Will Be Below Expectations 
•	  Software Firm Mercator Restates Results; New Finance Chief Quits 
•	  Michelin Shares Up On Hopes of Snatching US Pole Position 
•	  Archway museum spans busy transcontinental highway In central Nebraska, a $60 million 'fort' 
•	  UAL Further Lowers Quarterly Profit Estimate 
•	 Tech Wreck 2: the sequel
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	 United issues second  profit warning  Weather, labour woes force airline to lower third-quarter expectations
•	  Construction-Equipment Maker CMI Posts 2nd Quarter Loss 
•	  Tire Prices Seen Staying Steady Despite Firestone Recall 
•	  WRAP: UAL Lowers Profit View Amid Bookings Decline 
•	  Tire Makers Deal With Recall Aftermath >F GT J.BDT 
•	 Deere  Profit  Surges, but Firm's  Warning  About Farm Recession Sends Stock Down
•	  Discount Retailer Ross Stores' 2nd Quarter Profit Fell 7% 
•	  Cypress Semi Sees Strong Sales To Motorola In 3rd Quarter,  4th Quarter 
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	  J. C. Penney Reports 90% Plunge in Profits 
•	 Worthington Issues  Profit Warning , Plans to Buy Pennsylvania Tech Units
•	  Philippines Alaska Milk 2nd Quarter Net PHP129.6 Million Vs PHP96.2 Million 
•	  Philippines Alaska Milk 2nd Quarter Net PHP129.6 Million Vs PHP96.2 Million 
•	  Bids Due, Battle Looms For Wells Deal Castoffs 
•	  UAL Flight Cutbacks May Lower Revenue as Much as $150 Million 
•	  TSE robbed of early gains as techs fall Nasdaq drops on profit concerns but food, drink stocks boost Dow 
•	 Gap Issues Another  Profit Warning ; Kmart Posts Wider Loss
•	 Nova's 2nd-Quarter Core Earnings Miss Estimate, Issues  Profit Warning
•	 Seeking Respect, Alcatel Aims to Conquer U.S. 
•	  Lucent Service Provider Executive Resigns 
•	 VERIZON ISSUES  PROFIT WARNING
•	  Nasdaq 0.13 percent higher, Dow down 0.65 percent 
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	 Worker productivity up again 
•	 Phone giant Verizon issues  profit warning  Poor forecast, labour strife clobber share price
•	  Sierra Pacific plans power hike 
•	  Lucent Seeks Operating Chief; Russo Resigns Service Provider CEO Post 
•	  Dial, Looking To Clean Up Its Act, Reduces Outlook Again 
•	  Hasbro Inc. President, Operating Chief Herb Baum Resigns 
•	 Trading to be investigated
•	  Congressmen Request Probe of Allegations About CME Trading 
•	  Business Highlights 
•	 ALBERTO BECOMES SEASON'S 1ST HURRICANE
•	  Opportunity for long-term investors. 
•	  NATIONAL ROUNDUP 
•	  Congressmen seek investigation of Merc accounting procedures 
•	  Nasdaq rallies after early dip. 
•	  Nation & World 
•	  Wachovia Buys Ammo for Affluent Market 
•	  Wall Street Skeptical Over P&G's Optimistic FY01 Outlook 



 International 
 World Watch 

 Compiled by David I. Oyama 
1,624 words
31 August 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
A12
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 THE AMERICAS 

 Pesos Gains on Talk 

 Of Mexico's Clearing 

 $3.2 Billion in Debt 

 The Mexican peso strengthened sharply on expectations the country will pay off its debt with the International Monetary Fund of about $3.2 billion this week. The Finance Ministry was expected to close the books ahead of schedule on two lending packages from 1995 and 1999. In Mexico City spot-dollar markets, the peso was quoted by major bank Banamex as closing at a midrate of 9.1900 to the dollar, stronger than 9.2220 Tuesday. Mexican stocks also rallied 3.82%. Mexico's finance minister said in July that President Ernesto Zedillo's government planned to liquidate the IMF debt before leaving office Dec. 1. President-elect Vicente Fox, of the opposition National Action Party, will inherit an economy that grew 7.8% year to year in the first half. 

 Mr. Zedillo is slated to deliver his last state-of-the-nation address tomorrow. "This is a final medal around his neck," a local currency trader said of the expected IMF debt clearance. The government in July also put together a $26.5 billion credit package from international organizations. 

 Canadian Operating Profits Rise Again 

 Canadian corporate operating profits rose 1.7% in the second quarter from the prior quarter and were up 22% from a year before, Statistics Canada said. The advance, the seventh consecutive increase in quarterly profits, was led by gains in the transportation-services, automotive and oil and natural-gas extraction sectors. Operating profits rose 5% from the previous quarter at nonfinancial corporations, but fell 5.6% for financial companies. Overall, Canadian corporate operating profits totaled a seasonally adjusted 51.9 billion Canadian dollars (US$34.9 billion), up from C$51.1 billion in the first quarter and from C$42.7 billion a year earlier. Operating revenues rose 0.3% from the first quarter to C$508.2 billion, and were up 7.3% from a year before. Corporate earnings fell 6.7% to C$32.1 billion, but were up 24% from C$25.9 billion a year earlier. 

 Codelco, Noranda Seek Rio Algom Data 

 State-owned copper miner Corp. Nacional del Cobre de Chile, or Codelco, and Canada's Noranda will decide within 30 to 45 days whether to increase their $1.6 billion bid for Canadian miner Rio Algom. Codelco and Noranda asked Rio Algom for information to carry out a due diligence review, and expect a response in two to three days, a Codelco executive said. If Rio Algom declines to deliver the information, Codelco and Noranda won't increase their bid, he said. Noranda and Codelco's bid last week was later trumped by a $2 billion bid from Britain's Billiton. Rio Algom's board agreed to accept Billiton's cash offer of 27 Canadian dollars a share. 

 Metalclad of U.S. Wins Nafta Judgment 

 U.S. hazardous-waste management concern Metalclad won a $16.7 million judgment from the North American Free Trade Agreement Tribunal, which ruled Mexico failed to enforce Nafta regulations protecting the company's investment. Metalclad had sought damages of $90 million in 1997, and was the first U.S. company to attempt to settle a dispute with Mexico under Nafta's arbitration process. Metalclad alleged San Luis Potosi state had effectively expropriated its hazardous-waste landfill site. 

 BRIEFLY: 

 -- Carlos Cabal Peniche, a former banker at the heart of one of Mexico's most spectacular financial scandals, lost an appeal in his fight to avoid extradition from Australia. He and his brother-in-law, Marco Pasini, can appeal a judge's ruling to the full, three-judge federal court. 

 -- A Canadian competition tribunal approved Superior Propane's 175 million Canadian dollar (US$117.8 million) takeover of ICG Propane, which will create a dominant propane-distribution firm in Canada. 

 -- Air Canada widened its dominance of the country's skies, saying it will keep Canadian Regional Airlines, acquired in its takeover of Canadian Airlines. No buyer for the feeder airline emerged during a federally imposed 60-day search for offers. 

 -- Grupo EDC, the Venezuelan unit of U.S. power company AES, said it would sell two regional power companies in Colombia to Spain's Union Electrica Fenosa for $235 million. Fenosa also agreed to buy Genev-apca, a Venezuelan power supplier to refineries, from EDC for a price to be agreed. 

 -- AGF Management agreed to acquire fellow Canadian investment manager Global Strategy Holdings for 438 million Canadian dollars (US$294.8 million), plus a further payment of as much as C$13 million. 

 --- 

 EUROPE/AFRICA 

 Southern May Be Open to Veag Proposal 

 With sparks flying over the control of east German power company Vereinigte Energiewerke, or Veag, there is increasing support for a proposal to build an industry consortium to take control of the company. Southern Co., the U.S. utility with a toehold in Germany, is vying with Swedish state-owned power concern Vattenfall and its German partner for control of eastern Germany's dominant power supplier. More than 80% of Veag shares are up for sale. Veag itself favors a joint bid by the two groups to give it a stronger backing in Europe's increasingly competitive and integrated electricity industry. Now, Southern has made a conciliatory gesture in support of Veag's proposal. Veag is controlled by Germany's RWE and E.ON, but the country's antitrust watchdog has ordered them to relinquish their stakes. 

 Russian Official Explains Oil-Export Caps 

 Russia's new ceilings on exports of oil products are necessary but temporary measures, its deputy prime minister, Viktor Khristenko, told the Moscow representatives of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank. The meeting came days after the IMF's representative wrote to Mr. Khristenko to warn that export ceilings would derail a new IMF loan program for Russia. The export caps stem from obligatory deliveries of diesel and fuel oil to domestic customers according to a schedule that will be set by the government for the next two months. A Russian spokesman said Mr. Khristenko had "explained why the Russian Federation can't use solely market economics for regulating the fuel and energy sector." The IMF and World Bank representatives weren't available to comment. IMF officials are scheduled to visit Moscow next month to begin talks on a new loan program for Russia, one of the IMF's biggest clients, with about $12 billion in debt. 

 KPN Posts Loss, Issues Profit Warning

 Dutch telecommunications firm KPN said it posted a first-half loss of 19 million euros ($17 million), compared with profit of 416 million euros a year earlier, because of higher goodwill and financing expenses related to the acquisition of German mobile operator E-Plus. KPN also warned full-year earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization will fall short of the 3.6 billion euros previously forecast. Revenue rose 30% to 5.2 billion euros. 

 BRIEFLY: 

 -- Poland's central bank said it raised interest rates by 1.5 percentage points, increasing the benchmark 28-day intervention rate to 19% from 17.5%. The discount rate was lifted to 21.5%, from 20%, and the Lombard rate was raised to 23%, from 21.5%. Its monetary-policy council raised interest rates by 4.5 percentage points between September 1999 and February 2000. 

 -- South Africa's stock exchange unveiled a long-awaited revamp of its listing rules, in a further step to bring the market in line with global corporate-governance and transparency standards. 

 --- 

 ASIA/PACIFIC 

 Acer Profit Is Boosted by One-Time Gains 

 Taiwan computer maker Acer said first-half profit more than doubled to 5.67 billion New Taiwan dollars (US$182.7 million), but much of the gain came from nonoperating income, mainly from the sale of stocks in its affiliates. Acer didn't say how much it earned from the stock sale. Sales fell 17% to NT$55.46 billion (US$1.79 billion) because of a decline in computer sales. But Acer said profit margins improved after a shift in its focus to higher-margin notebook computers. Wallace Su, an analyst with MasterLink Securities in Taiwan, said if Acer successfully reaches its 2000 profit target of NT$12 billion, "nearly 70% of that" would come from nonoperating income, chiefly stock sales. 

 Foreign Firms Take New China Life Stake 

 Five foreign institutions have agreed to buy a 24.9% stake in New China Life Insurance, the Chinese company said. It is the first Chinese insurer to receive foreign direct investment, the official Xinhua news agency said. A New China Life spokesman said Zurich Financial Services Group of Switzerland, Meiji Life Insurance of Japan and the International Finance Corp., the World Bank's private-sector investment arm, are among the five foreign investors. He declined to identify the two other companies. Meiji Life said in Tokyo that it will take a 10% stake in the insurer. New China Life plans to sell 199.2 million shares to the foreign partners, and will increase its capital to 1.2 billion yuan ($145 million) from 600.8 million yuan currently in two steps, the Xinhua report said. 

 BRIEFLY: 

 -- Australia's current-account deficit narrowed in the second quarter to a seasonally adjusted 7.87 billion Australian dollars (US$4.49 billion), from a revised A$7.91 billion deficit for the prior quarter. Economists had expected a deficit of A$8.3 billion for the second quarter. 

 -- The Philippine Court of Appeals upheld the dismissal of a 25.27 billion peso ($560.6 million) tax-evasion case filed against magnate Lucio Tan and his associates. But the government may appeal the decision to the country's Supreme Court. 

Document j000000020010807dw8v00off




 WRAP: JC Penney Posts Lower August Sales, Repeats Warning 

590 words
31 August 2000
17:06
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   WSJ.com News Roundup



PLANO, Texas -(Dow Jones)- J.C. Penney Co. (JCP) reported
lower-than-expected August sales and higher marketing expenses, and
reiterated that third-quarter earnings could miss analysts'
expectations.


 Separately, Target Corp. (TGT) said its same-store sales in August rose a scant 2.5%, prompting the company to say it expects a decline in third-quarter profit. 

 For the four weeks ended Aug. 26, same-store sales at Penney's department stores fell 4.5%, while total department-store sales for August slipped 5.4% to $1.13 billion. Total company sales for the month fell 0.5% to $2.46 billion from $2.47 billion a year earlier. 

 Catalog sales increased 0.4%, while sales at online division jcpenney.com rose to $18 million from $4 million a year earlier. For the year through August, the online unit has rung up $112 million in sales, compared with $19 million in 1999. 

 Total drugstore sales in August increased 5.3% to $965 million. Same-store sales rose 10.1%, led by a 15.5% increase in pharmacy sales. However, margins remained depressed, J.C. Penney said. Two weeks ago, when it released second-quarter earnings, the company warned that third-quarter results would be disappointing if sales didn't pick up. 

 Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial expect the retailer to earn 31 cents a share in the quarter. Before its warning, analysts were looking for a profit of 39 cents a share. In the year-earlier third quarter, the company reported earnings of $142 million, or 51 cents a share, on revenue of $7.98 billion. 

 For the second quarter, profit fell 41% to $23 million because of softer sales, a higher level of merchandise markdowns and charges for overhauling its buying process. Excluding items, Penney earned $11 million. The retailer said that, despite efforts to stock a better mix of more fashionable items on a timely basis, its department-store customers haven't gotten the message. 

 Vanessa Castagna, chief operating officer for department stores, merchandising and catalogs, said after the second-quarter report that Penney's buyers now meet weekly instead of quarterly to discuss fashion trends and make shipping adjustments. She also said a new national ad campaign launching in mid-September will stress brand-specific merchandise. 

 J.C. Penney operates approximately 1,100 JCPenney department stores in the U.S. and Mexico. Its Eckerd Drugstores business operates more than 2,600 drugstores. 


   Target Expects Weaker Third Quarter



Target said total sales for the four weeks ended Aug. 26 rose 7.5% to
$2.74 billion from $2.55 billion last year, while same-store sales
increased 2.5%.



The company said it remains 'confident' it can deliver
earnings-per-share growth of 15% over time but expects lower
double-digit growth in fiscal 2000. Target reported a 15% increase in
second-quarter earnings in mid-August but hinted at the time that it
might miss third-quarter expectations.



Target, Minneapolis, blamed the weaker outlook on higher store-opening
costs and a share-repurchase program. Analysts are expecting Target to
produce third-quarter earnings of 28 cents a share, up from 26 cents a
share a year earlier. Before the company's projection, analysts were
looking for earnings of 30 cents a share. The company expects
earnings-per-share growth to resume in the fourth quarter.
   For continuously updated news from The Wall Street
 Journal, see WSJ.com at http://wsj.com.


Document dj00000020010805dw8v03dv6


 Business 
 IN THE MONEY 

 Bill Tucker, Susan Lisovicz 
6,422 words
31 August 2000
16:00
CNNfn: In The Money
ITHM
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 BILL TUCKER, CNNfn ANCHOR, IN THE MONEY:  The Gap and J.C. Penney sales wilt in August.  We`ll take a look at the latest numbers and tell you about one of the only retailing bright spots of the year - discounters.  One of them, Dollar General, is our stock of the day. 

 SUSAN LISOVICZ, CNNfn ANCHOR, IN THE MONEY:  The firestorm over Firestone tires continues to burn Ford.  Now, the government wants more information about its recall effort.  We look at the fall out. 

 TUCKER:  And it`s gone from gas producer to online seller and it`s moving into the telecommunications business.  We`ll talk to one of the architects behind the transformation of Enron. 

 MODERATOR:  From CNNfn, this is IN THE MONEY with Bill Tucker and Terry Keenan. 

 TUCKER:  Oh, hey, caught me.  Good morning, everybody, as we get dressed for the show.  Welcome to IN THE MONEY.  I`m Bill Tucker. 

 LISOVICZ:  Speak for yourself.  And good morning ... 

 TUCKER:  I know you came ready for the party. 

 LISOVICZ:  ... from me as well.  I`m Susan Lisovicz.  Investors and analysts are piling out of retail stocks this morning. 

 TUCKER:  Oh, yeah.  And we`re going to be putting the retailers in the spotlight during the next hour.  And we`re also going to be taking a look at mid-cap stocks as well. 

 LISOVICZ:  A hot performer.  Who would`ve thunk?  While the Dow is down year to date, the S&P mid-cap stocks much more investor friendly with positive returns. 

 TUCKER:  Yeah, but there is one large cap with a 52 week return of better than 100 percent, and we`re going to give it a little bit of attention later in the program. 

 Meanwhile, let`s turn our attention to the markets, Susan. 

 LISOVICZ:  We`ve got a triple digit rally going on there at the Dow Industrials.  As you can see, up 156 points at 11,259.  That`s a percentage gain of about 1 1/2 percent. 

 TUCKER:  J.P. Morgan`s a big one there.  We probably should check out on that one.  Look at that, that stock is up 10 1/8 right now, Susan.  J.P. Morgan hot. 

 LISOVICZ:  Hewlett Packard also doing well, up better than 2, as is Big Blue and J&J.  So, solid performers all around.  But a different story for retail stocks. 

 Let`s head down to the New York Stock Exchange where Jennifer Westhoven is standing by.  Good morning, Jennifer. 

 JENNIFER WESTHOVEN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT:  Good morning.  Well, we`ve definitely got retailers on the downside.  J.C. Penney and Gap really leading that.  We`ll have details on those coming up, but let`s look at some of the other retailer stocks that are also getting hit today. 

 We`re going to start with Target.  This is also a discount department store.  It is off. The company says that same store sales is off about 4. Rose about 2 1/2 percent in August.  That`s a rise but it wasn`t enough for Wall Street.  And Target also saying it didn`t meet its own expectations and they said they are going to have a problem with their third quarter earnings, that they are actually likely to decline instead of moving forward.  Analysts had been expecting 28 cents a share for the quarter compared to 26 in the year ago.  So, if they expect them to decline for the third quarter, then you`re probably going to see about a three-cent shortfall there. 

 Another stock on the downside is Best Buy.  This is an electronics retailer.  The company said its same store sales rose 5.1 percent for the second quarter.  That wasn`t enough for Wall Street though. The stock down about 8 points.  Best Buy had actually said the sales growth was in line with its own expectations, but you can see a lot of disappointment there. We also have analysts talking lately about how companies that sell what they call hard lines, meaning hard appliances, not soft lines, like clothing, are more susceptible to the slowdown in consumer spending than are those companies who sell clothing.  So, that may be another reason why you`re seeing that stock getting a bite taken out of it. 

 Another stock we`re looking at today is Abercrombie & Fitch.  They said their monthly same store sales were 11 percent - is what I see. That`s off 3 percent from last year`s 14 percent.  So, a little bit of a down day for them.  They`re off 3 7/8. 

 Overall, though, traders still talking about the fact that volumes are pretty thin.  They`re starting to say that Labor Day is being more anxiously awaited than Christmas because there is growing hope that we will get a rally after Labor Day and better volume and, perhaps, even a big breakout to the upside in some of the major indexes. 

 Back to you, guys. 

 TUCKER:  All right.  Thanks, Jennifer.  Jennifer Westhoven doing the New York Stock Exchange duty force today. 

 Let`s talk about these retailers.  J.C. Penney and Gap are in trouble this morning.  Greg Clarkin is here now with more on those stocks. Greg, good morning. 

 GREG CLARKIN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT:  Bill, Susan, good morning.  J.C. Penney and The Gap under a lot of pressure as we`ve seen there with the specific stock quotes. 

 Let`s start with J.C. Penney.  This is a announcement that came out just a few minutes before the open of trading this morning in New York. And in the company`s press release accompanying their same store sales figures for the month of August, they say now August below planned sales and higher than expected promotional activity for the department stores and catalogue business, coupled with continuing depressed margins for the drug store business could adversely affect current estimates for the third quarter earnings.  That translates into a profit warning, I believe, doesn`t it. 

 OK, that`s a profit warning. 

 TUCKER:  (INAUDIBLE) 

 CLARKIN:  Exactly. 

 LISOVICZ:  Pretty clear. 

 CLARKIN:  Last (ph)  to the press release, that`s a profit warning. So, J. C. Penney shares being hammered this morning, along with many of the other retailers. 

 Let`s take a look at that stock, if we can though, over the last 52 weeks. And you can see it`s been pretty much in one direction, for the most part down. 

 Now, moving onto The Gap, this is a stock that a lot of folks were really kind of on alert for on Wall Street.  The last six weeks or so, the troubles there have become apparent.  There was a lot of problems with the Old Navy business.  As a matter of fact, August same store sales at Old Navy were down 25 percent.  Now, overall, The Gap reporting a drop in August same store sales of 14 percent.  That roughly is double what analysts were expecting there.  They were expecting to see maybe a decrease in the 7 percent range.  Instead, they got 14 percent. And what we`re seeing this morning is a lot, as expected, of negative comments out of Wall Street, really nobody with any positive things to hang their hat on. 

 Let`s take a look at Deutsche Bank Alex Brown.  They say, "While we believe that The Gap is a very good company, even the best will need time to fix its problems.   And with all three brands, meaning The Gap stores, Banana Republic stores, Old Navy stores, having difficulty at the same time, we believe that the outlook for continued lackluster results is until next spring."  So, most folks at this point are not looking for any turnaround in the stock of Gap until next spring. 

 Let`s get that chart up there and we`ll give you an idea of where it is trading.  This is a stock that as recently as early April was trading at about $53 a share.  It is now trading around $21 or so.  And you can see the big drop there on the right side of your screen.  That is when the problems with Old Navy really became apparent. 

 And, Susan and Bill, this morning, again, just every research note we have seen just thoroughly negative on The Gap.  Not a lot of folks expecting a turnaround there until probably spring or so. 

 LISOVICZ:  You know what`s interesting though, Greg, I find that The Gap is so well known in the industry for its marketing, and they didn`t go to TV, and Mickey Drexler saying that that was a problem, it was a mistake. 

 CLARKIN:  In Merrill Lynch`s research note, the analyst there notes that as well.  He said lack of television advertising really hurt them. Seeing Back-To-School sales just incredibly sluggish, and that`s - it`s a missed opportunity.  It comes around once a year basically.  So, a lot of folks really disappointed with The Gap at this point. 

 LISOVICZ:  Could be a battle meant for retailers. 

 TUCKER:  Yeah, it could be.  Thanks, Greg. 

 CLARKIN:  Sure. 

 LISOVICZ:  OK.  Let`s bring on one of the analysts who is joining the growing list of those who downgraded Gap this morning, Jeffrey Clinefeld (ph) of US Bancorp Piper Jaffray joining us now from Minneapolis. Welcome, Jeff. 

 JEFFREY CLINEFELD, ANALYST, US BANCORP PIPER JAFFRAY:  Thank you. 

 LISOVICZ:  OK.  So, you have lowered your third quarter, fourth quarter fiscal 2001, fiscal 2002 earnings estimates, but you`ve maintained a buy on the stock.  Why? 

 CLINEFELD:  Yeah.  Well, actually - and we downgraded The Gap from a strong buy to a buy about three months ago.  And a couple of reasons we did that were slowing momentum in Old Navy, some product misses at Banana Republic and really some saturation concerns and some fashion concerns in The Gap. So, we had been somewhat cautious on this stock for the last few months. 

 We did not anticipate the negative 14 percent comps today, and that`s why we reduced our numbers.  But as a buy rating, this is a well-known stock. It trades at a premium multiple.  It has a great management team with a solid reputation.  We think there`s going to be an inflection point and we think there`s going to be some bargain hunters out to pick it up.  So, we`re maintaining a buy rating. 

 TUCKER:  What`s the problem here, Jeff?  I mean, is this just that teenagers are a fickle group of customers, or what? 

 CLINEFELD:  I don`t think so.  I think there`s a couple of things to look at here.  One, overall traffic in the mall, we don`t think, is down. And there are a number of bright spots actually in specialty retailing today. American Eagle, for one, was up 9 percent.  Abercrombie & Fitch was down 3, but that was essentially in line with our plan.  And they`re still improving month over month.  Limited, for example, with its Express division was up 15 percent.  So, we think it`s a matter of having the right product in the stores and, depending on how difficult their comps were last year, they have an opportunity to improve.  Gap just doesn`t have a fashion statement this year, we don`t believe.  Old Navy is struggling from going against difficult comps, but we don`t think overall spending has slowed that much during back-to-school. 

 LISOVICZ:  OK.  So, it`s the fashion state that may be just a seasonal thing.  What about the marketing strategy?  Here is a company that drove people to buy khakis on the strength of its advertising and it didn`t do any TV advertising for The Gap or for Old Navy.  Instead, did in-house promotions.  So, reduced profit margins.  What were they thinking? 

 CLINEFELD:  Well, I think it`s a good question.  I think there are going to be a lot of armchair quarterbacks out now second-guessing that move. But I think honestly, in anticipation of no marketing, a lot of people were skeptical.  And I think the way they were looking at, our guess is that they felt like there wasn`t a strong enough fashion statement to actually advertise.  It`s becoming increasingly difficult for them to beat their advertising campaigns year over year because they`ve been so successful in the past.  And I think they were counting on having in store traffic more of almost a viral marketing technique of giving away a gift card when you buy some of the product to keep people in the stores and they get them back for a repeat purchase.  But I think clearly, in hindsight, it was a mistake.  When you reach the national scale that The Gap has, similar to like a Victoria`s Secret with intimate brands, you need that national advertising to keep the people coming back. 

 TUCKER:  All right, Jeff.  Thank you.  Jeffrey Clinefeld of US Bancorp Piper Jaffray. 

 CLINEFELD:  Thank you. 

 LISOVICZ:  And we`ll take another look at retail stocks later in the program. We`ll focus on one of the few positive performers in the retail sector this year, discounters - deep discounters, that is.  One of the biggest is Dollar General, and we`re making it our stock of the day. Should we add this discounter to our portfolio?  Log your vote on CNNfn.com. 

 TUCKER:  All right, in the meantime, let`s get caught up on what`s happening with the Nasdaq.  The Nasdaq posted gains yesterday, even as the Dow fell 112.  They`re building on those once again today.  Charles Molineaux is following the action for us at the Nasdaq MarketSite.  Good morning, Charles.  Nice follow through here. 

 CHARLES MOLINEAUX, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT:  Good morning, Bill.  Yeah. Actually, a follow through and really a pick up in speed here.  We`ve got the Nasdaq now up by 68 points.  We were just a few points down from our session high.  Sitting here right now at 4,171.  We`ve gotten all the way up to 4,173.  So, we`re looking at a pretty good performance there on decent breadth in this market too. 

 But check out a couple of these names.  They`re not necessarily having such a great day.  ACLARA BioSciences, for one, is now down by $3, or 8 percent, at $39 a share.  It`s turning more of its stock loose on the market. ACLARA`s a biotech and it`s authorized an early release of its underwriter`s lockup restrictions on six million shares of its stock. That`s about 25 percent of the shares originally subject to the lockup restrictions.  More of it on the market, down it goes. 

 Pacific Sunwear is also off by $1, or 7 1/2 percent, at $13.75.  It`s seeing softening sales.  Pacific is a specialty retailer of casual clothes, shoes and accessories.  And its same store sales were down 2 1/2 percent in August.  Its vice president of product development, Gary Hunt, has resigned, and Credit Suisse First Boston has now downgraded Pacific from a buy to a hold.  And the market is downgrading it to the tune of 7 1/2 percent. 

 This is a much better story, Greater Bay Bancorp is now up by $5, or 9 percent, at $64.  It`s moving up onto a major index and hitting a new 52-week high as a result at $64 3/8.  Greater is a bank holding company and it`s moving up onto the S&P 400 mid-cap index.  Greater Bay is going to be replacing Mark Four Industries, which is being acquired by BC Partners. 

 The Nasdaq composite right now is still up by 67 points.  We`re hanging just a couple points below our session high, 4,171, on volume that at 622 million shares traded.  Was actually looking pretty vigorous earlier, but it seems to have slowed down to about what we come to expect about this time in the day, keeping in mind that we are still looking at that summer doldrums, at least in terms of volume, but certainly not in terms of what the Nasdaq composite price action`s doing. 

 Bill. 

 TUCKER:  All right.  But it`s a move higher, and we`ll take it. Charles Molineaux at the Nasdaq MarketSite. 

 LISOVICZ:  Now that we`ve talked about big cap techs, let`s talk about mid cap stocks.  Ahead, we`ll talk to fund manager, Arden Armstrong. 

 TUCKER:  Plus, the U.S. government wants to know more about Ford`s role in the Firestone recall.  We`ll go live to Detroit when IN THE MONEY continues. 

 COMMERCIAL 

 LISOVICZ:   A wakeup call for anyone without Labor Day weekend plans. You might think about heading to North Carolina.  Midway Airlines is offering a $9 - $9 - one way Labor Day between New York`s LaGuardia and Raleigh-Durham Airport.  That`s less than what you`d pay for a cab fare in Manhattan. The price is based on a roundtrip fare on tickets issued by midnight tonight for travel on Friday and Tuesday.  But you`re working on Labor Day, as am I. 

 TUCKER:  I know I am.  Tough.  I have a sister down in Charlotte.  And I`m going, you know, for $72 the whole ... 

 LISOVICZ:  Bring the whole family. 

 TUCKER:  It would cost more to get to the airport and park the car than take the plan down.  That is amazing, $9. Midway, huh?  All right. Now you know. 

 Federal regulators are pressing Ford for more information on its replacement of Firestone tires in overseas markets.  And another potential problem for Ford.  A California judge says he is prepared to order the company to recall nearly two million vehicles, saying the automaker mislead consumers about a possible design defect in the ignition.  Ford denies those charges.  It`s making a rough summer for stock, however, which is down 11 percent year to date, 17 percent lower from its mid-April high. 

 Detroit bureau chief, Ed Garston, has been keeping tabs on all the developments, and he joins us with the latest.  Ed, good morning. 

 ED GARSTON, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT:  Good morning to you, Bill. Executives at Ford and Firestone might want to grab a couple of those cheap fares and get out of town.  The situation just keeps getting worse for the companies. The federal government now says that more than the 62 deaths that have been attributed to the tires that are being recalled have been reported. They will announce how many of those deaths later this afternoon on the government Web site.  Also, at this hour, commission in Venezuela is announcing what action, if any, it plans to take against Ford and Firestone.  And all on top of that, a strike deadline looms at midnight tomorrow night Eastern Time at nine Firestone plants around the country, the same plants that have tried to crank replacement tires.  The workers there from the United Steel Workers have been working at the plants without a contract since March.  They say this is a pretty good time. We feel like we`ve got pretty good leverage here with the recall going on and all. They did announce the strike deadline 14 days ago, but that was within the time that the recall had been announced.  They say they are very willing to walk, and that would certainly cripple the replacement tire operation for Firestone.  So, the story just keeps getting wider and deeper and the troubles mount for both companies. 

 Bill. 

 TUCKER:  Yeah, it does indeed mount for both companies.  And it`s a unique and interesting story because neither company is related to the other company except through a customer relations arrangement or relationship. 

 And I`m wondering, first to my mind, this story has no precedent.  And you cover the auto certainly a lot longer than I have.  And second, are there any indications that there`s a meaningful rift beginning to, perhaps, understandably develop between Firestone and Ford? 

 GARSTON:  You`d have to think that privately there is.  We asked that question directly to Ford the other day, said, "Do you have any plans of dropping Firestone as an original equipment supplier?"  They said, "At this point, they had no plans to do that."  And when you talk about a relationship, it is, Bill, more than a relationship.  You have to think back to 1906 or Henry Ford and Harry Firestone were pals. And that`s how this whole relationship began.  And Firestone`s been supplying tires for Ford ever since then.  They put the tires on the first Model T, so there`s more than the usual type of business relationship at work here. I think they`ll try very hard to maintain that relationship, but, at some point, you have to make a pretty hard business decision. And I`m sure that`s what they`re doing on the 11th floor of Ford headquarters right now. 

 TUCKER:  Yeah.  And it doesn`t look like it`s going to get any cooler for Jacques Nasser.   I mean, he is not only under scrutiny for consumers but congress wants to hear from him as well, right? 

 GARSTON:  They would love to hear from him, but they finally said, "All right, we`re not going to subpoena you.  We will accept the vice president of safety engineering and also the head truck engineering executive." Jacques Nasser has begged off, saying he`s just too busy trying to manage the recall.  And, for now anyway, they`ve given up trying to put him on the hot seat. 

 TUCKER:  All right, Ed.  Thanks.  Ed Garston ... 

 GARSTON:  You bet. 

 TUCKER:  ... bureau chief in Detroit. 

 LISOVICZ:  And the world`s number two car parts maker is blaming the Firestone recall for a weaker than expected third quarter.  Late yesterday, Visteon reported that four production cuts caused by the Firestone recall could mean its own third quarter numbers will be 12 to 14 cents a share lower than forecast.  But Visteon says there`s a chance to recover some lost revenue later this year if Ford readjusts its production for the year. Visteon shares are down close to 14 percent. And the fallout continues. 

 TUCKER:  Continues and spreads as a matter of fact.  What are the highest paid jobs?  And how can you get them?  We have to ... 

 LISOVICZ:  I don`t know. 

 TUCKER:  That`s what we want to know.  Dan Roman will come along and give us a live report coming up. 

 LISOVICZ:  Plus, it has bucked the downward trend in the retail sector. Dollar General is our stock of the day.  We`ll be right back. 

 COMMERCIAL 

 TUCKER:  All right.  There you have it, folks, a live shot at the New York Stock Exchange.  We got the Dow up triple digits - 177 points - building. S&P within 10 points of a record high, by the way.  The Dow utilities at a record high even as we speak. 

 Let`s look at the Dow movers.  Take a look at number one there, J. P. Morgan. A big mover yesterday after the DLJ deal became official.  Up strongly again today, up another 13 7/8.  Susan, I think the street`s looking for something to happen. 

 LISOVICZ:  I think J.P. Morgan is fueling that triple digit rally. 

 TUCKER:  Yeah, I think so. 

 LISOVICZ:  Dollar General today reported its August sales at stores open at least 12 months were up 18 percent from a year ago.  In spite of its celebrated low prices, Dollar General has had to suffer through the summertime retail doldrums, just like the rest of the retail industry. But its stock is up 31 percent since the summer began.  Dollar General, our stock of the day. 

 "If you don`t know the Dollar General, chances are you`re not frugal, you live in the North, or you`re not from a small town.  Basically, this retailer built its reputation by offering prices even Wal-Mart can`t beat to customers in small towns throughout the South.  So far, Dollar General`s strategy has been sound.  Today, this Tennessee company has over 4,300 stores in 24 southern states.  Its typical host community has less than 25,000 people, and its merchandise - everything from cosmetics to housewares - is cheap.  How cheap?  Half the products that Dollar General sell for $1 or less.  And since going public over a decade ago, Dollar General has done nothing but grow, doubling in size in just five years. Its financials have been solid too.   Dollar General`s last three quarters have met or beaten the street`s estimates.  This year, the stock has been in flux, rising to a peak in April, dipping in the spring.  And despite the low in the retail sector, it`s rebounded again and approaching its 52 week high." 

 And here`s a look at how the stock`s been doing today.  Like a lot of retailers, it`s feeling a little bit of pressure, down about 1/2 a point at 20 15/16. 

 For more on Dollar General, let`s head to St. Louis with Azma (ph) Uzmani (ph), Edward Jones retail analyst.  Welcome. 

 AZMA UZMANI, ANALYST, EDWARD JONES:  Good morning. 

 LISOVICZ:  Is part of the interest and the profits that Dollar General has been seeing is this whole stigma that`s been removed from discounters in general?  I`ve noticed in the last five years that even people who are affluent like to brag about the big bargains they get. 

 UZMANI:  Well, it`s definitely true.  If you looked at the consumer today, the consumer today really is demanding value, which would explain why the actual number of households that shop at discount stores continue to trend upwards.  Also, the annual expenditures from household at a discount store continues to trend up, which would actually reflect the reason why Dollar General or discount retailers in general are seeing strong same store sales growth and strong top line growth. 

 LISOVICZ:  But, Azma, how does the company do it?  If half of the merchandise is priced around $1, which certainly beats Wal-Mart, Target, K-Mart, how can it get any margins at all? 

 UZMANI:  Well, this company, if you looked at the type of merchandise that they offer, it`s consumable basics, consumable basics that are in demand all in terms of - are in demand by the consumer.  These merchandise - the type of merchandise that they have in the stores is also - a good percentage is national brands.  But if you looked at their merchandise, 50 percent of their merchandise is national brands.  So, this company benefits from actually having recognizable brands at everyday low prices.  And their stores are very convenient also in terms of where they`re located in the neighborhood.  Consequently, the consumer not only provides in their stores but also they also provide the consumer with site convenience. So, this company is really focusing on two characteristics - value and convenience, who areas which the consumer has been demanding. 

 LISOVICZ:  OK.  Azma, quickly, is this company well positioned, then, for a consumer spending slowdown then? 

 UZMANI:  If you were to see a slowdown - an economic slowdown, given the fact that the majority of its merchandise is basic, we expect Dollar General to better weather a slowdown than, say, some other retailers. Consequently, we`re encouraging our investors to actually buy the stock. 

 In fact, we rate Dollar General as strong buy. 

 LISOVICZ:  OK. We`ll leave it at that.  Azma Uzmani, retail analyst, Edward Jones.  Thank you so much for joining us. 

 UZMANI:  Thank you. 

 LISOVICZ:  Now that you`ve heard everything about Dollar General, head down to the bottom of our CNNfn.com homepage and tell us whether the bargain retailer is also a good bargain for our portfolio. 

 You told us what you thought about Whirlpool, yesterday`s stock of the day. Only 34 percent of you thought we should add that stock to our portfolio. That means that Whirlpool shares get a red light in our IN THE MONEY indicator and we are not buying any for our portfolio, despite the fact Whirlpool`s pretty much close to its 52-week low. 

 TUCKER:  Yeah.  And as a matter of fact, it didn`t lose that much yesterday.  Ended up - in fact, I think it ended up dead even on the day yesterday.  But it is down another 9/16 in the market today. 

 Up next, it moved from an old economy company into something decidedly new economy.  It`s Enron.  We`ll talk about the changes under way with its chief operating officer. 

 LISOVICZ:  And David Haffenreffer has business news now.  Hey, David. 

 DAVID HAFFENREFFER, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: Hi, Susan. Well, Intel`s slapping a lawsuit on one of its competitors.  Cisco is making an acquisition today. And a look at the best, worst and highest paying jobs.  Any of them in the television industry? 

 IN THE MONEY will continue in just a moment. 

 COMMERCIAL 

 TUCKER:  Where does Enron (URL: http://.www.enron.com/) go from here? That`s a question for Jeff Skilling, Enron`s president  and chief operating officer. He joins us from Houston. Mr. Skilling, welcome to "In The Money". 

 JEFF SKILLING, CEO, ENRON: Thanks, Bill. Nice to see you.   We`ve done some wonderful things. 

 TUCKER:   It only gets better if you look at a 52-week bases. It`s up 103 percent. It doesn`t sound like we`re talking about a utility at all here. Where did someone come up that you own the right ways that it might be a good idea to put telecom wires down and it might be an interesting idea to jump on the deregulation bandwagon wholeheartedly and go into trading energy as well as transporting it. 

 SKILLING: Well, Bill, you know, we`ve been looking at these markets for a long time. About a decade ago we started to realize that there was a need to provide a whole new range of services in the energy markets and we`ve set up the ability to package large complex supplies of natural gas an electricity for our customers and that business really didn`t exist more than 10 years ago and it`s now a primary driver of our sales and earnings growth. In fact, our bandwidth business, our broadband business is very closely linked to that because we`re trying to create a real-time market for bandwidth so that people can get bandwidth when they need it. 

 TUCKER: You`re clearly not a company adverse to risk. I mean, we talk about the brilliance of these moves, but all of them carry great degree of risk. How did you get that kind of environment within a utility company? 

 SKILLING: Well, we have a lot of people here they that think about the new economy and what`s doing. We realize that the world`s changing and if we can`t get on with the adoption of new technology, new communications technology, new information technology, we`re not going to survive the next decade. So we got on it very quickly and we got on it very strong and so far it`s working out pretty well. 

 LISOVICZ:  I should say so. You`ve got some timing that worked to your favor wit deregulation with certainly higher energy prices. It`s intriguing what you`ve been blockbuster. A lot of consumers are getting video on demand these days. It`s not that unusual. What is it that you`re offering that`s different? 

 SKILLING: Actually. Most people don`t get video on demand. If you want to watch a movie, for example, it`s typically a broadcast from satellite so you have to watch the movie when they broadcast it, not when you want to watch it. If you want to get up in the middle of the movie and go get a Coke in the middle of the refridge, you can`t stop it, just continues to go on. We`ll create what is a virtual VCR. You can stop it, rewind it, fast forward it, you`ll watch it when you want to watch it and that`s a new product offering. 

 LISOVICZ: Where do you see that fitting in in terms of your overall revenue? 

 SKILLING: Well, it`s going to take a while to get enough high capacity pipes into the home. So a DSL spreads, as cable interfaces spread more and more people will be able to take advantage of this product. In the next two to three years it will become significant for Enron. And in the meantime, our energy business is doing just great. 

 TUCKER:  Among shareholders and Wall Street, you enjoy a reputation of being  a company that takes care of its shareholders. Are you spinning any tracking stocks off to follow the online energy services or broadband service divisions? 

 SKILLING: Well, Bill, what we`ve said to our shareholders is that if we get the value in our stock, in Enron`s stock, then everything`s fine. If for whatever reason we don`t get that value in Enron`s stock we`ll look at other alternatives to make sure our shareholders get the advantage of the business that we`re building, but right now we believe it`s pretty well-reflected in the stock. We think there`s a lot of upside in the broadband business. A lot of upside in the energy business and as long as that`s the case, we`ll stick with Enron. 

 TUCKER: All right. Jeff, thank you. Jeff Skilling, the president and chief operating officer of Enron. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 TUCKER:  In today`s "Mutual Fundamentals" segment, we  look at a mid-cap fund. Last year, the MAS Mid-Cap Growth Fund rose over 66 percent, while the S&P mid-cap index  gained 36 percent. The fund also had a 200percent turnover rate. 

 LISOVICZ:  Our next guest says that many  mid-cap stocks are growing so fast that they no longer fit  the mid-cap criteria, making  her constantly refresh the  fund`s portfolio. Arden Armstrong is portfolio manager of the MAS Mid-Cap  Growth Fund and joins us from  Philadelphia. Welcome. 

 ARDEN ARMSTRONG, MAS MID-CAP GROWTH FUND: Thanks. 

 LISOVICZ: So is part of the appeal of mid-caps that they`re cheaper than big caps and safer than small caps? 

 ARMSTRONG: Well, I think -- we think that mid-cap stocks are really attractive mainly because they grow faster than the large cap stocks and they do tend to be cheaper, but we really focus on the growth characteristics because we`re growth managers. 

 TUCKER:  Well, Arden, I started to laugh and I don`t mean to beat you up because I like you having you on as a guest, but I would expect the expense ratio would be off a lot. How do you manage expense side of your form? 

 ARMSTRONG: Our expense ratio in the mid-cap growth fund is only 61 basis points which I think is very low compared to competitors and real impact of turning over your portfolio is dependent on how good a trader you are and we`ve actually done a stud of our trading activity where we found that most of the trades we make are trimming and adding to stocks. We like to trim our stocks when they go up a lot and take a little bit of risk off and as they come in to attract prices we add to them and the way we look at our turnover has actually added 4 percentage points of annualized return based on the internal study we. Did so you just have to be a good trader. 

 LISOVICZ: Part of the attraction, Arden, is a lot of mid-caps include utilities and financials and we all know how they`ve been doing. 

 ARMSTRONG: Right. Well, if you look at the year to date performance of the S&P mid-cap index, i think it`s gotten a boost from utilities and financials which have done very well and growth managers tend to be underweight those as we. Have the S&P index is up over 20percent. Another big impact on that S&P mid-cap index is that when S&P wants to put stocks into the 500, a lot of times they`ll be taking them out of the mid-cap and, you know, portfolio managers and brokers will come in and try to front run S&P and so very often these big stocks in the mid-cap index, the largest holdings in the mid-cap index will be running up in anticipation that S&P is going to put them in the 500 and that`s another thing that makes those mid-cap stocks very attractive because they`re targets for large cap managers and S&P index to buy before they go into the 500. 

 TUCKER: So you get a free ride on the speculation. Arden, thank you very much for being here. Arden Armstrong from the MAS Mid-Cap Funds. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc.  ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by eMediaMillWorks, Inc.  (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.)  No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document ithm000020010807dw8v00077




 International News 
 Michelin Will Increase Output Fivefold to Help Fill Tire Void --- Benefit to Company Is Expected to Be Small 

 By David Woodruff 
Staff Reporter
520 words
31 August 2000
The Asian Wall Street Journal
AWSJ
9
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 PARIS -- Groupe Michelin is increasing production of some tire models fivefold over the next three months to provide replacements for some of the 6.5 million Firestone tires recalled in the U.S., most of which were mounted on Ford Motor Co.'s Explorer sport-utility vehicles. 

 Michelin is moving other products out of three factories, in Oklahoma, Alabama and Nova Scotia, which will make room for additional capacity, said Nancy Banks, a spokeswoman at Michelin headquarters in Clermont-Ferrand, France. The company, which also sells tires under the BF Goodrich and Uniroyal brands, explains on its U.S. Web site how consumers can buy Michelin replacement tires and be reimbursed by Bridgestone/Firestone, the Tennessee-based unit of Japan's Bridgestone Corp. 

 Bridgestone said Tuesday that it will further boost production of replacement tires at plants in Japan and will charter Boeing 747 jumbo jets to shuttle the tires to the U.S. next month. 

 Analysts expect Michelin to temporarily increase its 23% share of the $22.5 billion U.S. tire market thanks to the recall. But they also figure Bridgestone/Firestone, also with a 23% market share, based on 1999 sales, will fight to regain lost ground once the recall crisis dies down, perhaps by the second quarter of next year. The North American industry leader is Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co., with a 28% share. 

 While market shares may shift, the entire industry is being squeezed by raw-materials prices that have risen as much as 10% from a year ago. Tire makers have been unable to pass those higher costs on to consumers. 

 "Michelin, along with Goodyear, is in the best position to gain from Firestone's problems," says Gregory Melich, an analyst at Morgan Stanley in London. "But the tire industry still faces a lot of challenges. Oil prices are going up and it remains a fiercely competitive business." 

 Indeed, Michelin management cut production in June, in large part because of weakness in the North American market, and followed in July with a profit warning. The company said operating profit for the first half would fall short of the year-earlier figure of 611 million euros ($545.5 million). It also said it would miss its goal of 9.5% operating margins for the full year. 

 Analysts, who chopped earnings estimates by as much as 20% after the warning, say the benefit from additional tire sales during the rest of the year will be modest. 

 Bridgestone/Firestone earlier this month asked Michelin to help supply replacements for the recalled tires. But it will take some months for Michelin and other makers to work through the spike in demand. The recall of 6.5 million tires amounts to about 2% of all car and light-truck tire sales in North America in a year, say analysts. It takes a typical factory about a year to build that many tires, according to Michelin. 

 --- 

 Patricia Davis in Pittsburgh contributed to this article. 

Document awsj000020010803dw8v00aio




Heard in California
 THE WALL STREET JOURNAL / CALIFORNIA 
 This Regional Fund Is Confident It Has Enough Diversity to Succeed 

 By Brenda L. Moore 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
1,263 words
30 August 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
CA2
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Could it be that not all regional-stock funds are created equal? 

 Such funds, which specialize in companies from a specific geographic area, generally get the thumbs-down from market gurus, who find that they don't provide investors with the necessary market diversification. 

 But a pair of money managers from Collins & Co., a money-management firm based in Larkspur, say their new Golden Gate Fund, which draws from 10 counties in the Bay Area, has more than enough companies to choose from for a diversified portfolio. 

 Naturally, the 37 companies in the fund are heavily weighted toward Silicon Valley technology issues, including Cisco Systems, Oracle and Intel. But other industries also are represented, such as financial services (Wells Fargo), consumer stocks (Clorox) and retailers (Safeway). 

 "Our fund really is a fund investing across many industries, across different styles," says Bruce Raabe, one of the fund managers. 

 Mr. Raabe and colleague Brian Eisenbarth opened the fund June 30, so it's too early to gauge the how successful this strategy will be. Still, Golden Gate has posted a two-month return of more than 8% through Monday, better than the Dow Jones Industrial Average and the Standard & Poor's 500 and Nasdaq indexes for the same period. 

 Still, it is a regional fund, and regional funds don't make much sense, says Geoff Bobroff, president of Bobroff Consulting, a mutual-fund-industry consulting firm in East Greenwich, R.I. When there are 10,000 stocks to choose from in the country, Mr. Bobroff wonders why investors would limit themselves to a few hundred. "Is it really of value, or is it a marketing tool?" he asks. 

 Mr. Raabe says history shows it isn't folly to limit picks to the Bay Area, where he says the concentration of fast-growing companies gives investors a full plate to pick from. He cites average annualized returns for the Bay Area's Bloomberg San Francisco Index of 41.7% from 1996 through Friday, compared with 33.9% for the Nasdaq composite and 23.1% for the S&P 500. 

 Whatever the motivation for the fund, it joins a handful of other geographically centered funds that focus on areas as small as one city or as large as multiple states. Earlier this month, a Texas money manager launched his second geographic fund; the first focuses on Austin, the second on the entire state. The most successful regional is the Franklin California Growth Fund, started in 1991 by Franklin Templeton Group of San Mateo. That fund is up nearly 23% year-to-date through Friday, benefiting largely from run-ups in some technology stocks. 

 Messrs. Raabe and Eisenbarth selected stocks for their fund from the more than 300 companies in the region by sticking mainly with mid- to large-capitalization companies that demonstrate a history of showing profits. They're also in the market for growth as well as value stocks that they think will show appreciation in share prices in the next year or two. They have limited Golden Gate's holdings to companies with headquarters in Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin, Napa, San Francisco, San Mateo, Santa Clara, Santa Cruz, Solano and Sonoma counties. 

 Minimum investment is $2,000, and so far they have only $2 million under management. Neither has managed a mutual fund before, though both oversee portfolios for institutions and individuals at Collins. 

 Mr. Raabe says he expects the fund to always be about 60%-70% weighted in technology stocks. Right now, his favorite picks in the portfolio include two tech issues, Applied Signal Technology and Agilent Technologies, as well as downtrodden retailer Gap and wine maker Robert Mondavi. 

 Applied Signal, based in Sunnyvale, makes equipment to gather and process telecommunications signals. Government contracting has been a big part of its business, but Mr. Raabe says he is more interested in its strategy to leverage its technology for the private sector, "where the growth potential is much greater and profit margins are higher." 

 In April, Applied Signal established two new operating subsidiaries: eNetSecure, to enter the cyberspace security market, and Transcendent Technologies, targeting satellite and wireless communications monitoring. Investments in the new units coupled with decreasing demand for the company's other products and services dragged down net income by 38% to $3.9 million for the nine months ended July 28 compared with a year earlier. 

 Shares have fallen to about $8 from a high near $30 in March, but Mr. Raabe thinks the investments will pay off. "We see this as a great opportunity to buy these shares, as the growth potential in the wireless space is substantial over the next few years," he says. 

 Agilent, a Hewlett-Packard spinoff, has taken shareholders for a bumpy ride of late. The Palo Alto maker of measurement and testing equipment for companies that produce electronic components, chip sets and fiber-optic connectivity products warned in July that its fiscal third-quarter profit was going to miss analysts' targets. Agilent cited a shortage of some components as a factor. 

 The stock fell and analysts cut their estimates. But a month later, Agilent released results that were in line with the original estimates, saying several factors combined to push results back up, including unexpected deliveries of needed parts. 

 "We bought the stock after the recent warning about component shortages," Mr. Raabe says. "Agilent's problem is not lack of demand, but production execution. We see this as fixable over the short term and expect above-average appreciation in these shares over the long term." 

 Shares are trading at about $63, up from where they were after the profit warning, but down from a high of $162 set in March. 

 Like Agilent, Gap also warned about missing earnings, but in this case, the results lived up to the advance notice. The San Francisco-based parent of Gap, Banana Republic and Old Navy stores has suffered from weaker-than-expected sales in an environment that has been tough on many retailers. When the chain announced second-quarter earnings earlier this month, it also said third- and fourth-quarter earnings could fall short of expectations. Shares fell to a 52-week low of $25.063, and are now around $26. 

 "We see this as a cyclical issue and not a permanent reduction in consumer demand for Gap-brand merchandise," Mr. Raabe says. "We think Gap has one of the strongest and most valuable franchises in the retail industry. Their control over the entire process from manufacturing to merchandising and their financial track record is unparalleled." 

 Mondavi, an Oakville-based wine maker, has been one of the Golden Gate Fund's best performers, especially after a run-up on Monday's news that two other public wine makers in California -- Beringer Wine Estates and R.H. Phillips -- are being acquired. 

 "Beringer is gone now, is Mondavi next?" asks Mr. Raabe. "If it looks cheap to us, it probably looks cheap to others." Mondavi, whose stock is trading at about $40, has been posting "great numbers," Mr. Raabe says, "growing earnings per share in the midteens for several quarters." 

 Before the buyout news, some wine stocks had languished partly because of concern that a glut of grapes this season will drive down prices. But, Mr. Raabe says, "Wine consumption continues to grow, and Mondavi continues to leverage their established brand name to introduce new labels with strong profitability." 

Document j000000020010807dw8u00o81




 Bridgestone Boosts Tire Production in Japan to Support Recall 

 By Wall Street Journal Staff Reporters Todd Zaun in Tokyo and David Woodruff in Paris 
828 words
30 August 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
A8
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Scrambling to support its vast U.S. recall of Firestone tires, Japan's Bridgestone Corp. said it will further boost production of replacement tires at plants in Japan and will charter Boeing 747 jumbo jets to shuttle the tires to the U.S. next month. 

 Bridgestone, the parent company of Bridgestone/Firestone Inc., of Nashville, Tenn., has been trying to raise tire production in Japan and accelerate the recall of 6.5 million Firestone tires, most of which were mounted on Ford Motor Co.'s popular Explorer sport-utility vehicles. 

 Other tire makers also are ramping up production to provide replacements for the recalled Firestone tires. But in the case of France's Groupe Michelin, analysts expect the company will see a temporary boost in sales, thanks to the Firestone recall, but not enough to offset the difficulties that prompted the French concern to issue a profit warning in July, partly because of the burden of higher oil prices. 

 Bridgestone said yesterday it has increased output at the three factories in Japan that have been making replacement tires since last week, and it added production at a fourth factory. Bridgestone now expects to produce 650,000 replacement tires by the end of this year, or one-tenth of the tires needed for the U.S. recall. Last week, the company had projected its Japan plants would be able to churn out just 450,000 by the end of the year. Bridgestone hopes to complete the recall by early 2001. 

 Bridgestone's move to boost tire output did nothing to help the company's swooning share price. Bridgestone shares fell 4.5% on the Tokyo Stock Exchange Tuesday, closing at 1,526 yen ($14.33). The shares are down 38% since the recall was announced Aug. 9. 

 Last Wednesday, Bridgestone started sending tires to the U.S. from Japan by air cargo but had transported just 2,000 tires as of Sunday. Bridgestone's Japanese factories can't churn out more replacement tires immediately because of a shortage of molds for the American tire models. Before last week, Bridgestone hadn't made the American models in Japan. 

 Shipment of the 650,000 tires will be concentrated in the latter part of the year, as the tire maker speeds the pace of production when molds become available. 

 Michelin is increasing production of some tire models by 400% over the next three months to provide replacements for the recalled Firestone tires by moving other products out of three factories, in Oklahoma, Alabama and Nova Scotia. This will make room for additional capacity, said Nancy Banks, a spokeswoman at Michelin headquarters in Clermont-Ferrand, France. The company, which also sells under the BFGoodrich and Uniroyal brands, explains on its U.S. Web site how consumers can buy Michelin replacement tires and get reimbursed by Firestone. 

 Analysts expect Michelin will temporarily increase its 23% share of the $22.5 billion U.S. tire market thanks to the recall. But they also figure Bridgestone/Firestone, also with a 23% market share, based on 1999 sales, will fight to regain lost ground once the recall crisis dies down, perhaps by next spring. The North American industry leader is Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co., with a 28% share. 

 Moreover, the entire industry is being squeezed by raw-materials prices, which have risen as much as 10% from a year ago. So far, tire makers have been unable to pass those higher costs on to consumers. 

 "Michelin, along with Goodyear, is in the best position to gain from Firestone's problems," says Gregory Melich, an analyst at Morgan Stanley in London. "But the tire industry still faces a lot of challenges. Oil prices are going up and it remains a fiercely competitive business." 

 Indeed, Michelin management cut production in June, in large part because of weakness in the important North American market, and followed in July with a profit warning. The company said operating profit for the first half would fall short of the year-earlier figure of 611 million euros ($550 million). It also said it would miss its goal of 9.5% operating margins for the full year. 

 Analysts, who chopped earnings estimates by as much as 20% after the warning, say the benefit from additional truck-tire sales during the rest of the year will be modest. 

 Bridgestone/Firestone earlier this month asked Michelin to help supply replacements for the recalled tires. But it will take some months for Michelin and other makers to work through the spike in demand. The 6.5-million-tire recall amounts to about 2% of all car and light truck tire sales in North America in a year, say analysts. It takes a typical factory about a year to build that many tires, according to Michelin. 

 --- 

 Patricia Davis in Pittsburgh contributed to this article. 

Document j000000020010807dw8u00o3d




 AT&T  Profit Warning  Focuses Attention on Excite At Home 

350 words
30 August 2000
05:40
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- A day after AT&T Corp. lowered its third-quarter earnings forecast to reflect the results of Excite At Home Corp., some investors and industry observers are paying closer attention to the giant telecommunications company's investment in the once high-flying Internet-access provider, The Wall Street Journal reported Wednesday. 

 On Monday, AT&T (T) announced that it would fold results for Excite At Home (ATHM), which provides high-speed Internet access over cable-TV lines, into AT&T's financial statements a quarter earlier than expected. As a result, AT&T said earnings for the third period would be five cents a share below expectations. 

 With AT&T's shares depressed and Excite At Home's stock near an all-time low, the news left some observers wondering about AT&T's broadband strategy, the Journal reported. 

 Indeed, the amount of debt that AT&T is taking on is causing concern among some credit-rating agencies, the Journal reported. Yesterday, Standard & Poor's placed ratings for AT&T and its units on CreditWatch with negative implications, saying the placement "reflects concerns regarding AT&T's cable television strategy, long-term prospects for AT&T's core long-distance business, a more aggressive wireless expansion plan, and the company's overall strategic direction." 

 "AT&T's stock is a case study of Wall Street's impatience with management's attempt to solidify a long-term growth strategy," said Frederick Moran, an analyst at Jefferies & Co. Inc. "Right now investors are shunning AT&T stock -- they're not sure when or to what degree [AT&T] will pan out." 

 Excite At Home, of Redwood City, Calif., is a product of the merger of Web portal Excite Inc. with At Home Corp., which pioneered the idea of using cable-TV networks to connect users to the Internet, the Journal reported. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dw8u01hwt




 Whirlpool Sees 3rd Quarter, 4th Quarter Hurt By Circuit City Decision 

472 words
30 August 2000
12:00
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 DALLAS -(Dow Jones)- Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) said its third and fourth quarter earnings will be hurt by Circuit City Stores Inc.'s (CC) recently announced decision to exit the major appliances business as well as competitive pricing pressures in the North American market. 

 Whirlpool also cited a challenging appliance industry environment in the European market. 

 The company expects to earn between 95 cents and $1.05 a diluted share in the third quarter and between $1.45 and $1.55 a diluted share in the fourth quarter. 

 A First Call/Thomson Financial survey of eight analysts produced a mean earnings estimate of $1.52 a share in the third quarter while six analysts forecast the company will earn $1.68 a share in the fourth quarter. 

 After Circuit City's announcement, Whirlpool said its ongoing analysis indicated Whirlpool would lose between 90 and 120 days of previously expected shipments to Circuit City, as they liquidate their inventories and other appliance retailers pick up their consumer demand. 

 The one-time loss of an estimated 250,0000 to 300,000 units, as well as effects from manufacturing production levels and the impact of competitive pricing, will hurt third quarter earnings by 40 cents and 50 cents a diluted share. 

 For the 1999 third quarter, Whirlpool earned $107 million, or $1.40 a diluted share, on sales of $2.72 billion. 

 In the year-ago fourth quarter, the company earned $113 million, or $1.51 a diluted share, on sales of $2.69 billion. 

 Whirlpool also said the European appliance environment is "becoming more challenging," with varied and volatile levels of consumer demand on a market-by-market basis, pricing pressures as well as increasing material costs and the strong dollar. 

 The European factors are expected to cut the company's earnings by 20 cents and 25 cents a diluted share in the second half of the year. 

 The company said it is addressing the issues and expects to return to more normal revenue and earnings trends during the fourth quarter. 

 Whirlpool expects new product introductions and other brand-building initiatives to deliver improving performance in the second half of the year. The company anticipates entering 2001 with good momentum. 

 Whirlpool's announcement comes after Prudential Securities analysts Nicholas Heymann lowered his rating on the company to a "sell" from a "hold." The analyst believed the appliance company was undergoing many changes so fast, predicting a slow but steady decline in the company's market share. 

 The company's announcement also follows Monday's warning from Maytag Corp. (MYG), which sees its current third quarter earnings "much more challenging." But Maytag remains hopeful it could still hit the low end of its full-year profit range. 

 -Freddy Sebastian; Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5400 

Document dj00000020010805dw8u03cfp


Newscast: Business news and stock report   

503 words
30 August 2000
CBS News: Morning News
CBSM
English
(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

RANDALL PINKSTON, anchor:   

On Wall Street, stocks were mixed Tuesday, with blue chips taking a modest hit. The Dow closed at 11,215, off 37.74.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Dow Jones Industrials   

11,215.10 down 37.74   

Volume: 795,680,000   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

PINKSTON: The NASDAQ managed to squeak out an 11-point gain.   

(Graphic on screen)   

NASDAQ   

4,082.17 up 11.58   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

PINKSTON: In Tokyo overnight, the Nikkei lost 240 points.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Tokyo Nikkei Average   

16,901.67 down 240.08   

Change: down 1.40%   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

PINKSTON: Now on the CBS MarketWatch, Alexis Christoforous takes a look at some of the winners and losers.   

ALEXIS CHRISTOFOROUS reporting:   

It was another sleepy session on Wall Street, but most of the action was found in the brokerage stocks. Investors lit a fire under shares of DLJ.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette   

(DLJ)   

up 14 3/16 to 80   

CHRISTOFOROUS: That stock rocketed more than $14 on news that the seventh biggest US broker is in talks to be sold to its larger European rival, Credit Suisse First Boston. An announcement could be made as early as this week.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Brokerage Stocks   

Lehman BrothersJ.P. Morgan (LEH) (JPM)   

up up 3 1/6 3 7/8 to to 140 9/16 149   

CHRISTOFOROUS: Now that news sent other brokerage stocks through the roof.  Lehman Brothers, which is seen as a prime takeover target itself, and  J.P. Morgan each gained more than $3.   

(Graphic on screen)   

AT&T (T)   

up 1 1/2 to 31 3/4   

CHRISTOFOROUS: And a profit warning from  AT&T didn't stop investors from buying. The stock rallied 1 1/2. Ma Bell said third-quarter profit will be cut by a nickel a share because it gained control of the high-speed cable company  Excite@Home. Analysts said the bad news was already priced into the stock.   

Here at the NASDAQ, shares of  Intel rallied to a near 52-week high.  Intel is recalling its newest Pentium III processor after finding a bug in some of those chips, but the recall will not have any effect on  Intel's earnings. And shareholders in wine stocks had something to toast. Beringer Wines rallied more than $10 after Foster's, Australia's biggest brewer, bought the wine-maker for over $1 billion.   

And the housing market remains red hot. New home sales surged 14.7 percent last month. That's the biggest increase in seven years. Apparently a slight dip in mortgage rates in July was all it took to bring buyers back into the market. At the NASDAQ market site, I'm Alexis Christoforous, CBS MarketWatch.   

PINKSTON: And for the latest on all the markets, click on cbs.marketwatch.com.   

Straight ahead on the MORNING NEWS, your Wednesday morning weather. And in sports, the Pedro Martinez pitch that sparked a brawl at Tampa Bay.   

(Announcements)   

Document CBSM000020070818dw8u002ck




YESTERDAY'S MARKETS
 Report on Business: Money & Markets 
 Late-day Nortel slide undermines Bay St. but U.S. indexes rise Only four of TSE subindexes close higher; tech, financial stocks help boost Wall St. 

 RICHARD BLOOM 
The Globe and Mail
551 words
29 August 2000
The Globe and Mail
GLOB
Metro
B19
English
 All material copyright Thomson Canada Limited or its licensors. All rights reserved. 

 Toronto's 800-pound gorilla pulled Canada's benchmark index in and out of the red, leaving it in negative territory. 

 The Toronto Stock Exchange 300-stock composite index closed 21.59 points lower at 11,224.45 as late-day weakness in market heavyweight Nortel Networks Corp. dropped the index from its intraday high of 11,325.36, 

 In New York, the Dow Jones industrial average gained 60.21 points to 11,252.84, with one the world's largest high-tech companies showing leadership. International Business Machines Corp. rose $1.56 (U.S.) to $130.56 in the wake of a positive report by Credit Suisse First Boston. 

 Wall Street's blue-chip financials also posted strong gains as investors brushed off previous interest rate jitters. 

 The technology-laden Nasdaq Stock Market's composite index advanced 27.91 points to 4,070.59. Intel Corp., Microsoft Corp. and Cisco Systems Inc. headed higher and sat atop the most-active list. 

 Yahoo Inc. sank 9 per cent to $122.06 after a negative Lehman Brothers report that examined the financial future of the Internet search engine provider. 

 The broad Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 7.63 points to 1,514.09. 

 Canada's junior high techs nudged the Canadian Venture Exchange's CDNX index up 0.41 points to 3,426.17. 

 On Bay Street, only four of the TSE's 14 subindexes closed higher, led by the pipelines and financial services sectors. 

 The utilities grouping closed higher on the back of a large deal involving phone company Call-Net Enterprises Inc. The Toronto-based firm advanced 5 per cent to $3.15 (Canadian) after signing a multifaceted five-year agreement with 360networks Inc., which Call-Net said would bring in $240-million. 360networks closed up 10 cents to $24.50. 

 Sector peer Microcell Telecommunications Inc. added 7 per cent to its share price, closing at $55.75, while heavyweight BCE Inc. rose 25 cents to $33.55. 

 Market mover Nortel Networks, which surged for most of the session, ended $1.15 cheaper at $120.75. An independent research and consulting firm said yesterday that Norel has widened its lead in the high-performance optical Internet solutions market. 

 Shares of security software maker Certicom Corp. took a tumble, falling $5.05 to $45.25, after a disappointing first-quarter earnings report. 

 Earning-related news also pummelled movie theatre company Loews Cineplex Entertainment Corp. Investors reacted to a recent profit warning by selling the stock. It slumped $1.13 to $3.12. 

 From the oil patch, Husky Energy Ltd. started trading yesterday on the TSE. Husky Energy, the result of a merger between Husky Oil and Rennaissance Energy Ltd., opened stronger than analysts had expected, hitting a high of $14. The shares closed at $13. 

 You can read market updates through the day at www.globeandmail.com

 New York odd lots 

 Odd-lot trades made Friday through the New York Stock Exchange: 

 Customer purchases4,477,277 Short sales181,200 Other sales4,252,393 

 Total sales4,433,593 

Document glob000020010806dw8t013u5




 Financial Post Investing 
 Internet hoax wipes US$2.5-billion off stock: Emulex recovers, but Nasdaq won't cancel trades 

 Scott Adams 
Financial Post, with files from news services
513 words
26 August 2000
National Post
FINP
National
C01 / Front
English
 (c) National Post 2000. All Rights Reserved. 

 A fake news release caused a California company's stock to free fall more than 60% yesterday, sparking panic among investors that wiped out US$2.5-billion of value in a matter of minutes. 

 Emulex Corp., a networking equipment company, tumbled after newswire and Internet sites carried a report saying it was issuing a profitwarning, its chief executive had resigned and it was being investigated by the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

 The stock (EMLX/NASDAQ) tumbled US$113 1/16 to as low as US$43 before it was halted. Other stocks in the company's sector, such as QLogic Corp. (QLGC/NASDAQ), tanked in sympathy. After Emulex said the news was bogus and trading had resumed, the stock rocketed back to US$130 before falling back to a close at US$105 3/4. QLogic recovered too. 

 The bogus release was carried by a lesser-known press release distributor called Internet Wire. Dow Jones and Bloomberg then ran it. 

 Internet Wire, which verifies press releases before it distributes them, said an individual falsely represented him- or herself as a public relations agency representing Emulex. Dow Jones and Bloomberg rely on press release distributors to verify releases. 

 Some people use chat rooms "to put rumour and innuendo into the marketplace," said Paul Folino, Emulex CEO. "Obviously, this is beyond innuendo, but something done for personal gain. Short positions are the first place people look. We'll let the SEC and FBI do the homework." 

 The Nasdaq said it wouldn't cancel trades in Emulex shares made before the halt because the hoax falls outside SEC guidelines for cancellations. 

 The incident is the latest one in which it seems as if someone has tried to make a buck from fake news releases. Well-known press release distributor Business Wire successfully sued three individuals last year after they submitted a false release about a company called Webnode. Business Wire verified the release with the individuals, but later found out the news was a sham. 

 Other incidents have occurred, but in Internet chat rooms. In Canada, Coromandel Resources Ltd. spiked from 1 cents to 17 cents in February on a press release posted on the Internet that said the junior miner was buying a technology company. The news was false and was traced to a college computer lab, but regulators haven't found the individual responsible. 

 Bloomberg sued Gary Hoke, who posted a fake Bloomberg story saying PairGain Technologies Inc. was being acquired. He was fined US$93,000 and given five years' probation. And a Chicago man, Leszek Zbierajewski, allegedly posted a false release on Yahoo about Bid.Com International Inc. last year. The case was settled with no fines because of Mr. Zbierajewski's "demonstrated inability to pay." 

sadams@nationalpost.com

 Chart/Graph: Bloomberg News / EMULEX: EMLX/NASDAQ: Aug. 25 US$105 3/4 -US$7 5/16, Vol: 11,100,800 

Document finp000020010806dw8q00gvu




 Bond investors mind the gap - in credit ratings. 

 By Jonathan Stempel 
664 words
25 August 2000
16:00
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Aug 25 (Reuters) - To corporate bond investors, who usually deal in numbers, one letter can make all the difference. 

 Those investors have in recent weeks focused unusual attention on the gulf between companies rated "single-A" and "triple-B," both investment grades, and companies rated "double-B" and "single-B," which are junk grades. 

 Agencies like Moody's Investors Service, Standard & Poor's and Fitch assign ratings to help investors gauge the quality of corporate credit and debt. 

 Investors are traditionally most concerned about the chasm between "BBB" and "BB" rated companies, which straddle the line between investment-grade and junk bond status. Bonds crossing over that line often surge, or tumble, in value. 

 Experts say the current shift reflects liquidity concerns and fears the market may punish companies for credit weakness before rating agencies get around to it. 

 "People are shooting first and not giving companies the benefit of the doubt like they used to," said Kent Gasaway, who helps manage $1.5 billion for the Buffalo Funds in Shawnee Mission, Kan. 

 British Telecommunications Plc knows the feeling. 

 Britain's largest phone company was forced this week to delay marketing as much as $10 billion of bonds because of fear S&P might cut its ratings all the way to "BBB," rather than just to "A," as it eventually did. 

 Uncertainty, or the lower rating, would have substantially raised British Telecom's borrowing costs. 

 Investors say "BBB" bonds are more prone to "blow up," or plunge in value, because of a negative surprise, such as a profit warning. 

 This month, for example, "BBB" rated bonds sold by Scottsdale, Ariz.-based business lender Finova Group Inc. and Plano, Texas-based retailer J.C. Penney Co. suffered such blow-ups. 

 Such fears helped widen the yield gap between high "A" rated and high "BBB" rated industrial bonds in August to 0.60 percentage points from 0.42, according to bond dealer Greenwich Partners Inc. in Greenwich, Conn. An average "BBB" rated bond yields about 7.85 percent. 

 "The gap between single-A and triple-B has ballooned, which is a function of a lot of supply, not a whole lot of cash around, and the threat of downgrades," said David Lockwood, head of fixed-income research at Greenwich Partners. 

 Meanwhile, experts said sellers of higher-rated "BB" junk bonds fare better than sellers of "B" rated bonds because of a rising default rate, hope for rating upgrades and investors' preference for companies with positive earnings and cash flow. 

 "At the margins there is some degree of nervousness that is leading people to take the safer bet," said Randy Masel, director of high-yield strategy at PaineWebber Inc. 

 This month, for example, "BB" rated Nashville-based hospital chain HCA-The Healthcare Corp. and Las Vegas-based casino operator Mandalay Resort Group found enough demand to sell bonds with yields well below 10 percent. 

 Yet "B" rated Friede Goldman Halter Inc., a drilling rig builder based in Gulfport, Miss., and Cleveland-based auto parts maker Shiloh Industries Inc. had to cancel sales because they found the respective 12 and 13 percent yields they could have been forced to pay too high. 

 Indeed, the yield gap between "BB" and "B" rated bonds has widened from 2.19 percentage points on July 31 to 2.95 percentage points on Thursday, Lehman Brothers Inc. said, with an average "B" rated bond yielding 12.82 percent. 

 Optimism the junk sector may turn around after two years of dismal returns and billions of dollars of cash outflows may explain some of that gap. 

 "People want to be in double-Bs because historically when money flows into high-yield, the most liquid and higher-quality names move first," said Gasaway. 

 Some believe even "BBB" rated bonds may soon recover. 

 "Whoever has cash can find value in triple-B," said Lockwood. "Investors will be rewarded for taking on risk." 

Document lba0000020010821dw8p09oex




 TALES OF THE TAPE: Mergers May Sweep Household Goods  Group 

 By Cathleen Egan 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
876 words
25 August 2000
19:00
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- First the pantry, now the space underneath the kitchen sink. 

 Much in the same way that major merger activity has swallowed up the food sector in recent months, similar consolidation could sweep through the household goods group, albeit not in the immediate future. 

 The sector - feeling the pressure from growing retailers, declining volume levels and the need for global breadth - has seen profits take a punch over the last few years. The industry, once characterized by consistent double-digit earnings growth, now struggles to achieve single-digit profit gains. Among the profit-warning weary: Procter & Gamble Co. (PG), Gillette Co. (G) and Dial Corp. (DL). 

 Mergers, say several investors, analysts and fund managers, could unlock earnings power. By partnering, manufacturers could level the playing field against bigger supermarket chains, open opportunities overseas and create substantial cost savings. 

 Perhaps one of the biggest proponents of consolidation in the household goods group is Banc of America Securities LLC analyst Bill Steele. In a 239-page report entitled "Global Consumer Products: A 'Brand' New Industry Ahead," Steele writes that "significant" merger and acquisition activity will take place over the next few years. 

 "Larger companies will shed tertiary brands, international companies will merge with complementary North American companies and middle-tier companies will redefine their core categories," he writes. 

 Steele supports his thesis by dissecting the dissipation of earnings consistency, which he attributes to a loss of pricing power, consolidation by retailers and a lack of new markets. He believes that merger and acquisition activity over the next 12 to 18 months "will be driven by companies seeking to achieve an ideal mix of brands and categories." 

 So what's going to happen, he says, is that large companies will divest non-core brands and focus on main businesses. Evidence of this strategy came as recently as this week, when Procter & Gamble said it's considering selling its Clearasil acne-treatment brand. 

 Also, Steele says, "Mega-mergers are a possibility," although a combination, say, of P&G and Unilever NV (UN UL) is highly unlikely. 

 In the next group of large companies, which includes such household names as Kimberly-Clark Co. (KMB), Gillette and Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL), merger activity, Steele writes, is not an impossibility. European companies are seen merging with North American ones in the interest of creating stronger global partnerships. Also middle-tier companies will either get bought or buy brands in order to create dominant franchises within certain categories. 


   From Bad To Worse



Steele's hypothesis about the future of the group is arguably the
sharpest-toned out there. But there are others who support the notion
that consolidation will eventually happen. They're just waiting for
matters to go from bad to worse.



For example, Greg Fontana, a buyside analyst for John Hancock Funds,
which owns such consumer products stocks as Estee Lauder Cos. (EL) and
Clorox Co. (CLX), says there "possibly" may be consolidation in the
sector, but "there would have to be more pain in the group for that to
happen." Meaning, the consumer group is going to have to hit a low
similar to the one reached by the food sector, which put up with
declines in volume, sales, profits and stock prices for years before the
chief executives of some of the major players finally decided to
relinquish independence and merge with another.



Among the most notable food acquisitions: Philip Morris Cos.'s (MO)
purchase of Nabisco Holdings Corp. (NA), Unilever's buy of Bestfoods
(BFO) and Diageo PLC's (DEO) sale of its Pillsbury unit to General Mills
Inc. (GIS). All took place more than a year and a half after Wall Street
first started publicly clamoring for consolidation in the food industry.



"I'm amazed at how long companies can coast along and how long boards
will allow companies to coast along," Fontana says.



There are a number of related examples playing out in the household
goods industry. Among them: Dial, Procter & Gamble, Clorox and Gillette.
From profit warnings to management upheavals to underwhelming acceptance
and integration of acquisitions, these companies have been
underperformers in the last year.



So what's a consumer products company to do? What is its breaking
point?



The chief executives "get so frustrated that the stock isn't going up
- and not just going up, going down, even as they (may) deliver good
earnings," says Marvin Roffman, president of Roffman Miller Associates,
which among other stocks owns Sara Lee Corp. (SLE), P&G and Gillette.
"Yes, I see consolidation happening."



To what degree is perhaps too soon to say. The group is made up of far
fewer publicly-traded companies than in the food sector. Plus, with even
the larger companies in the group struggling to bring consistency and
strong growth back to the bottom line, acquisition activity by their
part may be far off.



"In the business environment, the arguments (for consolidation) may
hold, but in the transaction environment they don't," says Argus
Research analyst Daniel Peris. "There are not enough healthy players."



-Cathleen Egan, Dow Jones Newswires, 201-938-5289;
cathleen.egan@dowjones.com


Document dj00000020010805dw8p03apu




YESTERDAY'S MARKETS
 Report on Business: Money & Markets 
 Forestry, tech stocks help Bay St. bounce back into the black IBM, HP, GM pull Dow out of early slide; Nasdaq also gains but S&P 500 edges lower 

 RICHARD BLOOM 
The Globe and Mail
582 words
25 August 2000
The Globe and Mail
GLOB
Metro
B11
English
 All material copyright Thomson Canada Limited or its licensors. All rights reserved. 

 A mix of Old Economy and New Economy stocks kept Bay Street in the black, pushing Canada's benchmark index higher and eliminating Wednesday's loss. 

 The Toronto Stock Exchange 300-stock index closed 71.17 points higher at 11,178.98 on strength in the natural resources and tech sectors. 

 In New York, the Dow Jones industrial average, which fell during the morning session, ended 38.09 points higher at 11,182.74 as Hewlett-Packard Co., International Business Machines Corp. and General Motors Corp. gained ground. 

 Boeing Co. also rose, surging 6 per cent to $53.56 (U.S.), after an analyst with Credit Suisse First Boston put out a positive report on the aircraft maker. Boeing stock hit a 52-week high yesterday, surpassing its previous peak of $50.94. 

 The Nasdaq Stock Market's tech-heavy composite index gained 42.29 points to 4,053.3. Aastrom Biosciences Inc. was Nasdaq's big winner, soaring 59 per cent to $4.28. After Wednesday's closing bell, the U.S. National Institute of Health issued guidelines that allow government funding of research on stem cells derived from human embryos and fetal tissue, sparking investor enthusiasm. Stemcells Inc. was also popular, gaining 31 per cent to $9.66. 

 The broad Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 2.34 points to 1,508.31. 

 On the Canadian Venture Exchange, small-capitalization stocks pushed the CDNX index up 18.27 points to 3,396.3. 

 Six of the TSE's 14 subindexes closed higher, with the paper and forest products sector dominating. The group climbed almost 3 per cent on the back of Abitibi-Consolidated Inc., which ended 85 cents (Canadian) higher at $15.95 (Canadian). 

 Between the TSE's opening and closing bells, Dylex Ltd. released a shopping-cart full of news. The clothing retailer signed a $110-million deal to sell its Thriftys, Braemar and National Logistics Services divisions to Pennsylvania-based American Eagle Outfitters Inc. Dylex also posted a lower second-quarter earnings statement yesterday. Its shares closed 11 cents higher at $1.07. 

 ATI Technologies Inc. moved forward $1.05 to $14.60 after being selected by Japanese video game giant Nintendo Co. Ltd. as exclusive graphics chip supplier of the new Nintendo Gamecube. The new console was unveiled at Nintendo's Spaceworld Show in Tokyo. 

 Reports of a $150-million (U.S.) expansion into Israel helped boost the share price of JDS Uniphase Corp. by $4.20 to $186.30. 

 Heavyweight Nortel Networks Corp. closed $1.50 higher at $122. Other rising tech stocks included: Descartes Systems Group Ltd., Certicom Corp., Celestica Inc., Norsat International Inc. and Corel Corp. 

 In U.S. trading, Rochester, N.Y.-based Bausch & Lomb Inc. plummeted almost 36 per cent to $35.69 (U.S.). The eye care company fired its president and chief operating officer yesterday and issued a profitwarning for the rest of the year. 

 You can read market updates through the day at www.globeandmail.com

 New York Odd Lots 

 Odd-lot trades made Wednesday through the New York Stock Exchange: 


Customer purchases  6,797,452  Short sales  240,439
Other sales         3,988,411  Total sales  4,228,850


Document glob000020010806dw8p011w0




Business
US Slowdown To Punch Hole In Builders

Anthony Hughes   
466 words
24 August 2000
Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
24
English
© 2000 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.   www.smh.com.au

The US, until recently the building market offering the strongest growth prospects, is now, thanks to a slowdown, turning out to be a liability for Boral, James Hardie Industries and CSR. All their shares were weaker yesterday.

Hardie slumped 33c to $3.78, CSR 24c to $4.36 and Boral 2c to $2.13. Volumes were high in Hardie, with trading dominated by Merrill Lynch, and in CSR, where ABN Amro traded more than two million shares.

All three have targeted the US for growth and the slowdown is now threatening to undermine activity in their prime market at a time when the local construction industry is also slowing sharply.

Boral generated a quarter of its profits in the US; CSR more than 40 per cent of its operating profits. Hardie is the most exposed, with its fibre cement and gypsum operations accounting for close to 90 per cent of pre-tax profits.

The newly restructured Boral, which yesterday reported a 15 per cent rise in net profit before abnormals to $181 million and an unfranked final dividend of 9c, joined Hardie in warning it would have difficulty predicting the year ahead. This was in part because the lower level of housing starts and higher energy costs in the US would ease revenue and profit from its US operations.

Many analysts now expect all three to post lower profits in the year ahead. The biggest surprise has been Hardie, which on Monday shocked the market by revealing prices in the key US gypsum or wallboard market were deteriorating at a rapid pace because of new plants, and the company could not predict this year's profits.

Brokers said CSR, on the other hand, had run up strongly on offshore buying interest and its share buyback, but several large blocks of shares were offloaded yesterday. The 4 per cent fall in US housing construction in the June quarter is unlikely to affect CSR directly, as most of its profits come from selling construction materials for infrastructure projects, where the US Government is funding a huge spending program. Even on the housing front the fall-off is being described as a ``soft landing''.

Overall, Boral expects its profit to fall this financial year, but hopes to cushion the fall with operational improvements.

Managing director Mr Rod Pearse said the company expected a cyclical upturn would occur from the second half of 2002.

In the meantime, Boral's strengthened balance sheet and operation improvements put it in a better position to weather the downturn than previously.

But one analyst said: ``Boral's operations are going to be heading into a very big downturn and they are the ones most exposed to the Australian housing cycle.'' 

Document smhh000020010813dw8o00mnv


 BUSINESS 
 IN BRIEF 

617 words
24 August 2000
The Las Vegas Review-Journal
LVGS
Final
1D
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 Speedway sued for corporate waste 

 WILMINGTON, Del. - Speedway Motorsports Inc., one of the top U.S. racetrack operators, was sued by shareholders who contend the company wasted money by selling a valuable Nevada property to its chief executive at a cut-rate price. 

 Concord, N.C.-based Speedway said in January it sold its industrial park and 280 acres of adjacent land at the Las Vegas Motor Speedway for about $53 million to Bruton Smith, company chairman and chief executive. 

 In a lawsuit filed Friday in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington, Speedway shareholders Crandon Capital Partners say the property is worth about $70 million and that company directors wasted corporate assets by giving Smith a $17 million discount. 

 "Speedway sold the improved property at a loss to its controlling shareholder and CEO (for) far less than fair market value in the context of a rapidly rising real estate market in the Las Vegas area," Crandon contends in the suit. 

 The partners ask a judge to rescind the sale, order directors to reimburse the company for losses and ensure better internal controls over company assets. 

 WWF Entertainment reports earnings up 

 STAMFORD, Conn. - World Wrestling Federation Entertainment said its fiscal first-quarter profit rose 22 percent on higher pay-per- view and advertising sales related to its "SmackDown!" and "Raw Is War" television shows. 

 Net income rose to $15.2 million, or 22 cents per share, from $12.5 million, or 22 cents per share, a year earlier. 

 Revenue rose 34 percent to $101.8 million from $76.2 million. 

 WWF Entertainment operates the XFL football league, which has a Las Vegas franchise, and owns the former Debbie Reynolds Hotel. WWF Entertainment said it will sell the Debbie Reynolds because the property isn't large enough for the company's projected growth. 

 Grocer's shares fall after profit warning

 BOISE, Idaho - Albertson's Inc. shares fell 14 percent after the grocer said for a second time that profit this year will miss forecasts because competition is hurting sales, and an acquisition is forcing it to boost spending. 

 The shares fell $3.69, or 13.95 percent, Wednesday, to close at $22.75. The company, which has 29 stores in Southern Nevada, made the earnings forecast late Tuesday, sending the shares down 16 percent on electronic networks and regional exchanges. In the past two days, the stock has dropped 27 percent, wiping out $3.5 billion in market value. 

 Albertson's, the No. 2 U.S. grocery chain, is struggling with higher labor costs and expenses related to its June 1999 purchase of American Stores Co. for $12.5 billion. Sales have been hurt by competition from Wal-Mart Stores and other chains that compete with lower prices. 

 Debt bullishness helps buoy bonds 

 NEW YORK - Bond prices rose Wednesday as investors' turned bullish on government debt following the Federal Reserve Board's decision to leave interest rates alone. 

 The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 0.41 points, or $4.06 per $1,000 in face value. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 5.72 percent from 5.77 percent late Tuesday. 

 The 30-year Treasury bond rose 0.56 points to yield 5.67 percent down from 5.71 percent Tuesday, Bridge Telerate news service reported. 

 Yields on three-month Treasury bills were 6.27 percent as the discount rose 0.02 percentage points to 6.1 percent from Tuesday. Six- month yields were 6.34 percent, as the discount was unchanged at 6.07 percent from Tuesday. One-year yields were 6.16 percent as the discount rose 0.01 percentage point to 5.87 percent from Tuesday. 

Document lvgs000020010808dw8o00aam




 Caltex Australia 1H Net A$41.1 Million 

234 words
25 August 2000
00:11
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


Caltex Australia Ltd. (A.CTX) - Sydney
Fiscal Six Months Ended June 30:
                             2000           1999
Sales                     A$4.03 bln     A$3.00 bln
Pretax pft                  69.3 mln       60.6 mln
Net pft                     41.1 mln       35.4 mln
Per Share:
  Earnings (Basic)          15.2 cts      13.13 cts
  Earnings (Fully Diluted)  15.2 cts      13.13 cts
  Dividend                  10.0 cts        8.0 cts



2339GMT


 MELBOURNE (Dow Jones)--Caltex Australia Ltd. (A.CTX), an oil refining and marketing company, Friday reported a 16% rise in net profit for the six months to June 30 to A$41.1 million, from A$35.4 million a year before, underpinned by higher margins and oil prices. 

 Managing Director Tony Blevins said profit in the fiscal second half will depend on oil prices and margins, warning that "a drop in crude prices would adversely impact second half earnings." 

 "Excess refining capacity in Asia is likely to continue until the end of next year and domestic competition continues to be vigorous," he said. 

 Caltex said refining margins in the first half averaged US$2.80 a barrel, up from US$1.78 a year before. 

 Caltex Australia is 50%-owned by Caltex Corp., a joint venture between Chevron Corp. (CHV) and Texaco Inc. (TX). 

 -By Andrew Trounson; Dow Jones Newswires; 

 61-3-9614-2664; andrew.trounson@dowjones.com 

Document dji0000020010805dw8o044gq


 Business 
 NYSE Update 

 Christine Romans,  Rhonda Schaffler 
553 words
23 August 2000
14:30
CNNfn: Market Coverage - Morning
MKTM
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 RHONDA SCHAFFLER, CNNfn ANCHOR, MARKET CALL: They`re still losing ground over the big board and now, we`ll check in with Christine and get the latest there.  Christine. 

 CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT:  :  Hi there Rhonda.  Yeah. We`re still losing ground here, near the lowest levels of the session, down 72 points.  A little bit of profit taking, some are saying, after we`ve got the Fed meeting out of the way.  One sector I`m watching over here are the grocers.  Albertsons started this whole thing off with a second quarter profit warning released after the bell yesterday and, in fact, lost some ground in after hour`s trade and now is down more than $8 here in New York Stock Exchange trade.  It closed yesterday at 31.  It`s down about eight, almost nine at some point this morning.  ABS is the ticker symbol.  That is about 31 percent of its value. 

 So, taking a look at how some of those stocks are trading, they are all on the most active list, Albertsons, Safeway and Kroeger all on that list. 

 Albertsons down 3 7/16 from the late trade yesterday, but actually down about seven or eight points from the close here, eight points it looks like.  Thirty-one was the close on the New York Stock Exchange. Safeway down a couple of books.  Kroeger down almost over two.  And Great Atlantic and Pacific T (ph) - this is the company that owns Food Emporium - it is also trading lower.  Fifteen is the level it`s trading right now. 

 Rhonda, USB Warburg coming out and downgrading the whole sector, saying that Albertsons profit warning was perhaps a warning sign for the rest of the sector going forward.  And, as you recall, some of these brokers really liked these stocks earlier this summer, saying they were a safe haven if things got sketchy because of higher interest rates and maybe a stock market pull back. So, watching that group today. 

 SCHAFFLER:  So much for that theory. 

 ROMANS:  Exactly. 

 SCHAFFLER:  Have to find a new safe haven at this point.  All right, Christine, thanks much. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc.  ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by eMediaMillWorks, Inc.  (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.)  No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document mktm000020010808dw8n001yj




 J&J Snack Foods Issues 4th-Quarter, Fiscal-Year  Profit Warning 

405 words
22 August 2000
13:25
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 PENNSAUKEN, N.J. -(Dow Jones)- J&J Snack Foods Corp., which supplies the food-service and retail supermarket industries with snacks, beverages and baked goods, said earnings for the fourth quarter and the full fiscal year will come in below analysts' expectations and year-earlier results. 

 The company cited lower sales of its core food-service products, weakness in its Icee frozen-beverage subsidiary and higher costs and production shortfalls at its Mia frozen-juice-bar plant. 

 At 4 p.m. EDT Tuesday  on the Nasdaq Stock Market, shares of J&J Snack Foods (JJSF) were down $1.02, or 6.5%, at $14.6093. 

 It was the second time that J&J has lowered its expectations for the fiscal year. The company said in May that a voluntary recall of 3.6 million individual Minute Maid Frozen Juice Bars from stores nationwide would hurt earnings for the year. The company said the products it was recalling could have been contaminated with small plastic particles in a faulty packaging process that has since been corrected. The juice bars are made under a license agreement with Coca-Cola Co.'s Minute Maid unit. 

 For the fourth quarter, which ends Sept. 30, J&J Snack Foods expects to report earnings of about $4.4 million, or 50 cents a share. Before the latest company warning, analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial had expected earnings of 72 cents a share. In the year-earlier quarter, J&J Snack Foods earned $6.8 million, or 72 cents a share. 

 For fiscal 2000, the company expects income of about $10.9 million, or $1.20 a share for the fiscal year. Analysts had been looking for profit of $1.45 a share. Before the profit warning in May, they were expecting profit of $1.64 a share. The company earned $14.3 million, or $1.50 a share, for the fiscal year that ended Sept. 25. 

 "We believe that the combination of factors that interrupted our earnings growth for the year are temporary in nature and will be improved for our next fiscal year beginning Oct. 1," Gerald B. Shreiber, president and chief executive officer, said in a statement accompanying the earnings warning. 

 (Compiled from Dow Jones Newswires and other sources) 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020020330dw8m01fth




 Business Brief -- LUBY'S INC.: Fourth-Quarter Net Income Will Be Below Expectations 

170 words
21 August 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
B4
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Luby's Inc., San Antonio, said its earnings for the fiscal fourth quarter ending Aug. 31 will be well below expectations, citing declining same-store sales, higher food and labor costs and a charge related to store closings. The cafeteria-style restaurant chain said it expects profit, excluding charges, to be between one cent a share and five cents a share. A survey of analysts by First Call/Thomson Financial had estimated earnings of 22 cents a share. The company said it will take a charge of about $12 million to $15 million in the quarter to close 15 underperforming restaurants. Luby's partially blamed lower sales and higher costs on the expense of a new promotion that offers a greater variety of larger-size entrees at a steep discount. Luby's released its warning after regular trading Friday. In 4 p.m. New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Luby's shares rose 6 cents to $8. 

Document j000000020010807dw8l00mhp




 Software Firm Mercator Restates Results; New Finance Chief Quits 

451 words
21 August 2000
23:11
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 WILTON, Conn. -(Dow Jones)- Mercator Software Inc., which last month hired a new chief financial officer, late Monday said the new CFO resigned and the company revised results for the first and second quarters because of unreported expenses of about $2.4 million. 

 Chief Financial Officer Kevin McKay resigned and the company fired Ira Gerard, a vice president for finance. The firm also relieved its controller of duties. Mr. McKay was a former chief executive of SAP AG's U.S. operations. McKay replaced Gerard as CFO. The company last month said Mr. Gerhard would resign for health reasons. 

 Mercator restated its second-quarter net loss to $17.8 million, or 61 cents a share, from the previously reported $16 million, or 55 cents a share. Excluding non-cash expenses, the company said it would have earned two cents a share in the second quarter, not the four cents a share it reported July 21. The firm issues a profit warning on July 14. 

 The company restated its first-quarter net loss to $11.5 million, or 41 cents a share, from $9.88 million, or 35 cents a share, it reported earlier this year. Excluding non-cash expenses, the company said it would have earned three cents a share not the six cents a share previously reported. 

 Shares of Mercator (MCTR) settled on the Nasdaq Stock Market at $16.81, up 94 cents, or 5.9%, at 4 p.m. EDT Monday. The stock plunged nearly 60% after the July 14 warning and nearly 50% last Wednesday after Mercator delayed a second-quarter filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The stock reached $149.88 on March 7. 

 In response to the accounting errors, Mercator took several actions to strengthen finance operations, controls and oversight, including naming James P. Schadt chairman -- a new position. Schadt is also chairman of Dailey Capital Management, a private equity fund manager. Mercator said it plans to name an interim chief financial officer and an interim controller soon, and has hired Spencer Stuart to help in the search for full-time replacements. Mercator also engaged its outside accountants to help review its finance and operating controls. 

 The firm makes enterprise application integrations, or EAI, software that allows businesses to integrate different types of systems and applications. EAI software essentially allows different kinds of software to talk to each other. Different EAI companies take different approaches to solving problems, but most provide a central translator that knows about the inner workings of each application program a company runs. 

 (Compiled from Dow Jones Newswires and other sources) 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020020330dw8l01fpm




 Michelin Shares Up On Hopes of Snatching US Pole Position 

409 words
21 August 2000
16:34
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 PARIS -(Dow Jones)- Investors rediscovered their appetite for shares in Michelin (F.MIC) Monday as the tire maker moved into pole position to grab a bigger share of the U.S. market. 

 At 1525 GMT, the shares were up EUR0.39, or 1.1%, at EUR34.40 after analysts said car makers such as Ford Motor Co. (F), Honda and Toyota may be considering switching away from Bridgestone as supplier. 

 Michelin shares slumped to a 12-month closing low of EUR31.60 as recently as Aug. 8 after a warning that first-half operating profit would not match year-earlier figures. 

 A Michelin spokeswoman Monday declined to comment on the U.S. market position, saying only: "We are working with Firestone to satisfy consumers' needs." 

 The company said Friday that its plants were "working round the clock" to replace the 6.5 million tires recalled by Bridgestone/Firestone Inc. Aug. 9 after an analysis suggested they were prone to tread separation at high speeds. 

 Most of the recalled tires were installed on Ford trucks and sport utility vehicles. 

 "Ford is not happy with Firestone over this," said Paris-based Deutsche Equities analyst Gaetan Toulemonde. 

 "Bridgestone originally wanted to replace the tires over a year, but Ford insisted it be done within six months," Toulemonde said. "Apart from using Michelin tires in the short term, Ford is likely to be considering its supply options in the mid-term." 

 Honda and Toyota are among other makers of SUVs thought to be monitoring the situation closely, said Didier Orand, analyst at Paris brokerage Wargny. 

 "Through the Goodrich and Uniroyal brands it operates in the U.S., Michelin is well placed to increase its market share from 17%-18%," Orand said. "Car makers are bound to be researching other options." 

 Bridgestone/Firestone's share of the U.S. market is around 20%. 

 The Japanese-based tire company Friday formally approved Michelin, along with Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. and General Tire Inc., to provide tires to consumers affected by the recall with the promise of a Firestone reimbursement of up to $100 a tire. 

 Michelin said Friday that its Greenville, S.C.-based North American operation, which accounted for 11.5% of consolidated 1999 revenues of EUR13.76 billion, had stepped up production of 15-inch tires by 250%. 

 -By Kenneth Maxwell, Dow Jones Newswires; 331-4017-1740; kenneth.maxwell.@dowjones.com 

Document dji0000020010805dw8l0425b


 TRAVEL 
 Archway museum spans busy transcontinental highway In central Nebraska, a $60 million 'fort' 

 Joe Ruff, Associated Press 
759 words
20 August 2000
The Florida Times-Union
XFTU
CITY
E-5
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 KEARNEY, Neb.  -- A large yellow and black sign warns westbound travelers on one of the nation's busiest transcontinental highways: "MONUMENT AHEAD. DO NOT PARK. DO NOT SLOW DOWN."      Rounding a curve on Interstate 80 in the middle of central Nebraska's flat and empty prairie, travelers are confronted with an eight-story-high covered bridge spanning the four-lane highway.      Built to look like a wooden fort, the Great Platte River Road Archway Monument pays tribute to the Oregon, Mormon and California trails and the other historic routes that cross the area.      "It gets your attention," said Kearney Mayor Pete Kotsiopulos, who likes what the new tourist draw promises to reap for the restaurants, hotels and shops in his city, just 2 miles west of the archway.      The $60 million archway and its series of multi-media exhibits opened to visitors June 9, and -- as promised by its creators -- it's pulling motorists off the highway and into its halls. 

       Believed to be the nation's only historical monument built over an interstate highway, it was the brainchild of 95-year-old former Gov. Frank Morrison of McCook. Morrison, who was Nebraska's governor from 1961 to 1967, thought too many people were zipping across Nebraska without appreciating the area's history as a gateway to the West.      "I was determined to build a monument to these trails," said Morrison, who saw the monument dedicated by Gov. Mike Johanns and more than 600 others. The monument was paid for with revenue bonds and is operated by a non- profit foundation formed to emphasize its educational mission. While mulling over the idea for decades, Morrison started work on the project five years ago with Omaha tourism developer J. Greg Smith, who suggested an archway across the interstate.      "It catches attention," Morrison said.      It also has caught some flak. With a consultant and an architect who had both worked for Walt Disney Co. enlisted to design the archway, critics were concerned it would be more of a fun park than a monument.      Air space had to be leased to build the monument that rises 80 feet into the air, and its size and placement over the highway had critics referring to it as a tacky tourist trap.      The spectacle of the archway's construction attracted gawkers who made travel dangerous, prompting the warning signs and increased traffic fines for stopping along the interstate. A Nebraska woman was killed in September when the car she was in slowed down to take pictures and a semi-trailer truck hit the car from behind.      Opposed to the archway's development three years ago, state Sen. Chris Beutler of Lincoln said then that he did not want "a theme park design to represent Nebraska history."      After recently touring the archway, Beutler would only say that he liked its exhibits.      "The story was told in a good and exciting way," Beutler said.      Archway visitors pay $7.50 for adults, $6 for children. They are handed headphones before riding up a three-story escalator that carries them straight through a huge screen showing a movie of pioneers traveling in covered wagons.      Lifelike mannequins wearing buckskin and other period costumes tell their story through the headphones, which are activated by infrared sensors as visitors walk past the exhibits. Painstakingly painted murals and video displays detail prairie thunderstorms, a buffalo stampede, wagon trains and highway motels.      The exhibits tell of the Old West trails, the Pony Express, the transcontinental railroad, the interstate highway system and the nation's first cross-country fiber optic cable.      All converged at Kearney, a city of 24,000 people along the Platte River that was founded around Fort Kearny, a military post, from 1848 to 1871.      A snowstorm and the deaths of pioneers depicted in the archway's Old West trails exhibits caught Edwina Hamersky's attention.      "I didn't realize the hardship that they might have," said Hamersky, 75, of Tecumseh, Kan., who toured the monument with her 65-year-old husband, Vic.      Most archway visitors can spend from 30 minutes to two hours viewing the exhibits. More than 6 million cars and trucks -- by some estimates about 13 million people -- travel over this stretch of Interstate 80 every year. A comparable stretch of Interstate 70 in Kansas sees about 4 million vehicles; South Dakota's Interstate 90 sees 2 million vehicles.      Archway managers hope to attract about 1 million visitors each year. 

 PHOTO 

Document xftu000020010814dw8k00j10




 Economy 
 UAL Further Lowers Quarterly Profit Estimate 

 By Susan Carey 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
699 words
18 August 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
A2
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 CHICAGO -- In another acknowledgement that it is in the throes of operational turmoil, UAL Corp. issued a second profit warning about its third-quarter results. 

 The United Airlines parent expects third-quarter profit to be lower than the range of $2.60 to $3.20 a fully distributed share, guidance it gave in mid-July to warn investors down from rosier projections. 

 But Jim Goodwin, chairman and chief executive, declined yesterday to be more specific, saying uncertainties surrounding labor relations, crew-related issues and weather "preclude us from confidently projecting results at this point for the quarter or the full year." 

 The move, though widely expected on Wall Street, sent UAL shares down $1, or 2%, to $48.50. The shares' 52-week low is $45.75. 

 Separately, indicating that some of United's problems are industrywide, Transportation Secretary Rodney Slater has called the chiefs of all the big airlines, along with airport executives and airline union leaders, to a meeting in Washington on Monday to discuss the delays and cancellations that have made this summer a misery for air travelers. Mr. Slater last week came to Chicago and had separate meetings with Mr. Goodwin and the ALPA chief in a bid to persuade them to resolve their dispute. 

 For UAL, analysts began downgrading earnings estimates last week, citing the high numbers of flight cancellations -- and resulting revenue shortfall -- at the world's largest airline. United has blamed some of its 10,500 pilots for refusing to fly overtime and for making unnecessary sick calls, accusations the pilots union denies. The two sides are in contract negotiations. 

 After yesterday's profit warning, several analysts revised their estimates. 

 PaineWebber Inc.'s Sam Buttrick, who last week lowered his forecast to $2.60 a share from $3.35, yesterday came down to $1.90 a share. Julius Maldutis of CIBC World Markets chopped his estimate to $1.40 a share from $2.70. He was at $3.25 a share last week. Salomon Smith Barney's Brian Harris, who had been at $2.95 a share since July, lopped the figure to $2.10. 

 In 1999's third quarter, on a fully distributed basis, UAL earned $456 million, or $3.75 a share, on revenue of $4.85 billion. Before yesterday's profit warning, the consensus estimate for this year's third-quarter profit by analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial was $2.75 a fully distributed share. 

 Mr. Goodwin said booking levels have fallen since early this month, after a particularly bad patch when United was forced to cancel between 180 and 360 flights a day at the last minute, owing to bad weather, mechanical problems, air-traffic control delays and a shortage of pilots. 

 "While our operating performance has improved somewhat, the reduced booking levels continue and as a result, revenues are not as strong as we had previously anticipated," Mr. Goodwin said. 

 In recent days, cancellations have fallen to 100 to 135 a day, still outlandishly bad by industry standards. But yesterday, hit by thunderstorms in Chicago, United had scrubbed 230 flights by midafternoon. In the first two weeks of August, United canceled 10% of its nearly 2,400 daily flights at the last minute. Of those that operated, only 36% arrived on time. 

 To mend fences with its most frequent customers, United yesterday as expected said it will boost the mileage bonuses it awards to three elite-status groups in its Mileage Plus frequent-flier plan. The extra miles will be doled out retroactively from May 1 and for the rest of this year. The company also said it will waive the $75-per-ticket fee for changing travel dates for customers traveling before Sept. 30 whose outbound flights are delayed or canceled. It also will allow customers traveling before that date to postpone their trips without paying that fee. 

 Contract negotiations with the Air Line Pilots Association continued yesterday at a hotel in suburban Chicago. Only a few significant economic issues remain on the table and the union has said it wants a tentative agreement by Sept. 1. 

Document j000000020010807dw8i00mbj




News and Features
Tech Wreck 2: the sequel

BY BRIAN HALE   
1,459 words
18 August 2000
BRW
BRW
Late
42
English
Copyright 2000. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.   

STOCKMARKET

A FALL IN ONLINE RETAIL SALES - DESPITE INCREASED OVERALL SPENDING - HAS FUELLED U.S INVESTORS' FEARS OF ANOTHER TECH STOCK CRASH

Technology stock slumps have been a biannual event in United States sharemarkets for years, but serious questions are being asked as Nasdaq struggles through this year's second bout of carnage. The questions are rebounding around the world because sharemarkets everywhere slavishly followed New York's tech-led burst upwards earlier - and these days, wherever Nasdaq goes, bourses from Sydney to Frankfurt are sure to follow.

One reason that bourses everywhere follow Nasdaq's lead is that the correlation between sectoral rotation in the US and around the world has intensified markedly over the past two years. Goldman Sachs strategist Neil Williams says sectors have become "more important than countries in driving global share price performance" and, along with global as well as local market influences, now represent almost half the force driving stocks (with company-specific factors representing the other half).

Merrill Lynch's chief investment strategist, David Bowers, says that although international markets do not have the deep, mature technology sector of the US, they have compensated for their lack of breadth and depth by viewing telecommunications and media stocks as "new economy" proxies. These markets also have their own internet stocks, local equivalents of the US portal and business-to-consumer (B2C) e-commerce stocks, which have mirrored the rises and falls in the US markets - although they are often pale versions of their US counterparts.

Increasingly, international investors have also come to regard the Nasdaq market as a proxy for their own extremely limited technology sectors. This has burdened their local markets with needless bouts of negative sentiment - and not just when the Nasdaq indexes are diving because of falls by US internet stocks. Dips can follow share price plunges for semiconductor companies, personal computer makers, networkers - companies that provide hardware and software for the internet - server and enterprise software providers, optical system and component makers, software companies, and a host of companies in other technology sub-sectors.

In the debate about the future of technology stocks, few agree about anything, except on the bleak outlook for B2C stocks. The reasons the B2C bubble burst are now well known: fast cash-burn rates, weak business plans, poor customer servicing, and sagging sales. Researchers estimate that B2C online retail activity in the US fell 13.2% to $US7.1 billion in the second quarter of 2000, despite a 9.2% rise in total retail activity to $US817 billion in the same quarter, according to the US Department of Commerce.

Wall Street analysts had expected internet retail sales to rise consistently, quarter over quarter, for years as new consumers and more retail sales went online, but the

recent decline - combined with the other negative factors overhanging the sector - convinced investors that the value of most B2C stocks was grossly inflated. That view has been reinforced by a growing belief that the US economy is slowing. According to BizRate.com, 79% of the $US8.15 billion spent online in the first quarter of 2000 was in just three categories - computer goods, gifts/flowers, and entertainment - all non-essential items whose sales are likely to fall in any economic slowdown.

This grim reality has afflicted even Henry Blodget, Merrill Lynch's star internet analyst and, with Morgan Stanley Dean Witter's Mary Meeker, one of the two biggest boosters of internet stocks in the bubble days. In early August, Blodget downgraded half of the companies whose stocks he covers, saying "we are resetting the investment ratings for our internet universe". It seemed a little late: eBay, the best performer among his downgrades, had already tumbled 60% from its high, while the worst, Pets.com, was down more than 90%. (Yahoo, which remained a "strong buy", had almost halved in value).

But Blodget blamed the "don't judge new-economy stocks with traditional valuation methods" mantra that was endemic on Wall Street during the bubble (when each of the large brokers/investment banks grossed an estimated $US500 million in underwriting fees). "We should have been more rigorous before many stocks fell 90%," he says. "Some of our ratings were probably higher than they should have been."

The question now being asked by many people is whether the same is true of technology stocks generally. Worries that e-commerce growth may not meet expectations because the most-affluent demographic groups are already online have been echoed by similar worries about personal computer makers.

PC sales in the second quarter slowed dramatically in the US and Europe - to their lowest level, even though Microsoft not so long ago talked about "awesome" demand - and the worries spilled over to the share prices of semiconductor companies and those that make chip-making equipment for them, who themselves were both already suffering from fears about peaking chip demand.

Then there are the worries about companies and sectors that are likely to be hurt by the speed of technological change or the switch from a PC-centred world to a wireless phone-centred world. All of these concerns translate into further worries about the maintenance of continued high levels of revenue and earnings growth for technology stocks that are priced for perfect performance.

Those worries underpinned April's "tech wreck". Although some tried to blame it on US Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan and interest rate worries, the wreck began with a 10% skid in the Nasdaq's composite index in three sessions after portfolio managers finished their end-of-first-quarter window-dressing. At the same time, retail investors were troubled by a few things, such as Goldman Sachs' ever-bullish strategist Abby Joseph Cohen's suggestion that a slight pull-back from technology stocks might be in order.

When the skid ended in mid-April with the biggest single-day points drop in history for the indexes (355.49 points, or 9.7%, for the Nasdaq composite index and 617.78 points, or 5.6%, for the Dow Jones Industrial Average), there was a similar temptation to blame it on that same day in April's report of March's steeper-than-expected 0.7% rise in CPI. Technology market experts knew better. They had watched share prices falling across the board for two years, with huge gains by a handful of technology stocks keeping the indexes soaring and obscuring the fact that most shares had slumped into a bear market.

Some of the large technology stocks have bounced since April. But by the first week

of August, the Nasdaq composite index was still down 45.4% compared to its level in April before the wreck. Not everyone is bullish about the big, index-moving stocks, despite the generally booming quarterly profit reporting season that just ended. Chuck Hill, research director at corporate earnings-monitor First Call, points out that there were the same number of warnings about future earnings this time around, but more of them came from big companies and they devastated share prices. Nokia's share price fell 25% after a warning of a sluggish third-quarter. After a similar warningDell Computer Corporation's shares fell another 5%, taking their fall from their 52-week highs earlier in the year to 32%.

Other big technology companies are generating huge profits, but with high price/earnings ratios there is little room for error in their share prices. J. P. Morgan's recommended portfolio is underweight technology stocks. Salomon Smith Barney strategist John Manley says "risks to the technology and communications sectors seems to be mounting, although their longer-term growth prospects appear strong". Morgan Stanley Dean Witter's Barton Biggs recently criticised fund managers for thinking that the latest decline in big-cap technology stocks was "just another buying opportunity", because he thought that "it may well be the beginning of a new leg down in the tech bear market".

If Biggs is right, it could be a boon for the Australian sharemarket. He thinks that the real issue is not so much a tech wreck as a shift back from growth to value stocks. Most of the bear market in many of the old-economy stocks is pretty much complete in the US and elsewhere - and they could look even cheaper if the tech wreck turns into a massive tech freeway pile-up that drags the key US indexes lower.

HIGH-TECH HORRORS

* Many US business-to-consumer e-commerce stocks have tumbled more than 90% this year.

* Even some tech sector leaders are down 70%.

* About 40 internet companies have gone belly-up since January.

* More than 80 initial public offerings have been postponed, possibly forever.

Document BRW0000020111227dw8i000nk


Newscast: Business news and stock report   

531 words
18 August 2000
CBS News: Morning News
CBSM
English
(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

JULIE CHEN, anchor:   

Stock prices were modestly higher on Wall Street.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Dow Jones Industrials   

11,055.64 up 47.25   

Volume: 922,400,000   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

CHEN: The Dow gained 47 points on Thursday, ending at 11,055.   

(Graphic on screen)   

NASDAQ   

3,940.87 up 79.67   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

CHEN: The NASDAQ rose 79 points, finishing at 3,940.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Tokyo Nikkei Average   

16,280.49 up 119.46   

Change: up 0.74%   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

CHEN: And in Tokyo, the Nikkei index was up about 3/4 of 1 percent overnight.   

Financial and technology issues provided some of the lift to stock prices. CBS MarketWatch analyst Alexis Christoforous has that.   

ALEXIS CHRISTOFOROUS reporting:   

The NASDAQ made it five winning days in a row. And once again, it was the computer chip stocks that led the charge.   

Shares of  Intel rocketed 3 percent, closing at 70 1/16th. An analyst on Wall Street raised his earnings estimates for the computer chip giant.   

Investors are also growing more confident that Alan Greenspan and company will leave interest rates alone at next week's meeting. That sent financial stocks like  J.P. Morgan and  Citigroup skyward.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Dow Winners   

JP Morgan (JPM)  Citigroup (C)   

2 9/16 1 9/16 to to 145 74 3/4   

CHRISTOFOROUS: But Wall Street was not kind to  Hewlett-Packard.

(Graphic on screen)   

Hewlett-Packard (HWP)   

down 3 1/8 to 108 1/2   

CHRISTOFOROUS: That stock fell more than $3 despite very strong earnings and a 2-for-1 stock split announcement. Analysts said that report wasn't as good as it seemed and some weren't satisfied with  Hewlett-Packard's sales numbers in its server division.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Stock Turbulence   

UAL Corp (UAL) Delta (DAL) Continental (CAL)   

5/8 1 5/16 1/14 to to to 48 7/8 49 9/16 49 13/16   

CHRISTOFOROUS: Airline stocks were stuck at the gate after another profit warning from  United Airlines' parent company. UAL said earnings will miss the mark because of thousands of flight cancellations due to labor problems with its pilots and bad weather.   

Agilent is a stock you'll want to watch. After the bell, the  Hewlett-Packard spin-off said profit rose an unexpected 15 percent.   

Oil continues to be the big story on Wall Street. The price of heating oil shot up to a seven-month high. Investors believe inventories may be too low to be replenished in time for the winter heating season.   

But there is some good news if you're in the market to buy a home. The rate on a 30-year mortgage is back below 8 percent. It now stands at 7.96 percent. That's down from 8.04 percent a week ago. At the NASDAQ Marketsite, I'm Alexis Christoforous, CBS MarketWatch.   

CHEN: For more on the markets, click on cbs.marketwatch.com.   

Coming up on the CBS MORNING NEWS--the Friday weather. And in sports, Jack and Tiger pair together in competition for the first time as the PGA Championship gets under way.   

(Announcements)   

Document CBSM000020070818dw8i0028s




 Report on Business: The Wall Street Journal 
 United issues second  profit warning  Weather, labour woes force airline to lower third-quarter expectations 

 SUSAN CAREY 
Wall Street Journal
629 words
18 August 2000
The Globe and Mail
GLOB
Metro
B6
English
 All material copyright Thomson Canada Limited or its licensors. All rights reserved. 

 Chicago -- In another acknowledgment that it is in the throes of operational turmoil, UAL Corp. issued a second profit warning about its third-quarter results. 

 The United Airlines parent expects third-quarter profit to be lower than the range of $2.60 (U.S.) to $3.20 a fully distributed share, guidance it gave in mid-July to warn investors down from rosier projections. 

 But Jim Goodwin, chairman and chief executive officer, declined yesterday to be more specific, saying uncertainties surrounding labour relations, crew-related issues and weather "preclude us from confidently projecting results at this point for the quarter or the full year." 

 The move, though widely expected on Wall Street, sent UAL shares down 2.1 per cent, or $1.06, to $48.44 each. The stock's 52-week low is $45.75. 

 Separately, indicating that some of United's problems are industrywide, U.S. Transportation Secretary Rodney Slater has called the chiefs of all the big airlines, along with airport executives and airline union leaders, to a meeting in Washington on Monday to discuss the delays and cancellations that have made this summer a misery for air travelers. Last week, Mr. Slater came to Chicago and had separate meetings with Mr. Goodwin and the chief of the Air Line Pilots Association in a bid to persuade them to resolve their dispute. 

 For UAL, analysts began downgrading earnings estimates last week, citing the high numbers of flight cancellations -- and resulting revenue shortfall -- at the world's largest airline. United has blamed some of its 10,500 pilots for refusing to fly overtime and for making unnecessary sick calls, accusations the pilots union denies. The two sides are in contract negotiations. 

 After yesterday's profit warning, several analysts revised their estimates. PaineWebber Inc.'s Sam Buttrick, who last week lowered his forecast to $2.60 a share from $3.35, came down yesterday to $1.90 a share. Julius Maldutis of CIBC World Markets chopped his estimate to $1.40 a share from $2.70. He was at $3.25 a share last week. Salomon Smith Barney's Brian Harris, who had been at $2.95 a share since July, lopped the figure to $2.10. 

 In 1999's third quarter, on a fully distributed basis, UAL earned $456-million, or $3.75 a share, on revenue of $4.85-billion. Before yesterday's profit warning, the consensus estimate for this year's third-quarter profit by analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial was $2.75 a fully distributed share. 

 Mr. Goodwin said booking levels have fallen since early this month, after a particularly bad patch when United was forced to cancel between 180 and 360 flights a day at the last minute, owing to bad weather, mechanical problems, air traffic control delays and a shortage of pilots. 

 "While our operating performance has improved somewhat, the reduced booking levels continue and as a result, revenues are not as strong as we had previously anticipated," Mr. Goodwin said. 

 In recent days, cancellations have fallen to 100 to 135 a day, still outlandishly bad by industry standards. But yesterday, hit by thunderstorms in Chicago, United had scrubbed 230 flights by midafternoon. In the first two weeks of August, United canceled 10 per cent of its nearly 2,400 daily flights at the last minute. Of those that operated, only 36 per cent arrived on time. 

 Contract negotiations with the ALPA continued yesterday at a hotel in suburban Chicago. Only a few significant economic issues remain on the table and the union has said it wants a tentative agreement by Sept. 1. 

Document glob000020010806dw8i013y0




 Construction-Equipment Maker CMI Posts 2nd Quarter Loss 

301 words
17 August 2000
15:00
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 OKLAHOMA CITY -(Dow Jones)- Shares of construction-equipment maker CMI Corp. fell sharply Thursday after the company posted a second-quarter loss, amid continued exploration of its cost-cutting options. 

 The company also said that it is out of compliance with borrowing covenants on its senior debt and its revolving-credit facility. CMI has met with its lenders and expects to implement a revised loan agreement within 90 to 120 days. 

 In June, the beleagured Oklahoma City company issued a profit warning for the second quarter, citing poor cost controls. 

 CMI (CMI) reported a net loss of $8.3 million, or 38 cents a diluted share, compared with net income of $5.2 million, or 24 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue fell 10% to $63.9 million from $70.8 million. 

 The latest results included a $6.7 million charge on product sales as well as a $2.9 million charge from consulting services, research and development, and employee severance costs. The company didn't provide results excluding charges. 

 During the quarter, Bill Swisher resumed his role as CMI's chief executive officer. Mr. Swisher, who is CMI's founder, former CEO and a major shareholder, initiated an "extensive" review of the company's operations, which revealed rising costs and prompted CMI to reduce overhead expenses by more than $8 million. 

 As part of the review, CMI restated its first-quarter earnings to a loss of about $1 million, or five cents a diluted share, compared with a previously reported profit of $1 million, or five cents a diluted share. 

 CMI said Thursday that it anticipates improved results in the second half. 

 (Compiled from Dow Jones Newswires and other sources) 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dw8h01eym




 Tire Prices Seen Staying Steady Despite Firestone Recall 

 By Jocelyn Parker 
547 words
17 August 2000
20:19
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES 

 DETROIT -(Dow Jones)- Consumers can breathe a sigh of relief. 

 Analysts say overall tire prices probably won't rise dramatically in light of the massive recall by Bridgestone/Firestone, a unit of Japan's Bridgestone Corp. (J.BDT). 

 "You have to believe that tire makers would restrain prices," said Mary Anne Sudol, an analyst with Dresdner Kleinwort Benson. "From a public relations standpoint, they don't want to seem as though they are profiting from the consumers' misfortunes." 

 Last week, Firestone recalled 6.5 million of its Radial ATX, ATX II and Wilderness AT tires because of reports of accidents attributed to the tread peeling off the tires. On Tuesday, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration raised to 62 from 46 the number of deaths it believes are linked to the recalled Firestone tires. 

 The faulty tires were installed primarily on Ford Motor Co's (F) popular Explorer sport-utility and other light trucks. 

 So far, tire makers industry-wide have been working quickly to ramp up production for tires because of Bridgestone's inability to produce replacements as quickly as consumers need them. To meet demand, some say they will more than double production in coming months of models that are considered alternatives for the recalled tires. 

 Usually, skimpy supply and vast demand would mean price increases, but analysts say tire makers are more concerned about meeting consumers' needs quickly. In a conference call this week, John Lampe, executive vice president of Bridgestone/Firestone, said the tires being recalled are around $100 a tire. 

 "Because of the deaths and tragedies involved, a dramatic increase would come off as pretty negative," Sudol added. 

 Efraim Levy, an analyst with S&P Equity Group, agrees. 

 "Tire makers have to be careful not to take advantage of consumers," Levy said. 

 Katharina Konowalski, spokeswoman for Continental AG's (G.CGU) General Tire Inc., said the company probably won't increase prices due to the recall. 

 "We are going to keep our prices in line with the market," Konowalski said. 

 Other tire makers haven't totally ruled out raising prices. Lately, tire makers have been faced with series of financial issues, including rising raw material costs and the strength of the dollar against the euro. 

 Some tire makers have tried to implement price increases in past months to offset those costs, but have been unsuccessful because every tire maker wasn't making price increases at the same time. In fact, Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. (GT) issued a profit warning for the second quarter in June because of its failed attempts to raise prices in the spring. 

 Goodyear declined comment on whether prices would go up or remain the same. But spokesman Chuck Sinclair said, "pricing is a result of product supply and demand." 

 Cooper Tire & Rubber Co. (CTB) also declined comment on pricing. 

 Even Sudol admits that the raw material and euro issues could drive up prices slightly. But that has been something that's been long overdue and isn't linked to the recall. 

 "If tire makers want to raise prices to the extent to recoup raw material costs, that's fine," Sudol said. 

 -By Jocelyn Parker; Dow Jones Newswires 313-963-7810; 

Document dj00000020010805dw8h037x2




 WRAP: UAL Lowers Profit View Amid Bookings Decline 

392 words
17 August 2000
16:29
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   WSJ.com Roundup



CHICAGO -(Dow Jones)- UAL Corp. (UAL) lowered its earnings target for
the third quarter Thursday. The parent of United Airlines said a
drop-off in booking levels will take a bigger-than-expected bite out of
profit for the period.


 The Chicago-based holding company announced that it expects third-quarter earnings will fall short of the $2.60-a-share to $3.20-a-share range it announced previously. 

 An increase in flight cancellations in early August - the reason UAL gave for lowering its earnings target - is one of a number of problems the company has faced recently. Volatile weather, air-traffic-control delays and job actions by some of its own pilots and mechanics also have contributed to UAL's poor operations this summer. 

 UAL issued the profit warning on the same day the airline is expected to apologize to its elite-status frequent fliers for delayed and canceled flights by awarding them bonus miles for the rest of the year. 

 Although booking patterns remained strong through early August despite poor operating performance, booking levels have since fallen on adverse publicity surrounding the cancellations that occurred in early August, James E. Goodwin, chairman and chief executive, said in a prepared statement. "While our operating performance has improved somewhat, the reduced booking levels continue, and as a result, revenues are not as strong as we had previously anticipated." 

 "Furthermore, the uncertainty surrounding the variable nature of factors affecting the situation, such as labor relations, crew-related issues and weather, preclude us from confidently projecting results at this point for the quarter or the full year," he added. 

 Thursday's report may make analysts even more pessimistic about the company's prospects. Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial had expected UAL to earn $2.75 a share in the third quarter. 

 Earlier this month, First Call reduced the $2.75-a-share figure from $3.03, after UAL filed papers with the Securities and Exchange Commission reiterating the carrier's third-quarter earnings guidance of profit in the range of $2.60 to $3.20 a diluted share. United is in contract talks with its pilots' and mechanics' unions. It has said it is making progress with both groups, but the pilots said talks are continuing at a slow pace. 

Document dj00000020010805dw8h037se




 Tire Makers Deal With Recall Aftermath >F GT J.BDT 

 By Jocelyn Parker 
1,033 words
17 August 2000
02:55
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES 

 DETROIT -(Dow Jones)- Ringing phones, busy Web sites, round-the-clock production. 

 If Bridgestone Corp.'s (J.BDT) Bridgestone/Firestone Inc. and Ford Motor Co. (F) think they have been scrambling to meet customers' tire needs, tire makers say they should take a look at their schedules. 

 Tire makers say they are working vigorously to ramp up production to accommodate customers - which include dealers, auto makers and retailers - that want replacements for recalled Bridgestone/Firestone Inc. tires. 

 Last week, Firestone recalled 6.5 million of its P235/75R15 Radial ATX, Radial ATX II and Wilderness AT tires because of reports of accidents attributed to the tread peeling off the tires. On Tuesday, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration raised to 62 the number of deaths it believes are linked to the recalled Firestone tires. Last week, the agency said it was investigating 46 deaths related to the tires. 

 The faulty tires were installed primarily on Ford's popular Explorer sport-utility vehicle and other light trucks. 

 Both Bridgestone and Ford said they will use rival tires, given Bridgestone's inability to produce replacement tires as quickly as consumers need them. 

 Already, some tire makers have committed to boost their tire production schedules tremendously to replace recalled tires. Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. (GT) said Wednesday that it will increase its production five-fold by the end of September. Continental AG's (G.CGU) General Tire Inc. said it will increase production by 100% by the end of August. And Michelin North America Inc. said it has already increased its production by 225% for those tires that are considered alternatives for the recalled tires. 

 While those levels may seem astounding, it's still not enough to meet consumer demand, analysts and tire makers say. Although 6.5 million makes up a small percentage of the 822 million tires on U.S. roads, the fact that consumers want them all at once have proven to be draining for tire makers. Some tire makers say the recall has cleared out their inventories for tires that would replace recalled Firestone tires. 

 For instance, Michelin spokesman Michael Fanning said 900,000 tires have been back ordered. 

 "We want to supply to customers as quickly as possible and we're working round-the-clock, seven days a week to do that," said Chuck Sinclair, a Goodyear Spokesman. "We know consumers want to get the recalled tires off of their cars, but the number of orders have outsourced any tire makers' supply." 

 Sinclair said tire orders on the day of the recall surged 2500%. He declined comment on the actual number of orders, but he said the number of tire orders is in the "hundreds of thousands." 

 "We started gearing up production the first part of August," Sinclair said. "We were aware of the potential for the demand for the tires. I don't think any tire company was well prepared for the recall because that would mean too much inventory, but I think we were well-prepared to respond." 

 So far, Goodyear hasn't hired additional employees to meet demand. To quell confusion, Goodyear has established a toll-free number for consumers and has put tire recall information on its Web site. 

 Other tire makers have followed in lock step. Michelin also has a toll-free number and recall Web site link for consumers seeking tire advice. Continental will establish a hotline and Web link by the end of this week, said Katharina Konowalski, a Continental spokeswoman. 


None of the tire makers could quantify how much it would take to ramp
up production or set up help links and numbers for consumers.
   Every Cloud Has A Silver Lining



Analysts say there's good news in store for the tire makers that are
making replacements for the recalled tires.



Tire makers will likely be able to increase their profit margins in
coming quarters because they'll be supplying more to the replacement
parts market, which yields higher returns than supplying to the auto
makers. Consumers will pay more for tires than penny-pinching auto
makers, said Efraim Levy, an analyst with S&P Equity Group.



"Other tire makers will benefit from the situation," Levy said."
Consumers are going into tire stores and dealers wanting something
that's not Firestone. Every one gets a piece."



Levy said the recall will especially benefit Goodyear Tire given some
of the financial woes the company has had in the past couple quarters.



"This will give Goodyear an opportunity to help profitability in the
second half of the year and increase production," Levy said.



In June, the company issued a profit warning for the second quarter
because of an unsuccessful attempt to raise prices in the spring to
offset rising raw material costs. The company also thought the strength
of the dollar against the Euro would impact the bottom line. In the
second quarter of 2000, Goodyear earned 9% less than the same period a
year earlier.



At that time analysts predicted that Goodyear would fall well short of
year-end earnings estimates of $1.96 a share.



However, Levy said Goodyear will benefit financially from the recall
for the full year. Although he lowered his full-year earnings estimate
for Goodyear to $1.67 from $1.76, he said his estimate would have been
lower without the increased business from the Firestone recall. Levy
said he couldn't quantify how much lower his Goodyear estimate would be
without the recall.



"The increased business wasn't enough to totally offset rising raw
material costs and the Euro issue," Levy said.



Some analysts aren't as optimistic.



"I think the benefit will be narrow in scope for tire makers," said
Nicholas Lobaccaro, an auto analyst with Lehman Brothers. "And I don't
think it will materially change the overall fortunes for Goodyear. It
will not be a panacea."



Benefit or not, analysts say tire makers should be careful not to take
too much of an advantage of the recall situation.



"You never know when the tables will turn," Levy said.



-Jocelyn Parker; Dow Jones Newswires; 313-963-7810


Document dj00000020010805dw8h037ma




 Deere  Profit  Surges, but Firm's  Warning  About Farm Recession Sends Stock Down 

 By Scott Kilman 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
563 words
16 August 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
A4
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Deere & Co. said its fiscal third-quarter profit more than doubled from last year's deeply depressed results. 

 The world's biggest maker of farm equipment beat Wall Street expectations. But Deere stock fell 10% after management warned that the U.S. farm recession will probably linger into next year, keeping a lid on sales by the farm-equipment industry. 

 In New York Stock Exchange composite trading at 4 p.m., Deere fell $3.75 to $33.25. 

 Deere said it earned $172.4 million, or 72 cents a diluted share, on revenue of $3.63 billion during the quarter ended July 31. The Moline, Ill., concern earned $68.9 million, or 29 cents a share, on revenue of $3.04 billion, a year earlier. 

 Deere's third-quarter profit jumped in part because it is exploiting troubles at its biggest competitor, CNH Global NV, which was created through the November merger of Case Corp. and the New Holland unit of Fiat SpA. 

 Some farm customers are abandoning CNH, of Racine, Wis., as it disposes of some product lines in order to satisfy antitrust regulators. To take advantage of the situation, Deere is returning to nearly full operation of some plants that it partially idled last year as the farm recession damped demand for new tractors. 

 Deere also recently introduced its first rotary-style harvesting combine, which competes directly with a popular model made by CNH. 

 As a result of these moves, Deere said its factories are operating much more efficiently than last year, and that the company is increasing its share of some farm-equipment markets. Deere declined to be more specific. 

 Despite the third-quarter earnings rebound, Deere warned yesterday that it doesn't see an end to the farm recession anytime soon. In its first prediction of fiscal 2001 conditions, the company said it expects industrywide unit sales of farm gear in the U.S. and Canada to drop as much as 5%. 

 That gloomy outlook prompted Wall Street analysts to abandon their projections for Deere to earn about $3 a share in the year ending Oct. 31, 2001. Eli S. Lustgarten, an analyst at H.C. Wainwright & Co., New York, said he now expects Deere to earn about $2.65 a share in fiscal 2001. 

 Thanks to a string of unusually big Midwest harvests, the farm economy is choking on a price-depressing glut of everything from grain and cranberries to tomatoes. The price of corn, the nation's biggest crop, has dropped 30% since May, when forecasts for a Midwest drought failed to materialize. 

 The U.S. is spending billions of dollars on agricultural subsidies to prop up the farm economy. But many farmers are leery about buying new equipment when the fundamentals of their business are so poor. Grain processors in Iowa this week are offering farmers as little as $1.25 a bushel of corn, the lowest price since 1986 -- the depths of the 1980s farm crisis. 

 Government field surveys indicate that U.S. farmers will harvest this fall a record 10.4 billion bushels of corn, a record 2.99 billion bushels of soybeans and 19.2 million bales of cotton, which would be the second-largest cotton crop ever. 

Document j000000020010807dw8g00lvr




 Discount Retailer Ross Stores' 2nd Quarter Profit Fell 7% 

710 words
16 August 2000
13:03
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Discount retailer Ross Stores Inc. said its fiscal second-quarter net income fell 7%, in line with guidance issued last month, and warned that slowing sales may hurt earnings in the current quarter. 

 Specialty retailer Talbots Inc. and Consolidated Stores Corp. also met analysts' estimates for the latest quarter. 

 Ross Stores, which operates a chain of off-price apparel and home-accessories stores, said net income for the period ended July 29 came to $35.9 million, or 43 cents a diluted share, down from $38.6 million, or 42 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose 6.9% to $657 million from $614.6 million. 

 Before the second-quarter warning in July, analysts were expecting the company to post a profit of 49 cents a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Ross Stores said same-store sales, or sales at stores open at least a year, in the latest quarter were even with the year-earlier period. 

 The Newark, Calif., retailer attributed the slowdown to a softening in consumer spending and to a more "promotional climate" compared to last year, particularly in the department-store sector. 

 Looking ahead, Ross said it remains cautious for the second half of the year as the "environment continues to be difficult." The company said same-store sales for the two weeks of August were down 4%. 

 "Although it is too early to accurately predict third-quarter results, if this trend continues, we believe that earnings per share for the third quarter of 2000 would fall below last year's level of 38 cents," said Michael Balmuth, vice chairman and chief executive officer. 

 The mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call is for fiscal third-quarter earnings of 39 cents a share. 

 Shares of Ross Stores (ROST) fell sharply lower on the news, trading at $15.125, down $1.47, or 8.9%, at 4 p.m. EDT Wednesday on the Nasdaq Stock Market. 

 "On a more positive note, we are seeing increased opportunities in the marketplace to purchase name-brand merchandise at very compelling values, which should enhance our prospects for the longer term," Mr. Balmuth said. 

 Meanwhile, Talbots (TLB) said its fiscal net income nearly quadrupled, driven primarily by regular-price selling across its retail stores, and catalog and Internet businesses. 

 The Hingham, Mass., company, which specializes in women's business and casual clothing, said net income came to $14.6 million, or 46 cents a diluted share, compared with $3.8 million, or 12 cents a share, a year earlier. Sales rose 17% to $356.6 million from $305 million. 

 Same-store sales increased 14.6%, while total retail sales climbed 18% to $311.5 million. 

 Talbot's catalog sales grew 10% to $45.1 million. 

 "We remain on track to open approximately 55 new stores by the end of the fiscal year, with our newest brand extension, Talbots Woman, expanding more rapidly as a major growth vehicle for the company," said Arnold B. Zetcher, Talbot's chairman, president and chief executive officer. 

 Meanwhile, Consolidated Stores (CNS) reported a wider fiscal second-quarter net loss of $62.7 million, or 56 cents a share, which included a loss from discontinued operations of $72 million, or 64 cents a share. The year-earlier loss was $12.8 million, or 11 cents a share. 

 Excluding the loss, the company posted income from continuing operations of $9.3 million, or eight cents a share, matching the mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Sales from continuing operations rose 10% to $708.5 million from $641.6 million. 

 The Columbus, Ohio, value retailer announced in late June that it planned to divest its K*B Toy unit and account for it as a discontinued operation in the latest quarter. Continuing operations now comprise the Consolidated Stores closeout business and wholesale operations. 

 The sale of K*B Toy was part of the retailer's plan to separate its toy unit and close-out merchandise business. Consolidated Stores said it hopes to complete the transaction in the near future. 

 (Compiled from Dow Jones Newswires and other sources) 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020020330dw8g01l7u




 Cypress Semi Sees Strong Sales To Motorola In 3rd Quarter,  4th Quarter 

221 words
16 August 2000
03:46
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 SAN JOSE -(Dow Jones)- Cypress Semiconductor Corp. (CY) expects sales of its low-power MoBL SRAMs to Motorola Inc. (MOT) to remain strong in the third and fourth quarters. 

 In a press release Tuesday, Cypress said demand "shows the potential" for a 20% sequential increase in the third quarter, ahead of previous forecasts. 

 Cypress said it wanted to address speculation in recent weeks that the cellular telephone market was flattening, adding that some market observers have "conjectured" about Cypress's exposure to fluctuations in business conditions for wireless handset makers. 

 On July 27, following a Nokia Corp. (NOK) profit warning for the third quarter, many cell phone-related stocks fell, including Motorola, Ericsson Telephone Co. (ERICY) and Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN), the top supplier of chips to the wireless market. 

 Cypress said demand from handset manufacturers, including Motorola, "is continuing to grow at a vigorous pace." Cypress said it expects calendar year-over-year business with Motorola to increase "by almost a factor of five." 

 Cypress shares closed Tuesday at 43, up 2 5/16 or 5.68%. 

 The MoBL, or "More Battery Life," products are designed to increase talk time in cellular telephones. 

 Company Web site http://www.cypress.com

 -Josh Beckerman; Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5400 

Document dj00000020010805dw8g0370t


Newscast: Business news and stock report   

485 words
16 August 2000
CBS News: Morning News
CBSM
English
(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

JON FRANKEL, anchor:   

On Wall Street, stocks finished mixed. The Dow tumbled 109 points on Tuesday, closing at 11,067.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Dow Jones Industrials   

11,067.00   

down 109.14   

Volume: 895,960,000   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

FRANKEL: The NASDAQ rose about 2 points, ending at 3,851.   

(Graphic on screen)   

3,851.66   

up 1.97   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

FRANKEL: In Tokyo, the Nikkei was up more than 1/4 of 1 percent overnight.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Tokyo Nikkei Average   

16,356.03   

up 57.74   

Change: up 0.35%   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

FRANKEL: The Dow's drop brought a quick end to a three-day winning streak. CBS MarketWatch analyst Alexis Christoforous has that and more.   

ALEXIS CHRISTOFOROUS reporting:   

Well, after three days of gains for the blue chips, it was time to cash in profits, and cash in they did. Investors unloaded recently high-flying retail stocks.  Home Depot was the big drag on the Dow. It sank more than 5 after second quarter profits only met expectations.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Retail Slump   

Home Depot JC Pennney Target (HD) (JCP) (TGT)   

down 5 1/4 down 1 7/16 down 2 15/16 to 53 3/4 to 16 1/2 to 27   

CHRISTOFOROUS: J.C. Penney took it on the chin after warning that profit for the rest of the year could fall short if sales don't pick up. And Target's profit hit the mark, but the retailer sounded a warning about future earnings.   

Chip stocks were the place to be after a number of analysts made some upbeat comments about the sector.  Intel rose 7/8ths on the day.  Rambus shot up 5 percent. Another big winner was  Sun Microsystems. The stock hit a 52-week high after it told investors that demand for its products is very strong.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Media Buyout   

Viacom (VIA) Infinity down 1 9/16 Broadcasting (INF) to up 3 5/8 69 13/16 to 38 7/8   

CHRISTOFOROUS: On the buyout front,  Viacom, which owns CBS, wants to buy the rest of  Infinity Broadcasting that it doesn't already own for a price tag of $15 1/2 billion. Infinity, which is home to the Howard Stern and Don Imus radio shows, shot up nearly $4 on that news.   

Put  Ciena on your stocks to watch list. The networking equipment giant announced a two-for-one stock split after the closing bell. And the Internet search engine Lycos said profit beat the Street by a whopping 4 cents a share.   

Investors are awaiting a report on inflation at the retail level. It could give us more clues about what the Fed might do with interest rates at next week's meeting. At the NASDAQ Marketsite, I'm Alexis Christoforous, CBS MarketWatch.   

FRANKEL: For more on the markets, click on cbs.marketwatch.com.   

Document CBSM000020070818dw8g0027u




 Business/Financial Desk; Section C 
 J. C. Penney Reports 90% Plunge in Profits 

Reuters
219 words
16 August 2000
The New York Times
NYTF
Page 8, Column 2
English
 c. 2000 New York Times Company 

 CHICAGO, Aug. 15 -- The J. C. Penney Company said today that its operating profit fell 90 percent in the second quarter and warned that results for the balance of the year would be hurt if slow sales at its department stores continued. 

 Penney, the No. 5 United States retailer, said income excluding unusual items fell to $11 million, or 1 cent a diluted share, from $112 million, or 40 cents a share, in the quarter a year earlier. 

 Analysts had expected Penney to break even for the quarter, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 ''August is a key month for the third quarter, but it has started slowly and below plan,'' Donald McKay, Penney's chief financial officer, told analysts on a conference call. ''If this trend continues for any period of time, analysts' estimates for the third quarter and fourth quarter could prove to be high.'' 

 The profit warning helped send shares of the company, based in Plano, Tex., down about 8 percent. Shares fell $1.4375, to $16.50. 

 Also today, the Target Corporation, the No. 4 United States retailer, warned that higher store opening expenses and a difficult comparison with a year earlier would limit its earnings growth in the third quarter. 

Document nytf000020010809dw8g017so




 Worthington Issues  Profit Warning , Plans to Buy Pennsylvania Tech Units 

302 words
15 August 2000
15:25
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 COLUMBUS, Ohio. -(Dow Jones)- Metal processor Worthington Industries Inc. warned that first-quarter earnings will fall well below analysts' expectations, although the company maintained it will meet full-year estimates. 

 Worthington (WOR) said earnings for the quarter will be as low as 15 cents a share. Six analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial produced a mean estimate of 28 cents a share. Worthington posted earnings of $24.3 million, or 27 cents a share in the year-earlier period. Revenue figures weren't provided. 

 The company, however, said it believes it will reach full-year estimates of $1.26 a share. Worthington reported earnings from continuing operations of $94.2 million, or $1.06 a share, in the previous fiscal year. 

 Worthington Industries, Columbus, Ohio, attributed its poor first-quarter outlook on unexpected increases in the price of raw materials. However, the company said that, with the recent decline in these prices. it can look forward to a "favorable impact" starting in the second quarter. 

 Separately, Worthington said it plans to buy the assets of MetalTech, NexTech and GalvTech, three independent limited partnerships based in Pennsylvania, for $300 million in cash. Known as the "Techs," the partnerships together produce and distribute about 1 million tons of galvanized steel a year. 

 The price of the transaction may increase by up to $40 million over the next three years, depending on market prices incurred for steel and raw material costs. 

 Worthington Industries -- which makes automotive stampings, pressure cylinders, metal framing, metal ceiling grid systems and laser welded blanks -- said it believes such a purchase would bring its average annual growth rate to about 15%. 

 (Compiled from Dow Jones Newswires and other sources) 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020020330dw8f01l18




 Philippines Alaska Milk 2nd Quarter Net PHP129.6 Million Vs PHP96.2 Million 

370 words
14 August 2000
09:39
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Alaska Milk Corp. (Q.AMC) - Manila
   2Q Ended June 30.
   All figures are in pesos (PHP).
                          2000          1999
Net profit        PHP129.6 Mln   PHP96.2 Mln
Net sales            979.4 Mln     878.7 Mln
Expenses             835.1 Mln     769.4 Mln
Other income          33.7 Mln      24.5 Mln
Per Share
 Earnings               0.14          0.10
($1=PHP44.847)
-
    1H Ended June 30.



Net profit           240.1 Mln     161.9 Mln
Net sales             1.84 bln      1.66 bln
Expenses              1.58 bln      1.49 bln
Other income          61.5 Mln      46.7 Mln
Per Share
 Earnings               0.26          0.17



0850GMT



MANILA (Dow Jones)--Philippine dairy concern Alaska Milk Corp. (Q.AMC)
said Monday its net profit in the first half surged 48% to 240.1 million
pesos ($1=PHP44.847) from PHP161.9 million as profit margins rose on
higher sales volume and lower raw material cost.



Alaska Milk posted a net profit of PHP129.6 million in the second
quarter alone, up 35% from PHP96.2 million last year.



"Higher sales volume of liquid milk combined with lower raw material
costs expanding operating margin," the company said. Operating margin
rose to 14.5% in the first half from 10.5% in the year-ago period.



Total revenue in the first half rose 11% to PHP1.85 billion, with
sales in the second quarter contributing PHP979.4 million.



Alaska Milk, however, is warning of a possible contraction in profit
margins in the later half of this year if uptrend in skim milk powder
prices persists.



Skim milk power, the main raw material in Alaska Milk's production
process, are imported from Australia and New Zealand. The company said
skim milk powder prices in "trending higher" as demand from Asian
countries are increased while supply from Europe, New Zealand and
Australia "are tight."



Aside from rising raw material prices, Alaska Milk said other factors
that could hit profitability in the second half are the depreciation of
the peso and the softness in the domestic milk market.



-By Cris Larano, Dow Jones Newswires; 632-892-5590;
cris.larano@dowjones.com
-0- 14/08/00 09-59G


Document dji0000020010805dw8e03yut




 Philippines Alaska Milk 2nd Quarter Net PHP129.6 Million Vs PHP96.2 Million 

370 words
14 August 2000
09:39
Dow Jones Asian Equities Report
AER
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Alaska Milk Corp. (Q.AMC) - Manila
   2Q Ended June 30.
   All figures are in pesos (PHP).
                          2000          1999
Net profit        PHP129.6 Mln   PHP96.2 Mln
Net sales            979.4 Mln     878.7 Mln
Expenses             835.1 Mln     769.4 Mln
Other income          33.7 Mln      24.5 Mln
Per Share
 Earnings               0.14          0.10
($1=PHP44.847)
-
    1H Ended June 30.



Net profit           240.1 Mln     161.9 Mln
Net sales             1.84 bln      1.66 bln
Expenses              1.58 bln      1.49 bln
Other income          61.5 Mln      46.7 Mln
Per Share
 Earnings               0.26          0.17



0850GMT



MANILA (Dow Jones)--Philippine dairy concern Alaska Milk Corp. (Q.AMC)
said Monday its net profit in the first half surged 48% to 240.1 million
pesos ($1=PHP44.847) from PHP161.9 million as profit margins rose on
higher sales volume and lower raw material cost.



Alaska Milk posted a net profit of PHP129.6 million in the second
quarter alone, up 35% from PHP96.2 million last year.



"Higher sales volume of liquid milk combined with lower raw material
costs expanding operating margin," the company said. Operating margin
rose to 14.5% in the first half from 10.5% in the year-ago period.



Total revenue in the first half rose 11% to PHP1.85 billion, with
sales in the second quarter contributing PHP979.4 million.



Alaska Milk, however, is warning of a possible contraction in profit
margins in the later half of this year if uptrend in skim milk powder
prices persists.



Skim milk power, the main raw material in Alaska Milk's production
process, are imported from Australia and New Zealand. The company said
skim milk powder prices in "trending higher" as demand from Asian
countries are increased while supply from Europe, New Zealand and
Australia "are tight."



Aside from rising raw material prices, Alaska Milk said other factors
that could hit profitability in the second half are the depreciation of
the peso and the softness in the domestic milk market.



-By Cris Larano, Dow Jones Newswires; 632-892-5590;
cris.larano@dowjones.com
-0- 14/08/00 09-59G


Document aer0000020010802dw8e00cd0




 News 
 Bids Due, Battle Looms For Wells Deal Castoffs 

 BY LAURA MANDARO 
759 words
11 August 2000
American Banker
AMB
1
Vol. 165, No. 154
English
 Copyright (c) 2000 American Banker, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

 Banks and thrifts eager to bulk up in the West take note: Today is the deadline for bids on branches and deposits to be divested in four states in connection with the merger of Wells Fargo & Co. and First Security Corp. 

 The total package will amount to $1.4 billion of deposits and associated loans at 37 Wells Fargo and First Security branches in Idaho, Utah, Nevada, and New Mexico. 

 The divestitures were required to allay antitrust concerns that regulators raised after Wells Fargo announced in April that it would acquire Salt Lake City-based First Security. 

 Four of the region's largest companies are expected to duke it out for the bulk of the branches, including BancWest Corp., U.S. Bancorp, Golden State Bancorp, and Washington Mutual Inc. Each of these banking or thrift companies has been expanding outside its home state, and all of them have expressed an intent to boost their market share in the West. 

 Smaller regional companies, including Compass Bancshares, based in Birmingham, Ala., and Bank of Oklahoma, may also bid, a source said. 

 The divestiture is slightly higher in deposits -- by $200 million -than Wells Fargo predicted when the San Francisco company announced its intention to buy First Security. 

 Marilyn Taylor, a spokeswoman for Wells Fargo in Phoenix, said the company hopes to have winning bidders approved by federal regulators by the end of the month. She declined to give the timetable and conditions for the bidding process. 

 All eyes are on BancWest of Honolulu. The company came agonizingly close to adding an inland Western state to its largely coastal market presence when it won the bidding for 68 branches, most of them in Utah, in a divestiture stemming from the planned merger of First Security and its intracity rival Zions Bancorp. 

 That merger was abandoned in April after it failed to win the support of Zions shareholders. The episode capped months of escalating tensions between the would-be partners, ignited by an early-March profit warning by First Security that forced Zions' merger adviser, Goldman Sachs & Co., to withdraw its fairness opinion on the transaction. 

 BancWest, which would have become the second-largest deposit institution in Utah if the First Security-Zions deal had not collapsed, was left out in the cold. Many expect it will try again. 

 "In general we are interested in acquisitions, particularly in areas where we can get a sufficient market share adjacent to our existing footprint," said John M. Stafford, a spokesman for the Bank of the West, the banking company's principal operating subsidiary. 

 He, like representatives of the other potential bidders mentioned in this story, declined to comment on the upcoming divestitures. Some did not return calls. 

 Banks interested in the Wells and First Security branches will be able to place bids only in select states -- and they will not be able to place bids in individual metropolitan areas within those states, according to a source familiar with the terms of the bidding. That may benefit smaller regionals such as Birmingham, Ala.-based Compass Bancshares, which has been snatching up small and midsize banks in the Southwest. In July, Compass completed the acquisition of $390 million-asset Founders Bank of Arizona. 

 Bank of Oklahoma, which owns Bank of Albuquerque, is also thought to be interested in bidding for branches in one of the states, particularly New Mexico, said a source. 

 Albuquerque and Las Vegas are the juiciest plums among the eight metropolitan areas in which Wells Fargo and First Security will shed branches. In Albuquerque, 21 branches with $720 million of deposits are up for grabs. 

 "This is a good, concentrated presence, which would be fairly attractive for a bank entering the market," said Joseph K. Morford, an analyst at Dain Rauscher Wessels in San Francisco. It might be especially attractive to First Security, which has a 10% market share in New Mexico through its First Security Bank of New Mexico subsidiary. 

 Las Vegas might be even more tempting. Fewer branches there are up for sale, the fast-growing area has been a big draw for both Golden State and Washington Mutual. Wamu started opening branches in southern Las Vegas this year and plans to open at least 21 in the state by next April. California Federal Bank, the main subsidiary of Golden State Bancorp, has a 5% share of the Nevada market. Executives of Golden State have said the company would like to expand in Nevada. 

Document amb0000020010803dw8b004pu




 UAL Flight Cutbacks May Lower Revenue as Much as $150 Million 

 By Susan Carey 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
474 words
11 August 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
A4
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 CHICAGO -- UAL Corp.'s United Airlines doesn't disagree with some analysts' estimates that a raft of flight cancellations is going to reduce revenue by $120 million to $150 million in the third quarter. 

 A spokesman for the airline said those figures "are in the ballpark." 

 Meanwhile, another analyst reduced his third-quarter earnings estimate for the carrier, which has been plagued by stunningly poor operations this summer because of volatile weather, air-traffic control delays and job actions by some of its own pilots and mechanics. 

 Julius Maldutis of CIBC World Markets yesterday lowered his estimate to $2.70 a fully distributed share, from $3.25. Mr. Maldutis figures United already has lost $140 million in revenue from cancellations in the first six weeks of the quarter. If those problems persist and more high-fare business fliers book away from the carrier, he said, the revenue problem will accelerate and United probably will have to issue a profit warning. 

 PaineWebber Inc.'s Sam Buttrick earlier this week lowered his earnings estimates for United's third and fourth quarters. He also put the third-quarter revenue hit from the cancellations at $120 million to $150 million. 

 UAL, in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing Wednesday, reiterated its third-quarter earnings guidance made last month of profit in the range of $2.60 to $3.20 a fully distributed share. The consensus estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial, which stood at $3.11 a share Wednesday, was lowered to $3.03 a share yesterday. 

 The airline, once it recognized that it was in the grips of a job action by some of its workers, proactively reduced its schedule by about 3% through October. But those cuts haven't been enough, so United has been forced to cancel hundreds of flights on the day of departure. It scrubbed more than 700 flights last weekend, for instance, then 239 on Monday, 274 Tuesday, 182 Wednesday and more than 100 yesterday. 

 United is in contract talks with both its pilots and mechanics unions. The pilots, who are taking the brunt of the company's criticism, have said they want a new contract by Labor Day. United said it is making progress with both groups, particularly the pilots, while the pilots said talks are continuing at a "slower-than-desired pace." 

 Jim Goodwin, UAL's chief executive, and Capt. Rick Dubinsky, chief of the pilots' union, met Wednesday to discuss the status of talks, according to the union. The two met again late yesterday with U.S. Sen. Dick Durbin (D., Ill.) to discuss the talks. Sen. Durbin is one of many politicians who have raised complaints about United's erratic service in recent days. 

Document j000000020010807dw8b00lfx




YESTERDAY'S MARKETS
 Report on Business: Money & Markets 
 TSE robbed of early gains as techs fall Nasdaq drops on profit concerns but food, drink stocks boost Dow 

 RICHARD BLOOM 
Bloomberg Business News
486 words
11 August 2000
The Globe and Mail
GLOB
Metro
B12
English
 All material copyright Thomson Canada Limited or its licensors. All rights reserved. 

 Canada's benchmark index gained ground during the morning session but retreated in the afternoon as some of its most heavily weighted stocks fell into the red. 

 Investors were anticipating the late-day address by U.S. Federal Reserve Board chairman Alan Greenspan and key economic data today from south of the border. 

 The Toronto Stock Exchange 300-stock index closed down 66.52 points to 10,796.49. 

 In New York,the tech-heavy Nasdaq Stock Market's composite index lost 93.51 points to 3,759.99 as analysts questioned the future profit potential of some big technology companies. 

 Applied Materials Inc. shares fell even though the semiconductor company surprised analysts with a stellar third-quarter earnings report. The stock closed down $2.87 (U.S.) to $69.25. 

 Cisco Systems Inc., off $4.43 to $63.37, was the exchange's most heavily traded stock, topping a volume of 59 million, as profit-takers sold off their shares following Wednesday's large post-quarterly-report surge. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average gained 2.93 points to 10,908.76 on the strength of big food and beverage blue chips. But 5-per-cent slides in shares of retailers Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Home Depot Inc. curbed the Dow's advance. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 12.62 points to 1,460.25. 

 On the Canadian Venture Exchange, the small caps nudged the CDNX index up 0.13 points to 3,341.42. 

 On Bay Street, five of the TSE's 14 subindexes closed in positive territory. The utilities sector led the upsurge on news of a big contract between Teleglobe Inc. and Vancouver-based fibre-optic networks firm 360networks Inc. The deal will see Teleglobe buy $100-million worth of 360's coming South American network capacity. 

 Teleglobe, in the process of being acquired by BCE Inc., climbed $1.65 (Canadian) to $30.55, while 360networks gained 10 cents to $23.85. Utilities heavyweight BCE added $1.65 to $34.30. 

 JetForm Corp. was $1.05 cheaper at $5.15 after issuing a first-quarter profit warning. 

 Shares of Quebecor Inc. fell $4.20 to $36.75 in the wake of its increased bid for Quebec cable-TV provider Videotron Group Ltee. Videotron added $1.35 to $41.35, while Rogers Communications Inc., which used to have the highest bid for Videotron, gained 40 cents to $38.90. 

 You can read market updates through the day at www.globeandmail.com

 New York Odd Lots 

 Odd-lot trades made Wednesday through the New York Stock Exchange: 


Customer purchases  5,358,865  Short sales  364,127
Other sales         4,970,474  Total sales  5,334,601


Document glob000020010806dw8b01543




 Gap Issues Another  Profit Warning ; Kmart Posts Wider Loss 

1,336 words
10 August 2000
12:26
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Gap Inc., which issued two warnings about second-quarter earnings because of weaker-than-expected sales, Thursday said third-quarter earnings could fall short of estimates and said there is a slight risk it may fall short of estimates for the fourth quarter as well. 

 On a busy day for earning reports from retailers, Gap and Kmart Corp. reported second-quarter results that were in line with warnings they previously issued. Lands' End Inc., which also reduced estimates twice, posted a surprise loss. Specialty retailer AnnTaylor Stores Corp. met Wall Street's expectations and Ames Department Store Inc. reported a narrower-than-expected loss. 

 Gap, which sells its products under brands such as Gap, Banana Republic and Old Navy, said third-quarter earnings will be in line with or fall short of year-earlier earnings of 35 cents a share. The mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial was for third-quarter earnings of 41 cents a share. 

 Shares of Gap (GPS) fell $4.50, or 14%, to $27 at 4 p.m. EDT Thursday on the New York Stock Exchange. Earlier in the day, the stock hit a 52-week low of $26.15. 

 Hurt by heavy promotional activity and a decline in traffic at its Old Navy stores, Gap said net income for the second quarter ended July 29 fell 6.1% to $183.9 million, or 21 cents a diluted share, compared with $195.8 million, or 22 cents a share, a year earlier. Sales rose 20% to $2.95 billion from $2.45 billion a year earlier. 

 Gap has been fighting sluggish sales for more than a year. The retailer's July sales at stores open more than a year fell 1% but store openings boosted overall monthly sales by 22%. 

 In May, Chief Executive Millard "Mickey" Drexler told analysts that the company focused too much on products aimed too directly at teens. Gap's Old Navy chain had the toughest problems in July. Its same-store sales fell in the negative high-teens, compared with year-earlier growth in the low double-digits, the company said. Gap attributed part of the July sales slump to two major product shipments that didn't make it to stores on time. 

 Kmart (KM), the nation's No. 2 discounter behind Wal-Mart Stores Inc., posted a much wider net loss for the period ended July 26 of $448 million, or 93 cents a diluted share, compared with a loss of $92 million, or 15 cents a share, a year earlier. Sales rose 2.3% to $9 billion from $8.8 billion. 

 The company's second-quarter gross profit margin from continuing operations fell to 20.5% from 21.9% a year earlier. 

 The latest results included $471 million in aftertax charges for costs related to revamping its operations. Excluding the charges, Kmart said it would have posted earnings of $23 million, or five cents a share, in line with analysts' diminished estimates. Prior to a warning from Kmart late last month, analysts had been expecting earnings of 16 cents a share. 

 Kmart Chairman and Chief Executive Chuck Conaway said second-quarter results fell "primarily due to soft sales in apparel and other seasonal merchandise that resulted in greater clearance markdowns to promote sales." Mr. Conaway said consumables and grocery merchandise distribution also performed below expectations and "significantly" increased costs. 

 Late last month, Kmart announced plans to close 72 underperforming stores, increase markdowns on discontinued inventory and launch a program to upgrade its computer systems. The steps represented the first major initiatives by Mr. Conaway, who was recruited May 31 to complete a turnaround begun five years ago by his predecessor, Floyd Hall. 

 During a meeting Thursday with the financial community, Mr. Conaway announced plans to invest $2 billion in infrastructure over the next two years. "These steps are designed to dramatically revamp our technology processes, change management capabilities and systems over the next 24 months," said Mr. Conaway. "We've reallocated our capital for the third and fourth quarters of 2000 and committed to these priorities in 2001 and 2002 so that we can leap-frog ahead on these investments." 

 Kmart will also reduce the number of stores district managers control to eight from about 13. On the technology front, all Kmart stores will have updated scanners by October and new point-of-sale registers by August 2001. By October, the company also will launch a customer-service measurement system to get feedback from 15 to 20 million customers a year and open a new customer service center. 

 Lands' End Warns Of Slower Earnings Growth 

 Lands' End Inc. (LE) reported a net loss of $1.9 million, or six cents a share, compared with year-earlier net income of $4.5 million, or 14 cents a share. Sales were little changed at $255.5 million, compared with $254.6 million a year earlier. 

 Analysts had expected Lands' End to earn seven cents a share. That estimate had been reduced following two warnings from the company. In July, the company said it expected to report earnings of seven cents a share based on weaker-than-expected sales trends. 

 Looking forward, the catalog and Internet retailer expects weak trends in sales and earnings in the third quarter but said it sees fourth-quarter results representing a substantial improvement over the prior year. 

 The mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial is for earnings of 30 cents a share for the third quarter and $1.34 for the fourth quarter, which includes the holiday shopping season. In the year-earlier third quarter, the company reported earnings of $8.8 million, or 28 cents a share, on sales of $326 million. In the fourth quarter ended Jan. 28, the company posted earnings of $28.3 million, or 92 cents a share, on sales of $449.6 million. 

 The company said it no longer expects the 20% increase in per-share earnings it had previously targeted for the year because of disappointing results in the first half. But the company said it believes it can achieve "somewhat positive earnings growth for the year." 

 If the trends of weak sales and higher costs continue into the holiday period, Lands' End said its current business plans would be at risk. "It's very disappointing," ABN Amro analyst Kevin Silverman said. "There's got to be less confidence here going forward." 

 Ames Posts Narrower-Than-Expected Loss 

 Ames said its loss for the quarter ended July 29 widened to $22.1 million, or 75 cents a diluted share, compared with a year-earlier loss of $21.5 million, or 78 cents a share. Revenue edged up 1% to $882.6 million from $871.5 million a year earlier. Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial had expected a loss of 78 cents a share. Ames (AMES) shares climbed 13% in active trading on the Nasdaq stock market. 

 The Rocky Hill, Conn.-based discount retailer, company, which relies heavily on seasonal merchandise, blamed cooler-than-normal weather for a 2.5% drop in same-store sales. However, the company noted that it had maintained control over its inventories and overhead, cushioning the impact of the sales shortfall. 

 AnnTaylor's Earnings Meet Expectations 

 For its fiscal second quarter, AnnTaylor Stores (ANN) said net income rose 8.1% to $13.4 million, or 45 cents a diluted share, matching the mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. Year-earlier net income was $12.4 million, or 39 cents a share. Sales at the New York-based women's apparel retailer rose 15% to $306.3 million from $265.7 million. Same-store sales rose 3.1%. Same-store sales for August and the third quarter are expected to rise in the "low single digits." 

 (Compiled from Dow Jones Newswires and other sources) 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020020330dw8a01k90




 Nova's 2nd-Quarter Core Earnings Miss Estimate, Issues  Profit Warning 

493 words
10 August 2000
03:22
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Nova Corp. swung to a net loss in the second quarter because of merger-related costs as core earnings were lower than analysts' estimates. The credit- and debit-card processing company late Wednesday also released 2000 and 2001 earnings projections that are below expectations. 

 Atlanta-based Nova had a second-quarter net loss of $69.3 million, or 99 cents a share, compared with net income of $20.5 million, or 28 cents a share, in the year-earlier period. Revenue rose 7% to $405.8 million. 

 The latest quarter included $142.5 million in pretax charges, $84.6 million in merger-related costs and $57.9 million that Nova believes it won't collect. 

 Excluding the charges, Nova (NIS) said it would have posted earnings of $22.1 million, or 31 cents a share. The mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial was for earnings of 35 cents a share. 

 Two weeks ago, Nova shares tumbled after the company warned second-quarter revenue would fall below expectations. Nova cited the disappointing performance of two large acquired portfolios, a lack of typical seasonal growth in its base portfolio and lower-than-expected average processing volume of merchant accounts. 

 At that time, Nova also said the lower revenue and an accounting change for its Econex unit, will put pressure on the company's financial performance for the quarter and possibly the rest of the year. Econex, a joint venture formed in 1999, sells software for electronic commerce. 

 Nova said Wednesday its revenue shortfall "is largely isolated" to merchant-processing revenue, which fell 12%. 

 The company also said it will take an estimated $13 million, or 12 cents a share, charge to integrate Econex into Nova's core operations. "We remain committed to our Internet strategy and the Econex product line," Nova said. "We continue to see triple-digit growth in Internet processing volume, coupled with strong and growing demand for Econex products and services." 

 As for the future, Nova expects revenue to grow 5% to 6% in the third and fourth quarters, which the company said suggest 2000 core earnings of between $1.22 and $1.26 a share. The First Call estimate was $1.39. 

 Next year, the company estimates "consolidated" revenue to grow 7% to 10%, resulting in earnings of $1.43 to $1.47 a share. First Call's 2001 estimate was $1.65 a share. 

 In 1999, Nova earned $82.5 million, or $1.14 a share, on revenue of $1.47 billion. 

 The company also said it will be an "active buyer" of Nova shares starting Monday as the company resumes its share buyback program, started in June 1999. To date, nearly $155 million of the $250 million authorized has been spent. 

 (Compiled from Dow Jones Newswires and other sources) 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dw8a01k5m




FINANCE/BUSINESS
Seeking Respect, Alcatel Aims to Conquer U.S. 

Brad Spurgeon 
International Herald Tribune
1,727 words
10 August 2000
International Herald Tribune
INHT
English
© 2000 International Herald Tribune.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All rights reserved.  

Alcatel SA has crept into a leading position in some of the hottest sectors of the global telecommunications industry, but it hasn't got one thing it really wants: respect. 

It is still widely viewed by peers and observers as an old- fashioned European conglomerate accused variously of bargain- shopping for acquisitions, of top-heavy management and of outdated technology. 

While Alcatel is active in 130 countries, only 18 percent of its sales are in the United States. Now, it has set its sights on perhaps its biggest challenge yet, conquering America. 

To many investors, Alcatel is a positive example of an old-world industrial giant that has moved with the new-economy times, a case study in the same mold as Nokia Oyj, Vivendi SA and Olivetti SpA. 

With net income of $650 million last year and 85 percent of its sales in telecommunications Alcatel has come back strongly since the bad old days of 1995, when it posted the largest one-year corporate deficit in French history, a $5 billion loss on massive restructuring costs. 

Last month, for instance, it said its second-quarter profit rose 43 percent to $312 million more convincing evidence for investors who have already elevated its stock this year by nearly 80 percent. But it still has a legacy to overcome. 

"They're just always a little bit of an outsider compared to, say, Nortel and Lucent," said Claude Romans, an analyst at RHK Inc., a California telecommunications research firm. Alcatel is still viewed "as a stodgy, big old company." 

Inside the ultramodern, recently renovated Paris headquarters of the 120,000-employee company, the architect of Alcatel's renewal has few doubts that the company will soon be properly regarded as a new- economy titan. 

"If you want to call it a dinosaur, go ahead," said Serge Tchuruk, the Frenchman who became Alcatel's chairman and chief executive in 1995 after turning around the oil company Total. 

But, he added, Alcatel is a dinosaur that has improved its U.S. sales from $500 million to $5 billion in five years and a dinosaur that now has the No. 1 position in a popular form of broadband Internet access worldwide. 

By many accounts, Alcatel leads competitors Cisco Systems Inc. of San Jose, California, and Orckit Communications Ltd., based in Tel Aviv, in the broadband field of ADSL, or asymmetric digital subscriber lines. The technology provides data speeds of as much as 8 megabits a second over copper telephone lines and, along with cable modem broadband access, is among the fastest ways of accessing the Internet today. 

Last year, the ADSL market finally boomed, and Alcatel sold 1.5 million lines to telecommunications operators, up from fewer than 100,000 in 1998, with more than 6 million line sales projected for this year. By some measures, it has as much as a 56 percent world market share, with most of the sales coming in the United States, which adopted the technology sooner than Europe. 

The worldwide market for ADSL modem devices, according to Cahners In-Stat Group, will grow from $272 million in 1998 to a projected $8.8 billion by 2002. 

Alcatel is also world leader in long-distance undersea DWDM (dense wavelength division multiplexing) optical cable, with 37 percent of the market and $1.1 billion in sales. These new-generation fiber- optic cables laid across the Atlantic and Pacific oceans, for example provide capacity of as much as 5 terabits a second. 

Despite its success, Christian Reinaudo, president of Alcatel's optics group, said Alcatel's image in this sector continued to languish because industry and public opinion was shaped by better- known companies such as Nortel Networks Corp. and Lucent Technologies Inc., which sell mostly overland cables. 

"Because they do not have the market share in undersea systems," he said of his competitors, "they don't talk about it, and the impression left is that it does not exist." 

To change opinions in America, Mr. Reinaudo said Alcatel must become a supplier to at least one of the major telecommunications operators, such as WorldCom Inc., AT&T Corp. or Sprint Corp. 

"We think that before the end of the year 2000 we will have a position with one of these," he said. 

Alcatel's dinosaur image has deep roots. Founded in 1898 as the publicly owned Compagnie Generale d'Electricite, the company became a telecommunications specialist when it combined with the bulk of ITT Corp.'s business in 1986. In 1989, it joined up with the British company GEC to form GEC Alsthom, which gave rise to its energy and railroads businesses it made the French high-speed trains, for example. 

It had by then become France's largest conglomerate, but it was suffering from the effects of deregulation it could no longer charge high prices to state-run monopolies and corporate sprawl that left it without clear direction. 

When Mr. Tchuruk took over, the telecommunications sector represented about 40 percent of the group. He took a gamble and started pouring money into that sector and shedding other assets. 

"Then one or two years later there was the Internet explosion," Mr. Tchuruk said, "and that was really undoubtedly a bit of luck." 

To compete in the United States, Alcatel is filling some holes in its technology portfolio through acquisitions. 

Its biggest purchase, completed in May, was Newbridge Networks Corp. of Ontario, a market leader in ATM-based phone equipment, which Alcatel bought for $7.1 billion 

The purchase was a bet on the ATM, or asynchronous transfer mode, technology when many in the industry were predicting a broad move to a competing technology, IP, or Internet protocol. 

Luck, however, was again on Alcatel's side. A recent Federal Communications Commission ruling encouraged U.S. phone companies to modernize their access networks, and so far several of them have selected ATM over IP. 

"We believe that every one of the regional Bells is going to do a 100 percent ATM modernization," said Tom Nolle, a telecommunications analyst at CIMI Corp. in Virginia. "Alcatel is the drop-dead winner in this. This initiative alone could make Alcatel a bigger player in the U.S. telecommunications market than Cisco." 

Nonetheless, the Newbridge move came under an avalanche of criticism; Newbridge had failed to meet profit predictions for several quarters and had not introduced a new product for years, analysts said. 

"Newbridge is an also-ran company with a has-been technology why in the world would anybody want it?" asked Bernard Daines, the former owner of Packet Engines Inc., an Ethernet routing company in Spokane, Washington, that Alcatel bought in 1998. 

David Allen, who worked at Alcatel in the early 1990s and is now vice president of marketing at Nortel, said Alcatel simply did not know how to handle acquisitions. 

Mr. Daines blames what he considers to be the failure of the acquisition of his company the Packet Engines product, while part of Alcatel's catalog, is no longer being developed on Alcatel's management style. 

"They have an absolutely ridiculous matrix management organization," he said. "Somebody either reports to five people or nobody, and they can't get anything done. It's one of their major problems and they don't seem able or interested in fixing it." 

Pearse Flynn, former president of Newbridge and now president of the division that Newbridge has become, said that some fallout from a takeover is impossible to avoid. "How do you stop an 800-pound gorilla from picking up a newborn baby and killing it with kindness?" he said. 

Jacques Dunogue, Alcatel's secretary general, insisted that Alcatel is using "all the management organization tricks we can." 

To succeed in broadband access, for instance, Alcatel overcame its elephantine proportions to beat nimble start-ups by using a "virtual company" system. 

Martin De Prycker, who headed the operation out of Antwerp, Belgium, in the mid-1990s, said the concept, still used throughout the company, was to pull a few dozen people out of the conglomerate to develop a single product. The group had priority access to whatever it needed from the larger company without the usual bureaucracy getting in the way. 

Alcatel also has taken heat from its stockholders and its employees. A warning in September 1998 that its profit would not meet forecasts stunned investors and sent its stock down 38 percent in one day. Mr. Tchuruk followed that up by instituting American-style quarterly results, which gave shareholders greater financial transparency. 

But some employees today feel there is not enough transparency within the company. 

"Every engineer wants to see his technology work well, and to create it with finesse," said Jean-Baptiste Triquet, a representative of the CFDT, a labor union, at Alcatel. 

"But now, we have the impression that this precision technology side is not taken into account. What counts is, 'Does it make money, or does it not make money?' Some of us think the directors couldn't really care less what we're building, and we would be making peanut tins if it brought in as much money as telephones." 

Telephones are, in fact, making money for the company. Handset sales drove revenue in its enterprise and consumer division in the second quarter, and Mr. Tchuruk said the company would exceed its full-year forecast of sales of 20 million mobile phones. 

Dataquest Inc. said in May that Alcatel was No. 3 in cell-phone sales in Europe, behind Nokia and Ericsson, but it is generally a low- margin business, and it does not sell phones in America. 

The company believes it will get the U.S. sales and respect it feel it is due partly through continued acquisitions and partly by getting its message out. 

"We are not trying to plant the French flag on the U.S.," Mr. Dunogue said, but rather creating local offices in acquired companies. Alcatel Carrier Networking, which includes Newbridge, is run out of Ottawa. 

Like Mr. Tchuruk's choice to focus on telecommunications just before the Internet boom, Alcatel looks like a serendipitous winner in the United States with ATM modernization, according to Mr. Nolle, the analyst. 

But he added, "Alcatel has gone as far as serendipity will take them. Now can they exploit this further?"  

Document inht000020010807dw8a00447




 Business/Financial Desk; Section C 
 Lucent Service Provider Executive Resigns 

Bloomberg News
213 words
10 August 2000
The New York Times
NYTF
Page 8, Column 1
English
 c. 2000 New York Times Company 

 MURRAY HILL, N.J., Aug. 9 -- Lucent Technologies Inc. said this week that Patricia Russo would resign as executive vice president and chief executive of the service provider networks group, as the corporate chief executive, Richard A. McGinn, reorganizes the company after a profitwarning. 

 The decision to leave was hers, Lucent said. Ms. Russo, a 19-year employee of Lucent and its former parent, the AT&T Corporation, became head of sales and product development for companies that run phone and data networks in October after Carleton Fiorina left the company to become chief executive of the Hewlett-Packard Company. 

 Last month, Lucent, the biggest maker of phone equipment, said profit in the next two quarters would fall short of forecasts. Ms. Russo, whom Fortune magazine ranked among the 50 most powerful women in business the last two years, took on product development after heading up acquisitions for three years. 

 The company said today that John Dickson would become president and chief executive of the company's microelectronics business when it is spun off into a separate company next year. 

 Mr. Dickson, 54, is currently executive vice president and chief executive of Lucent's microelectronics and communications technologies group. 

Document nytf000020010809dw8a016mc


 BUSINESS 
 VERIZON ISSUES  PROFIT WARNING 

 Bruce Meyerson Associated Press 
487 words
9 August 2000
Dayton Daily News
DDNW
CITY
2E
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 Market responds: Shares fall $5.81 to close at $42.06. 

 NEW YORK - Already beset by a potentially crippling strike, Verizon Communications rankled investors Tuesday with a worrisome profit forecast that dashed any initial enthusiasm about a major new alliance in high-speed Internet services. 

 The disappointing profit update came amid escalating tensions in this week's strike against Verizon by 87,200 workers. However, the three-day conflict wasn't to blame in the revised outlook from the giant telephone company, which was formed in June through the merger of Bell Atlantic and GTE. 

 The reaction was swift on the New York Stock Exchange, where Verizon slid 12 percent to the lowest level in more than a year, falling $5.812 per share to close at $42.063. 

 Partly overshadowed by the day's troubles was an agreement by Verizon to merge its DSL businesses with NorthPoint Communications Group, an upstart provider of the high-speed Internet service. 

 Industry observers said the partnership would help Verizon's aggressive move into DSL, a technology used to overcome the capacity constraints of a copper phone wire to deliver speedier, "broadband" connections to the Web. DSL stands for digital subscriber line. 

 Verizon's troubles may have weighed on NorthPoint shares, which fell 5 percent, or 75 cents, to close at $14.25 on the Nasdaq Stock Market. 

 In Tuesday's profit report, Verizon said second-quarter operating profits totaled $1.97 billion or 72 cents a share at Bell Atlantic and GTE, which completed their merger near the end of the three- month period. Those results were about 5 percent better than the combined operating profit of $1.87 billion or 67 cents per share generated by the two companies in the second quarter 1999. 

 But casting a cloud over the report, Verizon also reduced its profit forecast for the second half of the year as well as 2001 and 2002. 

 Verizon said its earnings outlook has been hurt by the conditions set by federal and state regulators in approving the GTE purchase, as well as accounting factors related to that merger, the wireless alliance with Vodafone AirTouch, and the acquisitions of both NorthPoint and OnePoint, a company Verizon announced plans to acquire on Monday. 

 Second-quarter revenues totaled $16.63 billion, an increase of 7.4 percent from a year-ago tally of $15.49 billion generated by the same operations. Internet and data services led the increase, rising 32 to $1.5 billion. 

 Including all those factors, Verizon's net profit for the second quarter amounted to $4.91 billion, or $1.79 per share. That compared with $1.94 billion, or 70 cents per share, in the second quarter of 1999. 

 Caption: PHOTO:  VERIZON EMPLOYEES Pam Brown (left) and Aziz Ahmed hold signs outside a Verizon office in Washington on Tuesday. PHOTO CREDIT:  SMITH GARRISON/ASSOCIATED PRESS 

Document ddnw000020010805dw8900p1l




 Nasdaq 0.13 percent higher, Dow down 0.65 percent 

520 words
9 August 2000
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 NEW YORK, Aug 9 (AFP) - The tech-heavy Nasdaq index rose 4.95 points, or 0.13 percent Wednesday, to 3,853.50 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) lost 71.06, or 0.65 percent, to 10,905.83 points. 

 The Standard and Poor's 500 also fell 9.93 points, or 0.67 percent, to 1,472.87. 

 On the broader New York Stock Exchange, more than 1.05 billion shares changed hands, in addition to 1.51 billion on Nasdaq. 

 The Nasdaq benefited from results published late Tuesday by leading Internet network equipment provider Cisco, which saw better- than-expected quarterly profits. 

 Some afternoon taking eroded gains on the DJIA, however. 

 Wal-Mart also pressured the Dow, after announcing analysts should reduce their third quarter EPS consensus to reflect an accounting change. 

 Pharmaceutical stocks were weak after Eli Lilly issued a profitwarning, and revised its growth forecasts for part of 2001 and 2002 on news that a court had reversed its 2003 patent for the drug Prozac. 

 Eli Lilly's patent on the drug, which was launched in 1988 to treat depression, and was later introduced to treat obsessive disorders and bulimia now expires sooner than expected, though the company says it will appeal. 

 Eli Lilly stocks plunged 30.9 percent, or 33-9/16 dollars to 75 dollars. 

 On the bond market, the yield on 10-year Treasury bonds eased to 5.909 percent versus 5.914 percent late Tuesday, and to 5.726 percent on the 30-year bond from 5.732 percent. 

 Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions. 

 Cisco rose 2-5/16 dollars to 67-13/16 dollars, while Wal-Mart lost 4-3/8  to 53-1/8 and Kmart, whose results are expected Thursday, lost 1/8 to 7-3/16. 

 Software.com, which is set for a six-billion-dollar merger with Phone.com rose a hefty 34-11/16 dollars, or 32.2 percent, to 142-7/ 16, while Phone.com also rose 13-1/16, or 16.7 percent, at 91-1/8. 

 Semi-conductor manufacturer Applied Materials rose 1-9/16 at 72-1/ 8. 

 Intel finished up 1-15/16 at 63-9/16, Micron Technology was up 2- 7/8 at 80-7/16, Texas Instruments was also 1-1/16 higher at 60-9/16, while Advanced Micro Devices fell 9/16 at 60-7/16 dollars. 

 IBM also rose 3/16 at 119-1/8, Microsoft was up 1/8 at 74-1/4 and Apple also increased 3/4 at 47-1/2, while Hewlett-Packard lost 1-5/8 at 114-3/16, Oracle fell 1-5/8 at 81-3/8 and Sun Microsystems lost 1/ 8 at 113-3/4. 

 Among the pharmaceuticals, Johnson and Johnson lost 1-7/8 at 94- 13/16, Pfizer 2-13/16 at 42-1/8, and Schering-Plough 1-9/16 at 41-7/ 16. However, Bristol-Myers Squibb rose 5/8 at 52 dollars. 

 cs/jlp/mdl 

Document afpr000020010803dw89037xz


Newscast: Business news and stock report   

352 words
9 August 2000
CBS News: Morning News
CBSM
English
(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

DIANA OLICK, anchor:   

On Wall Street, the blue chips had their seventh straight winning day. The Dow was up 109 points to close at 10,976.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Dow Jones Industrials   

10,976.89   

up 109.88   

Volume: 992,290,000   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

OLICK: The NASDAQ finished at 3,848, down just 14 points.   

(Graphic on screen)   

NASDAQ   

3,848.55   

down 14.44   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

OLICK: And in Tokyo overnight, the Nikkei gained 214 points, just over 1 percent.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Tokyo Nikkei Average   

16,034.60   

up 214.49   

Change: up 1.36%   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

OLICK: On the CBS MarketWatch, Amanda Grove with some of Tuesday's winners and losers.   

AMANDA GROVE reporting:   

A stronger than expected second quarter productivity report sent the Dow surging for the seventh straight session. Productivity for US companies jumped 5.3 percent. Dow movers included  Eastman Kodak,  Microsoft and  Wal-Mart.Microsoft shares surged after the announcement of a buyback plan. But investors hung up on ailing telecom giant Verizon after the company disappointed on the earnings front. And soapmaker Dial came out with a profit warning. The company says it will not meet analysts' annual profit expectations. In addition, its chief executive and chief financial officer resigned.   

On the NASDAQ, trading was lackluster ahead of  Cisco's earnings report. After the close,  Cisco reported earnings that beat analysts' expectations by a penny. In after-hours trading, it was trading higher than two.   

And a successful IPO to tell you about. Active Power skyrocketed 210 percent on its first day of trading. This is an alternative energy company. Later in the week, investors can expect some economic data; the jobless claims report on Thursday and the Producer Price Index on Friday. Reporting from the NASDAQ Marketsite, I'm Amanda Grove for CBS MarketWatch.   

OLICK: And as always, for the latest market information, click on cbs.marketwatch.com.   

Straight ahead on the CBS MORNING NEWS, your Wednesday morning weather.   

And in sports, David Justice with a ninth inning game winner for the Yankees.   

(Announcements)   

Document CBSM000020070818dw8900258




Breakfast Briefing // Nation World
FINANCIAL
Worker productivity up again 

603 words
9 August 2000
Chicago Sun-Times
CHI
English
© 2000 Chicago Sun Times.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.  All rights reserved.  

WASHINGTON-Americans' productivity surged ahead over the past 12 months at the fastest pace in 17 years while labor costs declined, the first time they have dropped since 1984, the Labor Department reported Tuesday. Wall Street reacted positively, with the Dow Jones industrial average, which gained 99 points Monday, gaining 109.88 to close at 10,976.89. The Standard &Poor's 500 index was up 3.48 at 1,482.80, but the Nasdaq composite index fell 14.44 to 3,848.55 as technology stocks succumbed to profit-taking. 

Cisco earnings top expectations 

SAN JOSE, Calif.-Sales at Cisco Systems Inc. surged 61 percent as the Internet networking giant beat Wall Street's expectations. For its fourth quarter, Cisco earned $796 million, or 11 cents per share, compared with $605 million, or 8 cents per share, in the year-ago period. Excluding special charges, Cisco earned $1.2 billion, or 16 cents a share, up from $710 million or 10 cents a share, in its fiscal 1999 fourth quarter. Analysts surveyed by First Call; Thomson Financial were expecting the San Jose, Calif.-based company to earn 15 cents per share. Revenue was $5.72 billion, up 61 percent. 

Dial in a lather over earnings 

PHOENIX-Dial Corp.'s board replaced its top two executives as the consumer product maker warned it would fall short of Wall Street's earnings expectations for the year. The Scottsdale, Ariz.-based maker of Dial soap, Purex laundry detergent and Armour Star canned meats said Tuesday it had named board member Herbert M. Baum, the No. 2 executive at toymaker Hasbro Inc., as its new chairman, chief executive and president. Baum replaces Malcolm Jozoff, who resigned those posts and his seat on the board. Jozoff had been chairman and chief executive since 1996. Susan J. Riley, chief financial officer since 1997, also resigned. Jack Tierney, Dial's controller, was named acting CFO. 

Ralcorp, Agribrands to reunite 

ST. LOUIS-Private-label foodmaker Ralcorp Holdings Inc. and Agribrands International Inc., both former divisions of Ralston Purina Co., have agreed to get back together. The merger-of-equals transaction, announced Tuesday, would create a company with approximately $2.3 billion in annual sales. Both companies are based in St. Louis. No layoffs are planned. 

Theater chain turns to Chap. 11 

WILMINGTON, Del.-Carmike Cinemas Inc., the No. 3 U.S. movie- theater chain, filed for bankruptcy protection from creditors less than a week after failing to make $9 million in interest payments to bondholders. The Columbus, Ga.-based chain listed $841.1 million in assets and $652.8 million in debts in its Chapter 11 petition Tuesday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Del. 

VP Russo hangs up on Lucent 

MURRAY HILL, N.J.-Lucent Technologies Inc. said Executive Vice President Pat Russo will resign as Chief Executive Rich McGinn reorganizes the biggest maker of phone equipment in the wake of a profit warning. The decision to leave was hers, Lucent said. Russo, a 19-year veteran at Lucent and former parent AT&T Corp., became head of sales and product development for companies that run phone and data networks in October after Carleton Fiorina left the company to become CEO of Hewlett-Packard Co. 

FirstEnergy will buy rival GPU 

AKRON, Ohio-FirstEnergy Corp. is buying rival GPU Inc. for $4.5 billion in cash and stock, forming one of the nation's biggest investor-owned electric power utilities, with customers in Ohio, Pennsylvania and New Jersey. The companies expect to serve about 4.3 million customers.  

Document chi0000020010804dw8900lbk




 Report on Business: International 
 Phone giant Verizon issues  profit warning  Poor forecast, labour strife clobber share price 

 BRUCE MEYERSON 
Associated Press
408 words
9 August 2000
The Globe and Mail
GLOB
Metro
B6
English
 All material copyright Thomson Canada Limited or its licensors. All rights reserved. 

 New York -- Already beset by a potentially crippling strike, Verizon Communications Inc. rankled investors yesterday with a worrisome profit forecast that dashed any initial enthusiasm over a major new alliance in high-speed Internet services. 

 The disappointing profit update came amid escalating tensions in this week's strike against Verizon by 87,200 workers. However, the three-day conflict wasn't to blame in the revised outlook from the giant telephone company, which was formed in June through the merger of Bell Atlantic and GTE. 

 The reaction was swift on the New York Stock Exchange, where Verizon slid 12 per cent to the lowest level in more than a year, falling $5.81 (U.S.) a share to close at $42.06. 

 Partly overshadowed by the day's troubles was an agreement by Verizon to merge its DSL businesses with NorthPoint Communications Group,an upstart provider of the high-speed Internet service. 

 Industry observers said the partnership would help Verizon's aggressive move into DSL, a technology used to overcome the capacity constraints of a copper phone wire to deliver speedier, "broadband" connections to the Web. DSL stands for digital subscriber line. 

 As part of the agreement, NorthPoint will be the primary provider of high-speed Internet access for Verizon, which will sell those services under the NorthPoint brand name. Even before their merger, Bell Atlantic and GTE had been pouring billions of dollars into upgrading their mostly consumer telephone networks for DSL. By contrast with Verizon, NorthPoint only provides DSL service, though mostly to high-paying business customers. 

 The deal, similar to an alliance formed last year between Prodigy and Verizon rival SBC Communications, calls for Verizon to invest $800-million in the combined DSL business in exchange for a 55-per-cent stake in NorthPoint. 

 Verizon's troubles may have weighed on NorthPoint shares, which fell 5 per cent, or 75 cents, to close at $14.25 on the Nasdaq Stock Market. 

 In yesterday's profit report, Verizon said second-quarter operating profit totalled $1.97-billion or 72 cents a share at Bell Atlantic and GTE, which completed their merger near the end of the three-month period. 

 But casting a cloud over the report, Verizon also reduced its profit forecast for the second half of the year as well as 2001 and 2002. 

Document glob000020010806dw89013bs




 Sierra Pacific plans power hike 

243 words
9 August 2000
21:26
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 RENO, Nev. (AP) - Electricity customers of Sierra Pacific Resources will see an increase in their bills, with residential users around Las Vegas getting a bigger hike than folks in the north. 

 Most of the state will feel a 1 percent-2 percent boost starting abut Oct. 1 in compliance with a regulatory compromise that the company expects will net between $5 million and $10 million. 

 However Las Vegas and surrounding residential customers of the utility will see their bills rise sooner and more sharply: 4.7 percent as of Aug. 1, or a total of $48 million. 

 Sierra Pacific on Monday reported a second-quarter net loss of $20.2 million, or 26 cents a share. Analysts had expected earnings of 33 cents, but a profit warning in mid-July muted the effect of the steep earnings slide. 

 The company's stock was up 64 cents, to $16.64 on Monday, rose again slightly Tuesday to $16.69 then slipped 25 cents on Wednesday to $16.45 on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 The regulatory pact reached with the Nevada Public Utilities Commission late last month allows Sierra Pacific's Nevada Power unit to recoup $48 million in future costs by levying the 4.7 percent increase in southern Nevada. 

 The projected increase of 1 percent to 2 percent in northern Nevada was part of a compromise in an ongoing rate dispute between the company and regulators. 

Rush

Document aprs000020010803dw890gens




 Lucent Seeks Operating Chief; Russo Resigns Service Provider CEO Post 

310 words
8 August 2000
14:07
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 MURRAY HILL, N.J. -(Dow Jones)- Lucent Technologies Inc. said it is seeking a chief operating officer as part of the planned spin off its enterprise and microelectronics businesses as it tries to regain its footing. 

 Lucent Chairman and CEO Richard McGinn said the company is looking for a COO "to make Lucent the most competitive company in this exciting industry." 

 In light of the ongoing realignment, Lucent (LU) said Patricia Russo, chief executive and executive vice president of Lucent's service provider networks group resigned to pursue other opportunities. Lucent plans to discontinue the service provider CEO position, and Ms. Russo noted that the "time is right" to look for new ventures outside the company. She was appointed to her post last October when the telecommunications and networking-equipment giant realigned into four divisions to concentrate on high-growth areas. 

 Early next year Lucent intends to spin off its microelectronics business in an initial public offering. The unit makes silicon chips and optoelectronic components, such as lasers, for communications systems. Lucent also plans to separate some other slower-growth businesses as it seeks to battle rivals like Nortel Networks Corp. and regain Wall Street's favor after jolting investors early this year with a first-quarter profit warning and announcing in July that earnings for the next two quarters will miss expectations. Lucent blamed the outlook on fast declining sales of traditional telephone-switching products and slower-than-expected efforts to boost production in optical networking and other new areas. 

 Last week the company said it would split its optical-networking group into core and metropolitan networking units to coincide with the retirement of the group's president, Harry Bosco. 

 (Compiled from Dow Jones Newswires and other sources) 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020020330dw8801jkg




 Dial, Looking To Clean Up Its Act, Reduces Outlook Again 

 By Cathleen Egan 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
691 words
8 August 2000
17:46
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Soiled with problems ranging from declining sales and market share to bloated inventories and high raw material costs, Dial Corp. (DL) on Tuesday aired some dirty laundry: a grim financial outlook that some observers say may take years from which to truly recover. 

 The Scottsdale, Ariz., consumer products company said it not only would miss an already-reduced third-quarter earnings target, but warned that it would trim profit goals for the year, too. Just where those goals would be trimmed to, analysts are not sure. The company provided virtually no guidance. 

 Herbert M. Baum, an outside director who has replaced Malcolm Jozoff as president and chief executive of the company, said he would need 30 days to gauge the magnitude of Dial's problems. Afterward, he said, Dial will arrange a meeting with analysts in New York to provide a better idea where earnings for the quarter stand. 

 Baum also said he will need 60 to 90 days to put together a plan for 2001. 

 In the meantime, analysts are having to do what they like least - guessing. With no assistance from the company, analysts are having to put together financial models on Dial that conclude with an unguided bottom-line number. 

 "It's really a shot in the dark," said George K. Baum & Co. analyst John Hughes. 

 Most analysts, including Hughes, have settled on a general range of 60 cents a share to 65 cents for the year. Even at the high end, that's 80% below the $1.17 a share the company earned in 1999. It's also a sharp drop from analysts' previous estimate of 77 cents, which itself was the result of a company profit warning just last month. 

 At the heart of the company's problems is a world in which mid-sized consumer products makers like Dial are finding it increasingly more difficult to compete and survive. Bigger players like Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) and Unilever NV (UN UL) dominate market positions and expanding retailers are the heavy on matters of pricing and shelf placement. 

 "Basically the middle tier is gone," said Banc of America Securities LLC analyst Bill Steele. 

 At Dial, specifically, troubles have been aplenty. For starters the company tried to sell a new and improved Dial Soap bar, but found that retailers hadn't yet worked through inventories of the old version of the soap. The result? Overstocked shelves in Dial warehouses. Sales dropped. Margins pinched. 

 The company also ran into problems with its joint-venture partner Henkel KGaA (G.HEN) of Germany. The pair developed Purex Advance, an upgraded version of Dial's well-known Purex detergent. The problem was, analysts said, that the team was trying to enter a segment of the market that is already flooded with competitors, and big ones at that. The result? Sales haven't taken off. 

 Other problems compounded, including what is now perceived to be weak management. Dial issued two quarterly profit warnings. Tuesday's announcement makes the company's third in a row. The stock has dropped 50% just this year. 

 Dial's predicament has led many to believe the company will eventually be sold to a larger competitor. Names such as Sara Lee Corp. (SLE), Unilever, Henkel and Kao Corp. (J.KAO) of Japan have already been tossed around as possible suitors. Even Baum did not rule out such a move. 

 "There are no sacred cows," he said many times during a half-hour conference call with analysts and investors Tuesday morning. Baum was not made available for further comment. 

 But what must come first, observers say, is a righting of the ship. 

 "The key is to fix the company," said Credit Suisse First Boston Corp. analyst Carol Wilke. To that end, she said, Dial will have to rejuvenate sales, reevaluate its joint-venture partnership with Henkel, ease inventory levels and possibly get out of some underperforming businesses, like specialty personal care. 

 -Cathleen Egan, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5289; 

 -e-mail: cathleen.egan@dowjones.com 

Document dj00000020010805dw88033o5




 Hasbro Inc. President, Operating Chief Herb Baum Resigns 

459 words
8 August 2000
11:32
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 (Corrected 06:41 AM) 

 06:32 AM 

 SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. (Dow Jones)--Dial Corp. (DL) confirmed Tuesday that its chairman and chief executive, Malcolm Jozoff, resigned, and that it named Herbert M. Baum, Hasbro Inc.'s (HAS) president and chief operating officer, as its new chairman, chief executive and president. 

 Dial, a consumer products company, also said it doesn't expect to meet consensus analyst earnings estimates of 77 cents a share for the current fiscal year ending Dec. 31. 

 Dial's chief financial officer, Susan J. Riley, also resigned, which The Wall Street Journal reported in its Tuesday editions. Riley also was executive vice president. 

 The company named Jack Tierney acting chief financial officer. Tierney is Dial's controller. 

 The latest earnings warning comes a little more than a month after Dial reported that per-share profit for the year would be 25% to 30% below 1999 levels. In 1999, the consumer product company earned $1.17 a diluted share. 

 Baum, Dial's new president, chairman and chief executive, said he already began "an intensive review of all aspects of Dial's business. There will be no sacred cows, and we will do whatever we conclude makes sense to create shareholder value." 

 Before working at Hasbro, Baum was chairman and chief executive at Quaker State Corp. before its acquisition by Pennzoil Products Co. He also worked at Campbell Soup Co. (CPB). 

 Baum will join Dial on Monday. 

 The missed 77-cents-a-share estimate for Dial's full-year earnings comes despite expectations revised downward by analysts. 

 On July 24, a First Call/Thomson Financial survey of 11 analysts produced a mean earnings estimate of 81 cents a share for Dial for 2000. On June 28, the estimate was $1.18 a share. 

 Dial's stock reached a 52-week high of 31 Sept. 15 and a 52-week low of 10 June 30. New York Stock Exchange-listed shares of Dial closed Monday unchanged at 12 13/16. 

 Company Web site: http://www.dialcorp.com

 -Lisa Reynolds; Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5400 

 The missed 77-cents-a-share estimate for Dial's full-year earnings comes despite expectations revised downward by analysts. 

 On July 24, a First Call/Thomson Financial survey of 11 analysts produced a mean earnings estimate of 81 cents a share for Dial for 2000. On June 28, the estimate was $1.18 a share. 

 Dial's stock reached a 52-week high of 31 Sept. 15 and a 52-week low of 10 June 30. New York Stock Exchange-listed shares of Dial closed Monday unchanged at 12 13/16. 

 Company Web site: http://www.dialcorp.com

 -Lisa Reynolds; Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5400 

Document dj00000020010805dw880332y




DBusiness
Trading to be investigated

From Journal Sentinel wire reports   
82 words
7 August 2000
The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel
MLWK
Final
01
English
Copyright 2000, The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

Three congressmen are asking federal regulators to investigate allegations of trading irregularities at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. Their request follows reports that some traders in the Nasdaq 100 stock-index futures pit may have used pagers to give each other advance warning of major buy or sell orders. Such orders could cause fluctuations in the market, and traders with advanced knowledge could easily profit. Exchange executives have called the reports "unsubstantiated rumors."

Document MLWK000020100320dw87001ck




 Congressmen Request Probe of Allegations About CME Trading 

201 words
7 August 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
C17
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 CHICAGO (AP) -- Three congressmen are asking federal regulators to investigate allegations of trading irregularities at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. 

 Their request follows reports that some traders in the Nasdaq 100 stock-index futures pit may have used pagers to give each other advance warning of major buy or sell orders. Such orders could cause fluctuations in the market, and traders with advance knowledge could easily profit. Exchange executives have called the reports "unsubstantiated rumors." 

 Reps. John Dingell (D., Mich.), Edward Markey (D., Mass.) and Edolphus Towns (D., N.Y.) signed a letter asking for an investigation. The letter was sent Thursday to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

 "We believe it is no coincidence that the timing of this letter coincides with extensive political activity," said Craig Donohue, a managing director at the CME. Some officials at the exchange believe the congressmen's letter was motivated by opposition to a proposal by the exchange and the Chicago Board of Trade to lift regulations that apply to futures trading and to allow trading of futures contracts on individual stocks. 

 The SEC, which oversees the stock market, declined to comment. 

Document j000000020010807dw8700kiu




 Business Highlights 

629 words
7 August 2000
01:00
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 WASHINGTON (AP) - Workers at the nation's largest local telephone company walked off the job Sunday as negotiators tried to resolve contract issues involving working conditions and union representation for employees in the fast-growing wireless field. 

 The strike against Verizon Communications by two unions representing 87,200 workers began when their contract expired at 12:01 a.m. and affected operations in 12 Eastern states from Maine to Virginia. 

 Though no disruptions in basic telephone services were reported, the company warned its 25 million customers could experience delays in reaching directory assistance, getting repairs or having phones installed. 

 The company said late afternoon that a general framework had been reached with the unions, but the two parties still had serious matters to work through. 

 --- 

 CHICAGO (AP) - Three congressmen are asking federal regulators to investigate allegations of trading irregularities at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. 

 Their request follows reports that some traders in the Nasdaq 100 stock-index futures pit may have used pagers to give each other advance warning of major buy or sell orders. Such orders could cause fluctuations in the market, and traders with advanced knowledge could easily profit. 

 Exchange executives have called the reports "unsubstantiated rumors." 

 --- 

 CHICAGO (AP) - United Airlines canceled 80 flights at O'Hare International Airport on Sunday, a day after having to cancel more than 120 flights there because of a pilot shortage. The airline blamed the cancellations on pilots who have refused to worked overtime since their contract expired in April. 

 United spokesman Chris Brathwaite said many of the airline's pilots had already worked all their allotted weekly hours trying to make up for flights canceled Thursday and Friday because of bad weather in the East. 

 --- 

 WASHINGTON - The nation's unemployment rate held steady at 4 percent in July, near a three-decade low, as a revival in manufacturing helped soften the blow from a loss of 290,000 temporary Census jobs, the Labor Department reported. 

 Private economists said the unemployment report should lessen the threat of a seventh Federal Reserve interest rate increase. 

 --- 

 MIAMI (AP) - When Philip Morris reports its third-quarter results later this year, don't expect to see its share of the largest punitive award in history sullying the company's bottom line. 

 The New York-based food and tobacco conglomerate lost the biggest share of the $145 billion smokers' punitive damage award - $73.96 billion - but won't show any loss from the verdict on its books, at least for now. 

 Its reasoning is based on a two-pronged accounting rule in place for decades that requires companies to record liabilities when they can be estimated and are considered probable. 

 --- 

 LONDON (AP) - Internal tobacco industry documents recently made public confirm that izations will have to the Olympics. 

 --- 

 By The Associated Press 

 Stocks fluctuated for a second straight day Friday, eventually closing higher on employment data that may point to easing in the extremely tight job market. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average rose in early trading but fell just as abruptly in response to the July employment figures. A buying spree late in the session allowed blue chips stocks to close up 61.17 at 10,767.75. For the week, the Dow rose 256.58. The Nasdaq composite index closed up 27.48 at 3,787.36, slipping from a gain of more than 70 points earlier in the session. The technology heavy index also swung wildly on Thursday; it ended the week up 124.36. 

 Crude oil prices barged back into expensive $30-a-barrel territory again Friday on the New York Mercantile Exchange, rising nearly 5 percent on renewed concerns about shrinking U.S. stockpiles. 

 Natural gas prices also surged. 

 In other markets, silver fell sharply and cocoa tumbled 3 percent. 

Urgent

Document aprs000020010803dw870g8ea


C; NATION; AROUND THE NATION
ALBERTO BECOMES SEASON'S 1ST HURRICANE

FROM WIRE DISPATCHES AND STAFF REPORTS   
601 words
6 August 2000
The Washington Times
WATI
2
C4
English
Copyright 2000, News World Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

ALBERTO BECOMES SEASON'S 1ST HURRICANE

MIAMI - The first named tropical storm of the 2000 hurricane season intensified to hurricane strength yesterday but was not expected to threaten land anytime soon, forecasters said.

The storm, centered about 515 miles west of the Cape Verde Islands, had top sustained winds of 75 mph, passing the 74 mph threshold to become Hurricane Alberto, said Miles Lawrence, a specialist at the National Hurricane Center in Miami.

LAWMAKERS SEEK PROBE OF MERCANTILE EXCHANGE

CHICAGO - Three congressmen are asking federal regulators to investigate reports of trading irregularities at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.

Their request follows reports that some traders in the Nasdaq 100 stock-index futures pit may have used pagers to give each other advance warning of major buy or sell orders. Such orders could cause fluctuations in the market, and traders with advance knowledge could easily profit.

Democratic Reps. John Dingell of Michigan, Edward Markey of Massachusetts and Edolphus Towns of New York signed the letter sent Thursday to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Exchange executives have called the reports "unsubstantiated rumors."

`HOME ALONE' STAR SEPARATES FROM WIFE

NEW YORK - Macaulay Culkin, the child star of the 1990 film "Home Alone," has separated from actress Rachel Miner, his wife of two years, the New York Post reported yesterday.

Mr. Culkin, 19, met Miner, 20, in 1997 at the Professional Children's School in New York. They young couple married a year later in Connecticut.

"They have temporarily separated," Paul Bloch, Mr. Culkin's spokesman, was quoted as telling the Post. "It is very amicable, and they remain the best of friends."

FORMER BROADCASTER FOUND DEAD

BRECKSVILLE, Ohio - Authorities say a former Cleveland television and radio personality shot himself to death after reports surfaced that he mailed underwear and obscene messages to as many as 20 women.

Joel Rose, 64, was found dead Friday, the day the Cleveland Plain Dealer reported he was being investigated for the mailings. Mr. Rose, who had not been charged with a crime, denied the accusations in an interview Thursday night.

County Coroner Elizabeth Balraj ruled the death a suicide. The coroner said Mr. Rose shot himself in the head shortly after 6 a.m. outside his home in this Cleveland suburb and left behind four notes. Authorities would not release the content of the notes.

UNITED CANCELS 150 FLIGHTS AT O'HARE

CHICAGO - United Airlines canceled at least 150 flights at O'Hare International Airport yesterday, mostly because of a shortage of pilots.

Some had called in sick, but many of the missing pilots had already worked all their allotted weekly hours trying to make up for flights canceled Thursday and Friday because of bad weather in the East, United spokesman Chris Brathwaite said.

United pilots have refused to work overtime since their contract expired in April. The company and the pilots' union are negotiating a contract with a federal mediator.

JAILED PROTESTERS CLAIM MISTREATMENT

PHILADELPHIA - Activists say the detention center is filled with screams, that a man was handcuffed in a crucifix-position to force him to submit to fingerprinting, and that a woman on a hunger strike writhed on the floor from lack of water and food.

Philadelphia police deny the accusations and say they have treated the nearly 400 protesters arrested during the Republican National Convention fairly. Civil-rights attorneys who visited the detention center said they found no evidence to confirm abuse.

However, dozens of protesters told similar stories after their release.

Document WATI000020140719dw86008n2




 Opportunity for long-term investors. 

 By Neoh Soon Kean; Dynaquest Team. 
1,746 words
6 August 2000
Sunday Mail
SNDYML
12
English
(c) 2000 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad

 THE local market underwent another round of profit-taking during the period under review (26.7.00 - 2.8.00) amidst declines in major Asian bourses and Wall Street. The technical rebound that was much anticipated did not materialise as selling pressure in New York spilled over to the KLSE. 

 In the US, market sentiment was adversely affected by another round of profit warning by two tech heavyweights on Thursday and Friday's announcement of a stronger-than-expected GDP growth (+5.2%) for the second quarter ended June. 

 The latter raised concerns over a possible overheating of the US economy which may lead to another interest-rate hike when the Federal Reserve Board next meet to discuss interest rates on August 22. 

 The selldown of technology stocks spilled over to major Asian bourses which led to losses across the major global markets during the period under review (Dow Jones: -0.9%; FTSE-100: -0.2%; Nikkei-225: -1.8%; Hang Seng: -1.9%; and SES: -0.9%). 

 The KLSE was not spared by the bears either with market sentiment staying gloomy in the absence of new leads. 

 Investors found more reasons to stay away after the significant downgrades of the KLSE by Morgan Stanley and Salomon Barney last week. 

 This was made worse by the threat of a possible reversal in the country's monetary policy following Bank Negara's intervention since Wednesday to allow the support level for the overnight interbank rate to move higher. Interest rates may have to go up to counter the inflationary pressure expected to arise from a likely increase in prices of gasoline products in the near future. This gave investors an additional excuse to sell or stay away. 

 The market has been declining for eight straight days before news of the country's healthy trade surplus for June (RM4.9 billion) helped to check the downslide on Tuesday. 

 However, the rise could not be sustained and the market continued its downward march on Wednesday. 

 The absence of large participation of foreign funds combined with the bearish mood of the retailers and institutional players dragged the market down further during the period under review. 

 The blue-chip KLSE-CI lost 12.43 points (or -1.5%) while the all-share KLSE-EI lost 4.3 points (or -2.1%) to close at 802.53 and 201.19 points respectively. 

 The only consolation for the market players is perhaps the thinning volume which is generally accepted to signify a low level selling pressure. 

 The average daily trading volume for the period dwindled further to 88.1 million units (or -22.4%) with volume actually dropping to a 15-month low of 58.1 million units on the last day of review. 

 PORTFOLIO ANALYSIS 

 In line with the general market weakness, our Model General Portfolio also posted losses during the period under review. 

 The invested portion of the portfolio lost 2% over the previous week, outperforming marginally the overall market as measured by the KLSE-EI (-2.1%). 

 Two stocks bucked the market trend (M-Flour: +3% and Palmco: +1.9%), while Public Bank closed unchanged. The remaining 28 stocks posted losses ranging from -0.4% to -11.1%. 

 The biggest loser was Puncak - its share price suffered a major downward adjustment after its 1/2 Bonus and 1/4 rights issues went `ex' during the period under review. A distant second was HL-Ind (-5.8%) when its share price fell victim to the global selldown of technology shares. 

 Given the comparatively better performance during the period under review, it is not surprising that the Model General Portfolio continued to outperform the market. Since its inception in June 1997, the absolute return of the invested portion of the portfolio of 19.7% is still much better than the -35.6% return of the overall market. Including interest income, realised nett capital gains and dividends, the overall annualised returns of the portfolio of +22.2% compares very favourably to the 9.5% loss of the market. 

 Graph 2 summarises the performance of the 31 selected securities since purchase. 

 INVESTMENT STRATEGY AND ACTION 

 The market has failed to live up to expectations in recent weeks in the absence of strong fresh leads. However, the fact that trading volume is thinning in each market decline seems to suggest that the bottom of the market for the year is not far away. 

 We are staying with our previously stated belief that there is a great deal of support around the 750 level on the KLSE-CI (or 180 on the KLSE-EI). 

 While the immediate-term picture is difficult to predict with much accuracy, the recent fall in prices have reduced the downside risk of equity investment for serious long-term investors. Locally, the rosy economic picture and expectations of continued healthy corporate earnings growth are major plus points which should help to check the downslide in share prices soon. 

 The only uncertainty lies on the overseas front which can cause upsets and delay the much awaited technical rebound in the immediate term. 

 As we invest for the long term, we are not too perturbed by the market's recent fall. Still placing much faith on the country's speedy economic recovery and sustainable expansion to reverse the current bearish mood, we view the market correction more as an opportunity to accumulate undervalued, fundamentally-good stocks. 

 This week, we have decided to add another construction stock, Gamuda Bhd, into the Model General Portfolio to cash in on the recovery of the sector as its momentum seems to be gathering pace. 

 Gamuda's share price has recently been hammered down by shareholders who rejected its diversification into a totally-unrelated rechargeable-battery business. 

 The total investment of RM68 million in a 43.9% stake in Dyna Plastics is relatively small when compared to Gamuda's total shareholders equity which has slightly exceeded RM1 billion as at 30.4.00. 

 As the vendor of Dyna Plastics provides a profit guarantee of RM15 million for FY2001 and RM20 million for FY2000 ending June, we foresee little threat from the diversification attempt. 

 Hence, we have decided to add 1,000 shares of Gamuda into the Model General Portfolio this week. The purchase will raise the invested weighting of the portfolio by a small margin from 84.5% to 85.4%. 

 PURCHASE OF 1,000 SHARES OF GAMUDA BHD (GAMUDA) 

 Gamuda boasts various records in the local construction industry. It has secured the largest number of construction jobs in the country totalling some RM2.3 billion to date and is the first contractor to own stakes in three highway concessions - the RM1.3-billion Lebuhraya Damansara-Puchong (LDP), RM1.1-billion Lebuhraya Shah Alam (Kesas) and the soon-to-be completed RM1.2-billion Lebuhraya Sprint. 

 Chances are high that Gamuda will secure a fourth highway concession - the RM2.4-billion KL Elevated Expressway. 

 The completion of the Kesas Highway in 1996 and the LDP early last year, plus the commencement of toll collection shortly after, have largely helped Gamuda to ride the economic storm unperturbed. Gamuda is among the few rare listed contractors with record earnings at the height of the crisis. 

 Both the Kesas Highway and the LDP, which run across the RM2 billion Kota Kemuning township in Selangor, have also helped to enhance sales of the group's flagship development scheme. 

 Prices of residential properties in Kota Kemuning have reportedly risen above the pre-crisis levels of late, reflecting the good potential of the self-contained scheme. 

 In fact, Gamuda's record showing in FY1999 was entirely due to the RM12.3 million increase in profit contribution from the property arm. 

 Perhaps due to its success, the group has recently expanded its presence in the property market. Eighty-per-cent owned Seni Pasifik has acquired 115ha of land adjacent to Sierramas in Sungei Buloh, Selangor, for RM86 million. The land, which has a golf course and club house, has been approved for residential development. 

 Gamuda's earnings record has been superb todate and is expected to be sustained with two new privatised projects in the pipeline. 

 The first project is the RM1.2-billion Sprint highway which commenced construction in late 1998. To be carried out over two phases, work on Phase 1 (Damansara-Semantan and Duta-Kerinchi links) has begun and is scheduled for completion next year while work on Phase 2 (Sungei Penchala-Jalan Duta) is expected to commence within three years with a construction time frame of three years. 

 The second project is the RM2 billion Sungei Selangor Water Supply Scheme Phase 3 (SSP3) project which is expected to begin construction in the 2Q of next year. 

 SSP3 involves the construction of a dam and two water treatment plants (totalling 1,050 mld) over five years on a fast-tracked basis. 

 Hence, the management's target of a 35% growth in earnings annually in the next three years appears attainable. 

 This will easily offset the potential dilutive impact that will arise from the exercise of its remaining warrants totalling 76.7 million units (as at 30.6.00) which will lift the share capital by about 12% over the next six years. 

 FY2000 appears set to be another record year with the EPS for the first three quarters of the financial year of 16.67 sen already hovering close to the full year adjusted figure of FY1999. 

 While the property arm contributed to the record showing in FY1999, significantly higher construction profits and the maiden contribution from the SSP3 project will spearhead the earnings growth in FY2000. 

 We estimate another record EPS for FY2000 at 24 sen. At Thursday's closing price of RM4.36, Gamuda is valued at a reasonable prospective PE multiple of 18.2 times (five-year midrange PER: 20.5 times). 

 The potential upside in its future pricing can be expected to come from at least two major sources - a probable increase in its PE valuation to the levels normally seen in the past of over 20 times and the expected healthy double-digit growth in earnings in the near to medium term. 

 The pending 1/4 warrants issue will likely be an added boost to its share pricing in the near future. 

 Hence, we are adding 1,000 shares of Gamuda into the Model General Portfolio for a total cost of RM4,411. 

Document sndyml0020010817dw86000uj




 News 
 NATIONAL ROUNDUP 

794 words
6 August 2000
The Star-Ledger Newark, NJ
NSL
FINAL
018
English
 (c) 2000. The Star-Ledger. All rights reserved. 

 United cancels flights as pilots shun overtime CHICAGO - United Airlines canceled at least 150 flights at O'Hare International Airport yesterday, mostly because of a shortage of pilots. 

 Some had called in sick, but many of the missing pilots had already worked all their allotted weekly hours trying to make up for flights canceled Thursday and Friday because of bad weather in the East, spokesman Chris Brathwaite said. 

 United pilots have refused to work overtime since their contract expired in April, Brathwaite said. The company and the pilots' union are negotiating a contract with a federal mediator and hope to have a new agreement in place by early September. 

 A pilots' union spokesman did not immediately return a call for comment yesterday. In the past, the union has denied having any organized effort to refuse overtime work. 

 United has about 960 flights per day out of O'Hare. Yesterday's cancellations totaled about half of the airline's cancellations systemwide. Malcolm X Plaza opens as Islamic-style garden NEW YORK - In tribute to the slain black leader, the new $1 million Malcolm X Plaza in Harlem opened yesterday as an Islamic-style garden that replaces a crumbling sidewalk. 

 The plaza on 110th Street, at the junction of Malcolm X Boulevard and St. Nicholas Avenue, was officially unveiled at a morning ribbon-cutting ceremony attended by members of his family, community leaders and city officials. 

 Representing Malcolm X's Muslim faith, the plaza is landscaped as a replica of an Islamic garden, with benches, chairs and tables amid trees, shrubs and white roses. It was jointly designed by the city's Department of Design and Construction and Cityscape Institute, a not-for-profit urban design group. 

 A statue of the civil rights leader gunned down in the Audubon Ballroom in Harlem in 1965 will eventually be added to the site. 

 Malcolm X was at the forefront of the 1960s civil rights struggle that accompanied the rise of the Muslim faith in America, with competing branches of the movement active in Harlem. Three men with ties to the Nation of Islam were convicted in the slaying and served prison terms. Trading breaches probed at Mercantile Exchange CHICAGO - Three congressmen are asking federal regulators to investigate allegations of trading irregularities at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. 

 Their request follows reports that some traders in the Nasdaq 100 stock-index futures pit may have used pagers to give each other advance warning of major buy or sell orders. Such orders could cause fluctuations in the market, and traders with advanced knowledge could easily profit. 

 Exchange executives have called the reports "unsubstantiated rumors." 

 ''We believe it is no coincidence that the timing of this letter coincides with extensive political activity," said Craig Donohue, a managing director at the Mercantile Exchange. 

 Some officials at the exchange believe the congressmen's letter was motivated by opposition to a proposal by the exchange and the Chicago Board of Trade to lift regulations that apply to futures trading and to allow trading of futures contracts on individual stocks. 

 Reps. John Dingell (D-Mich.), Edward Markey (D-Mass.), and Edolphus Towns (D-N.Y.) signed the letter sent Thursday to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission asking for an investigation. 

 Traders in the Nasdaq pit who were interviewed by the Chicago Sun-Times on Friday said the reports of improper behavior are false and that they've witnessed no forms of illegal trading. 

 The SEC, which oversees the stock market, declined comment. TV-radio man kills self after lingerie allegations BRECKSVILLE, Ohio - Authorities say a former Cleveland television and radio personality shot himself to death after allegations surfaced that he mailed underwear and obscene messages to as many as 20 women. 

 Joel Rose, 64, was found dead Friday, the day the (Cleveland) Plain Dealer reported he was being investigated for the mailings. Rose, who had not been charged with a crime, denied the accusations in an interview Thursday night. 

 County coroner Elizabeth Balraj ruled the death a suicide. Balraj said Rose shot himself in the head shortly after 6 a.m. outside his home in this Cleveland suburb and left behind four notes. Authorities would not release the content of the notes. 

 The Plain Dealer reported yesterday that several women said they received anonymous packages around the holidays that usually contained lingerie and alarming messages. Three women who said they were victims of the bizarre mailings discussed the case with the newspaper on the condition they not be identified. 

 Rose worked for Cleveland's WEWS-TV for about 16 years and had radio talk shows on several stations. He left television in 1983 to run a public relations and marketing firm and returned briefly in the 1990s. 

Document nsl0000020010808dw86015sb




 Congressmen seek investigation of Merc accounting procedures 

262 words
5 August 2000
19:28
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 CHICAGO (AP) - Three Democratic congressmen want federal regulators to investigate operations at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange's Nasdaq 100 stock-index futures pit. 

 Reps. John Dingell, D-Mich., Edward Markey, D-Mass., and Edolphus Towns, D-N.Y., signed a letter sent Thursday to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission asking for the probe. 

 The letter comes on the heels of reports that some Merc traders may have used pagers to give each other advance warning of a major buy or sell order. Such orders could cause a change in the market, and a trader could profit from knowing they were coming. 

 Exchange executives called the reports "unsubstantiated rumors," and claimed the congressmen's letter was motivated by their opposition to a proposal by the Merc and the Chicago Board of Trade to lift regulations that apply to futures trading and to allow trading of futures contracts on individual stocks. 

 "We believe it is no coincidence that the timing of this letter coincides with extensive political activity," said Craig Donohue, a managing director at the Merc. 

 Traders in the Nasdaq pit who were interviewed by the Chicago Sun-Times on Friday said the reports of improper behavior are false and that they've witnessed no forms of illegal trading. 

 A spokesman for the CFTC, which regulates futures trading, said the agency is "taking all the necessary steps to assure that investor confidence in the integrity of this market is maintained." The SEC, which oversees the stock market, declined comment. 

Rush

Document aprs000020010803dw850g440




 Nasdaq rallies after early dip. 

451 words
4 August 2000
The Scotsman
SC
21
English
(c) 2000

 US stocks rose yesterday, led by a rebound in computer and Internet equipment issues, amid signs that investors had decided the recent technology sector sell-off had been too severe. 

 Technology stocks dropped initially on concern that profit growth for some companies may be lower than expected in the second half. The sector bounced back to end higher by the close. 

 The rally was far from broad-based, however, as Wall Street remained jittery ahead of the government's release today of employment data for July, which is likely to yield clues as to whether the Federal Reserve will continue to raise interest rates. 

 The technology-dominated Nasdaq Composite Index gained 101.40 points, or 2.77 per cent, to 3,759.86. Earlier it had been down more than 3 per cent. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 19.05 points to 10,706.58, lifted mainly by strength in its technology and financial services components. Among them, IBM gained 1-3/8 to 116-1/16 and JP Morgan advanced 3 to 135. 

 Retailers were mostly lower amid concern about the impact of slow same-store sales in July on earnings. 

 Wal-Mart declined 9/16 to 53-1/2 after it reported its July sales at stores open at least a year rose 6.5 per cent. 

 The Gap tumbled 7-7/8 to 30-1/16 after the retailer said second-quarter earnings would fall short of analysts' estimates, marking its second profit warning in a month. 

 The moves in the technology, telecommunications and media area were far from all one way. Kulicke & Soffa Industries which makes equipment for assembling computer chips, said issues relating to order shipments "may impact financial performance" for the current quarter and the first quarter of 2001. Its stock dropped 5-1/2 to 16-5/8. 

 Motorola was still limping after its shares were hit by speculation that the company has changed its outlook for handset shipments. But a spokesman said Motorola had not altered its guidance. The shares ended down 3/4 at 36-1/16. 

 A smattering of economic data showed the US economy continued to hum along, perhaps too much for the likes of the inflation-busting Federal Reserve, but analysts were more focused on tomorrow's July employment figures. 

 "I think what is going on is that we are sitting on the edge of a two-sided sword," said Arnie Owen, managing director of capital markets at Roth Capital Partners. "On one side, we get slowing economic growth, which could be good to avoid interest-rate hikes. But on the other side, everyone is adjusting numbers downward because of slowing growth." 

Document sc00000020010816dw840080i




 Business 
 Nation & World 

Compiled from wire reports
661 words
4 August 2000
San Antonio Express-News
SAEN
Metro
02D
English
 (c) Copyright 2000 San Antonio Express-News. All Rights Reserved. 

 Burger King names chief of North America 

 MIAMI - Burger King Corp., the world's No. 2 fast-food chain, named Mikel Durham president of its North American business, effective immediately. 

 Durham, 37, was global strategy director of the Guinness beer unit at Burger King's parent company, London-based spirits maker Diageo Plc. She replaces Paul Clayton, who left in February to become chief executive of closely held Jamba Juice Co. 

 Durham will report to Colin Storm, acting chief executive of Burger King. Storm replaced Dennis Malmatinas, who announced his resignation last month. Diageo will continue its search for a CEO for the restaurant chain, the company said. 

 Ex-Wall Street exec gets 8-month sentence 

 NEW YORK - A former top Wall Street executive who gave inside information on bank stocks to an X-rated movie actress was sentenced to eight months in prison Thursday. 

 James McDermott Jr., 49, turned toward more than 50 spectators at his sentencing and apologized to his wife and daughters. 

 "Where I see weakness and cowardice, they saw strength and courage," he said in a firm voice, which had become a fixture on TV financial programs when he was chief executive of the New York investment bank Keefe, Bruyette & Woods. 

 McDermott lost his job after he gave inside information to Kathryn Gannon, a Canadian woman known as Marylin Star in the X-rated movie industry. 

 Interest rates mixed on 30-year mortgages 

 WASHINGTON - Mortgage rates were mixed this week with 30-year mortgages edging down slightly. 

 The average interest rate on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages declined to 8.12 percent for the week ending Aug. 4, compared with 8.13 percent the previous week, according to a survey released Thursday by Freddie Mac, the mortgage company. 

 In mid-May, rates on 30-year mortgages hit a five-year high of 8.64 percent. Even with declines in recent weeks, 30-year mortgages are still above the 7.89 percent level where they were a year ago. 

 Fifteen-year mortgages, a popular option for refinancing, ticked up slightly this week, rising to 7.88 percent, up from 7.85 percent last week. 

 On one-year adjustable-rate mortgages, lenders were asking an average initial rate of 7.28 percent, down slightly from last week's rate of 7.29 percent. 

 Lucent Technologies splits optical gear unit 

 MURRAY HILL, N.J. - Lucent Technologies Inc., the No. 1 maker of phone equipment, said it will split its optical networking business into two units and announced the retirement of the group's president, Harry Bosco. 

 Lucent appointed Jeong Kim, the business's chief operating officer, president of a unit that makes gear to beam traffic across long-distance optical networks. Bob Barron, who joined Lucent in June when it bought Chromatis Networks Inc., will lead the division that makes equipment used in regional, so-called metro fiber-optic networks. 

 Chief executive Richard McGinn promised management changes on July 20 after warning profit would lag forecasts for the next two quarters. 

 Disney's profit rose 79% in third quarter 

 BURBANK, Calif. - Walt Disney Co., the world's No. 2 media company, said its fiscal third-quarter profit rose 79 percent, more than expected, on higher ad sales at the top-rated ABC TV network and attendance at its theme parks. 

 Net income, including Disney's interest in Go.com Inc. and related amortization, rose to $440 million, or 21 cents a share, from $246 million, or 12 cents, in the year-ago period. Profit excluding Go.com rose to $633 million, or 30 cents a share, from $427 million, or 20 cents. 

 Revenue rose 9 percent to $5.96 billion from $5.45 billion as advertisers paid higher rates to Disney's networks and its theme parks attracted more visitors. "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire" has led to a 16 percent increase in ABC's prime-time ratings this season. 

Document saen000020010813dw8400m9i




 M&A Midyear Review 
 Wachovia Buys Ammo for Affluent Market 

 BY AMY L. ANDERSON 
1,292 words
2 August 2000
American Banker
AMB
6A
Vol. 165, No. 147
English
 Copyright (c) 2000 American Banker, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

 If there is one common strategy among U.S. banks, it is to grab a piece of the rapidly growing affluent market. A one-two punch of acquisitions last September put Wachovia Corp. in a rarefied section of that market. 

 On Sept. 1, Wachovia - which has dual headquarters in Winston-Salem, N.C., and Atlanta - bought the New York investment firm Offitbank Holdings Inc. for $200 million. The following day Wachovia acquired the Charlotte, N.C.-based insurance company Barry, Evans, Josephs & Snipes Inc. Wachovia did not disclose the terms of that deal. 

 Each of the acquired firms is small, highly regarded in the industry, and caters to the very, very rich - typically people with over $10 million of assets. 

 "What we wanted to do with each acquisition was leverage existing client relationships to the best possible place in the industry," said W. Robert Newell, an executive vice president of Wachovia's bank subsidiary who heads private banking, personal trust, and investment management. 

 The idea was to cap $70 billion-asset Wachovia's burgeoning wealth management initiative with the sort of top-end services that the average bank investment program does not provide, Mr. Newell said. 

 Since 1996, the base of Wachovia's wealth management program has been the Private Financial Advisors Group, which serves clients with $500,000 to $10 million of assets. About 43,000 households now work with Wachovia sales teams that cover investments, trust, credit, mortgage, estate planning, philanthropy planning, and business banking. 

 The Offitbank and Barry Evans acquisitions extend those services to clients with assets of $10 million or more. Barry Evans specializes in designing wealth transfer and benefit plans for affluent families and benefit plans for corporate executives. 

 Offitbank manages about $11 billion of assets in separate accounts and mutual funds for the "deca-millionaire" crowd, with particular expertise in fixed-income products. Approximately 60% of its clients have over $30 million in managed assets with the firm. 

 The goal, of course, is to refer high-net-worth Wachovia clients to Offitbank and Barry Evans for more sophisticated asset management and insurance services. 

 Offitbank's fixed-income expertise complements Wachovia's equity investing expertise, so the firms are working on developing products together, with distribution through both Offitbank and Wachovia, Mr. Newell said. Wachovia is already selling some of Offitbank's mutual funds to Wachovia customers, and Wachovia's equity managers are providing services to Offitbank customers in the form of separate accounts. 

 At the same time, Wachovia is providing trust, financing, and other services to existing clients of Offitbank and Barry Evans. The companies are not disclosing the number of referrals between Wachovia and its new subsidiaries, but Mr. Newell said he was pleased. Morris W. Offit, the chief executive officer of Offitbank, and Richard A. Snipes Jr., the chairman of Barry Evans, concurred. 

 In fact, Wachovia's recent credit difficulties - the company issued a profit warning in June due to problem loans - have overshadowed an impressive effort to boost fee revenue, observers said. 

 According to Wachovia, four months of Offitbank revenue had accounted for 6% of Wachovia's total investment-related income in 1999, which was $223 million. Insurance revenue, which was $24 million, grew 68% in 1999, with Barry Evans accounting for more than one-third of the increase. 

 "It's the right strategy, and they're approaching it in the right fashion," said Richard X. Bove, an equities analyst at Raymond James in St. Petersburg, Fla. 

 "The whole key in the financial service industry is to build the customer base in whatever fashion possible because it provides you with inventory into which to sell products," Mr. Bove said. 

 Wachovia has a long tradition of serving businessmen, he said, adding that the acquisitions give the bank a chance to "hit the businessperson in a specific market and generate a full relationship." 

 Deca-millionaires may not be common, but they are growing in number. According to a recent study by VIP Forum, a Washington research firm that focuses on issues related to the high-net-worth market, there were 111,800 U.S. households with more than $10 million of investable assets in the first quarter 2000. The number of deca-millionaire households has grown by 17.4% a year since 1995. 

 Clearly, most of Wachovia's customers will never come within range of that demographic. Pre-merger, Wachovia managed about $6 billion for ultra-high net worth customers, out of more than $41 billion of assets under management. 

 "We have tremendous wealth creation events," Mr. Newell said. Business owners selling out, corporate recapitalizations, and leveraged finance "all create capital in the hands of business owners," he said. "The size of this market is what's so intriguing." 

 And Wachovia, with more than five million customers and bank branches throughout the southeastern United States, has a wide customer base to draw on. 

 "When you have a client base the size of Wachovia, you have a percentage of people who will respond to the Offitbank type of service," said David Ross Palmer, a senior consultant at Northbrook, Ill.-based LoBue Associates Inc. 

 Mr. Palmer likened the deal to the recent acquisition of U.S. Trust Co. by San Francisco-based Charles Schwab & Co. Schwab had a large client base, but lacked expertise and credibility on the high end, he said. The challenge for Wachovia, he said, is to offer Offitbank's services to its clients without diluting the brand. 

 In fact, Wachovia has made a point of keeping the Offitbank and Barry Evans brands intact. Both will continue to operate under their own names, with the tagline, "a Wachovia company." 

 And according to executives, there has been no culture clash at all. 

 "Our cultures are 120% compatible," Mr. Offit said. "Wachovia has been extremely respectful of Offitbank." 

 Now that the acquisitions are integrated and cross-referrals have begun, the next step will be to roll out the relationship geographically and expand the product line, Mr. Offit said. Offitbank, which had offices in New York and San Francisco, is in the process of opening new offices in Winston-Salem, Greensboro, N.C., Atlanta, and Palm Beach. 

 Offitbank is also planning additional offices outside the Wachovia footprint, including Miami, Los Angeles, and the Southwest, Mr. Offit said. As one of the country's biggest lenders, Wachovia has forged customer relationships well beyond its branch banking footprint, Mr. Offit noted. 

 Over the next several months, Offitbank will also work with Wachovia to develop new investment products, particularly alternative investments such as private equity and hedge funds, Mr. Offit said. 

 Mr. Snipes said that the main focus for Barry Evans would be to continue to build cross-referrals. 

 "We're going to be able to access the wealthy clients Wachovia has," Mr. Snipes said. "Wachovia will accelerate what we do, but not how we do it. We're looking to do more of what we do." 

 Consultant John M. Wepler said that Wachovia is taking the right tack. Mr. Wepler is vice president of merger and acquisition services for Marsh, Berry Inc., a consulting company in Concord, Ohio, that brokers sales of agencies. "In the past, banks bought insurance agencies without knowing why they were buying them," Mr. Wepler said. "What works well is using the relationships an insurance broker has to the advantage of both parties." 

 That means building a consolidated customer service platform that takes a "problem-solving" approach, he said. "The reason why it's critical to focus on the relationship side is because that is the way to maximize profit per customer and maximize retention." 

 Copyright c 2000 American Banker, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

 photo, W. Robert Newell 

Document amb0000020010803dw82004ca




 Wall Street Skeptical Over P&G's Optimistic FY01 Outlook 

 By Cathleen Egan 
603 words
1 August 2000
18:46
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) - a component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, a bellwether for the consumer-products world and even an indicator for the economy - just reported earnings for its fiscal fourth quarter ended June, and the market doesn't seem to care. 

 That's partly because the company already forecast a weak quarter, but mostly because investors are mulling more telling news: that P&G will likely miss analysts' views for yet another quarter. 

 P&G said that it expects fiscal first-quarter profits to be flat with a year ago. Wall Street was expecting per-share earnings growth of about 4.5%. 

 It turns out that efforts to restructure the company are taking longer than expected, and such pesky matters as unfavorable currency translations, high raw-material costs and aggressive competition continue to stunt profit growth. 

 P&G recently instituted some product price increases to take the edge off some of the margin pressure, but it's likely that those moves won't start to help the bottom line until the second half of fiscal 2001. Still, company executives told analysts and investors during a conference call Tuesday morning that P&G is comfortable with the mid to upper end of Wall Street's current range of fiscal 2001 earnings projections of $3.16 to $3.30 a share. 


            Stronger Competition Stymies Growth



This would suggest earnings growth in the upper teens or lower 20%
area for the second half of the year. Prudential Securities Inc. analyst
Connie Maneaty said that P&G would have to deliver 17% earnings growth
in the second half just to get to the low end of analysts' range.



Considering P&G's lackluster performance and inability to drive volume
growth at a time when economies and market conditions are strong, many
analysts are leery of the company's ability to deliver such results.



"I am skeptical," said S&P Equity Group analyst Robert Izmirlian.
"Part of it is because the competitive landscape has changed so much.
It's gotten really strong."



Competitors like Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB) and Colgate-Palmolive Co.
(CL) continue to develop and market top-notch products and Procter &
Gamble has been feeling the pinch.



Take P&G's fourth-quarter results. The company reported that volume
increased 2% in the period. One percentage point of that growth came
from its newly acquired Iams premium pet-care business, Izmirlian said.
That means the company got just one percentage point of volume growth
from all its other products, which include such powerhouse brands as
Tide, Crest and Charmin.



Whether P&G can meet expectations for the year remains to be seen.



Management remains confident that such measures as a lower tax rate,
improved savings, product innovation and renewed focus on the company's
core brands, markets and customers will secure its future earnings. And
the company's weak performance in its third and fourth quarters will
give it relatively easy comparisons in the second half of the year.



Therefore, some analysts are willing to give P&G the benefit of the
doubt.



"Relative to what they announced in the third and fourth quarters,
this (profit warning) I view as a relatively minor one," said
PaineWebber Inc. analyst Jim Dormer. His investment rating of attractive
on the company is based on management "building certainty over time."



-Cathleen Egan, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5289;
cathleen.egan@dowjones.com


Document dj00000020010805dw810310t

Search Summary

 Text((“profit*” same “warning*”) or ("disappoint*" same "result*") or ("decreas*" same "profit*") or ("compan*" same "downturn*") or ("unexpect*" same "loss*"))   Date08/01/2000 to 08/31/2000   SourceAll Sources   AuthorAll Authors   CompanyAll Companies   Subject Not Corporate/Industrial News   IndustryAll Industries   RegionUnited States   LanguageEnglish   Results Found66   Timestamp29 March 2018 10:10  
 Page 90 of 90     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

