 
•	  U.S. stocks strike records on four major indices. 
•	  NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT 
•	  Visions of techno-sugarplums: Owning the best of the best is rarely a losing proposition 
•	  Things Are Not Going Any Better With Coke 
•	  Xerox's Internet Unit Looking To Develop, Spin Off  Operations 
•	  IMRglobal shift to result in charge 
•	  U.S stocks end higher, Nasdaq hits 57th record. 
•	  Locked Out - Small investors lose when companies share market-moving information only with a select few 
•	  Clearwater, Fla.-Based IMRglobal Corp. to Shift Focus to E-commerce 
•	  IN THE MONEY 
•	  Market Savvy Dow Drops 113, Yields Soar on Interest Rate Concerns 
•	  TIP SHEET: Wright Major's Mehta Uses Techs To Cut Risk 
•	  Barron's Online -- Unhealthy Signs: Nasdaq stocks may be vulnerable 
•	  Ronson Corporation Issues Post Meeting Report Re 1999 Annual Stockholders Meeting 
•	  Wall Street seen mixed, Monsanto in focus.  
•	 FRIGHTENING NEW EVIDENCE  
•	  INDUSTRY NEWS: Waste Management Names CEO. 
•	  Canadian Web Site Vexes Buffalo, N.Y., Local TV Stations 
•	  BRIEFLY / FINANCIAL SERVICES Dun & Bradstreet Plans to Spin Off Moody's 
•	 BANK TO CLOSE 32 MONEY STORES; FIRST UNION: MOVE AIMED AT HELPING MEET 2000 GOALS
•	 BRIEFING
•	 XEROX WARNING SPURS JITTERS, CAN'T STOP NASDAQ  
•	 NASDAQ HITS ANOTHER RECORD BUT BLUE-CHIP INDEX TUMBLES
•	  Nasdaq hits another record as technology stocks stay hot 
•	  Nasdaq climbs to another record 
•	  TASE keeps climbing on peace momentum 
•	 XEROX OUTLOOK COOLS STOCKS
•	  Wall Street stocks ended mixed Monday. 
•	  U.S. stock index futures mixed in tight range. 
•	  U.S. stocks mixed, Nasdaq in record ground. 
•	  Apopka, Fla.-Based Wireless Phone Maker Heads List of Big Gainers 
•	  Tech deals keep markets steady. 
•	 SMALL INVESTORS PRESS FOR ACCESS TO INSIDE SCOOP
•	 SUGAR BOWL? THAT'S THE TICKET; SCHOOL COMPUTERS OFF LIMITS FOR SCALPING
•	 IBM AGAIN WARNS OF LOWER PROFITS Y2K FEARS BLAMED FOR SLOW SALES 
•	  Blue-Chip Stocks Drop as Techs Stay Hot 
•	  Europe should beware of losing to US in ecommerce 
•	  Blue Chips Slide in Uneven Session; Procter & Gamble, Merck Decline 
•	  N.Y. Stocks Mixed Again; Coke Drags DJIA;Techs Mostly Up 
•	 U.S. BANCORP STOCK FALLS AS IT ISSUES  PROFIT WARNING
•	  N.Y. Stocks End Mixed In Another Choppy Day For Techs 
•	 Senior shares nosedive after Pounds 16m shock from California  
•	 SHARES OF BAKER HUGHES FALL 7.5% AFTER  PROFIT WARNING



 U.S. stocks strike records on four major indices. 

943 words
29 December 1999
21:51
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 29 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks surged Wednesday and the four major market indices all logged records as light trading volume allowed bits of corporate news and analyst opinions to boost Wall Street broadly higher. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average .DJI) gained 7.95 points, or, 0.07 percent, to 11,484.66 - its second record in a row. The blue-chip index hit a new intraday high at 11,543.08 but fell off its highs in the final minutes of trade. 

 Birinyi Associates Inc. said a sell programme hit the market at 3:40 p.m., contributing to the Dow's drop. 

 The tech-driven Nasdaq composite index .IXIC) marked its first close above the milestone 4,000 after trying the level in each of the four previous sessions. The index jumped 69.43 points, or 1.75 percent, to 4,041.54. Nasdaq is up more than 83 percent this year. 

 "The January effect has started a little early this year," said Barry Hyman, market strategist for Ehrenkrantz, King Nussbaum Inc. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 index .SPX) climbed 5.80 points, or 0.40 percent, to a record 1,463.46. It also set a new intraday high at 1,467.47. 

 The Russell 2000 .RUT) benchmark of smaller stocks also struck a record high, up 8.53 points, or 1.75 percent, to 497.01, Its last record was set at 491.41 in April 1998. 

 "Some of the downtrodden sectors and downtrodden stocks are starting to lift off of their lows," Hyman said. You're getting the illusion of a broad market when it's really nothing more than some of the losers starting to look a little better." 

 Trading volume was markedly light with only 573.7 million shares trading hands on the New York Stock Exchange. Nasdaq logged 1.15 billion shares by late afternoon. 

 Breadth was positive, with 1,991 stocks heading higher on the Big Board compared with 1,090 slipping lower. Still, more stocks hit new lows versus those at fresh highs by 255 to 95. 

 "A lot of players are not around and I would say most trading desks are staffed at 60 percent," said Mike Feeney, an editor at independent market research firm Wall Street Strategies. 

 "You're going to see exaggerated moves with this light volume. So that, plus window dressing and some analyst upgrades led us here," he said. 

 Among the big winners on the technology side was digital wireless communication company Qualcomm Inc., which gained a stellar 156 points to 659 after PaineWebber set a 12-month price target of $1,000 on the company's shares. 

 Qualcomm is set to split its stock this week four-for-one. 

 DoubleClick also closed up 28-3/16 at 249-1/8 after Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette raised its price target for the online advertising company to $300 from $190. 

 The Dow gained on strength in stocks such as American Express Co., up 3-3/4 to 165-1/2, and Hewlett-Packard Co., up 2-5/16 to 113-5/8. 

 But a few Dow components dropped back in late trading as a computer-driven sell programme hit the market 20 minutes before the final bell, Birinyi said. International Paper Co., Honeywell International Inc. and Dupont Co. slipped but still ended with gains. 

 One of the most active stocks was Charles Schwab Corp., the nation's No. 1 online broker. It was up 5-7/8 to 39-13/16 after saying it expects to exceed fourth-quarter profit expectations due to strong trading volumes. 

 Schwab pulled other online financial stocks higher including E*Trade Group Inc., up 2-3/4 to 28-1/2, and Knight/Trimark Group Inc., up 2-9/16 to 49. 

 Another bank stock, USABancShares.com Inc., rose 5-1/2 to 12-3/4 after saying on Wednesday that it would launch a Web site focused on business-to-business electronic commerce. The stock hit an intraday high of 19-1/2. 

 Internet stocks were strong with TheStreet.com's Internet index .DOT) up 40.25 points, or 3.59 percent, to 1,162.22. 

 On the down side, drug stocks showed weakness, with the American Stock Exchange's pharmaceutical index .DRG) down 3.01 points, or 0.85 percent, at 352.35. Dow component Johnson & Johnson lost 3-9/16 to 92-3/8. Merck & Co. slipped 1-7/8 to 67-7/8. 

 Biotechnology stocks, on the other hand, soared again. The American Stock Exchange's biotech index .BTK) rose 11.02 points, or 2.84 percent, to 399.68, a record. 

 Shares of Amgen gained 4-1/8 to 61-13/16 after hitting a fresh high of 62. Maxygen Inc. rose 4-3/4 to 73. It also hit an intraday high of 78-7/8. 

 Earnings warnings for the upcoming quarterly reporting season also started littering the market. 

 Chocolate maker Hershey Foods Corp. fell to their lowest level since April 1997 a day after issuing a profit warning. The stock fell 1-11/16 to 46-5/16, as several brokerages cut earnings estimates for the company, which is having distribution problems. 

 Sodexho Marriott Services Inc., the country's largest food and facilities management company, said it expects its fiscal first-quarter earnings to fall 5 percent below forecasts due to higher costs. The stock closed down 5/8 to 13-9/16, near a year low of 13-3/8. 

 ((Wall Street Newsdesk +212 859 1730)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dvct07hvw


 Business 
 NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT 

 Paul Kangas, Susie Gharib 
4,360 words
29 December 1999
23:30
Nightly Business Report
NBR
English
(c) 1999 Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved.

 PAUL KANGAS, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT ANCHOR: The changing face of telephony is changing again. Bell Atlantic gets permission to sell long distance phone service. The first time in years a baby bell can do that. Good Evening I`m Paul Kangas. 

 LINDA O`BRYON, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT ANCHOR: And I`m Linda O`Bryon. Susie Gharib is off tonight. A relatively quiet day on Wall Street as investors take a pre-holiday breather. The Dow gains 3. The NASDAQ closes up 26. Then, it is everywhere in our lives, but is it ready for Y2K? We`ll look at the end-of-year readiness of the oil industry. 

 O` BRYON: Good evening, everyone. A landmark decision today for Bell Atlantic (BEL) . The Federal Communications Commission gave it permission to sell long distance service, a business it was barred from when Ma Bell was broken up 15 years ago. But Bell Atlantic`s competitors say the FCC made the wrong call. Stephanie Woods reports. 

 STEPHANIE WOODS, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: A Baby Bell is growing up. After two and a half years of trying, Bell Atlantic has finally won approval to offer long distance service within New York, starting in January. Bell Atlantic says it will hit the ground running. 

 IVAN SEIDENBERG, CEO, BELL ATLANTIC: We`re not a start-up business. We come to the table with an extraordinary amount capability and resources, so we`ll come with the notion that we`ll bring best value and best price. 

 WOODS: For regulators, the best part of this is local phone competition. Before they could let Bell Atlantic offer long distance, the company first had to prove its local network is open to competitors. FCC chairman Bill Kennard hailed local competition as nothing less than revolutionary. 

 WILLIAM KENNARD, CHAIRMAN, FCC: The Berlin Wall of local phone monopoly in New York state has finally been demolished and hauled away. Consumers in New York are now free to pass into an exciting new world of competition and choice. 

 WOODS: But not everyone agrees. AT&T (T) says it will ask the FCC to reconsider, and threatens to file suit if it doesn`t. The long distance giant says Bell Atlantic is slow to switch customers who choose to sign up with competitors. Bell Atlantic dismissed the threat as so much whining. SEIDENBERG: Well, I think that my expectation is, like every other suit that comes in these things, the FCC will win out, because they are the expert agency and they`ve done the work. 

 WOODS: Bell Atlantic may soon have company. SBC (SBC) is expected to ask for long distance permission in Texas early next year. BellSouth (BLS) is working on Georgia. Analysts expect the approval in New York will make it easier for all Bell companies to get permission to sell long distance. 

 SUSAN LYNNER, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: It is important to know that the FCC now has set out a road map. While it might not be easy to reach, it at least gets us going now, so that other companies in other states can begin to have a better sense of what they have to do. 

 WOODS: When Bell Atlantic starts marketing long distance service, its first target will be customers who already pay the highest prices, because Bell Atlantic does the billing, it knows exactly who they are. Stephanie Woods, "NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT", Washington. 

 KANGAS: The stock market got a very nice boost on the opening today from the report that third quarter gross domestic product grew at a brisk 5.7 percent pace, not 5.5 percent as first estimated. Even more bullish was the fact that the inflation and in the period grew by only 1.7 percent. That was down from 1.9 percent in the second quarter. The Dow Industrial Average jumped 40 points at the outset, while the NASDAQ Index advanced another 38, after soaring a record 127 points yesterday. The early spike up in stock prices quickly invited profit takers over the next few hours, especially after the bond market showed little reaction to the GDP report. At 11:00 a.m., the Dow fell back and showed no change, while the NASDAQ Index posted a 16.5 point loss. Moving into midday and early afternoon, the blue chips began to attract bargain buyers while the high-tech laden NASDAQ market also began improving. By mid-afternoon, the Dow was up some 60 points, but some negative year-end cross currents cut that to a closing gain in the Industrial Average of only 3.06 points, standing now at 11203.60. In today`s 78 point trading range, the Industrial Average closed down 56 points from the best level of the session, and up only 21 points from the low of the day. The NASDAQ Composite ventured into record high ground again, up 26.15 at 3937.30. In its 71 point trading range, the Composite settled only 11 1/4 points below its very best level of the day. 

 Big board volume dropped 120 million shares. Starting to slow now ahead of the holiday. Up volume exceeded down volume by about 6 million shares. 

 The Dow Transports Index was up nearly 2 1/4 points 

 Utilities edged up 1/3 of a point. 

 The Closing Tick practically neutral, at -89. 

 Standard & Poor`s 500 at a record high, as indicated by the asterisk. 

 Up over 2.5 over a 3 point gain to a record high on the 100. 

 MidCap 400 up just over 5 points. 

 And the Bridge Futures Price Index down .37. 

 New York Stock Exchange Composite gained just over 1 1/4 

 Similar gain the Value Line Index. 

 Russell2000 Small Cap up 2.15. 

 And the Wilshire 5000 achieved a record high with that gain of just over 42 points. 

 The bond market showed little reaction to that GDP report, even though the inflation figure was certainly friendly. But some buying was prompted by a little better than expected demand for the Treasury`s auction of $15 billion of 2-year notes, which were priced to yield a 6.233 percent. A 76 cent per barrel decline in New York February oil futures also helped tax free and corporates close on a steady note, while the Treasury market had a slight upward bias. 

 The 5-year notes showed no change. 

 But the 10-year notes were up 1/32. 

 And the 30-year bond gained 4/32. 

 But the Lehman Brothers Long-Term Treasury Bond Index was down a little over 2 1/3 points. 

 I`ll be back shortly to show you where the action was on Wall Street today. Linda? 

 O`BYRON: If you`re looking for an investment with some shine to it for the new year, analysts say you might want to consider steel stocks. Steel prices are finally starting to take off, after nearly two years of declines. Diane Eastabrook reports. 

 DIANE EASTABROOK, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: Industry experts say a shift in supply and demand is driving steel prices up and improving earnings for steel companies. Foreign imports are tapering off while demand for steel from manufacturers and builders is rising. Prices for flat rolled steel used in everything from cars to appliances increased three times this year and steel companies have proposed two more price hikes for next year. 

 TOM DANJCZEK, PRESIDENT, STEEL MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION: We went through a very disastrous surge of imports in `98 and `99 and we`re recovering from that now. The fundamentals of steel, our competitiveness, our value is still very strong and every trend indicates in most segments of our business that 2000 will be a stronger, more prosperous year for us. EASTABROOK: U.S. steel prices began to plummet in mid 1998 when the Asian financial crisis caused a flood of cheap foreign steel. Although prices have been rising steadily since the middle of this year, they still haven`t returned to the levels they were at before the Asian crisis hit. But industry watchers predict a booming U.S. economy and improving economies in Asia should provide more momentum to steel prices next year. Some even predict prices could reach their highest level in nearly four years. 

 TOM ABRAMS, STEEL ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: If we get continued demand overseas and less material available to this country, imports should be flat to down again this year. And that bodes well for the U.S. guys because they can supply even a flat market with additional tonnage. 

 EASTABROOK: Despite rising prices, analysts predict most steel companies will continue to struggle during the first half of next year but should be back in the black by the second half of 2000. Diane Eastabrook NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, Chicago. 

 LINDA O`BRYON, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: Well, Paul, more problems for Microsoft (MSFT) today. Dozens of lawyers suing the software giant met in Washington, DC to plan a common strategy for their cases. The lawyers represent at least 30 firms that have filed antitrust suits against Microsoft in California, New York, Florida, and five other states. The cases center around claims that consumers overpaid for Microsoft`s software. The attorneys say a common strategy would let them pool resources and mount a stronger challenge to the software giant. 

 STANLEY CHELSEY, ATTORNEY, WALTE, SCHNEIDER, BAYLES & CHELSEY: It`s clear from all of our past history that with a united front, people working together in harmony, poses a very, very serious opponent to somebody like Microsoft. 

 O`BRYON: In response, a Microsoft spokesman says the only people who will benefit from the suits are the lawyers filing them. 

 KANGAS: Starting to see a little pre-holiday slowdown in volume and some cross currents at year end. Up only 3 points on the close for the Dow after being up over 60 in mid-afternoon and the broader market lower by an 8 to 7 margin. Only 81 new highs for the year, 344 new lows. 

 Topping the active list on 18 1/2 million shares, Lucent Technology (LU), which is now the most widely held stock in the U.S., incidentally. Now yesterday J.P. Morgan made cautious comments about revenue growth for the company and today Lucent reported its order backlog has decreased. Also, the board wants to boost the number of authorized shares from 6 billion to 10 billion. 

 Compaq Computer (CPQ) down 1/8. 

 And then America Online (AOL) lost 3 9/16 reacting negatively to the news it`s going to acquire Mapquest.com for $1.1 billion in AOL stock. 

 Pfizer (PFE) was up 1 1/16. 

 AT&T (T) down 1 5/16 on that Bell Atlantic development. 

 Tyco International (TYC) edged up 11/16 trying to stabilize here. 

 Kroger (KR) up 1 1/16. 

 Philip Morris (MO) dropped 1/16. 

 Citigroup losing 5/16. 

 And TJX Companies (TJX) gained 1 7/16, 10th in volume. 

 Allergan (AGN) was up 4 full points. The company`s in eye care and skin care products and Merrill Lynch upgraded it from "accumulate" to "near term buy" today. 

 Coca-Cola (KO) edged up 1/4. Traded as high as 60 11/16 this morning after Merrill Lynch named it as a focus one stock with an $80 a share target. 

 Eastman Kodak (EK) rose 4 9/16, positive reaction to the company naming Robert Brust as its new chief financial officer. He was formerly with Unisys (UIS). 

 Electronic Data Systems (EDS) rose just over 4 points after the S.C. Cowan Brokerage increased its price target from $70 to $80 a share. 

 Kyocera (KYO) was up 15 3/16. The company is going to acquire QUALCOMM`s mobile phone division. No terms were disclosed as yet. And also, of course, overnight the Nikkei Index in Japan was up 2.1 percent. 

 NCR Corp. (NCR) rose 3 11/16 on news it`ll be added to the Standard & Poor`s 500 Index after the close on New Year`s Eve, replacing Republic Bank of New York. 

 MYR Group (MYR), which is in construction services like putting up power lines, up 8 3/8 on news it`ll be acquired by GPU Incorporated for $30.15 per share cash. 

 Weirton Steel (WS) up 1 5/16, a good percentage gain. You heard the steel story. Prices are firming and it seems to be bolstering a lot of the steel stocks like Weirton. 

 Tejon Ranch (TRC) up 3 3/4 points. The chief executive officer told us no specific news today but the stock has been beaten down unjustifiable, he said, given the company`s bright outlook. It`s a major landholder in California. 

 L3 Comm Communications Holdings (LLL) rising 4 3/8 on news the stock will be added to the Standard & Poor`s Midcap 400 Index after the close on New Year`s Eve. 

 Consolidated Graphics (CGX), the major casualty, down 6 3/8. The company sees lower than expected third quarter results, around $0.56 a share. The Street was looking for $0.70 a share. 

 And Park Electrochemical (PKE) down well over 8 points. Fourth quarter earnings came in higher, 51 versus 40 last year, but the Street was looking for $0.58. 

 NASDAQ trading, a record high, the 57th of the year, up over 26 points. Volume was down 13.6 million shares from yesterday. For every 18 stocks higher there were nearly 22 lower. 

 QUALCOMM (QCOM) topped the active list, plunging 11 7/16. Of course it`s had a tremendous run-up after that 4 for 1 split announcement. 

 Yahoo! (YHOO) up 13 3/4. CMGI (CMGI), the Internet incubator, up 5 1/8. 

 Microsoft (MSFT) up 1 11/16. However, in after hours trading the stock was at 115 on news that the company`s CFO, Greg Maffei, is leaving to head up a company called Worldwide Fiber. 

 Internet Capital (ICGE) up 8 1/2 points. 

 And the Group 3Com (COMS) down a little over 4. 

 Dell Computer (DELL) edged up 9/16. 

 Cisco Systems (CSCO) down 1 1/2. Oracle (ORCL), which made a 2 for 1 split announcement earlier in the week, up 7 3/8. 

 And Juno Online (JWEB) on profit taking down 5 1/2. CAIS Internet (CAIS) rising 12 11/16. Hambrecht and Quist is starting covering the stock with a "buy" recommendation and yesterday Colbrook Travis Roberts said it`s going to invest $200 million in the firm. 

 Internet America (GEEK) down 8 11/16. The company has denied reports that it will offer free Internet access. 

 And Colorado Medtech (CMED) plunging 5 7/16 after the company issued a profit warning, said second quarter earnings would come in around $0.06 to $0.08, not the $0.19 that the Street was expecting. 

 The American Exchange Index up a little over 4 3/4 points. Xcelera.com (XLA) up 46 1/2 points. That stock closed at 62 last Friday when the company announced a 2 for 1 stock split. Xcelera, indeed. Accelerate. Interdigital Communications (IDC) up 4 points. The company announced plans to expand in Japan. The firm does have some very promising wireless technology. 

 And finally, the Index Shares, no change in the DIAMONDS (DIA). 

 But gains in the NASDAQ 100 (QQQ) and the S&P Depositary Receipts (SPY). And that is the Wall Street Wrap Up. Linda? 

 KANGAS: Most Y2K worries have focused on the technology industry, but attention is now being paid to oil. It heats our homes and fuels practically all transportation. As "Bridge News" Peter Rosenthal reports, the industry is now being watched for signs of Y2K trouble. 

 PETER ROSENTHAL, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: The oil business is hoping years of work and billions of dollars will mean Y2K is not an acronym for disaster. Industry leaders say their refineries, pipelines, oil fields, and accounting systems can handle the first moments of the new year, when computers that have trouble reading the date could crash or provide bad information. RICHARD COHEN, OIL ANALYST, STARR SECURITIES: They have been preparing for several years, and for the majority of the companies, they have already put the computer systems and other systems in place that would be required. 

 ROSENTHAL: Gas stations, the only part of the oil business most of us ever see, are generally thought to be Y2K ready, but suppliers are making sure there`s plenty of fuel around for those who want to fill up the tank one last time in `99. The vice chairman of Exxon Mobil (XOM), Lou Noto says that doesn`t mean some motorists won`t have a bad Y2K experience. 

 LUCIO NATO, VICE CHAIRMAN, EXXONMOBIL: I suspect that you`ll probably see some extra cars in service stations filling up on the 30th, and then somebody is going to report that there is a shortage because people are backed up, and that will add to the mania for at least another day. And so, we are about to have a little bit of an upset. 

 ROSENTHAL: Although most facilities in the US appear OK, uncertainty persists about the rest of the world, where America gets nearly two-thirds of its oil. We won`t know for sure until January, but the world`s biggest producers say they`re fine. Case in point: Venezuela spent $400 million dollars in three years to ready its systems. 

 LUIS GIUSTI, FORMER PRESIDENT, VENEZUELA STATE OIL COMPANY: The most important concern had to do with the automated systems of refining, supply, production, and those were given special attention, so I would expect that everything in Venezuela, at least I can speak for Petroleus de Venezuela is going to be normal. 

 ROSENTHAL: Venezuela has teamed with the other top producers, including Saudi Arabia and Mexico, promising they will pump more oil if there`s a shortage due to Y2K. Most analysts believe if there are interruptions, they will be mild, but they also warn we won`t be off the hook on January 1st, because problems could crop up for several days into the new year. Peter Rosenthal of "Bridge News" for "NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT," New York. 

 O`BRYON: Well, Paul, business to business Internet commerce is expected to soar into a $70 billion industry in the next three years. And Jo Mei Chang, CEO of Vitria Technology (VITR), has plans to tackle that market. Her company sells software that lets different computer systems talk to each other. Vitria`s revenues jumped 400 percent from September of last year to September of this year. Its clients include names like Federal Express (FDX), QWest Communications (QWST), and Deutsche Bank. In tonight`s prime movers segment, Donald van de Mark of Myprimetime.com asks Chang how retailing will drive e-business. 

 JOMEI CHANG, PRESIDENT & CEO, VITRIA TECHNOLOGY: I think retailing is certainly one area that will drive the e-business. And another critical part of e-business is the business to business interaction, how to really automate orders such that one retailer at a Web site trying to order a piece of merchandise and it can be automatically confirmed by the purchaser`s supplier and all confirmed in real time. DONALD VAN DE MARK, MY PRIMETIME.COM: And that`s going to be more than a trillion dollar... 

 CHANG: Business to business is at least five times bigger than the business to consumer that most people are familiar with, or the so-called retailing side. 

 VAN DE MARK: Here you are now a second time entrepreneur, not quite a serial entrepreneur, but nonetheless very interested in building businesses on your own. How do you have that kind of courage? 

 CHANG: I think it`s a fundamental belief of rules are made to be broken. I come to the States based on a $250 a month scholarship, finished my Ph.D. degrees and try in my first job learn all the rules and then quickly realized that if I stayed in, I believe pursuing what I believe, I can then create wonderful things. And I create the first reliable multitask protocol, pioneered that area for the next 15 years. I created the first trader workstation completely pioneer and changed Wall Street forever in terms of trading community access to real time information. And all those are done for the very first time and all those by ignoring what people tell me, it cannot be done. 

 VAN DE MARK: All of this sounds so logical and efficient and easy for you. But there must have been a time when you were terrified. 

 CHANG: I think scared is much better than being bored. And when we created Vitria five years ago the belief is we wanted to create the platform to empower the business users, such that business solutions can be created in a very short amount of time frame. A lot of people didn`t think that`s an important area. And today, e-business is the hardest area. So to be a leader you had to be a loaner. That`s what I believe. And to be scared, which means no one else agrees with our opinion but which really means we`re so passionate about believing what we`re doing and we put everything behind, and that`s what makes us and the company Vitria stand out. 

 VAN DE MARK: Well, congratulations, and thank you very much for joining us. 

 CHANG: Thank you. 

 VAN DE MARK: Jomei Chang, the founder and CEO of Vitria. 

 KANGAS: Since the markets are closed Friday, tomorrow`s market monitor guest is Tom Herzfeld, chairman of Thomas J. Herzfeld Advisors. 

 O`BRYON: The U.S. Postal Service wants Ford (F) to charge it. The agency today placed the largest U.S. order ever order for electric vehicles with the Ford Motor Company. Ford says the initial order is for 500 electric mail trucks with an option for a total of 6,000 vehicles. The mail trucks are based on the electric version of Ford`s popular Ranger pickup. Ford shares gained 1/4 to 51. 

 KANGAS: The shares of Incyte Pharmaceuticals soared over 30 percent today on news the firm has identified the gene responsible for Type II diabetes. Type II diabetes, also called adult onset diabetes, accounts for almost 95 percent of all diabetes cases. The discovery will help researchers develop more effective diabetes treatments. Insight shares up 11 13/16 to close at 47 3/16. 

 O`BRYON: In the money file tonight, a lesson about money from a person who learned it and put it to good use. Here`s Don Phillips, CEO of Morningstar. DON PHILLIPS, CEO, MORNINGSTAR: Did you ever get a Christmas present that changed your life? I did. When I was in junior high school, my parents gave me 100 shares of the Templeton Growth Fund (TEGTX) for Christmas one year. Now, on that day, it certainly wasn`t my favorite gift. It paled next to the toys and books that I really wanted. But today, 23 years later, while the other gifts are long forgotten, the mutual fund shares still have value. Indeed, their value goes well beyond their monetary worth. What my parents did was more than set a few dollars aside for me. What they had done was to show me that vesting investing was something that they took seriously, something that a responsible adult did as a matter of course. By introducing me to investing, by explaining to me what a mutual fund was and by showing me how to track my investments in the paper, my parents made an invaluable introduction for me to the world of finance. For me, mutual funds became a career, not just a hobby. But that`s not why that Christmas gift was so special. By introducing me to investments at an early age, my folks let me know that whatever course my life took, I could and should take responsibility for my financial well being. In a season full of conspicuous consumption, I got a lesson in thrift. Even after all these years, that`s a gift that really counts for something. Thanks, mom. Thanks, dad. I`m Don Phillips. 

 KANGAS: Recapping today`s market action, the Dow gained three points and the NASDAQ gained 26, to- and we`re getting tired of saying this-another record high. And please join us at our Worldwide Web site, NBR.com, or on America Online, keyword: NBR. 

 O`BRYON: And finally tonight, if you still haven`t decided whether Y2K will arrive with a bang or a whisper, one company has options for you. On-line grocer Peapod (PPOD) is offering special Y2K kits for pessimists who think the world will end December 31st. The package contains bottled water, batteries, candles, soap, canned goods and survival gear. For optimists who think they`ll be around in January and beyond it has snacks, party cups, a camera and aspirin to soothe your holiday hangover. In either case, the price tag is around $70, Paul. So are you Y2K ready? 

 KANGAS: I like to party on New Year`s Eve with the best of them but I`m not going to need $70 worth of aspirin, thank you very much. 

 O`BRYON: OK. We`ll remember that. That`s NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT for Wednesday, December 22nd. I`m Linda O`Bryon. Good night, everyone. And good night to you, too, Paul. 

 KANGAS: Good night, Linda. I`m Paul Kangas wishing all of you the best of good buys. 

 END 

 TO PURCHASE A VIDEOTAPE OF THIS PIECE, PLEASE CALL  888-266-3601 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 1999 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc.  Formatting and transcription copyright 1999 Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.  No quotes from the materials contained herein may be used in any media without attribution to Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. This transcript may not be copied or resold in any media. 

Document nbr0000020010828dvct000cw




Global Markets
 Financial Post Investing 
 Visions of techno-sugarplums: Owning the best of the best is rarely a losing proposition 

 Don Coxe 
Financial Post
795 words
24 December 1999
National Post
FINP
National !@SERIES=
C08
English
(c) 1999 National Post . All Rights Reserved.

 The first Christmas was marked by displays of extremely advanced communications systems, using light and sound. The Three Wise Men were led by a heavenly precursor of today's global positioning system. The shepherds were summoned to Bethlehem by an airborne angel, backed by a celestial choir. 

 This Christmas, investors smart (or lucky) enough to have invested in companies engaged in telecommunications, computers, chips, software or the Internet have tasted Santaesque generosity on a grandiose scale. 

 Nasdaq is up 81% this year because of its heavy weighting in the heavyweights of the electronic technology industries. Such companies as Microsoft Corp., Qualcomm Inc., Nortel Networks Corp. and Oracle Corp. have given spectacular returns. Internet initial public offerings such as VA Linux Systems Inc. have given lottery-like prizes. 

 It has been a year in which nothing has succeeded like excess. Those of us who raised warning flags about the stretched valuations in U.S. technology stocks have suffered laser burns. Those who believed in the magic of unlimited profit opportunities have joined Harry Potter in the winners' column. 

 Having regard to the global trends in technology, investors may wish to consider including Asian tech stocks for their portfolios, on the off chance the U.S. doesn't dominate forever. 

 In July, writing for another publication, I broke a personal rule never to recommend just one stock to investors. I get asked so often, "If you could own only one stock, what would it be?" I have consistently refused to give a stock tip, stating that I am a believer in diversification within winning asset class selection. 

 I broke with that rule in July, recommending Sony Corp. It trades in American depositary receipts in New York under the ticker SNE. At that time it was $126 (US). This week it traded at $230 (US). That is a modest gain for an Internet-related stock, but a fine return for a company engaged in such a wide range of products and services. 

 Sony remains worth considering, and not just because it is the brand name on so many gifts being opened this week. 

 Sony is positioning itself to be the biggest winner from the coming convergence among technologies related to leisure, computers, communications and the Internet. It is no longer just battling other makers of TVs and stereos. 

 It wants to be the supplier of hardware, software and content for work and play worldwide. 

 The biggest knock on Sony has been its refusal to exit from movies and computers. Wall Street analysts sneered at the company's "lack of focus." They told clients to dump Sony in favour of "pure plays" like Microsoft, Seagram Co. or Royal Philips Electronics NV. 

 With the release of Playstation II, Sony's grand strategy is revealed, and even Bill Gates has been forced to rethink his plans. 

 This product is an advanced computer game that would seem to be a threat only to Nintendo. In reality, it is a device that will be the user's entry point to other technologies, including computing, DVDs (digital versatile discs) and the Internet. 

 By staying in the movie and computer businesses as the various technologies were evolving, Sony acquired the knowledge and production techniques to be a winner no matter how markets develop. 

 Incidentally, Sony is one of the dominant players in high definition TV, which will make all TV sets obsolete within a decade. Last week, the industry association of which it is a member disqualified sets made by Toshiba Corp. and Hitachi Ltd. from the ranks of HDTV. This does not mean a repeat of the disastrous colour TV wars between Sony's Betamax and the rest of the industry's adoption of VHS. It means that Sony, Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. and a few other companies will be the premier providers of the next great consumer electronics product. 

 Finally, a big reason for looking at Sony is that this company is one of the leading stocks in the market that should continue its newfound ways of outperforming the U.S. market (as represented by the Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500 index). 

 Japanese stocks are emerging from the longest bear market in the history of equities. As they continue their recovery, valuations on the best Japanese companies will eventually reach -- or exceed-- valuations on the top U.S. stocks. 

 Owning the best of the best is rarely a losing proposition. It doesn't take celestial communication to see the wisdom. 

Don Coxe, chairman of Harris Investment Management of Chicago and Jones Heward Investments, can be e-mailed at don.coxe@harrisbank.com

Document finp000020010827dvco00m0m




 Business 
 Things Are Not Going Any Better With Coke 

 Jill Ferguson 
509 words
23 December 1999
The Age
AGEE
3
English
(c) 1999 of John Fairfax Group Pty. Ltd.

 The embattled Coca-Cola Amatil took another body blow yesterday when the global credit ratings agency Standard & Poor's downgraded the Australian bottler's long-term rating to A. 

 This follows a similar move by the ratings agency on CC Amatil's parent, the American giant Coke, in response to a series of acquisitions, a sharp rise in debt and general operational weakness. 

 ``We view Coke and its bottlers as a system,'' said an S&P spokeswoman. ``We've had Coca-Cola Amatil on credit watch since the parent company Coke disclosed third-quarter earnings wouldn't be as strong.'' 

 Ms Jeanette Ward, an S&P analyst, said Coke's downgrade - from AA- to A+- was  the main factor in CC Amatil's ratings change, but there were local contributing reasons. 

 Mr Warren Collins, CC Amatil's corporate treasurer, was philosophical about the downgrade. ``The move was not as a result of S&P taking a specific look at CC Amatil ... sometimes we benefit from being part of Coke, but at times we are disadvantaged,'' he said. 

 Mr Collins said the downgrade would have little effect on CC Amatil's debt program or the cost of funding. ``There may be some additional costs at the margin, but they won't be significant,'' he said. 

 Earlier this month, CC Amatil announced a shock profit warning for 2000 and $70 million of abnormal restructuring charges in the beleaguered Philippines division. 

 Management told analysts this year's profit would be about$179 million, 11per  cent lower than 1998, and the 2000 profit would be lower again. That caused the  market to slice 2000 and 2001 forecasts by up to 35 per cent and 30 per cent respectively. 

 ``Significant overcapacity and the relatively high fixed nature of expenses means we can't rule out further restructure and associated costs - the cost benefits from closing two old plants won't start flowing through until 2001. Profit from the Philippines has dropped from $200 million in 1997 to about $90 million this year if they're lucky,'' one analyst said. ``But, Australia's travelling fine, with relatively healthy margins.'' 

 S&P also raised questions over the speed of growth in the embryonic South Korean operation. 

 Since a price spike of $7.05 in early July, CC Amatil's share price has slipped more than 42 per cent to yesterday's $4.05 close. Trader's attributed the stock's 13-cent rise yesterday to bottom trawling. 

 ``At 22 times, CCL is trading at a realistic multiple, a far cry from the 40 times only three years ago,'' said one analyst. ``But, there is short-term earnings uncertainty due to the Philippines business, and a new CEO in the US for Coca-Cola. Who knows what that means for the bottlers?'' 

 The Atlanta-based Coke and its subsidiary bottlers were placed on ``negative'' credit watch on 9September after the soft-drink giant reported weaker-than-expected third-quarter earnings. 

Document agee000020010825dvcn00c5l




 Xerox's Internet Unit Looking To Develop, Spin Off  Operations 

 By Scott Eden 
475 words
23 December 1999
17:37
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- With its newly formed Internet group, Xerox Corp. (XRX) plans to develop stand-alone Internet businesses, then potentially spin them off by selling stock to the public. 

 The spinoff idea remains primarily a conceptual one. In an interview, Michael Miron, head of the new unit, said that to fund development of those new businesses, Xerox will seek to raise money not only through the equity markets, but also from venture-capital firms and strategic partners. 

 Revenue targets and expenses for the unit as well as the timing of any future spinoffs weren't disclosed. Nor were any concrete ideas about what exactly those startup businesses would do. Miron would only say that he wants the unit to show "radical" growth. 

 "I'm thinking pretty aggressively about this stuff because we're starting from a pretty low base," he said. 

 In addition to forming new businesses - some of which will remain within Xerox, some split off - the new unit, to be called the Internet Business Group, has culled Internet-related businesses from throughout Xerox's sprawling corporate divisions. 

 Initially, the unit will focus on selling the company's few Internet products - such as ContentGuard, software that lets publishers embed copyright protections in documents published on the Web, and MobileDoc, which provides remote access to documents via cell phones or other handheld gadgets. 


     Web Site To Become A Hub



Miron also wants the new unit, which currently employs about 150 to
200 people, to expand Xerox's Web site, re-creating it as a hub of
services and information for large customers, thereby transforming what
Miron said was once considered a "utility" into a "profit center."



Xerox's Internet-related businesses now take in about $200 million in
revenue a year, according to Miron. But the new division under his
jurisdiction will have control over only a portion of that. "I'm
deliberately trying to focus on a few select missions," he added.



The moves, mentioned last week by Chief Executive Rick Thoman during a
speech in Paris and officially announced Thursday morning, come shortly
after the Stamford, Conn., office-equipment and document company shocked
Wall Street with a warning that its fourth-quarter profit would fall far
short of expectations. It cited a spectrum of problems, including
corporations delaying technology spending because of worries about
year-2000 glitches, economic turmoil in Brazil, a less-than-successful
reorganization of its sales force and heightened competition in its core
copier market.



Xerox's formation of the new unit also seems a belated Internet
initiative, something that most other technology companies have been
doing for years. International Business Machines Corp. (IBM), for
instance, has been conducting a massive Internet push since at least
1994.
   - Scott Eden; Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5173


Document dj00000020010827dvcn07ui6




 BUSINESS 
 IMRglobal shift to result in charge 

 AMEET SACHDEV 
602 words
22 December 1999
St. Petersburg Times
STPT
SOUTH PINELLAS
1E
English
Copyright (c) 1999 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved.                                         

 The company's putting more emphasis on its e-commerce unit, a move that will slice earnings by $11-million to $13-million.   IMRglobal Corp. is remaking itself to exploit the booming demand for electronic- commerce services, an overhaul that will reduce fourth-quarter earnings by $11-million to $13-million.   The information-technology services company said Tuesday it will close two of the nine development centers it uses to design software for customers. IMRglobal has found that its Internet-services business requires more software design to be done at customers' work places, leaving excess capacity at its development centers.   The two centers are in Northern Ireland and England and employ about 110 people. A company official said the number of job cuts will be fewer than 110 but could not be more specific. He said there will be no layoffs at the Clearwater headquarters at this time.   The changes are being made to boost the fastest growing part of the company. 

  Electronic-commerce services accounted for nearly one-fourth of IMRglobal's revenues of $62.1-million in the third quarter.   "I don't think anyone could have foreseen how big e-business was going to be," said Vincent Addonisio, executive vice president of IMRglobal. "We have to position the company to be where the customers are."   Still, the restructuring moves add to what has already been a tumultuous last four months at IMRglobal. The transition away from fixing software problems related to the year 2000 date change has not been easy. A profit warning in September sent IMRglobal's stock plunging to $7, well below its 52-week high of $32.62 1/2. Two months later, president John Hindman resigned as part of a management restructuring that consolidated control with chief executive Satish Sanan. Meanwhile, Sanan was dealing with a personal crisis. The stock decline caused a bank to call personal loans it made to Sanan, for which he had pledged his shares in the company as collateral. Sanan borrowed $20-million from the company to pay back banks, then sold more than 2.6-million shares to private investors to pay back the company.   The stock has recovered slightly since September. Shares rose 18 3/4 cents to $12.37 1/2 Tuesday.   IMRglobal hopes the overhaul will raise its profile on Wall Street. The Internet services industry is exploding as online commerce continues to grow. Analysts predict the market for e-commerce services will grow from $8-billion to more than $80-billion in the next four to five years.   Companies in this sector are enjoying phenomenal runs in the stock market. Viant Corp., based in Boston, closed at $97.12 1/2 Tuesday after going public at $16 in June. Another Massachusetts company, Sapient Corp., is trading at $122. It went public in 1996 at $21 a share. Besides start-ups, IMRglobal is competing in a field that includes behemoths like IBM and Andersen Consulting. "IBM created the term 'e- business,' " said Andy Burns, an analyst at PaineWebber in San Francisco.   The costs to grow IMRglobal's e-commerce business will add up to at least $11-million. Besides job reductions, the company will write off certain mainframe hardware and software assets and increase training dollars to help employees learn new technologies. The costs will be reflected in a onetime charge in the fourth quarter that will equal 28 cents to 32 cents a share. Analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial expected the company to post net income of 12 cents a share in the period. 

Document stpt000020010830dvcm01ema




 U.S stocks end higher, Nasdaq hits 57th record. 

781 words
22 December 1999
21:49
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 22 (Reuters) - Wall Street stocks ended higher on Wednesday as money shifted into some inflation-resistant stocks along with a few bellwether technology names to offset company-specific news and profit taking. 

 Both the Nasdaq composite and the S&P 500 indexes advanced, marking new records for the second day running. 


The Dow Jones industrial average	  gained just 3.06 points, or 0.03 percent, at 11,203.60 after jumping more than 50 points in early afternoon.



Eastman Kodak Co.  and Procter & Gamble Co.  led the Dow higher.



The Nasdaq composite index	   climbed 26.15 points, or 0.67 percent, to a high of 3,937.30 - its 57th record of the year. The tech-driven market has risen 79.5 percent this year and more than 900 points in eight weeks.
The Standard & Poor's 500	  also logged a new record, up 2.56 points, or 0.18 percent, at 1,435.99.



"It's another day at the office. The pattern remains the same and that pattern is continued strength by individual issues that dominate the averages," said Donald Selkin, chief market strategist at Joseph Gunnar & Co..



"In the broader market, the new highs versus new lows is a disaster. But the stock market is not a democracy," he said.



Much of the Dow's gains were pinned to advances in Kodak and Procter & Gamble. Photo-imaging company Kodak, up 4-9/16 to 62-1/16, named a new chief financial officer.



P&G closed up 3-13/16 at 108-5/16. Analysts said they saw strength in the entire consumer products sector. Also, on Tuesday, the company won a court battle against a rival citing false advertising.



"At some point, value stocks such as consumer noncyclicals will catch up to large cap technology names," Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at First Albany Corp. said of Wednesday's gain in stocks that are not impacted by the economy.



"It makes good sense that some of the high fliers start to give up some ground and some of the stocks that are cheaper start to recover. Common sense alone says that," he said. "But, I don't believe this change becomes meaningful until we give it at least two weeks."



Toothpaste maker Colgate-Palmolive Co.  closed up 2-7/16 at 62-1/2 and household products maker Clorox Co.  rose 2-5/16 to 54-3/16.



"You don't have to go in small caps to be a contrarian," said Alan Skrainka, chief market strategist at Edward Jones.



But breadth was broadly negative as 1,689 shares fell on the New York Stock Exchange compared with 1,419 that moved higher. On the Nasdaq, decliners easily beat out advancers 2,257 to 1,920.



Volume was moderate with 849.9 million shares traded on the Big Board and 1.47 billion shares on Nasdaq.



Insurers and drug stocks traded higher. American International Group gained 2-3/8 to 107-3/4. The world's largest insurer may be interested in acquiring Massachusetts insurer Trust Insurance Co., according to a Boston Globe report.



Potential merger partners Pharmacia & Upjohn   and Monsanto Co.  inched higher after offering sceptical investors a set of upbeat earnings forecasts to gain some support for their deal.



Pharmacia gained 2 to 46-5/8 and Monsanto was up 3/4 at 36-13/16.



Bellwether technology gained ground, helping the Nasdaq hold late gains after sliding into negative territory in early trading. Microsoft Corp. , a Dow component, rose 1-11/16 to 117-9/16 after hitting a new high of 118.



Dell Computer Corp.  also rose 9/16 to 50-5/16.



On the down side, telecommunications companies slumped including shares of AT&T , off 1-5/16 at 52-7/8. AT&T fell back after Bell Atlantic Corp.  got clearance from the Federal Communications Commission to offer long distance phone service in New York.



AT&T said it expects to file a court challenge to the ruling. Bell Atlantic slipped 1-5/16 to 64-5/16.



Lucent Technologies Inc.  also fell back on worries about future profits. The stock closed down 3-1/2 at 76-7/16.



DuPont Photomasks Inc.  dropped 15-9/16 after Bear Stearns cuts its rating on the maker of equipment used to print microscopic circuits on silicon wafers to neutral from buy.



Shares of computer equipment maker 3Com Inc.  fell 5-3/8 to 47-3/4 after a profit warning.



((Wall Street Desk 212-859-1730)).



(C) Reuters Limited 1999.


Document lba0000020010908dvcm07mwp




 Business 
 Locked Out - Small investors lose when companies share market-moving information only with a select few 

 Adam Levy 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
1,270 words
22 December 1999
The Star-Ledger Newark, NJ
NSL
FINAL
051
English
(c) 1999 The Star-Ledger. All rights reserved.

 During the first 30 minutes of trading on Aug. 12, Mark Trautman watched the market value of Clorox Co. drop by $1.8 billion, or 14.5 percent, costing him $1 million. 

 The bleach maker had reported a 6 percent gain in fiscal fourth-quarter profit on a 3 percent drop in sales. Trautman, who invests $65 million at Shay Asset Management in New York, was convinced something else had caused Clorox stock to drop 15 points. Little did he know that Clorox Chairman Craig Sullivan was warning investors and analysts on an invitation-only conference call that profit wouldn't meet expectations for the next two quarters. 

 ''It's outrageous that I didn't have the same information as some others," says Trautman, who now holds 92,000 Clorox shares. "I was completely in the dark." 

 Almost daily, companies from Wal-Mart Stores Inc. to Apple Computer Inc. to Abercrombie & Fitch Co. dole out market-moving information to big investors and analysts in conference calls, closed- door meetings, or one-on-one conversations. That gives some large investors a chance to bail out or profit and leaves some smaller money managers at a disadvantage. 

 When companies parcel out critical information to some investors and not to others, it's known as selective disclosure. While experts don't always agree on when it occurs or even whether it's illegal, regulators say selective disclosure is unethical and damages the integrity of the stock market. "Selectiveness is a disservice to investors, and it undermines the fundamental principle of fairness," U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission chairman Arthur Levitt said in an October speech in New York. "The practice is downright deceptive and verges on illegality." 

 Everyone with a stake in the stock market is affected by selective disclosure. About 78.7 million people own shares - either directly or through mutual funds and pension plans - up 86 percent from 1983, according to a survey by the Investment Company Institute and the Securities Industry Association. 

 Yet many money managers can't get timely information from companies. 

 ''The playing field isn't level," says Fredric Russell, chief executive of Fredric E. Russell Investment Management Co., a Tulsa, Okla., firm that manages $75 million. "Some investors are more equal than others." 

 ''News has a way of filtering first to the ears of big, powerful investors and analysts," says Carl Domino, who manages $2.4 billion at Carl Domino Associates in West Palm Beach, Fla. "Some get invited to meetings before others. That's the way corporate America works." 

 Companies say they're not trying to hide anything and have legitimate reasons for giving information to a screened group of investment professionals. 

 ''It's not feasible to invite everyone on a conference call," says Craig Manson, vice president of investor relations at Ceridian Corp. of Minneapolis, which provides human resources services such as payroll processing for corporations. "Conference calls are an enormous expense, a huge chunk of my budget." He says a quarterly conference call that may include as many as 120 analysts and investors costs more than $10,000. 

 Conference calls cost companies a flat fee plus at least 30 cents per line per minute and additional charges for archiving the presentations and replays. If Ceridian held four conference calls per year at a total cost of $50,000, that would amount to less than 1/100 of 1 percent of the $393.8 million it spent on selling, general and administrative (SG&A) costs last year. 

 Wal-Mart, the world's biggest retailer, says the lines would clog if it opened up conference calls to all of its interested shareholders. 

 ''Physically, we'd have a hard time getting everybody on," says Wal-Mart senior vice president and treasurer Jay Fitzsimmons, who also cited the expense of hosting a teleconference. Wal-Mart had SG&A costs of $22.4 billion last year. 

 In November, Wal-Mart scrapped its quarterly conference call and instead provides all investors with a phone number to access pre-recorded comments related to its earnings. 

 Other companies don't want small investors on their calls because, they say, these listeners might be misled. 

 ''Ours isn't a simple call," says Joseph Kolshak, director of investor relations at Delta Air Lines, the third-largest U.S. airline. "It's really targeted for a specialized audience." 

 Gillette, Caterpillar and IBM say they prefer small investors to get information from the Wall Street analysts who track the companies. 

 ''We're more comfortable with individual investors' getting an account of the calls from the analysts," says Hervey Parke, IBM's director of investor relations. 

 Big investors and analysts - those who benefit the most from selective disclosure - like the practice. 

 ''I don't mind companies' restricting attendance on calls and conferences -as long as I'm invited," says Anthony Valencia, an analyst at Van Deventer & Hoch, a Glendale, Calif., firm that manages $1.5 billion. "As a big investor with a big stake in the company, of course I appreciate having a head start on critical information before others." 

 Wall Street analysts also covet the inside scoop so vital to enticing prospective investors to buy. Company executives, in turn, mete out information to gain favor with brokerage analysts whose influential buy recommendations can make or break stocks. "Executives believe they'll get good coverage from analysts if they give them selected information," says Brian Bruce, a finance professor at Southern Methodist University's graduate business school who studies the flow of information from companies to investors. 

 The SEC's Levitt is blunt in his condemnation of the ties between Wall Street and companies. 

 ''Analysts act more like promoters and marketers than unbiased and dispassionate analysts," Levitt said in his October speech, calling the ties between companies and analysts "a web of dysfunctional relationships." 

 Some companies invoke federal copyright law either to restrict access to the conference calls or to prevent distribution of recordings to those who couldn't attend. 

 For the past year, General Motors Corp., the world's largest automaker, has been copyrighting its conference calls to deter others from rebroadcasting them and to ward off some listeners. Copyright law, though, doesn't confer the ownership of calls that those companies assert, says David Nimmer, the leading expert on the subject in the U.S. Copyright law, he says, doesn't cover conference calls because such calls involve impromptu conversations between several parties and are not written statements. 

 ''Federal copyright law doesn't apply to conference calls because it only applies to works fixed in a tangible medium of expression," says Nimmer, a lawyer with the Los Angeles firm Irell & Manella. "A conversation wouldn't qualify." 

 The SEC has done plenty of jawboning to discourage selective disclosure, but little else. 

 That's because the law is far from clear on the issue, says John Coffee, a Columbia University professor of securities law. While SEC rules prohibit selective disclosure, the agency has never specified what it is. 

 ''The SEC hasn't tried to push on selective disclosure," Coffee says, "in part because it hasn't spelled out what it is but also because it's hard to prove." The SEC would be able to prosecute selective disclosure, he adds, only when it's clearly insider trading. 

 1. Fund manager Mark Trautman, above, says it's "outrageous" that he doesn't get the same information bigger investors get from companies. SEC Chairman Arthur Levitt agrees, saying the practice is "downright deceptive." 

Document nsl0000020010828dvcm01x25


 Clearwater, Fla.-Based IMRglobal Corp. to Shift Focus to E-commerce 

 Ameet Sachdev 
584 words
22 December 1999
KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: St. Petersburg Times - Florida
KRTBN
English
Copyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)

 CLEARWATER, Fla.--IMRglobal Corp. is remaking itself to exploit the booming demand for electronic-commerce services, an overhaul that will reduce fourth-quarter earnings by $11 million to $13 million. 

 The information-technology services company said Tuesday it will close two of the nine development centers it uses to design software for customers. IMRglobal has found that its Internet-services business requires more software design to be done at customers' work places, leaving excess capacity at its development centers. 

 The two centers are in Northern Ireland and England and employ about 110 people. A company official said the number of job cuts will be fewer than 110 but could not be more specific. He said there will be no layoffs at the Clearwater headquarters at this time. 

 The changes are being made to boost the fastest growing part of the company. Electronic-commerce services accounted for nearly one-fourth of IMRglobal's revenues of $62.1 million in the third quarter. 

 "I don't think anyone could have foreseen how big e-business was going to be," said Vincent Addonisio, executive vice president of IMRglobal. "We have to position the company to be where the customers are." 

 Still, the restructuring moves add to what has already been a tumultuous last four months at IMRglobal. The transition away from fixing software problems related to the year 2000 date change has not been easy. A profit warning in September sent IMRglobal's stock plunging to $7, well below its 52-week high of $32.62 1/2. Two months later, president John Hindman resigned as part of a management restructuring that consolidated control with chief executive Satish Sanan. 

 Meanwhile, Sanan was dealing with a personal crisis. The stock decline caused a bank to call personal loans it made to Sanan, for which he had pledged his shares in the company as collateral. Sanan borrowed $20 million from the company to pay back banks, then sold more than 2.6 million shares to private investors to pay back the company. 

 The stock has recovered slightly since September. Shares rose 18 3/4 cents to $12.37 1/2 Tuesday. 

 IMRglobal hopes the overhaul will raise its profile on Wall Street. The Internet services industry is exploding as online commerce continues to grow. Analysts predict the market for e-commerce services will grow from $8 billion to more than $80 billion in the next four to five years. 

 Companies in this sector are enjoying phenomenal runs in the stock market. Viant Corp., based in Boston, closed at $97.121/2 Tuesday after going public at $16 in June. Another Massachusetts company, Sapient Corp., is trading at $122. It went public in 1996 at $21 a share. 

 Besides start-ups, IMRglobal is competing in a field that includes behemoths like IBM and Andersen Consulting. "IBM created the term "e-business,'" said Andy Burns, an analyst at PaineWebber in San Francisco. 

 The costs to grow IMRglobal's e-commerce business will add up to at least $11 million. Besides job reductions, the company will write off certain mainframe hardware and software assets and increase training dollars to help employees learn new technologies. 

 The costs will be reflected in a onetime charge in the fourth quarter that will equal 28 cents to 32 cents a share. Analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial expected the company to post net income of 12 cents a share in the period. 

Document krtbn00020010828dvcm02bbq


 Business 
 IN THE MONEY 

 Bill Tucker, Terry Keenan, Daryn Kagan 
9,795 words
22 December 1999
16:00
CNNfn: In The Money
ITHM
English
(c) 1999 Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved.

 TERRY KEENAN, CNN ANCHOR:  Wall Street is at fever pitch, tech fever that is.  Can the red-hot Nasdaq put a little heat in your portfolio? We`ll check the Nasdaq race to 4000. 

 BILL TUCKER, CNN ANCHOR:  Plus, the bulls pay tribute to the first lady of finance.  We`ll talk live with Muriel Siebert about the bigger issue of insider trading. 

 KEENAN:  Then, spread the wealth.  We`ll show you cyber strategies for teaching your kids the joy of charitable giving. 

 ANNOUNCER:  From CNN and CNNfn, this is IN THE MONEY with Terry Keenan, Bill Tucker and Daryn Kagan. 

 TUCKER:  Good morning, everyone and welcome to IN THE MONEY.  I`m Bill Tucker. 

 KEENAN:  And I`m Terry Keenan. 

 Well, Wall Street is winding down a bit for the holiday season. But don`t let down your guard.  We had an explosive rally late yesterday. Can it continue?  We`re going to talk tech and get some picks from Merrill Lynch`s top tech guru in just a minute. 

 TUCKER:  And we are also going to take a look at 3Com.  A lot of people are asking Santa for a Palm Pilot this Christmas, but should 3Com be a stock in your stocking?  It is our "Stock of the Day." 

 KEENAN:  We are also going to talk with Mark Greenberg of Invesco Funds.  His portfolio is up 47 percent this year.  He has done it without the help of too many tech stocks.  We`re going to look at what he`s buying now. 

 TUCKER:  But first, here`s a look at what they are buying and selling on Wall Street this Wednesday.  And we start with a split market, split in an unusual direction.  The Dow at the moment is up, albeit modestly, three points.  Really hurting the Dow today, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Honeywell, the techs in other words, experiencing a little bit of sell-off.  The Nasdaq Composite at the moment down 15 3/4 points.  This market, though, don`t forget is up 78 percent year to date coming into today.  So this sell-off hardly worth note in a market that has been so strong this year. 

 The advance-decline ration, well declines have it on both exchanges, 4:3 on the Nasdaq, 5:4 on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 KEENAN:  OK, let`s take a look at some of the standouts this morning. And Mapquest a standout to the downside.  That stock is down about 6 1/2.  AOL is buying it for $1.1 billion in stock, but investors don`t like the price because shareholders are only going to get about $27 worth of AOL`s stock for their Mapquest share. 

 Corel, this of course has been a huge high-flier, down sharply today, off 4 1/2, off a high of 45.  It is warning of a fourth-quarter loss of 14 cents.  Analysts were expecting a profit there of 12 cents. So a big disappointment. 

 Coca-Cola shares to the upside.  Merrill Lynch giving a helping hand to that stock, naming it its "Focus One" stock of the week. 

 And 3Com, down about 7 1/2 right now.  Its earnings were three cents above estimates, but it is warning of sluggish sales next quarter and it is our "Stock of the Day." So we`ll have a lot more on that stock in just a moment. 

 There`s the bond, a bit of a push to the upside after a huge selloff yesterday.  We are up an eighth of a point.  GDP numbers very strong, growth at 5.7 percent in the third quarter, but the bond market likes the inflation component of that report, which showed no signs of inflation. 

 And despite investor exuberance, the incredible performance of the Nasdaq Composite may be testing the limits of market credibility. A relatively narrow selection of high-flyers account for much of the gain, companies like Internet hardware maker Cisco Systems. 

 But according to one leading stock strategist, some old favorites with new energy may support the sector. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 RALPH ACAMPORA, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES:  There is rotation in the technology, we are starting to get Microsoft and Dell coming back, and you know, that`s what makes it move: rotation. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 KEENAN:  Well, the Nasdaq, of course, is made up of more than just Silicon sensations.  Every stock in the index is assigned to one of eight different industry sectors, each with its own sub-index.  In 1999, three of those eight sectors, banks, transports and insurance, have stumbled badly; finance, though, gained more than 33 percent. But the other half of the composite, that is the real story.  It lifted the index into orbit.  The industrials, the biotechs have been incredibly strong this year, telecoms all exploding to the upside, while computers gained more than 98 percent in the last 12 months, as you can see there, almost doubling. 

 Industry observers tout the Internet as a source of almost unlimited opportunity, but businesses based on the Web may be more of a gamble. True believers on Wall Street are sticking to the faith.      (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 RYAN ALEXANDER, WIT CAPITAL:  Tremendous amount of resources and effort, as well as consumer awareness, is being usurped and spent on- line.  And so companies like eToys, Barnes&Noble.com, even companies like uBid, are doing a very good job of providing customers with very quality experience. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 KEENAN:  Still, let`s take a look at these stocks.  It hasn`t been all fun and games for investors in eToys, there you see the fall when eToys shares have lost more than half their value since October. As for Barnes&Noble.com, 1999 brought more pros than payoffs, its shares nearing their lows of the year. 

 TUCKER:  Well, that brings up the big question:  If you don`t already own technology stocks, is now too late to get in?  Joining us from Merrill Lynch is the global tech fund adviser Paul Meeks.  His top holdings include Veritas Software, AOL and Microsoft, as well as Cisco, Nokia and Yahoo!, all brilliant performers so far this year. 

 And Paul, good morning and welcome to IN THE MONEY. 

 PAUL MEEKS, MERRILL LYNCH GLOBAL TECHNOLOGY FUND:  Good to see you again, happy holidays. 

 TUCKER:  Happy holidays to you.  You know, you talk about this market being up 77, 78 percent year to date.  I was just over at the computers looking at baseline, we are up 176 percent over October a year ago, which really -- you know, number one, it`s unbelievable, but number two, it really does add some poignancy into the question.  Is it too late to get into the tech stocks? 

 MEEKS:  I continue to be a secular tech bull, though I am a little bit worried about what`s going to transpire between now and, I call it, Valentine`s Day, because I continue to be worried about the valuations. I play in a world that has very high valuations, but these are extreme. I do worry about unexpected increase in interest rates, and I do worry a tad about Y2K spending lockdowns in technology. 

 KEENAN:  What happens come Valentine`s Day, the love affair is back on? 

 MEEKS:  I actually think so, because I can easily make the case that the fundamentals in the technology sector are going to be brighter for calendar 2000 after Valentine`s Day, than they were all through `99 because at that point, we will definitely say good-bye to the Y2K issue. 

 TUCKER:  Well, make the case for us then, if you will, you know, you have a wonderful stock like Cisco trading at 130, 140 times earnings, it has got 45 percent growth rate, I mean how much richer a valuation can a stock carry?      MEEKS:  Well, I believe that in technology, the strong continue to get stronger, particularly as these companies become more and more successful.  They can earn more and more cash, which can generate more and more R&D development projects.  So those stocks will end up doing very well.  We are now in an era of heavy, heavy, heavy e-commerce spending, which I think is going to really propel things. 

 KEENAN:  Yet I notice, Paul, none of the e-commerce plays are in your top 10.  Do you like any of them? 

 MEEKS:  Well, we own America Online, and we own some other Internet names, including Amazon, eBay, Exodus Communications, Inktomi and Yahoo!.  So we are there, though the purpose of our fund is to be a bit more diversified and not load up the portfolio with dot.coms, because that is a bit risky. 

 TUCKER:  If you were going to pick an area of technology, do you have a sector that you favor over the rest? 

 MEEKS:  I really do like the Internet, though you really have to be aware of the risk/reward ratios.  I do like contract manufacturing quite a bit.  I do like communications-based semiconductors, and also the telecom equipment groups, that continue to be a stellar performer. 

 KEENAN:  OK, thanks a lot, Paul, we appreciate it. 

 MEEKS:  Good to see you. 

 KEENAN:  Paul Meeks, joining us from Princeton.  He runs the Global Technology Fund for Merrill Lynch. 

 TUCKER:  And can the Nasdaq continue its record-setting pace. Well, let`s get an update on how that index is doing today, and check in with Charles Molineaux at the Nasdaq/Amex marketsite. 

 A little bit of profit-taking maybe today, Charles? 

 CHARLES MOLINEAUX, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, definitely, Bill, but only a little at the moment.  We are down 14 points at 3897 off of our lows for the session.  We have gotten all the way down to 3885 briefly, and bounced right back up from there, although the number of stocks going down is still outnumbering the ones going up by about a 4:3 ratio, that is pretty bad. 

 Take a look at Healtheon, though.  It is doing very nicely, 2 7/16, it is up 6.6 percent.  It is an on-line health information company and it is buying Kinetra.  That is a joint venture of Eli Lilly and Electronic Data Systems.  It helps distribute clinical documents and handle administrative transactions. 

 Genome Therapeutics is also doing very nicely, up 6 3/16.  That is a gain of 68, almost 69 percent, on news of a new deal to fight osteoporosis, Genome identifies and discovers genes associated with diseases.  It has a new partnership with American Home Products pharmaceutical division.  They will jointly new look for new therapies for osteoporosis.  It could be worth close to $120 million for Genome. Oracle also doing pretty nicely, up 3.75, almost four percent, on news it is reportedly in talks with Boeing to create an electronic marketplace for airline parts.  This will be a foray by Oracle into the red-hot business-to-business Internet sector, which is expected to be much bigger than the business-to-consumer field.  Just last month, Oracle said it was creating a business-to-business Internet venture with Ford. 

 Qualcomm, however, is not doing so hot.  Look at that, it is down by $1.50, or about three-tenths of one percent, sitting just under $500 a share.  It says it is going to make an announcement about selling its hand-set business.  Qualcomm has had a huge run-up since speculation brokeout that the cell phone giants Nokia or Motorola might be interested in buying it.  Analysts have been predicting a deal could happen this week.  Apparently, we could have a little selling on the news or even in anticipation of the news after of course Qualcomm has had its tremendous run-up. 

 Meanwhile, we are recovering yet again in the Nasdaq.  We are still in negative territory, but right now down by only nine points at 3901. That`s right, we are back above the 3900 mark -- Bill, Terry. 

 KEENAN:  OK, thank you, Charles, Charles Molineaux. 

 And you know what, I don`t mind a one point pullback in Qualcomm. It doesn`t even bother me. 

 TUCKER:  Why?  Because we picked it up at 265 on the IN THE MONEY portfolio.  You know, it is interesting though, there have been rumors all week long that they were going to announce the sale of this hand- set business.  The rumors Charles mentioned:  Briefing.com is reporting that the company is calling analysts and saying they`re going to announce it after the close today.  So I don`t know why that`s not good for another little pop, but... 

 KEENAN:  You would think it might -- could take it over 500, who knows, in this crazy market. 

 TUCKER:  You would think so. 

 Well, the Federal Communications Commission is giving Bell Atlantic the go-ahead into the $80 billion market known as long distance.  Let`s head down to the New York Stock Exchange and to Fred Katayama. 

 And, Fred, can you give us an update on Bell Atlantic stock? 

 FRED KATAYAMA, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, right now, you know, Bell Atlantic is just about -- it`s currently holding a press conference at this hour with FTC Chairman Bill Kennard, addressing the troops on its decision as to -- there you have pictures of the press conference going on right now.  Bell Atlantic is expected to gain approval from the FCC to provide long distance service.  It will be providing service to 6.6 million people in the New York State area who already subscribe to Bell Atlantic`s local service.      Among other stocks to watch is Eastman Kodak.  The company is naming Robert Brust as its new CFO.  It`ll replace -- he`ll replace Harry Kavetas, who passed away in May.  Now, Brust comes to Eastman Kodak from the computer company Unisys where he led a two-year successful turnaround effort. 

 Right now, taking a look at shares of Eastman Kodak, it is trading up more than $2.  Bell Atlantic, the press conference we saw earlier, that stock trading up a fraction at this hour. 

 Micron Technology another stock to keep your eye on.  The company is expected to come in with its earnings today after the close of trading. Micron Technology right now is trading down almost 1 point. The company`s expected report, first-quarter earnings, of 85 cents per share, that will compare with the first-quarter loss last year of 19 cents a share. 

 And the drug maker American Home in minus territory late Tuesday. A Mississippi judge revoked a $150 million award to five former Fen-Phen diet drug users; that after AHP said it settled nearly all the remaining diet drug suits in the States. 

 And at this hour, we`ve got declining shares pulling ahead of advancing shares.  That`s a change from the trading pattern we`ve seen the past few days where advancing shares were trumping declining share. And at this hour, trading is rather active.  We`ve got $295 million shares changing hands with the Dow Jones Industrials pulling ahead, up 24 points in a day that`s been marked by directionless trading. Basically, the Dow`s been in and out of positive territory. 

 Terry and Bill, back to you. 

 KEENAN:  OK, thanks Charles -- Charles -- that`s not Charles. 

 TUCKER:  That`s not Charles, that`s Fred -- Fred Katayama down on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. 

 KEENAN:  They don`t look at all alike, I know. 

 TUCKER:  Well, it`s a tech kind of day.  You know, you lose your focus when you look at that stock. 

 KEENAN:  OK, coming up next on IN THE MONEY, we`re going to have the latest on the wildfires that are raging out of control near Los Angeles. 

 TUCKER:  And then we`ll see how Wall Street is putting out the latest insider trading fire with our special guest, known as the first lady of finance, Muriel Siebert. 

 KEENAN:  That`s not her, though. 

 TUCKER:  No, that`s not her, that`s the latest scandal on Wall Street. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK)      KEENAN:  A "Wake-Up Call" this morning to fans of rap artist Puff Daddy.  He`s expanding his Internet empire Notorious.com.  He`s looking for $7.5 million in startup capital.  Puff Daddy`s Notorious is headed for an IPO, he says, in 2001.  He predicts revenues of $32 million within its first year.  And I`d like to go on that road show. 

 TUCKER:  I know, exactly.  I`d like to be there to watch it. 

 Well, it`s time now to check the hour`s top news stories.  And for that, we of course check in with Daryn down in Atlanta. 

 DARYN KAGAN, CNN ANCHOR:  Hi, Bill and Terry. 

 We`re going to start with the story we`ve been following all morning on CNN.  In Southern California where flames are threatening dozens of homes this hour, firefighters and helicopters are battling two wildfires that are being fanned by Santa Ana winds and being fed by trees and dry underbrush. 

 Let`s check, now, with our Jim Hill.  He is in Glendale just outside of downtown Los Angeles, with the latest -- Jim. 

 JIM HILL, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  That`s right.  Here in Glendale, the situation is looking up for this particular fire.  It`s burned about 600 acres since it broke out just before 10:00 last night in La Canada Flintridge, which is a neighboring community. 

 Now, this is a very dry hillside situation here.  It has not rained in Los Angeles for probably eight months or more, and the Santa Ana winds were also a great problem.  They were gusting 30, 40 miles an hour last night into the early morning hours giving firefighters a real difficult time.  However, the winds have laid -- or did lay down during the early morning hours.  Firefighters were able to get a line around that fire, at least 70 percent of it.  And the winds are picking up now, but it is 70 percent contained and that appears to be holding. 

 We can talk about the latest on this fire which, so far, has not destroyed any homes or injured anyone seriously.  The latest on that from fire Captain Eric Indermill from the Glendale Fire Department. 

 Captain, what`s the situation right now? 

 CAPT. ERIC INDERMILL, GLENDALE FIRE DEPARTMENT:  At this time, as you said, the fire is 70 percent contained.  We have units in position in front of the fire where the winds will be driving it as they come back up.  Our hope is that we can effectively surround the fire with what we call a black line for a considerable depth back into the fire and provide a safe area along the edge of the fire. 

 One of the problems with this kind of fire behavior is that the high winds do sweep up the embers and ash and carry them across the line, and it`s possible for the fire to spot as much as half a mile away from the area where it`s currently burning.  For that reason, we have units on patrol in the residential area ahead of the fire in order to make sure that we`re able to jump right on anything that does start. 

 HILL:  OK, thank you very much. 

 Captain Eric Indermill from the Glendale Fire Department. 

 This was a cooperative effort between Glendale Fire Department and L.A. County.  Some 500 firefighters, we`re told, were on the lines, some 100 pieces of equipment.  We had air tankers at dawn today lending their assistance. 

 So things are look pretty good right now, and if the winds don`t do anything unexpected and shift direction, it looks like this fire will be contained later today. 

 I`m Jim Hill reporting live from Glendale, California. 

 KAGAN:  Jim, thank you.  That`s good news. 

 From a place that has not enough rain to a place that has too much: Troops and rescue teams are working hard to recover victims and survivors of mudslides and floods in Venezuela.  Soldiers have taken control of hard-hit coastal towns in an effort to prevent looting. Thousands of people are feared swept out to sea or buried beneath tons of mud and debris.  The Venezuelan government is considering a plan to designate some neighborhoods as memorial ground.  Such areas would be left undisturbed. 

 With back-to-back Christmas and New Year`s weekends just ahead, the State Department has issued a new global travel advisory.  Excuse me -- it urges Americans traveling overseas to be vigilant and avoid large crowds.  And the Clinton administration says the only country where it has identified specific threats against Americans is Jordan. One official said the new worldwide caution is a yellow light and that they don`t want people to panic. 

 That is the -- that`s the news headlines for now.  A little bit later we`ll be talking about kids and money:  How much of an allowance did you get when you were a kid?  Today`s kids are raking it in. We`ll tell you what the average allowance is coming up on IN THE MONEY. 

 Right now, back to Bill and Terry. 

 KEENAN:  All right, thanks a lot, Daryn.  I`m sure it`s a lot more than either one of us got. 

 TUCKER:  And it`s a lot more than I pay, I bet you, too. 

 KEENAN:  OK, we hope your kids aren`t watching. 

 Well, our next guest is truly one of a kind.  She was the first woman to own a seat on the New York Stock Exchange.  She was also the first woman to own an NYSE member brokerage firm, and she was the first woman to serve as the superintendent of banks in New York State. 

 TUCKER:  And she once remarked, I feel as if I`ve spent my entire life breaking down doors.  Well, yesterday, in acknowledgement of all the doors she`s left busted up in her wake, the New York Stock Exchange picked her to ring the closing bell -- fitting tribute -- and now she`s here with us.  She, of course, is Muriel Siebert of Muriel Siebert. 

 And Muriel, good morning and welcome to IN THE MONEY. 

 MURIEL SIEBERT, FOUNDER & CEO, MURIEL SIEBERT & CO.:  Thanks. What a welcome! 

 TUCKER:  Hope you had to kick no doors down to get here. 

 SIEBERT:  Not here. 

 TUCKER:  Let`s talk about -- let start by talking about this market. It has been a really remarkable year.  I mean, even if you look just at the Dow, which is up better than 20 percent, and then you look at Nasdaq, what are we to make of this, and should we begin getting a little nervous here? 

 Well, I`m a little concerned because you`ve got two different markets, 50 or 60 percent of the stocks are down, this year, and some of them are down a lot.  On the other hand, we`ve got an economy that is roaring ahead, inflation seems to be contained, even with the increase in the price of oil, and it doesn`t seem to have too many weaknesses in the economy.  Housing starts were down a little bit, probably because of the quarter-of-a -- three-quarter-of-a-point increases. 

 KEENAN:  I want to ask you about women on Wall Street, because this has been an incredible bull market, more and more women are investing than ever before, yet we still don`t see a lot of women running Wall Street firms, even coming close to running Wall Street firms.  What advice would you give to a young woman who might be interested in a career on Wall Street? 

 SIEBERT:  I think keep coming.  I think the opportunities are being created.  It`s been very slow.  There is still no woman in the true executive suite of chairman, vice president, vice chairman of a major Wall Street firm, and that hurts me, but it will happen.  I think what happens in a lot of cases, the women have come in, they`ve put a few million dollars in their pocket after working 10, 12 years and they say, I have enough money, I can do something else, and they leave because they`re not willing to either put in the hours -- Wall Street`s a tough place.  You know, you`ve got to be pretty fast on your feet and you`ve got to think and it`s competitive.  I happen to enjoy that routine, but not everybody does. 

 KEENAN:  And it`s not a place that`s open to women having children, taking a few years off and coming back. 

 SIEBERT:  No, because the markets have been moving so fast, technology has been moving so fast, your accounts will be covered by someone else the minute you walk out of the door. 

 TUCKER:  You know, I want to take us to today`s headlines and not talk about a specific case but talk about the idea of insider trading, which got razed in the news, yesterday.  And, you know, we`re speaking around here, a lot of people, when they get together on Wall Street or in this newsroom, pass on information that they get:  Oh, did you hear that so and so is talking to so and so.  I`m wondering if we could talk for a minute about the concept of insider trading and what exactly is it that constitutes insider trading on Wall Street, these days? 

 SIEBERT:  As I understand it -- an insider trading can involve all kinds of things:  It`s the passing on of not rumors but things that are -- look like they`re going to occur or be it higher earnings, lower earnings; mergers; new products that are coming out soon, immediately, not in the development where they may be six months, nine months, 12 months in testing and may not come out.  And I think what you`ve got to do in insider trading is you`ve got to look where it`s coming from.  A lot of the rumors are no more than they -- we pay from them; they`re worth nothing.  Nothing from nothing is nothing. 

 KEENAN:  And you get a lot of them for free on a lot of the chat rooms, lately, which is a whole new phenomenon. 

 SIEBERT:  Oh, that`s another story.  I`m very sensitive to that, because a lot of the people in the chat rooms, they`re telling people to buy while they`re selling. 

 KEENAN:  Right. 

 SIEBERT:  And yet you can`t stop this. 

 TUCKER:  But you have a lot of people coming on Wall -- coming into Wall Street now, a lot of investors who are getting access to information they`ve never ever had before, and they`re seeing this stuff out there on the chat rooms, and it perhaps carries a greater weight.  I mean, is the only word of caution: beware what you read? 

 SIEBERT:  Well, the only word of caution is, if something is that cheap, chances are there`s something wrong.  When they tell you about this $2 stock that`s going to 100, I`d like to know what`s -- what`s there. 

 KEENAN:  OK.  Thanks a lot, Muriel. 

 SIEBERT:  You`re welcome. 

 KEENAN:  Congratulations. 

 SIEBERT:  Thank you. 

 KEENAN:  Muriel Siebert. 

 TUCKER:  Well, coming up on IN THE MONEY:  Wall Street is palming off shares of the maker of Palm Pilot.  Is it just a blip on the radar for the PC networker 3Com?  It`s our "Stock of the Day." 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK)      KEENAN:  Quiet pre-holiday trading on the New York Stock Exchange.  The Dow holding onto some slim gains, but the tech stocks in the index, including IBM and Hewlett-Packard, to the downside. 

 TUCKER:  All right, now onto our "Stock of the Day" segment, this morning. 

 It`s a rough day on the markets for the number-two networking company, 3Com, as the stock drops.  Is now a time for investors to get in?  3Com beating the Street with second-quarter profits of 37 cents a share, three cents better than had been expected.  But while income rose, revenue declined.  Overall sales were down by four percent, and with a planned spin-off of its successful Palm Pilot unit, we look at what`s left at 3Com. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 (voice-over):  Lately, 3Com`s been acting more like 3Palm, as in Palm Pilot.  The company has been riding the success of the popular hand-held computer, which holding about 70 percent of the market.  But investors are getting sweaty palms about the networking company`s prospects after it spins off the hand-held unit. 

 Sales of network equipment like switches and routers declined, this quarter, as did sales of regular and high-speed modems.  That hurt the stock, much of the year, which is up just 19 percent, most of those gains coming within the last couple of months.  That`s a far cry from competitor Cisco, which is up 130 percent, this year. 

 The bulls point to 3Com`s efforts to streamline its operations, a big boost to profits, this quarter, and increasing it`s focus on high- growth areas like wireless networks and high-speed Internet access products.  But the bears point to weak sales ahead, the company saying that next quarter will only match the year before.  And, as it`s Palm computing division moves to license its operating system to competitors, it could hurt the more profitable hardware sales. 

 So, the question is, do we add 3Com to our network of stocks? 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 TUCKER:  Well, if we`re going to, this might not be a bad day to did to do it if we`re going to add it.  It`s down 7 5/16 to 45 and 13/16, Terry. 

 KEENAN:  Well, joining us now with more on 3Com: Edward Jones, tech analyst at -- for Edward Jones.  His name is Dave Powers. 

 And Dave, welcome to IN THE MONEY.  Good to have you with us. 

 DAVID POWERS, EDWARD JONES:  My pleasure. 

 KEENAN:  You`ve a hold on this stock, and now it`s down 7 1/2. What are your thoughts at these prices? 

 POWERS:  Well, my advice for investors is, for those people who own 3Com, continue to hold onto the stock, because we are very excited about the Palm computing business.  Clearly, Palm has a leadership position in its segment.  Sales in that division were up 77 percent year-over-year in this most recent quarter. 

 But 3Com`s a company that has two face.  The first phase is the Palm business; it`s doing very well.  But the rest of 3Com`s business has been stuck in neutral for the past three quarters and hasn`t been growing at all. 

 TUCKER:  Yes, there is a little bit of controversy this morning on the Street about the stock, you have got them at a hold.  SG Cowan takes them from a buy to a neutral.  Merrill Lynch is maintaining its accumulating rate.  Warburg is raising its price targets to 50.  I guess my question here is, David, is this a good way to maybe getting in on owning some of the shares of Palm when it spins off because shareholders will get some of that distribution? 

 POWERS:  Yes, you are right, Bill, and I agree for those people who own 3Com shares right now, our advice is continue to hold onto it. Because as we get closer to this IPO date, come the first quarter of 2000, I think it is going to generate a lot of excitement about 3Com and about the Palm business. 

 Now, let`s face it, you know, the Palm Pilot has a very strong brand name with consumers, and you combine that with the fact that they are growing very rapidly, and they`re profitable, which is unusual for an IPO these days, and I can see people getting pretty excited about the Palm spin-off. 

 And you look at Hewlett-Packard... 

 TUCKER:  Whoa, what happened to Dave? 

 KEENAN:  We lost him. 

 TUCKER:  He went away, we lost him on the satellite.  We`re sorry about that Dave, coming to us from out in St. Louis, and we obviously lost the line.  And but you got enough of Dave`s thoughts, I think, whether we want to make a bindup or not.  If we own it, we get some of Palm`s spin-off, but it is a little bit of a risky bet, in terms of some upside reward here. 

 KEENAN:  It is.  But we want to hear from you and get your opinions on this, so be sure to go to the Web site, cnnfn.com, and cast your vote whether we should buy or not buy shares of 3Com. 

 TUCKER:  All right, coming up on IN THE MONEY:  Folks with time and money to spend are keeping today`s mutual fund hot hand plenty busy. Find out where Mark Greenberg is putting his money now. 

 KEENAN:  Plus, remembering the needy.  We`re going to show you how your kids could use their PCs to show compassion this holiday season. 

 TUCKER:  And here is a look at how you voted yesterday on Goldman Sachs: 59 of you said, yes, put it in.      (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 KEENAN:  You`re looking at a live picture of Lower Manhattan, it`s a crisp winter day here in New York City, but the sun is shining, and you are watching IN THE MONEY. 

 Welcome back.  I`m Terry Keenan. 

 TUCKER:  And I`m Bill Tucker.  It is a busy 30 minutes we have got, including a conversation with a fund manager who has a very hot hand this year.  His fund is up 47 percent, he hardly has any techs in it, and we`ll get his picks in just a little bit. 

 KEENAN:  We also have our "Kids & Money" segment.  Today, `tis the season to teach your kids about charitable giving.  And we`ll have some tips. 

 TUCKER:  And we have number eight on our list of "Stocks of the Decade." Andy Serwer will be here to count that down and give you number eight. 

 KEENAN:  But first, let`s count down the winners and losers on Wall Street at this hour.  We are two hours into the trading day, and the Dow has been pretty much all over the map this morning, with a bias to the upside.  We are seeing a bit of strength in Eastman Kodak and Coca-Cola, so that is helping out things there.  We, of course, only have one more day of trading on Wall Street this week, markets are closed on Friday for Christmas Eve. 

 The Nasdaq Composite giving up some of yesterday`s 127-point gain, the biggest point gain ever, and that is pretty much to be expected.  We are close to our lows of the session right now though, down 22 points. 

 TUCKER:  Let`s take a look at some of the market standouts, and Mapquest standing out to the downside, stock trading at 25 1/2.  It will be acquired by AOL.  But this is a stock deal, it is $1.1 billion in AOL stock, works out to be a valuation of about $27 a share.  So the stock selling down, after closing above 30 yesterday. 

 Corel, fourth-quarter profit warnings, saying it will disappoint to the downside. 

 Cablevision, up, announcing it is going to issue a tracking stock that will contain its programming and entertainment units. 

 And then we have 3Com losing 6 15/16.  3Com, as we have mentioned, beat the Street with earnings yesterday, but warned that this quarter`s results are going to be even with last year and its sales are declining. 

 KEENAN:  You know, a huge shocker from Corel because that, of course, has been one of the highest flyers, that Canadian company, and it is down from a high of 45. 

 Let`s look at what`s going on in the bond market because we have been down seven straight days on the 30-year Treasury.  Today, a bit of a bounce to the upside.  We were down earlier this morning, but yields are holding pretty close to that two-year high of 6.44 percent. And as you can see, the bond seems to be OK with those GDP numbers. They were incredibly strong, the revision for the third quarter, 5.7 percent growth, but the inflation component was OK. 

 TUCKER:  Yes, and it seemed to soothe some of the fears in the market, although there is a growing feeling that the Fed is going to have to act when it moves into next year and raise rates some more. 

 Well, let`s talk about kids and money.  Some parents with young children may have to shell out big bucks on New Year`s Eve, if they need someone to watch the kids while they ring in the year 2000.  It seems that baby-sitters will be in short supply for Y2K.  Surveys show that many baby-sitters will be making up to -- I`m not paying this --$300 for the evening. 

 KEENAN:  Do you have one booked? 

 TUCKER:  No, we don`t have one -- me! 

 KEENAN:  You? 

 TUCKER:  The wife and I, Nancy and I will be doing that. 

 KEENAN:  I don`t have one either, I totally forgot.  But you know, one babysitting service in Utah and Colorado has raised its rates for the night from $16 to $65 an hour. 

 TUCKER:  And that brings us to today`s "Kids & Money" segment. `tis the season for teaching your children that it`s better to give than receive.  And how is that for a turnabout.  Charitable giving has a new spin this year:  You can donate on-line. 

 KEENAN:  The numbers prove that Americans are generous.  They given almost $175 billion in donations, that was last year, and that`s was a 10.7 percent jump over the previous year.  Here to tell us where it goes and how to make the most of the giving spirit is "SmartMoney"`s Nancy Better. 

 And Nancy, how do you get your kids interested in giving something back this holiday season? 

 NANCY BETTER, "SMARTMONEY":  I think there are a lot of ways you can do it, Terry.  But what is exciting I think about all these charities putting up Web sites and allowing you to make on-line donation is that you can get great information quickly.  If you say to your kids, let`s find out, let`s give money to Save The Children or the Red Cross or to whatever it might be, you can point, you can click, you can get information, and the more tangible information you have, I think the easier it is for your children to understand how important it is. 

 TUCKER:  Do you have to sell them on the concept or do just say: Look, we`re going to do this, and this is what you`re going to do? BETTER:  I think you have to really look at what your kids are interested in.  I said to my three kids, you know, we can give $15 each to the World Wildlife Fund, and we`ll buy flashlights for park rangers on overnight duty.  That`s exciting.  Or $100 and buy a two-man tent for these park rangers who are out in the rain forest. 

 I think when there is something tangible, or you spend $15, and you buy immunizations for children in undeveloped countries.  I think children can relate to an actual service or something you are providing for someone in need.  I think it is very exciting for them. 

 TUCKER:  That`s great. 

 KEENAN:  I think Daryn has a question -- Daryn. 

 KAGAN:  Hi, Nancy, down here in Atlanta.  Do you have a suggestion of a particular percentage that a child`s allowance or the money, perhaps that baby-sitter who is making $300 on New Year`s Eve, a percentage they should put towards charity? 

 KEENAN:  Nancy, evidently. can`t hear, Daryn.  But Nancy, what she was saying was:  What type of money limit, you know, should you give your child? 

 BETTER:  What I think is wonderful about a lot of these organizations is that for a very small amount of money, it could be $15, $20, $25, your child can make a tangible contribution, and many of the organizations will send you a T-shirt, they will give you something for free, so that your child really feels that what he`s done has had an impact on the organization.  But it could be a very small amount of money and it could really be worthwhile to the organization. 

 TUCKER:  Now, my question is, does this come out of their allowance or are you making a donation in their name, or how do you handle it? 

 BETTER:  That`s a good question.  I said to my kids:  We can do this as a group, and you contribute a little bit from your own allowances, or we can take some holiday money that has been given to you, mom and dad will match it.  You can do it any which way.  I think the point is, even if it`s $5, that they get the sense that they`re doing something for someone in need at a time when they may be giving, you know, each other and the family so much. 

 KEENAN:  What are some of the best Web sites in terms of...? 

 BETTER:  Well, the World Wildlife Fund Web site won an award for being the top nonprofit Web site.  It`s exciting.  Save the Children has a wonderful Web site; the Children`s Defense Fund, I think, has a fabulous Web site that has a lot of information about human rights and civil rights, and many of them have connections, they can teach kids a lot.  I think there are a lot of exciting Web sites out there, and this is a good time to look. 

 TUCKER:  Are their names intuitive?  Is it like worldwildlife.org? 

 BETTER:  Almost all of them, actually, are; they tend to be: Save the Children, Children`s Defense Fund, Red Cross, World Wildlife.  And there are a couple like Net Aid that have links to others so that you can go online and find links to other organizations that cater to whatever your interests might be. 

 KEENAN:  OK, great, Nancy.  We`ll see you next week.  Happy holidays. 

 BETTER:  Thanks, Bill.  Thank you. 

 Nancy Better of "SmartMoney." Always some useful information. 

 Just ahead on IN THE MONEY:  How do you feel about Y2K?  I`m sick of hearing about it, but we will find out what people are saying from the Gallup Poll`s editor in chief. 

 TUCKER:  That`s just ahead stay with us. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 TUCKER:  ... to the upside, gaining a little bit better than a point. Technology issues suffering some selling today.  That`s weighing on the Dow in the form of Hewlett-Packard and IBM.  The Nasdaq at its lows of the session, down 33 points.  All in all, though, not bad for a market that`s up 78 percent year to date. 

 KEENAN:  That`s for sure. 

 OK, welcome back to IN THE MONEY.  It`s time now to take a look at the news of the day.  And for that, we go back to Atlanta and bring in Daryn -- Daryn. 

 KAGAN:  Terry and Bill, two space shuttle Discovery astronauts are getting ready to take a walk in space.  It`s part of their mission to repair the Hubble Space Telescope.  Crew members used Discovery`s robot arm late yesterday to reach out and grab the crippled telescope and then they placed it in the shuttle`s cargo bay.  In today`s first of three space walks to repair the telescope, astronaut Steven Smith and John Grunsfeld will replace gyroscopes which are used to steady and aim Hubble`s eye.  Discovery is to return to Earth -- it`s scheduled to return to Earth, at least, on Monday. 

 And let`s talk about the year 2000, which is getting closer, just about 10 days away.  Are Americans getting more nervous about possible Y2K problems? 

 Let`s check in with Gallup`s editor in chief, Frank Newport, to find out what folks in America are saying. 

 Good morning again, Frank. 

 FRANK NEWPORT, GALLUP POLL EDITOR-IN-CHIEF:  Hello, Daryn. 

 We don`t anticipate a lot of economic impact, as far as the public`s concerned, because, in answer to your question, they`re not getting more nervous.  In fact, as we`ve tracked it for the National Science Foundation and "USA Today" over the last year, we`ve seen the public actually get less nervous. 

 We can look first at just the basic fever trend graph which shows how Americans think that -- how many Americans think that it`s going to be a major problem -- that`s the top line -- in general, or a major problem for them personally; that`s that bottom line.  You can see the trend is down, down, down. 

 Now, in our most recent poll just completed over the weekend, it`s just been single digits of Americans who think it`s going to be a major problem either generally or for themselves. 

 Economically speaking, relating to money, of course, we asked the public what they think the economic dislocation will be from Y2K, and look on the right side there.  That`s our most recent poll from this weekend.  You can see it`s all over to the right side: 60 percent say it`ll be minor economic impact and 30 percent say none.  Almost no Americans are now saying that it`s going to be a catastrophe economically or even a serious problem economically. 

 Now, retail-wise and otherwise, what are people going to be doing? Well, we asked them just off the top of your head as of Sunday night: What are you planning on doing?  And you can see, about a fifth say they`re going to stockpile stuff; 12 percent say they`re going to withdraw cash, and the rest you can see there on the screen. 

 One factor we did notice when we asked specifically, Daryn:  Are you going to fill up your tank on New Year`s Eve?  Three quarters said yes, and that`s a pretty high number, so that may be one implication from Y2K. 

 Back to you. 

 KAGAN:  Thank you so much. 

 Frank Newport from Gallup. 

 I guess they didn`t ask who`s worried about getting a babysitter on New Year`s Eve, but, Terry, I figured out your problem:  You drop the baby off at the Tuckers, who are staying home, and you and your husband can go out. 

 TUCKER:  We`re not staying home.  We`re going to do the First Night out.  We`re going to go out and wander the streets of Flemington, Daryn. 

 KAGAN:  You take the stroller, the baby no problem. 

 TUCKER:  Just take along -- you got it. 

 KEENAN:  Yes, you take the baby and I`ll go out on the town here in Manhattan. 

 Good idea, Daryn.  Thanks.  I owe you one.      KAGAN:  You`re welcome. 

 TUCKER:  Thanks, Daryn.  We`ll talk after the show, OK? 

 KAGAN:  You got it. 

 KEENAN:  OK, moving on to today`s edition of "Moneywise," we`re going to see how leisure has put a lot of money to work.  The INVESCO Leisure Fund sees opportunities in the hotel sector, the gaming business, sports and cable TV.  Year to date, the fund has had impressive returns way above the S&P 500, up 47 percent with a heavy investment in many household names.  Among its top holdings: Harrah`s, Gemstar and MediaOne.  And you can see how they`re trading at this hour, along with Comcast, Omnicom, Liberty Media stock. 

 The INVESCO Leisure Fund manager, Mark Greenberg, joins us now from Denver to tell us what he is buying now and what the next hot sectors could be. 

 And, Mark, welcome.  Nice to have you with us. 

 MARK GREENBERG, INVESCO LEISURE FUND:  Good to see you again. Good morning. 

 KEENAN:  Good morning.  You know, some of the hotel and gaming stocks have not had a very good year despite the red hot economy. What`s wrong with that sector? 

 GREENBERG:  I think the concern on the hotel stocks is that overbuilding in certain sectors is going to affect earnings over the next year or two.  But, in fact, I think that`s incorrect.  I think this is a terrific buying opportunity.  We`ve added substantially to our Marriott position.  Marriott is the best company, I believe, in the hotel industry and it`s selling at a huge discount to the S&P. Here`s a stock in the low 30s that I think`s going to earn $1.85 in the year 2000.  So it`s a substantial discount to the market and I think they`re going to grow at a 15 percent rate the next five years. 

 On the other hand, the casino stocks have been very good to us. Our Harrah`s position is up better than 65 percent from where we bought it at the end of last year. 

 TUCKER:  One of your more interesting choices looking at your list of top holdings is AT&T`s Liberty Media Group, Mark.  What do you find attractive about that stock? 

 GREENBERG:  Oh, I love Liberty Media.  They`ve made a fortune for INVESCO Leisure Fund shareholders.  And as you know, the stocks -- I don`t know if you have the chart up now, but it`s up over 100 percent last -- this year and up 90 percentage the last two. 

 What Liberty Media does is it`s the largest cable TV programmer and they have substantial stakes in companies such as Time-Warner, parent company of CNN and CNNfn, stakes in Discovery channel, Black Entertainment TV, Encore, Starzz and a lot of other channels.  And cable TV and cable TV advertising are some of the fastest growing markets in America today.  And they`re compounding their earnings growth at better than a 20 percent rate for these cable systems that they have.  In addition to that, they`ve invested in a lot of other businesses such as, they`re a large holder in Sprint PCS and -- which is eventually going to be sold to the Sprint company, and they`ve made better than a 20-fold return on that investment over the last two years.  And they just keep finding good places to invest their money, and that`s great for us. That`s what I`m looking for. 

 KEENAN:  And you`re out there in the cable capital of the nation. Are there any other cable companies that you`re looking at right now? Because there`s been a lot of takeover activity in this sector. 

 GREENBERG:  Well, we`ve made a lot of money with the cable stocks. TCI has been one of our largest holdings.  That was taken over by AT&T; Jones as been one of our largest holdings, and that`s being taken over by Comcast; and MediaOne has been one of our largest holdings, and also being taken over by AT&T. 

 Actually, now we think the opportunities are better in satellite TV, especially EchoStar which has been a great performer this year, and I think they`re going to continue to do well next year; and also General Motors Hughes, which is also -- those are the Dish Network and DirecTV, and I think they both carry CNNfn, so that`s a point in their favor, and they`re getting a big increase in the number of subscribers they`re getting. 

 And what I`m always looking for is companies that are delivering things their customers want, because if you can deliver things your customers want in a profitable -- in a profitable manner, and you can buy the stock at a good valuation, that`s the way I think you make money in the stock market. 

 TUCKER:  All right, Mark, thank you very much for taking the time to be here.  Happy holidays to you, Mark Greenberg of Invesco. 

 KEENAN:  And coming up on IN THE MONEY: a company known for its Titan Communications System has been a titan on Wall Street.  We`re going to unveil stock number eight as we count down the stocks of the decade. 

 TUCKER:  That`s next right after we check.  IN THE MONEY is coming right back. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 KEENAN:  OK, as we head into the millennium, we are, of course, counting down the top-performing stocks of the decade, one of the top 15 percentage gainers of 1990.  None of them started the decade trading at more than $2.50 a share, and that`s, of course, because we went back and adjusted them all for splits. 

 TUCKER:  Everything through splits. 

 KEENAN:  They weren`t penny stocks. 

 TUCKER:  Exactly.  They were not penny stocks, but when adjusted for splits, the smallest percentage gain of the top 15: Sun Microsystems, which today has risen more than 7000 percent. 

 Yesterday, we got all the way up to number nine with Clear Channel. And today, "Fortune`s" Andy Serwer is here with number eight. 

 And Andy, just end the suspense.  What`s number eight? 

 ANDY SERWER, EDITOR-AT-LARGE, "FORTUNE" MAGAZINE:  No drum roll? Forget the drum; we`re just going to go right to it. 

 TUCKER:  No drum roll.  Just get to it. 

 SERWER:  OK.  Tellabs, Tellabs.  Kind of a familiar name to most people. 

 TUCKER:  Yes. 

 SERWER:  The big telecom switching -- digital switch company, the pride of Lyle, Illinois.  And if you had bought $1,000 of this stock in 1990, you would now have $170,000 today. 

 Now, we actually have some news on Tellabs, this morning.  The stock`s down a little bit.  They`re announcing a medium-sized acquisition. They`re acquiring SALIX Communications, switching products, for about $300 million, some maybe a little weakness there. 

 Interesting, you know, we`re starting to see some common ground, here, with some of these companies.  This is another company founded by a young entrepreneur, double E, electrical engineer, as the call them, from Purdue.  His father was a mail carrier in rural Indiana, a guy named Michael Birck, and another real-hard-charging guy.  I think he owns about a billion dollars of the stock, and just -- you know, not a Silicon Valley company, real breadbasket, heart of America, high-tech company.  And Lehman Brothers is panning the table on this company, says they`re going to be an $85 stock coming up. 

 KEENAN:  And sometimes talked about as a takeover target. 

 SERWER:  Oh, yes, you`re right, Terry.  They had that deal with Ciena... 

 KEENAN:  Right. 

 SERWER:  I think it was in 1998.  Really cratered the stock. 

 KEENAN:  (OFF-MIKE) the stock off, yes. 

 SERWER:  That`s right.  And that was a really bad transaction.  I think it was Ciena`s stock dropped, so Tellabs decided to pull out because the exchange wouldn`t have worked. 

 TUCKER:  Yes, and it was a deal that tanked both of their stocks, actually, and Tellabs -- you saw it on the graph, you saw that steep drop down. 

 There`s some other stocks out there I want to talk about, too, while we`ve got you here on the set, and Liberate is one of them. 

 SERWER:  Right, exactly.  Liberate is a really, really interesting story.  You know, on the face of it, you`d think the stock would be doing well today, because they announced a stock split, and we know what that does in this market, and better-than-expected or a narrower than loss than expected, which is, you know, in today`s market, a good thing, too: 23 cents versus an expected loss of 31 cents.  The stock is down pretty sharply, about 11 points or so to 240; it was at 250. 

 This is a really interesting story, though.  Came public in July. I happened to be at company headquarters when they did their IPO in July out in Silicon Valley, and it was really great to be there with all the young engineers going, yippie, we`re millionaires.  The old --this used to be Network Computer, come out of Oracle Corporation, of course. 

 KEENAN:  Right. 

 SERWER:  Larry Ellison`s vision for dumb PC terminals, but they had some good technology to enhance television.  The stock has, obviously, taken off.  There`s is real battle, though, between the shorts and the longs right now, and the shorts were getting squeezed, earlier this week; the stock was running up 20 and 30 points a day. But they`re going up against Oracle, Sun Microsystems, AOL and Lucent, which all have big positions in the company.  So, a really nice battle, here, with Liberate. 

 KEENAN:  We`ll see who wins out. 

 SERWER:  Absolutely. 

 KEENAN:  Thanks, Andy, and we`ll see you tomorrow for number seven. 

 SERWER:  Back tomorrow.  That`s right, guys.  See you. 

 KEENAN:  Thanks, Andy, Andy Serwer. 

 TUCKER:  And that does it for today`s edition of IN THE MONEY. I`m Bill Tucker. 

 KEENAN:  And good-bye from Daryn Kagan and myself as well.  I`m Terry Keenan.  See you back here tomorrow. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 1999 Cable News Network, Inc.  ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.  No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material.  This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document ithm000020010828dvcm0000n




 Business; Financial Desk 
 Market Savvy Dow Drops 113, Yields Soar on Interest Rate Concerns 

From Times Wire Services
609 words
21 December 1999
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-4
English
 Copyright 1999 / The Times Mirror Company 

 The Dow Jones industrial average fell and bond yields rose on concern that Federal Reserve policymakers will signal an intention today to raise interest rates. 

 Speculation that the Fed will announce a bias toward higher rates and raise rates twice next year "could give us a 10% correction" in the major stock indexes, said Robert Bloom, chief investment officer for Friends, Ivory & Sime. 

 The benchmark 30-year Treasury yield soared to a 27-month high of 6.44%, from 6.38% on Friday. 

 The Dow fell 113.16 points, or 1%, to 11,144.27. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 index dipped 2.96 points, or 0.2%, to 1,418.09, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 30.81 points, or 0.8%, to 3,783.87. 

 Nasdaq set its third straight record, the 55th of the year, as investors shoveled money into technology shares with robotic predictability. Nasdaq has risen 71% this year and 39% since Oct. 15. 

 Breadth was poor, as three stocks fell for every two that rose on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Among the highlights: 

 * Tech stalwarts paced Nasdaq's rally. Dell Computer rose $2.13 to $47.69, Cisco Systems gained $3.56 to $103.25, and Yahoo climbed $19.50 to $369.50, a 52-week high. 

 * Several companies got boosts from announcing stock splits. 

 Oracle rose $5.63 to $96.31 after saying it will split its shares 2-for-1 on Jan. 18 for holders of record Dec. 30. The stock is up 235% in 1999. 

 Others advancing, with ratios and dates of splits: Novellus Systems, up $28.38 to $113.56 (3-for-1, payable Jan. 15 for holders of record Dec. 30); Red Hat, up $15.06 to $267.94 (2-for-1, Jan. 7, Dec. 27); Portal Software, up $1 to $109.50 (2-for-1, Jan. 19, Dec. 31); and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, up $2.25 to $130.31 (2-for-1, Jan. 26, Jan. 12). Linux computer system specialist Red Hat is up seventeenfold from its Aug. 11 initial offering. 

 Also setting splits: DoubleClick, down $3.56 to $201.38 (2-for-1, Jan. 10, Dec. 31); and Check Point Software Technologies, down $5.19 to $192.81 (2-for-1, Jan. 30, Jan. 23). 

 * InterVU rose $26.88 to $114.88 after Microsoft said it will invest $30 million in the company, which helps businesses broadcast video and audio over the Net. 

 * Digital Impact jumped $7 to $51.75 after CS First Boston and Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette began coverage of the provider of Internet direct marketing services with "buy" ratings and U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray called it a "strong buy." 

 * Juno Online Services surged $12.63 to $29 after saying it will offer "full" Net access free--for users who don't mind constant advertising. 

 * Trouble continued in the insurance sector, as Progressive slumped $5.94 to $71.06 after warning it will have an underwriting loss in the fourth quarter, with earnings significantly below analyst estimates. The shares are down 58% this year. Progressive's warning prompted PaineWebber to cut its 2000 earnings-per-share estimate to $3.30 a share from $4.10. 

 Also falling on a profit warning: Lason, which manages documents and records for businesses, sank $11.88 to $11.44 after saying fourth-quarter earnings could fall well short of estimates as customers delay purchases until the millennium date change. 

 Market Roundup, C11 

 GRAPHIC-CHART: Daily Diary, Monday, Dec. 20, 1999, Los Angeles Times; 

Document latm000020010828dvcl02d48




 TIP SHEET: Wright Major's Mehta Uses Techs To Cut Risk 

 By Zahida Hafeez 
963 words
21 December 1999
20:00
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Who ever thought that one day investors would turn to the technology sector to minimize risk in their portfolios? 

 But Jatin Mehta, lead portfolio manager and executive vice president at Wright Investor's Service and part of a team that manages the $140 million Wright Major Blue Chip Equities fund, has worked the techs and used his predilection for well-known companies with good earnings growth to his advantage. 

 Techs reign in Wright Major Blue Chip's diversified portfolio of large-cap companies. The sector is the largest of the fund's total holdings, which run the gamut from health care, basic materials, capital goods, consumer cyclicals to energy and oil-services industries. Mehta said that the fund is a "risk-averse" value fund. 

 "We feel that technology is the biggest play in the market at present, and that technology will play an important role in carrying the economy forward," Mehta said, adding, "The techs in the U.S. have been able to keep costs down" and stay competitive in the global market. 

 The success at responding well to global trends shows that U.S. technology companies are likely to dominate in the long term, Mehta said. 

 His bullish outlook for the sector is reflected in an increase in the weighting of technology companies to 27% currently from 10% a year ago. 

 Mehta has achieved a heavier weighting in technology companies at the expense of utility and consumer cyclical companies in the past year - a move in line with his predictions for a strong but less robust economy, still driven by technology. 

 "We don't see a recession yet, but economic growth would be somewhat less than this year. Inflation would remain in check and the profits should continue to be decent." 

 Of the companies Mehta shed from his portfolio in recent months include Dana Corp. (DCN) in the consumer cyclicals sector. "It was a top-down decision where we wanted to reduce our exposure to the auto sector. Otherwise the company's earnings, valuations and its past operating record all looked good." 

 Hasbro Inc. (HAS) was another stock that was dropped recently. "Our concern here was mainly some uncertainty about its overall prospects." Mehta said the toy maker's "projected earnings did not look sufficient for us to hang on to the stock." 

 Generally speaking, Mehta said he and his partners favor "well-accepted companies with good forecasts and earnings growth and valuations that are comparable to their peer group." 

 In the technology sector, Mehta has holdings in both software and hardware companies, including Sun Microsystems Inc. (SUNW), International Business Machines Corp. (IBM), Oracle Corp. (ORCL), Intel Corp. (INTC) and Microsoft Corp. (MSFT). 

 To be included in the fund, the companies have to adhere to certain standards of balance sheet dynamics, profitability and sales and earnings growth. The companies should also have a reasonable valuation and a strong operating history. 

 Mehta and his colleagues then follow this bottom-up approach with a top-down approach - making judgments on which sectors look good within the context of the economic outlook for the next two to five years. 

 For example, Mehta said that earlier the earnings outlook for Xerox Corp. (XRX) did not justify its valuation. "In retrospect, we are fortunate to have avoided Xerox," he said. In early December Xerox shocked Wall Street by issuing a warning that its fourth-quarter profit would fall far short of expectations. The company, which could very well have entered Mehta's portfolio had it not been for its earlier valuation, cited a host of problems including corporations putting off technology spending because of worries about year 2000 glitches, turmoil in Brazil and a poorly executed reorganization of its sales force. 

 In selecting companies for his portfolio, Mehta also pays close attention to the company's debt structure and whether the company is earning enough to repay its debt. 

 Usually companies that have 50% or higher debt as percentage of total capital are excluded from the portfolio. Most of the technology companies in the portfolio either have minimal debt or are completely debt free, such as Microsoft. 

 The Wright Major Blue Chip has returned 18.9% year-to-date as of Nov. 30. Wright Major Blue Chip fund's managers measure its success against the benchmark S&P 500 Index, whose performance the fund has to match, if not outdo, Mehta said. 

 Consistency in rates of returns for the fund does not, however, mean absolute consistency in the character of the fund. Some reshuffling occurs - usually resulting in an annual turnover rate of between 30% and 50%, but not more than 50%, Mehta said. 

 "We regularly ask: Are we overexposed in this sector, are we underexposed in that sector?" Mehta said. 

 Sometimes consolidation can be grounds for either exclusion and inclusion in the fund, Mehta said. 

 Mehta and his partners recently added Citigroup Inc. (C) after the financial giant was past its merger-related uncertainties. He also has holdings in Pfizer Inc. (PFE) because he is reasonably certain that its merger with Warner-Lambert Co. (WLA) will proceed and because "Pfizer is one of the leading companies in the health-care sector, and we think that its earnings will be quite good next year." 

 And at 32 3/4, Pfizer trades at about 33 times its forward earnings, Mehta said. 


And while Mehta passed up soft-drink maker Coca-Cola Co. (KO) earlier
because of its high valuations, he bought the stock later, believing the
company is recovering from its health scare in Europe and is poised to
do well, especially with the ushering in of its new management team.
  - Zahida Hafeez; Dow Jones Newswires; 210-938-5176


Document dj00000020010827dvcl07srb




 Barron's Online -- Unhealthy Signs: Nasdaq stocks may be vulnerable 

 By John Murphy 
654 words
20 December 1999
Barron's
B
45
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Technology stocks have been on a tear since October: The surging Nasdaq market has defied expectations of a pullback and, like the Energizer bunny, has just kept going and going and . . . 

 Even so, sometimes too much is too much. The Nasdaq 100 has risen a considerable distance above its moving average, a key technical indicator that tracks the average closing price of a stock over certain periods of time. 

 Short-term indicators also show some loss of upside momentum over the past two weeks -- another warning that the Nasdaq may be vulnerable to some profit-taking at current prices. 

 Also, the Nasdaq's advance has yet to be confirmed by any of the other major stock indexes -- including the Dow Jones Industrial Average. The chart shows that the Dow is still below its August peak near 11,400. (Some other major stock-market benchmarks that remain below their summer highs are the New York Stock Exchange Composite and the S&P 500.) 

 That divergence points out the narrowness of the Nasdaq's advance and suggests that, sooner or later, the rest of the market has to catch up or the Nasdaq has to give back some ground -- or both -- to reduce the huge gap. 

 Market breadth figures further illustrate the narrowness of the recent advance: The NYSE advance-decline line has fallen to a three-year low, and the number of NYSE stocks hitting 52-week lows exceeded new highs on Tuesday by a 10-to-1 margin. That's not a healthy sign, if it continues. 

 An even more disturbing divergence has developed between the Dow Industrials and the Dow Jones Utilities Average, which has plunged to its lowest level in over a year. That raises two red flags. First, the Utilities usually peak well before the rest of the market does. Second, there has been a close historic link between the direction of rate-sensitive utility stocks and Treasury-bond prices. Hence, the breakdown in the Utilities may foreshadow higher interest rates ahead. 

 The two most widely followed futures markets -- for Treasury bonds and eurodollars -- are flashing similar signals. The March eurodollar futures contract (which tracks short-term interest rates) has been consolidating since its August bottom. This suggests that eurodollars eventually will resume a major downtrend that has lasted for most of 1999. And since futures prices move in the opposite direction of interest rates, lower eurodollar prices would imply higher short-term interest rates. 

 So, what's the good news? Some money coming out of the lagging consumer group has moved into cyclical stocks. This economically sensitive sector began to rebound again in the past month, after having fallen out of favor since the spring. 

 The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index has climbed above its 10-week moving average for the first time since July, indicating that short-term momentum is improving. That, in turn, suggests that aluminum, copper, chemicals and paper stocks may do better in the weeks ahead. These stocks may also benefit from the January Effect, as money managers tend to bottom-fish large value stocks around the new year. 

 In conclusion, the spectacular surge by Nasdaq stocks has masked the weakness in the rest of the equities market. And while Internet stocks have kept the Nasdaq rally going far beyond normal expectations, the Nasdaq may finally have reached overbought levels that leave it ripe for profit-taking. (Last week's downturn in a recent pacesetter -- semiconductor stocks -- also may indicate that investors are cashing in some chips.) 

 But although the threat of rising interest rates has hurt some sectors of the market -- including consumer, financial and utility stocks -- cyclicals may benefit from the upward move in interest rates resulting from a strong economy. 

 GETTING TECHNICAL appears twice monthly in Barron's Online. John Murphy's commentary also is available at www.murphymorris.com. 

Document b000000020010825dvck000s6




 Ronson Corporation Issues Post Meeting Report Re 1999 Annual Stockholders Meeting 

2,803 words
20 December 1999
20:18
PR Newswire
PRN
English
(c) 1999 PR Newswire


SOMERSET, N.J., Dec. 20 /PRNewswire/ -- Ronson Corporation (Nasdaq: RONC;
OTC Bulletin Board: RONCP). Attached is a copy of the Company's Post Meeting
Report on the 1999 Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on December 7, 1999,
containing the shareholder vote; the President's remarks to shareholders; and
discussions following the President's remarks.
                            RONSON CORPORATION
         POST MEETING REPORT 1999 ANNUAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS
                                                           December 14, 1999
  TO THE SHAREHOLDERS:
  The 1999 Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Ronson Corporation was held at
  the Quality Inn, Somerset, New Jersey on December 7, 1999.
  This Post Meeting Report on the 1999 Annual Meeting contains the
  Shareholder Vote; the President's Remarks to Shareholders; and Discussions
  Following the President's Remarks.



                                                                  Sincerely,
                                                         Louis V. Aronson II
                                                           President and CEO
  I.    SHAREHOLDER VOTE (1999 ANNUAL MEETING)
  Directors:  Ronson shareholders elected management's slate of two
  directors without opposition. Each member of management's slate was
  elected by approximately 86% of the votes cast at the Meeting.  Louis V.
  Aronson II and I. Leo Motiuk were elected for three year terms.
  Auditors:  The appointment of Demetrius & Company, L.L.C., as Independent
  Auditors for 1999 was approved by approximately 87% of the votes cast.
  II.  REMARKS BY LOUIS V. ARONSON II AT THE DECEMBER 7, 1999 ANNUAL MEETING
  In 1998, and particularly this year, the Company has made considerable
  progress towards reaching a satisfactory conclusion of the costly and time
  consuming Prometcor environmental clearance matter.
  While making this progress in the third quarter 1999, removal was required
  of more contaminated soil than previously estimated by our environmental
  consultants. On the positive side, this removal was significant because it
  resolved a substantial uncertainty as to the volume of contaminated
  material under the ground-level concrete floors of the buildings. This had
  been difficult to estimate prior to the demolition of the buildings and
  the removal of the concrete floors. As a result of the unanticipated
  increased disposal costs, the Company took an additional accrual resulting
  in a loss from Prometcor's discontinued operations in the third quarter of
  1999 of $125,000, net of $65,000 of deferred income tax benefits.
  1998 EARNINGS REVIEW
  Ronson Corporation's 1998 earnings from continuing operations before
  interest and other items increased by 15% to $1,350,000. Earnings from
  continuing operations, after interest, taxes and other items, were
  $660,000, net of non-recurring costs of $245,000.
  Notwithstanding, the loss from Prometcor's discontinued operations of
  $949,000 caused a net loss in 1998 of $289,000. The discontinued
  operations' loss was due to a sizeable accrual of about $1,500,000 before
  taxes in the fourth quarter of 1998 of additional costs and expenses
  projected for Prometcor to complete compliance with federal and state
  environmental requirements.
  THIRD QUARTER 1999 REVIEW
  The Company's third quarter 1999 net sales and earnings from operations
  were adversely affected by unexpected sales returns, lost sales, and costs
  related to a voluntary short-term withdrawal of Ronson Canada's Varaflame
  ignitor utility lighter from the Canadian market. In July, Health Canada,
  the Health Protection Branch of the Canadian government, issued a
  preliminary safety notice to Canadian distributors and retailers about
  certain utility lighters manufactured by various Far Eastern suppliers
  prior to its issuance of a public warning to Canadian consumers. Ronson
  Canada's utility lighter was one of seventeen lighters named by Health
  Canada. We have cooperated fully with Health Canada. As a result of
  complying with Health Canada's request, the third quarter's operating
  earnings were reduced by about $115,000, excluding the effect of lost
  sales during the third quarter. I am pleased to report that shipments of
  our Varaflame ignitors have recently resumed in the Canadian market.  The
  USA market was not affected.
  Operating earnings in the nine months of 1999 decreased to $918,000 from
  $1,058,000, with most of the decrease due to the short-term withdrawal of
  the ignitor from the Canadian market described above. After income taxes
  and interest, earnings from continuing operations in the nine months of
  1999 were $211,000 as compared to $605,000. The earnings from continuing
  operations in the nine months of 1999 included an increase of $174,000 in
  deferred income tax expenses.
  RONSON CONSUMER PRODUCTS CORPORATION
  Ronson Consumer Products Corporation (RCPC) continues to make substantial
  contributions to the Company's operating profits.
  Less informed persons have referred to Ronson's lighters as being a mature
  market. This is not accurate. The lighter market of today vastly differs
  from the makeup of the market that existed 15 or more years ago. The
  traditional lighter market is virtually as extinct as dinosaurs. The
  current USA market is composed primarily of disposable lighters. Just as
  matches were in the past, these are used for many purposes other than
  their association with tobacco products. The disposable lighter market in
  the USA is huge, about 500 million units per year are sold.
  Our lighter sales strategy for this large market is working.  We have
  moved away from the diminishing high priced market which existed years
  ago. We are focusing on lighters selling at a lower price, but which meet
  our high quality standards. These lighters are not disposable but are
  refillable and use Ronson fuel and flints.  We are as interested in
  selling our lighter accessories as razor companies are interested in
  selling their blades.
  To compete in this sizeable market, we must have a product that is priced
  in line with the leading brands of disposables. Our Ronii refillable
  butane lighter meets this challenge. The Ronii is priced to compete with
  brand name disposable lighters. Presently, our annual sales percentage of
  this market is small, but growing. The current penetration gives us much
  room to grow, and we will. In the first eleven months of 1999, Ronii sales
  have exceeded 1998's twelve month yearly total Ronii sales by 35%. We
  expect this trend to continue and remember, the Ronii uses Ronson's
  Multi-Fill butane fuel and Ronson flints.
  Sales of the Ronson Windii windproof lighter, fueled by Ronsonol and
  sparked with a Ronson flint, are higher this year. Windii sales are also
  up in the first eleven months of this year by 104% over the twelve month
  yearly total Windii sales in 1998. We are making inroads against our
  competition with the quality and price-competitive lighters.
  NEW ArTek PRODUCTS
  While we continue to focus on the important Ronson brand name, we have
  developed a new "brand" for lighter and flame accessories in order to
  permit us to obtain new export sales into overseas markets. The new brand,
  which has the registered trademark name "ArTek", utilizes our
  manufacturing and marketing capabilities and will move us during the year
  2000 into overseas markets currently not available to us.
  Here is the ArTek product line and some preliminary promotional sales
  literature.  We have ArTek butane gas, ArTek lighter fuel and ArTek
  flints.  The utility lighter will be sold overseas under the name ArTek.
  The ArTek products will fit in with our manufacturing facilities.
  NEW CONSUMER PRODUCTS
  Just recently we introduced the Euro Lite, a new flameless butane lighter.
  The Euro Lite, with its "blue point flame" is a windproof, refillable
  butane lighter which is great for pipes and cigars. It is available in two
  appealing finishes and is packaged in an attractive gift box. The
  suggested retail price of the Euro Lite is $19.95. In July 1999 we offered
  to our shareholders this new product. The offering had a good response.
  About 6% of shareholders purchased the Euro Lite at a special offering
  price, a response that is higher than the normal return on most mail
  offers. Here is the new attractive Euro Lite display which exhibits twelve
  Euro Lites in gift boxes.
  There are other exciting new consumer products coming to market within a
  year. Here is one, a prototype of a utility torch fueled by Ronson
  Multi-Fill butane. When available later next year, the kit for the utility
  torch will include the 24 gram Ronson Multi-Fill and extra soldering tips.
  Designed by Ronson, the torch is attractive and very utilitarian. Many
  homes will have good uses for it. Uppermost, what we like is that the
  utility torch uses the widely distributed Ronson Multi-Fill butane fuel.
  NEW RONSON WEBSITE
  I am pleased to advise that starting this week, Ronson is selling on the
  Ronson web store at www.ronsonstore.com. Initially we are offering only a
  special selection of Ronson products on the web. This includes the new
  Euro Lite flameless butane lighter; the Elite pattern windproof Windii;
  the Varaflame ignitor; GlossTek, a surface protectant; Multi-Lube, a
  penetrating multi-use spray; and Kleenol, an all purpose spot remover.
  Later there will be additional products for sale on the Ronson website.
  The Ronson website covers all of the United States except for Alaska and
  Hawaii.
  RONSON AVIATION, INC.
  Ronson Aviation in 1998 and 1999 continued its turnaround started in the
  last quarter of 1997. In the third quarter of 1999, net sales at Ronson
  Aviation were 27% higher primarily because of an improvement in aircraft
  sales. On the basis of orders on hand, this trend is expected to continue.
  Sales of other profit centers are ahead, such as charter service, space
  rentals and
fuel sales.
  The Citation II jet which we added to RAI's operations in 1998, is, in
  part, responsible for the increase in charter services. In addition,
  Ronson Aviation's maintenance department has benefited by its ability to
  offer jet maintenance services.
  Ronson Aviation constructed a new $430,000 state-of-the-art fuel farm
  consisting of 50,000 gallons of jet-A fuel and 8,000 gallons of avgas. The
  fuel farm meets mandatory requirements of the NJDEP and the Federal
  Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). These add to a more efficient
  fueling operation as we fill customers' needs.
  PROMETCOR
  In the third quarter of 1999, Prometcor made considerable progress toward
  completion of its environmental cleanup and the sale of the property.  One
  of the original three Prometcor parcels was sold for $100,000 in August
  1999. The remaining two parcels are under contract for sale for about
  $450,000. Prometcor also completed excavation of contaminated material in
  one of the two remaining parcels of the property.
  LONG RANGE STRATEGIC PLAN
  Ronson Corporation is on sound footing for long term profit and growth in
  accordance with its long range strategic plan. This belief is enhanced now
  that the Company appears close to the conclusion of the costly and time
  consuming environmental cleanup over the past nine years. The elimination
  of these costs will free substantial cash flow to be used to maximize
  value for all of Ronson's stockholders.
  All parts of our long range plan are important, including the Company's
  primary strengths/competitive advantages in consumer products, which are:
    a)  The renown and highly regarded Ronson brand and tradename;
    b)  The Company's dominant market share and large profit margins of
        lighter accessories - fuels and flints;
    c)  Automated manufacturing facility with capacity to increase
        package goods production by more than 100%; and
    d)  Broad distribution of the Company's consumer products into
        major drug chains, mass merchandisers, convenience store
        chains, candy and tobacco and other retail outlets.
  In view of the expected continuing improvement in Ronson Aviation's sales
  and profits, we plan to explore the fit of Ronson Aviation into the
  Company's overall business. This is not the first time we have explored
  this matter. In 1994, we also explored the fit of Ronson Aviation.
  We are completing the environmental clearance with the Nuclear Regulatory
  Commission (NRC) and the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection
  (NJDEP) of the Prometcor properties in Newark, NJ, and the sale of the
  remaining properties. Prometcor has been utilizing qualified consultants
  and environmental counsel in the completion of the Prometcor environmental
  project. Notwithstanding, the groundwater issue with the NJDEP is likely
  to continue for several years, but at a much lower cost. I am pleased to
  say that the environmental clearance by the NRC and the NJDEP and property
  sale is expected to be completed in the foreseeable future.
  Of great importance, the Company is pursuing insurance recovery for
  Prometcor's sizeable costs related to groundwater. The insurance recovery
  has recently been undertaken on a contingency basis by a law firm
  experienced in such matters. The arrangement assures us that substantial
  costs will not be incurred by Ronson.
  Ronson's plans are in effect and working.  As with all long range
  strategic plans, they are under constant review as relevant circumstances
  and expectations determine.
  I would like to respond further to recent inflammatory and repetitious
  statements in a letter to me from Mr. Warren G. Lichtenstein, Managing
  General Partner of Steel Partners II L.P., a large shareholder. Mr.
  Lichtenstein stated that the Ronson Board of Directors does not take
  seriously its fiduciary responsibilities. I would like you to know that
  there is absolutely no basis for any such charge.  Ronson's Board takes
  its fiduciary responsibilities very seriously. The Board and its
  committees hold regular meetings and discuss at length the Company's
  operations, plans, results and projections. All directors contribute in
  various ways based on their background and experience.
  In his recent letter, Mr. Lichtenstein also raised a question about the
  independence of the Board. I would like you to know that each Ronson
  director exercises his own independent judgment. Each has utilized his
  experience and business knowledge to make important contributions to the
  Company in various ways. Most also serve on committees of the Board.
  III. DISCUSSION FOLLOWING PRESIDENT'S REMARKS
  Mr. Warren Lichtenstein, who controls Steel Partners, was not present at
  the Annual Meeting; however, present at the Annual Meeting was a
  representative of Steel Partners. The representative asked several
  questions. These are summarized below:
   Mr. Dinger: In response to a question regarding the Company's plans
   related to the agreement with Mr. Dinger when it expires in the spring of
   2000, Mr. Aronson stated that the relationship with Mr. Dinger has been
   constructive. Mr. Dinger has been making a contribution as an active
   management consultant. We have not reached the point of time to determine
   the steps to be taken upon the expiration of the agreement.
   Prometcor, Inc.: In response to questions about the costs, past and
   future cash requirements of the cleanup, and Prometcor property sales,
   Mr. Aronson repeated his earlier comments about Prometcor, a discontinued
   operation. He reiterated that the Company was required to take an
   additional accrual in the third quarter of 1999.  We believe the accrual
   will suffice, but we cannot be certain at this time. Progress has been
   made, and we do see an end except for the groundwater problem which will
   probably go on for a number of years.
   Mr. Aronson confirmed that over $5.7 million had been accrued through
   1998 for the Prometcor environmental cleanup. As a result of the
   additional third quarter 1999 accrual, the balance of accrued costs on
   September 30, 1999 was about $1,000,000. The Prometcor environmental
   problem has caused the Company to spend about $5 million in cash over the
   last nine years.
   Mr. Aronson also confirmed that one of the Prometcor properties was sold
   in 1999, and the proceeds from the sale have been received. The other two
   properties are presently under a sale contract. The exact date that the
   sale will be finalized is unknown because of required clearance from the
   NRC and NJDEP. Mr. Aronson stated that the buildings on the properties
   were demolished in 1999. The book value of the properties is about
   $300,000.
   After sale of the buildings, the only remaining liability for the
   Prometcor cleanup will be related to groundwater. Mr. Aronson repeated
   that the Company is pursuing insurance recovery of costs primarily
   related to groundwater already incurred and those going forward. He noted
   that the largest part of the total cost incurred relates to radiological
   cleanup rather than groundwater.
   ArTek: In response to a question, Mr. Aronson stated that the Company has
   been working on the ArTek brand and trademark for over a year. The ArTek
   product line has now been developed. We intend to implement our marketing
   plans over the course of the next year and sales are expected to commence
   in the second half.  From our successful experience in building the
   renown brand "Ronson", we know how to build the recognition and
   acceptance of ArTek as a new brand. While overseas channels of
   distribution differ, we are fully capable of adapting. The first public
   announcement of ArTek is being made at this Meeting. Further details will
   be announced at a later date.


Document prn0000020010829dvck04fim




 Wall Street seen mixed, Monsanto in focus.  

293 words
20 December 1999
12:08
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited 

 LONDON, Dec 20 (Reuters) - Wall Street was seen opening mixed on Monday with the urge to take profits in the run up to Tuesday's Federal Reserve rate meeting likely to keep the Dow in check, London dealers said.  

 The Globex-traded March future on the S&P was at 1,441.5 by 1143 GMT, some points higher than its estimated fair value of 1,438.57, indcating that, if anything, the benchmark Dow Jones index would open with a small gain.  

 However the Nasdaq future was 18 points lower, indicating a rough ride for technology stocks.  

 Both the Nasdaq and the Dow touched record levels on Friday, but only the Nasdaq managed to convert its intra-day highs into a record close.  

 Meanwhile, turning to individual stocks, dealers said Monsanto was likely to be in the spotlight after the drugs firm ended months of speculation at the weekend by announcing that it would merge with U.S.-Swedish drugs group Pharmacia & Upjohn Inc  to form a drugs group with a market capitalisation of more than $50 billion.  

 However dealers said Monsanto shares were untraded in London.  

 Elsewhere, dealers noted an after-hours profit warning on Friday from fruit and vegetable producer Dole Food Co . Dole blamed a range of factors from banana oversupply in Europe to lower-than-expected lettuce commodity prices for the expected shortfall in profits.  

 However, Dole shares remained unchanged in UK trade.  

 Elsewhere, dealers said there was no activity of note on what is the final trading day allowing settlement before the Christmas break.  

 ((Ed Cropley, London newsroom +44 171 542 5106, fax +44 171 542 2120, edward.cropley@reuters.com)).  

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999.  

Document lba0000020010908dvck07wa0




EDITORIAL
FRIGHTENING NEW EVIDENCE  

414 words
19 December 1999
St. Louis Post-Dispatch
SLMO
EDITION: FIVE STAR LIFT
PAGE: B2
English
Copyright 1999, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.  

GLOBAL WARMING  

EARLIER this month, Ford Motor Co. became the largest in a trickle of corporations to abandon the Global Climate Coalition, a business lobbying group that spends millions delivering the "it's not real" message denying global warming to the public and members of Congress. The group's goal is preventing legislation that would force corporations to find ways to curb carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions. That, after all, might cut into profits.  

Following Shell Oil, United Technologies and British Petroleum, Ford chairman Bill Ford Jr. courageously did an environmental about-face. What awakened Mr. Ford is new scientific evidence that the polar ice cap is not only melting, but melting at a speed and in ways that are more urgent than previously believed. There is also a newly discovered consistency to the warming trend, as opposed to random warming, which has brought the vast majority of scientists into the global warming camp.  

While scientists have known for some time that the ice cap has been shrinking in volume, or roughly "width," new studies reported in Science magazine show the ice is also shrinking in "depth," and at a rate five times faster than the overall shrinkage. Scientists now calculate the arctic ice has lost 40 percent of its volume in less than three decades. In other words, if the trend continues, there will be dramatic, unpredictable, worldwide climate changes in a matter of decades rather than centuries.  

The "so-what?" crowd ignores, at our peril, the significance of the "  

depth" discovery: that the white ice cap functions as a reflector of the sun's heat. If the ice melts entirely, instead of reflecting heat, the darker ocean will absorb it. Water temperature will climb. It will be beyond our capability to refreeze it. An updated climate map accessible on the Internet at  www.climatehotmap.org tells the global warming story in terms we can all understand: Storms and floods, spreading disease, droughts and fires, vanishing forests and animals.  

If Congress, corporations -- especially auto companies -- and ordinary citizens continue to naysay the warming warning, it now seems certain we will pay for it with far more than reduced profit margins and protracted azalea bloom.  

Emissions of carbon dioxide and other gases from the burning of fossil fuels must be reduced. Ways to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere must be explored. If Mr. Ford can turn his back on his industry and embrace the cause, anyone can.  

Document SLMO000020040605dvcj00qh3


 INDUSTRY NEWS: Waste Management Names CEO. 

505 words
19 December 1999
Waste Treatment Technology News
WTNW
ISSN 0885-0003; Volume 15; Issue 4
English
Copyright 1999 Gale Group Inc. All rights reserved.

 Waste Management, Inc. (WMI, 1001 Fannin St., No. 4000, Houston, TX 77002-6711; Tel: 713/512-6200), the largest U.S. trash hauler, has appointed a veteran of two successful corporate turnarounds to lead the company out of a tangle of financial and operational problems. 

 It also reported a net loss for the third quarter of $948 million ($1.53 per share) after taking special charges of $1.23 billion in an attempt to put its accounts in order and reduce valuations of some of its assets to more realistic levels. 

 Maurice Myers will take over as chairman, chief executive officer, and president, arriving from Kansas-based trucking firm Yellow Corp., which he restored to profitability in 1997. 

 WMI says special charges in the third quarter covered write-downs on assets it plans to sell and on some of its landfill sites, accounting errors caused by merger integration problems, and increased provisions for bad debts from customers. The company had already warned investors last month that a major review of its accounts would result in a "material unfavorable impact" on third quarter earnings. 

 Revenues for the latest quarter rose to $3.39 billion from $3.24 billion in the third quarter of 1998 when it posted an even bigger loss of $1.26 billion ($2.11 per share). 

 The company had been seeking a chief executive officer since August, when incumbent CEO John Drury and COO Rodney Proto were ousted. Their departures coincided with news that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission was looking into sales of stock by company insiders before the first profit warning on July 6th. 

 Before arriving at Yellow Corp., Myers was president and chief operating officer of America West Airlines Inc., joining the financially troubled company in 1993 and helping it to emerge from bankruptcy protection the following year. 

 Separately, WMI announced that it has agreed to sell solid-waste operations in 11 states to its rival, Allied Waste Industries Inc. (15880 N. Greenway Hayden Loop., No 100, Scottsdale, AZ 85260; Tel: 602/423- 2946), for an undisclosed price. 

 The assets, which include collection routes, nine landfills, and five transfer stations, are in Alabama, Arizona, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Ohio, South Carolina, and Wyoming. 

 Allied, which bought Browning-Ferris Industries Inc. (BFI, 757 N. Eldridge Pkwy. Houston, TX 77079; Tel: 713/870-8100) in August for $9.4 billion, also revised its agreement to sell BFI's Canadian operations to Waste Management. The terms weren't disclosed. Waste Management says in May it will pay $501 million in cash. 

 Waste Management says in August it will sell assets and use the proceeds to reduce debt, buy back shares, and make acquisitions. Its shares have fallen 66% since July 6th, when it issued the first of four profit warnings. 

FULL TEXT Business Communications Company, Inc. THIS IS THE FULL TEXT: COPYRIGHT 1999 Business Communications Company, Inc. Subscription: $375.00 per year. Published monthly. 25 Van Zant St, Suite 13, Norwalk, CT 06855.

Document wtnw000020010830dvcj000ae


 Canadian Web Site Vexes Buffalo, N.Y., Local TV Stations 

 Fred O. Williams 
679 words
18 December 1999
KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Buffalo News - New York
KRTBN
English
Copyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)

 Buffalo television stations and the National Football League are threatening to sue a Canada-based Internet site for putting their programming on the World Wide Web. 

 A Toronto company called iCraveTV.com carries programming from seven Buffalo TV stations, including NFL football games, on its site without authorization. 

 Only Canadians are supposed to view the Webcasts, but anyone can log in at www.icravetv.com, claim to be in Canada and -- if their equipment is up-to-date -- watch TV in a window on a computer screen. 

 WIVB Station Manager Lou Verruto was able to see his broadcast on the site, and he wasn't happy. 

 "I think it's outrageous. It's thievery, pure and simple," he said. 

 iCrave's controversial move puts the Buffalo stations in the front lines of a looming contest over the right to carry TV signals on the Internet. If allowed to continue, rebroadcasters such as iCrave threaten to rock lucrative network broadcast rights and other arrangements, such as the National Football League's regional blackout policy. 

 The unauthorized Webcast "is the first and only time" professional football has faced the issue, NFL spokesman Brian McCarthy said. "Unfortunately, we feel it may be the tip of the iceberg." 

 But while big-league sports and the movie industry cry piracy, Internet companies fear being locked out of TV rights that their cable industry competitors already have. Internet companies sought to reserve future rebroadcast rights during the last session of Congress. 

 The NFL sent a warning letter to iCraveTV, saying the rebroadcast of Buffalo affiliates of CBS, ABC and Fox violates copyright law. Profit-motivated violations carry maximum damages of $100,000 per game, according to the NFL's letter. 

 The Toronto company responded that it isn't breaking U.S. or Canadian law, McCarthy said. 

 iCraveTV.com President William Craig could not be reached to comment. 

 Before seeing the broadcast, viewers must certify they're watching from Canada. But the requirement isn't hard to circumvent. 

 "All it does is ask you for an area code," McCarthy said. "I'm not much of a computer hacker, but I took a shot and punched in 416, and I got in." 

 Viewers see one of 17 television stations in a window wrapped with advertisements. The stations are all those that can be seen over the air in Toronto, according to iCrave. 

 "At work you can watch soaps, sports or news programs in a small picture-in-picture during your lunch break," the company's Web site suggests. "At home you can watch telecasts while e-mailing friends or surfing on the Web." 

 Not so fast, station managers said. 

 "They're wrapping commercial advertising around our programming," said Dick Daley, senior vice president of public broadcaster WNED. "We couldn't put our programming on the Internet, so how can they?" 

 The developers of programming set limits on how it can be used and charge accordingly, he said.. 

 "I'm not against technology, but I think it's infringing on our copyrights," said WKBW-TV General Manager Bill Ransom. The station provides its own Webcasts of its news programming, he said. 

 Lawyers for station owner Granite Broadcasting Corp. are looking into iCrave's actions. 

 Likewise, Gannett Co.'s legal department is looking at the retransmission of WGRZ-TV, General Manager Darryll Green said. "Any time you see your signal being used without your permission, I think there's some concern," he said. 

 Unlike cable and satellite transmission, the Web isn't designed to restrict access to certain markets, upsetting long-standing commercial relationships, critics of iCrave said. For example, the unrestricted Webcast undermines the NFL's regional blackout agreements, McCarthy said. If a Bills-Raiders game was blacked out in Oakland because of unsold tickets there, Oakland viewers could tune in anyway through iCraveTV. 

 "We have no interest in negotiating with Internet programmers" for retransmission rights, McCarthy said. "We have to protect our NFL networks who pay the NFL billions of dollars" for broadcast rights. 

Document krtbn00020010828dvci0260a




 Business; Financial Desk 
 BRIEFLY / FINANCIAL SERVICES Dun & Bradstreet Plans to Spin Off Moody's 

Reuters
271 words
16 December 1999
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-4
English
 Copyright 1999 / The Times Mirror Company 

 Dun & Bradstreet Corp. said it will spin off its highly profitable bond-rating unit, Moody's Investors Service, in an attempt to boost value for holders of its flagging shares. The company did not give details, but is likely to allocate shares in a new publicly traded Moody's company to existing shareholders of Dun & Bradstreet Corp. in the hope of reaping a better market valuation for the fast-growing unit. The news sent Dun & Bradstreet shares up $2.69 to close at $29.75 on the New York Stock Exchange. The shares had plunged to around $25 in August after a profitwarning on sluggish U.S. sales. The company's profit fell in the third quarter, dragged down by its publishing operations. Henry Berghoef, senior analyst at Harris Investments, Dun & Bradstreet's largest shareholder with a stake of more than 12%, said the plan is a positive move, but he wants to see more details. 

  "One major issue that needs to be resolved is the leadership for both units, in particular the D&B operating unit," he said. D&B is looking for a new permanent chief executive after Volney Taylor resigned in October. Berghoef and other shareholders protested Dun & Bradstreet's poor performance this summer, advocating a complete sale of the company. Dun & Bradstreet hired investment bank Goldman Sachs to analyze and develop a structure for the transaction, which is subject to favorable tax rulings from the Internal Revenue Service and final board approval. 

Document latm000020010828dvcg02bst




BUSINESS
BANK TO CLOSE 32 MONEY STORES; FIRST UNION: MOVE AIMED AT HELPING MEET 2000 GOALS

Joe Bel Bruno, Bridge News   
817 words
15 December 1999
Charlotte Observer (NC)
CLTO
ONE-THREE
1D
English
Copyright 1999 The Charlotte Observer. All rights reserved.   

First Union Corp. said Tuesday it will close 32 branches of its Money Store unit in a move designed to cut costs and help the company meet financial goals in 2000.

The Charlotte-based bank said it would also consolidate loan-processing agents into two centers based in California and New Jersey. The changes, phased in through next year, will affect some 285 positions nationwide, a spokesman said.

The cutbacks come as First Union puts its fiscal house in order after telling Wall Street twice this year it would not meet analysts' earnings forecasts, a series of steps that dragged down shares of the nation's sixth-largest bank. Executives at the bank pinned shortfalls on lower-than-expected revenues after the acquisition of Sacramento, Calif.-based Money Store and its $18 billion takeover of CoreStates Financial Corp.

First Union stock closed unchanged at $34.93 3/4.

First Union was identified Tuesday among 15 companies that may be targeted by the California Public Employees' Retirement System, or Calpers, in its annual drive to push companies in its portfolio to boost their lagging stock price.

For each of the past 12 years, Calpers, the nation's largest public pension fund, has singled out about 10 U.S. companies of the 1,600 it owns to change their boards of directors to boost share performance. The $155 billion pension fund's board has yet to approve the final list of targets. The preliminary list was released because of a clerical error. "It is a staff report of their early discussions" of candidates, said Patricia Macht, a spokeswoman.

Still, Calpers has filed shareholder proposals seeking changes at some of the companies, such as First Union. Calpers wants the bank's chairman be an independent director. Ed Crutchfield, the bank's chief executive, currently serves as chairman of the board. First Union's shares have tumbled 40.8 percent so far this year.

In announcing the Money Store moves Tuesday, First Union spokesman Tony Hoppa said, "This is not an expense-driven decision; we're doing this as a way to keep the sites where we can deliver the most value, maintain the highest quality, and achieve whatever efficiencies there are by nature of reducing duplication. It will help us meet our 2000 goals."

First Union acquired The Money Store in a $2.1 billion deal in 1998 but watched as the subprime industry was slammed as customers cashed in on loans to take advantage of falling interest rates, thereby drying up revenues. In reaction, First Union laid off 14 percent of the unit's work force and decided against plans to expand a new headquarters in California.

The problems with subprime lenders, which lend to customers not considered to be top-tier borrowers, have affected other companies in the industry. As customers paid off loans quicker than lenders anticipated, revenue sources dried up for such companies as The Money Store and Countrywide Home Loans.

Hoppa emphasized that the Money Store move is linked primarily to reaching sales goals for 2000, not in cutting costs.

"This isn't expense driven," he said. "We want to reconfigure the existing branch structure, redefine and re-engineer the branch model, as a way to realign resources geographically to achieve higher loan volume next year."

The plan calls for closing 16 branches nationally within the next 60 days, including locations in California, Washington, Nevada, Idaho, Illinois, Kansas, Ohio, Mississippi, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Virginia, New York, New Hampshire and Rhode Island. An additional 16 will be closed sometime in the first quarter, Hoppa said.

The final phase of the reconfiguration will turn 39 branches that handle mostly loan processing into sale centers. All loan-processing will then be handled out of the national centers in New Jersey and Sacramento, he said.

As for layoffs, Hoppa said the company would attempt to keep workers within First Union and offer placement help before handing out pink slips.

First Union warned in January that its earnings this year would fall short of projections as it abandoned the use of gain-on-sale accounting related to its sale of asset-backed securities, while revenues from retail banking and investment banking initiatives fell short.

A month later, First Union announced plans to slash 5,800 jobs in an effort to compensate for lower-than-expected revenues due to the acquisitions.

Finally, in March bank executives warned that revenues would fall short because of the job cuts, which had prompted many dissatisfied customers to close their accounts.

There had been some market speculation that First Union's board of directors was meeting Tuesday afternoon regarding what could quite possibly become a fourth profit warning.

However, most analysts dismissed such an announcement and a First Union spokesman declined to comment.

Document CLTO000020090630dvcf003ud




BIZ
BRIEFING

1,168 words
14 December 1999
The Denver Post
DNVR
TUE
C-02
English
Copyright © 1999 The Denver Post Corp. Distributed by NewsBank, Inc.   

Local

LIBERTY MEDIA TO ACQUIRE TODD-AO: Liberty Media Group said Monday it agreed to acquire movie and television production company Todd-AO Corp. for roughly $172 million in stock. Liberty, the investment arm of cable magnate John Malone, is a tracking stock of AT&T Corp., but it maintains almost total autonomy within the AT&T empire. Based on Friday's closing price for Todd-AO's class A shares of $25, and class A shares of Liberty Media at $46, the companies said the deal values Todd-AO's class A Shares at $21.50 each. (Dow Jones)

ASPEN SKIING NOT AS WORRIED: Aspen Skiing Co. officials are watching the weather as closely as their counterparts at other ski area companies, but maybe with a little less anxiety. The company has pre-sold more than 100,000 lift tickets for the season, locking in revenues regardless of snow conditions. Aspen Skiing Co., which operates the Aspen, Snowmass, Buttermilk and Aspen Highlands ski areas, offered multiday lift tickets for as little as $39 per day. Final numbers have not been tallied, but resort officials estimate 100,000 tickets were sold. (AP)

ACX TO SELL MILL: ACX Technologies Inc. announced Monday that it intends to sell its recycled paperboard mill in Kalamazoo, Mich. Golden-based ACX engaged Salomon Smith Barney to act as adviser in the transaction. The sale of the mill will include a long-term supply agreement with ACX's subsidiary, Graphic Packaging Corp. The Kalamazoo mill is one of the foremost producers of high-quality coated recycled paperboard in North America. The sale is expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2000. (The Denver Post)

IL FORNAIO TO OPEN IN DTC: A second Il Fornaio restaurant and bakery is scheduled to open by the middle of next year at the corner of East Belleview Avenue and South Ulster Street in the Denver Tech Center, the California-based company said Monday. The new Il Fornaio Cucina Italiana e Panetteria, will occupy 8,000 square feet and provide outdoor seating. The company said the new location is part of its plan to enter one or two new markets and add to others in 2000. Il Fornaio (America)Corp. owns and operates 21 Italian restaurants. (The Denver Post)

FORMER POST EDITOR JOINS CHINAONLINE: ChinaOnline, a Chicago-based online publisher of business news and analysis about the People's Republic of China, has appointed former Denver Post Editor Dennis Britton as its editor in chief. Britton left the Post earlier this year after three years as editor in chief and executive vice president. ChinaOnline syndicates news pieces on China to Reuters and other media outlets. (The Denver Post)

Nation/World

XEROXWARNING RATTLES INVESTORS: Stock prices ended mixed Monday as a profit warning from Xerox rattled the market but failed to discourage technology investors, who pulled the Nasdaq composite index further into record high territory. In a fitful session, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 32.11 to close at 11,192.59. Broader stock indicators were mixed. The Standard & Poor's 500 fell 1.82 to 1,415.22, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 37.93 to 3,658.17, its 23rd record close since Oct. 29. Declining issues outnumbered advancers five to three on the New York Stock Exchange. (AP)

FIRST SECURITY PURCHASE APPROVED: Zions Bancorp's purchase of First Security Corp. won Federal Reserve Board approval after the bank agreed to divest 64 branches in Utah and Idaho. In Colorado, Zions operates Vectra Bank Colorado. "First Security also must report to the Federal Reserve System semiannually during the two-year period after consummation of the merger all branch closings that occur as a result of this proposal," the Fed said. The combination of Zions and First Security will create the 24th biggest bank in the U.S. and the biggest in Utah, after the branch sales, the Fed said. Consolidated assets will total about $38 billion. The company will be called First Security Corp. (Bloomberg)

SEVEN NASDAQ STOCKS TO HIT HONG KONG EXCHANGE: The National Association of Securities Dealers signed an agreement Monday for a pilot program that will allow the trading of seven well-known Nasdaq stocks on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong. The move is the latest by NASD, the parent of the Nasdaq Stock Market, to encourage creation of a worldwide trading network. The seven companies are: Microsoft Corp.; Intel Corp.; Cisco Systems Inc. Dell Computer Corp.; Applied Materials Inc.; Amgen Inc.; and Starbucks Corp. (AP)

WHITTMAN-HART ACQUIRING USWEB/XKS: Computer consultant Whittman-Hart Inc. is acquiring USWeb/CKS, which also provides Internet consulting and professional services, for about $4.4 billion in stock. The resulting company will have about 8,000 workers in 13 countries, the two companies said in a joint statement Monday. Under the terms of the deal, each outstanding share of USWeb/CKS will be exchanged for 0.865 shares of Whittman-Hart stock. Following the merger, USWeb/CKS shareholders will own about 57 percent of the combined company and Whittman-Hart shareholders will own about 43 percent. (AP)

HOLIDAY SHOPPERS CONTINUE TO SPEND: Wal-Mart Stores Inc., Zale Corp. and other retailers drew crowds of shoppers for the third weekend of the holiday season, keeping the industry on track to meet sales forecasts, analysts said. Wal-Mart, the world's biggest retailer, said last week's cool temperatures helped bring shoppers into its stores and raised sales to "near the upper end" of forecasts. (Bloomberg)

3COM FILES FOR IPO: 3Com Corp.'s Palm Inc. unit, the No. 1 electronic-organizer maker, filed for an initial public offering of stock, giving investors a way to benefit from 3Com's fastest-growing business. Nokia Oyj and Motorola Inc., the two biggest cellular phone makers, and No. 1 Internet service America Online Inc. agreed to invest as much as $225 million to buy Palm stock in private placements. (Bloomberg)

MOUNTAIN BIKES RECALLED: Huffy Corp., a bicycle and basketball backboard maker, will recall approximately 18,600 men's mountain bikes because of faulty frames. The frames can break apart and cause serious injury to their riders. The recall involves ALX 1000, ALX 1500 and Aluminum 300 bicycles. (AP)

RATES RISE: Interest rates on short-term Treasury securities rose in Monday's auction. The Treasury Department sold $9 billion in three-month bills at a discount rate of 5.210 percent, up from 5.050 percent last week. An additional $8 billion was sold in six-month bills at a rate of 5.410 percent, up from 5.290 percent. The three-month rate was the highest since Dec. 29, 1997, when the bills sold for 5.285 percent. The six-month rate was the highest since April 28, 1997, when the rate was 5.45. The new discount rates understate the actual return to investors - 5.368 percent for three-month bills and 5.655 percent for a six-month bill. (AP)

Document DNVR000020150821dvce00dn3




BUSINESS
XEROX WARNING SPURS JITTERS, CAN'T STOP NASDAQ  

The Associated Press  
521 words
14 December 1999
St. Louis Post-Dispatch
SLMO
EDITION: FIVE STAR LIFT
PAGE: C3
English
Copyright 1999, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.  

NEW YORK  

Stock prices ended mixed Monday as a profit warning from Xerox rattled the market but failed to discourage technology investors, who pulled the Nasdaq composite index further into record high territory.  

In a fitful session, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 32.11 to close at 11,192.59.  

Broader stock indicators were mixed. The Standard & Poor's 500 fell 1.82 to 1,415.22, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 37.91 to 3,658.15, its 23rd record close since Oct. 29.  

The Nasdaq, dominated by technology stocks, is now up 66.8 percent for 1999. The Dow is up 21.9 percent.  

"The technology stocks continue to pull in money, and they're pulling it away from the rest of the market," said Eugene G. Mintz, financial markets analyst at Brown Brothers Harriman in New York. "There doesn't seem to be any other sector that's grabbing attention."  

Despite the modest movements of market averages, trading was fairly volatile following a profit warning from Xerox late Friday. Citing a shortfall in sales due to Year 2000 computer concerns, Xerox said it expects fourth-quarter earnings to come in 40 percent below analysts' expectations.  

The warning from Xerox rattled investors who are counting on strong corporate profit growth in the fourth quarter. With market averages at or near record levels, investors are demanding strong earnings growth to justify the high prices of many stocks.  

Xerox itself rose 1 1/4 to 21 as of 5:45 p.m. The company's shares fell to a 52-week low in Friday's late trading session, dipping to 19 7/8 and prompting some bargain-hunting Monday, traders said.  

Also, many investors determined that Xerox's woes may not extend to other technology companies, and returned to the market in search of some high-tech favorites. IBM rose 1 1/16 to 110 1/16, Microsoft gained 2 3/4 to 96 5/8 and Qualcomm soared 26 1/16 to 417 9/16.  

Even Wal-Mart benefited from the technology frenzy, rising 5 to 68 1/4 on speculation that it will soon announce an alliance with America Online.  

Financial stocks, which led the market on Friday, were mostly lower Monday. American Express lost 1 7/16 to 166 5/16 and Citigroup fell 11/16 to 55 7/16.  

Analysts said those shares were slipping in advance of today's report on the consumer price index. The report, the government's most closely watched inflation gauge, is expected to be benign. But Wall Street remains wary of inflation, which could prompt the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates sometime in the next few months.  

Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 5-to-3 margin on the New York Stock Exchange. NYSE composite volume totaled 1.25 billion shares, compared with 1.24 billion in the previous session.  

postnet.com/business Check your stocks online or create a portfolio with mypostnet.com.

GRAPHIC | Post-Dispatch Graphic/chart - Dow Jones industrial average: 11192.59  

Document SLMO000020040605dvce00kh5


WALL STREET
BUSINESS
NASDAQ HITS ANOTHER RECORD BUT BLUE-CHIP INDEX TUMBLES

81 words
14 December 1999
Press-Telegram
KRTLB
AM
A13
English
Copyright 1999, Press-Telegram. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

Stock prices ended mixed Monday as a profit warning from Xerox rattled the market but failed to discourage technology investors, who pulled the Nasdaq composite index further into record high territory.

In a fitful session, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 32.11 to close at 11,192.59. The Nasdaq composite index rose 37.92 to 3,658.15, its 23rd record close since Oct. 29.

Document KRTLB00020101018dvce00xfy




 Business 
 Nasdaq hits another record as technology stocks stay hot 

 Eileen Glanton 
Associated Press
336 words
14 December 1999
San Antonio Express-News
SAEN
Metro
03F
English
(c) Copyright 1999 San Antonio Express-News. All Rights Reserved.

 NEW YORK - Stock prices ended mixed Monday as a profit warning from Xerox rattled the market but failed to discourage technology investors, who pulled the Nasdaq composite index further into record high territory. 

 In a fitful session, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 32.11 to close at 11,192.59. 

 Broader stock indicators were mixed. The Standard & Poor's 500 fell 1.82 to 1,415.22, but the Nasdaq composite index rose 37.91 to 3,658.15, its 23rd record close since Oct. 29. 

 The Nasdaq, dominated by technology stocks, is up 66.8 percent for 1999. The Dow is up 21.9 percent. 

 "The technology stocks continue to pull in money, and they're pulling it away from the rest of the market," said Eugene Mintz, financial markets analyst at Brown Brothers Harriman in New York. "There doesn't seem to be any other sector that's grabbing attention." 

 Despite the modest movements of market averages, trading was fairly volatile after a profit warning from Xerox late Friday. Citing a shortfall in sales because of Year 2000 computer concerns, Xerox said it expects fourth-quarter earnings to come in 40 percent below analysts' expectations. 

 The warning from Xerox rattled investors counting on strong corporate profit growth in the fourth quarter. With market averages at or near record levels, investors are demanding strong earnings growth to justify the high prices of many stocks. 

 Xerox itself rose 11/4 to 211/8. The company's shares fell to a 52-week low in Friday's late trading session, dipping to 197/8 and prompting some bargain-hunting Monday, traders said. 

 Also, many investors determined that Xerox's woes may not extend to other technology companies, and returned to the market in search of some high-tech favorites. IBM rose 11/16 to 1101/16, Microsoft gained 23/4 to 965/8 and Qualcomm soared 261/16 to 4179/16. 

Document saen000020010829dvce00x6d


 Nasdaq climbs to another record 

390 words
14 December 1999
The Journal Record
JR
English
Copyright (c) 1999 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved.

 NEW YORK (AP) -- Stock prices ended mixed Monday as a profitwarning from Xerox rattled the market but failed to discourage technology investors, who pulled the Nasdaq composite index further into record high territory. 

 In a fitful session, the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 32.11 to close at 11,192.59. 

 Broader stock indicators were mixed. The Standard & Poor's 500 fell 1.82 to 1,415.22, and the Nasdaq Composite index rose 37.91 to 3,658.15, its 23rd record close since Oct. 29. 

 The Nasdaq, dominated by technology stocks, is now up 66.8 percent for 1999. The Dow is up 21.9 percent. 

 "The technology stocks continue to pull in money, and they're pulling it away from the rest of the market," said Eugene G. Mintz, financial markets analyst at Brown Brothers Harriman in New York. "There doesn't seem to be any other sector that's grabbing attention." 

 Despite the modest movements of market averages, trading was fairly volatile following a profit warning from Xerox late Friday. Citing a shortfall in sales due to Year 2000 computer concerns, Xerox said it expects fourth quarter earnings to come in 40 percent below analysts' expectations. 

 The warning from Xerox rattled investors who are counting on strong corporate profit growth in the fourth quarter. With market averages at or near record levels, investors are demanding strong earnings growth to justify the high prices of many stocks. 

 Xerox itself rose 1.25 to 21.125 as of 5:45 p.m. The company's shares fell to a 52-week low in Friday's late trading session, dipping to 19.875 and prompting some bargain-hunting Monday, traders said. 

 Also, many investors determined that Xerox's woes may not extend to other technology companies, and returned to the market in search of some high-tech favorites. IBM rose 1.0625 to 110.0625, Microsoft gained 2.75 to 96.625 and Qualcomm soared 26.0625 to 417.5625. 

 Even Wal-Mart benefited from the technology frenzy, rising 5 to 68.25 on speculation that it will soon announce an alliance with America Online. 

 Technology has dramatically outperformed the rest of the market this year, leaving some analysts concerned that the sector's strength is masking weakness in the broad market. 

Document jr00000020010828dvce0064c




 Economics 
 TASE keeps climbing on peace momentum 

 News agencies 
1,741 words
14 December 1999
The Jerusalem Post
JPST
Daily
13
English
 (Copyright 1999) 

 SHARES 

 TEL AVIV 

 The Tel Aviv-25 Index of the largest companies closed at a record high yesterday, led by Bank Hapoalim Ltd., in the third day of a rally touched off by an agreement to restart peace talks with Syria and expectations of new foreign investment. 

 The index rose 0.23 percent to 469.40 after climbing 3.29% on Sunday. Nine stocks rose, 14 fell, and two were unchanged. 

 Bank Hapoalim rose 2.5% to NIS 13.03 and Bank Leumi Ltd. rose 1.2% to 8.34. The country's two largest banks are likely to benefit from stronger growth and more investment if a peace treaty is signed with Syria and Lebanon. 

 Koor Industries Ltd. rose 1.87% to 435. The company's defense interests are likely to benefit from peace with Syria if Israel loses its strategic position on the Golan Heights and has to depend more on advanced weapons. 

 Bezeq Ltd. lost 1% to 20.6. Management reportedly supports selling government control to an investor group in a private tender, a change from its original position in favor of a public share offering. 

 EUROPE 

 UK phone companies, including Cable & Wireless Plc and Colt Telecom Plc, fell on concern recent gains left shares expensive relative to their profit outlook. Pearson Plc led gains among media companies. 

 The benchmark FT-SE 100 Index fell 28.8 points, or 0.4%, to 6710.7. About as many shares rose as declined. Cable & Wireless dropped 66.5 pence to 1,014.5, paring a one-month gain of 39%. Colt fell for the first day in eight, dropping 42p to 3,030. 

 "There is no doubt that in the long run people will realize some of these stocks are overvalued," said Mark Tyndall, a partner at Apax Asset Management. Colt had risen 46% in the past month. 

 British Telecommunications Plc slid 5.5p to 1,427. Energis Plc, which has gained 16.6% over the past month, slipped 212p to 2,691. 

 "Support has dried up for telecoms stocks at the moment," said Peter Cogliatti, a trader at Williams de Broe. 

 WALL STREET 

 Stock prices ended mixed yesterday as a profit warning from Xerox rattled the market but failed to discourage technology investors, who pulled the Nasdaq composite index further into record high territory. 

 On Wall Street, the Dow Jones industrial average dropped 32.11, or 0.3 percent, at 11,192.59. The index had changed course several times during the session. 

 Broader stock indicators were mixed. The Nasdaq set its 23rd record since Oct. 29, and is now up 66.9% for 1999. The Dow is up 21.9% in the year to date. 

 According to preliminary calculations, the Standard and Poor's 500 fell 1.82 to 1,415.22, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 40.75 to 3,660.99. 

 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 5-to-3 margin on the New York Stock Exchange, with 1,942 down, 1,141 up and 488 unchanged. 

 NYSE volume totaled 971.00 million shares as of 4 p.m., vs. 981.37 million in the previous session. 

 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 3.68 to 470.39. 

 "The technology stocks continue to pull in money, and they're pulling it away from the rest of the market," said Eugene G. Mintz, financial markets analyst at Brown Brothers Harriman in New York. "There doesn't seem to be any other sector that's grabbing attention." 

 Despite the modest movements of market averages, trading was fairly volatile following a profit warning from Xerox late Friday. Citing a shortfall in sales due to Year 2000 computer concerns, Xerox said it expects fourth- quarter earnings to come in 40 percent below analysts' expectations. 

 The warning from Xerox rattled investors who are counting on strong corporate profit growth in the fourth quarter. With market averages at or near record levels, investors are demanding strong earnings growth to justify the high prices of many stocks. 

 ASIA 

 Telecommunications stocks in the Philippines, Thailand, and Malaysia rallied as investors bet economic recovery and increased Internet use will boost sales. 

 Gains by Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co., Shin Corp Pcl., and Telekom Malaysia Bhd. helped push the Philippines' PSE Composite Index up 3.8%, Thailand's SET Index up 3.7%, and Malaysia's Kuala Lumpur's 100-stock composite index up 3.4%, respectively. 

 PLDT is "a massively underperforming stock," said Andrew Long, head of research for Vickers Ballas Securities Philippines Inc. In the next 12 months, the stock could move beyond its record high of 1,290 pesos set April 19 as expansion into Internet and cable television services boosts sales, he said. 

 In other markets, the Nikkei 225 stock average slipped 0.4%, paced by machinery stocks and other companies that depend on the strength of the domestic economy for sales growth, after a government business confidence survey showed only a modest improvement. Expectations of rising demand for telecommunications and Internet-related services pushed Taiwan's TWSE Index up 1.9%. 

 CURRENCIES 

 The yen had its worst day against the dollar in four weeks and fell against the euro after a report showed confidence among large Japanese manufacturers isn't rising as much as expected. 

 The Bank of Japan's quarterly "Tankan" survey gave a mixed view of the world's second-largest economy, leaving some analysts with the impression that while Japan's growth isn't tailing off, it still isn't gaining much strength. 

 "People were probably looking for much better than what came out," said Andy Busch, director of foreign exchange at Bank of Montreal in Chicago. "If you're looking for continued growth, it's just not quite there yet." Nevertheless, Busch doesn't expect aggressive selling of yen unless Japanese stocks drop significantly. 

 The yen fell to 103.26 per dollar, giving up a full yen from 102.25 late Friday in New York. Against the euro, it fell to 104.47, from 103.645. Even with yesterday's declines, the Japanese currency has been the strongest of three major currencies, climbing 10.6% against the dollar since the start of the year and 27.6% against the euro. 

 The euro was little changed against the dollar, at $1.0117 from $1.0134 as reports showed rising retail sales and accelerating inflation in Germany, Europe's largest economy. 

 The Tankan survey's index of confidence among large manufacturers registered -17, better than the -22 Reading in September, yet short of the -15 expected in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. 

 While the index has been steadily improving from a five-year low of -51 in September 1998, it still hasn't shown a positive reading in more than two years. 

 Underscoring the tentative nature of Japan's economic rebound, the Tankan report showed Japanese companies plan to reduce their capital spending. 

 "A little bit of negative news from Japan could finally contribute to a weaker yen," said Keisuke Aso, manager of trading at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi in New York. 

 Yen losses accelerated when traders who had bet the dollar would fall against the yen then bought dollars to minimize their losses, traders said. 

 "Japan was looking at the Tankan thinking there would be a weaker dollar," said Brian Linsky, a trader at Republic National Bank of New York. "Since that didn't happen they're now covering some dollar" short positions. 

 Still, the yen will likely hold in a range, as any rallies in the dollar will give Japanese exporters an incentive to sell the US currency, limiting its gains against the yen. 

 Yen-selling after the Tankan report was tempered by expectations that international investors will continue to funnel funds into Japanese stocks. 

 Sufficient demand for yen remains to push the currency higher in coming weeks, as there's enough improvement in the survey "that people are somewhat optimistic so they keep investing in the equity markets," said DLJ's Kasmin. 

 Foreigners were net buyers of Japanese stocks in 42 of 48 weeks so far this year, according to the Tokyo stock exchange. At the same time, the benchmark Nikkei 225 stock average has surged 45% in dollar terms. 

 Most of the gains in confidence came in the January- July period, as reports showed better-than-expected growth, fueled largely by government spending. 

 Some traders were also encouraged as the Tankan showed large manufacturers expect the index to improve to minus nine by March. 

 "The figures show that the economy is going to improve some time in the future, but that the recovery is not self- sustaining yet," said Alex Blinkhorn, chief currency trader at Bank of Tokyo- Mitsubishi, Dusseldorf. 

 The dollar is likely to trade between 102 yen and 103.30 yen in coming days, Blinkhorn said. 

 Yen losses also were capped as Japanese exporters took advantage of the dollar's gains to convert some of their overseas earnings. 

 In Europe, the single currency was little changed after reports showed German retail sales rose in October at their fastest pace in nine months, compared with the previous month. 

 Compared to a year earlier, sales were weaker than expected. 

 Separate German figures indicated consumer prices rose 0.2% in November from October and climbed 1% in the year, matching projections. 

 COMMODITIES 

 METALS 

 Palladium for immediate delivery rose as much as $6, or 1.5%, to $420.50 an ounce, the highest level in 18 months. Concern is rising that deliveries from Russia, which supplies two-thirds of the world's palladium, will be halted at the start of the next year as they have in each of the past three years. Increasing political uncertainty as the country prepares for parliamentary elections on Sunday and presidential elections in June has added to the concern, traders said. 

 ENERGY 

 Crude oil for January settlement was little changed at $24.53 a barrel on the International Petroleum Exchange as concern demand is outpacing supply offset an expected resumption of exports from Iraq after a three-week suspension. 

 Iraq, which accounts for about 3% of world supply, is expected to resume shipments this week after the UN Friday voted to renew its six- month export program, which caused oil prices to drop 2.4%. Now, supply restraints by other countries are driving prices higher ahead of peak winter demand for crude oil products. 

Trading Floors

Document jpst000020010828dvce00b8m




BUSINESS
XEROX OUTLOOK COOLS STOCKS

BLOOMBERG NEWS
356 words
13 December 1999
The Seattle Times
SETL
SECOND
C8
English
Copyright 1999, The Seattle Times Company  All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

NEW YORK - Stocks were mixed today after a pessimistic earnings forecast from Xerox unsettled some investors but failed to keep others from their pursuit of technology shares.

The Dow Jones industrial average was down 9.17 to 11,215.53 at midday. Volume at the New York Stock Exchange was about 553 million shares.

The Standard & Poor's 500 index was down 1.43 at 1,415.61, and the Nasdaq composite index was up 25.43 at 3,645.66.

The broader market was rattled by a warning from Xerox late Friday. The maker of copiers and printers said it expects fourth-quarter sales to slip and earnings to come in 40 percent below analysts' expectations. Xerox cited a shortfall in sales due to Year 2000 computer concerns.

The warning from Xerox rattled investors who are counting on strong corporate profit growth in the fourth quarter. With market averages at or near record levels, investors are demanding strong earnings growth to justify the high prices of many stocks.

Xerox itself rose $1.688 to $21.75. The company's shares fell to a 52-week low in Friday's late trading session, dipping to $19.875 and prompting some bargain-hunting today, traders said.

Investors also returned to the market to trade technology shares. Microsoft was up $1 at $94.875.

Technology has dramatically outperformed the rest of the market this year, leaving some analysts concerned that the sector's strength is masking weakness in the broad market.

"Without a pickup in breadth and an improvement in the underlying structure of the market, markets would be increasingly vulnerable to a more serious decline," said A.C. Moore, chief investment strategist at Dunvegan Associates in Santa Barbara, Calif.

Trading was fairly quiet as some investors chose to wait for tomorrow's report on the consumer price index.

The report, the government's most closely watched inflation gauge, is expected to be benign.

But Wall Street remains wary of inflation, which could prompt the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates some time in the next few months.

Document SETL000020090125dvcd004ek




 Wall Street stocks ended mixed Monday. 

258 words
13 December 1999
Xinhua News Agency
XNEWS
English
(c) Copyright 1999 Xinhua News Agency

 Wall Street stocks ended mixed Monday as a profit warning from Xerox dragged the blue chip index lower while the technology stocks lifted to the new record high. The Dow index closed down 32.11 at 11,192.59, erasing the gain of 89.91 points last Friday. Broader stock indicators were mixed. The Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 2.83 at 1,414.21 but the technology heavy Nasdaq composite index rose 37.91 at 3,658.15, setting its 23rd record since October 29. The Nasdaq index is now up 66.9 percent for 1999 vs. 21 percent for the Dow index and 15 percent for the S & P. The Dow index fell as Xerox said its fourth-quarter earnings were expected to come in 40 percent below analysts' expectations. The warning rattled investors who were counting on strong corporate profit growth in the fourth quarter. But many investors poured money in technology stocks, pushing the Nasdaq index higher. IBM, Microsoft and Qualcomm rose. 

  The NYSE index fell 2.98 at 636.51 and the American Stock Exchange index fell 0.50 at 828.69. But the Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 3.67 at 470.38. Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 5-to-3 margin on the New York Stock Exchange, with 1,942 down, 1,141 up and 488 unchanged. NYSE volume declined to 971.00 million shares from 981.37 million in the previous session. (c) Copyright 1999 Xinhua News Agency. 

Document xnews00020010913dvcd017yu




 U.S. stock index futures mixed in tight range. 

414 words
13 December 1999
16:36
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 CHICAGO, Dec 13 (Reuters) - U.S. stock index futures traded mixed early Monday in a narrow range, as many participants awaited key U.S. economic data on Tuesday, floor traders said. 

 The November consumer price index is forecast to rise 0.2 percent both overall and in the core rate, which excludes food and energy prices. 

 "Everybody's trying to get themselves squared away for that. People who tried to short before the PPI (producer price index) number on Thursday got burnt, so nobody really wants to try to push it down too much," one Dow Jones index floor trader said. 

 Bonds are flat, offering no direction for the futures market, said William Bayer, vice president of PTI Securities. 

 "The stock market will be marking time today ahead of CPI," Bayer said. 

 Contracts opened lower, with slight pressure from a Xerox Corp. profit warning after close Friday, and then hit new daily lows before paring losses. 

 "The Xerox earnings statement on Friday certainly was somewhat of a surprise and took the stock down in after-hours trade," Bayer said. "But it looks like Xerox is bottoming out here and prices should be higher barring any unforeseen catastrophe." 

 Brokers expect range trade for the remainder of the session. 

 "By the end of the day, we'll maybe be down 40 or 50 points or maybe up a little bit," a Dow futures trader said. "On the technical charts, the trend is still up for now. The Dow's probably still going to make a contract high toward the end of the year sometime." 

 Resistance for the March Standard & Poor's 500 contract is seen near 1,443.50, with support near 1,424.50 and again near 1,409.75. Arbitrage buy programmes in March S&Ps are likely near 20.0 points over or more and sell programmes near 16.5 points over or less. 

 March Dow Jones fair value is at about 130.6 points premium. 

 At 9:54 a.m. CST (1554 GMT), March S&Ps were 1.00 point higher at 1,436.00, Dow futures off 27 at 11,345, Nikkeis down 145 at 18,220, Nasdaq 100s up 15.00 at 3,270.00, Russell 2000s up 1.35 at 474.50 and Midcaps were up 3.00 at 428.00. ((Chicago Derivatives Desk(312)408-8750 chicago.derivatives.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dvcd08ea5




 U.S. stocks mixed, Nasdaq in record ground. 

 By Ian Simpson 
474 words
13 December 1999
16:25
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 13 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks were mixed in late morning trading on Monday as technology issues pulled the high-flying Nasdaq composite index into record ground. 

 The overall market was hampered by profit-taking following recent gains and an earnings warning from copier equipment giant Xerox Corp.. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average .DJI) was down 22 points, or 0.19 percent, at 11,202. The marquee index is up 10 percent since mid-October. 

 Declining issues headed advances 1,559 to 1,214 on active volume of more than 297 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 The Nasdaq composite index .IXIC) was up 26 points, or 0.7 percent, at 3,645, rebounding from a mid-morning dip. The gauge closed Friday at its sixth record in seven sessions and is up 35 percent since mid-October. 

 "Tech stocks are pulling the Nasdaq out of the dirt right now," said Jim Benning, director of equity trading at BT Brokerage. 

 Among Nasdaq's strong performers, Microsoft Corp. was up 9/16 at 94-15/32 and 5/8 and software company Corel Corp. rose 3-7/8 to 34-3/8. 

 The Standard & Poor's 500 index .SPX) was flat at 1,417. 

 The U.S. Treasury 30-year bond was off 4/32, with the yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, rose to 6.18 percent from 6.17 percent on Friday. 

 Xerox helped undercut stocks. The company said its fourth-quarter earnings could fall 40 percent short of Wall Street's forecast. 

 Xerox, which was down 2-5/8 at 22-1/16 was the volume leader on the NYSE. J.P. Morgan cut its rating on the shares and PaineWebber trimmed its outlook for the company's earnings. 

 The bad news dragged down other copier and office equipment shares. Among them, Ikon Office Solutions Inc. dipped 3/8 to 6-5/8, Pitney Bowes Inc. was off 1-15/16 to 42 and Lexmark International Group Inc. fell 2-3/8 to 73-1/2. 

 Intel, a new Dow component, rallied after sliding early on a ratings downgrade by Prudential Securities. Intel was up 1/8 at 72-5/16. 

 Among market sectors, the Dow Jones transportation index .DJT) was up 1.15 percent, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange bank gauge .BKX) slipped 1.39 percent and the Dow Jones utility average .DJU) tipped 0.7 percent lower. 

 Financial markets are looking ahead to the U.S. Consumer Price Index set for Tuesday. The inflation data could provide a clue about whether the Federal Reserve's policy-setting panel will raise interest rates at its next meeting on Dec. 21. ((-Ian Simpson, Wall Street desk, (212) 859-1879)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dvcd08e8o


 Apopka, Fla.-Based Wireless Phone Maker Heads List of Big Gainers 

 Greg Groeller 
501 words
13 December 1999
KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Orlando Sentinel - Florida
KRTBN
English
Copyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)

 Sawtek Inc. shareholders need only to look at their income statements to find holiday cheer. 

 The Apopka-based company's stock is this year's biggest gainer of 100 publicly -- held companies based in Central Florida or with a major presence in Central Florida. here. 

 The Orlando Sentinel, measuring year-to-date total return -- that is stock performance plus reinvested dividends -- found the maker of components for wireless phones gained 580 percent, fueled by record profit and a flurry of "buy" recommendations from Wall Street analysts. 

 In other words, a $1,000 investment in Sawtek at the beginning of 1999 would have grown to $5,424 as of mid-last week. And the run-up may continue. 

 In its latest quarterly report, Sawtek predicted earnings could continue to grow on the booming worldwide demand for wireless technology. 

 Investors in Phoenix International Ltd. weren't so lucky: A $1,000 investment in the Heathrow maker of banking software would be worth about $271 today. Phoenix watched its total return sink 73 percent in 1999, making it the biggest loser on the list. 

 Like some other software companies, Phoenix blames its plummeting profit in part on the Y2K computer bug. Clients are shying away from investments in application software as they pour money into testing and correcting their computer systems. 

 But Phoenix was more the rule than the exception. Fifty-two of the 100 companies posted negative returns. And sagging profit wasn't always the reason. In some cases, fear s of sagging profit were was all it took to knock down a stock. 

 Take Priority Healthcare Corp., an Altamonte Springs drug company. Priority Healthcare's total return was down 73 percent, despite a 100 percent increase in year-to-date profit. Why? Investors feared the company could lose business because rival drug distributor Caremark Inc. was picked as "a preferred distributor" of Schering-Plough Corp.'s Rebetron therapy for hepatitis C. Priority Healthcare, which also distributes the drugs, derives about a third of its profit from hepatitis drugs. 

 Similarly, AutoNation Inc.'s total return fell 34 percent, despite a 78.6 percent growth in profit. In November, AutoNation continued a broad restructuring by laying off 145 workers at its Fort Lauderdale headquarters and warning 50 others that their jobs also may be eliminated.cut. 

 On the flip side, Orlando Predators Entertainment Inc. -- which owns the Orlando Predators arena football team -- posted year-to-date losses of $69,000, but it still managed an 11 percent total return. The stock surged in early December after a partnership that included including an executive of the Detroit Lions -- a National Football League team -- purchased bought an arena football franchise in Detroit. 

 The purchase signaled growing interest in the arena football league by the NFL, which has an option to buy 49 percent of the league. Investors hope the NFL will pour money into the arena league, boosting its popularity and team revenue. 

Document krtbn00020010828dvcd0266t


 Tech deals keep markets steady. 

 By MALCOLM WHITTLE. 
524 words
12 December 1999
Sunday Herald Sun
SUHERS
74
English
(c) 1999 Herald and Weekly Times Limited

 Deals, mergers and speculation in telco and tech stocks, helped by benign economic statistics, staved off threatened corrections from continual profit taking. 

 UNITED STATES 

 The Nasdaq pushed to new records, while the broader market struggled and finished lower. 

 The Beige Book report showed productivity climbed at its fastest pace for seven years as labor costs fell. 

 The Producer Price Index core rate remained unchanged last month, as 30-year bond yields fell on Friday to 6.16 per cent. 

 Yahoo led the techs as it entered the S&P 500 index, jumping 24 per cent mid week. 

 Microsoft continued to extend its empire, combining with Ericsson to offer Web browsers on mobile phones. While one of its greatest threats, VA Linux Systems, set a record as an Initial Public Offering, rising 690 per cent on its debut, closing on day one at $376.50. 

 Red Hat hit $443.90 and General Motors Corp took a $2.22 billion interest in Subaru maker, Japan's Fuji Heavy Industries. 

 Mexico reached a record close mid-week as foreign investors bought banks and telco stocks. 

 EUROPE 

 While the French CAC hit records, the UK and Germany were weaker, despite statistics showing the German economy expanding, with industrial production up 1.7 per cent in October and a fall in the number of jobless. 

 Markets were lifted by merger activity, with Bell South, of the US, and KPN, of the Netherlands, gazumping France Telecom, buying 77.5 per cent of Germany's cellular operator, E-plus, for $30.4 billion, turning an original $236 million investment by Bell South in E-plus into a $12.25 billion asset. 

 BskyB is to buy 10 per cent of Gameplay.com, a game portal, and 24 per cent of Germany's KirchPayTV for $2.36 billion, as media stocks enjoy a bout of takeover speculation. 

 Poland's Bank Handlowy and BRE Bank are to merge in a $14.2 billion deal, as East follows West. 

 ASIA 

 Singapore shook off last year's Asian crisis by touching new highs, led by finance and tech stocks. 

 Japan struggled lower with exporters reeling as the yen continued to strengthen and weak GDP numbers showed the economy might still have a way to go. 

 KDD, IDO and DDI are in merger talks to form the second biggest Japanese phone company. 

 Hong Kong was led higher by telcos, on expectations of a takeover of Cable & Wireless' Hong Kong subsidiary. 

 Korea edged higher on previously overlooked finance and construction companies. 

 AUSTRALIA 

 Unemployment fell to a nine-year low of 6.7 per cent as the economy moved to a new millennium in good shape. 

 Gold led resources south as the price fell on further European central banks selling, but the wider market finished higher, led by media and telco stocks. 

 Coca-Cola Amatil issued a profit warning, adding to the parent company's woes as the shares fell sharply. 

 A stronger finish in the US, particularly the Nasdaq, should offset increasing worries about valuations early this week. - SECT-Personal finance. 

 (C) 1999 Herald and Weekly Times Limited. 

Document suhers0020010911dvcc0037b




BUSINESS
SMALL INVESTORS PRESS FOR ACCESS TO INSIDE SCOOP

BLOOMBERG NEWS
1,809 words
12 December 1999
The Seattle Times
SETL
FINAL
H5
English
Copyright 1999, The Seattle Times Company  All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

THE HEAT IS ON corporate America to open up those exclusive conference calls that tip off big-league players on news that might affect stock prices. Companies say the calls are expensive already, and they fear some investors might misinterpret their words.

NEW YORK - During the first 30 minutes of trading on Aug. 12, Mark Trautman watched the market value of Clorox drop $1.8 billion, or 14.5 percent, costing him $1 million.

The bleach maker had reported a 6 percent gain in fiscal-fourth-quarter profit on a 3 percent drop in sales. Trautman, who invests $65 million at Shay Asset Management in New York, was convinced something else had caused Clorox stock to drop 15 points.

Little did he know that Clorox Chairman Craig Sullivan was warning investors and analysts on an invitation-only conference call that profit wouldn't meet expectations for the next two quarters.

"It's outrageous that I didn't have the same information as some others" says Trautman, who now holds 92,000 Clorox shares. "I was completely in the dark."

Almost daily, companies from Wal-Mart to Apple Computer to Abercrombie & Fitch dole out market-moving information to big investors and analysts in conference calls, closed-door meetings, or one-on-one conversations. That gives some large investors a chance to bail out or profit and leaves some smaller money managers at a disadvantage.

When companies parcel out critical information to some investors and not to others, it's known as selective disclosure. While experts don't always agree on when it occurs or even whether it's illegal, regulators say selective disclosure is unethical and damages the integrity of the stock market. "Selectiveness is a disservice to investors, and it undermines the fundamental principle of fairness," U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission chairman Arthur Levitt said in an October speech in New York. "The practice is downright deceptive and verges on illegality."

Everyone with a stake in the stock market is affected by selective disclosure. About 78.7 million people own shares, either directly or through mutual funds and pension plans, up 86 percent from 1983, according to a survey by the Investment Company Institute and the Securities Industry Association.

Yet many money managers can't get timely information.

"The playing field isn't level," says Fredric Russell, chief executive of Fredric E. Russell Investment Management Co., a Tulsa, Okla., firm that manages $75 million. "Some investors are more equal than others."

And there's no sign that that distinction will change anytime soon.

Some recent examples:

In July, at the annual Sun Valley, Idaho, summer conference held by investment bank Allen & Co., Pixar chief executive Steve Jobs told a gathering of other CEOs and powerful investors that his animation studio would beat quarterly earnings estimates. That information gave those at the meeting a head start in buying the stock, which gained as much as 6 percent that day.

Officials at Apple Computer, Jobs's other company, called up several Wall Street analysts on September 23 to tell them that an earthquake in Taiwan had disrupted computer production and could reduce quarterly revenue by as much as $50 million. Within three days, Apple shares fell more than 7 percent.

On October 8 an Abercrombie & Fitch senior executive told a Lazard Freres analyst that the retailer's third-quarter sales would fall short of expectations. The company said nothing publicly for five days, giving Lazard's clients a big head start to sell shares or short them, essentially betting on a decline. The stock dropped 15 percent before the company confirmed the sales shortfall.

Companies say they're not trying to hide anything and have legitimate reasons for giving information to a screened group of investment professionals.

"It's not feasible to invite everyone on a conference call," says Craig Manson, vice president of investor relations at Ceridian of Minneapolis, which provides human resources services such as payroll processing for corporations. "Conference calls are an enormous expense, a huge chunk of my budget." He says a quarterly conference call that may include as many as 120 analysts and investors costs more than $10,000.

Conference calls cost companies a flat fee plus at least 30 cents per line per minute and additional charges for archiving the presentations and replays. If Ceridian held four conference calls per year at a total cost of $50,000, that would amount to less than 1/100 of 1 percent of the $393.8 million it spent on selling, general, and administrative costs last year.

Wal-Mart, the world's biggest retailer, says the lines would clog if it opened up conference calls to all of its interested shareholders.

"Physically, we'd have a hard time getting everybody on," says Wal-Mart senior vice president and treasurer Jay Fitzsimmons, who also cited the expense of hosting a teleconference. Wal-Mart had sales, general and administrative costs of $22.4 billion last year.

Other companies don't want small investors on their calls because, they say, these listeners might be misled.

"Ours isn't a simple call," says Joseph Kolshak, director of investor relations at Delta Air Lines, the third-largest U.S.

airline. "It's really targeted for a specialized audience."

Gillette, Caterpillar and International Business Machine say they prefer that small investors get their information from the Wall Street analysts who track the companies.

"We're more comfortable with individual investors' getting an account of the calls from the analysts," says Hervey Parke, IBM's director of investor relations.

Wall Street analysts covet the inside scoop so vital to enticing prospective investors to buy. Company executives, in turn, mete out information to gain favor with brokerage analysts whose influential buy recommendations can make or break stocks. "Executives believe they'll get good coverage from analysts if they give them selected information," says Brian Bruce, a finance professor at Southern Methodist University's graduate business school who studies the flow of information from companies to investors.

The SEC's Levitt is blunt in his condemnation of the ties between Wall Street and companies.

"Analysts act more like promoters and marketers than unbiased and dispassionate analysts," Levitt said in his October speech, calling the ties between companies and analysts "a web of dysfunctional relationships."

Some companies invoke federal copyright law either to restrict access to the conference calls or to prevent distribution of recordings to those who couldn't attend.

For the past year, General Motors, , the world's largest automaker, has been copyrighting its conference calls to deter others from rebroadcasting them and to ward off some listeners.

Copyright law, though, doesn't confer the ownership of calls that those companies assert, says David Nimmer, the leading expert on the subject in the U.S. and author of "Nimmer on Copyright," a 10-volume work that has been cited multiple times by the U.S. Supreme Court.

Copyright law, he says, doesn't cover conference calls because such calls involve impromptu conversations between several parties and are not written statements.

"Federal copyright law doesn't apply to conference calls because it only applies to works fixed in a tangible medium of expression," says Nimmer, a lawyer with the Los Angeles firm Irell & Manella. "A conversation wouldn't qualify."

Selective disclosure takes on new meaning in an era when more and more amateur traders are making their own investment decisions.

Online investors now account for 500,000 trades daily, or one in six U.S. stock transactions.

In 1997 Mark Coker, a public relations specialist from Los Gatos, Calif., owned 3,000 shares of Legato Systems, a maker of software that backs up and recovers computer data. When he tried to get onto a Legato conference call, the company denied him access.

Coker, who's now 34, vowed to get even. He sold his Legato shares at a profit of $120,000 and in March 1999 started BestCalls.com, a Web site that tracks conference calls and aims to prod companies into full disclosure.

"The information is out there," Coker says. "And the public wants it."

Change appears to be brewing. Levitt, angered that selective disclosure is so widespread, is pushing the SEC to consider rules to force companies to open up.

"We want to close the gap between those in the so-called `know' and the rest of us," Levitt said in his October New York speech.

But any new SEC rules would face a gauntlet of opposition from businesses and organizations such as the National Investor Relations Institute, a 4,200-member association of corporate officers and investor-relations consultants.

"Our capital markets are working pretty darn well," says Louis Thompson, president of NIRI. "The rules need some tweaking, that's all."

More and more companies are making an effort to give all shareholders equal access. In a June survey of 412 U.S. companies, sponsored by NIRI, 55 percent said they let small investors listen to conference calls, up from 29 percent a year ago. Forty-two percent let reporters listen to teleconferences, a threefold increase from 14 percent a year earlier.

"That's a real sea change when it comes to equal access to information," Thompson says.

On March 25 ConAgra, the producer of Butterball turkeys and Healthy Choice meals, invited a select group of shareholders and analysts to participate in a conference call. Management warned them that fourth-quarter profit would miss earnings forecasts. ConAgra shares promptly fell 9 percent.

The company never issued a press release forecasting the anticipated shortfall. Several shareholders not on the call protested, and ConAgra, the second-largest U.S. food company, decided to mend its ways.

"We stepped back and we asked ourselves, `How can we do this in the most fair way?"' says ConAgra Chief Financial Officer James O'Donnell. "Now we want to make sure that the Wall Street analyst is getting exactly the same information as Aunt Betsy in Montana."

Starting last summer, ConAgra began publishing earnings reports after the close of New York Stock Exchange trading and at the same time issuing a press release that invites all shareholders to listen by phone or on the Internet to top executives discussing the results. That call is taped, and shareholders can access it anytime over the following two weeks by dialing into a special number.

AT&T also has decided to put its conference calls and written comments on strategy and finances on its Internet site at the same moment it distributes that information to Wall Street.

"We've had it as a policy to broaden our disclosure," says AT&T Chief Financial Officer Dan Somers. "We had a long period of time where our general communications was relatively couched and not broad."

Document SETL000020090125dvcc0045v


Sports
SUGAR BOWL? THAT'S THE TICKET; SCHOOL COMPUTERS OFF LIMITS FOR SCALPING

Rex Bowman; Times-Dispatch Staff Writer   
621 words
10 December 1999
The Richmond Times-Dispatch
RCHD
City
D-1
English
Copyright 1999, Media General. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

Virginia Tech is threatening to take away Sugar Bowl tickets from students using the school's Internet access to scalp them, suggesting the students are selling out "their team spirit."

Since Tuesday, many students have sold the $85 tickets in bidding wars that have escalated into the hundreds of dollars.

In an e-mail sent to 14,500 students late Wednesday, the university's judicial affairs office warned those trying to take advantage of the intense demand for tickets that school policy prohibits the commercial use of its information systems.

In short, students can't send e-mails from their dorm rooms to advertise tickets for sale or put the tickets up for sale on Web auction sites, such as eBay.

"Virginia Tech is a public university, subsidized by taxpayers' money," said Jeff Cullen, director of judicial affairs. "It's not OK to use those taxpayer-subsidized facilities for personal profit."

The ticket scalping began immediately after Tech informed 3,200 students early Tuesday that they had won a school-sponsored lottery for a chance to buy one $85 ticket to the Jan. 4 game in New Orleans. About 14,500 students had entered the lottery for the available tickets. The winning students are to pick up their tickets Dec. 13-16.

Many, though, have no intention of going to the game and are instead looking to make a profit before leaving campus for the holidays.

Demand is high because students with tickets now are looking for more tickets for their friends and family members.

Travis Mabry, a 21-year-old Tech student from Kansas, said the prices being asked for the student tickets are "outrageous." But he really wants to see Tech take on Florida State, he said, so he may have to help his friends find marked-up tickets.

David Chambers, associate athletic director for external affairs at Tech, said no local ordinance prohibits ticket scalping, so the school can target only those scalpers using computers linked to the Web through Tech's phone lines. Deals that take place in dormitory hallways - or over computers off-campus - can't be stopped, he said.

"For the most part, there's not a lot you can do," said Chambers.

Given Tech's limited options, the threatening e-mail also makes an appeal to students' basic sense of right and wrong, Cullen said.

According to the warning, written by Cullen: "There are thousands of other true maroon and orange Hokie fans who are absolutely disgusted in the sense that they did not receive a ticket through the lottery and find it particularly galling that others would FOUND_BAD_CHARACTERsell out' their team spirit to the highest bidder. As an educator, I encourage every ticket recipient to consider for a moment the ethical implications of taking a ticket for $85 and reselling it for considerable profit .*.*.

"I urge you to consider that just because you have the right to do something doesn't mean doing it is right."

Yesterday on the Internet auction site eBay.com, several Tech students had tickets for sale. One student was asking $1,500 for four tickets, while another student had received a bid of $510 for two tickets.

Cullen said he doesn't know what effect his warning will have. He said he has received a couple of messages from "brazen" students who said they will keep trying to sell their tickets to the highest bidder.

"It's a time-honored tradition in this country," he said, "that if you sense an opportunity to make money, capitalism says you're entitled to take advantage of that opportunity."

DRAWING   

Document RCHD000020111212dvca00jfu




BUSINESS
IBM AGAIN WARNS OF LOWER PROFITS Y2K FEARS BLAMED FOR SLOW SALES 

JEFF BLISS, Bloomberg News 
411 words
10 December 1999
The Record
REC
English
© 1999 North Jersey Media Group Inc. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All rights reserved.  

IBM Corp. reiterated a forecast that fourth- and first-quarter earnings will be lower because of year 2000 concerns. 

The warning, given during a closed-door meeting with analysts Thursday, is similar to one the world's largest computer company made Oct. 20, when it said earnings will be crimped as customers delay purchases of mainframes because of Y2K concerns. 

"There had been fears things would be worse for Y2K," said Kurtis King, a Banc of America Securities analyst who began coverage of IBM on Friday with a "buy" rating. 

IBM officials said they expect spending for computer services and software to increase in the second half of next year, said James Berlino, an analyst with CIBC World Markets. 

IBM said in October that fourth-quarter profit will be 15 cents to 20 cents less than a year ago, while first-quarter profit will be unchanged or slightly lower. 

IBM invited only analysts and large investors to the meeting in New York, one of two the company holds each year. 

The exclusion means individual investors without access to research from large brokerages won't immediately be privy to the meeting's detailed discussions, which may result in significant moves in the company's stock price. 

Scheduled to speak at the meeting were Senior Vice President Bill Etherington, Chief Financial Officer John Joyce, and Sam Palmisano, who recently took over the company's server business. Other speakers include Doug Elix, head of IBM's Global Services unit, and Abby Kohnstamm, senior vice president for marketing. 

IBM's earlier warning about profit triggered a 15 percent decline in the company's stock price. The warning came as IBM reported that its third-quarter computer sales fell 1 percent and its PC business had a pretax loss of $69 million. 

Third-quarter revenue from servers, which run computer networks, fell 29.3 percent to $1.95 billion from $2.75 billion a year ago. IBM partially blamed lower-than-expected sales of AS/400 machines in Europe. 

In his speech, Palmisano said the server unit is "a work in progress," according to Banc of America Securities analyst King. 

In the past week, analysts have expressed more optimism about IBM. The Year 2000 issues won't linger too far into next year for IBM, King said. He expects IBM shares to reach 130 in the next 12 months.  

Document rec0000020010829dvca014qz




Abreast of the Market
 Blue-Chip Stocks Drop as Techs Stay Hot 

 By Robert O'Brien 
Dow Jones Newswires
642 words
8 December 1999
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
17
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 NEW YORK -- U.S. blue-chip stocks slid, hurt by further weakness in shares of Coca-Cola, but technology issues continued to post gains. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 1.1%, or 118.36 points, to 11106.65. Declining issues on the New York Stock Exchange outnumbered advancers 2,034 to 1,047, with 479 issues unchanged. But the tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite Index added 1.1%, or 40.40 points, to 3586.41. 

 Coca-Cola, which unnerved Wall Street Monday with the announcement of management changes at its top level, suffered another setback, dropping 3 15/16 to 60. Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette helped key the weakness Tuesday by lowering its investment rating on the stock. 

 Shares of Procter & Gamble fell 2 1/4 to 111 in New York Stock Exchange trading, as it pulled back from the highs notched last week. Other names in the consumer-products and pharmaceuticals sector also suffered setbacks. Bristol-Myers Squibb declined 2 9/16 to 66 7/8, Merck fell 2 3/8 to 73 1/16, and Johnson & Johnson retreated 2 13/16 to 93 11/16, all on the Big Board. The group's valuations had been stretched by big gains coming into December. 

 Banking stocks suffered a similar mix of declining technical performance and deterioration in fundamentals. U.S. Bancorp, waylaid Monday by its warning of upcoming profit shortfalls, declined again, falling 1 1/4 to 24 3/8, while Wells Fargo slid 1 9/16 to 44 3/16 and First Union dropped 1 1/8 to 35 13/16. 

 As recently as Friday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average seemed intent on overtaking the closing record that it set more than three months ago. But with the decline in Coca-Cola proving a significant drag, the blue-chip average retreated. 

 NYSE volume totaled 1,045,890,720 shares, compared with 906,571,620 Monday. The NYSE Composite Index fell 1%, or 6.58 points, to 635.08. The average price per share declined 44 cents. 

 By the close, Tuesday's session looked strikingly similar to Monday's. While the blue chips outside of technology were faltering, momentum-driven technology stocks were exulting. But underneath the big gains in Nasdaq's biggest names, a lot of tech issues weakened. 

 For the winners, the session offered some stunning highlights. Yahoo!, for example, followed up Monday's 11% gain with a gain of 23%, leaping 65 7/8 to 346 11/16 on Nasdaq. 

 Red Hat cruised 52 1/2 higher to 284 5/8, Commerce One gained 34 1/2 to 381, Triquent Semiconductor climbed 10 5/8 to 99 7/8, reaching a new high, and Juniper Networks increased 43 3/4 to 332 and a record, all on Nasdaq. 

 The Nasdaq Composite Index finished at another closing high. 

 But along with a host of stocks posting big gains, many technology issues retreated in what market watchers described as a bout of profit-taking. Among some Internet issues, NBC Internet fell 10 9/16 to 60 7/16, while Antec fell 9 9/16 to 40 1/4, and SDL shed 4 3/4 to 193 3/4, all on Nasdaq. 

 "Portfolio managers are locking in their gains for the year," said Peter Green, technical strategist at Gruntal. "Many of them have tremendous profits to book, and, consequently, they're locking in gains in some high-quality technology shares." 

 Texas Instruments, for example, fell 3 3/16 to 104 1/16 in NYSE trading. LSI Logic, which forged a 52-week high Monday, lost 2 7/8 to 68 3/8. Analog Devices, also coming off a 52-week best, finished 1 5/8 lower at 72 13/16. 

Document wsje000020010830dvc800lj9


 Europe should beware of losing to US in ecommerce 

 UK.com and Europe.com are here today, but European companies risk being over 
277 words
8 December 1999
Newswire (VNU)
VNUN
English
Copyright (c) 1999 VNU Business Publications Ltd.; Source: World Reporter (TM)

 UK.com and Europe.com are here today, but European companies risk being overshadowed by American.com arrivals if they don't wise up.This was the stark warning given by Paul Ellis, director of InterForum, to delegates at the Internet Business Show.Interforum, a non profit making organisation created to promote awareness and understanding of ebusiness, predicts that by 2003 western Europe will be spending $430 billion online. "Yet European executives still believe that the market will be run by American.com companies," he said. "Unless these European executives adopt a positive attitude to the Net now, they risk being dominatedon their own turf by the US."Ellis stressed how important it is for chief executives of large companies to work with the government to come up with sensibleInternet legislation to push Europe forward in ebusiness. 

  "If the EU is left toits own devices, it will create a bureaucratic nightmare," he said.Europe has to play on its advantages, primarily its experience of multiculture and multicurrency, its strong leadership in WAP-enabled telephones and the huge penetration of set-top boxes that is predicted - 29 million by the year 2003. European businesses have to have strategies in place to cope with the second Internet wave, Ellis said."In the post-Web era customer service will be the key profit driver," he said. "Competition will be fierce and from unexpected areas, while customer expectations will be high."Ellis maintains that it will be the companies that use multiple channels to market that will prosper. 

Document vnun000020010830dvc80027r




Abreast of the Market
 Blue Chips Slide in Uneven Session; Procter & Gamble, Merck Decline 

 By Robert O'Brien 
Dow Jones Newswires
1,383 words
8 December 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
C2
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 NEW YORK -- Blue-chip stocks tested the durability of their recent rally -- and failed -- but technology stocks mostly rose again in another mixed day on Wall Street. 

 Shares of Procter & Gamble fell 3 5/16 to 109 15/16 in New York Stock Exchange trading, as it pulled back from the highs notched last week. 

 Other names in the consumer-products/pharmaceuticals sector also suffered setbacks. Shares of Bristol-Myers Squibb lost 2 9/16 to 66 7/8 in NYSE trading, Merck fell 2 1/4 to 73 3/16 on the Big Board and Johnson & Johnson retreated 3 5/8 to 93 1/4. 

 While the group's valuations had been stretched by big gains coming into December, fundamental concerns also contributed to the nervousness in the sector. Coca-Cola, which unnerved Wall Street Monday with the announcement of management changes at its top level, suffered another setback, dropping 4 1/8 to 59 15/16. Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette helped key the weakness yesterday after the firm lowered its investment rating on the stock. 

 Banking stocks suffered a similar mix of declining technical performance and deterioration of fundamental features. U.S. Bancorp, waylaid Monday by its warning of coming profit shortfalls, declined again, falling 1 1/8 to 24 1/4, while Wells Fargo fell 1 3/8 to 44 1/16 and First Union lost 1 1/4 to 35 11/16. 

 As recently as Friday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average seemed intent on finally overtaking the closing record it set more than three months ago. But with the decline in Coca-Cola proving a costly drag, the industrial average instead fell 118.36 points, or 1.05%, to 11106.65. 

 By the close, yesterday's session looked so much like Monday's the two practically rhymed. While the blue chips outside of technology were faltering, momentum-driven technology stocks were exulting. But underneath the eye-popping gains in Nasdaq's biggest names, a lot of tech names weakened. 

 For the winners, the session offered some stunning highlights. Yahoo! followed up Monday's 11% gain with a gain of 24%, leaping 67 3/16 to 348 on Nasdaq. 

 Red Hat cruised 52 points higher to 284 1/8, Commerce One gained 34 1/2 to 381, Triquent Semiconductor climbed 10 5/8 to 99 7/8, reaching a new high, and Juniper Networks increased 43 3/4 to 332 and its new high, all on Nasdaq. 

 But along with a host of stocks posting big gains, many technology issues retreated in what market watchers described as a bout of profit-taking. Among some Internet names, NBC Internet fell 10 9/16 to 60 7/16, Antec fell 9 9/16 to 40 1/8 and SDL dropped 4 3/4 to 193 3/4, all on Nasdaq. 

 "Portfolio managers are locking in their gains for the year," said Peter Green, technical strategist at Gruntal. "Many of them have tremendous profits to book, and, consequently, they're locking in gains in some high-quality technology shares." 

 Texas Instruments lost 3 3/16 to 104 1/16 in NYSE trading. LSI Logic, which hit a 52-week high Monday, lost 3 to 68 1/4. Analog Devices, also coming off a 52-week high, fell 1 5/8 to 72 13/16. 

 Despite those losses, a host of high-technology bellwethers posted gains. 

 Cisco Systems advanced 3 1/4 to 101 1/2, extending its 52-week high, Intuit added 2 5/8 to 61 5/8, for its high this year, and PMC-Sierra rose 2 11/16 to 127 13/16, all on Nasdaq. 

 Shares of Gateway lost 4 3/8 to 66 3/4, as investors continued to reflect some worries about a possible hitch in the supply of Intel-made processors that could hurt the computer maker's chance of beating analysts' fourth-quarter profit forecasts. Intel (Nasdaq) declined 11/16 to 77 3/16. 

 Several computer and electronics retailers pulled back for, in some cases, a second straight session. Circuit City Stores declined 1 5/16 to 42 11/16 in NYSE trading, Tandy lost 2 3/4 to 75 3/4 and Best Buy fell 3/8 to 50 7/8. 

 Ciena rose 11 1/2 to 60 1/16 on Nasdaq, after SG Cowen said it expected an upbeat fourth-quarter profit statement, which comes out Friday. The moves came after signals the telecommunications equipment developer's new switching products fared well in tests. 

 Rival Tellabs also made progress, advancing 3 7/8 to 65 5/16 on Nasdaq. 

 Drugstore.com advanced 1 to 49 1/4 on Nasdaq. Salomon Brothers initiated coverage of the Bellevue, Wash., online consumer-products retailer, calling the company its top pick in the online retail area. 

 Barnesandnoble.com rose 7/8 to 18 7/8 on Nasdaq. Salomon started coverage of the online book retailer with an outperform rating, saying the stock's valuation should be higher. 

 InfoSpace.com climbed 24 11/16 to 173 11/16 on Nasdaq. The Redmond, Wash., provider of wireless Internet transactions and services, late Monday announced the acquisitions of Saraide, a provider of wireless Internet services abroad, and Prio, a maker of electronic-commerce software, for 5.1 million InfoSpace.com shares in total. PaineWebber boosted its price target on the stock to 265 from 150, citing the potential benefits of those transactions. 

 Ancor Communications rose 23 1/16 to 85 15/16 on Nasdaq. Intel said it invested $14.8 million in the Minnetonka, Minn., maker of fiber channel switches, as part of an agreement between the companies to develop and market switches based on a new architecture. 

 ASM Lithography advanced 6 5/16 to 106 1/2 on Nasdaq. The Dutch semiconductor equipment maker won a contract from a new customer, White Oak Semiconductor of the U.S. Merrill Lynch, in an upbeat note, said the company should continue to gain market share. 

 Visx dropped 36 1/8 to 52 on Nasdaq. The Santa Clara, Calif., developer of laser surgical equipment said an International Trade Commission judge ruled Monday that rival Nidek didn't violate provisions of trade law, allowing the rival to continue importing its vision-correction eye laser into the U.S. 

 H.J. Heinz rose 9/16 to 43 11/16. The Pittsburgh food marketer reported fiscal second-quarter profits that beat Wall Street's forecasts by a penny a share. 

 Mirage Resorts gained 1 to 14 9/16. Lehman Brothers raised its rating on the stock of the Las Vegas casino operator, saying it is boosting its earnings forecasts for the fourth quarter and next year. 

 Harrah's Entertainment added 1/2 to 26. Credit Suisse First Boston reiterated its strong buy rating on the Memphis, Tenn., casino operator, saying the stock's recent pullback was unwarranted. 

 MGM Grand, another Las Vegas casino operator, gained 2 1/8 to 49 3/4 along with the group. 

 Hasbro fell 3/16 to 21 1/4. The Pawtucket, R.I., toy maker unveiled plans to consolidate its manufacturing and product lines, though it added that fourth-quarter and full-year earnings should live up to Wall Street's forecasts. 

 AutoZone increased 1 3/4 to 29 11/16. The Memphis, Tenn., auto-supplies retailer reported fiscal first-quarter earnings late Monday that beat Wall Street's targets. Analysts at Prudential Securities and at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette raised their ratings on the stock. 

 Goodyear Tire & Rubber lost 1 1/16 to 30 5/16. Lehman Brothers lowered its fourth-quarter profit forecast on the Akron, Ohio, manufacturer. 

 Morgan Stanley rose 3 1/8 to 131 in NYSE trading. Sanford C. Bernstein raised its estimate for the securities firm's earnings. 

 MGIC Investment advanced 3 1/16 to 61 9/16. Goldman Sachs, which urged investors to overweight mortgage insurance stocks, boosted its rating on the Milwaukee mortgage insurer, and raised its earnings forecasts. 

 Other names in the group posted modest gains, including Radian Group, which added 7/16 to 47 7/8, and PMI Group, which rose 3/4 to 50 7/8. 

Document j000000020010828dvc800y3x




 N.Y. Stocks Mixed Again; Coke Drags DJIA;Techs Mostly Up 

 By Robert O'Brien 
1,469 words
7 December 1999
21:21
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Blue-chip stocks tested the durability of their recent rally - a test they failed - but technology stocks mostly rose again in another mixed day on Wall Street. 

 Shares of Procter & Gamble fell 2 1/4 to 111 in New York Stock Exchange trading, as it pulled back from the highs notched last week. 

 Other names in the consumer products/pharmaceuticals sector also suffered setbacks Tuesday. Shares of Bristol-Myers Squibb lost 2 9/16 to 66 7/8 in NYSE trading, Merck fell 2 3/8 to 73 1/16 on the Big Board, and Johnson & Johnson retreated 2 13/16 to 93 11/16. 

 While the group's valuations had been stretched by big gains coming into December, fundamental concerns also contributed to the nervousness in the sector. Shares of Coca-Cola, which unnerved Wall Street Monday with the announcement of management changes at its top level, suffered another setback, dropping 3 15/16 to 60. Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette helped key the weakness Tuesday after the firm lowered its investment rating on the stock. 

 Banking stocks suffered a similar mix of declining technical performance and deterioration fundamental features. U.S. Bancorp, waylaid Monday by its warning of upcoming profit shortfalls, declined again, falling 1 1/4 to 24 3/8, while Wells Fargo fell 1 9/16 to 44 3/16, and First Union lost 1 1/8 to 35 13/16. 

 As recently as Friday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average seemed intent on finally overtaking the closing record that it set more than three months ago. But with the decline in Coca-Cola proving a costly drag, the industrial average instead finished 117.14 points lower, a drop of 1.04%, to close at 11107.87. 

 The final Dow Jones Industrial Average close was 11106.65, down 118.36. On the New York Stock Exchange, there were 1,047 issues advancing, 2,034 declining and 479 unchanged. 

 NYSE volume totaled 1,045,890,720 shares, compared with 906,571,620 Monday. 

 The NYSE Composite Index was 635.08, down 6.58. The average price per share declined 44 cents. 

 For the winners, the session offered some stunning highlights. Yahoo!, for example, followed up Monday's 11% gain with a gain of 23%, leaping 65 7/8 to 346 11/16 on Nasdaq. 

 Red Hat cruised 52 1/2 points higher to 284 5/8, Commerce One gained 34 1/2 to 381, Triquent Semiconductor climbed 10 5/8  to 99 7/8, reaching a new high, and Juniper Networks increased 43 3/4 to 332 and its new high, all on the Nasdaq Stock Market. 

 The Nasdaq Composite Index finished the session 40.83 points to the better, an increase of 1.15%, to end at 3586.84, and another closing best. 

 But along with a host of stocks posting big gains, many technology issues retreated in what market watchers described as a bout of profit-taking. Among some Internet names, NBC Internet lost 10 9/16 to 60 7/16, while Antec fell 9 9/16 to 40 1/8, and SDL lost 4 3/4 to 193 3/4, all on Nasdaq. 

 "Portfolio managers are locking in their gains for the year," Peter Green, technical strategist at Gruntal, said Tuesday. "Many of them have tremendous profits to book, and, consequently, they're locking in gains in some high-quality technology shares." 

 Texas Instruments, for example, lost 3 3/16 to 104 1/16 in NYSE trading. LSI Logic, which forged a 52-week high Monday, lost 2 7/8 to 68 3/8. Analog Devices, also coming off a 52-week best, finished 1 5/8 lower at 72 13/16. 

 Those aside, though, a host of high-technology bellwethers posted gains that, pale by the standards of Internet technology issues, nevertheless represented continued success. 

 Cisco Systems advanced 3 1/4 to 101 1/2, extending its 52-week high, Intuit added 2 5/8 to 61 5/8, for its high this year, and PMC-Sierra moved up 2 11/16 to 127 13/16, all on Nasdaq. 

 Shares of Gateway lost 4 3/8 to 66 3/4, as investors continued to reflect some worries about a possible hitch in the supply of Intel-made processors could hurt the computer maker's chance of beating analysts' fourth-quarter profit forecasts. Intel declined 11/16 to 77 3/16. 

 Meanwhile, several computer and electronics retailers pulled back for, in some cases, a second straight session. Circuit City Stores declined 1 1/8 to 42 7/8 in NYSE trading, Tandy lost 2 3/4 to 75 3/4, and Best Buy fell 2 1/8 to 50 7/8. 

 Ciena moved up 11 1/2 to 60 1/16 on Nasdaq, after SG Cowen said that it expected what it called an upbeat fourth-quarter profit statement, which comes out Friday, after signals that the telecommunications equipment developer's new switching products has fared well in tests. 

 Rival Tellabs also made progress, advancing 3 7/8 to 65 5/16 on Nasdaq. 

 Drugstore.com advanced 1 to 49 1/4 on Nasdaq. Salomon Brothers initiated coverage of the Bellevue, Wash., online consumer products retailer, calling the company its top pick in the online retail area. 

 Barnesandnoble.com moved up 7/8 to 18 7/8 on Nasdaq. Salomon started coverage of the online book retailer with an outperform rating, saying the stock's valuation should be higher. 

 InfoSpace.com climbed 24 11/16 to 173 11/16 on Nasdaq. The Redmond, Wash., provider of wireless Internet transactions and services, late Monday announced the acquisitions of Saraide, a provider of wireless Internet services abroad, and Prio, a maker of e-commerce software, for 5.1 million InfoSpace.com shares in total. PaineWebber boosted its price target on the stock to 265 from 150, citing the potential benefits of those transactions. 

 Anchor Communications ascended 23 to 85 7/8 on Nasdaq. Intel said it invested $14.8 million in the Minnetonka, Minn., maker of fiber channel switches, as part of an agreement between the companies to develop and market switches based on a new architecture. 

 ASM Lithography moved ahead 6 5/16 to 106 1/2 on Nasdaq. The Dutch semiconductor equipment maker won a contract from a new customer, White Oak Semiconductor of the U.S. Merrill Lynch, in an upbeat note, said the company should continue to gain market share going forward. 

 Visx dropped 36 1/8 to 52 on Nasdaq. The Santa Clara, Calif., developer of laser surgical equipment said that an International Trade Commission judge ruled Monday that rival Nidek did not violate provisions of trade law, allowing the rival to continue importing its vision-correction eye laser into the U.S. 

 H.J. Heinz inched up 9/16 to 43 11/16. The Pittsburgh food marketer reported fiscal second-quarter profits that beat Wall Street's forecasts by a penny a share. 

 Mirage Resorts gained 1 to 14 9/16. Lehman Brothers raised its rating on the stock of the Las Vegas casino operator, saying it is boosting its earnings forecasts for the fourth quarter and next year. 

 Harrah's Entertainment added 1/2 to 26. Credit Suisse First Boston reiterated its strong buy rating on the Memphis casino operator, saying that the stock's recent pullback was unwarranted. 

 Shares of MGM Grand, another Las Vegas casino operator, gained 2 1/8 to 49 3/4 in sympathy with the group. 

 Hasbro fell 3/16 to 21 1/4. The Pawtucket, R.I., toy maker unveiled plans to consolidate its manufacturing and product lines, though it added that its fourth-quarter and full-year earnings should live up to Wall Street's forecasts. 

 AutoZone increased 1 3/4 to 29 11/16. The Memphis auto supplies retailer reported fiscal first-quarter earnings late Monday that beat Wall Street's targets. Analysts at Prudential Securities and at Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette raised their ratings on the stock. 

 Goodyear Tire & Rubber lost 1 1/16 to 30 5/16. Lehman Brothers lowered its fourth-quarter profit forecast on the Akron, Ohio, manufacturer. 

 Morgan Stanley moved up 4 to 131 5/8 in NYSE trading. Sanford C. Bernstein raised its estimate for the securities firm's earnings. 

 MGIC Investment advanced 3 1/16 to 61 9/16. Goldman Sachs, which urged investors to overweight mortgage insurance stocks, boosted its rating on the Milwaukee mortgage insurer, and raised its earnings forecasts. 

 Other names in the group posted modest gains, including Radian Group, which added 7/16 to 47 7/8, and PMI Group, which moved ahead 3/4 to 50 7/8. 

Document dj00000020010827dvc707lsg




COMPANY NEWS
 Business/Financial Desk; Section C 
 U.S. BANCORP STOCK FALLS AS IT ISSUES  PROFIT WARNING 

Bloomberg News
95 words
7 December 1999
The New York Times
NYTF
Page 4, Column 1
English
(c) 1999 New York Times Company

 U.S. Bancorp, Minnesota's largest bank, warned yesterday that its profit for the fourth quarter and next year would not meet expectations. The stock fell as much as 28 percent. The bank, which is based in Minneapolis, said fourth-quarter earnings would be 52 to 54 cents a share, shy of the average analyst estimate of 59 cents. The bank's stock fell $9.75, to $25.375, in trading of 12.1 million shares. 

Document nytf000020010828dvc701uta




 N.Y. Stocks End Mixed In Another Choppy Day For Techs 

 By Robert O'Brien 
1,384 words
6 December 1999
21:26
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- A wave of static descended on blue chips, stalling last week's rise, but technology stocks proved unstoppable once again. 

 Shares of Qualcomm advanced again, rising 10 5/16 to 394 3/4 on the Nasdaq Stock Market, while Broadcom gained 13 3/4 to 221 1/2, and SDL added 15/12 to 198 1/2, also on Nasdaq. Meanwhile, Yahoo!, slated to join the Standard & Poor's 500 Stock Index Tuesday, celebrated with a jump of 27 13/16 to 280 13/16 in what proved another volatile session for the new-technology sector. 

 Analysts said that fundamentals, as evidenced by continued profit growth and dimmed inflation, remained solidly supportive of the equities market, but that short-term thinking added a jolt of volatility to the day-to-day proceedings. 

 Yahoo! stands as a perfect demonstration. The news that investors celebrated to the tune of an 11% gain had been announced Nov. 30. 

 "We really don't get that much new information, certainly not enough to justify the volatility you see day-to-day," George Cohen of Cohen Klingenstein & Marks, said Monday. "But investors look at how the value of their holdings have increased, and they think, 'I guess I can stomach the volatility."' 

 Even over at the Dow Jones Industrial Average - a relatively staid market measure, compared with the Nasdaq Composite Index - some big swings took place in component stocks, even if the average itself didn't reflect that. The industrial average lost 61.17, or 0.55%, to end at 11225.01. 

 The final Dow Jones Industrial Average close was 11225.01, down 61.17. On the New York Stock Exchange, there were 1,107 issues advancing, 1,967 declining and 496 unchanged. 

 NYSE volume totaled 906,571,620 shares, compared with 984,619,720 Friday. 

 The NYSE Composite Index was 641.66, down 5.07. The average price per share fell 34 cents. 

 Underlying the relatively tame totals of the Dow industrial average, some component issues actually staged sharp moves. International Business Machines, continuing its rise of Friday, when shares added 6.3%, tacked on 4 to 116. 

 However, weakness in Coca-Cola offset that gain, as the stock of the beverage giant lost 4 1/4 to 63 15/16 after Douglas Ivester, the chairman and chief executive who took over two years ago, said he planned to step down in April. 

 Merrill Lynch said it chalked the sharp reaction in share price to what it called the unexpected nature of the upcoming departure, though it added that the company's fundamentals continue to improve. Morgan Stanley cut its rating on the stock. 

 Shares of AT&T staged a turbulent intraday performance, though it closed little changed, off 3/16 to 56 13/16. The telecommunications giant conducted an analysts meeting in New York at which company officials unveiled details of its operational plans going forward. Those plans are to include a wireless tracking stock that reflects the value of the company's wireless communications units. 

 Meanwhile, shares of MindSpring Enterprises advanced 3 11/16 to 36 on Nasdaq, after AT&T agreed to allow rival companies such as MindSpring to deliver high-speed Internet access over its cable lines. Excite@Home, which has an exclusive service-provision contract with AT&T that runs through 2002, finished 3 1/16 lower at 49 on Nasdaq. 

 MediaOne Group, the broadband communications concern that AT&T has agreed to purchase, gained 1 3/16 to 80 3/16. EarthLink, expected to merge with MindSpring in the first quarter of next year, increased 4 7/16 to 57 13/16 on Nasdaq. 

 The Nasdaq Composite Index ended the session up 25.38, a gain of 0.71%, to close at 3546.01, establishing another closing best. 

 Next Level Communications moved ahead 3 11/16 to 69 15/16 on Nasdaq. A host of Wall Street firms launched coverage of the Rohnert Park, Calif., communications systems concern, which made its public debut last month. 

 BEA Systems added 4 1/2 to 120 on Nasdaq, and reached a 52-week high in intraday trading. The Sunnyvale, Calif., transaction software developer reorganized its businesses into four electronic-commerce devisions, an undertaking some analysts had been anticipating. Credit Suisse First Boston reiterated its strong buy rating on the stock, which it had raised to that rating last week. 

 IXL Enterprises gained 1 to 38 3/4 on Nasdaq. The Atlanta Internet service concern agreed to an alliance that allows it to use BEA's line of electronic-commerce transaction services as a core technology. 

 LSI Logic gained 6 3/16 to 71 1/4. Warburg Dillon Read raised its 2000 earnings estimates on the stock of the Milpitas, Calif., integrated circuit maker, and increased its 12-month price target to 90 from 70. The stock traded at a 52-week high Monday. 

 Shares of Expedia lost ground in Monday's trading, falling 6 3/16 to 48 3/4 on Nasdaq, despite some encouraging comments from Wall Street analysts. Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley started coverage of the stock, which came public last month. 

 The declines came after Cheap Tickets, a Honolulu concern that sells discount airline tickets on the Internet, warned that it wouldn't live up to what Wall Street anticipated. The company said competition from airlines themselves, which are undertaking a discounting program, will prove a drag on its profits. That stock fell 5 13/16 to 12 1/2 on Nasdaq. 

 Shares of other ticket retailers ended mixed. Sabre Holdings, which operates Travelocity, fell 2 3/4 to 45, while Preview Travel posted a gain of 3 1/8 to 55 1/8 on Nasdaq. 

 C-Cube Microsystems added 4 to 49 1/4 on Nasdaq, following some optimistic comments from Lehman Brothers, which said that shares of the Milpitas, Calif., maker of communications chips and software are undervalued. 

 Atmel added 1 1/2 to 53 15/16 on Nasdaq, reaching another 52-week high. Warburg Dillon Read issued an upbeat report about the company, raising its 12-month price target on the stock to 80 from 55. 

 Nokia's American depositary shares increased 19 15/16 to 176 in primary NYSE trading Monday. Lehman Brothers raised its price target on the stock, saying that the company hosted what it called a highly positive meeting Friday with analysts in Dallas. 

 U.S. Bancorp fell 9 3/4 to 25 3/8. The Minneapolis banking concern warned Wall Street that it would miss earnings projections for the fourth quarter and 2000. Merrill Lynch, reacting to the profit warning, cut its rating on the stock to a neutral from an accumulate on a near-term basis. 

 Kroger fell 5 1/16 to 15 1/2. J.P. Morgan lowered its rating on the stock of the Cincinnati supermarket operator, after the company reported fiscal third-quarter earnings that matched Wall Street's target. In a report, J.P. Morgan criticized what it called the "low quality" of the profit performance. 

 Other supermarket operators lost ground, as well. Safeway fell 3 5/16 to 32 1/2, Albertson's, which sank last week on weaker-than-expected profits, eased 1/4 to 30 3/16, and SuperValu declined 1 1/4 to 17 3/4. 

 Rite Aid increased 3 5/8 to 11 7/8. The Camp Hill, Pa., drugstore chain announced a new management team headed by Robert G. Miller, Kroger's vice chairman, who will become chairman and chief executive of Rite Aid. 

 Continental Airlines lost 1 1/2 to 38 1/2. Salomon Smith Barney cut its rating on the Houston air carrier, citing the impact that rising fuel prices will have on 

 ICN Pharmaceuticals fell 3/4 to 23 15/16. A group of investors wants the Costa Mesa, Calif., drug maker said that it wants the company to sell or spin off some major assets in order to finance a stock repurchase, according to a regulatory filing Monday. 

 Four Seasons Hotel gained 2 15/16 to 53 3/16. PaineWebber raised its rating on the Toronto luxury hotel operator to attractive from neutral. 

Document dj00000020010827dvc607ks2




Senior shares nosedive after Pounds 16m shock from California  

CLIFF FELTHAM  
211 words
4 December 1999
Daily Mail
DAIM
1ST
67
English
(c) 1999  

SHARES in aircraft component supplier Senior nose-dived on a profit warning caused by accounting irregularities.  

The problem was uncovered at its California offshoot Ketema and could mean profits have been overstated by as much as Pounds 16m.  

'The managers were too busy growing sales to worry about bookkeeping,' said Senior chief executive Andrew Parrish.  

It is a massive blow to Senior, whose current-year profits are likely to be slashed by at least Pounds 7m to around Pounds 27m. The dividend is also in doubt.  

The shares, 245p in 1998, slumped 21 1 /2 p to 70p, valuing it at Pounds 214m.  

Parrish, in addition to ordering cost cuts at Ketema, is considering 'strategic options' for the group shorthand for hoisting the white flag and inviting a takeover.  

Senior is no stranger to bid rumours. There has been growing speculation that its bargain-basement share price could attract a takeover from aerospace rivals Cob-ham or Rolls-Royce.  

The Ketema setback was picked up after new computer systems were installed.  

Accountants found stock levels had been consistently overvalued.  

Profits from a major contract were included before the work was completed.  

951124023

COMPONENTS FROM SENIOR HELP KEEP AIRBUS FLYING HIGH  

Document DAIM000020060408dvc400lam




COMPANY NEWS
 Business/Financial Desk; Section C 
 SHARES OF BAKER HUGHES FALL 7.5% AFTER  PROFIT WARNING 

Bloomberg News
126 words
3 December 1999
The New York Times
NYTF
Page 4, Column 1
English
(c) 1999 New York Times Company

 The shares of Baker Hughes Inc., the No. 3 United States oil field company, fell 7.5 percent yesterday, a day after it warned it might have a small fourth-quarter loss because of lagging demand for some services. The company also said it had taken a $130 million pretax charge related to its seismic business, which uses sound waves to map geological formations. Its shares fell $2, to $24.50. Analysts surveyed by the First Call Corporation had expected Baker to earn 4 cents a share. The company earned 3 cents in the third quarter. Baker did not specify how big a loss it could report. 

Document nytf000020010828dvc301vok

Search Summary

 Text((“profit*” same “warning*”) or ("disappoint*" same "result*") or ("decreas*" same "profit*") or ("compan*" same "downturn*") or ("unexpect*" same "loss*"))   Date12/01/1999 to 12/31/1999   SourceAll Sources   AuthorAll Authors   CompanyAll Companies   Subject Not Corporate/Industrial News   IndustryAll Industries   RegionUnited States   LanguageEnglish   Results Found43   Timestamp28 March 2018 15:20  
 Page 72 of 72     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

