 
•	 Millennium Folly; Governments could learn a thing or two from the market's creative destruction.
•	 Millennium flashback... or fast forward?; It's the REAL dawn of a new age
•	 Loonie makes strong move  
•	  Millennium Folly  
•	  U.S. stocks set for weak open, IBM drags on sentiment. 
•	  U.S. stocks set for weak start, IBM weighs on mood. 
•	 Battles ahead for Nortel; 2001 could be even tougher on stock values  
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	  Nightly Business Report 
•	  US STKS SURGE AS DOW LEADS - LOUSY YEAR CLOSES, BUT JAN LOOMS. 
•	 Nortel braces for a bumpy ride; "Roth and everybody have a challenging year ahead. The year to come could be even worse, from an investor or...
•	 Newscast: Stock report   
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	  Family jewels --- Greenspan's advice sought on California power crisis 
•	  Potential landmines ahead. 
•	  MARKET TALK: March S&Ps Turn Positive 
•	  MARKET TALK: From Tiny Things May Big Genencor Pfts Grow 
•	  MARKET TALK: Late Short Squeeze Seen In Stock Futures 
•	  MARKET TALK: As Goes La-Z-Boy ... ? 
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	  How the markets moved - The year is ending with a whimper. 
•	  US surge sidesteps Australia. 
•	  INVESTORS LICK WOUNDS AMID FRAGILE RECOVERY BY RAY HEATH... 
•	  Telecom firms warn amid industry upheaval. 
•	 BUSINESS UPDATE
•	 Newscast: Market numbers   
•	  Frankfurt stocks have miserable pre-Christmas week 
•	  WARNING OF SLOWDOWN IN THE US DAMPENS INVESTOR CHRISTMAS CHEER. 
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	 This is the season for selling
•	  Sell-offs scare market. 
•	  Us spending surveys hit share prices. 
•	  Glimmers of festive hope fail to light up December gloom of US profits warnings. 
•	  Global Economies Strike Discordant Note of Late --- Growth Rates Have Been Declining in Concert 
•	  SMARTMONEY.COM: Pain On Main Street 
•	  ANALYSIS - U.S. economists on recession watch. 
•	  POLL-European funds return home in Dec as U.S. sputters. 
•	 US giant's alert puts BT on three-year low; MARKET REPORT  
•	 US giant's alert puts BT on three-year low; MARKET REPORT  
•	  Sinking in Sync: The Global Slowdown Surprises Economists And Many Companies --- As Engines Around the World Sputter, U.S. Firms Feel...
•	  Australian stock market battered 
•	 Newscast: Overseas markets reacting negatively to Wall Street's downturn   
•	 Net firm tumbles on  profit warning
•	  US giant's alert puts. 
•	  Market begs for relief: Interest rates: 'Every day the Fed waits, the odds of a recession increase' 
•	 ON24 Audio Investor Alert: Lucent Issues  Profit Warning
•	  U.S. stocks set for ugly start, slowdown fuels profit angst. 
•	  Fund managers seek safe havens in U.S. stock minefield. 
•	 Foundry Networks shares tumble after  profit warning .
•	  Fed recession fear. 
•	  European Shares Ignore Time Warner Warning --- Optimism on U.S. Interest Rates Helps Markets --- Media and Telecommunications Stocks Seesaw   
•	  MARKET TALK: ING Says Worsening Legacy Mkt To Hit Nortel 
•	  MARKET TALK: Gold Eyes $275/Oz, Where Sellers May Enter 
•	  MARKET TALK: March S&Ps Off Lows, But Act Skittish 
•	  MARKET TALK: Feb. Crude Moves Sharply Lower 
•	  MARKET TALK: Each Day Without Ease Brings Recession Closer 
•	  MARKET TALK: Talk Heats Up For 50BP Cut In January 
•	  MARKET TALK: Is SEC Head Levitt Ready To Leave It? 
•	  MARKET TALK: Latin American Dot-Coms Don't Escape Selling 
•	  MARKET TALK: Merrill Says Retail Bottom May Be Near 
•	  MARKET TALK: Trader Sees March S&Ps Heading Lower 
•	  MARKET TALK: Tobacco Names Are Smokin' This Year 
•	  MARKET TALK: Still Too Early For Big Refi Push 
•	  MARKET TALK: Cellular Junk Takes Early Hit 
•	  MARKET TALK: Worst Over At Conseco, But Still Concerns 
•	  MARKET TALK: Is Worst Over In Chemical Stocks? 
•	  London Letter. 
•	  US STOCKS DROP DESPITE FED BIAS SHIFT - WHISPERS SAID 'CUT'. 
•	 Chesapeake, Va.-Based Discount Retailer Issues  Profit Warning
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	  News Highlights:Conseco Net Before Item Of $1.18-$1.38/Shr 
•	  News Highlights:Conseco Net Before Item Of $1.18-$1.38/Shr 
•	  Bourses may turn bearish. 
•	  TECH STOCKS SUFFER IN HOLIDAY COUNTDOWN. 
•	  TOP STORIES FROM EUROPE, ASIA MONDAY, FROM THE US FRIDAY. 
•	  TOP STORIES FROM ASIA MONDAY, FROM THE US AND EUROPE FRIDAY. 
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	 Asia hit by US tech stock fall-off
•	 You're just in time for the recession, George - Opinion. [CORRECTED 29/12/00]
•	  Talking Stocks 
•	  Expect cut early next year to revive rapidly slowing economy. 
•	  FFBN Financials Wrap: Brokers, Banks Again Close Lower 
•	  US bond markets - Stock outflow succours treasuries. 
•	 International FiberCom Shares Tumble Amid 4th-Quarter  Profit Warning
•	  YOUR MONEY Cyclical Realities: Wall St. Grapples With the Downside 
•	  How the Markets Moved - Microsoft warning drags down Dow. 
•	  Market set for shake-up. 
•	  City & Business - Dubya trouble for world economy. 
•	  TOP STORIES FROM THE US, EUROPE AND ASIA FRIDAY. 
•	  Bush honeymoon with Wall Street is short-lived 
•	 America's financial markets can now stop blaming the electoral impasse for their woes, and start ...
•	  US dip puts All Ords on tenterhooks. 
•	  Microsoft warning sends TMTs further down. 
•	  Wall Street Stocks Continue Falling on Profit Warnings. 
•	  US STOCKS SHARPLY LOWER - MICROSOFT WARNS - HP, SUN DOWNGRADED. 
•	  European currencies in demand, dlr and yen decline. 
•	  Yen on defensive, European currencies in vogue. 
•	  Top tech stocks at year lows, weakness seen spreading. 



Opinion Journal; Featured Article
Millennium Folly; Governments could learn a thing or two from the market's creative destruction.

916 words
31 December 2000
04:01
The Wall Street Journal (Online and Print)
WSJO
English
Copyright 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

Last year, the scolds and nitpickers relentlessly reminded the world's revelers that the millennium wouldn't start till a year from January 1, 2000. Still, the merriment proceeded, perhaps proving that you can divide all of humankind into one camp that tends to count its chickens before they're hatched, and the people prone to warning about popular folly (and occasionally turning a profit on it).

At this newspaper's editorial page we write about politics and markets, both of which are prone to folly. While celebrating the millennium on the wrong day is harmless enough, financial and political folly can do damage to many people. What we'd like to consider in these moments before commencing the millennium is how adequately financial markets and politics respectively recognize their mistakes and act to repair what they've ruined.

Our impression is that the markets have kept up, but that governments have not.

In markets, the last big event of the ending millennium was the meltdown of the dot-com revolution. The dot-com hatchery outputted many fewer live chickens than a whole lot of investors and entrepreneurs had counted on. How so many smart people could have ended up with so much egg on their faces is a tale some future historian of economic folly with the skills of a Charles Kindleberger will have to explain. For now, we'll settle for the simple thesis offered by a Manhattan-based VC genius for the submersion of his portfolio of dot-com IPOs: "We got caught up in . . . the sense of greed."

Still, for all the capital, careers and dreams that got extinguished in the dot-com fireball, no one should doubt that its principals learned a lot about their new industry, and that the next round of technology-driven dreams will build on what went before, will attract capital and that ultimately there will be winners who validate the original insight about the Internet's information-crunching potential.

This of course is what the economic wise man Joseph Schumpeter called creative destruction. Freely functioning markets, for all their imperfections, seem to have inside their genetic code the ability to restore themselves and do so at the millennium's dawn more quickly than ever before. Put differently, when millions of people can vote with their wallets, there are no dimpled chads.

When, oh, when will governments learn creative destruction? The dot-com revolution, whose power was such that it transfixed a nation, flew to the sky and fell to earth in, what, maybe 24 months? By harrowing comparison, the mechanism of adjustment and correction for the U.S. welfare system took 30 or 40 years.

How or why does a system of government, even one as ponderous as ours, need to live through three generations or more of welfare mothers until it admits a mistake has been made? But even the welfare correction seems an anomaly, a fluke. How else to explain the reality that government allows many tens of thousands of black children to show up one more day, not to mention 30 years of days, in schools that aren't schools, that in many urban neighborhoods are antischools? We know why the children don't learn, but the government is run by adults.

We are not antigovernment. A government that is good ensures that you won't have to descend into the hell of a Grozny or Sarajevo. Government's original purpose was, and remains, to let us reside a few floors above the state of nature. Indeed, Baghdad aside, probably the closest thing to a global New Year's resolution on this millennium's eve is that most of humankind would as soon not repeat the 20th century's worst failures of governance. Certainly the Poles, Czechs, Congolese and Chinese would agree with that.

What the world's peoples appear to want just now is the opportunity to access the modern wonders so celebrated at this time last year--electronic rivers of information, the conquering of the genome frontier, rising prosperity and the mutual benefits of a free world trading system.

Still, much as we esteem modern markets for their ability to deliver these wonders to the world, we recognize the necessity and benefit of operating within the framework of an organized politics, that is, with government. We hope, however, as the next thousand years creep into view, that its public men and women, entrusted with the great powers of government, show more courage than they have these recent 100 years to stop government when government goes wrong. When government does great damage, as it is doing this very hour for the poorest schoolchildren in America, we hope that in the years ahead it will get down off its high horse and admit as much.

A cynic, looking back across a thousand years, across democrats, kings and emperors, might reply that bouts of destructive hubris is the price we pay for letting mere mortals govern the rest of us. Maybe so. But institutions, whether private markets or public governments, survive day to day only so long as people have confidence in them. Confidence in 21st-century government, we submit, will come not merely from promising to deliver goodness all around, but as with the dot-com market, knowing when to fold up the dream, and start over.

http://www.opinionjournal.com/editorial/?id=80000395

Document WSJO000020100828dwcv004yg




JCrossroads
Millennium flashback... or fast forward?; It's the REAL dawn of a new age

HOWARD KLEINBERG   
696 words
31 December 2000
The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel
MLWK
All
01
English
Copyright 2000, The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

Are we getting ready for the start of the millennium? It begins tomorrow. Isn't that what we were being told by so many at this time last year when the world was readying to welcome a millennium then?

The people saying it were citing something mathematical about the year One really being the year Zero, then Two being One and all the way to 2001, which would be the start of the two-thousandth year and, only then, the third millennium.

And so here we are, on the brink of 2001 and nobody's talking about a millennium. Likely, it's because the 2000 millennium was such a bust.

For openers, and as you no doubt are aware, the world did not come to an end; it only seems like it. Also, the computers did not crash; Y2K was into and out of our lexicon quite quickly. Neither did the world's commercial flights fall from the skies on Jan. 1, 2000, although many canceled reservations in anticipation of such a calamity.

For closers, there was academic and literal awareness that the entire millennium emanation was artificial, in that Pope Gregory XIII tampered with the calendar we live by in 1582, and the start of the millennium was on an altogether different date.

With the singular exception of an enthusiastic planet-wide celebration at the stroke of midnight Dec. 31, 1999 (or was it midnight Jan. 1, 2000?), this millennium year fell so short of its potential as to have plunged into a black hole somewhere in the universe.

Entrepreneurs who would have liked to persist that the Third Millennium begins at the start of this next year likely learned a great financial lesson from last year's observance. Despite all the hyperbole, a millennium celebration is not necessarily the highway to overnight riches.

Too many venues took a financial beating on Third Millennium I; they certainly are not interested in repeating it as Third Millennium II.

Accentuating that would be the Millennium Dome in Greenwich, England, built for $1.2 billion at the expense of the British taxpayers, which -- last I read -- was seen as such a flop that there was talk of demolishing it and replacing it with something more functional, such as pasture land. Expecting 12 million visitors, the number is more like half that, with little prospect for improvement.

To any expecting to profit by a mathematically technical millennium celebration at the start of 2001, the warning signals were clear and early. Prices were bloated so artificially for Third Millennium I that people were scared off. In particular was a show in New York City to star, on the same stage, Aretha Franklin, Andrea Bocelli, Sting, Enrique Iglesias and Tom Jones. With tickets priced between $1,000 and $2,000, advance sales went begging. So poor were they that the show was canceled.

The truth about Third Millennium I: Most of us stayed home and watched it on television. We didn't want to pay exorbitant prices just to wear a party hat, sip lifeless champagne and cram elbow-to-elbow into some small, smoky hall. So we sat home with the family, watched the commemorative, if unmathematical, hour course the world, time zone by time zone, and sacked out at a reasonable hour.

It was because of this reality that I believe we are not hearing anything from night club owners, commemorative sweat shirt salesmen and TV networks about a millennium coming due soon.

Somewhere, I am certain, eccentrics will gather on a beach New Year's Eve to await the end of civilization once again, and some party group, having had a lot of liquid and prurient fun celebrating Third Millennium I, will opt to do it all over again for Third Millennium II.

But overall, don't look for much other than the routine New Year's Eve parties, complete with that old Scottish song with lyrics that, like millennium observances, make no sense at all.

------------

Howard Kleinberg, a former editor of the Miami News, is a columnist for Cox Newspapers.

Document MLWK000020100320dwcv00z89




Business
Loonie makes strong move  

Paula Arab  
The Canadian Press
656 words
29 December 2000
The Hamilton Spectator
HMSP
Final
C01
English
Copyright (c) 2000 The Hamilton Spectator.  

Toronto -- The dollar rose 0.49 of a U.S. cent, closing at 66.64 cents US, its highest point since mid-October and its biggest single-day gain in three weeks.  

"The Canadian dollar had a very strong move, very impressive," said Katherine Beattie, senior technical analyst at Standard & Poor's MMS in Toronto.  

Meanwhile, North American markets rose in light trading, with Canada's largest stock exchange closing a fraction of a percentage point higher. The TSE 300 composite index was up 18.98 points at 8,876.09.  

On Wall Street, the Dow Jones industrial average climbed 65.6 points to 10,868.76. The Nasdaq composite index rose 18.41 to 2,557.76 and the Standard & Poor's 500 index was up 5.3 to 1,334.22.  

The western-based Canadian Venture exchange gained 18.94 points at 2,799.92.  

Concern over a hard landing in the American economy has led to the U.S. dollar falling out of favour, said Steve Butler, director of foreign exchange trading at Scotia Capital Markets.  

As a result, the Canadian currency has "been on a reasonable uptrend for the last few sessions."  

While the loonie also had a strong run during the last week of 1999, closing the year at 69.29 cents US, Beattie expects its strength will be sustained in 2001 because "there's no reason" for the Bank of Canada to follow the Fed lead in lowering interest rates.  

Should rates remain steady in Canada, a move by the Fed early in the year could narrow the disparity between the Canadian and U.S. interest rates, which Beattie said will help the loonie.  

"We've got a strong Canadian economy and then there are people who are worried that the U.S. economy is slowing. That's another positive for the Canadian dollar."  

On the TSE, 11 of 14 groups rose. The paper and forest products group was the biggest gainer while industrial products were the biggest decliner.  

Advancers outnumbered decliners 672 to 352 with 223 unchanged in trading of 101 million shares worth $22.63 billion. The TSE 100 rose 0.35 of a point at 548.16.  

Sierra Wireless, which makes wireless hardware and software, had a bad day after issuing a profit warning a day earlier. Shares in the British Columbia-based technology company dropped $9 to close at $71 after Sierra said its results next year won't meet market expectations.  

Among the most active industrials, Manulife Financial rose $2.25 to $47.50; Agrium was up $1 to close at $20.50. Nortel Networks slipped $1.75 to $47.50.  

In the mining sector, Teck Class B shares gained 60 cents to $13.65; Placer Dome lost 45 cents at $14.60 and Barrick Gold closed down 27 cents at $24.65.  

Among the most active oils, Berkley Petroleum, a Calgary-based oil and gas exploration and development company that's the subject of a Hunt Oil takeover bid, fell 15 cents to $11.10. Gulf Canada Resources rose 10 cents to $7.50 and Methanex was up 45 cents to $9.45.  

In New York, investors contemplated earnings, the economy, their taxes and waning consumer confidence. Bargain hunting led to solid gains in the Dow industrials, up for the fifth consecutive session. But investors waffled when it came to technology.  

Dell Computer and IBM suffered in the early going on news that Prudential Securities lowered fourth-quarter estimates for the two computer makers. Dell was off six cents to finish at $17.94 US, while IBM fluctuated, managing to gain 56 cents at $85.25.  

Blue-chip sectors were again viewed as safer bets during a moderating economy and bearish market. Drug maker Merck rose $2.06 to $94.75 US and health insurer Humana advanced 44 cents to $15.38.  

Document HMSP000020051121dwct001dd




REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)
 Millennium Folly  

896 words
29 December 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
A16
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)  

 Last year, the scolds and nitpickers relentlessly reminded the world's revelers that the millennium wouldn't start til a year from January 1, 2000. Still, the merriment proceeded, perhaps proving that you can divide all of humankind into one camp that tends to count its chickens before they're hatched, and the people prone to warning about popular folly (and occasionally turning a profit on it).  

 At this newspaper's editorial page we write about politics and markets, both of which are prone to folly. While celebrating the millennium on the wrong day is harmless enough, financial and political folly can do damage to many people. What we'd like to consider in these moments before commencing the millennium is how adequately financial markets and politics respectively recognize their mistakes and act to repair what they've ruined.  

 Our impression is that the markets have kept up, but that governments have not.  

 In markets, the last big event of the ending millennium was the meltdown of the dot-com revolution. The dot-com hatchery outputted many fewer live chickens than a whole lot of investors and entrepreneurs had counted on. How so many smart people could have ended up with so much egg on their faces is a tale some future historian of economic folly with the skills of a Charles Kindleberger will have to explain. For now, we'll settle for the simple thesis offered by a Manhattan-based VC genius for the submersion of his portfolio of dot-com IPOs: "We got caught up in . . . the sense of greed."  

 Still, for all the capital, careers and dreams that got extinguished in the dot-com fireball, no one should doubt that its principals learned a lot about their new industry, and that the next round of technology-driven dreams will build on what went before, will attract capital and that ultimately there will be winners who validate the original insight about the Internet's information-crunching potential.  

 This of course is what the economic wise man Joseph Schumpeter called creative destruction. Freely functioning markets, for all their imperfections, seem to have inside their genetic code the ability to restore themselves and do so at the millennium's dawn more quickly than ever before. Put differently, when millions of people can vote with their wallets, there are no dimpled chads.  

 When, oh, when will governments learn creative destruction? The dot-com revolution, whose power was such that it transfixed a nation, flew to the sky and fell to earth in, what, maybe 24 months? By harrowing comparison, the mechanism of adjustment and correction for the U.S. welfare system took 30 or 40 years.  

 How or why does a system of government, even one as ponderous as ours, need to live through three generations or more of welfare mothers until it admits a mistake has been made? But even the welfare correction seems an anomaly, a fluke. How else to explain the reality that government allows many tens of thousands of black children to show up one more day, not to mention 30 years of days, in schools that aren't schools, that in many urban neighborhoods are antischools? We know why the children don't learn, but the government is run by adults.  

 We are not antigovernment. A government that is good ensures that you won't have to descend into the hell of a Grozny or Sarajevo. Government's original purpose was, and remains, to let us reside a few floors above the state of nature. Indeed, Baghdad aside, probably the closest thing to a global New Year's resolution on this millennium's eve is that most of humankind would as soon not repeat the 20th century's worst failures of governance. Certainly the Poles, Czechs, Congolese and Chinese would agree with that.  

 What the world's peoples appear to want just now is the opportunity to access the modern wonders so celebrated at this time last year -- electronic rivers of information, the conquering of the genome frontier, rising prosperity and the mutual benefits of a free world trading system.  

 Still, much as we esteem modern markets for their ability to deliver these wonders to the world, we recognize the necessity and benefit of operating within the framework of an organized politics, that is, with government. We hope, however, as the next thousand years creep into view, that its public men and women, entrusted with the great powers of government, show more courage than they have these recent 100 years to stop government when government goes wrong. When government does great damage, as it is doing this very hour for the poorest schoolchildren in America, we hope that in the years ahead it will get down off its high horse and admit as much.  

 A cynic, looking back across a thousand years, across democrats, kings and emperors, might reply that bouts of destructive hubris is the price we pay for letting mere mortals govern the rest of us. Maybe so. But institutions, whether private markets or public governments, survive day to day only so long as people have confidence in them. Confidence in 21st century government, we submit, will come not merely from promising to deliver goodness all around, but as with the dot-com market, knowing when to fold up the dream, and start over.  

Document j000000020010807dwct00wuj




 U.S. stocks set for weak open, IBM drags on sentiment. 

 By Denise Duclaux 
624 words
28 December 2000
14:06
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 28 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks were poised for a weak opening on Thursday as investors are expected to pocket profits and a top Wall Street firm cut its revenue outlook for International Business Machines Corp. 

 Prudential Securities trimmed its revenue projection for the computer bellwether for the fourth quarter to $24.5 billion from $25.3 billion. The Dow component's share price dropped to $82-1/4 in premarket trading from a close of $84-11/16 on Wednesday on the New York Stock Exchange. 

Profit warnings kept market sentiment bearish. The nation's largest railroad, Union Pacific Corp., after the opening bell on Wednesday joined marquee names like Intel Corp., General Motors Corp. and Eastman Kodak Co. in warning results will disappoint investors amid an economic slowdown. 

 With less than an hour to go before the opening bell, the Nasdaq 100 pre-market indicator, a measure of Nasdaq's 100 largest stocks, shed 0.72 percent. Standard & Poor's 500 Index futures had lost 5.50 points to 1,345.00. Dow Jones industrial average futures had fallen 40 points to 10,930. 

 "The averages are going to open lower," said Prudential Securities analyst Larry Wachtel. "We have a struggle here to put together two back-to-back days of gains. There is a tendency to sell into strength. There is no catalyst." 

 Investors are betting the U.S. Federal Reserve will slash interest rates as a slowing economy casts a cloud on corporate profits, consumer confidence and the stock market. Some are hoping a rate cut could come before the central bank's next monetary policy meeting on Jan. 31. 

 How consumer confidence is holding up amid talk of corporate layoffs and rumblings about the possibility of recession will grab investors' attention on Thursday. 

 And since a major contributor to consumer confidence is perceptions about job security and employment prospects, analysts said, investors will also eye the Labor Department's weekly report on new and continuing claims for unemployment insurance. 

 Initial U.S. claims fell a steep 23,000 in the latest week, the government said, but it cautioned against reading too much into the weekly figure saying 18 states had estimated their data. 

 First-time claims for state unemployment benefits dropped to 333,000 in the week ended Dec. 23 from a revised 356,000 in the prior week, the Labor Department said. The latest figure was well below the Wall Street forecast for a drop to 351,000. 

 The Conference Board's report on consumer confidence is scheduled for 10 a.m. (1500 GMT). 

 Economists polled by Reuters estimated, on average, that the Conference Board's consumer confidence measure fell to 128.7 in December from 133.5 in November. Their average estimate of new jobless claims in the week ended Dec. 23 was 351,000, versus 354,000 in the previous week. 

 Trading activity was expected to be light as market players take time out from the office and enjoy the days between the Christmas holiday and New Year's Eve. 

 Stocks rose on Wednesday as investors put aside worries about worsening profits and bought post-holiday bargains among beleaguered high-tech, retail and consumer shares. 

 The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite index rose 45.83 points, or 1.84 percent, to 2,539.35, after getting off to a weak start. 

 The blue chip Dow Jones industrial average gained 110.72 points, or 1.04 percent, at 10,803.16, its fourth close in a row in the black. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index was up 13.9 points, or 1.06 percent, at 1,329.09. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcs08xxq




 U.S. stocks set for weak start, IBM weighs on mood. 

 ( By Denise Duclaux 
571 words
28 December 2000
13:52
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 28 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks were poised for a weak opening on Thursday as investors are expected to pocket profits and a top Wall Street firm cut its revenue outlook for International Business Machines Corp. 

 Prudential Securities trimmed its revenue projection for the computer bellwether for the fourth quarter to $24.5 billion from $25.3 billion. The Dow component's share price dropped to $82-1/4 in premarket trading from a close of $84-11/16 on Wednesday on the New York Stock Exchange. 

Profit warnings kept market sentiment bearish. The nation's largest railroad, Union Pacific Corp., after the opening bell on Wednesday joined marquee names like Intel Corp. , General Motors Corp. and Eastman Kodak Co. in warning results will disappoint investors amid an economic slowdown. 

 With more than an hour to go before the opening bell, the Nasdaq 100 index futures had shed 34.00 points to 2,472.50. Standard & Poor's 500 Index futures had lost 6.50 points to 1,344.00. Dow Jones industrial average futures had fallen 60 points to 10,910. 

 "The averages are going to open lower," said Prudential Securities analyst Larry Wachtel. "We have a struggle here to put together two back-to-back days of gains. There is a tendency to sell into strength. There is no catalyst." 

 Investors are betting the U.S. Federal Reserve will slash interest rates as a slowing economy casts a cloud on corporate profits, consumer confidence and the stock market. Some are hoping a rate cut could come before the central bank's next monetary policy meeting on Jan. 31. 

 How consumer confidence is holding up amid talk of corporate layoffs and rumblings about the possibility of recession will grab investors' attention on Thursday. 

 And since a major contributor to consumer confidence is perceptions about job security and employment prospects, analysts said, the Labor Department's weekly report on new and continuing claims for unemployment insurance could also grab the market's attention. 

 U.S. jobless claims fell in the latest week to 333,000 from a revised 356,000 the prior week, the Labor Department reported before the market opened. 

 The Conference Board's report on consumer confidence is scheduled for 10 a.m. (1500 GMT). 

 Economists polled by Reuters estimated, on average, that the Conference Board's consumer confidence measure fell to 128.7 in December from 133.5 in November. Their average estimate of new jobless claims in the week ended Dec. 23 was 351,000, versus 354,000 in the previous week. 

 Trading activity was expected to be light as market players take time out from the office and enjoy the days between the Christmas holiday and New Year's Eve. 

 Stocks rose on Wednesday as investors put aside worries about worsening profits and bought post-holiday bargains among beleaguered high-tech, retail and consumer shares. 

 The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite index rose 45.83 points, or 1.84 percent, to 2,539.35, after getting off to a weak start. 

 The blue chip Dow Jones industrial average gained 110.72 points, or 1.04 percent, at 10,803.16, its fourth close in a row in the black. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index was up 13.9 points, or 1.06 percent, at 1,329.09. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcs08xxa




Business
Battles ahead for Nortel; 2001 could be even tougher on stock values  

Gillian Livingston  
The Canadian Press
1,048 words
28 December 2000
The Hamilton Spectator
HMSP
Final
C02
English
Copyright (c) 2000 The Hamilton Spectator.  

Toronto -- Nortel's stock price -- adjusted for a mid-2000 stock split -- was at $72.93 at the end of last year, and now hovers in the $50 range on the Toronto Stock Exchange. That's a loss of about $54 billion in market value -- no chump change.  

Still, some analysts are saying the fibre-optics giant's stock still has further to drop -- to perhaps $25 or $15.  

Others suggest Nortel rival Cisco Systems will be the first in the new year to get hit by edgy investors.  

Nortel executives have put aside stock valuations and emphasized in the past few months that their outlook for the coming year is positive.  

"Looking forward to 2001, we continue to expect the overall market to grow in excess of 20 per cent," said chief executive John Roth.  

"Given our strong market position and leadership in high-performance Internet solutions, we continue to expect to grow significantly faster than the market, with anticipated growth in revenues and earnings per share from operations in the 30 to 35 per cent range," Roth said.  

While Roth puts forward a rosy view, analysts are taking a hard look at how much money global telecom companies have left to spend on infrastructure as financial markets tighten and bankers worry about money loaned for telecom projects.  

Telecom analyst Lawrence Surtees predicts a challenging year.  

"The year to come could be even worse, from an investor and stock perspective," said the IDC Canada analyst.  

Chahram Bolouri, Nortel's president of global operations, says the company's core businesses are strong, adding "we can't manage the stock market."  

Nortel's year on the stock markets was a wild ride. Its high-priced stock helped fuel an ambitious acquisition program, paid for with shares, that boosted revenues and added valuable new technology.  

But the declining share price could curtail the pace of acquisitions in an industry where having the newest and best technology is vital to survival.  

Nortel's first stock blow came in October when it announced third-quarter results that showed disappointing revenues and a strong operating profit. That led an investor exodus.  

The reaction in the market caused the TSE 300 index, of which Nortel accounted for more than 25 per cent, to suffer its worst point drop ever -- off 840.26 points, or 8.12 per cent  

In the Oct. 25 trading session, Nortel's stock value fell 25 per cent. In that one week, it plunged 37 per cent, or $114 billion.  

In May, Bell Canada parent BCE Inc. had spun off almost all of its 39 per cent stake in Nortel -- then worth about $90 billion -- to BCE's 500,000 shareholders. The move was meant to unlock stock value and loosen Nortel's ties to BCE and its part-owner, SBC Communications.  

On the plus side, if there is one, Nortel has been a leader in the industry for building wireless and fibre-optic networks -- where telecom companies have been spending the big bucks.  

"I think its prospects are definitely as strong or stronger than any player in the business. But does that mean it's totally insulated from downturns? No, but I think it's in a much stronger position to cope," said Surtees.  

Observers says an economic and spending slowdown in 2001 awaits the telecommunications network industry, which soared in the past year on climbing revenues, big stock-funded acquisitions and skyrocketing share prices.  

Already some major players have been hit by declining revenues and less spending by their biggest customers.  

Nortel's rival Lucent Technologies issued another profit warning this month -- its fourth in 2000. The New Jersey-based telecom equipment provider expects a first-quarter loss of 24 to 30 cents US, far worse than an earlier one-penny loss estimate.  

Lucent blamed a "significant" sales decline in North America and a slowdown in capital spending by established service providers.  

Only days earlier, big U.S. phone company SBC Communications reduced its earnings growth forecast for 2001 to between 11 and 14 per cent, down from the midteens.  

While revenues of the major U.S. carriers are growing at a rate of about 10 per cent a year, the top 40 carriers in the U.S. spent about $60 billion US in 2000, up 35 per cent from 1999, said Paul Sagawa, a communications equipment analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York. "You can't grow your spending faster than your revenues for very long."  

Another blow was dealt to telecom companies as worldwide capital markets became wary of funnelling more money into the telecom sector, where borrowing ballooned in the past year.  

Bank shareholders around the globe, particularly in Canada, have also demanded the institutions reveal their lending. They fear an economic downturn will cause some telecom companies to default on hefty loans.  

"The money's running out and the capital markets are saying, 'You can't have any more,' Sagawa said.  

Nortel expects revenues and earnings per share growth to hit 30-35 per cent in 2001, and 40-45 per cent for 2000.  

Not everyone has as positive an outlook. "Right now, I think most of the institutional investors are highly skeptical, not just of Nortel but the entire industry's ability to deliver against their goals for 2001," Sagawa said.  

Surtees polled Canadian telecom companies at the end of December and found their spending for 2001 would rise, and most had the money waiting in the bank.  

Nortel Networks  

Headquarters: Brampton  

CEO: John Roth  

Employees: About 75,000 worldwide  

What it does: The fibre-optics company builds the infrastructure of the Internet and equipment for telecommunications networks.  

Customers: Telecom, Internet and wireless service providers, Internet business companies, and small, medium and large corporations.  

Offices: In Canada, the United States, Europe, Asia-Pacific, Caribbean and Latin America, Middle East and Africa.  

Main business areas: Optical Internet, wireless, local Internet and e-business.  

Earnings: In 1999, Nortel had revenues of $21.3 billion US and earnings of $1.5 billion US.  

Photo: Spectator File Photo | Despite the dips in 2000, Nortel brass predict 30-35 per cent growth in 2001. | Photo: John Roth  

Document HMSP000020051121dwcs0019q


Newscast: Business news and stock report   

307 words
28 December 2000
CBS News: The Early Show
CBST
English
(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

DIANA OLICK, anchor:   

And now here's Alexis Christoforous with our MarketWatch.   

ALEXIS CHRISTOFOROUS reporting:   

Good morning, Diana. Well, stocks are limping their way toward the end of what could be the market's weakest year since 1981. Stocks did manage to stage a mild rally on Wednesday.   

The Dow rallied 110 to 10,803.   

(Graphic on screen)   

CBS MarketWatch cbs.marketwatch.com   

Dow Jones Industrials   

10,828.94 up 110.72   

CHRISTOFOROUS: The NASDAQ added about 46 points.   

(Graphic on screen)   

CBS MarketWatch cbs.marketwatch.com   

NASDAQ   

2,539.35 up 45.83   

CHRISTOFOROUS: This year's ailing stock market has investors voting with their wallets. New money flowing into stock mutual funds dropped 54 percent in November. That's the biggest monthly drop in about two years.   

You'll want to watch shares of  Vodafone and Verizon today. Their joint venture,  Verizon Wireless, may be sued for billions of dollars by brain tumor victims, who claim that mobile phones caused their illness.   

And watch Union Pacific. The rail carrier giant sounded a profit warning today and says it will cut 2,000 jobs. Union Pacific is blaming its troubles on the slowing economy.   

For more, you can visit cbs.marketwatch.com or AOL, keyword: MarketWatch. Diana.   

OLICK: Thanks, Alexis.   

Now let's head on back to Bryant and Julie.   

BRYANT GUMBEL (Co-host): Ladies, thank you.   

JULIE CHEN (Co-host): Thank you.   

GUMBEL: Did you watch any of Mario last night?   

CHEN: No, I know you did. I understand it was a shutout.   

GUMBEL: Yeah, he was terrific, 5-nothing. I mean, he was really wonderful.   

Still ahead, a look at workplace monitors that can check a worker's potential for violence and their secret Web surfing, too. Twenty-two past the hour. We're back after this.   

(Announcements)   

Document CBST000020070818dwcs0073f


Newscast: Business news and stock report   

395 words
28 December 2000
CBS News: Morning News
CBSM
English
(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

DIANA OLICK, anchor:   

Investors looking for signs of a stock market rally in the overnight numbers from Tokyo will not find them. The Nikkei average barely moved, down a fraction of a percentage point, on the heels of Wednesday's gains on Wall Street.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Tokyo Nikkei Average   

13,946.96 down 34.53   

Change: down 0.2%   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

OLICK: On the CBS MarketWatch, some winners and losers in Wednesday's year-end rally. Renay San Miguel has the numbers and more.   

RENAY SAN MIGUEL reporting:   

Experts call it the January effect; no matter the mood of the market in December, January usually sees buyers coming back to Wall Street. Well, maybe the January effect is starting a week early. The Dow rose 110 points Wednesday to close at 10,803.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Dow Industrials   

up to 110.72 10,803.16   

SAN MIGUEL: Consumer goods, retailers, drugs and transportation sectors did well.   

The NASDAQ saw one of its heaviest volume days in a long time, nearly two billion shares traded as it rose 45 points. Computer hardware, telecommunications, networkers and some Internet stocks sharing the ride up.   

(Graphic on screen)   

NASDAQ Composite   

up to 45.83 2,539.35   

SAN MIGUEL:  Network Associates was not among them. The computer security firm made its investors insecure Wednesday when it said it would report a loss instead of a profit in its current quarter. The company, which makes the popular McAfee antivirus software, is also losing its CEO and chief financial officer. It blamed the slow economy and excess inventory for the warning.   

A couple of the tech sectors gaining ground, included business-to-business, represented by  Commerce One and chips including  PMC-Sierra. The chipmaker gaining nearly $9 as investors saw post-Christmas bargains in technology.   

Among the retail winners: Federated, owner of  Macy's and Bloomingdale's; and  Wal-Mart. Both these stocks lost ground Tuesday after admitting that holiday sales were below expectations.   

For more on the markets, click on cbs.marketwatch.com or go to America Online, keyword MarketWatch. I'm Renay San Miguel, cbsmarketwatch.com, New York.   

OLICK: Straight ahead on the MORNING NEWS, more on the winter storm that could complicate the holiday weekend.   

And in sports, Mario Lemieux, the NHL's only player-owner comes back big time.   

Document CBSM000020070818dwcs003ha


 Business 
 Nightly Business Report 

 Jeff Yastine, Susie Gharib 
4,483 words
27 December 2000
23:30
Nightly Business Report
NBR
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 SUSIE GHARIB, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT ANCHOR: Blue chip stocks head higher again for the third session in a row. The Dow jumps 110 points; the NASDAQ gains 45. Good evening, everyone. I`m Susie Gharib in New York City. 

 JEFF YASTINE, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT ANCHOR: And I`m Jeff Yastine in Miami. Paul Kangas is off tonight. California energy regulators hold emergency hearings today over raising power prices charged by two of the state`s largest utilities. We`ll talk live with the chairman of one of them, PG&E (PCG). But it`s not just about power - the rising price of natural gas is also causing trouble for American manufacturers. 

 GHARIB: Good evening, everyone. High-powered meetings on both coasts today dealing with California`s power crisis and the financial future of two huge utilities: Edison International (EIX) and PG&E. In San Francisco, California`s Public Utilities Commission opened emergency hearings. Since the industry deregulated, wholesale power prices have skyrocketed. Now, the utilities want to raise rates between 26 and 30 percent. There are more hearings tomorrow, but state regulators are not expected to announce their decision on the rate request until their next formal meeting on January 4. In Washington today, California`s governor met with President Clinton, briefing him on the power problems. Governor Gray Davis places the blame for the crisis on power generators outside the state. 

 GOV. GRAY DAVIS (D) CALIFORNIA: I have said to the generators, you ought to take the long view. If all you do is extract every dime you can get from California, you may win the battle, but you will lose the war, because either the legislature or through the initiative process, they will eliminate your right to deregulate electricity in our states. 

 GHARIB: And late today, the Energy Department extended through January 5, the emergency order forcing those generators to sell excess power to California. 

 GHARIB: Meanwhile, on January 20, President-Elect Bush will be dealing with the energy challenges, not only in California, but all around the country. We have two reports tonight, beginning with Darren Gersh in Washington. 

 DARREN GERSH, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: A funny thing happened to the new economy: it forgot to tell the old economy to make more power, which presents a major challenge for the Bush administration. 

 WILLIAM SIMMONS, BUSH ENERGY ADVISOR: We haven`t run out of energy; we`ve run out of capacity to grow energy. So the problems we are now seeing in California are just the tip of the iceberg of what we`re going to have to live with for the next few years. 

 GERSH: Through much of the `90s when oil and natural gas prices were low, energy companies put off investments in new equipment. As a result, the nation needs new drilling rigs, new gas pipelines, new refineries, new power plants. Advisers to the president-elect say the country must make a choice: grow the economy more slowly... 

 SIMMONS: Or, we basically come to grips with the fact that we are out of energy capacity, and we go on an unbelievably expensive rebuilding of our energy complex, so we get America out of the gridlock that we`ve backed ourselves into. 

 GERSH: To ease that gridlock, President-Elect Bush proposes opening more federal land to oil and gas exploration. Mr. Bush promises to streamline energy licensing and regulatory requirements. He also wants to spend $2 billion to research clean coal technology. But environmentalists say there is a gaping hole in the Bush plan. 

 NATHANAEL GREENE, ENERGY POLICY ANALYST, NRDC: The Bush proposal really doesn`t focus on energy efficiency and renewables in a way that we think is essential. 

 GERSH: In the meantime, analysts worry political pressure is growing in California and elsewhere to roll back energy deregulation. 

 JAMES PLACKE, ANALYST, CAMBRIDGE ENERGY RESEARCH ASSN.: It is easier to identify the things to avoid. I would avoid re-regulation. Regulation is generally discouraging to investment. 

 GERSH: The best advice many have to offer the next Energy secretary, is to duck. The job is thought to be a sure way to end a promising career, and the Bush administration is believed to be having trouble filling the post. Darren Gersh, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, Washington. 

 DIANE EASTABROOK, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: In the past few months, John B. Sanfilippo & Son, maker of Fisher brand nuts, says it`s natural gas bills have been about 80 percent higher than normal. The company uses natural gas to power its nut roasters and to make glass jars for many of its products. 

 MICHAEL VALENTINE, SR. VICE PRES., JOHN B. SANFILIPPO & SON: We have notified some of our customers, especially those customers that buy their nuts in glass containers, that we will have to pass some of these increases along. 

 EASTABROOK: Spiraling natural gas prices are eroding profits for many manufacturers. Natural gas is used to produce everything, from steel, to plastic, to most chemicals. Utilities even use it as a fuel to generate power. In a recent letter to Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan, the National Association of Manufacturers said higher energy prices are a growing threat to its members. A viscous cold snap that has gripped most of the nation and tight supplies of natural gas are the reasons prices are at nose-bleed levels. They have risen from just under $3 per thousand cubic feet last winter, to around $10 in recent days. Energy analysts don`t expect prices to ease significantly, anytime soon. 

 PHILIP FLYNN, ENERGY ANALYST, ALARON TRADING: We used to have an off-season for natural gas. We don`t have that anymore. And if we get another strong blast of arctic cold, the demand is going to stay strong, supplies are going to stay stressed, and prices are poised to move higher. 

 EASTABROOK: Although natural gas prices are troubling many manufacturers, some economists call them, a "temporary" threat to the overall economy, and predict an easing in the months ahead. 

 DIANE SWONK, CHIEF ECONOMIST, BANK ONE: It`s just extraordinary belt tightening, very hard bumps through the winter; but if you can make it through the winter, you`re going to be just fine. 

 EASTABROOK: While economists and manufacturers are confident a spring thaw will bring down natural gas prices, analysts warn with supplies being as tight as they are, a heat wave next summer could send natural gas prices soaring once more. Diane Eastabrook, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, Elk Grove Village, Illinois. 

 YASTINE: Well, like natural gas prices, stocks were rising in price today as well. The blue chips once again the place to be. The Dow Jones Industrial Average picking up the lion`s share of those gains. At the opening bell, the Dow moved a bit lower before buyers emerged for a broad group of stocks, like some retailers like Wal*Mart (WMT), defensive plays like Procter & Gamble (PG), Home Depot (HD) and Disney (DIS) all posting good gains. That was in spite of a weaker bond market. And decliners had a narrow edge at the early going there over advancers on the big board by a 5-3 margin. By noontime, the Dow was about 80 points higher; the NASDAQ also showing more strength as the day wore on, even though some of the usual suspects, like Intel (INTC) and Cisco (CSCO) were flat to fractionally lower. There was some talk of short-covering going on, as well as traders positioning themselves for the new year ahead. In the last hour of trading, more buyers emerged for the blue chips, and the Dow went on to close with a gain of 110.72 points at 10,803. And the NASDAQ Composite rising 45.83 points to 2539. 

 Volume perking up above the billion-share mark, with up volume swelling to 753 million shares alone. 

 Here`s a look at the Transports, gaining 60 points today. 

 Utilities though, slipping a half a point. 

 The Closing Tick strongly bullish with the 915-point-plus in the margin there. 

 And the top five sectors in the S&P 500 today were retail-related. The Index thumbing 13 3/4 points. 

 The 100 rising over four points. 

 The MidCap gaining about 10 1/2. 

 And the Bridge CRB Index edging up just a fraction. 

 The New York Exchange Composite Index and Value Line - each rising more than 7 1/2 points. 

 The Small Cap Russell 2000 Index gaining more than 12. 

 And the Broadly-Based Wilshire 5000 rising 161 points. 

 Bonds were weaker on the day as more profit-takers emerged amid continued thin volume. But bond bulls continue to take heart from the latest report from the Conference Board that the U.S. Index of Leading Economic Indicators fell 0.2 percent last month - that continues to feed expectations of slower economic growth and Fed easing next year. Corporate and tax-free issues were fractionally lower to unchanged. 

 And Treasuries fell across the board. 

 The 5-year note falling 9/32. 

 The Benchmark 10-year note falling 14/32. 

 And the 30-year bond falling 15/32. 

 And the Lehman Brothers Long Bond Index dropping nearly eight points. 

 I`ll be back later to show you more of what was happening on Wall Street today. Susie. 

 GHARIB: Jeff, back now to our top story, that power crisis in California. PG&E (PCG) is one of the two big California utilities on the critical list. Joining me live from San Francisco now is the Chairman and CEO of PG&E, Robert Glynn Mr.Glynn, nice to see you again. 

 ROBERT GLYNN, PRESIDENT & CEO, PG&E: Nice to see you, Susie. 

 GHARIB: At those hearings in San Francisco today, your company said that Pacific Gas and Electric has only enough money to last for another three to seven weeks. Are you saying then after that time it`s going to file for bankruptcy? 

 GLYNN: Well, after that time, if costs continue as they are and if we don`t get any new sources of revenue like we`re hoping to get approved on January 4th, then we would be in very serious financial difficulty. 

 GHARIB: What does that mean for PG&E the parent company? Does that mean that your company could also go bankrupt? 

 GLYNN: Well, PG&E Corporation, the parent company, the largest part of the corporate family by far is Pacific Gas and Electric Company. So serious problems in Pacific Gas and Electric Company translate to serious problems in the corporation. 

 GHARIB: Let`s talk a little bit about this rate increase that you`re requesting from state regulators. You`re asking, from my understanding, a 26 percent increase in customer rates. 

 GLYNN: Yes. 

 GHARIB: Let`s say that state regulators on January 4th don`t go for that, maybe just 10 percent. Can you last on a 10 percent rate increase? 

 GLYNN: Well, the equation includes this. The wholesale prices are much, much higher than they`ve been in the past and either those prices get passed through to consumers in higher rates or someone has to finance the shortfall. Our company is out of the ability to finance the shortfall. So the state could do some securitization with their credit or they could give us sufficient assurance of recovering all these costs in the future, but there`s no free lunch in this. Someone would have to finance a lower increase. 

 GHARIB: So you`re saying 10 percent, you can`t function on your own with a 10 percent rate increase? 

 GLYNN: That`s right. There`s got to be some additional financing entity present for that to work. 

 GHARIB: Mr. Glynn, have you talked to the state about any kind of bailout or, as you say, any kind of them assuming some of the credit liabilities that you have? 

 GLYNN: Well, when you think about going forward, there are lots of ways that state entities as well as the utility companies could develop the financing capability to do that and I think one possibility that the state is considering is whether or not they would want to be a part of that. 

 GHARIB: And so how realistic is that, for the state to come through with some kind of rescue plan? 

 GLYNN: I think the state`s alternatives are to grant sufficient increases to the utilities` prices to enable the utilities to finance these high wholesale generator charges or to step in themselves and do it. 

 GHARIB: I understand, Mr. Glynn, that PG&E is going to file suit tomorrow against the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, FERC. What are you hoping to achieve from that? 

 GLYNN: Well, there was a suit filed yesterday by our sister utility that was asking the Federal Energy -- was asking the federal district court to ask the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to be much more aggressive in dealing with the unconscionably high prices that generators are charging to Californians. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission has an obligation to find that only just and reasonable rates are charged. They have found that the generators are charging unjust and unreasonable rates and therefore they need to take the next step, which is to do something about it. And the suit that was filed by our sister utility yesterday was aimed at seeing that happening. 

 GHARIB: When do you think this whole thing is going to get resolved? 

 GLYNN: Well, it certainly needs to get resolved very soon. With companies that only have three or five or six weeks` worth of cash available to them and new financing close to them right now, new revenue increases, that means energy prices to consumers, need to go up now. 

 GHARIB: If you go bankrupt, if it gets to that point, what happens to meeting the electricity needs of the public? 

 GLYNN: Well, it would really be a disaster because what consumers would be faced with and what the California economy would be faced with is the high wholesale prices would still exist and they would have to deal with all of the fallout of the bankruptcy of two giant companies, which means that suppliers and tenants and landlords and retirees would find themselves at the short end of the stick in the proceeding for bankruptcy. 

 GHARIB: Well, it`s obviously a very serious situation as you`ve portrayed it. Thank you very much for coming and talking to NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT this evening. 

 GLYNN: Thank you, Susie. 

 GHARIB: We`ve been talking to Robert Glynn, Chairman and CEO Of PG&E, live from San Francisco. 

 GHARIB: Well, just as November was a rough month for stocks, it was a rough month for stock based mutual funds. The Investment Company Institute says net new cash flow into stock funds fell to just under $9 billion last month, down sharply from October. The total asset value of stock funds fell by $428 billion, or 10 percent, in the month of November. And total U.S. mutual fund assets fell five percent last month to $6.8 trillion. Jeff? 

 YASTINE: Well, at least a portion of those funds were being deployed, a small portion being deployed into the blue chips today with the Dow rising 110 points for the day. Advancers with a near three to one lead over declining issues, 318 issues with new highs, new yearly highs, 86 new yearly lows. 

 Lucent Technologies (LU) edging up $0.19. It`s been moving sideways since it warned last week about first quarter losses. 

 Nortel Networks (NT) rising $0.88. 

 AT& T (T) falling $0.53, sitting at its 52 week low that it set last week. 

 America Online (AOL) falling nearly 3. It`s near its two year closing low and the company has already warned regulators of the financial burdens it faces if the merger with Time Warner (TWX) is not approved by year`s end. There`s only two more trading days left. 

 Motorola (MOT) gaining $1.19. 

 Texas Instruments (TXN) jumping $3.75, the company unveiling a new analog to digital converter unit today and that capped a four percent gain in the semiconductor index today. 

 G.E. (GE) falling about a $1. 

 Compaq (CPQ) rising $0.41. 

 Qwest Communications (Q) picking up more than a $1. The company has already confirmed strong demand for DSL equipment, may help fourth quarter earnings top analysts` estimates of $0.14 a share. 

 Viacom (VIA.B) falling $0.94. 

 And among the widely helds, The Gap (GPS) climbing more than $2. Sales at specialty stores rose by more than two percent during the holiday season according to a new survey by an industry trade group. 

 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) rising $0.63, its Cordis unit completing its acquisition of Atronix for $62 million. And J&J says it will take a $0.04 a share charge against fourth quarter results. 

 Kerr-McGee (KMG) jumping $3.50. ABN Amro repeating a "strong buy" on this natural gas producer. 

 Procter & Gamble (PG) moving up more than $2. 

 Time Warner (TWX) down nearly $5 following AOL lower. 

 Wal*Mart (WMT) gaining $1.94. That`s despite Goldman Sachs cutting estimates on the stock today. 

 And Luby`s (LUB), this is a cafeteria chain, rising $1.56. The Pappas restaurant chain said it owns about six percent of Luby`s and may seek a seat on the board of directors. 

 Abercrombie & Fitch (ANF) climbing more than $4, Prudential Securities noting good traffic continues at that apparel retailer. 

 TNPC (NPW), this is the parent of New Power Company, gaining $1.75, again, on the back of higher natural gas prices today. 

 Some bottom fishing in shares of Enzo Biochem (ENZ), the stock rising $4.25. The company is expected to enter Phase II trials with its gene therapy to treat HIV. 

 Apogent Technology (AOT) moving up more than $1. Tucker Anthony upgrading the stock from "buy" to "strong buy" set a one year price target of $28 a share. 

 Yankee Candle (YCC) falling $1.56. That`s a new 52 week low there. No news from the company. 

 In NASDAQ trading, the Composite Index creeping up about 45.83 points to 2539. Volume nearly two billion shares and that was quite a pick up from yesterday`s level, advancers leading decliners by about a 7 to 6 margin. 

 Among the dollar volume leaders here, JDS Uniphase (JDSU) climbing $5.50. Ryan, Beck & Company repeating a "strong buy" on the stock. Also, JDS Uniphase postponing a shareholder meeting that was scheduled today on the SDL acquisition. It`s pushed back to January 26th. 

 Cisco Systems (CSCO) holding steady. 

 Juniper Networks (JNPR) gaining $11. 

 Microsoft (MSFT) losing $0.44. 

 Applied Micro Circuits (AMCC) gaining a little over $8. 

 SDL (SDLI) rising nearly $20 with JDSU today. 

 QUALCOMM (QCOM) rising a bit over $6. 

 Intel (INTC) falling $0.31. 

 Sun Micro (SUNW) rising just a fraction. 

 And Oracle (ORCL) falling a 1/4. 

 Among the big movers here, P-Com (PCOM) advancing $1.55. That was a double. The company expects to meet or beat earlier estimates of $60 million. 

 Network Associates (NETA) tumbling $7.25. The company`s fired its CEO, CFO and President and the company issued a fourth quarter revenue warning because of poor sales. 

 Concurrent Computer (CCUR) losing $3.94, another profit warning, Concurrent expecting losses to be about double their earlier estimate of $0.04 a share. 

 On the American Exchange, the Composite Index taking a pause, falling a point today. 

 And among the movers, Winton Financial (WFI) rising $1.22, a spokesman suggesting that the stock may be under valued since the outlook for interest rates may be favorable to mortgage lenders going forward. 

 And Prize Energy (PRZ) jumping $1.88, yet another oil and gas drilling firm. The company said it would increase its budget for gas and oil drilling by 40 percent. 

 Finally, the Index Shares all settling fractionally higher. 

 That`s the Wall Street Wrap Up. Susie? 

 GHARIB: Jeff, not a bad for today. So what`s the outlook for stocks in the new year? Joining me now with some thoughts is our colleague from BridgeNews, David Kozo. David, nice to see you. 

 DAVID KOZO, EQUITIES CORRESPONDENT, BRIDGENEWS: Same here. 

 GHARIB: So, what is the outlook? As you talk to stock market strategists what are they telling you about the Dow, the NASDAQ, the S&P? 

 KOZO: Well, the Dow and the S&P are, they`re probably looking for about 10 percent growth in each, which would basically put us back to where we started the year. The S&P is now down 10 percent. The Dow, actually, with today`s gain is only down six percent for the year. So a 10 percent gain would put it over its, over where it ended in 1999 and also over its record high. 

 GHARIB: And the NASDAQ? 

 KOZO: The NASDAQ, we would probably be looking at around 20 percent gain get back. So it`s basically getting back about half of what it lost. 

 GHARIB: Let`s talk some of the issues that investors are concerned about and you`re hearing the same things about, the Federal Reserve possibly cutting interest rates. I`m hearing maybe three times in year 2001. What impact might that have? What are you hearing on that? 

 KOZO: Well, the first cut will definitely come in January, probably 25 basis points, and then again in March. So we know that. And I think that investors are going to start to price that into the stocks as we head into late January. People are going to be expecting this, at least the 25 point basis point move. So if they don`t get that, they may even sell out then or, you know, or if they don`t get a 50 point move. So, yeah, they`re definitely looking at that at least 50 or 75 points. 

 GHARIB: As a positive factor. Now we`ve to get through these earnings. 

 KOZO: Right. 

 GHARIB: Looking at various sectors, which sectors seem to be the most attractive in `01? 

 KOZO: Well, probably the financials eventually will be. Once we get this interest rate situation cleared up and once the rates are lower, the financials will look good. Certainly the areas of technology, the technology infrastructure picks. A lot of the big money managers still love these stocks. 

 GHARIB: But technology as a whole, quickly? 

 KOZO: Technology as a whole generally positive but certain areas of weakness. 

 GHARIB: We`ve got to watch for all of that. We`ll have you on during the year to come back and talk more on all of this. 

 KOZO: OK. Great, I`d like that. 

 GHARIB: For tonight, thank you so much. 

 KOZO: Thanks, Susie. 

 GHARIB: And we`ve been speaking with David Kozo of BridgeNews. 

 YASTINE: Tomorrow, it`s the world`s largest supplier of e-business application software. Meet Tom Siebel, CEO Of Siebel Systems (SEBL). 

 GHARIB: Adios to Quepasa.com (PASA). The bilingual Web site aimed at Hispanics announced plans today to liquidate its assets. It`s selling three Web subsidiaries and giving the proceeds to shareholders. Quepasa has been seeking a buyer since May. Last week, the NASDAQ warned it would move to delist the company`s stock if the minimum $1 bid price was not met. Quepasa stock was halted today. It last traded at $0.13 a share. 

 YASTINE: And those problems at Quepasa are becoming more common in the dot.com sector. Employment tracking firm Challenger, Gray and Christmas says more than 10,000 Internet workers were pink slipped this month, the highest level ever. And the two halves of 2000 were like night and day --just 5,000 dot.com layoffs between January and June and a whopping 36,000 between July and December. 

 GHARIB: It`s the season for charitable giving, so from the money file tonight, a suggestion for a different way to give. Here`s Terry Savage, author of "The Savage Truth On Money." 

 TERRY SAVAGE, AUTHOR, "THE SAVAGE TRUTH ON MONEY": It`s the season of giving and there`s still time not only to give but to take a tax deduction. Plus there`s a growing new way to leverage your giving. It`s called donor advised funds and since I introduced you to the Fidelity Charitable Gift Fund in a commentary seven years ago, many more financial services company have introduced them. In fact, if you`ll check our Web site, www.nbr.com, you can get a listing of all the public donor advised funds. They work in much the same way. 

 You, the donor, open a minimum $10,000 account in one of these funds and get an immediate tax deduction for your contribution of either cash or appreciated securities up to certain IRS limits. But the contribution does not have to be distributed to the charities immediately. Instead it can grow tax free in one of several investment pool choices. Then in the future at your discretion, checks for a minimum of $250 can be sent to any registered 501C3 public charity of your choice. 

 Now about that leverage. On the deduction side if you donate appreciated securities, and certainly there must be some out there, you`ll avoid paying capital gains and get a deduction for the full market value, up to 30 percent of your adjusted gross income. 

 On the giving side, all the future growth of your contribution in those investment pools is tax free, so you could distribute even more than you originally contributed, helping your chosen charities in a truly leveraged way. Now, that`s my idea of a gift that keeps growing and giving. 

 I`m Terry Savage. 

 YASTINE: And recapping today`s market action, the Dow gaining 110 points and the NASDAQ closes up 45. 

 And please be sure to join us at our World Wide Web site, NBR.com. That`s NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT for Wednesday, December 27th. I`m Jeff Yastine. Good night, everyone. Good night to you, Susie. 

 GHARIB: Good night, Jeff. I`m Susie Gharib and we`ll see all of you again tomorrow night. 

 END 

 TO PURCHASE A VIDEOTAPE OF THIS PIECE, PLEASE CALL  888-266-3601 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc.  Formatting and transcription copyright 2000 eMediaMillWorks, Inc.  (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No quotes from the materials contained herein may be used in any media without attribution to Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. This transcript may not be copied or resold in any media. 

Document nbr0000020010808dwcr00077




 US STKS SURGE AS DOW LEADS - LOUSY YEAR CLOSES, BUT JAN LOOMS. 

531 words
27 December 2000
21:04
Market News International
MARNEW
English
(c) 2000. Market News International, Inc.

 NEW YORK (MktNews) - U.S. share prices were widely higher late Wednesday as buyers slogged their way through a sloppy trading session ahead of what is likely to be an active, if not sour, January, sources said. 

 At 14:00 p.m. ET, the DJIA was quoted up 104.65 points at 10797.09 while the Nasdaq index was quoted up 38.86 at 2532.38, putting its full year loss at about 37 percent. 

 The Nasdaq has suffered by far the heaviest losses of the year for the major averages. By contrast, the Wilshire 5000, up 140.03 at 12193.82 on the day, has a full year loss of about 11 percent. 

 Most companies, as most investors, have shelved business for the year, pushing into next week what promises to be a second wave of earnings warnings. 

 The earnings season itself, often an anti-climax, will begin at about mid-month and last to month end. 

 At month end will be the Federal Reserve's policy meeting, where an interest rate cut is widely expected. Analysts note that a cut could come sooner should economic data prove alarmingly weak. 

 But, many dealers and analysts believe that rate cuts will not help the market in the short run, which instead will be punished by the sharp drop in earnings during the fourth quarter. Profit growth for the S&P 500, based on still falling current estimates, is expected to come in at under 5 percent for the fourth quarter, off from the 20 percent pace of the first three quarters. 

 Earnings warning on Wednesday were headed by Network Associates, maker of McAfee anti-virus software. The company, down 7 1/16, or 60 percent, at 4 11/16 [NETA], will post a large loss instead of the moderate profit that was expected. 

 Data Broadcasting, up 1/8 at 3 3/16 [DBCC], said it will sell its 34 percent stake in financial news provider MarketWatch.com to U.K. media giant Pearson PLC for about $27 million, a 25 percent premium over the share price. MarketWatch.com was up 19/32 at 2 13/16 [MKTW]. 

 Business-to-business shares were busy, with Commerce One rising 2 5/16 to 24 11/16 [CMRC] on an analyst upgrade. But Excelon fell 1 3/8 to 1 5/16 [EXLN] after issuing a warning. 

 Coca-Cola was up 1 at 61 [KO] while PepsiCo gained to 49 1/18 [PEP] following a broker upgrade. 

 Dealers said pharmaceuticals continued to show strength as a counter-cyclical shelter. Merck was up 15/16 at 93 5/8 [MRK] while Johnson & Johnson was up 1 15/16 at 104 5/16 [JNJ]. 

 The latest sign of the economic downturn came from east coast discount retailer Bradlees, which filed for bankruptcy and said it will liquidate, not restructure. The decision will put 10,000 employees on the unemployment line. The announcement follows Tuesday's warning from leader Wal-Mart that holiday sales were weak. Bradlees last traded at 7/32. 

 ***MARKET NEWS INTERNATIONAL NEW YORK NEWSROOM 212 509 9270*** 

 [TOPICS: MNUEQ$]. 

Document marnew0020010814dwcr012ra




Business
Nortel braces for a bumpy ride; "Roth and everybody have a challenging year ahead. The year to come could be even worse, from an investor or stock perspective."; It's lost its lustre as a market darling-- and some analysts say there's more pain to come  

Gillian Livingston  
Canadian Press
1,238 words
27 December 2000
Kitchener-Waterloo Record
TKWR
Final
C04
English
Copyright (c) 2000 Kitchener-Waterloo Record.  

Toronto -- Nortel's stock price, adjusted for a mid-2000 split, was at $72.93 at the end of 1999, and now hovers in the $50 range on the Toronto Stock Exchange -- that's a loss of about $54 billion in market value -- no chump change.  

Still, some analysts are saying the fibre-optics giant's stock still has further to drop -- to perhaps between $15 and $25.  

Others suggest Nortel rival Cisco Systems will be the first in the new year to get hit.  

Nortel executives have put aside stock valuations and emphasized repeatedly in the past few months that their outlook for the coming year is positive.  

"Looking forward to 2001, we continue to expect the overall market to grow in excess of 20 per cent," said CEO John Roth.  

"Given our strong market position and leadership in high-performance Internet solutions, we continue to expect to grow significantly faster than the market, with anticipated growth in revenues and earnings per share from operations in the 30 to 35 per cent range," Roth said.  

While Roth puts forward a rosy view, analysts are taking a hard look at how much money global telecom companies have left to spend on infrastructure as financial markets tighten and bankers get worried about the money they've already loaned for telecom projects.  

"Roth and everybody have a challenging year ahead," said Lawrence Surtees, a telecom analyst with IDC Canada.  

"The year to come could be even worse, from an investor and stock perspective."  

Nortel's year on the stock markets was a wild ride. Its high-priced stock helped fuel an ambitious acquisition program, paid for with shares, that boosted revenues and added new technology.  

But the declining share price could curtail the pace of crucial acquisitions in an industry where having the newest and best technology is vital to survival.  

On the plus side, if there is one for some shaken investors, Nortel has been a leader in the industry for building wireless and fibre-optic networks --where telecom companies have been spending the big bucks.  

"I think its prospects are as strong or stronger than any player in the business. But does that mean it's totally insulated from downturns? No, but I think it's in a much stronger position to cope," said Surtees.  

Observers say an economic and spending slowdown in 2001 awaits the telecom network industry, which soared in the past year on climbing revenues, big stock-funded acquisitions and skyrocketing share prices.  

Already some major players have been hit by declining revenues and less spending by their biggest customers.  

Lucent Technologies, Nortel's most direct rival, issued another profit warning -- its fourth this year -- in late December. The telecom equipment provider expects a first-quarter loss between 24 and 30 cents US, far worse than an earlier one-penny loss estimate.  

Only days earlier, big U.S. phone company SBC Communications reduced its earnings growth forecast for 2001.  

While revenues of the major U.S. carriers are growing at a rate of about 10 per cent a year, the top 40 carriers in the U.S. spent about $60 billion US in 2000, up 35 per cent from 1999, said Paul Sagawa, a communications equipment analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  

"You can't grow your spending faster than your revenues for very long," he said.  

Another blow was dealt to telecom companies as world capital markets became wary of funnelling more money into the telecom sector, where borrowing ballooned in the past year.  

Bank shareholders around the globe, and particularly in Canada, have also demanded the institutions reveal their lending to the sector. They fear that an economic downturn will cause some telecom companies to default on hefty loans.  

"The money's running out and the capital markets are saying, 'You can't have any more,"' Sagawa said.  

"The capital markets are asking these carriers to show some fiscal responsibility, and fiscal responsibility is very bad news for companies that are selling equipment."  

Nortel expects the strongest growth will be in the fibre-optic networks that serve major cities and in the next generation of wireless networks that will allow faster transmission of data -- all part of mobile commerce.  

Tam Dell'Oro, with Dell'Oro Group, a telecom research firm, agrees that demand will rise.  

"Yes, the service providers are commenting about slowdowns in spending, but if you look at what their customers are doing, their customers are trading up," she said. For example, they are adding cable modems and digital service lines to boost their capability to use the Internet.  

"That's why I think the slowdown in the service provider equipment purchases is a temporary thing," Dell'Oro said.  

NORTEL IN A NUTSHELL  

Headquarters: Brampton, Ont.  

CEO: John Roth.  

Employees: About 75,000 worldwide.  

What it does: The fibre-optics company builds the infrastructure of the Internet and equipment for telecommunications networks.  

Customers: Telecom, Internet and wireless service providers, Internet business companies, and small, medium and large corporations.  

Offices: In Canada, the United States, Europe, Asia-Pacific, Caribbean and Latin America, Middle East and Africa.  

Main business areas: Optical Internet, wireless, local Internet and e-business.  

Earnings: In 1999 the company had revenues of $21.3 billion US and earnings of $1.5 billion US.  

A YEAR OF LIVING ACQUISITIVELY  

Some of Nortel Networks' major moves in the past year:  

October: Creates cable access company Arris Inc. as joint-venture partner Antec merges with Arris. The deal recently had to be postponed until early 2001.  

August: Nortel buys Sonoma Systems, which offers high-speed video, data and voice communications over one connection, for $540 million US in shares.  

July: Nortel buys Alteon WebSystems, an Internet data centre company, for $7.8 billion US in stock; invests $1.9 billion to double production capability for optical Internet products, creating 9,600 jobs, with about 1,600 in Canada.  

June: Buys Epicon, which has application service provider software, for $275 million US in shares.  

May: Nortel buys Photonic Technologies, an Australian optical components company, for $35.5 million in cash.  

April: Invests $143 million US to expand its Ottawa research facility; buys Toronto-based Architel Systems, a software company that helps service providers offer Internet services, for $395 million US in shares; sells some manufacturing operations in North America and Asia to Solectron Corp.  

March: Nortel buys CoreTek, an optical component and laser company, for $1.43 billion US in shares; buys Xros for $3.25 billion in stock.  

February: Buys Dimension Enterprises, an engineering and business strategy consultants firm that helps design data centres, for $64.5 million in cash.  

January: Buys Promatory Communications, a developer of digital subscriber line platforms for high-speed Internet access, for $778 million US in shares.  

Picture saved by Library; Ran with "NORTEL IN A NUTSHELL" and "A YEAR OF LIVING ACQUISITIVELY" which has been appended to the end of this story

Canadian Press | With CEO John Roth at the controls, Nortel Networks will enter 2001 with a very full project schedule, but also with concerns about its outlook and its stock price.  

Document TKWR000020060206dwcr00wlc


Newscast: Stock report   

234 words
27 December 2000
Minnesota Public Radio: Marketplace
MKPL
English
(c) Copyright 2000, Minnesota Public Radio. All Rights Reserved.   

DAVID BRANCACCIO, anchor:   

But first, let's do the numbers.   

Stock market made up for some lost ground with the end of the year approaching, but a lot of investors seemed to be sitting out this holiday-shortened week. Trading light today. The Dow up 110, 1 percent, to close at 10,803. The NASDAQ Composite went up 45 points, or 1.8 percent, to end the day at 2,539. The S&P 500 gaining 1 percent.   

Bad news from the company that makes McAfee antivirus software, and it sent  Network Associates' stock plunging by nearly two-thirds of its value today. The company surprised investors with a fourth-quarter profit warning.   

Figure this one out: On the heels of discouraging holiday sales reports from nearly all the major retailers, their stock went up today:  Nordstrom, up 12 percent;  Toys 'R' Us, 11 percent increase there. Analysts say investors apparently think the worst could be behind for the big retailers.   

You're listening to MARKETPLACE.   

(Announcements)   

Announcer: Heard something on today's program you'd like to hear again? Tapes and transcripts are available by calling 1 (800) 777-T-E-X-T. That's 1 (800) 777-TEXT. Just tell the operator the date of the program you'd like. Or get more information by visiting us on our Web site. You'll find us at marketplace.org.   

Document MKPL000020070820dwcr003sd


Newscast: Business news and stock report   

462 words
27 December 2000
CBS News: Morning News
CBSM
English
(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

ALEXIS CHRISTOFOROUS, anchor:   

Well, stocks ended lower in Japan overnight. The Nikkei index was down less than 1/4 of 1 percent.   

(Graphic on screen)   

TOKYO NIKKEI AVERAGE   

13,981.49 down 26.36   

CHANGE: down 0.19%   

CBS.MARKETWATCH.COM   

CHRISTOFOROUS: And on the CBS MarketWatch, blue chips led the way in a mixed session on Wall Street Tuesday. Renay San Miguel has the story.   

RENAY SAN MIGUEL reporting:   

Experts say the week between Christmas and New Year's is traditionally a good one for investors. They say since 1970, it's been a bullish week seven times out of 10. But then again, this is the new century, and this week isn't starting out like it has any respect for tradition. The Dow ended Tuesday up 56 points to 10,692.   

(Graphic on screen)   

DOW INDUSTRIALS   

up to 56.88 10,692.44   

SAN MIGUEL: Oil, drug and biotech and utility stocks helping to lift the Dow past all that technology and retail selling.   

(Graphic on screen)   

NASDAQ COMPOSITE   

down to 23.50 2,493.52   

SAN MIGUEL: A last-minute rally attempt did fall short on the NASDAQ Tuesday, although it cut its losses nearly in half. The index was still down 23 points by the closing bell.   

Retailers are getting the attention of investors this week, whether you're in line at a mall returning a Christmas gift or buying or selling retail stocks. More selling than buying on Tuesday.  Wal-Mart issued a strange press release, a tribute to Dr. Seuss, as it were, in which it said in rhyme December sales would be below what the company planned for.   

Same story with  Federated Department Stores, the parent company of retail giants  Macy's and Bloomingdale's. It also is seeing a lighter-than-expected December.   

And the parent company of  Zales Jewelers said diamonds were definitely not their best friends this Christmas,  Zale Corporation issuing a profit warning citing weak holiday sales.   

(Graphic on screen)   

PROFIT WARNINGS   

Wal-Mart (WMT)   

Federated Department Stores (FD)   

Zales Corp (ZLC)   

SAN MIGUEL: For once, the news was better in the online world. Shares of both  Yahoo! and Amazon were up more than a dollar Tuesday after  Yahoo! announced that Web Christmas sales doubled the take from last year.   

(Graphic on screen)   

WEB CHRISTMAS BOOST   

YAHOO! (YHOO)   

AMAZON.COM (AMZN)   

SAN MIGUEL: For more market news, just click on our Web site at cbs.marketwatch.com, or AOL, keyword MarketWatch. I'm Renay San Miguel, CBS MarketWatch, New York.   

CHRISTOFOROUS: And still to come on the CBS MORNING NEWS, the Wednesday weather.   

And in sports, Vince Carter puts on a show, but is it enough to carry the Raptors over the Timberwolves?   

(Announcements)   

Document CBSM000020070818dwcr003gs




 BUSINESS 
 Family jewels --- Greenspan's advice sought on California power crisis 

AP PHOTO; FROM THE STAR'S WIRE SERVICES
803 words
27 December 2000
The Toronto Star
TOR
1
BU02
English
 Copyright (c) 2000 The Toronto Star 

 California Governor Gray Davis met for over two hours with Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan and U.S. Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers on the Western state's power crisis that has left two utilities on the brink of bankruptcy. 

 Davis said after the meeting he didn't ask Greenspan to intervene on behalf of the utilities, but only sought advice. 

 PG&E Corp.'s Pacific Gas & Electric and Edison International's Southern California Edison units face more than $8 billion (U.S.) of losses from soaring power costs and regulations barring them from raising rates. 

 With their credit rating under review for a possible downgrade, PG&E and Edison can't sell more short-term debt or commercial paper. Yesterday Edison said its was unable to complete the syndication of a $1 billion revolving credit agreement or market its commercial paper or other short-term financial instruments. 

 A default on the IOUs typically triggers defaults on a company's other debt, which totals more than $20 billion for the two utilities. The Fed's interest in the situation springs from the potential effect of a default on the credit markets. 

 GM offers seat anchors General Motors Corp., the Number 1 auto maker, is offering new child safety seat anchors in some 2001 cars and trucks to help reduce injuries and deaths from installation errors. 

 The system, called the "Latch," uses a top tether and anchors between the seat back and bottom cushion to secure the seat without seat belts. 

 The system is available on the 2001 Pontiac Aztek sport-utility vehicle, Grand Am sedan, Montana minivan, Oldsmobile Alero sedan, Silhouette minivan, Chevrolet Venture minivan, Silverado pickup truck and GMC Sierra pickup models. 

 The U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration proposed tighter standards last month for child restraint systems to reduce accidents that killed 1,135 children aged 10 and younger and injured more than 182,000 others last year. 

 Vietnam's GDP rises Vietnam yesterday reported a solid economic pickup in 2000, estimating gross domestic product growth of 6.75 per cent, but its trade deficit surged to an estimated $1.3 billion (U.S.) due to high prices for oil product imports. 

 The GDP growth figure for 2000 is an increase from an official estimate of 4.8 per cent growth for last year, Vietnam's lowest rate for a decade. 

 The latest figure is more optimistic than those given by the International Monetary Fund and World Bank, which have forecast 5.5 per cent and 5.8 per cent GDP growth for 2000 respectively. 

 Japan takes stock Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party yesterday decided to set up a committee that will discuss measures to support weakened share prices, The Nihon Keizai Shimbun reported today. 

 The committee will start holding talks early next year, aimed at drawing up measures to create "a stock market that reflects the actual condition of the Japanese economy" ahead of the March fiscal year-end, according to an LDP official. 

 Shizuka Kamei, LDP policy research council chairman, and other party members are calling on banks and others to refrain from unwinding cross-shareholdings. They also say that the postal savings system should aggressively invest in stocks. 

 ConAgra plant burns Firefighters yesterday battled a blaze that caused extensive damage at a ConAgra Foods Inc. beef processing plant in Garden City, Kan., a fire official said. 

 There were no injuries, according to Bret Fox, a spokesperson for the company's ConAgra Beef Co. unit, but the fire caused extensive damage in the plant's rendering area. 

 Bradlees seeks protection Bradlees Inc., whose shares have lost almost all their value this year, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection as the company shuts down its Northeastern U.S. chain of discount stores. Bradlees also said it reached an agreement to sell its inventory to a group led by Boston-based Gordon Brothers Retail Partners LLC. Bankruptcy-court approval of the agreement is still pending, the company said in a statement. 

 Zale issues profit warning Zale Corp. said fiscal second-quarter earnings will miss analyst forecasts because of a drop in the jewelry chain's same-store sales. 

 Profit will be $2.42 (U.S.) to $2.50 a share in the quarter ending Jan. 31, the company said in a release. Zale was expected to earn $2.77, the average estimate of analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial. It earned $2.33 a year earlier. 

 Zeta Graff poses with the world's largest vivid yellow diamond at family-owned Graff Jewellers in London last week. The 132.42-carat stone, known as The Sarah, was mined in South Africa and is valued at about $22 million. 

Document tor0000020010813dwcr01dux




 Potential landmines ahead. 

871 words
27 December 2000
Business Times Singapore
STBT
English
(c) 2000 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

 The US remains the place to be in but recent events point to a rocky ride next year 

 TWO positives, taken together, have inspired an impressive turnaround in favour of the US dollar and US stocks this week. This can only be good news for the exportdependent economies of Asia - and has provided a respite for the region's currencies and stocks. Bottom line: markets are telling us that the US remains the place to be, but the last month's events also provide fair warning of at least a rockier ride next year. Firstly, financial markets have already priced in a Bush presidency and up to two US interest rate cuts in the first half of next year. This was surmised from the latest deliberations of the US judiciary, and may even mean a final outcome by the time this article is read. Favoured alternatives to the greenback - the euro, the Australian and New Zealand dollars - have accordingly corrected back lower, based on the likely less interventionist inclinations of a Bush administration. The other big plus comes as the direct result of an Alan Greenspan speech last Tuesday. The Federal Reserve's highly respected chairman further reinforced market speculation that Fed policymakers will at least move back to a neutral monetary policy stance when they meet next Tuesday. US treasury bond benchmarks extended recent advances which were gained from a flight to quality when stocks were free-falling - and have since priced in further interest rate cuts across the whole yield curve. Blue-chip indices like the Dow and the S&P 500 are now actually marginally higher than they were a month ago, and even the Nasdaq has all but recouped its losses of the last month with its move above 3,000 on Monday night. But the path ahead is certainly strewn with more obstacles than at this time last year and, in the closing column for this year, we endeavour to highlight the most important of these potential landmines. The dominant sentiment is that the US, on balance, should still emerge the overall winner. But our gut feel is that this can be said with far more confidence with respect to the value of the US dollar on international currency markets than with US stock prices on Wall Street. At the most simplistic level, this instinct is probably coloured by what we saw just one week ago, when the Nasdaq had fallen to a mere 50 per cent of this year's peak - threatening to send other international stock markets into free-fall as well. Against where they stood at end-December 1999, all major stock indices were a negative shadow of their earlier levels - but the US dollar was still way ahead. This can probably be best explained by the fact that the first instinct of fund managers, an industry dominated by US-based players, was to flee to the safety of defensive US stocks or US Treasuries. The euro may have been an obvious beneficiary, but there was no massive flight of capital overseas. US treasuries, in particular, continue to be regarded as the best safe haven during financial storms. A decade of unprecedented US prosperity means that the stock, and new supplies, of such bonds have also shrunk considerably, as fiscal surpluses have accordingly exploded. Which brings us to our next point. The market has already built in prompt interest rate cuts by the Fed should things turn sour, because Mr Greenspan sounded more worried about a hard landing last week than he has been for a long time. But let's not forget that he also expressed concern that the US banking system should continue to keep the US economic engine running if conditions suddenly deteriorate. And this is the biggest landmine in the way of a smooth ride ahead, because the US has become a lot more heavily indebted at the international as well as domestic levels. Private sector debt now stands at a record 150 per cent of US gross domestic product (GDP), and US personal savings have become negative for the first time since the 1930s. The US current account deficit of some US$400 billion (S$693.9 billion) now tips the scales at 4.5 per cent of GDP, versus 1.7 per cent as recently as 1997. The harsh reality is that if banks are already overloaded with corporate and personal debt that's made more doubtful (remember what caused Bank of America's profit warning last week?) by a sudden downturn, they are unlikely to react to even hefty Fed interest rate cuts. And let's not forget that a prudent Mr Greenspan may prefer to wait and see if a Bush presidency does carry through campaign promises to deliver large tax cuts - in effect delaying the expected Fed interest rate cuts the market has already priced in. An economy that's still running pretty close to full capacity simply cannot afford the explosive effect of both tax and interest rate cuts. That would spell a whole lot more trouble than mere irrational exuberance - for the US as well as the rest of the world. Money Matters will resume on Jan 10. 

Document stbt000020010817dwcr00a99




 MARKET TALK: March S&Ps Turn Positive 

1,264 words
26 December 2000
20:38
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by George Stahl
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



3:38 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps, which have started to turn positive
because of a short squeeze as some traders had been predicting, have
crossed resistance at 1330. Above that, the contract has layered
resistance at 1336,  1347 and 1354. March Nasdaqs, also retracing steps,
have a ways to go before their recovery is deemed meaningful. March
Nasdaqs have resistance at Friday's high of 2475, which the contract
took out earlier in the day, and above that at 2502 and 2555. (ZHS)



3:27 (Dow Jones) Sure there are promising drugs in its pipeline, but
the Genencor (GCOR) products intriguing First Union Securities analyst
Anna Kazanchyan have nothing to do with medicine. The Protein Polymer
Technologies Inc. (PPTI) pact announced Friday gives Genencor world-wide
rights for materials that could be used in microscopic chips, switches
and other so-called nanotechnology. "We believe the novel biomaterials
developed," she says, "should allow Genencor to target significant
commercial opportunities in high-growth markets." She reiterates her
strong buy and a 12-month price target of $45. The stock recently traded
at $13.94. (MER)



3:09 (Dow Jones) Stock futures are expected to end the day higher with
efforts to squeeze shorts out of the market underway, floor traders
said. "I have a feeling we're going to catch a bid in late afternoon - a
repeat of Friday," said one floor trader who predicted a short squeeze.
"We're going to go out on our highs." (ZHS)



2:57 (Dow Jones) La-Z-Boy's (LZB) profit warning for its fiscal third
quarter estimates  drew little more than a ho and maybe a hum from First
Union Securities analyst John Baugh. What with the slowing economy, he
has been expecting all the residential furniture companies he follows to
guide him down. What has surprised him, he says, is "the rapidity at
which business conditions have deteriorated." Now he's worried his March
quarter estimates for the entire sector may be too high. He cut his
La-Z-Boy EPS estimates to $1.35 from $1.56 for 2001, to $1.60 from $1.70
for 2002. (MER)



2:43 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaqs reopen for trading above first limit,
trading recently at 2385.00, down 84.00. (ZHS)



2:42 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaqs fell to its first of five
exchange-imposed limits of 95 pts in afternoon trade on thin holiday
trading, extending weakness faced all day after the morning rally. A
10-minute trading curb was imposed after hitting limit down, with a
two-minute trading halt. The second limit for March Nasdaq is 190
points. (ZHS)



2:35 (Dow Jones) Stock futures trading hasn't recoverd the morning's
pace. "There is no one in here," said one Nasdaqs pit trader. Earlier,
Merrill Lynch was a big player, buying 300 March Nasdaqs and selling
March S&Ps, floor traders said. Carr futures was on both sides in S&Ps,
and other players included Morgan and Lehman as big buyers of Nasdaqs.
(ZHS)



2:26 (Dow Jones) In the post-Christmas holiday lull, options traders
who made it into the office focused on buying reasonably-priced
out-of-the-money call options, whose value increases as the underlying
stocks appreciate. Many of these investors concentrated on beaten down
stocks in the tech sector - perhaps betting that things will improve now
that much of the year-end, tax-loss selling is behind us. Call options
of such companies as Intel Corp. (INTC) and WorldCom Inc. (WCOM) all
were moderately active, in a day otherwise marked by light trading
volume. (KXT)



2:13 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps are, as one floor trader put it, "in
standstill mode with a risk to the downside" in the afternoon session
due to slow holiday trading. "Will they remain like this for the
remainder of the day, no doubt. Will they remain like this for the rest
of the week, that's questionable," said the trader adding that economic
data and earnings later in the week should ensure against anything but a
lackluster week. (ZHS)



2:04 (Dow Jones) Prudential Vector analyst John Sonnier sees even
brighter days for the strong buy-rated Texas Biotechnology Corp. (TXB).
He anticipates the company's clotbuster Argatroban, which SmithKline
Beecham PLC (SBH) markets, could post higher sales in 2001 than
originally expected. The drug received a lot of play at a hematology
symposium in early December, and last week Texas Biotech asked for
permission to expand Argatroban's label it as preventing a
Heparin-induced immune disorder that arises during certain coronary
procedures. Texas Biotech shares were recently off 3% at $8.39. (BMM)



1:49 (Dow Jones) T-bills auctions come in very weak, with rates way
higher than expectations, with 3M T-bill sold at 5.700% rate vs 5.470%
forecast and 6M T-bill sold at 5.500% vs. 5.420% forecast. Bid-to-cover
ratio, an indication of demand, at 1.66 for 3M and 2.14 for 6M. (JNP)



1:34 (Dow Jones) The major stock indexes continue to hover at or near
session lows. DJIA off 28 at 10607, Nasdaq down 52 at 2464. Gainers
outnumber losers on the Big Board but trading has been very light. (MER)



1:17 (Dow Jones) Retailers are slashing prices to clear out holiday
inventory built up based on comparatively flush trends last spring, says
Bear Stearns analyst Dana Telsey. Hence the price slashing that started
early Tuesday. Swinging the biggest axes, Telsey says, are Ann Taylor
(ANN), Williams-Sonoma (WSM) and the Gap (GPS). Offering the most
full-price items, according to Telsey, are Talbots (TLB) and Bebe Stores
(BEBE). (MER)



1:04 (Dow Jones) Locals are dominating trade in March S&Ps, floor
traders say, with volume remaining anemic. "If it wasn't for the fact
that a lot of people are gone, we'd probably be weaker," one trader
says. "The trend is still down and we don't have anything new to change
that." March Nasdaq weakness weighs on the market. (DMC)



12:58 (Dow Jones) There were 72.1 million visits to malls on the
Saturday before Christmas this year versus 67.6 million in 1999 (Dec.
18) according to RCT Systems, which electronically measures mall traffic
at one in six malls in the country.  There were 90 million department
store visits compared to 85.8 million in 1999, RCT said. (JM)



12:44 (Dow Jones) Futures contracts put about 1-in-3 odds on a Fed
rate cut before the FOMC's Jan. 30-31 meeting, according to
Bondtalk.com's Tony Crescenzi. "While those odds are lower than last
week when they were put at 50% when the markets were hoping that Fed
Chairman Alan Greenspan would play Santa Claus, hopes remain high - as
they always do this time of year," he said. (HJP)



12:40 (Dow Jones) Lehman Brothers has unwrapped some packaging stocks
and found some strong potential earnings growth in 2001. Several
positives, including falling resin prices and stronger free cash flow,
could drive 8%-10% EPS growth for the year, says Joel Tiss. Coupled with
slowdown-induced duress elsewhere, that "could help generate interest in
the sector once again," he says. Favorite picks are Ball Corp. (BLL),
AptarGroup (ATR), Avery Dennison, Sealed Air (SEE) and Pactiv. (MER)
--


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwcq04sqf




 MARKET TALK: From Tiny Things May Big Genencor Pfts Grow 

1,181 words
26 December 2000
20:27
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by George Stahl
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



03:27 (Dow Jones) Sure there are promising drugs in its pipeline, but
the Genencor (GCOR) products intriguing First Union Securities analyst
Anna Kazanchyan have nothing to do with medicine. The Protein Polymer
Technologies Inc. (PPTI) pact announced Friday gives Genencor world-wide
rights for materials that could be used in microscopic chips, switches
and other so-called nanotechnology. "We believe the novel biomaterials
developed," she says, "should allow Genencor to target significant
commercial opportunities in high-growth markets." She reiterates her
strong buy and a 12-month price target of $45. The stock recently traded
at $13.94. (MER)



03:09 (Dow Jones) Stock futures are expected to end the day higher
with efforts to squeeze shorts out of the market underway, floor traders
said. "I have a feeling we're going to catch a bid in late afternoon - a
repeat of Friday," said one floor trader who predicted a short squeeze.
"We're going to go out on our highs." (ZHS)



02:57 (Dow Jones) La-Z-Boy's (LZB) profit warning for its fiscal third
quarter estimates  drew little more than a ho and maybe a hum from First
Union Securities analyst John Baugh. What with the slowing economy, he
has been expecting all the residential furniture companies he follows to
guide him down. What has surprised him, he says, is "the rapidity at
which business conditions have deteriorated." Now he's worried his March
quarter estimates for the entire sector may be too high. He cut his
La-Z-Boy EPS estimates to $1.35 from $1.56 for 2001, to $1.60 from $1.70
for 2002. (MER)



02:43 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaqs reopen for trading above first limit,
trading recently at 2385.00, down 84.00. (ZHS)



02:42 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaqs fell to its first of five
exchange-imposed limits of 95 pts in afternoon trade on thin holiday
trading, extending weakness faced all day after the morning rally. A
10-minute trading curb was imposed after hitting limit down, with a
two-minute trading halt. The second limit for March Nasdaq is 190
points. (ZHS)



02:35 (Dow Jones) Stock futures trading hasn't recoverd the morning's
pace. "There is no one in here," said one Nasdaqs pit trader. Earlier,
Merrill Lynch was a big player, buying 300 March Nasdaqs and selling
March S&Ps, floor traders said. Carr futures was on both sides in S&Ps,
and other players included Morgan and Lehman as big buyers of Nasdaqs.
(ZHS)



02:26 (Dow Jones) In the post-Christmas holiday lull, options traders
who made it into the office focused on buying reasonably-priced
out-of-the-money call options, whose value increases as the underlying
stocks appreciate. Many of these investors concentrated on beaten down
stocks in the tech sector - perhaps betting that things will improve now
that much of the year-end, tax-loss selling is behind us. Call options
of such companies as Intel Corp. (INTC) and WorldCom Inc. (WCOM) all
were moderately active, in a day otherwise marked by light trading
volume. (KXT)



02:13 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps are, as one floor trader put it, "in
standstill mode with a risk to the downside" in the afternoon session
due to slow holiday trading. "Will they remain like this for the
remainder of the day, no doubt. Will they remain like this for the rest
of the week, that's questionable," said the trader adding that economic
data and earnings later in the week should ensure against anything but a
lackluster week. (ZHS)



02:04 (Dow Jones) Prudential Vector analyst John Sonnier sees even
brighter days for the strong buy-rated Texas Biotechnology Corp. (TXB).
He anticipates the company's clotbuster Argatroban, which SmithKline
Beecham PLC (SBH) markets, could post higher sales in 2001 than
originally expected. The drug received a lot of play at a hematology
symposium in early December, and last week Texas Biotech asked for
permission to expand Argatroban's label it as preventing a
Heparin-induced immune disorder that arises during certain coronary
procedures. Texas Biotech shares were recently off 3% at $8.39. (BMM)



01:49 (Dow Jones) T-bills auctions come in very weak, with rates way
higher than expectations, with 3M T-bill sold at 5.700% rate vs 5.470%
forecast and 6M T-bill sold at 5.500% vs. 5.420% forecast. Bid-to-cover
ratio, an indication of demand, at 1.66 for 3M and 2.14 for 6M. (JNP)



01:34 (Dow Jones) The major stock indexes continue to hover at or near
session lows. DJIA off 28 at 10607, Nasdaq down 52 at 2464. Gainers
outnumber losers on the Big Board but trading has been very light. (MER)



01:17 (Dow Jones) Retailers are slashing prices to clear out holiday
inventory built up based on comparatively flush trends last spring, says
Bear Stearns analyst Dana Telsey. Hence the price slashing that started
early Tuesday. Swinging the biggest axes, Telsey says, are Ann Taylor
(ANN), Williams-Sonoma (WSM) and the Gap (GPS). Offering the most
full-price items, according to Telsey, are Talbots (TLB) and Bebe Stores
(BEBE). (MER)



01:04 (Dow Jones) Locals are dominating trade in March S&Ps, floor
traders say, with volume remaining anemic. "If it wasn't for the fact
that a lot of people are gone, we'd probably be weaker," one trader
says. "The trend is still down and we don't have anything new to change
that." March Nasdaq weakness weighs on the market. (DMC)



12:58 (Dow Jones) There were 72.1 million visits to malls on the
Saturday before Christmas this year versus 67.6 million in 1999 (Dec.
18) according to RCT Systems, which electronically measures mall traffic
at one in six malls in the country.  There were 90 million department
store visits compared to 85.8 million in 1999, RCT said. (JM)



12:44 (Dow Jones) Futures contracts put about 1-in-3 odds on a Fed
rate cut before the FOMC's Jan. 30-31 meeting, according to
Bondtalk.com's Tony Crescenzi. "While those odds are lower than last
week when they were put at 50% when the markets were hoping that Fed
Chairman Alan Greenspan would play Santa Claus, hopes remain high - as
they always do this time of year," he said. (HJP)



12:40 (Dow Jones) Lehman Brothers has unwrapped some packaging stocks
and found some strong potential earnings growth in 2001. Several
positives, including falling resin prices and stronger free cash flow,
could drive 8%-10% EPS growth for the year, says Joel Tiss. Coupled with
slowdown-induced duress elsewhere, that "could help generate interest in
the sector once again," he says. Favorite picks are Ball Corp. (BLL),
AptarGroup (ATR), Avery Dennison, Sealed Air (SEE) and Pactiv. (MER)
--


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwcq04sq6




 MARKET TALK: Late Short Squeeze Seen In Stock Futures 

1,084 words
26 December 2000
20:08
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by George Stahl
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT
[O-DJCS A/70606



03:09 (Dow Jones) Stock futures are expected to end the day higher
with efforts to squeeze shorts out of the market underway, floor traders
said. "I have a feeling we're going to catch a bid in late afternoon - a
repeat of Friday," said one floor trader who predicted a short squeeze.
"We're going to go out on our highs." (ZHS)



02:57 (Dow Jones) La-Z-Boy's (LZB) profit warning for its fiscal third
quarter estimates  drew little more than a ho and maybe a hum from First
Union Securities analyst John Baugh. What with the slowing economy, he
has been expecting all the residential furniture companies he follows to
guide him down. What has surprised him, he says, is "the rapidity at
which business conditions have deteriorated." Now he's worried his March
quarter estimates for the entire sector may be too high. He cut his
La-Z-Boy EPS estimates to $1.35 from $1.56 for 2001, to $1.60 from $1.70
for 2002. (MER)



02:43 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaqs reopen for trading above first limit,
trading recently at 2385.00, down 84.00. (ZHS)



02:42 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaqs fell to its first of five
exchange-imposed limits of 95 pts in afternoon trade on thin holiday
trading, extending weakness faced all day after the morning rally. A
10-minute trading curb was imposed after hitting limit down, with a
two-minute trading halt. The second limit for March Nasdaq is 190
points. (ZHS)



02:35 (Dow Jones) Stock futures trading hasn't recoverd the morning's
pace. "There is no one in here," said one Nasdaqs pit trader. Earlier,
Merrill Lynch was a big player, buying 300 March Nasdaqs and selling
March S&Ps, floor traders said. Carr futures was on both sides in S&Ps,
and other players included Morgan and Lehman as big buyers of Nasdaqs.
(ZHS)



02:26 (Dow Jones) In the post-Christmas holiday lull, options traders
who made it into the office focused on buying reasonably-priced
out-of-the-money call options, whose value increases as the underlying
stocks appreciate. Many of these investors concentrated on beaten down
stocks in the tech sector - perhaps betting that things will improve now
that much of the year-end, tax-loss selling is behind us. Call options
of such companies as Intel Corp. (INTC) and WorldCom Inc. (WCOM) all
were moderately active, in a day otherwise marked by light trading
volume. (KXT)



02:13 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps are, as one floor trader put it, "in
standstill mode with a risk to the downside" in the afternoon session
due to slow holiday trading. "Will they remain like this for the
remainder of the day, no doubt. Will they remain like this for the rest
of the week, that's questionable," said the trader adding that economic
data and earnings later in the week should ensure against anything but a
lackluster week. (ZHS)



02:04 (Dow Jones) Prudential Vector analyst John Sonnier sees even
brighter days for the strong buy-rated Texas Biotechnology Corp. (TXB).
He anticipates the company's clotbuster Argatroban, which SmithKline
Beecham PLC (SBH) markets, could post higher sales in 2001 than
originally expected. The drug received a lot of play at a hematology
symposium in early December, and last week Texas Biotech asked for
permission to expand Argatroban's label it as preventing a
Heparin-induced immune disorder that arises during certain coronary
procedures. Texas Biotech shares were recently off 3% at $8.39. (BMM)



01:49 (Dow Jones) T-bills auctions come in very weak, with rates way
higher than expectations, with 3M T-bill sold at 5.700% rate vs 5.470%
forecast and 6M T-bill sold at 5.500% vs. 5.420% forecast. Bid-to-cover
ratio, an indication of demand, at 1.66 for 3M and 2.14 for 6M. (JNP)



01:34 (Dow Jones) The major stock indexes continue to hover at or near
session lows. DJIA off 28 at 10607, Nasdaq down 52 at 2464. Gainers
outnumber losers on the Big Board but trading has been very light. (MER)



01:17 (Dow Jones) Retailers are slashing prices to clear out holiday
inventory built up based on comparatively flush trends last spring, says
Bear Stearns analyst Dana Telsey. Hence the price slashing that started
early Tuesday. Swinging the biggest axes, Telsey says, are Ann Taylor
(ANN), Williams-Sonoma (WSM) and the Gap (GPS). Offering the most
full-price items, according to Telsey, are Talbots (TLB) and Bebe Stores
(BEBE). (MER)



01:04 (Dow Jones) Locals are dominating trade in March S&Ps, floor
traders say, with volume remaining anemic. "If it wasn't for the fact
that a lot of people are gone, we'd probably be weaker," one trader
says. "The trend is still down and we don't have anything new to change
that." March Nasdaq weakness weighs on the market. (DMC)



12:58 (Dow Jones) There were 72.1 million visits to malls on the
Saturday before Christmas this year versus 67.6 million in 1999 (Dec.
18) according to RCT Systems, which electronically measures mall traffic
at one in six malls in the country.  There were 90 million department
store visits compared to 85.8 million in 1999, RCT said. (JM)



12:44 (Dow Jones) Futures contracts put about 1-in-3 odds on a Fed
rate cut before the FOMC's Jan. 30-31 meeting, according to
Bondtalk.com's Tony Crescenzi. "While those odds are lower than last
week when they were put at 50% when the markets were hoping that Fed
Chairman Alan Greenspan would play Santa Claus, hopes remain high - as
they always do this time of year," he said. (HJP)



12:40 (Dow Jones) Lehman Brothers has unwrapped some packaging stocks
and found some strong potential earnings growth in 2001. Several
positives, including falling resin prices and stronger free cash flow,
could drive 8%-10% EPS growth for the year, says Joel Tiss. Coupled with
slowdown-induced duress elsewhere, that "could help generate interest in
the sector once again," he says. Favorite picks are Ball Corp. (BLL),
AptarGroup (ATR), Avery Dennison, Sealed Air (SEE) and Pactiv. (MER)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwcq04spr




 MARKET TALK: As Goes La-Z-Boy ... ? 

1,019 words
26 December 2000
19:56
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by George Stahl
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT
[O-DJCS A/70606



02:57 (Dow Jones) La-Z-Boy's (LZB) profit warning for its fiscal third
quarter estimates  drew little more than a ho and maybe a hum from First
Union Securities analyst John Baugh. What with the slowing economy, he
has been expecting all the residential furniture companies he follows to
guide him down. What has surprised him, he says, is "the rapidity at
which business conditions have deteriorated." Now he's worried his March
quarter estimates for the entire sector may be too high. He cut his
La-Z-Boy EPS estimates to $1.35 from $1.56 for 2001, to $1.60 from $1.70
for 2002. (MER)



02:43 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaqs reopen for trading above first limit,
trading recently at 2385.00, down 84.00. (ZHS)



02:42 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaqs fell to its first of five
exchange-imposed limits of 95 pts in afternoon trade on thin holiday
trading, extending weakness faced all day after the morning rally. A
10-minute trading curb was imposed after hitting limit down, with a
two-minute trading halt. The second limit for March Nasdaq is 190
points. (ZHS)



02:35 (Dow Jones) Stock futures trading hasn't recoverd the morning's
pace. "There is no one in here," said one Nasdaqs pit trader. Earlier,
Merrill Lynch was a big player, buying 300 March Nasdaqs and selling
March S&Ps, floor traders said. Carr futures was on both sides in S&Ps,
and other players included Morgan and Lehman as big buyers of Nasdaqs.
(ZHS)



02:26 (Dow Jones) In the post-Christmas holiday lull, options traders
who made it into the office focused on buying reasonably-priced
out-of-the-money call options, whose value increases as the underlying
stocks appreciate. Many of these investors concentrated on beaten down
stocks in the tech sector - perhaps betting that things will improve now
that much of the year-end, tax-loss selling is behind us. Call options
of such companies as Intel Corp. (INTC) and WorldCom Inc. (WCOM) all
were moderately active, in a day otherwise marked by light trading
volume. (KXT)



02:13 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps are, as one floor trader put it, "in
standstill mode with a risk to the downside" in the afternoon session
due to slow holiday trading. "Will they remain like this for the
remainder of the day, no doubt. Will they remain like this for the rest
of the week, that's questionable," said the trader adding that economic
data and earnings later in the week should ensure against anything but a
lackluster week. (ZHS)



02:04 (Dow Jones) Prudential Vector analyst John Sonnier sees even
brighter days for the strong buy-rated Texas Biotechnology Corp. (TXB).
He anticipates the company's clotbuster Argatroban, which SmithKline
Beecham PLC (SBH) markets, could post higher sales in 2001 than
originally expected. The drug received a lot of play at a hematology
symposium in early December, and last week Texas Biotech asked for
permission to expand Argatroban's label it as preventing a
Heparin-induced immune disorder that arises during certain coronary
procedures. Texas Biotech shares were recently off 3% at $8.39. (BMM)



01:49 (Dow Jones) T-bills auctions come in very weak, with rates way
higher than expectations, with 3M T-bill sold at 5.700% rate vs 5.470%
forecast and 6M T-bill sold at 5.500% vs. 5.420% forecast. Bid-to-cover
ratio, an indication of demand, at 1.66 for 3M and 2.14 for 6M. (JNP)



01:34 (Dow Jones) The major stock indexes continue to hover at or near
session lows. DJIA off 28 at 10607, Nasdaq down 52 at 2464. Gainers
outnumber losers on the Big Board but trading has been very light. (MER)



01:17 (Dow Jones) Retailers are slashing prices to clear out holiday
inventory built up based on comparatively flush trends last spring, says
Bear Stearns analyst Dana Telsey. Hence the price slashing that started
early Tuesday. Swinging the biggest axes, Telsey says, are Ann Taylor
(ANN), Williams-Sonoma (WSM) and the Gap (GPS). Offering the most
full-price items, according to Telsey, are Talbots (TLB) and Bebe Stores
(BEBE). (MER)



01:04 (Dow Jones) Locals are dominating trade in March S&Ps, floor
traders say, with volume remaining anemic. "If it wasn't for the fact
that a lot of people are gone, we'd probably be weaker," one trader
says. "The trend is still down and we don't have anything new to change
that." March Nasdaq weakness weighs on the market. (DMC)



12:58 (Dow Jones) There were 72.1 million visits to malls on the
Saturday before Christmas this year versus 67.6 million in 1999 (Dec.
18) according to RCT Systems, which electronically measures mall traffic
at one in six malls in the country.  There were 90 million department
store visits compared to 85.8 million in 1999, RCT said. (JM)



12:44 (Dow Jones) Futures contracts put about 1-in-3 odds on a Fed
rate cut before the FOMC's Jan. 30-31 meeting, according to
Bondtalk.com's Tony Crescenzi. "While those odds are lower than last
week when they were put at 50% when the markets were hoping that Fed
Chairman Alan Greenspan would play Santa Claus, hopes remain high - as
they always do this time of year," he said. (HJP)



12:40 (Dow Jones) Lehman Brothers has unwrapped some packaging stocks
and found some strong potential earnings growth in 2001. Several
positives, including falling resin prices and stronger free cash flow,
could drive 8%-10% EPS growth for the year, says Joel Tiss. Coupled with
slowdown-induced duress elsewhere, that "could help generate interest in
the sector once again," he says. Favorite picks are Ball Corp. (BLL),
AptarGroup (ATR), Avery Dennison, Sealed Air (SEE) and Pactiv. (MER)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwcq04sp7


Newscast: Business news and stock report   

488 words
25 December 2000
CBS News: Morning News
CBSM
English
(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

JULIE CHEN, anchor:   

US markets are closed for the holiday, along with banks, government offices and most businesses. But in Tokyo, where the markets were open, the Nikkei was up nearly 4 percent overnight.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Tokyo Nikkei Average   

13,931.61   

up 504.53   

Change: up 3.76%   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

CHEN: Those numbers, on the heels of Friday's pre-holiday rally, may bode well for the week ahead. Here's CBS MarketWatch correspondent Renay San Miguel.   

RENAY SAN MIGUEL reporting:   

Christmas week usually isn't just a good one for those who are on the right side of Santa's naughty and nice list. Traditionally, investors enjoy gains on this week. And they could use it after the last few months.   

The Dow finished Friday up 148 points, thanks to some bargain hunting among the tech stocks that have taken a beating lately.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Dow Jones Industrials   

Last 10,635.56   

Change +148.27   

Volume 1,090,662,500   

SAN MIGUEL: Financials, oil stocks and biotechs also saw gains. The tech buying gave the NASDAQ a big boost.   

(Graphic on screen)   

NASDAQ Composite   

Last 2,517.02   

Change +176.90   

SAN MIGUEL: When the Internet shares are flying into buyers' hands, you know it must be Christmas. But computer, networking and telecommunications stocks did most of the heavy lifting.   

Here is an example of how some of the big names in the tech space ended Friday.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Tech Winners   

Price Change IBM IBM 89.00 +7.44   

Cisco Systems CSCO 41.50 +2.63   

Qualcomm QCOM 85.00 +9.19   

SAN MIGUEL: IBM, which  Merrill Lynch had downgraded earlier last week, Cisco Systems and  QUALCOMM among the big winners.   

(Graphic on screen)   

In The Spotlight Price Change   

JDS Uniphase Corp. JSDU 40.94 -2.13   

Intel INTC 32.94 -0.19   

SAN MIGUEL: Fiber-optic company  JDS Uniphase and chip maker  Intel did not join the holiday party. Both got hit by negative comments from brokerages.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Profit Warning

Ford F   

Price 22.81   

Change -1.38   

SAN MIGUEL: And  Ford Motor Company took a detour. The carmaker suffering the effects of its late week profit warning, saying its fourth quarter would be less than expected because of parts shortages and bad weather.   

The markets are closed, of course, on Christmas Day. But they open up Tuesday getting ready for some new economic numbers from the government. Among them, consumer confidence and existing home sales. For more on the markets, click on cbs.marketwatch.com or go to America Online, keyword marketwatch. I'm Renay San Miguel, cbs.marketwatch.com, New York.   

CHEN: Straight ahead on the MORNING NEWS, your holiday weather forecast. And in sports, another Florida recount. The Dolphins recalled to the field 20 minutes after they thought they'd already beaten the Patriots.   

(Announcements)   

Document CBSM000020070818dwcp003fr




 How the markets moved - The year is ending with a whimper. 

 James Robinson. 
916 words
24 December 2000
The Scotsman
SC
22
English
(c) 2000

 ALL eyes will be on America as the year draws to a close. The US economy is on a knife-edge, with reports of struggling retailers and falling consumer confidence adding to trepidation about a possible hard landing, which would send tremors around the world. Those fears eased slightly on Friday, as Wall Street rallied and the Dow Jones Industrial Average and Nasdaq posted substantial gains. 

 The Dow closed up 148.27 at 10,635.56, a rise of 200 points over the week. In London, the FTSE 100 ended the day down 18 points at 6097.5 after curtailed trading. It fell 78.3 points over the week to close at a seven-month low. 

 With just three working days to go before the end of the year, the FTSE is down nearly 10 per cent, defying the bullish expectations of many City analysts. Optimistic predictions of a finish well above the 6,600 level proved to be wide of the mark, and the absence of the traditional end-of-year rally is likely to ensure an anti-climactic end to 2000. 

 It was an eventful week for the unfashionable building materials industry as another British company left the public sector. Boiler manufacturer Hepworth was bought by Vaillant, a private German radiator business, for 690m pounds cash in a deal announced on Thursday. The 285p-a-share offer is a 28 per cent premium on the price before Hepworth announced it had received an approach in October. Its shares closed up 28 and one half pence at 281and one half pence on Friday. 

 Cement company Blue Circle said on Monday that it expects to save more money than originally expected by implementing a cost-cutting programme announced when it was fighting a hostile bid from Lafarge. 

 The company, which is nervously awaiting a second approach from its French rival, saw its shares rise on the day of the announcement. However, they slipped back to end the week unchanged at 455p. 

 Concrete company RMC, which posted another profit warning last week, said recent bad weather has slowed building work and has hit demand for its products. But its shares rallied, despite the news, and closed 15 and one half pence higher at 577 and one half pence. 

 Hanson, which has been transformed from an unwieldy 1980s conglomerate into a rock-crushing company, bounced back into the FTSE 100 after a strong rally at the start of the week pushed it to the top of the reserve list by Thursday's close. Its shares climbed steadily from Monday's opening of 421 and one quarter pence to end the week at 459p. 

 Hanson is filling a space that has been created by the merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham. The deal - which creates the world's largest drug company by sales - was finally given the go ahead by American competition authorities a fortnight ago and was rubber-stamped by the High Court last Wednesday. 

 Retailer Matalan narrowly missed out on promotion to the FTSE, as did Scottish & Newcastle - which has bounced in and out of the blue-chip index all year. 

 Hanson's place in the FTSE 250 will be taken by Beazer, which agreed to merge with fellow housebuilder Bryant 10 days ago. 

 Transport company Stagecoach saw its shares climb on Thursday following reports that its joint venture with Sir Richard Branson's Virgin Rail looks set to lose the fight to run the East Coast main line. The news was viewed as a blessing in disguise by investors. Relief that the company will not be exposed to the huge cost of upgrading the line pushed Stagecoach shares up from 58p to 66 and one quarter pence. 

 Retailers were once again under the spotlight as the crucial Christmas trading period got into full swing. Dixons announced on Friday that its sales are in line with expectations - news that pushed shares in the company skywards on expectations that it is set for a bumper year. They put on 7 and three quarters pence to close at 225 and three quarters pence. 

 Shares in J Sainsbury, Britain's second-biggest supermarket chain, were up on the week after it finally sold Homebase, the DIY business it put on the market earlier this year with a price tag of around #1bn. The complicated deal, which will raise #939m, was greeted with relief in the City, which had expected it to be completed two months ago. Sainsbury shares were hit earlier in the week by claims that Asda has overtaken it to claim a bigger share of the UK market, but they still added 10 and one half pence over the week to close at 399p. 

 Hilton Group realised #235m on Friday when it sold its Ladbroke Casinos arm to Gala Group in a deal first revealed by Sunday Business. It shares moved ahead 11p to end the week at 206 and three quarters pence. 

 Around 15 directors and staff at stockbroker Peel Hunt became instant millionaires after the company was sold to Belgian bank KBC for #265m last Monday. Founders and major shareholders Charlie Peel and Christopher Holdsworth Hunt will net around #50m and #30m respectively for their stakes. The two set up the company 11 years ago after leaving Morgan Grenfell. KBC paid 450p a share, a premium of more than 50 per cent on Peel Hunt's February flotation price of 300p. 

Document sc00000020010816dwco00ted


 US surge sidesteps Australia. 

312 words
24 December 2000
Sunday Telegraph
SUNTEL
75
English
(c) 2000 Nationwide News Proprietary Ltd

 US stocks staged an impressive Santa Claus rally on Friday, with the Nasdaq surging 7 per cent as investors scooped up over-sold technology stocks on the last trading day before Christmas. 

 The Nasdaq closed up 176.9 points, or 7.6 per cent - its fifth biggest percentage gain ever - at 2517.1, and the Dow Jones industrial average closed up 148.3, or 1.4 per cent, at 10,635.6. The S&P 500 ended up 31 points, or 2.4 per cent, at 1305.9. 

 On the local market, hope for any pre-Christmas good tidings for investors was dashed after several profit warnings were issued by Australian companies on Friday, despite strong gains by banks and telecommunications stocks. 

 The All Ordinaries closed a modest 9.2 points higher at 3142.9, while the benchmark ASX200 closed 10.2 points higher at 3196. 

 On Friday, following Lend Lease's profit warning earlier in the week, it was oil refiner Caltex Australia's turn to share bad news. 

 Caltex had already warned that year to December earnings would fall by between $10 million and $20 million but now says the impact may be felt till March. 

 Caltex was not alone. 

 Car and truck retailer Adtrans also said its earnings would fall by 30 per cent while Paint manufacturer Wattyl expects its half year profit to be only half of last year's $9.9 million. 

 Paper company CPI, health group Blackmores, information provider Infochoice, and high tech company Smart Communications all issued warnings. 

 The Commonwealth Bank was the standout performer, gaining $1.13 to end at $31.70. 

 Injecting some gloom was Newscorp, down 31c to $14.10, whilst Rio Tinto dropped 59.3c to $28.40. 

 The Australian dollar looks to be returning to health, posting a three month record high of US55.70c. 

Document suntel0020010817dwco00byp




 INVESTORS LICK WOUNDS AMID FRAGILE RECOVERY BY RAY HEATH... 

605 words
22 December 2000
The Evening Standard
NS
English
(c) 2000

 INVESTORS LICK WOUNDS AMID FRAGILE RECOVERY BY RAY HEATH Asian investors had a chance to lick their wounds today as the modest overnight recoveries on Wall Street and Nasdaq stabilised stocks after yesterday's region-wide plunge.It was a fragile recovery in most markets with no sign of any real confidence that the recent sell-off had signalled the end of the bear market.Tokyo stocks failed to hold the best of the morning gains, and after touching 13,517 in early trade, the gain in the Nikkei 225 Average was pared to a mere 3.87 points at 13,427.08 as a profits warning from Lucent Technologies in the US unsettled computer-related stocks.NTT Docomo, Japan's largest mobile phones operator, was a rare winner, putting on almost 3% as bargain hunters moved in on the stock which has lost almost a quarter of its value in six trading days. 

  The rebound held up in the face of plans by the company to raise US$9 billion through stock sales in next year's first quarter.An early leap of nearly 200 points by Hong Kong's Hang Seng index could not be sustained, and by lunchtime the gain had been reduced to a modest 92.99 points improvement at 14,752.31. Mobile phones operators and banks put some spark into Hong Kong's market. After taking some of the biggest hits in this week's dive, China Mobile was chased up almost 2%, while HSBC Holdings began to retrace some of the ground it had lost since touching HK$117.50 earlier this month, and added 0.5 cents to HK$111.50.Any chance of a recovery in Taiwan stocks was squashed by a warning from chip-maker United Microelectronics Corporation that analysts' profit forecasts were over-optimistic. The shares slipped 0.5%, and have dived almost 30% this week. The continuing slide pulled the Weighted index down six points to 4811.22. An early rally in South Korea faded under the weight of index futures selling by foreign investors and the Kospi was down 11.3 points at 500.6. Technology stocks continued to track down, and bank shares were knocked by the beginning of strike action by employees and reports of bankruptcy of a merchant bank.Interest rate hopes, rather than slowing economy fears, inspired some buying of Singapore banks stocks, and the Straits Times index moved up 6.54 points to 1905.38.Thailand stocks eased on selling of shares by overseas investors on reports that next year foreigners will be able to buy stocks reserved for locals, so reducing the premium on the so-called foreign board. The SET fell 0.39 points to 269.46.Blue-chips led Malaysia stocks higher, and lifted the Kuala Lumpur Composite 1.63 points to 702.59. Malaysian Airline Systems firmed following the sale by the former controlling shareholder of his 29.9% to the government. Year-end window dressing in Indonesia added 2.25 points to 417.36 to the Jakarta Composite. Telecommunications stocks lifted the Sydney market after C&W Optus confirmed there were serious bids on the table for its assets, while there were local reports that Vodafone was ready to bid for the whole company. C&W shares bounced up 8%, feeding a rally in the All Ordinaries which gained 0.8 of a point to 3134.5.Bank shares continued to underpin the market, while property developer Lend Lease, which had crashed 27% this week on profit warnings, recovered by 5%. 

Document ns00000020010815dwcm00632




 Telecom firms warn amid industry upheaval. 

 By Yukari Iwatani 
873 words
22 December 2000
08:54
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 CHICAGO, Dec 21 (Reuters) - The alarm bells are ringing in the telecommunications industry. 

 The effects of a massive upheaval brought on by fierce competition in the long-distance market, price-cutting and new technology have shown up in profit warnings by the likes of AT&T Corp. and Lucent Technologies Inc. . 

 The sector's woes have spared few companies. 

 "The list of those doing well is getting shorter and shorter," said Eric Buck, telecommunications equipment industry analyst with Wasserstein Perella Securities. 

 Following AT&T's warning, shares of the No. 1 U.S. long-distance telephone and cable television company closed down $1-14/16 at $17-1/16 on the New York Stock Exchange, a level unseen in at least a decade. 

 Lucent dropped $1-5/16 to $14-3/16, the lowest level since the since the spring of 1997. Lucent was the most active issue on the NYSE on Thursday and AT&T the second. 

 The North American Telecommunications Index has fallen more than 30 percent this year and has underperformed the broader Standard & Poor's 500 index by about 24 percent. 

 The sharp sell-off contrasts heavily with last year when the value of telecom stocks more than doubled. 

 "Since the telecom infrastructure and telecom industry is changing so rapidly, I think investors don't have much visibility going forward in terms of market share dynamics and how quick the changes will come and who the winners will be," said Patrick Comack, telecoms analyst with Guzman & Co. 

 A LONG LIST OF WARNINGS 

 AT&T and Lucent joins a lengthening roster of companies that have warned on their profits. 

 Among long-distance firms, both WorldCom Inc. and Sprint Corp. slashed growth outlooks through 2001 last month. Clinton, Mississippi-based WorldCom and Kansas City, Missouri-based Sprint are the No. 2 and No. 3 long-distance carriers in the United States. 

 Although analysts still maintain that Baby Bells are the safest bet in the U.S. telecom sector, San Antonio, Tex.-based SBC Communications Inc. warned earlier this week that its earnings will be lower than expected next year. 

 The slate of profit warnings have prompted telecom firms that are doing well to reassure their investors. 

 For example, telephone and data services provider Qwest Communications International Inc. on Thursday said its fourth-quarter and full-year earnings would meet or beat Wall Street estimates. 

 In a conference call, Chief Executive Joseph Nacchio said the No. 4 U.S. long-distance provider decided to issue the statement after it was swamped by calls from investors. He said some of the recent warnings "have cast an unnecessary negative tone over the market in the last few days." 

 Qwest stock rose $5-1/8, or nearly 16 percent, to $37-1/2, but was still way down from its year-high of $66-13/16. 

 DIALING UP TROUBLE 

 Long-distance carriers are saddled with the most challenges as they fight to survive in an intensely competitive environment where companies lure consumers with promises of lower per-minute rates, analysts said. 

 "There's been an ongoing concern about pricing in the voice market," Anthony Ferrugia, analyst with A.G. Edwards, said. 

 Comack said carriers also were being pressured by market share loss to other long-distance technologies such as wireless and voice-over Internet. 

 This will only worsen as the Baby Bells gain regulatory approval to offer long-distance services, analysts said. 

 In order to remain competitive when that happens, long-distance carriers will need to transform their businesses and offer other services like data, they said. 

 "(The upheaval) will leave them looking drastically different than they are today. In all likelihood, (they will be) significantly smaller and much more reliant on products and services other than long distance," said Gary Jacobi, analyst with Deutsche Banc Alex Brown. 

 In the telecommunications equipment sector, analysts said Lucent's problems in keeping up with rapidly changing technology highlighted the challenges that all equipment firms will increasingly face. 

 Lucent had blamed its lowered profit expectation partially on being late in launching an advanced fiber optic system. 

 BABY BELLS STILL THE SAFEST BET 

 The Baby Bells also are expected to encounter a few bumps as well although their outlook appears to be better than the long-distance companies. 

 Just as SBC blamed its profit warning partially on delays in offering long-distance service, others may also report similar delays. 

 Tim Ghriskey, portfolio manager of Dreyfus Fund, pointed out that the relatively slow rollout of high-speed digital subscriber lines (DSLs) was also an issue among the Baby Bells. Dreyfus Fund owns 200,000 shares of AT&T. DSL offers high-speed Internet access over regular phone wires. 

 Nevertheless, analysts agree that Baby Bells have the most to gain when the dust settles, especially as many of their smaller local competitors run out of cash and close down. 

 Once viewed as stodgy utilities, Baby Bell stocks have shown modest gains this year and provided a safe-haven for investors whipsawed by the turbulent sector. 

 "(The long-distance stocks) are looking increasingly like bargains. However, we would still lean more toward regional Bells," Ghriskey said. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcm09g1r


BUSINESS
BUSINESS UPDATE

766 words
22 December 2000
Peoria Journal Star
PRJS
ALL
A11
English
Copyright 2000, Peoria Journal Star. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

Stocks close higheron bargain-hunting

NEW YORK - Investors sought bargains on Wall Street Thursday, sending blue chips soaring and even pushing the Nasdaq up - if barely - for the first time in eight sessions.

Overall, the market shrugged off a spate of profit warnings and its fears that the economy is slowing too much. The Dow Jones industrial average closed sharply higher, up 168.36 to 10,487.29.

The technology-focused Nasdaq composite index climbed 7.34 to 2,340.12, ending its seven-session losing streak. The slim gain was hard won as the Nasdaq waffled between positive and negative territory throughout the session.

The Standard and Poor's 500 index rose 10.12 to 1,274.86.

Advancing issues outnumbered decliners 7 to 5 on the New York Stock Exchange where consolidated volume was 1.77 billion shares, up from 1.74 billion on Wednesday.

The Russell 2000 Index, which tracks the performance of smaller companies, was up 3.23 at 447.03.

-- Economic growthfalls to four-year low

WASHINGTON, D.C. - The economy braked to a four-yearlow in growth of just 2.2 percent in the July-September quarter, further evidence that America's booming economy is rapidly cooling off.

A downward revision Thursday by the Commerce Department in the gross domestic product for the third quarter sent private economists scurrying to lower their forecasts the current quarter and next year.

While few are predicting an outright recession, many said the economy has definitely entered a ''growth recession'' in which output keeps expanding but at such a slow pace that the unemployment rate rises.

In another sign that the slowdown is having an impact, the Labor Department said Thursday that the number of Americans filing first-time claims for jobless benefits rose by 34,000 to 354,000 last week, pushing the four-week moving average to the highest level in more than two years.

-- Lucent Technologiesissues profit warning

TRENTON, N.J. - Lucent Technologies shares slid to a new three-year low Thursday after the communications equipment maker said it will post a much bigger loss than expected this quarter, the fifth time this year it has warned of disappointing results.

New chief executive Henry Schacht said he plans to cut $1 billion in operating costs to help return the company to profitability and restore confidence on Wall Street.

But even as Schacht promised that 2001 will be ''a rebuilding year, a turnaround year for Lucent,'' the company's stock price slumped 8.5 percent, falling $1.31 per share to $14.19 in Thursday's trading on the New York Stock Exchange.

At one point, the stock fell as low as $12.50 per share, down from a peak of $84.18 late last year and only $5 above where Lucent began trading after it was spun off by AT&T through an initial public offering in early 1996.

-- Xerox warns of softerfourth-quarter earnings

STAMFORD, Conn. - Xerox Corp., struggling with slow sales of its copiers and a deflated stock price, warned Thursday that it expects a decline in its fourth-quarter earnings.

The office equipment maker did not say how steep the decline would be, only that a ''softer'' fourth-quarter performance is likely.

The company also said it has drawn down the remaining balance of its $7 billion revolving credit agreement, but said its liquidity has improved with the completion of its previously announced $550 million sale of its China operations to Fuji Xerox Co. Ltd. Xerox said a portion of the credit line was used to repay maturing debt.

Including proceeds from the China sale, the company's current cash balance is about $1.4 billion, up from $154 million on September 30.

Xerox shares were down $1.19, or almost 20 percent, to close at $4.81 a share Thursday on the New York Stock Exchange.

-- Ford Motor Co. warnson first-quarter profits

DETROIT - Ford Motor Co. lowered estimates for fourthquarter earnings Thursday, and said it will cut production next month with a series of plant shutdowns at 16 North American factories affecting thousands of workers.

Ford's move follows similar production cuts and earnings warnings from General Motors Corp. and DaimlerChrysler AG, all of which have found themselves stuck with thousands of extra vehicles amid falling demand for new cars and trucks in the United States.

''It's clear that U.S. economic growth is slowing, and surveys of consumer sentiment point to lower levels of spending in the future,'' Martin Inglis, vice president of Ford North America, said in a statement.

Document PRJS000020100604dwcm00727


Newscast: Market numbers   

158 words
22 December 2000
Minnesota Public Radio: Marketplace Morning Report
MKMR
English
(c) Copyright 2000, Minnesota Public Radio. All Rights Reserved.   

CHERYL GLASER, anchor:   

It wasn't full speed ahead on Wall Street yesterday, but the stock market did manage to get out of first gear. After days of selling brought on by corporate profit warnings, investors did a little bargain hunting. That sent the Dow Jones industrial average up 168 points, or more than 1.6 percent to close at 10,487. The S&P 500 rose 8/10ths of 1 percent, and the NASDAQ picked up 3/10ths of 1 percent to end a seven-session losing streak. Bond prices wrapped up the day pretty much unchanged, leaving the yield on the 10-year Treasury at 5.03 percent. The stock market could hit the brakes today, though, due to a profit warning from  Ford Motor Company. Trading overseas relatively quiet. As we head into the holiday weekend, London's FTSE is currently up about 1/4 of 1 percent.   

This is MARKETPLACE.   

Document MKMR000020070820dwcm003e6




 Frankfurt stocks have miserable pre-Christmas week 

451 words
22 December 2000
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 FRANKFURT, Dec 22 (AFP) - The Frankfurt stock exchange suffered a miserable pre-Christmas week, cast in gloom by a sharp fall on the US technology-heavy Nasdaq and by the US Federal Reserve's fears about the US economy. 

 Over the week, the DAX index of 30 key Frankfurt stocks fell by 1.26 percent to close Friday at 6,251.4 points, against 6,331.3 points at the end of the previous week. 

 Technology stocks hammered the index yet again, threatening to drag the stock exchange to a lower close over the whole year for the first time since 1994. 

 But it was the new market for up-and-coming companies such as those in the Internet sector that suffered worst. The NEMAX 50 index dropped by 6.4 percent to close at 2,809.53 points, compared to 3,002.07 the previous week. 

 "The big losses on international markets came just after the US central bank's decision to leave interest rates unchanged," said a weekly stock market analysis by Vereinsbank. 

 "Brokers had expected that, but the decision also confirmed fears of a hard landing in the US economy." 

 Concerns over poor profits further undermined the market, said another market report by Commerzbank. 

 "Several profit warnings helped spoil sentiment," said the report. 

 The market had rallied Monday in a technical reaction to the previous week's losses, traders said. The DAX managed to make a further slight gain Tuesday ahead of the Fed's Open Market Committee decision on interest rates, while the NEMAX began to lose ground. 

 The following day, the NEMAX suffered a "black Wednesday", plunging 10.8 percent to a record low. On Thursday, the NEMAX broke new records, falling to its lowest level yet of 2,675.56 points. 

 The DAX also lost ground Wednesday and Thursday, but fared better than its high-tech counterpart. On Thursday, a profit warning by US telecommunications firm Lucent Technologies continued to gnaw at investor sentiment. 

 On Friday, the DAX and NEMAX found firmer footing. But the technical rally had little fundamental meaning because of the thin pre-holiday trade, brokers said. 

 There was little corporate news ahead of the Christmas holiday. 

 Among the worst performers on the DAX, business software giant SAP plunged 8.45 percent to 141.89 euros, compared to 155 euros at the end of the previous week. Siemens closed at 136.3 euros, slightly up from 134.99 euros a week before. Its semiconductor subsidiary Infineon finished the week at 40.06 euros, compared to 43.05 a week earlier. 

 Market heavyweight Deutsche Telekom dropped to 32.88 euros from 36.56. 

 yo/ylf/wai 

Document afpr000020010803dwcm05ed7




 WARNING OF SLOWDOWN IN THE US DAMPENS INVESTOR CHRISTMAS CHEER. 

 By REBECCA HOLMES. 
428 words
22 December 2000
Adelaide Advertiser
ADVTSR
25
English
(c) 2000 Advertiser Newspapers Limited

 Market's $11bn wipe-out 

 A SHARP selloff on Wall St overnight saw the national share market record one of its biggest falls of the year yesterday. The all ordinaries plunged 57.2 points, or 2 per cent, to 3133.7, for an $11 billion loss across the market. 

 At one stage during trading, the index was down more than 70 points. 

 Market heavyweights News Corp and Telstra were behind the slide, with Lend Lease also adding impetus to the selling. 

 Macquarie Day Cutten client adviser Lynton Sallis said the local market had followed Wall Street's performance, with the Dow Jones retreating 265 points to 10,319 while the Nasdaq tumbled 179 points, or more than 7 per cent, to 2333. 

 Mr Sallis said the Dow had reacted to Nasdaq's woes. 

 "A major US broker issued a series of downgrades on networking stocks, particularly Cisco Systems, which had the effect of bringing down a whole basket of stocks," he said. 

 Investors also remained traumatised by the US Federal Reserve's warning of a slowdown. 

 In other offshore markets, Tokyo's Nikkei lost 3.5 per cent to post a fresh 23-month closing low of 13,423 points while the Hang Seng ended 1.8 per cent weaker. 

 The Nikkei's decline was led by sharp falls in large-cap technology issues, including NTT DoCoMo. 

 On the local market, News Corp set the mood as its ordinary shares retreated by $1.12 to $14.41, and its preferred scrip lost 94c to $12.86. "Right across the media sector, stocks were down," Mr Sallis said. 

 "Seven still reacted a little bit on the back of people probably not too sure about what is happening with its potential loss of the AFL rights." 

 Seven Network shares slid 21c to $6.14 while Ten shares fell 8c to $2.23, PBL 5c to $12.95 and Fairfax Holdings 5c to $3.82. 

 The technology stock slide continued, with Keycorp off 27c to $8.68, Catuity 70c to $10.80, SecureNet 60c to $4.90 and Servecorp 30c to $5.40. 

 Telecommunications stocks were also rattled, with Telstra 19c lower at $6.27, C&W Optus 18c at $3.41, Hutchison 12c at $1.62 and ERG 15c at $2.55. 

 Lend Lease forfeited a further $2.52 to $15.78 as investors remained concerned about the company's profit warning. Skilled Engineering's shares slumped 17c to s85c after a first-half profit warning. 

Document advtsr0020010803dwcm00zmb


Newscast: Business news and stock report   

448 words
22 December 2000
CBS News: The Early Show
CBST
English
(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

JULIE CHEN, anchor:   

Time for this morning's MarketWatch with Alexis Christoforous. Good morning, Alexis.   

ALEXIS CHRISTOFOROUS reporting:   

Good morning, Julie.   

Well, we hope investors are in a holiday mood today. Early indications point to a higher open for stocks this morning.   

On Thursday, the Dow shrugged off a profit warning from  AT&T to rally 168 points to 10,487.   

(Graphic on screen)   

CBS MarketWatch cbs.marketwatch.com   

Dow Jones Industrials   

10,487.29   

up 168.36   

CHRISTOFOROUS: The NASDAQ snapped a seven-day losing streak. It inched up more than 7 points.   

(Graphic on screen)   

CBS MarketWatch cbs.marketwatch.com   

NASDAQ   

2,340.12   

up 7.34   

CHRISTOFOROUS: Two major defense contractors are walking down the aisle.  Northrop Grumman, the maker of the B-2 bomber, is buying  Litton Industries for $5 billion in cash and debt. That deal will create one of the nation's largest defense companies.   

And Ford is the latest to issue a profit warning, its second profit warning this month. The problem: Ford has too many cars and not enough buyers. It plans to scale back auto production next month.   

And keep your eye on  3Com. The networking company lost 15 cents a share in the latest quarter, but that was 5 cents less than expected.   

You can find all the market action at cbs.marketwatch.com, or AOL, keyword `marketwatch.' Julie.   

CHEN: All right. Thanks a lot, Alexis. Have a great holiday weekend.   

CHRISTOFOROUS: You do the same.   

CHEN: Thanks.   

And that is the news this morning. Now here are Jane and Russ.   

RUSS MITCHELL (Co-host): Thank you, Ms. Julie.   

JANE CLAYSON (Co-host): OK, ladies, thank you.   

MITCHELL: You're probably one of these people who finished shopping, like, a month ago, right?   

CLAYSON: No. Actually, I just finished yesterday.   

MITCHELL: Really?   

CLAYSON: But I'm done. And the Internet really helped me this year. Surprisingly...   

MITCHELL: I'm impressed.   

CLAYSON: ...all the presents got to where they're going in time. So that's a good thing.   

MITCHELL: Yeah. I'll be--I'll be out later today doing that.   

CLAYSON: You heard about Madonna's wedding?   

MITCHELL: I did. Who hasn't?   

CLAYSON: A big--big deal.   

MITCHELL: I got--I was invited. Weren't you?   

CLAYSON: You know something? I'm sure my invite's somewhere...   

MITCHELL: Yeah.   

CLAYSON: ...under all my pile of mail.   

MITCHELL: In Scotland this afternoon. That's right.   

CLAYSON: Yeah. We'll have that spectacle coming up next. Also, actors Omar Epps and Nicolas Cage, and a very Christmas mystery.   

MITCHELL: Ooh.   

CLAYSON: That and much more. We're back after this.   

(Announcements)   

Document CBST000020070818dwcm006zf


Newscast: Business news and stock report   

521 words
22 December 2000
CBS News: Morning News
CBSM
English
(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

JULIE CHEN, anchor:   

On Wall Street, something of a rebound Thursday after Wednesday's dismal showing. The Dow gained 168 points to 10,487.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Dow Jones Industrials   

10,487.29 up 168.36   

Volume: 1,449,940,000   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

CHEN: The NASDAQ managed to eke out a 7 point preholiday gain.   

(Graphic on screen)   

NASDAQ   

2,340.12 up 7.34   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

CHEN: And in Tokyo overnight, the Nikkei barely moved.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Tokyo Nikkei Average   

13,427.08 up 3.87   

Change: up 0.03%   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

CHEN: On the CBS MarketWatch, some of Thursday's winners and losers. Alexis Christoforous has the details.   

ALEXIS CHRISTOFOROUS reporting:   

Well, one day after stocks swan dived, investors did a little bargain hunting, especially among the blue chips. Investors snapped up financial and retail stocks.  JP Morgan,  Coca-Cola and  Wal-Mart fueled the Dow's rally.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Dow Winners   

JP Morgan (JPM)   

up 8.25 to 167.38   

Coca-Cola (KO)   

up 3.12 to 59.38   

Wal-Mart (WMT)   

up 2.81 to 51.75   

CHRISTROFOROUS: But shares of  AT&T and its spin-off Lucent both hit new lows after the company sounded more profit warnings. It was Lucent's fourth warning of the year. And Xerox warned of a wider-than-expected fourth quarter loss. It also said it used up all of its $7 billion credit line.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Profit Warnings   

AT&T (T)   

down 1.88 to 17.06   

Lucent (LU)   

down 1.31 to 14.19   

Xerox (XRX)   

down 1.19 to 4.81   

CHRISTOFOROUS: Here at the NASDAQ,  Palm, Inc. defied logic, the stock down nearly 33 percent, even though earnings beat the Street by a penny. Apparently strong sales of its Palm Pilot organizer weren't strong enough for some investors.   

Lots of after-the-bell action, as well. Ford now warns that fourth quarter earnings will be a dime below estimates. That's because of weak auto sales.  3Com said it lost less money than expected in the first quarter, a loss of 15 cents a share. And a big after-the-bell deal to tell you about.  Northrop Grumman will buy  Litton Industries for $5 billion in cash and debt. That deal will create one of the world's largest top-tier defense companies.   

(Graphic on screen)   

35.1 Billion Buyout   

Northrop Grumman (NOC)   

down .19 to 81.94   

Litton Industries (LIT)   

up .94 to 62.62   

CHRISTOFOROUS: And, of course, hope springs eternal on Wall Street, and some analysts think the Fed may provide some relief and cut interest rates before its next scheduled meeting at the end of January. We're expecting a quiet session today as traders gear up for the long holiday weekend. At the NASDAQ Marketsite, I'm Alexis Christoforous, cbs.marketwatch.com.   

CHEN: Straight ahead on the CBS MORNING NEWS, your holiday weekend forecast.   

And in sports, top-ranked Duke meets up with third-ranked Stanford, and the game is even closer than the rankings.   

(Announcements)   

Document CBSM000020070818dwcm003f9




News
This is the season for selling

Alan Kohler   
982 words
22 December 2000
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
Late
52
English
Copyright 2000. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.   

As usual in an economic slowdown, the peaking of the interest rate cycle is doing battle with profit downgrades. Do you buy equities because interest rates are about to start falling, or do you sell because every second company is issuing a profit warning?

The fact that the US market slumped after the US Federal Reserve changed its bias this week from neutral to easing shows that, at this stage, the profit warnings are winning. The punishment dealt out to Microsoft, Cisco and AT&T is ample evidence of that, and the breathtakingly savage reaction to the Lend Lease downgrade shows that this is no less true in the Australian market.

The investment timetable for the months ahead is now fairly clear. There is a fair chance of a cut in US rates of 25 basis points on January 31, followed by a "relief rally" in equity prices around the world. Then in February and March the profit reporting season for the first half of 2000-01 will be an absolute shocker and stocks will be sold off again as investors focus once more on the effect of the slowdown on earnings.

If you were betting on a soft landing for the US, that's when you would pin the ears back and buy, because there probably would be a sustained rally based on the valuation effect of the coming interest rate easings, both in the US and here, and adding, say, 100 points by June. If you believe the US is heading for a hard landing, you would have headed for the hills already, with your superannuation in the boot of the car.

Peter Osborne of Merrill Lynch says the past six interest rate cycles (since 1980) have produced four soft landings and two hard landings. In each case equity prices fell in the beginning at the same time as interest rates were cut because earnings fears were uppermost in investors' minds. When it became clear the landing would be soft, stocks took off again as the valuation effect took over. Needless to say, after the two hard landings things were ugly.

Sakthi Siva at UBS Warburg has charted stockmarket reactions to changes in the Fed bias from neutral to easing since 1990 and it shows something a bit more worrying. The only genuine "easing bias rally" was from September 1998, which was when the Fed reacted to the collapse of Long Term Capital Management rather than to fear of a sharp economic slowdown. In 1992 and 1996, the market went sideways.

The only time stocks were sold off sharply despite the change in policy bias to easing, apart from this week, was in July 1990 ahead of the last recession. The other nasty sign was Thursday's big bond market rally.

But the consensus among strategists is still for a soft landing, albeit with the risks very definitely on the downside. Steve Roach of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter appears to be among the more pessimistic, putting a 40 per cent chance on hard.

Roach makes the interesting point that this is not only the first economic cycle of the information age, but also the first to be shaped by the globalisation of inventories. Demand shortfalls now have the potential to be transmitted quickly through the global supply chain, which is what's happening with the US now: rising inventory-to-sales ratios in America are constraining production not just in that country but also around the world.

John Edwards of HSBC in Australia makes the point that the greater casualisation and flexibility of the workforce also means the slowdown is being rapidly transmitted to lower employment levels because of the greater ease in cutting numbers.

That, and the high level of personal debt, might produce a more aggressive easing cycle from central banks when it gets under way in the US in January or February.

One of the key issues for local investors now is how soon after Fed chairman Alan Greenspan eases rates will Reserve Bank Governor Ian Macfarlane recommend to his board that Australia follow suit. Typically it takes about six months, although obviously if there were genuine signs of a recession he would move more quickly.

The next RBA board meeting is in early February, and a US easing of 25 points on January 31 would put an interest rate cut firmly on its agenda. But there is almost no chance of a cut here on February 7.

By the way, a new expression starting to do the rounds is "rough landing" somewhere between hard and soft. The theory goes that this would be great for equities because there wouldn't be a recession, but monetary policy would be eased more aggressively anyway.

All of which is so much tea-leaf reading, of course. One thing we can be sure of is that by the time it is totally clear what sort of landing the US and the world are having, share prices will be lower than they are now possibly a lot lower. There is almost no doubt that except for transaction costs the best investment strategy for Christmas 2000 is sell now and buy in three months if there's no recession. If there is, leave it for six months.

The two bits of good news in all this and they are very good is that there has been neither an outbreak of inflation to drive up interest rates, as happened before the last two recessions, nor a credit crunch as banks react to the deterioration of their balance sheets following a collapse in asset prices. So far the bank credit squeeze is confined to telecommunications and technology firms, and they don't need any more money because they have built more than enough capacity both manufacturing and bandwidth to last everyone for a while.

Document AFNR000020111227dwcm00mfu




 Sell-offs scare market. 

 By Deidre Stark. 
239 words
22 December 2000
Courier Mail
COUMAI
1
English
(c) 2000 Queensland Newspapers Pty Ltd

 AUSTRALIAN investors are bracing today for another pre-Christmas share price collapse amid warnings of plunging company profits. The Australian stock market yesterday suffered some of its heaviest losses in months as spooked investors wiped $12 billion off the value of shares in listed companies. The All Ordinaries index tumbled 57.2 points as small investor favourites Telstra, AMP, Lend Lease and News Corp were abandoned after a panicked sell-off in New York. 

 Indicators pointing to a looming hard landing for the United States economy were compounded by a litany of profit warnings issued by major companies and a harsh warning by Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan on Tuesday. All the factors combined to slash 7.12 percent off the tech-heavy Nasdaq index, taking it to a 21-month low of 2332.8. Blue chip stocks also plummeted. Australian investors reacted yesterday by taking flight en masse to food, beer and bank stocks, unlikely to be hit drastically in hard times. "Greenspan's comments have really spooked the market," Hartely Poynton adviser Helen Spencer said. "It was a fairly brutal day across the board. But it looks like being a continuation of the same story tomorrow." She said a global telco company, AT&T, had issued 

 a serious profit warning

 after the US market 

 closed which could prompt further falls. Bush slips up, Page 8; 

 More reports, Page 29. 

Document coumai0020010805dwcm00wyq




 Us spending surveys hit share prices. 

 By (Financial Times Service). 
420 words
22 December 2000
Irish Times
IRTI
18
English
(c) 2000

 Frankfurt DAX: 6200.71(-48.05); Paris CAC 40: 5758.92(-7.38) 

 Technology and telecom companies came under renewed pressure from news from the US. In addition to profit warnings from AT&T and Lucent Technologies, there were also surveys by Morgan Stanley Dean Witter and Merrill Lynch indicating that spending on IT by big US companies would slow next year. Prices were volatile and many of the big price falls earlier in the day were reversed ads the US markets opened positively. Deutsche Telekom was down 6.3 per cent to E32.80 in late trade, a low for the year. Mr Ron Sommer, chief executive of Deutsche Telekom, has been briefing analysts over the past couple of days and some of the details are still being digested by the markets. One analyst said Deutsche Telekom was facing a poor fourth quarter in Germany, while its consultancy offshoot Debis Systemhaus may also have been hit by weakness at peers in the US. Deutsche Telekom's hare price is now below the 33 level at which VoiceStream, its US takeover target, could demand a renegotiation of the deal. But Mr Frank Wellendorf of WestB Panmure said this factor was "just psychological" because the terms only apply in the couple of weeks before the deal is closed, which may be six months away. Even if it was below 33, he believed "the deal will not fail" because VoiceStream sees Deutsche Telekom as an important partner in GSM phone technology. Dassault Systems made its debut on the blue-chip CAC 40 index in Paris with a 2 per cent drop to 72.55. Dassault, which has said it expects the French government to sell its 16 per cent stake next year, replaces Canal Plus on the CAC. Internet companies continued to reach record lows. Liberty Surf fell 2.2 per cent to E7.09, its lowest ever price. Salomon Smith Barney initiated coverage of the stock with a "neutral" recommendation and a target of E10. In Paris, CAI Chevreux raised its recommendation on Pernod saying the Seagram's acquisition was strategically interesting and added strong earnings potential. Pernod's shares rose 2.3 per cent to E70.10. Among financials, Italian bank Bipop-Carire denied suggestions that it planned to issue profits warning after the shares were hit by a wave of foreign selling. Bipop, suspended at one stage during the session, closed 9 per cent lower at E7.02. 

Document irti000020010811dwcm00x3o




 Glimmers of festive hope fail to light up December gloom of US profits warnings. 

 By Nevill Boyd Maunsell. 
563 words
22 December 2000
Birmingham Post
BMP
19
English
(c) 2000  Birmingham Post & Mail Ltd

 City View 

 Delivering a festive column on the eve of the Christmas break is normally a simple matter. 

 Even in years when nothing has gone particularly right, the stock market has a way of looking on the bright side in December, yielding to the human instinct to hope for the best in the New Year. 

 Anyway all those post-holiday share tips and brokers' crystal gazing generates a bit of momentum in January. 

 This time Wall Street and the secondary implosion of the technology bubble that first burst in March has put paid to any such facile jollity. 

 Yesterday Wall Streeters showed some signs of recovering their raw nerves. 

 But there was not a glimmer of joy from NASDAQ, which has now lost more than half its value since late March. 

 Millions of Americans who stampeded into the stock market during the boom are feeling poorer, spending less on computers or whatever this Christmas. 

 Wall Streeters seem not the least inclined to take comfort from Tuesday's statement from the Federal Reserve, reversing its previous stance to declare that an economic slowdown posed a greater threat than inflation. 

 The implication - that US interest rates will head downwards, to revive stock markets almost always go up when interest rates fall - has passed unnoticed. 

 Instead, the Fed's statement has been read in the context of a deluge of profit warnings and analysts' downgradings as a dire warning that the US economy is stalling. 

 So far there is no hard evidence that it is doing anything. The pace of growth has slowed - quite markedly - to an annual 2.2 per cent in the summer, less than at any time in the past four years. 

 But if had continued at the previous 5.6 per cent, there would have been a ripe old crisis with the Fed bumping up interest rates to cool things off. 

 As it is, the scene is set for President-elect Bush to unleash his promised tax cuts on an economy where they could be welcome. 

 Back home, the drama so far is second-hand. Our stock market cannot buck a 200-point slide by Wall Street's Dow, but there is no British-bred reason for it to follow the whole way. 

 True, we have our profit warnings, too. But one or two at a time, not American-style in half-dozens. 

 Some things are starting to go right. The wretched euro is finally getting up off its knees as mobile money flows back across the Atlantic. 

 Yesterday the pound lost the equivalent of three pfennigs against the old D-mark. 

 If that happened for several days in a row there would be talk of an old-style sterling crisis. But there is no reason why it should. 

 Yet for the first time in two years there is a serious prospect of the pound ceasing to be grossly over-valued - an alluring prospect for the West Midlands. 

 The oil-price bubble has burst, too. Brent crude was around $24 dollars a barrel yesterday. A month ago it was over $32. 

 The stock market may not have noticed, but some things are going right this gloom-laden December. 

 So make the most of Christmas and leave thoughts of the New Year for next week. 

Document bmp0000020010805dwcm007pd




 Global Economies Strike Discordant Note of Late --- Growth Rates Have Been Declining in Concert 

 By staff reporters Steve Liesman, Christopher Rhoads and Robert Frank 
1,931 words
22 December 2000
The Asian Wall Street Journal
AWSJ
1
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 When the U.S. Federal Reserve decided to keep its high-interest-rate policy in place in early October, it relied partly on its staff forecast that the U.S. would get help from overseas to offset its slowing growth. The Fed believed that "brisk growth abroad would boost the expansion of U.S. exports for some period ahead." 

 Just a month earlier, the International Monetary Fund gave the global economy a relatively clean bill of health: "Growth is projected to increase in all major regions of the world, led by the continued strength of the U.S. economy, the robust upswing in Europe, the consolidation of the recovery in Asia and the rebound from last year's slowdown in emerging markets." 

 Great minds, it seems, also err alike. With a suddenness that has surprised economists and corporate chieftains, the world's leading economies are all slowing in concert. 

 The U.S., Europe and Japan each saw growth rates decline in the third quarter. U.S. and foreign stock markets sold off sharply Wednesday, amid continuing disappointment about corporate earnings and the Federal Reserve's decision on Tuesday not to lower interest rates. Many Asian markets continued to weaken Thursday, including Japan, where stocks fell 3.5%. Most economists are cutting 2001 forecasts for overall global growth almost as fast as their computers can process the data. 

 And what was at first a concern about mature markets has now spilled over to the developing world. Latin America, where growth has been strong, could be beset by rapidly declining exports to the U.S. There are worries about creditworthiness in Argentina and Turkey that smack of a scaled-down version of the Asian financial crisis of 1998. Currency markets in Asia have signaled their jitters by driving down foreign-exchange values to levels unseen since the crisis. 

 "This is a global industrial slowdown," says Anervan Banerji, director of research at the Economic Cycle Research Institute in New York. 

 Few economists believe that the downturn will be severe or that the world economy is entering recession. Indeed, the latest projections by the World Bank say world growth will slow to a respectable 3.4% in 2001 from this year's estimated 4.1%. And some economists believe a healthy dose of interest-rate cuts and lower oil prices can quickly get world growth back on track. While the Fed decided not to cut rates on Tuesday, it did signal possible rate cuts in the months ahead by indicating that the main threat to the U.S. economy was slower growth, not overheating. 

 But for many companies around the world, the pressing problem may not be the depth of the global downturn but its width: a reflection of the increasing ties across global markets and the greater likelihood that what affects one will affect all. As in the 1998 crisis, the causes of this slowdown -- rising interest rates, higher oil prices and slumping financial markets -- have all been global rather than local phenomena. 

 At the center of this global macroeconomic village stands the U.S., whose GDP accounts for almost 30% of world output, up from 26% in 1992. U.S. companies now make up almost half of all world corporate profits, which is a 33% increase from a decade ago, according to Jeff Applegate, chief investment strategist at Lehman Bros. 

 At the same time, the 1990s' mantra of globalization has made U.S. corporations more dependent than ever on overseas revenue. The average company in the Dow Jones Industrial Average now derives about 40% of its revenue from outside the U.S., up from 35% in 1988, according to Ed Keon, director of quantitative research at Prudential Securities New York. 

 The seeds of the current downturn were sown by the vigorous expansion of 1999 and the first half of 2000, which sparked concern that supercharged growth could ignite inflationary pressures. The U.S. Federal Reserve was the first to act. In six increases over a year, it raised interest rates by 1.75 percentage points. 

 When the Fed talks, central banks around the world listen, especially those with currencies linked to the dollar. Other banks began raising their own rates. Even the Bank of Japan, where growth was the most fragile of all, added 0.25 percentage point to its bank rate. The European Central Bank, concerned about its newborn euro and potential inflation, added 2.25 percentage points to its bellwether interest rate during the course of six increases. 

 What blindsided the world's top bankers apparently was the persistence of high oil prices, which were buttressed by strong world growth. Consumer demand took a hit from prices at the pump, as well as a reduced wealth effect from swooning stock markets. The prospect of slower growth, in turn, generated fears about corporate credit quality, and bond markets began demanding higher interest rates on corporate debt. Companies found difficulty securing new capital as bankers raised credit standards. The free fall in many world stock markets, led by the Nasdaq Stock Market, made new equity issues unattractive. The technology bubble burst, creating what one economist called a global "tech wreck." 

 By the third quarter, the impact of the interest-rate increases, which can take a year or more to begin slowing the economy, began to register. The annualized U.S. third-quarter growth of 2.36% was a marked drop from the 5.65% recorded in the second quarter, and the fourth quarter is expected to be equally sluggish. Growth in Europe has declined to 2.8% in the third quarter from 3.2% in the second. Japan's Economic Planning Agency reported recently that growth in the world's second-largest economy slowed to an annual rate of just 1% in the third quarter. Worse, it revised the strong second-quarter growth figure of 4.2% to 1% as well, suggesting that the nation could be entering its fourth major economic slowdown in a decade. Growth in the rest of Asia is also slowing. 

 Did the world's central banks overdo it? Stephen Roach, international economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, argues that the Fed's recent talk of easing "is an implicit admission that if they had to do it all over again, they might not have gone as far." 

 It was late September when Eastman Kodak Co. executives noticed mounting but inexplicable signs of trouble in their business. To the Rochester, New York, maker of cameras and film, the world's shutterbugs abruptly seemed to stop clicking in unison. "The thing that's amazing is how fast, all of a sudden, it happened," Kodak's chief financial officer, Robert Brust, told analysts when the company rushed out its September earnings warning. 

 The most serious headwinds of all seemed to be coming from Europe, where rising oil prices, a sinking currency and rising interest rates were taking the luster off what for a time was a much-awaited acceleration in European growth. Growth in the 11 countries that make up the euro zone slowed to an annualized 2.8% in the third quarter from a peak in this cycle of 3.9% in the fourth quarter of 1999. 

 The ECB expects growth of between 3.2% and 3.6% in the region for 2000. In a new staff forecast -- the first to be made public under a new policy -- issued Wednesday, the bank said it expects growth in Europe to "decline slightly" next year "but to remain strong." 

 Around the time when Kodak was noticing its slowdown, auto executives in Europe were becoming concerned, too. Auto-parts giant Valeo SA, on the strength of optimistic auto-sales forecasts, ratcheted up its operating-margin targets for 2000. But within two months, the Paris-based company was forced to issue a profit warning, blaming higher costs for raw materials and slowing demand in the U.S. "Our traditional customers are decreasing their investment," Andre Navarri, Valeo's CEO, complained in a conference call to analysts in October. 

 While the slowdown in Europe was picking up pace in the summer, Asia's one-time tiger economies were beginning to show signs of stress. Until last spring, the region appeared to be recovering from the financial crisis of 1998. Much of the rebound, however, was built on exports to the U.S., especially electronics. As Americans snapped up personal computers, laptops and cell phones, Asian exporters rushed to fill demand -- from Taiwanese semiconductor chips to Malaysian memory boards to PCs assembled in the Philippines. Now, that demand, and the main source of Asia's hard currency, is slowing. Taiwan's Mosel Vitelic Inc., which makes memory chips, recently slashed its profit estimates for this year 55% because of weak PC demand. Sales of disk drives from Singapore fell 15.7% in October. 

 Already hobbled by a decline in consumer spending and rising oil prices, Southeast Asia saw its troubles deepened by political problems, especially in Thailand, the Philippines and Indonesia. General Motors Corp., which opened a $500 million assembly plant in Thailand this year, just scaled back its estimates of Thai auto sales for 2000 by 10% because of slowing demand. 

 The most worrisome signals, however, have just recently come out of Japan with its new, lower growth estimates. Among the problems are slowing exports to the U.S. While exports rose 2.8% in October, that was the smallest increase in 15 months, according to HSBC Securities. Slower economic growth in the U.S. helped pull exports to that country down 3% -- the second straight monthly decline and biggest drop in 18 months. 

 Japanese companies that have benefited most from the strong U.S. economy are already sending out warning signals. Nissan Motor Co., for example, got a big boost from U.S. sales in the six months ended in September. But Carlos Ghosn, the company's president, cites the U.S. market as one of biggest risks to the company's continued strong performance. Electronics giant Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. recently announced plans to close 30 of its 247 world-wide plants in the face of weak profits. 

 Concerns about slower growth in the U.S. are already undermining the Japanese economy in other ways, as foreign investors pull money out of Japanese stocks to cover losses in their U.S. portfolios. The stock-market declines, in turn, threaten a key source of earnings for Japanese banks, which badly need proceeds from stock sales to finance their writeoffs of bad loans. 

 There are, of course, both regional and global optimists. "Our view is that the world economy is slowing mainly because the U.S. is slowing, but that it still looks quite robust and quite positive as far ahead as the world can see," says C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Institute for International Economics, a Washington-based think tank. 

 But the optimistic view generally relies on a sharp decline in oil prices in the months ahead, as well as central-bank interest-rate cuts and government stimuli in both Europe and the U.S. Those may well occur, as signaled Tuesday by the Federal Reserve. But the transition from high to, at best, moderate growth is "usually uneven and bumpy," says Mr. Roach of Morgan Stanley. The risk the world's economy faces "right now would fall slightly short of a full-blown recession," he says. "Nevertheless, it's a close call." 

 --- 

 Bill Spindle contributed to this article. 

Document awsj000020010803dwcm00fds




 SMARTMONEY.COM: Pain On Main Street 

 By Matthew Goldstein 
878 words
22 December 2000
00:04
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- For Geoffrey Gallup, capitulation day came on Sept. 21 when chip-manufacturer Intel (INTC) issued its stunning profitwarning. An executive with a small Midwestern air-freight company, Gallup says he began quickly liquidating his tech-heavy stock portfolio. Except for a few quick buy-and-sell trades, he's taken a seat on the sidelines since late September. 

 Ken Torbet threw in the towel even earlier on his big tech stocks. Hit hard by the Nasdaq Composite's initial April tumble, Torbet says he cashed in his chips and used the proceeds to pay for renovations on his small Northern California hotel. Now Torbet, who used to trade options online, says he doesn't plan to start buying stocks again until sometime next summer. 

 These are just two ordinary investors, but they offer a similar tale of market misery that millions of individual investors can relate to. Yet if you go back to early March, when the Nasdaq Composite was defying the laws of gravity, it would have been hard to imagine either of these men bailing out and wondering when it would be safe to get back in. In fact, both sounded a lot like those Wall Street gurus who were proclaiming "tech is king" and shoveling dirt on all those so-called Old Economy stocks. But a bear market has a way of tempering that kind of over-the-top thinking. 

 "I was very concerned about valuations early on and I moved money out of everything that wasn't a real company and into big tech companies, but I didn't expect Intel to warn," says Gallup, treasurer and secretary of Omaha, Neb.-based Suburban Air Freight. "Intel was the shot across the bow." Similarly, Torbet says, "I always felt that the P/E is what counts...but I kind of underestimated how quickly stocks would come down." 

 Over the long haul, both men say they still believe in companies like Cisco Systems (CSCO), Intel and Oracle (ORCL) because those companies generate real profits and are laying the pipes for the Internet-driven economy. But each man's confidence has been rattled by this bear market's intensity. Now both Gallup and Torbet fear the country may be slipping into a recession, and they say that does little to make them want to start buying stocks again - even at these comparatively cheap prices. 

 While it's by no means certain the economy is heading into a recession, it's hard to see how the market can rebound strongly early next year if most other individual investors feel the way Torbet and Gallup do. Indeed, with trading activity down sharply at most online brokerages, there's a growing fear on Wall Street that the retail investors who helped propel the Nasdaq towards the heavens will be slow in coming back to the stock market, even if the recession jitters prove unfounded. And the reason for that is simple: There's been some real pain on Main Street this year, and it's not just paper wealth that's gone up in smoke. 

 "I got pummeled in the spring," says Torbet, the owner of The Gingerbread Mansion Inn in Ferndale, Calif. He says the Nasdaq bear wiped out most of his trading gains for the past two years. James Taylor, a self-employed management consultant from southwest Texas, estimates the value of his portfolio, which includes big tech stocks like Cisco, Applied Materials (AMAT) and LSI Logic (LSI), is down at least 18% this year. Taylor's losses might have been greater, he says, if hadn't begun selling some stock six weeks ago. Now, with 57% of his portfolio sitting in cash, Taylor's even considering locking away some of his money in a high-yielding certificate of deposit. 

 Christin Wolff, a California resident, says her portfolio of mostly technology stocks is down more than 60% this year. She fears it will take years now for some of the tech dogs she's holding - MicroStrategy (MSTR) and Conexant Systems (CNXT) - to recover. Wolff, who said in March it would take some international calamity like a major war to shake her confidence in technology stocks, now wishes she'd sold some of her holdings back then. "Had I listened to my instincts, common sense and my own advice...instead of the so-called expert analysts, I would have fared better," she says. 

 Gallup thinks the biggest impediment he sees to another bull run is the shattering of the old-reliable strategy of buying on the dips. He says too many investors have been burnt by that strategy this year. Even if there is no recession looming on the horizon, Gallup says that right now he can't see an obvious catalyst for turning the market around. 

 The message from Main Street then is that it's going to take time for the market to regain its footing, and there may be a lot of false starts along the way. And even then, the market at best will move ahead at a brisk walk, not a gallop. 

 For more information and analysis of companies and mutual funds, visit SmartMoney.com at http://www.smartmoney.com/

Document dj00000020010805dwcm04qx1




 ANALYSIS - U.S. economists on recession watch. 

 By Marjorie Olster 
987 words
21 December 2000
20:35
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec. 21 (Reuters) - The tricky thing about detecting recessions is if economists could spot them in advance, they could probably be avoided. 

 The United States went on recession watch on Tuesday after the Federal Reserve warned that the main threat to the decade-old U.S. expansion had now shifted from inflation to excessive economic weakness. 

 Though many have been surprised by the speed and severity of the weakening recently, economists say the evidence so far points to a dramatic slowdown, but not to a recession. 

 The problem is that even the keenest economic minds often find it hard to see an impending downturn in time to spur action that could reverse the momentum. 

 "It's awfully hard to predict a recession in real time," said Anirvan Banerji, director of research at the Economic Cycle Research Institute in New York. 

 Banerji defines recession as a pronounced, pervasive and persistent decline in output, income, employment and sales but many economists use the shorthand of two consecutive quarters of contraction in gross domestic product (GDP). 

 And there are diverse opinions among economists as to what the most reliable harbingers of recession are. 

 "What are the classic warning signs of recession? I'm not sure there are any," said Dana Johnson, chief economist at Banc One Capital Markets. "It's hard to look at any set of indicators and be confident it is going to give you a read." 

 The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC), the arm of the Fed which sets U.S interest rate policy, met on Tuesday and spelled out its worries in a statement issued afterward. 

 A drag on demand and corporate profits from rising energy costs, eroding consumer confidence, reports of substantial shortfalls in sales and earnings and financial market stresses may suggest further slowing, the FOMC said. 

 SLOWDOWN COULD SNOWBALL 

 Given that explicit warning, economists are wary that slowdown could quickly snowball into a more serious problem. And what the Fed does or doesn't do could prove decisive. 

 "The future is not determined yet," Banerji said. "If the Fed sits tight and does nothing, we are probably going to have a recession." 

 The Fed on Tuesday left the key 6.5 percent federal funds rate on overnight bank lending unchanged, but it signaled it may soon embark on rate cuts to shore up the economy. 

 Importantly, the FOMC said it saw diminishing inflation pressures. If inflation pressures were building, the Fed might delay stimulative rate cuts and raise the risks of recession. But with inflation at bay, they have the room to act quickly. 

 Wall Street bond dealers expect a quarter percentage point cut in the funds rate at the next FOMC meeting on Jan. 30-31, and some have even raised the possibility of a rare inter-meeting move before then. 

 Economists are on alert for signs of a broad decline in economic activity - especially in sectors where spending is postponable like housing - as well as cutbacks in hiring, falling incomes, reduced business investment in capital goods, slowing consumer spending and buildup of business inventories. 

 Other warning signs are diving stock prices or consumer confidence, a credit crunch or a corporate profit squeeze. 

 The economic impact of a sharp rise in oil and natural gas prices recently is being closely monitored, especially because oil price "shocks" were considered a major factor in the last three U.S. recessions. The last recession was 10 years ago. 

 A sharp drop in consumer confidence often presages macroeconomic doom because it can lead to a tightening up of consumer spending which accounts for about two-thirds of GDP. 

 So economists were concerned earlier this month when the University of Michigan reported its consumer sentiment index skidded in December to its lowest reading since Oct. 1998 when the U.S. economy was in the throes of a financial contagion from the Asian economic slump and Russia's debt default. 

 But U.S. job and income growth and homebuying, all fundamental elements of economic health, remain fairly robust. 

 Some say it is a two-speed economy, with the manufacturing sector, about 20 percent of the economy, contracting while the service sector, which accounts for 80 percent of U.S. jobs, continuing to expand. 

 FINANCIAL MARKET STRAINS 

 Markets are showing the strains of an aging expansion. 

 The stock market is often considered a leading recession indicator because it impacts consumer confidence. 

 Technology stocks traded on the Nasdaq composite this year have erased almost all of their dizzying 87 percent gain in 1999. A better measure of the economic impact of stocks is the broader Wilshire 5000 index, which is down about 15 percent this year, a loss of more than $2 trillion in wealth. 

 Corporate profit margins are being squeezed by high energy costs and slowing economic activity. Profits at S&P 500 companies grew at rates upwards of 20 percent in the first three quarters, but are only expected to rise 6.0 percent this quarter. And that number could still be revised lower, said Chuck Hill, research director at profit tracking firm First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Hill said he sees a "good chance of a profit recession" as early as the second quarter of 2001. 

 In the credit markets, risk spreads or gaps between interest rates on higher and lower quality bonds are another oft-cited recession indicator. 

 The gap between speculative-grade or junk bonds to U.S. Treasuries has doubled so far this year, credit rating agency Standard & Poor's said this week. Default rates on corporate debt are rising. 

 Still there are no signs of a credit crunch like the one in late 1998 which prompted three quick Fed rate cuts. But Fed officials worry that banks, which have already tightened up on lending, will go too far and choke off an important source of funding for the credit markets. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcl09dtq




 POLL-European funds return home in Dec as U.S. sputters. 

 By Jeffrey Hodgson 
654 words
21 December 2000
12:01
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, Dec 21 (Reuters) - A resurgent euro and a slowing U.S. economy restored the faith of continental European fund managers in local assets in December, spurring them to increase their holdings of domestic stocks and bonds. 

 The buying came at the expense of North American and Japanese markets, with money managers fearing the prospect of weaker economic growth in both regions. 

 A Reuters poll of 11 euro zone fund managers and strategists saw the average allocation to euro zone equities increase to 21 percent from 20.1 percent in November and 20.4 percent in October. 

 Euro zone fixed-income markets also drew more flows, with managers increasing exposure to 39 percent from 34.5 percent in November and 38 percent in October. 

 At the same time, fund managers cut U.S. and Canadian equities to 50.9 percent of portfolios, the lowest level since August, from 52.1 percent in November. The trend was similar for North American bonds. 

 Fund managers said they made the changes on growing evidence of slowing U.S. economic growth and fears this will hurt the performance of equity markets and the dollar. 

 "We see European growth converging with American growth because we see American growth slowing towards a three percent real rate in 2001 and Europe not decelerating as much," said James Cunningham, head of portfolio management with Bank Sarasin in Basle. 

 "What we expect it to mean is that the earnings deceleration will be more severe in the U.S. than in Europe," he added. 

 CASH HOLDINGS RAISED 

 Global stocks markets have been roiled in recent sessions by deepening gloom about the prospects for U.S. economic growth and corporate profits. This has been highlighted by repeated profit downgrades and a warning from the Federal Reserve on Tuesday that it now views a slowdown as the biggest threat to the U.S. economy, rather than inflation. 

 Some managers predicted the situation could get even worse for equity markets and predicted Europe may be the best place to weather the storm. 

 "There is a very negative momentum in terms of macroeconomic news coming from the U.S., and microeconomic news as well. There is a downgrading dynamic both for the U.S. economy and the stock market. I'm not seeing the bottom," said Jean-Francois Ruggieri, a Paris-based portfolio manager with Expertise Asset Management, a unit of Old Mutual. 

 "I cannot see any catalyst for the market to really enter a recovery phase for the moment," he added. 

 Ruggieri hiked the level of cash in his equity portfolio, mirroring the actions of most survey participants. Cash holdings for European equity investors rose to 2.2 percent, its highest level since June, from 1.1 percent in November. 

 JAPAN HOLDINGS CUT 

 The pessimism about the outlook for U.S. equities extended to Japan, with fund managers cutting their holdings of Japanese stocks to the lowest levels since early 1999. 

 The average allocations to Japanese equities fell to 10 percent in December from 11.2 percent in November. The allocation rose as high as 13.7 percent in April. 

 "In the course of this year, we have become more and more pessimistic about the prospects of the Japanese recovery story. In the beginning of this year a lot of investors were still pretty positive," said Kommer van Trigt, senior portfolio manager with Robeco Group in Rotterdam. 

 "The last few weeks we have seen that both the Bank of Japan as well as the Economic Planning Agency have scaled down their economic estimates for the first time since 1998. That is pretty substantial," he added. 

 Fund managers said their concern was compounded by ongoing political problems and weak standing of Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori. 

 The survey, conducted between December 14 and 19, included responses from 11 continental European-based fund managers and strategists. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcl09cb8




US giant's alert puts BT on three-year low; MARKET REPORT  

MICHAEL CLARK  
616 words
21 December 2000
The Evening Standard
NS
D
49
English
(c) 2000 Associated Newspapers. All rights reserved  

SHARES of British Telecom slumped 32p to a three-year low of 590p today on the back of yesterday's profits warning from US rival American Telephone and Telegraph.  

The giant ATandT started the rot by lowering its growth forecast and slashing its quarterly payout to shareholders by more than 80%. The high levels of debt that many telecom companies are struggling under has alarmed the banks.  

At the last count, BT's overdraft was heading towards Pounds 30 billion. It is  

feared that if one company goes under, it could create a domino effect. There were also losses for Cable and Wireless, adrift 24p to 898p, Colt Telecom 16p to 1459p and Kingston Communications 5p to 2231/2p.  

The mighty Vodafone shed 10p to 235p after it said it was buying Telia's 14% stake in Eircom's mobile arm Eir-cell for Pounds 2.7 billion.  

Vodafone will issue an extra 147 million shares to finance the deal. US telecom company Quest later said it was trading above expectations but this brought only temporary relief, with telecom shares soon again on the slide.  

Attempts at a rally by the rest of the equity market proved short-lived as the London market continued to shadow the futures market, which at one stage indicated an opening rally by the Dow. The FTSE 100 index fell 61.6 to 6115.1 after another abysmal performance overnight by Wall Street and the hi-tech Nasdaq market. This week's warning from the Federal Reserve about the US economy sliding into recession continues to ring in punters' ears. Brokers point out that major companies have been issuing profit warnings on a daily basis during the past three months and the Fed should have acted sooner.  

Reuters fell 65p to 1127p. US securities house Goldman Sachs is not impressed with the group's decision to rein in its investment in Instinet.com and has duly moved it from its recommended list to "market outperform". It is also looking to downgrade its 1600p target price to between 1000p and 1200p.  

Lasmo responded to news of the agreed counterbid from Eni with a leap of 221/4p to 199 p. More than 300 million Lasmo shares changed hands as Eni's brokers raided the market looking to snap up 25% of the company. It now remains to be seen whether existing bidder Amerada Hess will be prepared to top Eni's offer.  

Rival Enterprise Oil, which has failed several times to merge with Lasmo, firmed 181/2p to 567p. It is still seen as vulnerable to takeover following this year's dramatic rise in the price of oil on world markets.  

Aggregate Industries reduced an early fall to just p at 783/4p. The shares charged higher in a falling market yesterday on revived talk of a bid.  

Attempts to merge with rival Tarmac several years ago ended in failure. The speculators were also concentrating their efforts on another takeover favourite, Weir Group, up 10p at 230p.  

Brokers say there has been heavy turnover in the shares and a further two million changed hands during the first hour of trading today.  

Cyberes made its debut on AIM following a placing of shares at 56p. The shares were later traded as 55p. Environmental Polymers also made its debut on AIM after moving up from Ofex. The shares opened at 161/2p before touching 171/4p.  

lPrices and indices in this section are supplied from various sources and calculated at different times and may not always match those listed in the tables. Ofex prices relate to the previous close.  

944848998

Document NS00000020061020dwcl002q8




US giant's alert puts BT on three-year low; MARKET REPORT  

MICHAEL CLARK  
618 words
21 December 2000
The Evening Standard
NS
D
49
English
(c) 2000 Associated Newspapers. All rights reserved  

SHARES of British Telecom slumped 32p to a three-year low of 590p today on the back of yesterday's profits warning from US rival American Telephone & Telegraph.  

The giant AT&T started the rot by lowering its growth forecast and slashing its quarterly payout to shareholders by more than 80%. The high levels of debt that many telecom companies are struggling under has alarmed the banks.  

At the last count, BT's overdraft was heading towards Pounds 30 billion. It is  

feared that if one company goes under, it could create a domino effect. There were also losses for Cable & Wireless, adrift 24p to 898p, Colt Telecom 16p to 1459p and Kingston Communications 5p to 2231/2p.  

The mighty Vodafone shed 10p to 235p after it said it was buying Telia's 14% stake in Eircom's mobile arm Eir-cell for Pounds 2.7 billion.  

Vodafone will issue an extra 147 million shares to finance the deal. US telecom company Quest later said it was trading above expectations but this brought only temporary relief, with telecom shares soon again on the slide.  

Attempts at a rally by the rest of the equity market proved short-lived as the London market continued to shadow the futures market, which at one stage indicated an opening rally by the Dow. The FTSE 100 index fell 61.6 to 6115.1 after another abysmal performance overnight by Wall Street and the hi-tech Nasdaq market. This week's warning from the Federal Reserve about the US economy sliding into recession continues to ring in punters' ears. Brokers point out that major companies have been issuing profit warnings on a daily basis during the past three months and the Fed should have acted sooner.  

Reuters fell 65p to 1127p. US securities house Goldman Sachs is not impressed with the group's decision to rein in its investment in Instinet.com and has duly moved it from its recommended list to "market outperform". It is also looking to downgrade its 1600p target price to between 1000p and 1200p.  

Lasmo responded to news of the agreed counterbid from Eni with a leap of 221/4p to 199 p. More than 300 million Lasmo shares changed hands as Eni's brokers raided the market looking to snap up 25% of the company. It now remains to be seen whether existing bidder Amerada Hess will be prepared to top Eni's offer.  

Rival Enterprise Oil, which has failed several times to merge with Lasmo, firmed 181/2p to 567p. It is still seen as vulnerable to takeover following this year's dramatic rise in the price of oil on world markets.  

Aggregate Industries reduced an early fall to just p at 783/4p. The shares charged higher in a falling market yesterday on revived talk of a bid.  

Attempts to merge with rival Tarmac several years ago ended in failure. The speculators were also concentrating their efforts on another takeover favourite, Weir Group, up 10p at 230p.  

Brokers say there has been heavy turnover in the shares and a further two million changed hands during the first hour of trading today.  

Cyberes made its debut on AIM following a placing of shares at 56p. The shares were later traded as 55p. Environmental Polymers also made its debut on AIM after moving up from Ofex. The shares opened at 161/2p before touching 171/4p.  

lPrices and indices in this section are supplied from various sources and calculated at different times and may not always match those listed in the tables. Ofex prices relate to the previous close.  

944848998

Document NS00000020060917dwcl002mc




 Sinking in Sync: The Global Slowdown Surprises Economists And Many Companies --- As Engines Around the World Sputter, U.S. Firms Feel Downside of Diversifying --- `Landscape Is Changing Fast'   

 By Wall Street Journal staff reporters Steve Liesman, Christopher Rhoads and Robert Frank   
2,897 words
21 December 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
A1
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

 When the Federal Reserve decided to keep its high-interest-rate policy in place in early October, it relied partly on its staff forecast that the U.S. would get help from overseas to offset its slowing growth. The Fed believed that "brisk growth abroad would boost the expansion of U.S. exports for some period ahead."   

 Just a month earlier, the International Monetary Fund gave the global economy a relatively clean bill of health: "Growth is projected to increase in all major regions of the world, led by the continued strength of the U.S. economy, the robust upswing in Europe, the consolidation of the recovery in Asia and the rebound from last year's slowdown in emerging markets."   

 Great minds, it seems, also err alike. With a suddenness that has surprised economists and corporate chieftains, the world's leading economies are all slowing in concert.   

 The U.S., Europe and Japan each saw growth rates decline in the third quarter. U.S. and foreign stock markets sold off sharply yesterday, amid continuing disappointment about corporate earnings and the Federal Reserve's decision on Tuesday not to lower interest rates. The Nasdaq Composite Index tumbled 178.93 points, or 7.1%, yesterday to 2332.78, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average was off 265.44, or 2.5%, at 10318.93. Most economists are cutting 2001 forecasts for overall global growth almost as fast as their computers can process the data.   

 And what was at first a concern about mature markets has now spilled over to the developing world. Latin America, where growth has been strong, could be beset by rapidly declining exports to the U.S. There are worries about creditworthiness in Argentina and Turkey that smack of a scaled-down version of the Asian financial crisis of 1998. Currency markets in Asia have signaled their jitters by driving down foreign-exchange values to levels unseen since the crisis.   

 "This is a global industrial slowdown," says Anervan Banerji, director of research at the Economic Cycle Research Institute in New York.   

 Few economists believe that the downturn will be severe or that the world economy is entering recession. Indeed, the latest projections by the World Bank say world growth will slow to a respectable 3.4% in 2001 from this year's estimated 4.1%. And some economists believe a healthy dose of interest-rate cuts and lower oil prices can quickly get world growth back on track. While the Fed decided not to cut rates on Tuesday, it did signal possible rate cuts in the months ahead by indicating that the main threat to the U.S. economy was slower growth, not overheating.   

 But for many U.S. and foreign companies, the pressing problem may not be the depth of the global downturn but its width: a reflection of the increasing ties across global markets and the greater likelihood that what affects one will affect all. As in the 1998 crisis, the causes of this slowdown -- rising interest rates, higher oil prices and slumping financial markets -- have all been global rather than local phenomena.   

 At the center of this global macroeconomic village stands the U.S., whose GDP accounts for almost 30% of world output, up from 26% in 1992. U.S. companies now make up almost half of all world corporate profits, which is a 33% increase from a decade ago, according to Jeff Applegate, chief investment strategist at Lehman Bros.   

 At the same time, the 1990s' mantra of globalization has made U.S. corporations more dependent than ever on overseas revenue. The average company in the Dow Jones industrials now derives about 40% of its revenue from outside the U.S., up from 35% in 1988, according to Ed Keon, director of quantitative research at Prudential Securities New York.   

 In its recent pre-earnings warning of shortfalls in revenue and profits, Microsoft Corp. named slowing world growth as a prime culprit -- joining a torrent of earnings warnings from top-tier companies that blamed the global slowdown. "We did not anticipate the rate of deceleration in the world economy that we're now seeing," Microsoft Chief Financial Officer John Connors said. About 31% of Microsoft's $5.8 billion in revenue comes from Europe, Asia, the Middle East and Africa.   

 Because of this "greater global interdependency," as Mr. Keon terms it, even modest changes in growth can have a big impact if the changes are widespread. That's why Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers used several opportunities when addressing leaders of the industrialized world to urge them to get their houses in order before a U.S. slowdown arose. "The world economy cannot fly on a single engine," Mr. Summers said in 1999, when asked about the greatest risk facing global economic growth.   

 The seeds of the current downturn were sown by the vigorous expansion of 1999 and the first half of 2000, which sparked concern that supercharged growth could ignite inflationary pressures. The U.S. Federal Reserve was the first to act. In six increases over a year, it raised interest rates by 1.75 percentage points.   

 When the Fed talks, central banks around the world listen, especially those with currencies linked to the dollar. Other banks began raising their own rates. Even the Bank of Japan, where growth was the most fragile of all, added 0.25 percentage point to its bank rate. The European Central Bank, concerned about its newborn euro and potential inflation, added 2.25 percentage point to its bellwether interest rate during the course of six increases. Mr. Banerji argues that the Federal Reserve's interest-rate increases put pressure on the ECB to raise rates, since higher U.S. interest rates further strengthened the dollar.   

 What blindsided the world's top bankers apparently was the persistence of high oil prices, which were buttressed by strong world growth. Consumer demand took a hit from prices at the pump, as well as a reduced wealth effect from swooning stock markets. The prospect of slower growth, in turn, generated fears about corporate credit quality, and bond markets began demanding higher interest rates on corporate debt. Companies found difficulty securing new capital as bankers raised credit standards. The free fall in many world stock markets, led by the Nasdaq Stock Market, made new equity issues unattractive. The technology bubble burst, creating what one economist called a global "tech wreck."   

 Jupiter Telecommunications, which is Japan's largest cable-television provider and is partly owned by AT&T Corp., Liberty Media Group and Microsoft, recently canceled an initial public offering that had been expected to raise about $500 million for expansion. Jupiter executives attributed the cancellation to the "volatility in the market and overall erosion" of share values. The executives noted that a Japanese satellite-TV operator, immediately after its IPO in October, was trading at 50% of its offering price.   

 By autumn, the impact of the interest-rate increases, which can take a year or more to begin slowing the economy, began to register. The annualized U.S. third-quarter growth of 2.36% was a marked drop from the 5.65% recorded in the second quarter, and the fourth quarter is expected to be equally sluggish. Growth in Europe has declined to 2.8% in the third quarter from 3.2% in the second. Japan's Economic Planning Agency reported recently that growth in the world's second-largest economy slowed to an annual rate of just 1% in the third quarter. Worse, it revised the strong second-quarter growth figure of 4.2% to 1% as well, suggesting that the nation could be entering its fourth major economic slowdown in a decade. Growth in the rest of Asia is also slowing.   

 Did the world's central banks overdo it? Stephen Roach, international economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, argues that the Fed's recent talk of easing "is an implicit admission that if they had to do it all over again, they might not have gone as far."   

 It was late September when Eastman Kodak Co. executives noticed mounting but inexplicable signs of trouble in their business. To the Rochester, N.Y., maker of cameras and film, the world's shutterbugs abruptly seemed to stop clicking in unison. "The thing that's amazing is how fast, all of a sudden, it happened," Kodak's chief financial officer, Robert Brust, told analysts when the company rushed out its September earnings warning.   

 August had been a stellar month for the company, and it seemed on its way to a sixth straight quarter of growth. Kodak knew the U.S. eventually would slow. It didn't expect trouble abroad, however. "What the company had been banking on was a growing portfolio of emerging markets growing at a double-digit clip to make up for the some of the weakness in mature markets," says Ben Reitzes, imaging-technology analyst at UBS Warburg in New York.   

 By October, when Kodak released a flat earnings report and guided analysts' earnings forecasts lower for the fourth quarter, Kodak had figured out what went wrong. Pricing pressure and slower growth in most of its major markets were behind the downturn. Retailers began cutting inventory and the manufacturing process began to back up.   

 The most serious headwinds of all seemed to be coming from Europe, where rising oil prices, a sinking currency and rising interest rates were taking the luster off what for a time was a much-awaited acceleration in European growth. In July, Wim Duisenberg, president of the European Central Bank, scoffed at any concerns that the expected U.S. slowdown could drag Europe down with it, calling it "a weak wind" that the European economy could easily withstand. Looking back at the data now, economists believe European growth probably had peaked two months before his remarks. Growth in the 11 countries that make up the euro zone slowed to an annualized 2.8% in the third quarter from a peak in this cycle of 3.9% in the fourth quarter of 1999.   

 The ECB expects growth of between 3.2% and 3.6% in the region for 2000. In a new staff forecast -- the first to be made public under a new policy -- issued yesterday, the bank said it expects growth in Europe to "decline slightly" next year "but to remain strong."   

 "The landscape is changing very fast, and it's clear that euroland is not immune," says Ellen van der Gulik, European economist in the London office of J.P. Morgan. Ms. van der Gulik recently cut her forecast for euro-zone growth by half a percentage point or more for each of the next three quarters as a result of weakening U.S. data. She is particularly worried about the effect on European exports from slowing growth outside the Continent, which she says will "hit harder than the 1994 Mexican crisis and the 1998 emerging-market crisis."   

 Around the time when Kodak was noticing its slowdown, auto executives in Europe were becoming concerned, too. Auto-parts giant Valeo SA, on the strength of optimistic auto-sales forecasts, in the summer ratcheted up its operating-margin targets for 2000. But within two months, the Paris-based company was forced to issue a profit warning, blaming higher costs for raw materials and slowing demand in the U.S. "Our traditional customers are decreasing their investment," Andre Navarri, Valeo's CEO, complained in a conference call to analysts in October.   

 Glaverbel SA, a Brussels-based glassmaker that supplies windows to the auto and housing industry, had such strong demand in the first half of the year that it resorted to buying products from competitors. But after business began slowing in September, especially in Germany, Chairman Luc Willame says he began cutting jobs, targeting as many as 1,000 positions from Glaverbel's work force of 12,000. The company is holding off on investment plans, he adds.   

 European auto analysts, who had been expecting car sales to rise this year, now expect a decline, led by an estimated 9% drop in Germany compared with last year, according to Schroder Salomon Smith Barney.   

 While the slowdown in Europe was picking up pace in the summer, Asia's one-time tiger economies were beginning to show signs of stress. Until last spring, the region appeared to be recovering from the financial crisis of 1998. Asia's economies were growing between 5% and 10%, currencies had stabilized, interest rates remained low and governments appeared intent on weeding out bad loans and bad companies.   

 Much of the rebound, however, was built on exports to the U.S., especially electronics. As Americans snapped up personal computers, laptops and cell phones, Asian exporters rushed to fill demand -- from Taiwanese semiconductor chips to Malaysian memory boards to PCs assembled in the Philippines. Now, that demand, and the main source of Asia's hard currency, is slowing. Taiwan's Mosel Vitelic, which makes memory chips, recently slashed its profit estimates for this year 55% because of weak PC demand. Sales of disk drives from Singapore fell 15.7% in October.   

 Already hobbled by a decline in consumer spending and rising oil prices, Southeast Asia saw its troubles deepened by political problems, especially in Thailand, the Philippines and Indonesia. General Motors Corp., which opened a $500 million assembly plant in Thailand this year, just scaled back its estimates of Thai auto sales for 2000 by 10% because of slowing demand. Sydney-based soft-drink bottler Coca-Cola Amatil reported a 2% drop in volume in the Philippines for first nine months of 2000 due to sagging consumer confidence. Weaker currencies have pinched companies such as Indonesia's PT Indofood Sukses Makmur, the noodle-making giant that recently reported a sharp drop in profits in the first nine months because of higher raw-material costs and foreign debt.   

 The most worrisome signals, however, have just recently come out of Japan with its new, lower growth estimates. Among the problems are slowing exports to the U.S. While exports rose 2.8% in October, that was the smallest increase in 15 months, according to HSBC Securities. Slower economic growth in the U.S. helped pull exports to this country down 3% -- the second straight monthly decline and biggest drop in 18 months. Slower growth in Europe pulled Japanese exports to that part of the world down 6% -- the biggest drop in more than a year. Exports to the rest of Asia remain a bright spot -- up 10% in October -- but HSBC expects that slower growth in America and Europe will eventually undermine Japan's Asian exports as well. The reason: Much of what Japan sends to Asia is used to make products destined eventually for the U.S. and Europe.   

 Japanese companies that have benefited most from the strong U.S. economy are already sending out warning signals. Nissan Motor Co., for example, got a big boost from U.S. sales in the six months ended in September. But Carlos Ghosn, the company's president, cites the U.S. market as one of biggest risks to the company's continued strong performance. "The prospect that the whole U.S. market will soften is very likely," he says.   

 Electronics giant Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. recently announced plans to close 30 of its 247 world-wide plants in the face of weak profits.   

 Concerns about slower growth in the U.S. are already undermining the Japanese economy in other ways, as foreign investors pull money out of Japanese stocks to cover losses in their U.S. portfolios. The stock-market declines, in turn, threaten a key source of earnings for Japanese banks, which badly need proceeds from stock sales to finance their writeoffs of bad loans.   

 But banks' unrealized gains on their stockholdings are falling. Chuo Mitsui Trust & Banking Co. had an unrealized loss of 53 billion yen ($471.5 million) on its securities portfolio as of the end of September.   

 There are, of course, both regional and global optimists. "Our view is that the world economy is slowing mainly because the U.S. is slowing, but that it still looks quite robust and quite positive as far ahead as the world can see," says C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Institute for International Economics, a Washington-based think tank.   

 But the optimistic view generally relies on a sharp decline in oil prices in the months ahead, as well as central-bank interest-rate cuts and government stimuli in both Europe and the U.S. Those may well occur, as signaled Tuesday by the Federal Reserve. But the transition from high to, at best, moderate growth is "usually uneven and bumpy," says Mr. Roach of Morgan Stanley. Countries become "vulnerable to recession [because] they are growing at a pace that is not too far away from their stall speed." Mr. Roach has been busy cutting his global growth forecasts over the past two months. The risk the world's economy faces "right now would fall slightly short of a full-blown recession," he says. "Nevertheless, it's a close call."   

 ---   

 Bill Spindle in Tokyo contributed to this article.   

Document j000000020010807dwcl00vv0




 Australian stock market battered 

291 words
21 December 2000
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 SYDNEY, Dec 21 (AFP) - The Australian stock market slumped 1.8 percent Thursday after local investors shared Wall Street's concerns over a slowing US economy, brokers said. 

 The All Ordinaries index closed 57.2 points lower at 3,133.7 while the SP/ASX 200 lost 59.4 points to 3,185.8. 

 "There are concerns of a hard landing rather than a soft landing in the US," Sydney-based CIBC World Markets head of equities David Keogh said. 

 "Investors see the banks as a safe-haven and that is why you are seeing the gains there," Keogh said. 

 Dealers said profit warnings from some local companies were also affecting sentiment. 

 "The profit warnings from the US have now been followed in Australia with Lend Lease, Orica and smaller companies announcing profit downgrades. This has obviously made traders cautious and brought down the market considerably," Nomura Australia equities strategist Eric Betts said. 

 Property company Lend Lease was down 2.52 dollars or 13.8 percent at 15.78 after issuing a profit warning yesterday. 

 The All Industrials index fell 110.0 points to 5,423.8 and the All Resources dropped 7.9 points to 1,357.4. 

 National turnover was 512.2 million shares, valued at 1.53 billion Australian dollars (843 million US). 

 The National Australia Bank gained three cents to 29.40 dollars but the Commonwealth Bank shed 20 cents to 30.57. 

 News Corp, heavily exposed in the US, lost 1.12 dollars, or seven percent, to 14.41 dollars, and Telstra sagged 19 cents to 6.27. 

 In the resources sector, BHP fell 17.9 cents to 18.70 dollars, and Rio Tinto shed 25 cents to 28.95. 

 pwa/bro 

Document afpr000020010803dwcl05dg5


Newscast: Overseas markets reacting negatively to Wall Street's downturn   

312 words
21 December 2000
CBS News: The Early Show
CBST
English
(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

BRYANT GUMBEL, co-host:   

The US slide is being felt overseas in Asia and in Europe. Our MarketWatch correspondent Jesse Schulman has the latest from London.   

Jesse, good morning. Jesse?   

JESSE SCHULMAN reporting:   

Asian markets fell; Europe opened with a dive after Wednesday's fall on the NASDAQ and a profit warning from  AT&T. Markets here have now pulled up to regained some of their balance, but traders are still very nervous and very uncertain.   

In Tokyo, stock prices fell for the sixth-straight day to their lowest close in just under two years. Closing price on the Nikkei: 13,423, a drop of about 3 1/2 percent.   

(Graphic on screen)   

CBS MarketWatch   

Nikkei   

Close:   

13,423.21   

Down:   

491.22   

down 3.53% cbs.marketwatch.com   

SCHULMAN: In Europe, the picture is better. Short falls to start, then a bounce on a bit of bargain hunting. Prices as of a few minutes ago: London's FTSE 100 is down .26 percent to 6,160; in Paris, the CAC-40 is up .29 percent to 5,782; and the DAX in Frankfurt is up .07 percent to 6,253.   

(Graphic on screen)   

London FTSE IS -0.26% to 6,160   

Paris The CAC +0.29% to 5,782   

Frankfurt The DAX +0.07 to 6,253   

SCHULMAN: For the open in the US, signs are now looking good. NASDAQ futures are up. Futures also looking good for the S&P. The outlook: there's plenty of money sitting on the sidelines waiting to buy. But the big money isn't looking for reasonable prices, it's looking for cheap. And it's only a brave few who are ready to bet the prices are cheap just yet. Bryant.   

GUMBEL: All right. Jesse Schulman, thanks very much.   

Document CBST000020070818dwcl006y7




 BUSINESS 
 Net firm tumbles on  profit warning 

290 words
21 December 2000
The Toronto Star
TOR
1
AB01
English
 Copyright (c) 2000 The Toronto Star 

 LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - Shares of Internet networking products maker Foundry Networks Inc. lost more than half their value yesterday after the company issued an earnings warning and several brokerages downgraded the stock. 

 Foundry's warning, after the market closed on Tuesday, indicated that a slowdown in spending on personal computers and their components had spread to the networking business. 

 That hit shares of industry behemoth Cisco Systems Inc., whose stock closed down almost 13 per cent to $36.50 (U.S.), its lowest levels since November, 1999. 

 Foundry closed down $17.63 at $13 yesterday on the Nasdaq Stock Market. 

 During the session, shares of San Jose, Calif.-based Foundry traded at $12.06, their lowest level this year. 

 The shares traded as high as $212 in March. 

 Foundry said it expects fourth-quarter earnings of 11 to 14 cents a share, well below a consensus estimate of 24 cents among analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 "Foundry's pre-announcement represents the first acknowledgement that capital spending issues are also impacting suppliers of next-generation switching solutions," Merrill Lynch analyst Michael Ching wrote in a report. 

 Networking rival Extreme Networks Inc. also lost ground in early trade after SG Cowen cut its rating on the stock to "neutral" from "buy," citing a slowing economy and the level of Extreme Networks' stock price. Extreme Networks was down more 36 per cent, off $17.44 at $31.12. 

 Merrill also cut its ratings on PC makers International Business Machines Corp. and Hewlett Packard Co. 

 Also downgrading Foundry were ABN Amro, SG Cowen, Deutsche Bank and Robertson Stephens. Brokerages revised downward their earnings estimates for the company, in line with Foundry's earnings warning. 

Document tor0000020010813dwcl01g94




 US giant's alert puts. 

579 words
21 December 2000
Daily Mail
DAIM
English
(c) 2000

 BT on three-year low Shares of British Telecom slumped 32p to a three-year low of 590p today on the back of yesterday's profits warning from US rival American Telephone & Telegraph. 

 The giant AT&T started the rot by lowering its growth forecast and slashing its quarterly payout to shareholders by more than 80%. The high levels of debt that many telecom companies are struggling under has alarmed the banks. At the last count, BT's overdraft was heading towards #30 billion. It is feared that if one company goes under, it could create a domino effect. There were also losses for Cable & Wireless, adrift 24p to 898p, Colt Telecom 16p to 1459p and Kingston Communications 5p to 2231/2p. 

 The mighty Vodafone shed 10p to 235p after it said it was buying Telia's 14% stake in Eircom's mobile arm Eircell for #2.7 billion. Vodafone will issue an extra 147 million shares to finance the deal. US telecom company Quest later said it was trading above expectations but this brought only temporary relief, with telecom shares soon again on the slide. 

 Attempts at a rally by the rest of the equity market proved short-lived as the London market continued to shadow the futures market, which at one stage indicated an opening rally by the Dow. The FTSE 100 index fell 61.6 to 6115.1 after another abysmal performance overnight by Wall Street and the hi-tech Nasdaq market. This week's warning from the Federal Reserve about the US economy sliding into recession continues to ring in punters' ears. Brokers point out that major companies have been issuing profit warnings on a daily basis during the past three months and the Fed should have acted sooner. 

 Reuters fell 65p to 1127p. US securities house Goldman Sachs is not impressed with the group's decision to rein in its investment in Instinet.com and has duly moved it from its recommended list to "market outperform". It is also looking to downgrade its 1600p target price to between 1000p and 1200p. 

 Lasmo responded to news of the agreed counterbid from Eni with a leap of 221/4p to 1991/4p. More than 300 million Lasmo shares changed hands as Eni's brokers raided the market looking to snap up 25% of the company. It now remains to be seen whether existing bidder Amerada Hess will be prepared to top Eni's offer. 

 Rival Enterprise Oil, which has failed several times to merge with Lasmo, firmed 181/2p to 567p. It is still seen as vulnerable to takeover following this year's dram-atic rise in the price of oil on world markets. 

 Aggregate Industries reduced an early fall to just 3/4p at 783/4p. The shares charged higher in a falling market yesterday on revived talk of a bid. Attempts to merge with rival Tarmac several years ago ended in failure. The speculators were also concentrating their efforts on another takeover favourite, Weir Group, up 10p at 230p. 

 Brokers say there has been heavy turnover in the shares and a further two million changed hands during the first hour of trading today. 

 Cyberes made its debut on AIM following a placing of shares at 56p. The shares were later traded as 55p. Environmental Polymers also made its debut on AIM after moving up from Ofex. The shares opened at 161/2p before touching 171/4p. 

Document daim000020010805dwcl003qi




 Financial Post Investing 
 Market begs for relief: Interest rates: 'Every day the Fed waits, the odds of a recession increase' 

 Thomas Hirschmann 
Financial Post, with files from news services
744 words
21 December 2000
National Post
FINP
National
D01 / Front
English
 (c) National Post 2000. All Rights Reserved. 

 Without imminent relief on interest rates, the Nasdaq composite index looks ready to roll over and succumb to the bear's attack. 

 With the U.S. Federal Reserve Board failing to move beyond a change in bias on Tuesday, the market is howling for rates to be cut quickly and deeply to put an end to the mauling. 

 "Every day that the Fed waits to cut interest rates, the odds of a recession increase," said GKST economist Brian Wesbury. 

 The earnings outlook continued to dim yesterday, with some Wall Street pundits moving toward forecasts for a flat year in profit gains next year. 

 George Vasic, Toronto-based portfolio strategist at UBS Bunting Warburg Inc., said it's possible that the Federal Reserve may move to cut rates before its scheduled meeting on Jan. 30. Such a move will depend on December employment data, due early in the new year. 

 During Alan Greenspan's chairmanship of the Fed, there have been two inter-meeting rate changes, in April, 1994, and October, 1998. 

 Regardless of whether the Fed changes rates before its Jan. 30-31 meeting, a rate decline is almost assured. Yesterday, fed funds futures were pricing in a 46% chance of a 50 basis-point ease in January, and 100% chance of a 25 basis-point ease. 

 "We now look for the Fed to begin easing policy next month and expect the Fed to ease by 100 basis points by the end of next summer," said Bruce Steinberg, chief economist at Merrill Lynch & Co., joining other major brokerages looking for a full point ease. 

 Some say it may already be too late. Mr. Wesbury has factored in a 60% chance of a recession in 2001. Others think the economy is still on relatively sure footing. Mr. Steinberg is expecting a "rough landing" that will not results in a recession. 

 Mr. Vasic said "it does not seem that world is ending as far as [gross domestic product] is concerned," adding that "this is more of a profits recession." 

 According to First Call, first-quarter technology profits are expected to grow by only 9% compared with projections of 28% from Oct. 1. The rate at which earnings forecasts are being revised downward is large and still accelerating. 

 Mr. Steinberg now expects Standard & Poor's 500 operating earnings per share to be up only 5% in 2001 -- with downside risk -- compared with his previous forecast of 8%. He was forecasting 10% growth less than two weeks ago. 

 Downgrades sent International Business Machines Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co. to new year lows yesterday. 

Profit warnings have become a daily occurrence. Yesterday, however, it was a dividend warning that sent a chill through the market. Reports, later confirmed, speculated that AT&T Corp.'s board would slash its dividend. The company announced an 83% cut to its quarterly dividend -- to US3.75 cents from US22 cents, the first cut in its 100-year history. At the same time the company warned that fourth-quarter earnings and revenue would be lower than expected. 

 The continued flow of bad news is expected to keep the market underwater into the new year. "Unfortunately, in our belief, there is very little good news between now and the next time the Fed meets," said Ralph Acampora, chief technical analyst at Prudential Securities Inc. He expects more negative pre-announcements, margin calls and tax-loss selling before the market can rally. 

 "[The breakdowns] suggest that these market indices are going into bear phases. Be very careful." 

 While the first half of 2001 could be rough, many strategists expect rate decreases to bolster the stock market in the second half of the year with strength returning in 2002. 

 "Fed easing usually outweighs earnings deceleration in driving stock prices," said Mr. Steinberg. "We look for Fed easing to start boosting growth by the second half of 2001, when we expect GDP to rise at a 3.5% to 4% rate. For 2002, we still think growth can get back up to 4%." 

thirschmann@nationalpost.com

 Color Photo: Beth A. Keiser, The Associated Press / Max Cerrato, a broker at JW Genesis Securities Inc. in New York, takes a breather. Stocks across the board began a steady decline after the opening bell on Wall Street yesterday. 

Document finp000020010806dwcl011t4




 ON24 Audio Investor Alert: Lucent Issues  Profit Warning 

77 words
21 December 2000
17:40
Business Wire
BWR
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Business Wire) 

 --(BUSINESS WIRE)-- 

 The following is the complete, unedited investor conference call of Lucent Technologies. 

 For the complete streaming audio story users should access http://www.on24.com/index.html?id=47283&type=av&ref=bizwire. 

 Ticker: (NYSE:LU) Company: Lucent Technologies 

 To personalize your free audio/video investor alerts visit http://www.on24.com. 

Document bwr0000020010804dwcl05llh




 U.S. stocks set for ugly start, slowdown fuels profit angst. 

 By Denise Duclaux 
565 words
20 December 2000
14:20
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 20 (Reuters) - Wall Street girded for a dismal start on Wednesday as profit warnings and investment downgrades pounded the market one day after the U.S. Federal Reserve warned the nation's economy may be slowing too quickly. 

 "The sentiment out there is very cautious," said Larry Wachtel, a market analyst at Prudential Securities. "The sentiment is 'Don't get in the way of this thing.'" 

 Less than a half-hour before the opening bell, the Nasdaq 100 pre-market indicator signaled a drop of 3.5 percent in Nasdaq's 100 biggest stocks. Standard & Poor's 500 Index futures fell 15.00 points to 1,302.90. Dow Jones industrial average futures tumbled 91 points to 10,610. 

 Merrill Lynch said before the opening bell it had downgraded its investment rating to neutral from accumulate for the world's largest computer company, International Business Machines Corp., blaming a slowdown in technology spending and long-term fundamental issues. Merrill also cut Hewlett-Packard to near-term neutral from accumulate. Both stock are Dow components. 

 Merrill cut its intermediate-term rating on computer network parts maker and Nasdaq heavyweight Cisco Systems Inc. to accumulate from buy on concerns about service provider capital spending and a slowdown in corporate technology spending. 

 In other dour news, the board of phone giant AT&T Corp is meeting to cut its annual dividend by as much as 77 percent, the Wall Street Journal reported on Wednesday, citing people familiar with the situation. 

 The U.S. central bank's policy-makers on the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) kept interest rates steady on Tuesday, but signaled they were ready to cut rates if necessary to keep the nation's economy out of a recession. 

 Stocks buckled, with the tech-heavy Nasdaq and Standard & Poor's 500 indexes carving out new lows for the year, as fears of a softening economy intensified. 

 The economic pullback has helped trigger a flood of profit warnings. Networking equipment maker Foundry Networks Inc., railroad operator Norfolk Southern Corp. and contract electronics manufacturer Jabil Circuits Inc. after the closing bell added their names to a long list of businesses warning results would miss estimates. 

 "The pervasive problem is this ongoing drumbeat of negative pre-announcements," Wachtel said. 

 The FOMC shifted dramatically from its 11-month-old position that inflation posed the main risk to the record U.S. expansion - highlighting how swiftly the economic mood has soured and casting a shadow on markets across the globe. 

 The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index went into freefall after the Fed's afternoon announcement on Tuesday. It ended with a loss of 112.81 points, or 4.30 percent, at 2,511.71, its lowest close for the year. 

 The blue-chip Dow Jones Industrial average fell 61.05 points, or 0.57 percent, to 10,584.37 after gaining 139 points earlier. The benchmark Standard & Poor's 500 fell 17.14 points, or about 1.30 percent, to hit a new 52-week low of 1,305.60, also a 2000 closing low. 

 While interest-rate cuts are positive for stocks because they cut corporate borrowing costs, many experts say the easier money policy would take months to filter through the economy to benefit the corporate bottom line. 

Document lba0000020010821dwck09nzg




 Fund managers seek safe havens in U.S. stock minefield. 

 By Patricia Vowinkel 
933 words
20 December 2000
23:26
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 20 (Reuters) - As he tries to pick his way through the U.S. stock market minefield, fund manager Mike Weiner says he's hoping to fireproof his portfolios with a "fire and ice" strategy. 

 The "ice", or traditional Old Economy stocks, keep the portfolios from going up in flames when every day seems to bring another high-profile profit warning. 

 But the "fire", or growth-oriented stocks, help keep returns from going cold, says Weiner, who manages $8 billion for Banc One Investment Advisors. 

 "Rather than go to any one extreme, I'm building a portfolio of extremes," he said. 

 Weiner says he also has been taking smaller positions in a greater number of stocks. The reason? Less damage if one of the stocks blows up after a profit warning or other bad news. 

 And with no lack of bad news lately, fund managers like Weiner have been forced to find strategies to dodge the bullets. 

 One of the latest casualties has been AT&T Corp. . 

 AT&T, after the stock market close, said it was slashing its fourth-quarter dividend by 83 percent to 3.75 cents from 22 cents a share. AT&T fell more than 7 percent to close at 19 on Wednesday. 

 Other companies, including Microsoft Corp. , Compaq Computer Corp. , and Intel Corp. , recently warned that earnings would fall short of expectations amid a weakening economy and slowing sales. 

 "We all know Wall Street is a world of extremes," said Francis Gannon, senior portfolio manager at SunAmerica Asset Management. "A year ago at this time we were marking stocks up for seemingly no reason at all. Now, at this time a year later, we're marking stocks down for a bevy of reasons," he said. 

 FUNDS SCALE BACK TECH INVESTMENTS 

 In the hard-hit growth funds, managers who made a killing on tech stocks in 1999 have now been scaling back those investments amid a 50 percent drop in the tech-heavy Nasdaq stock market this year. 

 At John Hancock Funds, the growth funds have been diverting some of that capital to financial and pharmaceutical stocks, said chief investment officer Will Braman, whose firm has about $30 billion in assets under management. 

 But at the bargain-hunting value funds, some of the tech stock carnage has begun to look cheap, he said. 

 Those value fund managers have started to look at stocks like Dell Computer Corp. , which closed Wednesday at $16-5/8 and Compaq, which closed Wednesday at $15.48. 

 "It's very uncomfortable because every day it's - 'to what degree do we change our portfolio strategy'," Braman said. "You think about every holding, you think about the risks that every sector, industry and company that are in the portfolios are exposed to," Braman said. 

 Although fund managers said they believe the Federal Reserve will cut interest rates in the first quarter of next year, they said they don't expect it to immediately jumpstart the economy. 

 They said they believe the Fed will have to cut interest rates by about 100 to 150 basis points to revive economic growth. 

 One reason is that investors who have been badly burned in the past year may be reluctant to take big risks again so soon, said Paul McCulley, a managing director and portfolio manager at PIMCO. 

 "Now we're dealing with not just a garden variety slowing of the economy, but effectively the busting of a bubble," McCulley said. "That busting of the bubble makes investors very risk-averse," he said. 

 For some fund managers, that means being very choosy about specific stocks, looking for companies with strong fundamentals despite the market conditions. 

 Banc One's Weiner said he's interested in insurance and auto parts makers. 

 OLD ECONOMY STOCKS LESS VOLATILE 

 Or, stocks like diesel engine maker Cummins Engine Co. Inc. , which he does not own, because it is less volatile when there is bad news. 

 Cummins, for instance, fell about 5 percent on Tuesday after it said it expects to post a loss in the fourth quarter, instead of the profit Wall Street expected. 

 But compare that with Internet networking firm Foundry Networks Inc. , which tumbled more than 57 percent to close at 13 on Wednesday, after the company late Tuesday issued a fourth-quarter profit warning. 

 Tech stocks are attractive if they have strong fundamentals and have had no profit warnings, or if they have had three or four profit warnings, he said. 

 Shares of personal computer makers, for instance, may be through the worst of it, while optical networkers may be just at the beginning. 

 "If I'm going to own a broad array of stocks, some of them are going to disappoint," he said. But, he said, "own smaller positions in them, know there is more protection in the Old Economy stocks because they're already at 6 times earnings and don't be too tempted by the cheap tech stocks because they get cheaper." 

 Other fund managers have also tried to find a safe haven in cash. 

 U.S. stock fund managers kept an average of 6 percent of assets in cash in October, up from 5.3 percent in September and the highest level since September 1998. 

 Funds usually prefer to be fully invested in stocks where they can reap better returns. But, at times, it can be better than the alternatives. 

 "Cash may not yield all that much, but it trades at par - and stocks don't," PIMCO's McCulley said. 

Document lba0000020010821dwck09h4i




 Foundry Networks shares tumble after  profit warning . 

334 words
20 December 2000
15:57
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LOS ANGELES, Dec 20 (Reuters) - Shares of Internet networking products maker Foundry Networks Inc. lost nearly half their value in early trade on Wednesday after the company issued an earnings warning and several brokerages downgraded the stock. 

 Foundry's warning, after the market closed on Tuesday, indicated that a slowdown in spending on personal computers and their components had spread to the networking business. That hit shares of industry behemoth Cisco Systems Inc., whose stock was down nearly 10 percent to its lowest levels since November 1999. 

 Foundry was down $15 to $15-9/16 on the Nasdaq, where it was the second-largest percentage loser. Shares of San Jose, Calif.-based Foundry have been trading at their lowest levels in more than a year, since it began trading on Nasdaq. 

 Foundry said it expects fourth-quarter earnings of 11 to 14 cents a share, well below a consensus estimate of 24 cents among analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 "Foundry's pre-announcement represents the first acknowledgment that capital spending issues are also impacting suppliers of next-generation switching solutions," Merrill Lynch analyst Michael Ching wrote in a report. 

 Cisco was off $4-3/8 to $37-3/8 after Merrill cut its rating on the stock to "intermediate-term accumulate" from "buy," citing concerns over a slowdown in corporate spending. Cisco was the most active issue on the Nasdaq. 

 Networking rival Extreme Networks Inc. also lost ground in early trade after SG Cowen cut its rating on the stock to "neutral" from "buy," citing a slowing economy and Extreme Networks' high stock price. Extreme Networks was down more than 25 percent, off $13-3/8 to $36-3/16. 

 Merrill also cut its ratings on PC makers International Business Machines Corp. and Hewlett Packard Co. 

 Also downgrading Foundry were ABN Amro, SG Cowen, Deutsche Bank and Robertson Stephens. Brokerages revised downward their earnings estimates for the company, in line with Foundry's earnings warning. 

Document lba0000020010821dwck099l3




 Fed recession fear. 

589 words
20 December 2000
Daily Telegraph
DAITEL
43
English
(c) 2000 Nationwide News Proprietary Ltd

 THE US Federal Reserve today acknowledged that "economic weakness" is its greatest threat. 

 But it did not cut rates immediately - and that sent Wall Street spiralling down two hours before the end of New York's trading session. 

 The Nasdaq index, which had been up 2.8 per cent, closed 4.3 per cent lower, while the Dow Jones industrial average suffered a similar reversal. 

 Wall Street's reversal went on to knock confidence on the Australian sharemarket. 

 The All Ordinaries index was down 26 points at 3177.6 after an hour. 

 Few of the leading stocks advanced - Brambles recovered 41c to $43.70, Publishing & Broadcasting rose 18c to $12.98 and Rio Tinto 75c to $29.15. 

 But News Corporation, with its strong exposure to the US market, fell 35c to $15.30. 

 Woolworths tumbled 18c or 2.2 per cent to 8.01 although Coles Myer was only a cent down at $7.00. 

 Seven Network dropped 30c to $6.20, apparently defeated in its AFL bid. 

 At 6am today (Sydney time), the Fed's open markets committee said it let the overnight bank lending rate stand at 6.5 per cent, the fifth successive month they've done so since May 16, when they last raised borrowing costs. 

 In a statement, it pointed to eroding consumer confidence, substantial shortfalls in sales and earnings, and stress in some segments of the financial markets. 

 This suggested economic growth may be slowing further. 

 "While some inflation risks persist, they are diminished by the more moderate pace of economic activity," the statement said. 

 The Fed said it will "continue to monitor closely the evolving economic situation." 

 US shares pared earlier gains and Treasury securities fell following the announcement. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 61.05 points, or 0.6 per cent, having been up 139 points earlier. The Nasdaq composite index fell 112.82 points, having been up 72 points in the session. 

 The Treasury's 10-year note fell 0.25, pushing up its yield three basis points higher to 5.20 per cent. 

 The Fed's new-found concern about a slowing economy marks a reversal from previous statements. 

 Previously Fed officials had warned that inflation posed the biggest risk. 

 The Australian dollar was a beneficiary of the Fed's change in bias. 

 The Aussie unit climbed to US54.58c at mid-morning, compared with US54.26c in Sydney last night. 

 On the trade-weighted index, it rose from 50.5 to 50.7. THE STATEMENT The Federal Open Market Committee at its meeting today decided to maintain the existing stance of monetary policy, keeping its target for the federal funds rate at 6-1/2 per cent. 

 The drag on demand and profits from rising energy costs, as well as eroding consumer confidence, reports of substantial shortfalls in sales and earnings, and stress in some segments of the financial markets suggest that economic growth may be slowing further. 

 While some inflation risks persist, they are diminished by the more moderate pace of economic activity and by the absence of any indication that longer-term inflation expectations have increased. 

 The committee will continue to monitor closely the evolving economic situation. 

 Against the background of its long-run goals of price stability and sustainable economic growth and of the information currently available, the committee consequently believes that the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future. 

 * Lend Lease slumps 11 per cent after profit warning - Page 45. 

Document daitel0020010805dwck00wkh




European Stock Markets
 European Shares Ignore Time Warner Warning --- Optimism on U.S. Interest Rates Helps Markets --- Media and Telecommunications Stocks Seesaw   

 By Joe Maguire WSJ.com   
457 words
20 December 2000
The Asian Wall Street Journal
AWSJ
26
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

 LONDON -- Shares across Europe were trading higher, as media and communications stocks shrugged off early weakness caused by a profitwarning issued by U.S. media giant Time Warner.   

 Optimism that the U.S. Federal Reserve could relax its outlook for interest rates them also lent strength to the markets.   

 At midday, the Dow Jones Stoxx Index was up 2.68 points at 367.26 points. The Dow Jones Euro Stoxx Index, which tracks companies in countries that joined the common currency, rose 4.47 points to 395.08 points.   

 The Dow Jones Stoxx 50 Index climbed 45.6 points to 4693 points, and the Dow Jones Euro Stoxx 50 added 66.3 points to 4810.6 points.   

 Meanwhile, the euro was at 88.94 cents, down from the 89.37 cents quoted late in New York on Monday. The British pound was at $1.4647, down from $1.4743 quoted late in New York on Monday.   

 Time Warner, just weeks away from completing its merger with America Online, became the latest corporate giant to issue a profit warning, saying Monday that its fourth-quarter earnings would be hurt by weaker ad revenue from its cable networks and a downturn in its movie and music units.   

 Media and communications shares suffered an initial drop on the warning, but were spurred higher by expectations that Fed officials, who were meeting Tuesday, were contemplating a more aggressive response to a weakening U.S. economy than earlier anticipated. The U.S. economy has slowed so rapidly that some economists say the Fed could issue an explicit statement that the risks of recession now exceed those of inflation, or they even may cut interest rates.   

 "That's really the only story in town at the moment," said Richard Crehan, U.K. equities analyst at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in London. But Mr. Crehan added that equities markets already have priced in expectations that the Fed will shift its bias from one focusing on inflationary risks to a neutral stance. "If we don't see a change in the bias, I think we're looking at another three or four months of profit warnings and earnings downgrades to handle," he said.   

 Meanwhile, a late-morning report that inflation in the 11-member euro zone had risen to its highest levels in more than six years had little effect on the markets.   

 Jeremy Batstone, head of research for European equities at NatWest Stockbrokers, said that, while inflation remained above the European Central Bank's 2% threshold, the report wasn't likely to have interest-rate implications.   

Document awsj000020010803dwck00f8v




 MARKET TALK: ING Says Worsening Legacy Mkt To Hit Nortel 

1,394 words
20 December 2000
16:17
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



11:18 (Dow Jones) Citing increasing concern about start-up phone
company spending, ING Barings telecommunications equipment analyst Tom
Lauria cut his rating on Nortel Networks (NT) to buy from strong buy and
lowered 2001 revenue view to $38.6 billion from $39.2 billion. Lauria
said he expects Nortel's circuit switching sales will decrease 15%, up
from his previous estimate of 10%, as the legacy market continues to
deteriorate. (JDB)



11:14 (Dow Jones) Spot gold up $3 at $273.25/oz, eyes $275/oz, says
dealer. Mainly euro-related buying triggers stops, with bit of short
covering thrown in, he adds. Would be "very, very surprised" if selling
doesn't emerge at $275. (JMG)



11:08 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps are off their lows, but "act skittish",
one trader says. "There's interest to buy it at the lows, but it hasn't
worked," one trader says. Market is in a range of 1292.50-1300. "What
you have to worry about is how the herd goes, so there's not a lot of
people taking bets," he adds. (DMC)



11:06 (Dow Jones) Feb. Nymex crude is sharply lower, down 81 cents to
$27.15 a barrel, following API, DOE inventory reports showing sizeable
builds. Feb. fell to as low as $27, the lowest since May 5 before
recovering some ground. "We are in this downward swing," says analyst
Tom Bentz of BNP Paribas Futures. "The market may have been looking for
something more supportive to stop the (month-long) slide. It didn't get
it." (MXF)



10:59 (Dow Jones) A downgrade of Cisco Systems (CSCO) coupled with an
earnings warning from Foundry Networks (FDRY) and bleak outlook for
Jabil Circuit (JBL) is dragging down chip stocks. Broadcom (BRCM) was
recently off 3.6%,  while PMC-Sierra (PMCS) was down 3.6%, and Texas
Instruments (TXN) was off 3.5%. But wait, could it be true? Both Altera
Corp. (ALTR) and Xilinx Inc. (XLNX) were recently trading up, maybe
because they already warned. (DLF)



10:56 (Dow Jones) "Every day that the Fed waits to cut interest rates,
the odds of a recession increase," says GKST economist Brian Wesbury,
who sees 60% odds of recession in 2001. (JC)



10:55 (Dow Jones) Trader says Fed Funds futures pricing in a 46%
chance of a 50 basis point ease in Jan., and 100% chance of a 25 basis
point ease. Trader notes contract went up about 5K in open interest
Tuesday. He says this is in contrast to what usually happens on an FOMC
day when participants generally take profits on positions. (CMN)



10:45 (Dow Jones) Is the end of the Levitt era at SEC at hand? SEC
Chairman Arthur Levitt will make an announcement later Wednesday morning
regarding his tenure at the Commission. (JC)



10:35 (Dow Jones) Latin American dot-coms are scraping the bottom
Wednesday, with StarMedia (STRM) and AOL Latin America (AOLA) having hit
new all-time lows. El Sitio (LCTO) is also at its low point - 75 cents -
on the Nasdaq. (AG)



10:30 (Dow Jones) If the Fed cuts interest rates in January as it
indicated it might, it could mark the end of the "bottoming process and
the beginning of the next stage, a strong bull move" in retailing
stocks, according to Merrill Lynch analyst Daniel Barry. The current
weakness in the group could be the last major buying opportunity, he
wrote in a research note. Barry recommends buying on bad news. He said
his best stock ideas are Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT), Costco Cos. (COST)
and Dollar Tree Stores Inc. (DLTR). (PAP)



10:27 (Dow Jones) Floor traders say activity is mixed in S&Ps in the
early trade. Dealers were on both sides, with volume decent. Market is
attempting to work higher, but traders don't see it happening. "It still
acts bad and we're still going lower," one trader says. His near-term
target for March S&Ps is 1250. (DMC)



10:20 (Dow Jones) Litigation, shmitigation. Tobacco stocks a little
better in fast-falling market, but a longer view is really revealing.
Over the last week sector has gained over 5%, and the numbers get better
the further back you go in calendar. Best sector over one year? Yep,
it's tobacco, with four key stocks - Philip Morris (MO), RJ Reynolds
Tobacco (RJR), UST (UST) and Universal Corp. (UW) - up over 80% as a
group. (GC)



10:15 (Dow Jones) Mortgage rates need to drop another 40 BP to trigger
a full-blown refinancing wave comparable to the one occurred in 1998,
Salomon Smith Barney analysts say. However, the MBA refi index has not
gotten anywhere near 1998 levels and the major difference between 1998
and the current environment is that the current overhang of refinancable
coupons is much smaller, they say. (JS)



10:07 (Dow Jones) High-yield market is mixed early in quiet holiday
trade. Cellular sector is down about a half point, says trader, while
some better performers are in the gaming, oil & gas, and health care
sectors. (RTB)



10:02 (Dow Jones) Another warning from a company with a stock with
little room left to drop. eMachines (EEEE), which now trades at 41 cents
a share, says its 4Q loss will come it between 19 cents and 23 cents a
share, far below the 4-cent loss the Street was expecting. Revenue will
also be down until the third quarter of 2001. The company is one of the
IPO market's biggest disappointments this year. eMachines came public at
$9 a share on March 24. (RJH)



9:56 (Dow Jones) Conseco's (CNC) get-tough boss Gary C. Wendt is doing
a good job, most agree - but there are still caveats aplenty about the
insurer. After Tuesday's deal to sell a big stake in a riverboat casino
to help raise cash (and a call with investors), UBS Warburg says such
actions move CNC "out of the danger zone." But UBS left its "hold" on
the stock and lowered 2000 EPS target to 38c from 60c, based on guidance
from management, and puts price target on stock of $14. CNC off 4% to
10.13. (GC)



9:50 (Dow Jones) Chemical stocks have had their share of hard times,
but maybe the group has hit bottom. Some are interpreting the 6% stock
gain that followed Rohm & Haas Co.'s (ROH) 4Q profit warning Tuesday as
a sign of better times ahead. Lehman Brothers' Timothy Gerdeman says
investors, hopeful of a soft landing for the economy, are looking beyond
near-term pressures. Keep in mind, though, that quite a few folks
thought the worst was over in tech when Intel (INTC) and some others
acted well after poor outlooks. (TG)
   9:45 (Dow Jones) Citing a "dramatic" slowdown in information
technology spending, among other things, Merrill Lynch analyst Thomas
Kraemer cut his ratings on International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)
and Hewlett-Packard Co. (HWP) to near-term neutral from accumulate.
Although the stocks aren't falling as hard as other techs Wednesday,
shares of IBM were still down 5.5% while   H-P's stock was off 4%.
(DLF)



9:43 (Dow Jones) The rout in stocks has helped Treasurys yield to
continue dropping. At 5.09%, the 10-year note is at its lowest yield
since April 1999. The DJIA is down about 1.9%, while the Nasdaq is down
5.6%. (SV)



9:39 (Dow Jones) Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo, is
cutting right to the chase. While others speculate whether the nation
will fall into a recession next year, he says we might, in fact, already
be there. "After all, the beginning of a recession is the end of a boom
when things feel pretty good," Sohn said. (KJT)



9:36 (Dow Jones) Goldman Sachs economists say cumulative easing will
be between 50 and 100 basis points and will be front loaded during first
half of 2001. (JC)



9:34 (Dow Jones) Nasdaq Composite drops below 2400 for first time
since June 15, 1999. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwck04qzl




 MARKET TALK: Gold Eyes $275/Oz, Where Sellers May Enter 

1,322 words
20 December 2000
16:15
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



11:14 (Dow Jones) Spot gold up $3 at $273.25/oz, eyes $275/oz, says
dealer. Mainly euro-related buying triggers stops, with bit of short
covering thrown in, he adds. Would be "very, very surprised" if selling
doesn't emerge at $275. (JMG)



11:08 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps are off their lows, but "act skittish",
one trader says. "There's interest to buy it at the lows, but it hasn't
worked," one trader says. Market is in a range of 1292.50-1300. "What
you have to worry about is how the herd goes, so there's not a lot of
people taking bets," he adds. (DMC)



11:06 (Dow Jones) Feb. Nymex crude is sharply lower, down 81 cents to
$27.15 a barrel, following API, DOE inventory reports showing sizeable
builds. Feb. fell to as low as $27, the lowest since May 5 before
recovering some ground. "We are in this downward swing," says analyst
Tom Bentz of BNP Paribas Futures. "The market may have been looking for
something more supportive to stop the (month-long) slide. It didn't get
it." (MXF)



10:59 (Dow Jones) A downgrade of Cisco Systems (CSCO) coupled with an
earnings warning from Foundry Networks (FDRY) and bleak outlook for
Jabil Circuit (JBL) is dragging down chip stocks. Broadcom (BRCM) was
recently off 3.6%,  while PMC-Sierra (PMCS) was down 3.6%, and Texas
Instruments (TXN) was off 3.5%. But wait, could it be true? Both Altera
Corp. (ALTR) and Xilinx Inc. (XLNX) were recently trading up, maybe
because they already warned. (DLF)



10:56 (Dow Jones) "Every day that the Fed waits to cut interest rates,
the odds of a recession increase," says GKST economist Brian Wesbury,
who sees 60% odds of recession in 2001. (JC)



10:55 (Dow Jones) Trader says Fed Funds futures pricing in a 46%
chance of a 50 basis point ease in Jan., and 100% chance of a 25 basis
point ease. Trader notes contract went up about 5K in open interest
Tuesday. He says this is in contrast to what usually happens on an FOMC
day when participants generally take profits on positions. (CMN)



10:45 (Dow Jones) Is the end of the Levitt era at SEC at hand? SEC
Chairman Arthur Levitt will make an announcement later Wednesday morning
regarding his tenure at the Commission. (JC)



10:35 (Dow Jones) Latin American dot-coms are scraping the bottom
Wednesday, with StarMedia (STRM) and AOL Latin America (AOLA) having hit
new all-time lows. El Sitio (LCTO) is also at its low point - 75 cents -
on the Nasdaq. (AG)



10:30 (Dow Jones) If the Fed cuts interest rates in January as it
indicated it might, it could mark the end of the "bottoming process and
the beginning of the next stage, a strong bull move" in retailing
stocks, according to Merrill Lynch analyst Daniel Barry. The current
weakness in the group could be the last major buying opportunity, he
wrote in a research note. Barry recommends buying on bad news. He said
his best stock ideas are Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT), Costco Cos. (COST)
and Dollar Tree Stores Inc. (DLTR). (PAP)



10:27 (Dow Jones) Floor traders say activity is mixed in S&Ps in the
early trade. Dealers were on both sides, with volume decent. Market is
attempting to work higher, but traders don't see it happening. "It still
acts bad and we're still going lower," one trader says. His near-term
target for March S&Ps is 1250. (DMC)



10:20 (Dow Jones) Litigation, shmitigation. Tobacco stocks a little
better in fast-falling market, but a longer view is really revealing.
Over the last week sector has gained over 5%, and the numbers get better
the further back you go in calendar. Best sector over one year? Yep,
it's tobacco, with four key stocks - Philip Morris (MO), RJ Reynolds
Tobacco (RJR), UST (UST) and Universal Corp. (UW) - up over 80% as a
group. (GC)



10:15 (Dow Jones) Mortgage rates need to drop another 40 BP to trigger
a full-blown refinancing wave comparable to the one occurred in 1998,
Salomon Smith Barney analysts say. However, the MBA refi index has not
gotten anywhere near 1998 levels and the major difference between 1998
and the current environment is that the current overhang of refinancable
coupons is much smaller, they say. (JS)



10:07 (Dow Jones) High-yield market is mixed early in quiet holiday
trade. Cellular sector is down about a half point, says trader, while
some better performers are in the gaming, oil & gas, and health care
sectors. (RTB)



10:02 (Dow Jones) Another warning from a company with a stock with
little room left to drop. eMachines (EEEE), which now trades at 41 cents
a share, says its 4Q loss will come it between 19 cents and 23 cents a
share, far below the 4-cent loss the Street was expecting. Revenue will
also be down until the third quarter of 2001. The company is one of the
IPO market's biggest disappointments this year. eMachines came public at
$9 a share on March 24. (RJH)



9:56 (Dow Jones) Conseco's (CNC) get-tough boss Gary C. Wendt is doing
a good job, most agree - but there are still caveats aplenty about the
insurer. After Tuesday's deal to sell a big stake in a riverboat casino
to help raise cash (and a call with investors), UBS Warburg says such
actions move CNC "out of the danger zone." But UBS left its "hold" on
the stock and lowered 2000 EPS target to 38c from 60c, based on guidance
from management, and puts price target on stock of $14. CNC off 4% to
10.13. (GC)



9:50 (Dow Jones) Chemical stocks have had their share of hard times,
but maybe the group has hit bottom. Some are interpreting the 6% stock
gain that followed Rohm & Haas Co.'s (ROH) 4Q profit warning Tuesday as
a sign of better times ahead. Lehman Brothers' Timothy Gerdeman says
investors, hopeful of a soft landing for the economy, are looking beyond
near-term pressures. Keep in mind, though, that quite a few folks
thought the worst was over in tech when Intel (INTC) and some others
acted well after poor outlooks. (TG)
   9:45 (Dow Jones) Citing a "dramatic" slowdown in information
technology spending, among other things, Merrill Lynch analyst Thomas
Kraemer cut his ratings on International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)
and Hewlett-Packard Co. (HWP) to near-term neutral from accumulate.
Although the stocks aren't falling as hard as other techs Wednesday,
shares of IBM were still down 5.5% while   H-P's stock was off 4%.
(DLF)



9:43 (Dow Jones) The rout in stocks has helped Treasurys yield to
continue dropping. At 5.09%, the 10-year note is at its lowest yield
since April 1999. The DJIA is down about 1.9%, while the Nasdaq is down
5.6%. (SV)



9:39 (Dow Jones) Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo, is
cutting right to the chase. While others speculate whether the nation
will fall into a recession next year, he says we might, in fact, already
be there. "After all, the beginning of a recession is the end of a boom
when things feel pretty good," Sohn said. (KJT)



9:36 (Dow Jones) Goldman Sachs economists say cumulative easing will
be between 50 and 100 basis points and will be front loaded during first
half of 2001. (JC)



9:34 (Dow Jones) Nasdaq Composite drops below 2400 for first time
since June 15, 1999. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwck04qzd




 MARKET TALK: March S&Ps Off Lows, But Act Skittish 

1,278 words
20 December 2000
16:08
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



11:08 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps are off their lows, but "act skittish",
one trader says. "There's interest to buy it at the lows, but it hasn't
worked," one trader says. Market is in a range of 1292.50-1300. "What
you have to worry about is how the herd goes, so there's not a lot of
people taking bets," he adds. (DMC)



11:06 (Dow Jones) Feb. Nymex crude is sharply lower, down 81 cents to
$27.15 a barrel, following API, DOE inventory reports showing sizeable
builds. Feb. fell to as low as $27, the lowest since May 5 before
recovering some ground. "We are in this downward swing," says analyst
Tom Bentz of BNP Paribas Futures. "The market may have been looking for
something more supportive to stop the (month-long) slide. It didn't get
it." (MXF)



10:59 (Dow Jones) A downgrade of Cisco Systems (CSCO) coupled with an
earnings warning from Foundry Networks (FDRY) and bleak outlook for
Jabil Circuit (JBL) is dragging down chip stocks. Broadcom (BRCM) was
recently off 3.6%,  while PMC-Sierra (PMCS) was down 3.6%, and Texas
Instruments (TXN) was off 3.5%. But wait, could it be true? Both Altera
Corp. (ALTR) and Xilinx Inc. (XLNX) were recently trading up, maybe
because they already warned. (DLF)



10:56 (Dow Jones) "Every day that the Fed waits to cut interest rates,
the odds of a recession increase," says GKST economist Brian Wesbury,
who sees 60% odds of recession in 2001. (JC)



10:55 (Dow Jones) Trader says Fed Funds futures pricing in a 46%
chance of a 50 basis point ease in Jan., and 100% chance of a 25 basis
point ease. Trader notes contract went up about 5K in open interest
Tuesday. He says this is in contrast to what usually happens on an FOMC
day when participants generally take profits on positions. (CMN)



10:45 (Dow Jones) Is the end of the Levitt era at SEC at hand? SEC
Chairman Arthur Levitt will make an announcement later Wednesday morning
regarding his tenure at the Commission. (JC)



10:35 (Dow Jones) Latin American dot-coms are scraping the bottom
Wednesday, with StarMedia (STRM) and AOL Latin America (AOLA) having hit
new all-time lows. El Sitio (LCTO) is also at its low point - 75 cents -
on the Nasdaq. (AG)



10:30 (Dow Jones) If the Fed cuts interest rates in January as it
indicated it might, it could mark the end of the "bottoming process and
the beginning of the next stage, a strong bull move" in retailing
stocks, according to Merrill Lynch analyst Daniel Barry. The current
weakness in the group could be the last major buying opportunity, he
wrote in a research note. Barry recommends buying on bad news. He said
his best stock ideas are Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT), Costco Cos. (COST)
and Dollar Tree Stores Inc. (DLTR). (PAP)



10:27 (Dow Jones) Floor traders say activity is mixed in S&Ps in the
early trade. Dealers were on both sides, with volume decent. Market is
attempting to work higher, but traders don't see it happening. "It still
acts bad and we're still going lower," one trader says. His near-term
target for March S&Ps is 1250. (DMC)



10:20 (Dow Jones) Litigation, shmitigation. Tobacco stocks a little
better in fast-falling market, but a longer view is really revealing.
Over the last week sector has gained over 5%, and the numbers get better
the further back you go in calendar. Best sector over one year? Yep,
it's tobacco, with four key stocks - Philip Morris (MO), RJ Reynolds
Tobacco (RJR), UST (UST) and Universal Corp. (UW) - up over 80% as a
group. (GC)



10:15 (Dow Jones) Mortgage rates need to drop another 40 BP to trigger
a full-blown refinancing wave comparable to the one occurred in 1998,
Salomon Smith Barney analysts say. However, the MBA refi index has not
gotten anywhere near 1998 levels and the major difference between 1998
and the current environment is that the current overhang of refinancable
coupons is much smaller, they say. (JS)



10:07 (Dow Jones) High-yield market is mixed early in quiet holiday
trade. Cellular sector is down about a half point, says trader, while
some better performers are in the gaming, oil & gas, and health care
sectors. (RTB)



10:02 (Dow Jones) Another warning from a company with a stock with
little room left to drop. eMachines (EEEE), which now trades at 41 cents
a share, says its 4Q loss will come it between 19 cents and 23 cents a
share, far below the 4-cent loss the Street was expecting. Revenue will
also be down until the third quarter of 2001. The company is one of the
IPO market's biggest disappointments this year. eMachines came public at
$9 a share on March 24. (RJH)



9:56 (Dow Jones) Conseco's (CNC) get-tough boss Gary C. Wendt is doing
a good job, most agree - but there are still caveats aplenty about the
insurer. After Tuesday's deal to sell a big stake in a riverboat casino
to help raise cash (and a call with investors), UBS Warburg says such
actions move CNC "out of the danger zone." But UBS left its "hold" on
the stock and lowered 2000 EPS target to 38c from 60c, based on guidance
from management, and puts price target on stock of $14. CNC off 4% to
10.13. (GC)



9:50 (Dow Jones) Chemical stocks have had their share of hard times,
but maybe the group has hit bottom. Some are interpreting the 6% stock
gain that followed Rohm & Haas Co.'s (ROH) 4Q profit warning Tuesday as
a sign of better times ahead. Lehman Brothers' Timothy Gerdeman says
investors, hopeful of a soft landing for the economy, are looking beyond
near-term pressures. Keep in mind, though, that quite a few folks
thought the worst was over in tech when Intel (INTC) and some others
acted well after poor outlooks. (TG)
   9:45 (Dow Jones) Citing a "dramatic" slowdown in information
technology spending, among other things, Merrill Lynch analyst Thomas
Kraemer cut his ratings on International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)
and Hewlett-Packard Co. (HWP) to near-term neutral from accumulate.
Although the stocks aren't falling as hard as other techs Wednesday,
shares of IBM were still down 5.5% while   H-P's stock was off 4%.
(DLF)



9:43 (Dow Jones) The rout in stocks has helped Treasurys yield to
continue dropping. At 5.09%, the 10-year note is at its lowest yield
since April 1999. The DJIA is down about 1.9%, while the Nasdaq is down
5.6%. (SV)



9:39 (Dow Jones) Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo, is
cutting right to the chase. While others speculate whether the nation
will fall into a recession next year, he says we might, in fact, already
be there. "After all, the beginning of a recession is the end of a boom
when things feel pretty good," Sohn said. (KJT)



9:36 (Dow Jones) Goldman Sachs economists say cumulative easing will
be between 50 and 100 basis points and will be front loaded during first
half of 2001. (JC)



9:34 (Dow Jones) Nasdaq Composite drops below 2400 for first time
since June 15, 1999. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwck04qyr




 MARKET TALK: Feb. Crude Moves Sharply Lower 

1,206 words
20 December 2000
16:06
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



11:06 (Dow Jones) Feb. Nymex crude is sharply lower, down 81 cents to
$27.15 a barrel, following API, DOE inventory reports showing sizeable
builds. Feb. fell to as low as $27, the lowest since May 5 before
recovering some ground. "We are in this downward swing," says analyst
Tom Bentz of BNP Paribas Futures. "The market may have been looking for
something more supportive to stop the (month-long) slide. It didn't get
it." (MXF)



10:59 (Dow Jones) A downgrade of Cisco Systems (CSCO) coupled with an
earnings warning from Foundry Networks (FDRY) and bleak outlook for
Jabil Circuit (JBL) is dragging down chip stocks. Broadcom (BRCM) was
recently off 3.6%,  while PMC-Sierra (PMCS) was down 3.6%, and Texas
Instruments (TXN) was off 3.5%. But wait, could it be true? Both Altera
Corp. (ALTR) and Xilinx Inc. (XLNX) were recently trading up, maybe
because they already warned. (DLF)



10:56 (Dow Jones) "Every day that the Fed waits to cut interest rates,
the odds of a recession increase," says GKST economist Brian Wesbury,
who sees 60% odds of recession in 2001. (JC)



10:55 (Dow Jones) Trader says Fed Funds futures pricing in a 46%
chance of a 50 basis point ease in Jan., and 100% chance of a 25 basis
point ease. Trader notes contract went up about 5K in open interest
Tuesday. He says this is in contrast to what usually happens on an FOMC
day when participants generally take profits on positions. (CMN)



10:45 (Dow Jones) Is the end of the Levitt era at SEC at hand? SEC
Chairman Arthur Levitt will make an announcement later Wednesday morning
regarding his tenure at the Commission. (JC)



10:35 (Dow Jones) Latin American dot-coms are scraping the bottom
Wednesday, with StarMedia (STRM) and AOL Latin America (AOLA) having hit
new all-time lows. El Sitio (LCTO) is also at its low point - 75 cents -
on the Nasdaq. (AG)



10:30 (Dow Jones) If the Fed cuts interest rates in January as it
indicated it might, it could mark the end of the "bottoming process and
the beginning of the next stage, a strong bull move" in retailing
stocks, according to Merrill Lynch analyst Daniel Barry. The current
weakness in the group could be the last major buying opportunity, he
wrote in a research note. Barry recommends buying on bad news. He said
his best stock ideas are Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT), Costco Cos. (COST)
and Dollar Tree Stores Inc. (DLTR). (PAP)



10:27 (Dow Jones) Floor traders say activity is mixed in S&Ps in the
early trade. Dealers were on both sides, with volume decent. Market is
attempting to work higher, but traders don't see it happening. "It still
acts bad and we're still going lower," one trader says. His near-term
target for March S&Ps is 1250. (DMC)



10:20 (Dow Jones) Litigation, shmitigation. Tobacco stocks a little
better in fast-falling market, but a longer view is really revealing.
Over the last week sector has gained over 5%, and the numbers get better
the further back you go in calendar. Best sector over one year? Yep,
it's tobacco, with four key stocks - Philip Morris (MO), RJ Reynolds
Tobacco (RJR), UST (UST) and Universal Corp. (UW) - up over 80% as a
group. (GC)



10:15 (Dow Jones) Mortgage rates need to drop another 40 BP to trigger
a full-blown refinancing wave comparable to the one occurred in 1998,
Salomon Smith Barney analysts say. However, the MBA refi index has not
gotten anywhere near 1998 levels and the major difference between 1998
and the current environment is that the current overhang of refinancable
coupons is much smaller, they say. (JS)



10:07 (Dow Jones) High-yield market is mixed early in quiet holiday
trade. Cellular sector is down about a half point, says trader, while
some better performers are in the gaming, oil & gas, and health care
sectors. (RTB)



10:02 (Dow Jones) Another warning from a company with a stock with
little room left to drop. eMachines (EEEE), which now trades at 41 cents
a share, says its 4Q loss will come it between 19 cents and 23 cents a
share, far below the 4-cent loss the Street was expecting. Revenue will
also be down until the third quarter of 2001. The company is one of the
IPO market's biggest disappointments this year. eMachines came public at
$9 a share on March 24. (RJH)



9:56 (Dow Jones) Conseco's (CNC) get-tough boss Gary C. Wendt is doing
a good job, most agree - but there are still caveats aplenty about the
insurer. After Tuesday's deal to sell a big stake in a riverboat casino
to help raise cash (and a call with investors), UBS Warburg says such
actions move CNC "out of the danger zone." But UBS left its "hold" on
the stock and lowered 2000 EPS target to 38c from 60c, based on guidance
from management, and puts price target on stock of $14. CNC off 4% to
10.13. (GC)



9:50 (Dow Jones) Chemical stocks have had their share of hard times,
but maybe the group has hit bottom. Some are interpreting the 6% stock
gain that followed Rohm & Haas Co.'s (ROH) 4Q profit warning Tuesday as
a sign of better times ahead. Lehman Brothers' Timothy Gerdeman says
investors, hopeful of a soft landing for the economy, are looking beyond
near-term pressures. Keep in mind, though, that quite a few folks
thought the worst was over in tech when Intel (INTC) and some others
acted well after poor outlooks. (TG)
   9:45 (Dow Jones) Citing a "dramatic" slowdown in information
technology spending, among other things, Merrill Lynch analyst Thomas
Kraemer cut his ratings on International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)
and Hewlett-Packard Co. (HWP) to near-term neutral from accumulate.
Although the stocks aren't falling as hard as other techs Wednesday,
shares of IBM were still down 5.5% while   H-P's stock was off 4%.
(DLF)



9:43 (Dow Jones) The rout in stocks has helped Treasurys yield to
continue dropping. At 5.09%, the 10-year note is at its lowest yield
since April 1999. The DJIA is down about 1.9%, while the Nasdaq is down
5.6%. (SV)



9:39 (Dow Jones) Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo, is
cutting right to the chase. While others speculate whether the nation
will fall into a recession next year, he says we might, in fact, already
be there. "After all, the beginning of a recession is the end of a boom
when things feel pretty good," Sohn said. (KJT)



9:36 (Dow Jones) Goldman Sachs economists say cumulative easing will
be between 50 and 100 basis points and will be front loaded during first
half of 2001. (JC)



9:34 (Dow Jones) Nasdaq Composite drops below 2400 for first time
since June 15, 1999. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwck04qya




 MARKET TALK: Each Day Without Ease Brings Recession Closer 

1,052 words
20 December 2000
15:56
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:56 (Dow Jones) "Every day that the Fed waits to cut interest rates,
the odds of a recession increase," says GKST economist Brian Wesbury,
who sees 60% odds of recession in 2001. (JC)



10:55 (Dow Jones) Trader says Fed Funds futures pricing in a 46%
chance of a 50 basis point ease in Jan., and 100% chance of a 25 basis
point ease. Trader notes contract went up about 5K in open interest
Tuesday. He says this is in contrast to what usually happens on an FOMC
day when participants generally take profits on positions. (CMN)



10:45 (Dow Jones) Is the end of the Levitt era at SEC at hand? SEC
Chairman Arthur Levitt will make an announcement later Wednesday morning
regarding his tenure at the Commission. (JC)



10:35 (Dow Jones) Latin American dot-coms are scraping the bottom
Wednesday, with StarMedia (STRM) and AOL Latin America (AOLA) having hit
new all-time lows. El Sitio (LCTO) is also at its low point - 75 cents -
on the Nasdaq. (AG)



10:30 (Dow Jones) If the Fed cuts interest rates in January as it
indicated it might, it could mark the end of the "bottoming process and
the beginning of the next stage, a strong bull move" in retailing
stocks, according to Merrill Lynch analyst Daniel Barry. The current
weakness in the group could be the last major buying opportunity, he
wrote in a research note. Barry recommends buying on bad news. He said
his best stock ideas are Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT), Costco Cos. (COST)
and Dollar Tree Stores Inc. (DLTR). (PAP)



10:27 (Dow Jones) Floor traders say activity is mixed in S&Ps in the
early trade. Dealers were on both sides, with volume decent. Market is
attempting to work higher, but traders don't see it happening. "It still
acts bad and we're still going lower," one trader says. His near-term
target for March S&Ps is 1250. (DMC)



10:20 (Dow Jones) Litigation, shmitigation. Tobacco stocks a little
better in fast-falling market, but a longer view is really revealing.
Over the last week sector has gained over 5%, and the numbers get better
the further back you go in calendar. Best sector over one year? Yep,
it's tobacco, with four key stocks - Philip Morris (MO), RJ Reynolds
Tobacco (RJR), UST (UST) and Universal Corp. (UW) - up over 80% as a
group. (GC)



10:15 (Dow Jones) Mortgage rates need to drop another 40 BP to trigger
a full-blown refinancing wave comparable to the one occurred in 1998,
Salomon Smith Barney analysts say. However, the MBA refi index has not
gotten anywhere near 1998 levels and the major difference between 1998
and the current environment is that the current overhang of refinancable
coupons is much smaller, they say. (JS)



10:07 (Dow Jones) High-yield market is mixed early in quiet holiday
trade. Cellular sector is down about a half point, says trader, while
some better performers are in the gaming, oil & gas, and health care
sectors. (RTB)



10:02 (Dow Jones) Another warning from a company with a stock with
little room left to drop. eMachines (EEEE), which now trades at 41 cents
a share, says its 4Q loss will come it between 19 cents and 23 cents a
share, far below the 4-cent loss the Street was expecting. Revenue will
also be down until the third quarter of 2001. The company is one of the
IPO market's biggest disappointments this year. eMachines came public at
$9 a share on March 24. (RJH)



9:56 (Dow Jones) Conseco's (CNC) get-tough boss Gary C. Wendt is doing
a good job, most agree - but there are still caveats aplenty about the
insurer. After Tuesday's deal to sell a big stake in a riverboat casino
to help raise cash (and a call with investors), UBS Warburg says such
actions move CNC "out of the danger zone." But UBS left its "hold" on
the stock and lowered 2000 EPS target to 38c from 60c, based on guidance
from management, and puts price target on stock of $14. CNC off 4% to
10.13. (GC)



9:50 (Dow Jones) Chemical stocks have had their share of hard times,
but maybe the group has hit bottom. Some are interpreting the 6% stock
gain that followed Rohm & Haas Co.'s (ROH) 4Q profit warning Tuesday as
a sign of better times ahead. Lehman Brothers' Timothy Gerdeman says
investors, hopeful of a soft landing for the economy, are looking beyond
near-term pressures. Keep in mind, though, that quite a few folks
thought the worst was over in tech when Intel (INTC) and some others
acted well after poor outlooks. (TG)
   9:45 (Dow Jones) Citing a "dramatic" slowdown in information
technology spending, among other things, Merrill Lynch analyst Thomas
Kraemer cut his ratings on International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)
and Hewlett-Packard Co. (HWP) to near-term neutral from accumulate.
Although the stocks aren't falling as hard as other techs Wednesday,
shares of IBM were still down 5.5% while   H-P's stock was off 4%.
(DLF)



9:43 (Dow Jones) The rout in stocks has helped Treasurys yield to
continue dropping. At 5.09%, the 10-year note is at its lowest yield
since April 1999. The DJIA is down about 1.9%, while the Nasdaq is down
5.6%. (SV)



9:39 (Dow Jones) Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo, is
cutting right to the chase. While others speculate whether the nation
will fall into a recession next year, he says we might, in fact, already
be there. "After all, the beginning of a recession is the end of a boom
when things feel pretty good," Sohn said. (KJT)



9:36 (Dow Jones) Goldman Sachs economists say cumulative easing will
be between 50 and 100 basis points and will be front loaded during first
half of 2001. (JC)



9:34 (Dow Jones) Nasdaq Composite drops below 2400 for first time
since June 15, 1999. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwck04qx4




 MARKET TALK: Talk Heats Up For 50BP Cut In January 

1,019 words
20 December 2000
15:54
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:55 (Dow Jones) Trader says Fed Funds futures pricing in a 46%
chance of a 50 basis point ease in Jan., and 100% chance of a 25 basis
point ease. Trader notes contract went up about 5K in open interest
Tuesday. He says this is in contrast to what usually happens on an FOMC
day when participants generally take profits on positions. (CMN)



10:45 (Dow Jones) Is the end of the Levitt era at SEC at hand? SEC
Chairman Arthur Levitt will make an announcement later Wednesday morning
regarding his tenure at the Commission. (JC)



10:35 (Dow Jones) Latin American dot-coms are scraping the bottom
Wednesday, with StarMedia (STRM) and AOL Latin America (AOLA) having hit
new all-time lows. El Sitio (LCTO) is also at its low point - 75 cents -
on the Nasdaq. (AG)



10:30 (Dow Jones) If the Fed cuts interest rates in January as it
indicated it might, it could mark the end of the "bottoming process and
the beginning of the next stage, a strong bull move" in retailing
stocks, according to Merrill Lynch analyst Daniel Barry. The current
weakness in the group could be the last major buying opportunity, he
wrote in a research note. Barry recommends buying on bad news. He said
his best stock ideas are Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT), Costco Cos. (COST)
and Dollar Tree Stores Inc. (DLTR). (PAP)



10:27 (Dow Jones) Floor traders say activity is mixed in S&Ps in the
early trade. Dealers were on both sides, with volume decent. Market is
attempting to work higher, but traders don't see it happening. "It still
acts bad and we're still going lower," one trader says. His near-term
target for March S&Ps is 1250. (DMC)



10:20 (Dow Jones) Litigation, shmitigation. Tobacco stocks a little
better in fast-falling market, but a longer view is really revealing.
Over the last week sector has gained over 5%, and the numbers get better
the further back you go in calendar. Best sector over one year? Yep,
it's tobacco, with four key stocks - Philip Morris (MO), RJ Reynolds
Tobacco (RJR), UST (UST) and Universal Corp. (UW) - up over 80% as a
group. (GC)



10:15 (Dow Jones) Mortgage rates need to drop another 40 BP to trigger
a full-blown refinancing wave comparable to the one occurred in 1998,
Salomon Smith Barney analysts say. However, the MBA refi index has not
gotten anywhere near 1998 levels and the major difference between 1998
and the current environment is that the current overhang of refinancable
coupons is much smaller, they say. (JS)



10:07 (Dow Jones) High-yield market is mixed early in quiet holiday
trade. Cellular sector is down about a half point, says trader, while
some better performers are in the gaming, oil & gas, and health care
sectors. (RTB)



10:02 (Dow Jones) Another warning from a company with a stock with
little room left to drop. eMachines (EEEE), which now trades at 41 cents
a share, says its 4Q loss will come it between 19 cents and 23 cents a
share, far below the 4-cent loss the Street was expecting. Revenue will
also be down until the third quarter of 2001. The company is one of the
IPO market's biggest disappointments this year. eMachines came public at
$9 a share on March 24. (RJH)



9:56 (Dow Jones) Conseco's (CNC) get-tough boss Gary C. Wendt is doing
a good job, most agree - but there are still caveats aplenty about the
insurer. After Tuesday's deal to sell a big stake in a riverboat casino
to help raise cash (and a call with investors), UBS Warburg says such
actions move CNC "out of the danger zone." But UBS left its "hold" on
the stock and lowered 2000 EPS target to 38c from 60c, based on guidance
from management, and puts price target on stock of $14. CNC off 4% to
10.13. (GC)



9:50 (Dow Jones) Chemical stocks have had their share of hard times,
but maybe the group has hit bottom. Some are interpreting the 6% stock
gain that followed Rohm & Haas Co.'s (ROH) 4Q profit warning Tuesday as
a sign of better times ahead. Lehman Brothers' Timothy Gerdeman says
investors, hopeful of a soft landing for the economy, are looking beyond
near-term pressures. Keep in mind, though, that quite a few folks
thought the worst was over in tech when Intel (INTC) and some others
acted well after poor outlooks. (TG)
   9:45 (Dow Jones) Citing a "dramatic" slowdown in information
technology spending, among other things, Merrill Lynch analyst Thomas
Kraemer cut his ratings on International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)
and Hewlett-Packard Co. (HWP) to near-term neutral from accumulate.
Although the stocks aren't falling as hard as other techs Wednesday,
shares of IBM were still down 5.5% while   H-P's stock was off 4%.
(DLF)



9:43 (Dow Jones) The rout in stocks has helped Treasurys yield to
continue dropping. At 5.09%, the 10-year note is at its lowest yield
since April 1999. The DJIA is down about 1.9%, while the Nasdaq is down
5.6%. (SV)



9:39 (Dow Jones) Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo, is
cutting right to the chase. While others speculate whether the nation
will fall into a recession next year, he says we might, in fact, already
be there. "After all, the beginning of a recession is the end of a boom
when things feel pretty good," Sohn said. (KJT)



9:36 (Dow Jones) Goldman Sachs economists say cumulative easing will
be between 50 and 100 basis points and will be front loaded during first
half of 2001. (JC)



9:34 (Dow Jones) Nasdaq Composite drops below 2400 for first time
since June 15, 1999. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwck04qwp




 MARKET TALK: Is SEC Head Levitt Ready To Leave It? 

955 words
20 December 2000
15:45
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:45 (Dow Jones) Is the end of the Levitt era at SEC at hand? SEC
Chairman Arthur Levitt will make an announcement later Wednesday morning
regarding his tenure at the Commission. (JC)



10:35 (Dow Jones) Latin American dot-coms are scraping the bottom
Wednesday, with StarMedia (STRM) and AOL Latin America (AOLA) having hit
new all-time lows. El Sitio (LCTO) is also at its low point - 75 cents -
on the Nasdaq. (AG)



10:30 (Dow Jones) If the Fed cuts interest rates in January as it
indicated it might, it could mark the end of the "bottoming process and
the beginning of the next stage, a strong bull move" in retailing
stocks, according to Merrill Lynch analyst Daniel Barry. The current
weakness in the group could be the last major buying opportunity, he
wrote in a research note. Barry recommends buying on bad news. He said
his best stock ideas are Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT), Costco Cos. (COST)
and Dollar Tree Stores Inc. (DLTR). (PAP)



10:27 (Dow Jones) Floor traders say activity is mixed in S&Ps in the
early trade. Dealers were on both sides, with volume decent. Market is
attempting to work higher, but traders don't see it happening. "It still
acts bad and we're still going lower," one trader says. His near-term
target for March S&Ps is 1250. (DMC)



10:20 (Dow Jones) Litigation, shmitigation. Tobacco stocks a little
better in fast-falling market, but a longer view is really revealing.
Over the last week sector has gained over 5%, and the numbers get better
the further back you go in calendar. Best sector over one year? Yep,
it's tobacco, with four key stocks - Philip Morris (MO), RJ Reynolds
Tobacco (RJR), UST (UST) and Universal Corp. (UW) - up over 80% as a
group. (GC)



10:15 (Dow Jones) Mortgage rates need to drop another 40 BP to trigger
a full-blown refinancing wave comparable to the one occurred in 1998,
Salomon Smith Barney analysts say. However, the MBA refi index has not
gotten anywhere near 1998 levels and the major difference between 1998
and the current environment is that the current overhang of refinancable
coupons is much smaller, they say. (JS)



10:07 (Dow Jones) High-yield market is mixed early in quiet holiday
trade. Cellular sector is down about a half point, says trader, while
some better performers are in the gaming, oil & gas, and health care
sectors. (RTB)



10:02 (Dow Jones) Another warning from a company with a stock with
little room left to drop. eMachines (EEEE), which now trades at 41 cents
a share, says its 4Q loss will come it between 19 cents and 23 cents a
share, far below the 4-cent loss the Street was expecting. Revenue will
also be down until the third quarter of 2001. The company is one of the
IPO market's biggest disappointments this year. eMachines came public at
$9 a share on March 24. (RJH)



9:56 (Dow Jones) Conseco's (CNC) get-tough boss Gary C. Wendt is doing
a good job, most agree - but there are still caveats aplenty about the
insurer. After Tuesday's deal to sell a big stake in a riverboat casino
to help raise cash (and a call with investors), UBS Warburg says such
actions move CNC "out of the danger zone." But UBS left its "hold" on
the stock and lowered 2000 EPS target to 38c from 60c, based on guidance
from management, and puts price target on stock of $14. CNC off 4% to
10.13. (GC)



9:50 (Dow Jones) Chemical stocks have had their share of hard times,
but maybe the group has hit bottom. Some are interpreting the 6% stock
gain that followed Rohm & Haas Co.'s (ROH) 4Q profit warning Tuesday as
a sign of better times ahead. Lehman Brothers' Timothy Gerdeman says
investors, hopeful of a soft landing for the economy, are looking beyond
near-term pressures. Keep in mind, though, that quite a few folks
thought the worst was over in tech when Intel (INTC) and some others
acted well after poor outlooks. (TG)
   9:45 (Dow Jones) Citing a "dramatic" slowdown in information
technology spending, among other things, Merrill Lynch analyst Thomas
Kraemer cut his ratings on International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)
and Hewlett-Packard Co. (HWP) to near-term neutral from accumulate.
Although the stocks aren't falling as hard as other techs Wednesday,
shares of IBM were still down 5.5% while   H-P's stock was off 4%.
(DLF)



9:43 (Dow Jones) The rout in stocks has helped Treasurys yield to
continue dropping. At 5.09%, the 10-year note is at its lowest yield
since April 1999. The DJIA is down about 1.9%, while the Nasdaq is down
5.6%. (SV)



9:39 (Dow Jones) Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo, is
cutting right to the chase. While others speculate whether the nation
will fall into a recession next year, he says we might, in fact, already
be there. "After all, the beginning of a recession is the end of a boom
when things feel pretty good," Sohn said. (KJT)



9:36 (Dow Jones) Goldman Sachs economists say cumulative easing will
be between 50 and 100 basis points and will be front loaded during first
half of 2001. (JC)



9:34 (Dow Jones) Nasdaq Composite drops below 2400 for first time
since June 15, 1999. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwck04qw3




 MARKET TALK: Latin American Dot-Coms Don't Escape Selling 

1,410 words
20 December 2000
15:36
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:35 (Dow Jones) Latin American dot-coms are scraping the bottom
Wednesday, with StarMedia (STRM) and AOL Latin America (AOLA) having hit
new all-time lows. El Sitio (LCTO) is also at its low point - 75 cents -
on the Nasdaq. (AG)



10:30 (Dow Jones) If the Fed cuts interest rates in January as it
indicated it might, it could mark the end of the "bottoming process and
the beginning of the next stage, a strong bull move" in retailing
stocks, according to Merrill Lynch analyst Daniel Barry. The current
weakness in the group could be the last major buying opportunity, he
wrote in a research note. Barry recommends buying on bad news. He said
his best stock ideas are Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT), Costco Cos. (COST)
and Dollar Tree Stores Inc. (DLTR). (PAP)



10:27 (Dow Jones) Floor traders say activity is mixed in S&Ps in the
early trade. Dealers were on both sides, with volume decent. Market is
attempting to work higher, but traders don't see it happening. "It still
acts bad and we're still going lower," one trader says. His near-term
target for March S&Ps is 1250. (DMC)



10:20 (Dow Jones) Litigation, shmitigation. Tobacco stocks a little
better in fast-falling market, but a longer view is really revealing.
Over the last week sector has gained over 5%, and the numbers get better
the further back you go in calendar. Best sector over one year? Yep,
it's tobacco, with four key stocks - Philip Morris (MO), RJ Reynolds
Tobacco (RJR), UST (UST) and Universal Corp. (UW) - up over 80% as a
group. (GC)



10:15 (Dow Jones) Mortgage rates need to drop another 40 BP to trigger
a full-blown refinancing wave comparable to the one occurred in 1998,
Salomon Smith Barney analysts say. However, the MBA refi index has not
gotten anywhere near 1998 levels and the major difference between 1998
and the current environment is that the current overhang of refinancable
coupons is much smaller, they say. (JS)



10:07 (Dow Jones) High-yield market is mixed early in quiet holiday
trade. Cellular sector is down about a half point, says trader, while
some better performers are in the gaming, oil & gas, and health care
sectors. (RTB)



10:02 (Dow Jones) Another warning from a company with a stock with
little room left to drop. eMachines (EEEE), which now trades at 41 cents
a share, says its 4Q loss will come it between 19 cents and 23 cents a
share, far below the 4-cent loss the Street was expecting. Revenue will
also be down until the third quarter of 2001. The company is one of the
IPO market's biggest disappointments this year. eMachines came public at
$9 a share on March 24. (RJH)



9:56 (Dow Jones) Conseco's (CNC) get-tough boss Gary C. Wendt is doing
a good job, most agree - but there are still caveats aplenty about the
insurer. After Tuesday's deal to sell a big stake in a riverboat casino
to help raise cash (and a call with investors), UBS Warburg says such
actions move CNC "out of the danger zone." But UBS left its "hold" on
the stock and lowered 2000 EPS target to 38c from 60c, based on guidance
from management, and puts price target on stock of $14. CNC off 4% to
10.13. (GC)



9:50 (Dow Jones) Chemical stocks have had their share of hard times,
but maybe the group has hit bottom. Some are interpreting the 6% stock
gain that followed Rohm & Haas Co.'s (ROH) 4Q profit warning Tuesday as
a sign of better times ahead. Lehman Brothers' Timothy Gerdeman says
investors, hopeful of a soft landing for the economy, are looking beyond
near-term pressures. Keep in mind, though, that quite a few folks
thought the worst was over in tech when Intel (INTC) and some others
acted well after poor outlooks. (TG)
   9:45 (Dow Jones) Citing a "dramatic" slowdown in information
technology spending, among other things, Merrill Lynch analyst Thomas
Kraemer cut his ratings on International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)
and Hewlett-Packard Co. (HWP) to near-term neutral from accumulate.
Although the stocks aren't falling as hard as other techs Wednesday,
shares of IBM were still down 5.5% while   H-P's stock was off 4%.
(DLF)



9:43 (Dow Jones) The rout in stocks has helped Treasurys yield to
continue dropping. At 5.09%, the 10-year note is at its lowest yield
since April 1999. The DJIA is down about 1.9%, while the Nasdaq is down
5.6%. (SV)



9:39 (Dow Jones) Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo, is
cutting right to the chase. While others speculate whether the nation
will fall into a recession next year, he says we might, in fact, already
be there. "After all, the beginning of a recession is the end of a boom
when things feel pretty good," Sohn said. (KJT)



9:36 (Dow Jones) Goldman Sachs economists say cumulative easing will
be between 50 and 100 basis points and will be front loaded during first
half of 2001. (JC)



9:34 (Dow Jones) Nasdaq Composite drops below 2400 for first time
since June 15, 1999. (TG)



9:31 (Dow Jones) Nasdaq Composite down 4% at first trade. Off 105 at
2406. (TG)



9:30 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude futures are expected to open 50-75 cents
a barrel lower after API, DOE inventory reports showed a large build in
crude stocks last week. API's increase of 2.4 mln bbl and DOE's rise of
3.1 mln bbl bring US total inventories within a few mln bbl of levels a
year ago. Feb crude, down 74c to $27.22, has support at $27.07;
resistance is seen at $28.80. (MXF)



9:28 (Dow Jones) Seems to be a preponderance of early stock
indications Wednesday morning. JBL (21-24), VSH (16-18), GLW (58-61),
EMC (58-61), U (45-47), ADI (50-53), and FTU (25-27) among bigger names.
(TG)



9:23 (Dow Jones) Nymex natural gas seen opening 45-50 cents per MMBtu
higher to $9.55-$9.60, ahead of what is expected to be a bullish AGA
storage report, as market dealt with blistering cold forecasts. "The
sky's the limit," a trader says, "Ten-dollar gas is in the market's
sights." (JEE)



9:17 (Dow Jones) IPE Feb. Brent has shed 23 cents, broken through
psychological support at $24.50, and is trading at a new daily low on
the back of bearish DOE data, say brokers. DOEs show bigger crude build
than APIs (3.1M against 2.4M). Trading at $24.42. Next support $24.35.
(SMF)



9:13 (Dow Jones) George W. Bush will likely tap two people for cabinet
posts who have made shareholders happy over the past decade or so. In
picking Don Evans as his commerce secretary, Bush will be tapping a man
who grew the share price of his company, Tom Brown Inc. (TMBR), from
about $1.50 on a split-adjusted basis in 1985 to roughly $30 today.
Likewise, expected Treasury secretary Paul O'Neill has overseen a strong
rise in the share price of Alcoa (AA) during his 13-year tenure, but his
company has had a tougher 2000. Alcoa's shares were as high as $43.63
earlier this year, only to close at $33.50 yesterday. (RJH)



9:06 (Dow Jones) Sometime presidential hopeful and Forbes Editor in
Chief Steve Forbes was on TV last night adding his voice to the school
of - well, let's call them angry doves - who think Fed not only should
have cut rates but also that it shouldn't have raised rates at all in
2000. Why slow down economy and risk putting folks out of work, Forbes
asked? Meantime, our economy is definitely slowing now. Sidestepping
endless hawk/dove debate, a response to Forbes might be that if six rate
hikes didn't loosen drum-tight labor market, a few rate cuts may not
stop a recession. The lesson for stock investors: The business cycle
still matters. (GC)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwck04qvk




 MARKET TALK: Merrill Says Retail Bottom May Be Near 

1,367 words
20 December 2000
15:30
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:30 (Dow Jones) If the Fed cuts interest rates in January as it
indicated it might, it could mark the end of the "bottoming process and
the beginning of the next stage, a strong bull move" in retailing
stocks, according to Merrill Lynch analyst Daniel Barry. The current
weakness in the group could be the last major buying opportunity, he
wrote in a research note. Barry recommends buying on bad news. He said
his best stock ideas are Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT), Costco Cos. (COST)
and Dollar Tree Stores Inc. (DLTR). (PAP)



10:27 (Dow Jones) Floor traders say activity is mixed in S&Ps in the
early trade. Dealers were on both sides, with volume decent. Market is
attempting to work higher, but traders don't see it happening. "It still
acts bad and we're still going lower," one trader says. His near-term
target for March S&Ps is 1250. (DMC)



10:20 (Dow Jones) Litigation, shmitigation. Tobacco stocks a little
better in fast-falling market, but a longer view is really revealing.
Over the last week sector has gained over 5%, and the numbers get better
the further back you go in calendar. Best sector over one year? Yep,
it's tobacco, with four key stocks - Philip Morris (MO), RJ Reynolds
Tobacco (RJR), UST (UST) and Universal Corp. (UW) - up over 80% as a
group. (GC)



10:15 (Dow Jones) Mortgage rates need to drop another 40 BP to trigger
a full-blown refinancing wave comparable to the one occurred in 1998,
Salomon Smith Barney analysts say. However, the MBA refi index has not
gotten anywhere near 1998 levels and the major difference between 1998
and the current environment is that the current overhang of refinancable
coupons is much smaller, they say. (JS)



10:07 (Dow Jones) High-yield market is mixed early in quiet holiday
trade. Cellular sector is down about a half point, says trader, while
some better performers are in the gaming, oil & gas, and health care
sectors. (RTB)



10:02 (Dow Jones) Another warning from a company with a stock with
little room left to drop. eMachines (EEEE), which now trades at 41 cents
a share, says its 4Q loss will come it between 19 cents and 23 cents a
share, far below the 4-cent loss the Street was expecting. Revenue will
also be down until the third quarter of 2001. The company is one of the
IPO market's biggest disappointments this year. eMachines came public at
$9 a share on March 24. (RJH)



9:56 (Dow Jones) Conseco's (CNC) get-tough boss Gary C. Wendt is doing
a good job, most agree - but there are still caveats aplenty about the
insurer. After Tuesday's deal to sell a big stake in a riverboat casino
to help raise cash (and a call with investors), UBS Warburg says such
actions move CNC "out of the danger zone." But UBS left its "hold" on
the stock and lowered 2000 EPS target to 38c from 60c, based on guidance
from management, and puts price target on stock of $14. CNC off 4% to
10.13. (GC)



9:50 (Dow Jones) Chemical stocks have had their share of hard times,
but maybe the group has hit bottom. Some are interpreting the 6% stock
gain that followed Rohm & Haas Co.'s (ROH) 4Q profit warning Tuesday as
a sign of better times ahead. Lehman Brothers' Timothy Gerdeman says
investors, hopeful of a soft landing for the economy, are looking beyond
near-term pressures. Keep in mind, though, that quite a few folks
thought the worst was over in tech when Intel (INTC) and some others
acted well after poor outlooks. (TG)
   9:45 (Dow Jones) Citing a "dramatic" slowdown in information
technology spending, among other things, Merrill Lynch analyst Thomas
Kraemer cut his ratings on International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)
and Hewlett-Packard Co. (HWP) to near-term neutral from accumulate.
Although the stocks aren't falling as hard as other techs Wednesday,
shares of IBM were still down 5.5% while   H-P's stock was off 4%.
(DLF)



9:43 (Dow Jones) The rout in stocks has helped Treasurys yield to
continue dropping. At 5.09%, the 10-year note is at its lowest yield
since April 1999. The DJIA is down about 1.9%, while the Nasdaq is down
5.6%. (SV)



9:39 (Dow Jones) Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo, is
cutting right to the chase. While others speculate whether the nation
will fall into a recession next year, he says we might, in fact, already
be there. "After all, the beginning of a recession is the end of a boom
when things feel pretty good," Sohn said. (KJT)



9:36 (Dow Jones) Goldman Sachs economists say cumulative easing will
be between 50 and 100 basis points and will be front loaded during first
half of 2001. (JC)



9:34 (Dow Jones) Nasdaq Composite drops below 2400 for first time
since June 15, 1999. (TG)



9:31 (Dow Jones) Nasdaq Composite down 4% at first trade. Off 105 at
2406. (TG)



9:30 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude futures are expected to open 50-75 cents
a barrel lower after API, DOE inventory reports showed a large build in
crude stocks last week. API's increase of 2.4 mln bbl and DOE's rise of
3.1 mln bbl bring US total inventories within a few mln bbl of levels a
year ago. Feb crude, down 74c to $27.22, has support at $27.07;
resistance is seen at $28.80. (MXF)



9:28 (Dow Jones) Seems to be a preponderance of early stock
indications Wednesday morning. JBL (21-24), VSH (16-18), GLW (58-61),
EMC (58-61), U (45-47), ADI (50-53), and FTU (25-27) among bigger names.
(TG)



9:23 (Dow Jones) Nymex natural gas seen opening 45-50 cents per MMBtu
higher to $9.55-$9.60, ahead of what is expected to be a bullish AGA
storage report, as market dealt with blistering cold forecasts. "The
sky's the limit," a trader says, "Ten-dollar gas is in the market's
sights." (JEE)



9:17 (Dow Jones) IPE Feb. Brent has shed 23 cents, broken through
psychological support at $24.50, and is trading at a new daily low on
the back of bearish DOE data, say brokers. DOEs show bigger crude build
than APIs (3.1M against 2.4M). Trading at $24.42. Next support $24.35.
(SMF)



9:13 (Dow Jones) George W. Bush will likely tap two people for cabinet
posts who have made shareholders happy over the past decade or so. In
picking Don Evans as his commerce secretary, Bush will be tapping a man
who grew the share price of his company, Tom Brown Inc. (TMBR), from
about $1.50 on a split-adjusted basis in 1985 to roughly $30 today.
Likewise, expected Treasury secretary Paul O'Neill has overseen a strong
rise in the share price of Alcoa (AA) during his 13-year tenure, but his
company has had a tougher 2000. Alcoa's shares were as high as $43.63
earlier this year, only to close at $33.50 yesterday. (RJH)



9:06 (Dow Jones) Sometime presidential hopeful and Forbes Editor in
Chief Steve Forbes was on TV last night adding his voice to the school
of - well, let's call them angry doves - who think Fed not only should
have cut rates but also that it shouldn't have raised rates at all in
2000. Why slow down economy and risk putting folks out of work, Forbes
asked? Meantime, our economy is definitely slowing now. Sidestepping
endless hawk/dove debate, a response to Forbes might be that if six rate
hikes didn't loosen drum-tight labor market, a few rate cuts may not
stop a recession. The lesson for stock investors: The business cycle
still matters. (GC)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwck04qv3




 MARKET TALK: Trader Sees March S&Ps Heading Lower 

1,274 words
20 December 2000
15:27
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:27 (Dow Jones) Floor traders say activity is mixed in S&Ps in the
early trade. Dealers were on both sides, with volume decent. Market is
attempting to work higher, but traders don't see it happening. "It still
acts bad and we're still going lower," one trader says. His near-term
target for March S&Ps is 1250. (DMC)



10:20 (Dow Jones) Litigation, shmitigation. Tobacco stocks a little
better in fast-falling market, but a longer view is really revealing.
Over the last week sector has gained over 5%, and the numbers get better
the further back you go in calendar. Best sector over one year? Yep,
it's tobacco, with four key stocks - Philip Morris (MO), RJ Reynolds
Tobacco (RJR), UST (UST) and Universal Corp. (UW) - up over 80% as a
group. (GC)



10:15 (Dow Jones) Mortgage rates need to drop another 40 BP to trigger
a full-blown refinancing wave comparable to the one occurred in 1998,
Salomon Smith Barney analysts say. However, the MBA refi index has not
gotten anywhere near 1998 levels and the major difference between 1998
and the current environment is that the current overhang of refinancable
coupons is much smaller, they say. (JS)



10:07 (Dow Jones) High-yield market is mixed early in quiet holiday
trade. Cellular sector is down about a half point, says trader, while
some better performers are in the gaming, oil & gas, and health care
sectors. (RTB)



10:02 (Dow Jones) Another warning from a company with a stock with
little room left to drop. eMachines (EEEE), which now trades at 41 cents
a share, says its 4Q loss will come it between 19 cents and 23 cents a
share, far below the 4-cent loss the Street was expecting. Revenue will
also be down until the third quarter of 2001. The company is one of the
IPO market's biggest disappointments this year. eMachines came public at
$9 a share on March 24. (RJH)



9:56 (Dow Jones) Conseco's (CNC) get-tough boss Gary C. Wendt is doing
a good job, most agree - but there are still caveats aplenty about the
insurer. After Tuesday's deal to sell a big stake in a riverboat casino
to help raise cash (and a call with investors), UBS Warburg says such
actions move CNC "out of the danger zone." But UBS left its "hold" on
the stock and lowered 2000 EPS target to 38c from 60c, based on guidance
from management, and puts price target on stock of $14. CNC off 4% to
10.13. (GC)



9:50 (Dow Jones) Chemical stocks have had their share of hard times,
but maybe the group has hit bottom. Some are interpreting the 6% stock
gain that followed Rohm & Haas Co.'s (ROH) 4Q profit warning Tuesday as
a sign of better times ahead. Lehman Brothers' Timothy Gerdeman says
investors, hopeful of a soft landing for the economy, are looking beyond
near-term pressures. Keep in mind, though, that quite a few folks
thought the worst was over in tech when Intel (INTC) and some others
acted well after poor outlooks. (TG)
   9:45 (Dow Jones) Citing a "dramatic" slowdown in information
technology spending, among other things, Merrill Lynch analyst Thomas
Kraemer cut his ratings on International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)
and Hewlett-Packard Co. (HWP) to near-term neutral from accumulate.
Although the stocks aren't falling as hard as other techs Wednesday,
shares of IBM were still down 5.5% while   H-P's stock was off 4%.
(DLF)



9:43 (Dow Jones) The rout in stocks has helped Treasurys yield to
continue dropping. At 5.09%, the 10-year note is at its lowest yield
since April 1999. The DJIA is down about 1.9%, while the Nasdaq is down
5.6%. (SV)



9:39 (Dow Jones) Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo, is
cutting right to the chase. While others speculate whether the nation
will fall into a recession next year, he says we might, in fact, already
be there. "After all, the beginning of a recession is the end of a boom
when things feel pretty good," Sohn said. (KJT)



9:36 (Dow Jones) Goldman Sachs economists say cumulative easing will
be between 50 and 100 basis points and will be front loaded during first
half of 2001. (JC)



9:34 (Dow Jones) Nasdaq Composite drops below 2400 for first time
since June 15, 1999. (TG)



9:31 (Dow Jones) Nasdaq Composite down 4% at first trade. Off 105 at
2406. (TG)



9:30 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude futures are expected to open 50-75 cents
a barrel lower after API, DOE inventory reports showed a large build in
crude stocks last week. API's increase of 2.4 mln bbl and DOE's rise of
3.1 mln bbl bring US total inventories within a few mln bbl of levels a
year ago. Feb crude, down 74c to $27.22, has support at $27.07;
resistance is seen at $28.80. (MXF)



9:28 (Dow Jones) Seems to be a preponderance of early stock
indications Wednesday morning. JBL (21-24), VSH (16-18), GLW (58-61),
EMC (58-61), U (45-47), ADI (50-53), and FTU (25-27) among bigger names.
(TG)



9:23 (Dow Jones) Nymex natural gas seen opening 45-50 cents per MMBtu
higher to $9.55-$9.60, ahead of what is expected to be a bullish AGA
storage report, as market dealt with blistering cold forecasts. "The
sky's the limit," a trader says, "Ten-dollar gas is in the market's
sights." (JEE)



9:17 (Dow Jones) IPE Feb. Brent has shed 23 cents, broken through
psychological support at $24.50, and is trading at a new daily low on
the back of bearish DOE data, say brokers. DOEs show bigger crude build
than APIs (3.1M against 2.4M). Trading at $24.42. Next support $24.35.
(SMF)



9:13 (Dow Jones) George W. Bush will likely tap two people for cabinet
posts who have made shareholders happy over the past decade or so. In
picking Don Evans as his commerce secretary, Bush will be tapping a man
who grew the share price of his company, Tom Brown Inc. (TMBR), from
about $1.50 on a split-adjusted basis in 1985 to roughly $30 today.
Likewise, expected Treasury secretary Paul O'Neill has overseen a strong
rise in the share price of Alcoa (AA) during his 13-year tenure, but his
company has had a tougher 2000. Alcoa's shares were as high as $43.63
earlier this year, only to close at $33.50 yesterday. (RJH)



9:06 (Dow Jones) Sometime presidential hopeful and Forbes Editor in
Chief Steve Forbes was on TV last night adding his voice to the school
of - well, let's call them angry doves - who think Fed not only should
have cut rates but also that it shouldn't have raised rates at all in
2000. Why slow down economy and risk putting folks out of work, Forbes
asked? Meantime, our economy is definitely slowing now. Sidestepping
endless hawk/dove debate, a response to Forbes might be that if six rate
hikes didn't loosen drum-tight labor market, a few rate cuts may not
stop a recession. The lesson for stock investors: The business cycle
still matters. (GC)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwck04qux




 MARKET TALK: Tobacco Names Are Smokin' This Year 

1,208 words
20 December 2000
15:20
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:20 (Dow Jones) Litigation, shmitigation. Tobacco stocks a little
better in fast-falling market, but a longer view is really revealing.
Over the last week sector has gained over 5%, and the numbers get better
the further back you go in calendar. Best sector over one year? Yep,
it's tobacco, with four key stocks - Philip Morris (MO), RJ Reynolds
Tobacco (RJR), UST (UST) and Universal Corp. (UW) - up over 80% as a
group. (GC)



10:15 (Dow Jones) Mortgage rates need to drop another 40 BP to trigger
a full-blown refinancing wave comparable to the one occurred in 1998,
Salomon Smith Barney analysts say. However, the MBA refi index has not
gotten anywhere near 1998 levels and the major difference between 1998
and the current environment is that the current overhang of refinancable
coupons is much smaller, they say. (JS)



10:07 (Dow Jones) High-yield market is mixed early in quiet holiday
trade. Cellular sector is down about a half point, says trader, while
some better performers are in the gaming, oil & gas, and health care
sectors. (RTB)



10:02 (Dow Jones) Another warning from a company with a stock with
little room left to drop. eMachines (EEEE), which now trades at 41 cents
a share, says its 4Q loss will come it between 19 cents and 23 cents a
share, far below the 4-cent loss the Street was expecting. Revenue will
also be down until the third quarter of 2001. The company is one of the
IPO market's biggest disappointments this year. eMachines came public at
$9 a share on March 24. (RJH)



9:56 (Dow Jones) Conseco's (CNC) get-tough boss Gary C. Wendt is doing
a good job, most agree - but there are still caveats aplenty about the
insurer. After Tuesday's deal to sell a big stake in a riverboat casino
to help raise cash (and a call with investors), UBS Warburg says such
actions move CNC "out of the danger zone." But UBS left its "hold" on
the stock and lowered 2000 EPS target to 38c from 60c, based on guidance
from management, and puts price target on stock of $14. CNC off 4% to
10.13. (GC)



9:50 (Dow Jones) Chemical stocks have had their share of hard times,
but maybe the group has hit bottom. Some are interpreting the 6% stock
gain that followed Rohm & Haas Co.'s (ROH) 4Q profit warning Tuesday as
a sign of better times ahead. Lehman Brothers' Timothy Gerdeman says
investors, hopeful of a soft landing for the economy, are looking beyond
near-term pressures. Keep in mind, though, that quite a few folks
thought the worst was over in tech when Intel (INTC) and some others
acted well after poor outlooks. (TG)
   9:45 (Dow Jones) Citing a "dramatic" slowdown in information
technology spending, among other things, Merrill Lynch analyst Thomas
Kraemer cut his ratings on International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)
and Hewlett-Packard Co. (HWP) to near-term neutral from accumulate.
Although the stocks aren't falling as hard as other techs Wednesday,
shares of IBM were still down 5.5% while   H-P's stock was off 4%.
(DLF)



9:43 (Dow Jones) The rout in stocks has helped Treasurys yield to
continue dropping. At 5.09%, the 10-year note is at its lowest yield
since April 1999. The DJIA is down about 1.9%, while the Nasdaq is down
5.6%. (SV)



9:39 (Dow Jones) Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo, is
cutting right to the chase. While others speculate whether the nation
will fall into a recession next year, he says we might, in fact, already
be there. "After all, the beginning of a recession is the end of a boom
when things feel pretty good," Sohn said. (KJT)



9:36 (Dow Jones) Goldman Sachs economists say cumulative easing will
be between 50 and 100 basis points and will be front loaded during first
half of 2001. (JC)



9:34 (Dow Jones) Nasdaq Composite drops below 2400 for first time
since June 15, 1999. (TG)



9:31 (Dow Jones) Nasdaq Composite down 4% at first trade. Off 105 at
2406. (TG)



9:30 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude futures are expected to open 50-75 cents
a barrel lower after API, DOE inventory reports showed a large build in
crude stocks last week. API's increase of 2.4 mln bbl and DOE's rise of
3.1 mln bbl bring US total inventories within a few mln bbl of levels a
year ago. Feb crude, down 74c to $27.22, has support at $27.07;
resistance is seen at $28.80. (MXF)



9:28 (Dow Jones) Seems to be a preponderance of early stock
indications Wednesday morning. JBL (21-24), VSH (16-18), GLW (58-61),
EMC (58-61), U (45-47), ADI (50-53), and FTU (25-27) among bigger names.
(TG)



9:23 (Dow Jones) Nymex natural gas seen opening 45-50 cents per MMBtu
higher to $9.55-$9.60, ahead of what is expected to be a bullish AGA
storage report, as market dealt with blistering cold forecasts. "The
sky's the limit," a trader says, "Ten-dollar gas is in the market's
sights." (JEE)



9:17 (Dow Jones) IPE Feb. Brent has shed 23 cents, broken through
psychological support at $24.50, and is trading at a new daily low on
the back of bearish DOE data, say brokers. DOEs show bigger crude build
than APIs (3.1M against 2.4M). Trading at $24.42. Next support $24.35.
(SMF)



9:13 (Dow Jones) George W. Bush will likely tap two people for cabinet
posts who have made shareholders happy over the past decade or so. In
picking Don Evans as his commerce secretary, Bush will be tapping a man
who grew the share price of his company, Tom Brown Inc. (TMBR), from
about $1.50 on a split-adjusted basis in 1985 to roughly $30 today.
Likewise, expected Treasury secretary Paul O'Neill has overseen a strong
rise in the share price of Alcoa (AA) during his 13-year tenure, but his
company has had a tougher 2000. Alcoa's shares were as high as $43.63
earlier this year, only to close at $33.50 yesterday. (RJH)



9:06 (Dow Jones) Sometime presidential hopeful and Forbes Editor in
Chief Steve Forbes was on TV last night adding his voice to the school
of - well, let's call them angry doves - who think Fed not only should
have cut rates but also that it shouldn't have raised rates at all in
2000. Why slow down economy and risk putting folks out of work, Forbes
asked? Meantime, our economy is definitely slowing now. Sidestepping
endless hawk/dove debate, a response to Forbes might be that if six rate
hikes didn't loosen drum-tight labor market, a few rate cuts may not
stop a recession. The lesson for stock investors: The business cycle
still matters. (GC)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwck04qup




 MARKET TALK: Still Too Early For Big Refi Push 

1,133 words
20 December 2000
15:14
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:15 (Dow Jones) Mortgage rates need to drop another 40 BP to trigger
a full-blown refinancing wave comparable to the one occurred in 1998,
Salomon Smith Barney analysts say. However, the MBA refi index has not
gotten anywhere near 1998 levels and the major difference between 1998
and the current environment is that the current overhang of refinancable
coupons is much smaller, they say. (JS)



10:07 (Dow Jones) High-yield market is mixed early in quiet holiday
trade. Cellular sector is down about a half point, says trader, while
some better performers are in the gaming, oil & gas, and health care
sectors. (RTB)



10:02 (Dow Jones) Another warning from a company with a stock with
little room left to drop. eMachines (EEEE), which now trades at 41 cents
a share, says its 4Q loss will come it between 19 cents and 23 cents a
share, far below the 4-cent loss the Street was expecting. Revenue will
also be down until the third quarter of 2001. The company is one of the
IPO market's biggest disappointments this year. eMachines came public at
$9 a share on March 24. (RJH)



9:56 (Dow Jones) Conseco's (CNC) get-tough boss Gary C. Wendt is doing
a good job, most agree - but there are still caveats aplenty about the
insurer. After Tuesday's deal to sell a big stake in a riverboat casino
to help raise cash (and a call with investors), UBS Warburg says such
actions move CNC "out of the danger zone." But UBS left its "hold" on
the stock and lowered 2000 EPS target to 38c from 60c, based on guidance
from management, and puts price target on stock of $14. CNC off 4% to
10.13. (GC)



9:50 (Dow Jones) Chemical stocks have had their share of hard times,
but maybe the group has hit bottom. Some are interpreting the 6% stock
gain that followed Rohm & Haas Co.'s (ROH) 4Q profit warning Tuesday as
a sign of better times ahead. Lehman Brothers' Timothy Gerdeman says
investors, hopeful of a soft landing for the economy, are looking beyond
near-term pressures. Keep in mind, though, that quite a few folks
thought the worst was over in tech when Intel (INTC) and some others
acted well after poor outlooks. (TG)
   9:45 (Dow Jones) Citing a "dramatic" slowdown in information
technology spending, among other things, Merrill Lynch analyst Thomas
Kraemer cut his ratings on International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)
and Hewlett-Packard Co. (HWP) to near-term neutral from accumulate.
Although the stocks aren't falling as hard as other techs Wednesday,
shares of IBM were still down 5.5% while   H-P's stock was off 4%.
(DLF)



9:43 (Dow Jones) The rout in stocks has helped Treasurys yield to
continue dropping. At 5.09%, the 10-year note is at its lowest yield
since April 1999. The DJIA is down about 1.9%, while the Nasdaq is down
5.6%. (SV)



9:39 (Dow Jones) Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo, is
cutting right to the chase. While others speculate whether the nation
will fall into a recession next year, he says we might, in fact, already
be there. "After all, the beginning of a recession is the end of a boom
when things feel pretty good," Sohn said. (KJT)



9:36 (Dow Jones) Goldman Sachs economists say cumulative easing will
be between 50 and 100 basis points and will be front loaded during first
half of 2001. (JC)



9:34 (Dow Jones) Nasdaq Composite drops below 2400 for first time
since June 15, 1999. (TG)



9:31 (Dow Jones) Nasdaq Composite down 4% at first trade. Off 105 at
2406. (TG)



9:30 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude futures are expected to open 50-75 cents
a barrel lower after API, DOE inventory reports showed a large build in
crude stocks last week. API's increase of 2.4 mln bbl and DOE's rise of
3.1 mln bbl bring US total inventories within a few mln bbl of levels a
year ago. Feb crude, down 74c to $27.22, has support at $27.07;
resistance is seen at $28.80. (MXF)



9:28 (Dow Jones) Seems to be a preponderance of early stock
indications Wednesday morning. JBL (21-24), VSH (16-18), GLW (58-61),
EMC (58-61), U (45-47), ADI (50-53), and FTU (25-27) among bigger names.
(TG)



9:23 (Dow Jones) Nymex natural gas seen opening 45-50 cents per MMBtu
higher to $9.55-$9.60, ahead of what is expected to be a bullish AGA
storage report, as market dealt with blistering cold forecasts. "The
sky's the limit," a trader says, "Ten-dollar gas is in the market's
sights." (JEE)



9:17 (Dow Jones) IPE Feb. Brent has shed 23 cents, broken through
psychological support at $24.50, and is trading at a new daily low on
the back of bearish DOE data, say brokers. DOEs show bigger crude build
than APIs (3.1M against 2.4M). Trading at $24.42. Next support $24.35.
(SMF)



9:13 (Dow Jones) George W. Bush will likely tap two people for cabinet
posts who have made shareholders happy over the past decade or so. In
picking Don Evans as his commerce secretary, Bush will be tapping a man
who grew the share price of his company, Tom Brown Inc. (TMBR), from
about $1.50 on a split-adjusted basis in 1985 to roughly $30 today.
Likewise, expected Treasury secretary Paul O'Neill has overseen a strong
rise in the share price of Alcoa (AA) during his 13-year tenure, but his
company has had a tougher 2000. Alcoa's shares were as high as $43.63
earlier this year, only to close at $33.50 yesterday. (RJH)



9:06 (Dow Jones) Sometime presidential hopeful and Forbes Editor in
Chief Steve Forbes was on TV last night adding his voice to the school
of - well, let's call them angry doves - who think Fed not only should
have cut rates but also that it shouldn't have raised rates at all in
2000. Why slow down economy and risk putting folks out of work, Forbes
asked? Meantime, our economy is definitely slowing now. Sidestepping
endless hawk/dove debate, a response to Forbes might be that if six rate
hikes didn't loosen drum-tight labor market, a few rate cuts may not
stop a recession. The lesson for stock investors: The business cycle
still matters. (GC)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwck04qu8




 MARKET TALK: Cellular Junk Takes Early Hit 

1,064 words
20 December 2000
15:06
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:07 (Dow Jones) High-yield market is mixed early in quiet holiday
trade. Cellular sector is down about a half point, says trader, while
some better performers are in the gaming, oil & gas, and health care
sectors. (RTB)



10:02 (Dow Jones) Another warning from a company with a stock with
little room left to drop. eMachines (EEEE), which now trades at 41 cents
a share, says its 4Q loss will come it between 19 cents and 23 cents a
share, far below the 4-cent loss the Street was expecting. Revenue will
also be down until the third quarter of 2001. The company is one of the
IPO market's biggest disappointments this year. eMachines came public at
$9 a share on March 24. (RJH)



9:56 (Dow Jones) Conseco's (CNC) get-tough boss Gary C. Wendt is doing
a good job, most agree - but there are still caveats aplenty about the
insurer. After Tuesday's deal to sell a big stake in a riverboat casino
to help raise cash (and a call with investors), UBS Warburg says such
actions move CNC "out of the danger zone." But UBS left its "hold" on
the stock and lowered 2000 EPS target to 38c from 60c, based on guidance
from management, and puts price target on stock of $14. CNC off 4% to
10.13. (GC)



9:50 (Dow Jones) Chemical stocks have had their share of hard times,
but maybe the group has hit bottom. Some are interpreting the 6% stock
gain that followed Rohm & Haas Co.'s (ROH) 4Q profit warning Tuesday as
a sign of better times ahead. Lehman Brothers' Timothy Gerdeman says
investors, hopeful of a soft landing for the economy, are looking beyond
near-term pressures. Keep in mind, though, that quite a few folks
thought the worst was over in tech when Intel (INTC) and some others
acted well after poor outlooks. (TG)
   9:45 (Dow Jones) Citing a "dramatic" slowdown in information
technology spending, among other things, Merrill Lynch analyst Thomas
Kraemer cut his ratings on International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)
and Hewlett-Packard Co. (HWP) to near-term neutral from accumulate.
Although the stocks aren't falling as hard as other techs Wednesday,
shares of IBM were still down 5.5% while   H-P's stock was off 4%.
(DLF)



9:43 (Dow Jones) The rout in stocks has helped Treasurys yield to
continue dropping. At 5.09%, the 10-year note is at its lowest yield
since April 1999. The DJIA is down about 1.9%, while the Nasdaq is down
5.6%. (SV)



9:39 (Dow Jones) Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo, is
cutting right to the chase. While others speculate whether the nation
will fall into a recession next year, he says we might, in fact, already
be there. "After all, the beginning of a recession is the end of a boom
when things feel pretty good," Sohn said. (KJT)



9:36 (Dow Jones) Goldman Sachs economists say cumulative easing will
be between 50 and 100 basis points and will be front loaded during first
half of 2001. (JC)



9:34 (Dow Jones) Nasdaq Composite drops below 2400 for first time
since June 15, 1999. (TG)



9:31 (Dow Jones) Nasdaq Composite down 4% at first trade. Off 105 at
2406. (TG)



9:30 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude futures are expected to open 50-75 cents
a barrel lower after API, DOE inventory reports showed a large build in
crude stocks last week. API's increase of 2.4 mln bbl and DOE's rise of
3.1 mln bbl bring US total inventories within a few mln bbl of levels a
year ago. Feb crude, down 74c to $27.22, has support at $27.07;
resistance is seen at $28.80. (MXF)



9:28 (Dow Jones) Seems to be a preponderance of early stock
indications Wednesday morning. JBL (21-24), VSH (16-18), GLW (58-61),
EMC (58-61), U (45-47), ADI (50-53), and FTU (25-27) among bigger names.
(TG)



9:23 (Dow Jones) Nymex natural gas seen opening 45-50 cents per MMBtu
higher to $9.55-$9.60, ahead of what is expected to be a bullish AGA
storage report, as market dealt with blistering cold forecasts. "The
sky's the limit," a trader says, "Ten-dollar gas is in the market's
sights." (JEE)



9:17 (Dow Jones) IPE Feb. Brent has shed 23 cents, broken through
psychological support at $24.50, and is trading at a new daily low on
the back of bearish DOE data, say brokers. DOEs show bigger crude build
than APIs (3.1M against 2.4M). Trading at $24.42. Next support $24.35.
(SMF)



9:13 (Dow Jones) George W. Bush will likely tap two people for cabinet
posts who have made shareholders happy over the past decade or so. In
picking Don Evans as his commerce secretary, Bush will be tapping a man
who grew the share price of his company, Tom Brown Inc. (TMBR), from
about $1.50 on a split-adjusted basis in 1985 to roughly $30 today.
Likewise, expected Treasury secretary Paul O'Neill has overseen a strong
rise in the share price of Alcoa (AA) during his 13-year tenure, but his
company has had a tougher 2000. Alcoa's shares were as high as $43.63
earlier this year, only to close at $33.50 yesterday. (RJH)



9:06 (Dow Jones) Sometime presidential hopeful and Forbes Editor in
Chief Steve Forbes was on TV last night adding his voice to the school
of - well, let's call them angry doves - who think Fed not only should
have cut rates but also that it shouldn't have raised rates at all in
2000. Why slow down economy and risk putting folks out of work, Forbes
asked? Meantime, our economy is definitely slowing now. Sidestepping
endless hawk/dove debate, a response to Forbes might be that if six rate
hikes didn't loosen drum-tight labor market, a few rate cuts may not
stop a recession. The lesson for stock investors: The business cycle
still matters. (GC)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwck04qtm




 MARKET TALK: Worst Over At Conseco, But Still Concerns 

1,684 words
20 December 2000
14:56
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



9:56 (Dow Jones) Conseco's (CNC) get-tough boss Gary C. Wendt is doing
a good job, most agree - but there are still caveats aplenty about the
insurer. After Tuesday's deal to sell a big stake in a riverboat casino
to help raise cash (and a call with investors), UBS Warburg says such
actions move CNC "out of the danger zone." But UBS left its "hold" on
the stock and lowered 2000 EPS target to 38c from 60c, based on guidance
from management, and puts price target on stock of $14. CNC off 4% to
10.13. (GC)



9:50 (Dow Jones) Chemical stocks have had their share of hard times,
but maybe the group has hit bottom. Some are interpreting the 6% stock
gain that followed Rohm & Haas Co.'s (ROH) 4Q profit warning Tuesday as
a sign of better times ahead. Lehman Brothers' Timothy Gerdeman says
investors, hopeful of a soft landing for the economy, are looking beyond
near-term pressures. Keep in mind, though, that quite a few folks
thought the worst was over in tech when Intel (INTC) and some others
acted well after poor outlooks. (TG)
   9:45 (Dow Jones) Citing a "dramatic" slowdown in information
technology spending, among other things, Merrill Lynch analyst Thomas
Kraemer cut his ratings on International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)
and Hewlett-Packard Co. (HWP) to near-term neutral from accumulate.
Although the stocks aren't falling as hard as other techs Wednesday,
shares of IBM were still down 5.5% while   H-P's stock was off 4%.
(DLF)



9:43 (Dow Jones) The rout in stocks has helped Treasurys yield to
continue dropping. At 5.09%, the 10-year note is at its lowest yield
since April 1999. The DJIA is down about 1.9%, while the Nasdaq is down
5.6%. (SV)



9:39 (Dow Jones) Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo, is
cutting right to the chase. While others speculate whether the nation
will fall into a recession next year, he says we might, in fact, already
be there. "After all, the beginning of a recession is the end of a boom
when things feel pretty good," Sohn said. (KJT)



9:36 (Dow Jones) Goldman Sachs economists say cumulative easing will
be between 50 and 100 basis points and will be front loaded during first
half of 2001. (JC)



9:34 (Dow Jones) Nasdaq Composite drops below 2400 for first time
since June 15, 1999. (TG)



9:31 (Dow Jones) Nasdaq Composite down 4% at first trade. Off 105 at
2406. (TG)



9:30 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude futures are expected to open 50-75 cents
a barrel lower after API, DOE inventory reports showed a large build in
crude stocks last week. API's increase of 2.4 mln bbl and DOE's rise of
3.1 mln bbl bring US total inventories within a few mln bbl of levels a
year ago. Feb crude, down 74c to $27.22, has support at $27.07;
resistance is seen at $28.80. (MXF)



9:28 (Dow Jones) Seems to be a preponderance of early stock
indications Wednesday morning. JBL (21-24), VSH (16-18), GLW (58-61),
EMC (58-61), U (45-47), ADI (50-53), and FTU (25-27) among bigger names.
(TG)



9:23 (Dow Jones) Nymex natural gas seen opening 45-50 cents per MMBtu
higher to $9.55-$9.60, ahead of what is expected to be a bullish AGA
storage report, as market dealt with blistering cold forecasts. "The
sky's the limit," a trader says, "Ten-dollar gas is in the market's
sights." (JEE)



9:17 (Dow Jones) IPE Feb. Brent has shed 23 cents, broken through
psychological support at $24.50, and is trading at a new daily low on
the back of bearish DOE data, say brokers. DOEs show bigger crude build
than APIs (3.1M against 2.4M). Trading at $24.42. Next support $24.35.
(SMF)



9:13 (Dow Jones) George W. Bush will likely tap two people for cabinet
posts who have made shareholders happy over the past decade or so. In
picking Don Evans as his commerce secretary, Bush will be tapping a man
who grew the share price of his company, Tom Brown Inc. (TMBR), from
about $1.50 on a split-adjusted basis in 1985 to roughly $30 today.
Likewise, expected Treasury secretary Paul O'Neill has overseen a strong
rise in the share price of Alcoa (AA) during his 13-year tenure, but his
company has had a tougher 2000. Alcoa's shares were as high as $43.63
earlier this year, only to close at $33.50 yesterday. (RJH)



9:06 (Dow Jones) Sometime presidential hopeful and Forbes Editor in
Chief Steve Forbes was on TV last night adding his voice to the school
of - well, let's call them angry doves - who think Fed not only should
have cut rates but also that it shouldn't have raised rates at all in
2000. Why slow down economy and risk putting folks out of work, Forbes
asked? Meantime, our economy is definitely slowing now. Sidestepping
endless hawk/dove debate, a response to Forbes might be that if six rate
hikes didn't loosen drum-tight labor market, a few rate cuts may not
stop a recession. The lesson for stock investors: The business cycle
still matters. (GC)



9:02 (Dow Jones) Why are shorter-term products like Eurodollar futures
rallying so strongly today? Trader says it's because PIMCO's Gross and
others have said Fed left room to ease intermeeting. (CMN)



8:59 (Dow Jones) For the seven or eight of you on Wall Street still
interested in IPOs this late in the year: the oft-delayed offering from
cell-research company Cellomics didn't price last night. It's now
looking more likely it won't come at all this year. (RJH)



8:57 (Dow Jones) Treasurys extend gains, with long bond up one
complete point. 30-year up 1 2/32 at 112 10/32, yield down 6 bp at
5.41%. Shorter dated maturities catching very strong bid, though volume
still modest, with 2-year yield down 9 bp at 5.25%, steepening the yield
curve to 16 bp gap from 2s to 30s. (JNP)



8:55 (Dow Jones) What to make of Chevron's Corp.'s (CHV) announcement
that it will post 4Q info, including industry-performance data at
www.chevron,  after the market close at 5 p.m. ET? Well, at end of 3Q,
observers expected oil prices to come down, and that didn't happen
immediately, so Chevron could conceivably talk about how that helped
bottom line. Another possibility is comment on some sort of deal to
dispose refining assets to Royal Dutch/Shell or other firms to appease
regulators eyeing Chevron/Texaco deal. (CCC, GC)



8:51 (Dow Jones) In cutting Cisco (CSCO) rating, Merrill cites
persistent concerns over service provider capital spending and
"emerging" fears over slowdown in corporate IT spending. Doesn't cut
revenue or earnings estimates this year or next, but says upside may be
limited. Cisco is trading below $40 in pre-market action. It was very
recently that we were talking about CSCO's need to hang above $50. (TG)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Treasurys price gains being driven by continuation of
good buying in Asia, Europe sessions, lot of selling of MBS to buy
Treasurys, agencies and swaps, in intermediate mainly 5-year and 10-year
maturities, says bond strategist in New York. Lower stocks futures in
U.S. after losses in European equity markets also giving Tsys a
flight-to-quality bid. Tsy yields in most maturites down 7 or 8 bp on
session with shorter-dated, intermediates catching good bid. (JNP)



8:41 (Dow Jones) Wall Street Journal says AT&T Corp. (T) board
expected to cut dividend by as much as 77%. Some sort of cut was
expected, and the move would bring payout policy closer to its telecom
peers. But another, more interesting question might be whether this move
opens the way for other firms, especially heavily indebted, to do same.
On the flip side, GE and Morgan Stanley (MWD) recently bumped up their
quarterly payouts. (GC)



8:38 (Dow Jones) Above-consensus housing starts figures briefly pull
March bonds from session high, but upward momentum still strong. Fed
Funds trading in fast market, with quotes in that product surging higher
and pricing in a higher chance of an ease after Jan. (CMN)



8:35 (Dow Jones) Merrill chief economist Bruce Steinberg sees
100-basis-point ease by end of next summer, and GDP growth under 3%
through the middle of next year before a second-half pickup. Now sees
S&P 500 operating EPS gain of just 5% in 2001, with some downside risk.
(TG)



8:32 (Dow Jones) Sharply lower stock futures, indicating low opening
for stocks, generating good bid for Treasurys, extending gains solidly
across the curve. 10-year up 19/32 at 104 26/32, yield down 8 bp at 5.11
(JNP)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Even after a night to digest the Fed's likely
intention to cut rates next month, equity players are not optimistic
about stocks, which are going to suffer through more weakness at the
open. Merrill's downgrade of IBM and H-P doesn't help. The Nasdaq
Composite, currently on pace for its worst yearly performance ever, will
drop below 2500 for the first time since Aug. 10 of 1999, and techs will
lead the way lower. Given the importance of every bit of data from now
until the late-January FOMC meeting, this morning's housing numbers will
get a good going-over, although rate cuts are seen as a near lock next
month. Stock futures off sharply, bonds rally. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwck04qt4




 MARKET TALK: Is Worst Over In Chemical Stocks? 

1,583 words
20 December 2000
14:50
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT
9:50 (Dow Jones) Chemical stocks have had their share of hard times,
but maybe the group has hit bottom. Some are interpreting the 6% stock
gain that followed Rohm & Haas Co.'s (ROH) 4Q profit warning Tuesday as
a sign of better times ahead. Lehman Brothers' Timothy Gerdeman says
investors, hopeful of a soft landing for the economy, are looking beyond
near-term pressures. Keep in mind, though, that quite a few folks
thought the worst was over in tech when Intel (INTC) and some others
acted well after poor outlooks. (TG)
   9:45 (Dow Jones) Citing a "dramatic" slowdown in information
technology spending, among other things, Merrill Lynch analyst Thomas
Kraemer cut his ratings on International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)
and Hewlett-Packard Co. (HWP) to near-term neutral from accumulate.
Although the stocks aren't falling as hard as other techs Wednesday,
shares of IBM were still down 5.5% while   H-P's stock was off 4%.
(DLF)



9:43 (Dow Jones) The rout in stocks has helped Treasurys yield to
continue dropping. At 5.09%, the 10-year note is at its lowest yield
since April 1999. The DJIA is down about 1.9%, while the Nasdaq is down
5.6%. (SV)



9:39 (Dow Jones) Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo, is
cutting right to the chase. While others speculate whether the nation
will fall into a recession next year, he says we might, in fact, already
be there. "After all, the beginning of a recession is the end of a boom
when things feel pretty good," Sohn said. (KJT)



9:36 (Dow Jones) Goldman Sachs economists say cumulative easing will
be between 50 and 100 basis points and will be front loaded during first
half of 2001. (JC)



9:34 (Dow Jones) Nasdaq Composite drops below 2400 for first time
since June 15, 1999. (TG)



9:31 (Dow Jones) Nasdaq Composite down 4% at first trade. Off 105 at
2406. (TG)



9:30 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude futures are expected to open 50-75 cents
a barrel lower after API, DOE inventory reports showed a large build in
crude stocks last week. API's increase of 2.4 mln bbl and DOE's rise of
3.1 mln bbl bring US total inventories within a few mln bbl of levels a
year ago. Feb crude, down 74c to $27.22, has support at $27.07;
resistance is seen at $28.80. (MXF)



9:28 (Dow Jones) Seems to be a preponderance of early stock
indications Wednesday morning. JBL (21-24), VSH (16-18), GLW (58-61),
EMC (58-61), U (45-47), ADI (50-53), and FTU (25-27) among bigger names.
(TG)



9:23 (Dow Jones) Nymex natural gas seen opening 45-50 cents per MMBtu
higher to $9.55-$9.60, ahead of what is expected to be a bullish AGA
storage report, as market dealt with blistering cold forecasts. "The
sky's the limit," a trader says, "Ten-dollar gas is in the market's
sights." (JEE)



9:17 (Dow Jones) IPE Feb. Brent has shed 23 cents, broken through
psychological support at $24.50, and is trading at a new daily low on
the back of bearish DOE data, say brokers. DOEs show bigger crude build
than APIs (3.1M against 2.4M). Trading at $24.42. Next support $24.35.
(SMF)



9:13 (Dow Jones) George W. Bush will likely tap two people for cabinet
posts who have made shareholders happy over the past decade or so. In
picking Don Evans as his commerce secretary, Bush will be tapping a man
who grew the share price of his company, Tom Brown Inc. (TMBR), from
about $1.50 on a split-adjusted basis in 1985 to roughly $30 today.
Likewise, expected Treasury secretary Paul O'Neill has overseen a strong
rise in the share price of Alcoa (AA) during his 13-year tenure, but his
company has had a tougher 2000. Alcoa's shares were as high as $43.63
earlier this year, only to close at $33.50 yesterday. (RJH)



9:06 (Dow Jones) Sometime presidential hopeful and Forbes Editor in
Chief Steve Forbes was on TV last night adding his voice to the school
of - well, let's call them angry doves - who think Fed not only should
have cut rates but also that it shouldn't have raised rates at all in
2000. Why slow down economy and risk putting folks out of work, Forbes
asked? Meantime, our economy is definitely slowing now. Sidestepping
endless hawk/dove debate, a response to Forbes might be that if six rate
hikes didn't loosen drum-tight labor market, a few rate cuts may not
stop a recession. The lesson for stock investors: The business cycle
still matters. (GC)



9:02 (Dow Jones) Why are shorter-term products like Eurodollar futures
rallying so strongly today? Trader says it's because PIMCO's Gross and
others have said Fed left room to ease intermeeting. (CMN)



8:59 (Dow Jones) For the seven or eight of you on Wall Street still
interested in IPOs this late in the year: the oft-delayed offering from
cell-research company Cellomics didn't price last night. It's now
looking more likely it won't come at all this year. (RJH)



8:57 (Dow Jones) Treasurys extend gains, with long bond up one
complete point. 30-year up 1 2/32 at 112 10/32, yield down 6 bp at
5.41%. Shorter dated maturities catching very strong bid, though volume
still modest, with 2-year yield down 9 bp at 5.25%, steepening the yield
curve to 16 bp gap from 2s to 30s. (JNP)



8:55 (Dow Jones) What to make of Chevron's Corp.'s (CHV) announcement
that it will post 4Q info, including industry-performance data at
www.chevron,  after the market close at 5 p.m. ET? Well, at end of 3Q,
observers expected oil prices to come down, and that didn't happen
immediately, so Chevron could conceivably talk about how that helped
bottom line. Another possibility is comment on some sort of deal to
dispose refining assets to Royal Dutch/Shell or other firms to appease
regulators eyeing Chevron/Texaco deal. (CCC, GC)



8:51 (Dow Jones) In cutting Cisco (CSCO) rating, Merrill cites
persistent concerns over service provider capital spending and
"emerging" fears over slowdown in corporate IT spending. Doesn't cut
revenue or earnings estimates this year or next, but says upside may be
limited. Cisco is trading below $40 in pre-market action. It was very
recently that we were talking about CSCO's need to hang above $50. (TG)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Treasurys price gains being driven by continuation of
good buying in Asia, Europe sessions, lot of selling of MBS to buy
Treasurys, agencies and swaps, in intermediate mainly 5-year and 10-year
maturities, says bond strategist in New York. Lower stocks futures in
U.S. after losses in European equity markets also giving Tsys a
flight-to-quality bid. Tsy yields in most maturites down 7 or 8 bp on
session with shorter-dated, intermediates catching good bid. (JNP)



8:41 (Dow Jones) Wall Street Journal says AT&T Corp. (T) board
expected to cut dividend by as much as 77%. Some sort of cut was
expected, and the move would bring payout policy closer to its telecom
peers. But another, more interesting question might be whether this move
opens the way for other firms, especially heavily indebted, to do same.
On the flip side, GE and Morgan Stanley (MWD) recently bumped up their
quarterly payouts. (GC)



8:38 (Dow Jones) Above-consensus housing starts figures briefly pull
March bonds from session high, but upward momentum still strong. Fed
Funds trading in fast market, with quotes in that product surging higher
and pricing in a higher chance of an ease after Jan. (CMN)



8:35 (Dow Jones) Merrill chief economist Bruce Steinberg sees
100-basis-point ease by end of next summer, and GDP growth under 3%
through the middle of next year before a second-half pickup. Now sees
S&P 500 operating EPS gain of just 5% in 2001, with some downside risk.
(TG)



8:32 (Dow Jones) Sharply lower stock futures, indicating low opening
for stocks, generating good bid for Treasurys, extending gains solidly
across the curve. 10-year up 19/32 at 104 26/32, yield down 8 bp at 5.11
(JNP)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Even after a night to digest the Fed's likely
intention to cut rates next month, equity players are not optimistic
about stocks, which are going to suffer through more weakness at the
open. Merrill's downgrade of IBM and H-P doesn't help. The Nasdaq
Composite, currently on pace for its worst yearly performance ever, will
drop below 2500 for the first time since Aug. 10 of 1999, and techs will
lead the way lower. Given the importance of every bit of data from now
until the late-January FOMC meeting, this morning's housing numbers will
get a good going-over, although rate cuts are seen as a near lock next
month. Stock futures off sharply, bonds rally. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwck04qsw


 London Letter. 

1,076 words
20 December 2000
Business and Finance
BUSFIN
English
(c) 2000 Business & Finance Magazine.

 Page 49 

 Getting It Right in 2001 

 Investors will greet the New Year with unease after 2000 proved to be the year of living dangerously. From a flying start most of the world's major markets ended it back where they started or worse. The highest fliers of all, technology stocks, crashed out of the sky with appalling force. Many people saw the startling gains they made in the previous 12 months slashed if not reversed. Nasdaq in the US set the tone. Having soared 85% in 1999 and carried on to a new all time peak of 5,000 in March, the high-tech index nose-dived to 2,600 at end-November. A glimmer of Christmas spirit brought it back to 3,000 but tech investors finished a traumatic year in a pretty subdued mood. Even Bill Gates has had the chastening experience of finding medium-sized African countries worth more than he is. 

 London's TechMARK 100 index also took a hammering, halving from its 5,700 March peak. And though "old economy" stocks were cushioned to some extent (by having real profits and dividends), it was not much of a year overall. The FTSE index this week is down about 9%, and though small caps did well, the FT All Share fell 4%. Amid the tech carnage, telecoms got a particular caning. Eircom punters at least have the consolation that they are not alone. British Telecom, 1520p in March, is now about 680p. Though it makes IR #3bn profit, it was forced to pay up to 2.5% over US Treasury rates for its latest bond issue. 

 Telecoms provoked their own downfall in frenzied bidding for the UK's 3G mobile licences, shelling out an appalling IR #22bn. As investors realised that finance ministers all over Europe would rush to emulate Gordon Brown, the shares slumped. By yearend, bank regulators were warning about telecoms exposure. Atlantic Telecom, one of the smaller UK players, has a bond yielding 40% and others yield 80% putting them deep into "junk" territory. 

 New Year forecasts for the market are subdued. Merrill Lynch sees the FTSE 100 one year out at 6,500, only a fraction above its current level. 

 The big question is whether the US achieves a soft landing. Its slowdown from 5.6% to 2.7% in the third quarter is too abrupt to be wholly credible. But the "wealth effect" from stock markets is now negative, and some gloomsters even expect a US recession. The silver lining is that interest rates should come down. Merrill sees 0.5% off US and Euroland rates next year. But with UK headline inflation pushed by oil to 3.2%, the Bank of England will not hurry. 

 Falling rate hopes persuade fund manager Legal & General to predict Footsie at 7,000, and broker Charterhouse sees 7,250, but these are the optimists. So much for the general outlook. Now it is time for your correspondent to eat humble pie. This time last year, I wrote that parts of the market were "overheated" and "some people are going to get burned". But the column's share portfolio included a high tech and a telecom stock. Both soared early on, and offered a good profit - if you got out in time. But by now, they look ghastly. 

 Itnet, the IT problem solver, was the dog of the portfolio. Tipped at 646p, it reached 1150p at the height of tech fever. One profit warning later, it has slumped to 135p, a 79pc crash. 

 Kingston, the telecoms hopeful bred by Hull City Council, more than doubled from the tip price of 747p to IR #16 at one time. It did nothing much wrong, but the shares have crashed to 278p. 

 After these horrors, it is a relief that builder Crest Nicholson, tipped at 154p, inched up to 158p. Perpetual, tipped as a bid target at 3810p, got its bid, from Anglo-US giant Amvescap, but though it touched IR #43 is now back below the tip price. Edinburgh UK Tracker, tipped at 284p, followed the market to end at 279p. 

 There were chances to take a profit, but the portfolio ended down nearly 30%. I apologise. After 1998, when the chosen stocks rose 46%, this is poor stuff. Choices for 2001 will be safety first. Though the tech sectors must hit bottom at some stage, brokers warn that they could fall another 20% to 30% first. Many values still look stretched; accounting software seller Sage, after a huge fall, is on 58 times earnings. Sema is on 24, but has acquisition troubles. 

 Look further, to BG GROUP, the exploration arm of the old British Gas. It has an attractive clutch of oil and gas fields ranging from the North Sea to Egypt, Trinidad and Kazakhstan. 

 Gas prices tend to follow oil with a time lag of up to a year. The UK spot price is 22p a therm, against 14p a year ago (Household bills could rise 15% to 20% early next year). 

 BG's assets make it an attractive target. At IR #9bn it is a mere mouthful for global oil giants. Hopes of a bid from Shell drove the shares to 320p in autumn but they have subsided to 258p. 

 Housebuilders still look cheap. This year nine received bids, mostly from management. Alfred McAlpine has just turned down an offer at 235p. At 222p, it sells at under six times likely earnings and yields over 4pc. Management said 235p significantly undervalued the group, and has apparently suggested a IR #3 takeout price. Great Portland Estates at 277 1/2p sells, like many property groups, at 32% below its asset value of 406p. Yet some London West End rents have touched IR #100 a square foot. Bidders stalk the sector. 

 For a little more risk, broker Redmayne Bentley likes engineer Senior. A new management aims to make it global leader in aerospace and automotive flexonics. Five directors have bought shares. At 55 1/2p it sells at just six-times forecast earnings with an 8pc yield - but the sector is bruised and bloody. 

 Merrill Lynch's UK tips are BAT (tobacco), BPB (plasterboard) and Vodafone. Dresdner Kleinwort's midcap choices are Anite, Smith & Nephew, Chrysalis, Amey, TeleCity, NSB Retail, scipher, Skyepharma, J D Wetherspoon, and St.James' Place. Limit your downside by setting a stop loss order at 15% below current prices. Good luck for 2001. 

Document busfin0020010805dwck001eb




 US STOCKS DROP DESPITE FED BIAS SHIFT - WHISPERS SAID 'CUT'. 

433 words
19 December 2000
21:17
Market News International
MARNEW
English
(c) 2000. Market News International, Inc.

 NEW YORK (MktNews) - U.S. share prices fell sharply Tuesday despite an aggressive signal by the Federal Reserve that lower interest rates are in the offing. 

 The Nasdaq Composite, slightly higher before the 2:15 p.m. ET announcement from the Fed, ended down 113.38, or 4.3 percent, at 2511.14. The level marks a new year low (2597 on Nov. 30 was the prior low). Volumes were extremely heavy. The Dow Industrials fell 61.05 to 10584.37, while the S&P 500 also hit a year low. 

 Like a routine earnings announcement, whispers circulated in the market that the Fed would actually cut interest rates at its policy meeting, perhaps as much as 50 basis points. 

 "We wanted a rate cut," said Michael Lyons, senior dealer at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. "There's no sense of urgency to buy stocks. People want to see when profit growth bottoms first." 

 Also hurting the market was "selling on the news," as major averages other than the Nasdaq had appreciated mildly in anticipation of an accommodative Fed. 

 Hugh Johnson, chief strategist at First Albany, sees a continued slowdown for profit growth, settling under the 10 percent area for the near term, and expects the market to remain on the defensive. "Prices will likely erode as opposed to decline. The market requires a rate cut before it can rally," he said. 

 Analyst expectations had centered on a one notch shift in bias, to neutral from restrictive. The Fed instead moved directly to an easing bias and cited a slowdown in consumer confidence as a key factor. It also said energy costs were dragging on growth, as opposed to posing an inflationary threat as they had warned as recently as their October statement. 

 Yet the market wanted more, especially as it remains exposed to profit warnings during the first-quarter pre-announcement period. "Bombs, like a warning from another top technology company, are still a concern. The market doesn't seem to have any gusto, there's no real urgency," said Lyons. 

 SBC Communications fell 6 5/8 to 46 11/16 [SBC] after warning that slow consumer demand will hurt results. 

 Goodyear Tire, down 0.12 at 18.87 [GT], also offered further evidence of the slowdown, saying tire shipments will decline and offering early retirement to part of its white collar staff. 

 Variety retailer Dollar Tree Stores, down 16 1/8 at 20 [DLTR], said holiday sales have been disappointing. 

 ***MARKET NEWS INTERNATIONAL NEW YORK NEWSROOM 212 509 9270*** 

 [TOPICS: MNUEQ$]. 

Document marnew0020010814dwcj012c0


 Chesapeake, Va.-Based Discount Retailer Issues  Profit Warning 

341 words
19 December 2000
Norfolk, Virginia
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 CHESAPEAKE, Va.--Sluggish holiday sales have prompted Dollar Tree Stores Inc. to warn that its fourth-quarter 2000 earnings will be well below analysts' expectations. 

 Analysts had predicted earnings of about 70 cents to 71 cents per share during what is traditionally the Chesapeake-based company's busiest time of year. 

 Instead, president and CEO Macon Brock announced Monday that stockholders can expect diluted per-share earnings of approximately 59 cents to 62 cents. 

 "Similar to what the entire retailing industry is experiencing, we have seen less customer traffic in our stores during this all-important holiday season," Brock said in a statement. 

 Brock also said that delays in opening new stores and the underperforming recently acquired Dollar Express chain in Philadelphia have all taken their toll. 

 Monday's announcement was made after the market closed. In trading Monday, before the earnings warning, Dollar Tree shares were up more than 11 percent, jumping $3.69 to close at $36.38. 

 In the fourth quarter of 1999, Dollar Tree earned 55 cents a share. A per-share earnings on the high side of Dollar Tree's revised estimates, 62 cents, would be an increase of 13 percent. 

 The earnings warning comes on the heels of a strong third-quarter finish, during which company-wide sales increased 28.9 percent to $1.1 billion and comparable-store sales increased 7.7 percent. 

 Fourth-quarter sales are estimated to ring up in the range of $605 to $615 million. 

 For the year, Dollar Tree expects diluted earnings per share, excluding merger-related costs and expenses, of $1.13 to $1.16, an increase of 23 percent to 26 percent over 1999. 

 "We continue to believe in our long-term growth plans," Brock said in the statement, "and we remain confident in our ability to improve our Dollar Express stores in 2001. We continue to plan for 25 percent growth in 2001 and beyond." 

 As of Nov.30, Dollar Tree operated 1,729 stores in 36 states. 

Document krtbn00020010808dwcj005wj


Newscast: Business news and stock report   

476 words
19 December 2000
CBS News: Morning News
CBSM
English
(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

JULIE CHEN, anchor:   

(Joined in progress) rates from today's Fed meeting, blue chips rallied. The Dow gained 210 points, closing at 10,645.   

(Graphic on screen)   

DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS   

10,645.42 up 210.46   

VOLUME: 1,189,920,000   

CBS.MARKETWATCH.COM   

CHEN: For the NASDAQ, lost 28 ending at 2,624.   

(Graphic on screen)   

NASDAQ   

2,624.52 down 28.75   

CBS.MARKETWATCH.COM   

CHEN: The Nikkei was down about 2 1/2 percent overnight.   

(Graphic on screen)   

TOKYO NIKKEI AVERAGE   

14,132.37 down 351.53   

CHANGE: down 2.43%   

CBS.MARKETWATCH.COM   

CHEN: On the CBS MarketWatch, the Fed and interest rates. Alexis Christoforous has more on that.   

ALEXIS CHRISTOFOROUS reporting:   

The blue chips powered ahead as investors bet the Federal Reserve may move to cut interest rates at today's meeting to jump-start the slowing economy and prevent a recession. Now that economic slowdown is forcing some companies to hand out pink slips for the holidays.  Aetna plans to slash about 5,000 jobs. The Connecticut-based health insurer says that move will help it focus on its health-care business.   

(Graphic on screen)   

JOB CUTS   

AETNA (AET) GILLETTE (G)   

up up 3.81 1.00 to to 36.81 34.81   

CHRISTOFOROUS: Gillette is shaving 2,700 jobs and closing eight factories to cut costs. And Prudential Insurance says it will eliminate 160 investment banker jobs in New York as Prudential gears up to go public, as did its rivals John Hancock and  MetLife.

Well,  Time Warner and merger partner America Online were punished after  Time Warner said profits will disappoint because of a slowdown in advertising and movie sales.   

(Graphic on screen)   

PROFIT WARNING

TIME AMERICA WARNER (TWX) ONLINE (AOL)   

down down 9.47 6.72 to to 63.25 42.24   

CHRISTOFOROUS: Here at the NASDAQ, shares of  Microsoft fell to a new 52-week low on continued concern about a slowdown in the PC industry. Shares of  Sun Microsystems off more than 6 percent, and analysts said sales of Sun's server computers are slowing. And shares of  eToys plummeted nearly 73 percent. The stock is down 99 percent so far this year. The company says that holiday sales will disappoint. It's also looking at putting itself on the auction block.  Amazon.com fell in sympathy with  eToys, down more than 13 percent to a two-year low. Amazon, too, is afraid the Grinch may just steal Christmas. At the NASDAQ MarketSite, I'm Alexis Christoforous, CBS MarketWatch.   

CHEN: For more on the markets, click on cbs.marketwatch.com.   

Straight ahead on the MORNING NEWS, your Tuesday morning forecast. And in sports, Marshall Faulk has another big game for the Rams, but Warrick Dunn helps the Bucs extract revenge for last January's NFC title game loss.   

(Announcements)   

Document CBSM000020070818dwcj003dw




 News Highlights:Conseco Net Before Item Of $1.18-$1.38/Shr 

674 words
19 December 2000
19:02
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


                       Top Of The Hour
Conseco Sees 2001 Net Before Goodwill $1.18-$1.38/Shr Above View >CNC
Calif. ISO Calls Stage 2 Alert; 500-KiloVolt Power Line Down> R/CA
Diageo To Pay $5B, Pernod $3.15B For Seagram Business >V
Avado Brands 8-Week Same-Store Sales Fell 1.9% >AVDO
DJIA Up 119 At 10764; Nasdaq Up 62 At 2687 >N/NYS N/NDQ
                       Top Of The Day
Diageo To Buy Seagram's Drinks Business; Deal Valued At $8.15B>DEO
US Posts $33.18 Billion October Trade Gap; Consensus $33.0
Billion>N/EMI
DJ-CNBC Survey:US Nov Housing Starts Seen +0.8% To 1.545M >N/ECO
Ciena Corp To Buy Cryas Systems For 27M Shares; Deal Valued At $2.6B
>CIEN
Goldman Sachs 4Q Oper Net $1.50 A Diluted Share; First Call $1.38 >GS
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter 4Q Net $1.06 A Share; First Call $1.29 >MWD
Cummins Inc Sees 4Q Loss At 35c-45c A Share; Sees 1Q In Line With
4Q>CUM
SBC Commun Sees '01 Per-Shr Growth 11%-14%;Plans On Slowing Econ
Issues>SBC



TIP: For news on Congress, search under G/CNG.
                       Special Reports
=Great Plains Down On Profit Taking In Wake Of FY2Q >GPSI
=Bank Of France Warns Banks On Overlending To Telecom Cos >R/FR
=Computer Hardware Stocks Up As Battered Sector Bounces >I/CPR
=Unclear Road To Profits Sends Zi Corp To 52-Wk Low >ZICA
=Northwest Air Up On Heavy Volume On CIBC Upgrade>NWAC
=Peru's Nascent Presidential Race Draws Many Candidates >R/PR
=Commodities Review:Crude Oil Futures Dn; Stock Data Eyed >I/OIL
=Canada Monthly Trade Surpluses To Ebb With Exports >R/CN
=Remington Oil & Gas Up On Favorable La. Court Verdict >REM
=Will Telus Go After Videotron Telecom, Or Take A Pass? >TU
=Hartford Fincl Svcs Down 7%; J.P. Morgan Cuts Rating >HIG
=StemCells Up After Promising Stem Cells Study >STEM
=Telecom Stocks Fall After SBC Commun Issues Warning >SBC
=GLOBAL YIELD: Merrill: Allocation Shifts May Boost Tsys >N/FIN
=Venezuela's Chavez Admits Mistakes In Wake Of Flood >R/VE
=Portugal PTM.Com To Slow Brazil Buys After Idealyze Pact >I/IAS
=Camelot Awarded UK Lottery License; Branson Mulls Action >CSG
=UNDER A BUCK: Calling All Heroes, Stan Lee Needs You! >SLEE
=Charting Money: Look For Higher Rates Next Week >N/FIN
=BondBiz: Reading The Markets' Reading Of Fed Tea Leaves >N/BON
=Brokers Rally On Goldman Sachs 4Q Upside EPS Surprise >GS
=Morgan Stanley Miss Driven By Portfolio Losses, Higher Costs >GS MWD
=Arbitrage Spreads On Pending Mergers & Acquisitions >AOL
=IPO Spotlight:Control Delivery Systems Has $86M Offering >N/INI
=IN THE PIPELINE: Ciena CTO Alexander A Light Crusader >CIEN
=Fortis To Make Broad Review Of Business, Details Sketchy >I/BAF
=PLX Tech Dn; Warns 4Q Rev To Fall Below 3Q's $18.4M >PLXT
=Cummins 4Q Warning Spells Trouble For Rival Truck Makers >CUM CAT
=Energis' Ision Buy Boosts Europe Plan, But Price Worries >ENGSY
=Diageo To Pay 61% Of Seagram Buy, Pernod 39% - Source >DEO
=DDI Corp Down After Rival Merix Lowers Rev Guidance >DDIC
=CAPITAL VIEWS: When Punch Bowl Pulled, DTs May Follow >G/EXE
=Dollar Tree Falls In Wake Of 4Q, Yr Warnings >DLTR
=SBC Commun Dn As Co. Cuts 2001 EPS Guidance >SBC
=Merx Down After Lowering Fiscal 2001 Guidance >MERX
=Volvo's Renault Deal Positive, But US Truck Mkt A Worry >VOLVY
=Clariant Management Shuffle Raises Eyebrows >I/CHM
=Spray May Be Forced To Sell 17M Lycos Europe Shares >S.SPY
=Saudis Seen Assuming $20-$22/Bbl Oil Price For Budget >R/SA
=Data Snap: US Trade Deficit Narrows Slightly >N/AER
=Israel's Netanyahu Decides Against Running For Premier >R/ISR
                       In Other Business ...
Schawk Inc. Completes Consolidation Of Chicago Ops >SGK
Tetra Tech In Commun Pact For Time Warner Headquarters >TTEK
Schwab Launches Real-Time Streaming News On Velocity >SCH



1902GMT


5030 55101

Document dji0000020010820dwcj003s1




 News Highlights:Conseco Net Before Item Of $1.18-$1.38/Shr 

674 words
19 December 2000
19:01
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


                       Top Of The Hour
Conseco Sees 2001 Net Before Goodwill $1.18-$1.38/Shr Above View >CNC
Calif. ISO Calls Stage 2 Alert; 500-KiloVolt Power Line Down> R/CA
Diageo To Pay $5B, Pernod $3.15B For Seagram Business >V
Avado Brands 8-Week Same-Store Sales Fell 1.9% >AVDO
DJIA Up 119 At 10764; Nasdaq Up 62 At 2687 >N/NYS N/NDQ
                       Top Of The Day
Diageo To Buy Seagram's Drinks Business; Deal Valued At $8.15B>DEO
US Posts $33.18 Billion October Trade Gap; Consensus $33.0
Billion>N/EMI
DJ-CNBC Survey:US Nov Housing Starts Seen +0.8% To 1.545M >N/ECO
Ciena Corp To Buy Cryas Systems For 27M Shares; Deal Valued At $2.6B
>CIEN
Goldman Sachs 4Q Oper Net $1.50 A Diluted Share; First Call $1.38 >GS
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter 4Q Net $1.06 A Share; First Call $1.29 >MWD
Cummins Inc Sees 4Q Loss At 35c-45c A Share; Sees 1Q In Line With
4Q>CUM
SBC Commun Sees '01 Per-Shr Growth 11%-14%;Plans On Slowing Econ
Issues>SBC



TIP: For news on Congress, search under G/CNG.
                       Special Reports
=Great Plains Down On Profit Taking In Wake Of FY2Q >GPSI
=Bank Of France Warns Banks On Overlending To Telecom Cos >R/FR
=Computer Hardware Stocks Up As Battered Sector Bounces >I/CPR
=Unclear Road To Profits Sends Zi Corp To 52-Wk Low >ZICA
=Northwest Air Up On Heavy Volume On CIBC Upgrade>NWAC
=Peru's Nascent Presidential Race Draws Many Candidates >R/PR
=Commodities Review:Crude Oil Futures Dn; Stock Data Eyed >I/OIL
=Canada Monthly Trade Surpluses To Ebb With Exports >R/CN
=Remington Oil & Gas Up On Favorable La. Court Verdict >REM
=Will Telus Go After Videotron Telecom, Or Take A Pass? >TU
=Hartford Fincl Svcs Down 7%; J.P. Morgan Cuts Rating >HIG
=StemCells Up After Promising Stem Cells Study >STEM
=Telecom Stocks Fall After SBC Commun Issues Warning >SBC
=GLOBAL YIELD: Merrill: Allocation Shifts May Boost Tsys >N/FIN
=Venezuela's Chavez Admits Mistakes In Wake Of Flood >R/VE
=Portugal PTM.Com To Slow Brazil Buys After Idealyze Pact >I/IAS
=Camelot Awarded UK Lottery License; Branson Mulls Action >CSG
=UNDER A BUCK: Calling All Heroes, Stan Lee Needs You! >SLEE
=Charting Money: Look For Higher Rates Next Week >N/FIN
=BondBiz: Reading The Markets' Reading Of Fed Tea Leaves >N/BON
=Brokers Rally On Goldman Sachs 4Q Upside EPS Surprise >GS
=Morgan Stanley Miss Driven By Portfolio Losses, Higher Costs >GS MWD
=Arbitrage Spreads On Pending Mergers & Acquisitions >AOL
=IPO Spotlight:Control Delivery Systems Has $86M Offering >N/INI
=IN THE PIPELINE: Ciena CTO Alexander A Light Crusader >CIEN
=Fortis To Make Broad Review Of Business, Details Sketchy >I/BAF
=PLX Tech Dn; Warns 4Q Rev To Fall Below 3Q's $18.4M >PLXT
=Cummins 4Q Warning Spells Trouble For Rival Truck Makers >CUM CAT
=Energis' Ision Buy Boosts Europe Plan, But Price Worries >ENGSY
=Diageo To Pay 61% Of Seagram Buy, Pernod 39% - Source >DEO
=DDI Corp Down After Rival Merix Lowers Rev Guidance >DDIC
=CAPITAL VIEWS: When Punch Bowl Pulled, DTs May Follow >G/EXE
=Dollar Tree Falls In Wake Of 4Q, Yr Warnings >DLTR
=SBC Commun Dn As Co. Cuts 2001 EPS Guidance >SBC
=Merx Down After Lowering Fiscal 2001 Guidance >MERX
=Volvo's Renault Deal Positive, But US Truck Mkt A Worry >VOLVY
=Clariant Management Shuffle Raises Eyebrows >I/CHM
=Spray May Be Forced To Sell 17M Lycos Europe Shares >S.SPY
=Saudis Seen Assuming $20-$22/Bbl Oil Price For Budget >R/SA
=Data Snap: US Trade Deficit Narrows Slightly >N/AER
=Israel's Netanyahu Decides Against Running For Premier >R/ISR
                       In Other Business ...
Schawk Inc. Completes Consolidation Of Chicago Ops >SGK
Tetra Tech In Commun Pact For Time Warner Headquarters >TTEK
Schwab Launches Real-Time Streaming News On Velocity >SCH



02:01 PM


Document dj00000020010805dwcj04ps1




 Bourses may turn bearish. 

 By Oommen A. Ninan. 
733 words
18 December 2000
The Hindu
THINDU
English
(c) 2000 Katsuri & Sons Ltd

 MUMBAI, DEC. 17. The stock markets may enter a bear phase again after the slow and steady rally over the last two months. Eventhough bearish sentiment looms large over Information technology stocks, the old economy stocks are doing the balancing act in the movement of indices."Correction has set in over the last two days which could continue for some more days," said Mr. Shyam Bhat, Fund Manager, Tata Mutual Fund. According to him, after the reaction in the Sensex is over, it may recover to around 4400 levels where one could witness a fresh bout of profit-booking. 

 There has been a rout on Nasdaq after the profit warning by Microsoft. "It is quite clear, in our opinion that the markets are in for a bear phase, as declining profits will continue for some time," said Mr. Imran Contractor, Research Head of Milan Mahendra Securities. Interest rate cuts and other measures to prop up the market might be temporary blips. Mr. Contractor added, "the same story of falling profitability in most sectors except technology, pharmaceuticals, aluminium and the like will be repeated in the third quarter results to be announced in January. The valuations of the technology and pharmaceutical sector are currently too high. We retain our cautious outlook on the markets." 

 The Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) 30-Share Sensitive Index (Sensex) moved down by 18.92 points at 4137.16 from 4156.08 at the close of the previous week. On the National Stock Exchange (NSE), the S&P CNX Nifty Index closed at 1312.60 which is down by 1.20 points compared to the previous Friday's close of 1313.80. On the last day of trading, the markets witnessed a huge selloff led by the technology stocks, including Infosys and Satyam. The huge outstanding position of Rs. 3,866 crores on Thursday triggered unwinding of these positions. 

 The outstanding position still remains high at Rs. 3,163 crores. A further downslide in the indices was prevented by Sensex heavy weights like ITC and Hindustan Lever. While funds were buying cement stocks like ACC, Larsen & Toubro, Madras Cement and India Cements, counters of Public Sector Enterprises (PSEs) like VSNL, MTNL, BHEL and HPCL witnessed profit booking after a sustained run up in the last few days. 

 The market has seen a good rally over the past couple of months when the Sensex rose from 3750 to 4300. Some of the optimism has come from falling international crude oil prices, final verdict on the U.S. Presidential elections, which could lead to stability in the U.S. markets, the likelihood of a cut in interest rate in the U.S. by Fed and the likely reduction in India's weightage in Morgan Stanley Capital International (MSCI) Index being spread out over a long period instead of an immediate reduction. 

 Another reason for the rally was that most domestic funds were sitting on a lot of cash as high as 15 to 20 per cent of net assets in some funds. This led to some large scale buying at the 4200 levels as probably these funds felt that they may miss the opportunity in case the market rally sustains. 

 Technology stocks may remain under pressure or witness selling after every sharp rally despite hopes of the high growth rate in profitability being sustained. This would be on account of the global sentiment towards technology stocks, which is likely to remain weak. "We have recently seen earnings warnings given by leading technology companies like Intel and even Microsoft, the company which has not had an earning warning for the past 10 years," said Mr. Bhat, adding, "However, one could see sustained interest in some old economy stocks such as cement stocks like ACC and Larsen & Toubro and some fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) stocks like ITC and Hindustan Lever." 

 There is a strong case for bullishness in old economy stocks. The three or four successive price increases in cement within a month could lead to an improvement of fortunes of cement companies especially the larger ones like ACC and L&T. Similarly successive price increases in different brands of cigarettes over the past three months could lead to a sharp jump in ITC's profitability which even before these price increases was expected to be a healthy 25 per cent. 

Document thindu0020010818dwci00xxy




 TECH STOCKS SUFFER IN HOLIDAY COUNTDOWN. 

531 words
18 December 2000
The Evening Standard
NS
English
(c) 2000

 BY RAY HEATH  Second-guessing the US Federal Reserve and trouncing technology stocks was the main business of Asian markets as investors and dealers started counting down to Christmas.Hopes that at tomorrow's meeting of the Fed chairman Alan Greenspan will indicate that he is in a mood for easing interest rates helped to limit the fallout from Friday's spiral on Wall Street and Nasdaq.There was no escape for technology counters as last week's profit warning from Microsoft continued to scare investors in Tokyo and Taiwan.Semiconductor stocks in Taiwan were some of the hardest hit in the region, dragging the Weighted index down more than 1.5%, while Japan's Nikkei 225 Average slipped 101.73 points to 14,450.56.A late-morning rally saw Hong Kong stocks slightly up, but top stock HSBC Holdings was sharply down - falling HK$2 to $109.00 following last week's finger wagging by the Bank of England over banks' exposure to telecommunications companies. 

  The Hang Seng index closed the session up 61.39 points at 15,036.92 due largely to the relative strength of property stocks, which investors were targeting as long-term winners from an easing of interest rates. Bank stocks declined in sympathy with HSBC. The British group's local subsidiary, Hang Seng Bank, lost 1%, while Dao Heng Bank, seen as a heavy lender to telecoms companies, was knocked back by more than 2%. Taiwan stocks came close to testing the 5000 level at which the government stabilisation fund could be triggered as technology stocks crumbled. Taiwan Semi-conductor led the retreat among chip-makers and in other sectors traditional year end credit-tightening left retail investors sidelined and the Weighted index dropped 78.9 points to 5055.2.A mixed reaction to moves by the South Korean government to shake up the banking sector finally left the Kospi up 6.61 points at 540.61.Six stricken Korean banks are to be recapitalised, but their shares will be cancelled, and planned mergers are expected to be opposed by militant bank workers.Singapore investors chasing special situations failed to prevent the Straits Times index falling 21.89 points to 1958.65. Technology leader Chartered Semiconductor beat the regional trend with a rise of more than 2%. Malaysian stocks were the hardest hit in South East Asia after Friday's falls on Wall Street, and weakness in blue-chips and technology plays left the Kuala Lumpur Composite down 12.36 points at 688.08. In Thailand retail investors chased telecoms and banking stocks but dumping of electronics shares left the SET index down 0.58 point at 272.59.Year-end lethargy in Indonesia left the Jakarta Composite index down 4.95 points at 418.73.After a see-saw session in festively light trading, Australian stocks ended the morning marginally ahead. The All Ordinaries index rose 6.2 points to 3184.3. The upward move was underpinned by News Corporation shares, which recovered some of last week's falls with a jump of more than 3%. Bank shares were also enjoying a modest recovery from recent weakness. 

Document ns00000020010815dwci005sk




 TOP STORIES FROM EUROPE, ASIA MONDAY, FROM THE US FRIDAY. 

1,454 words
18 December 2000
13:01
Market News International
MARNEW
English
(c) 2000. Market News International, Inc.

 * [THE BANK OF JAPAN SEES THE COUNTRY'S GRADUAL ECONOMIC RECOVERY] continuing but acknowledged in its monthly report that an export slowdown has cut into that growth. "Japan's economy continues to recover gradually, albeit at a somewhat slower pace due to decelerating export growth," the BOJ said in the report, which formed the basis for discussions at last week's monetary policy meeting. 

 * [JAPAN'S FISCAL YEAR 2001 BUDGET IS EXPECTED] to be around Y82 trillion, smaller than the 2000 budget and leading to a reduced need for bond issuance, local newspapers reported. Papers said the bond issuance is likely to be around Y30 trillion, the lowest level in three years. This year's issuance is Y32.6 trillion. 

 * [US PRESS: FED MAY ADOPT EASING BIAS OR CUT RATES] The US economy is deteriorating so rapidly the Federal Reserve may surprise markets and move to a policy tilted toward future rate cuts, or even actually cut rates, at its Tuesday meeting, the Wall Street Journal Europe reported. Citing Fed "insiders", the WSJE said there is "discussion" of doing more than simply moving to the neutral policy bias that is already expected by financial markets. Noting that Fed economic forecasts have been revised downward in recent months, the newspaper says there is "growing concern" within the central bank that the US economy is slowing down more rapidly than desired. 

 * [GERMAN KIEL THINK TANK CUTS 2001 GERMAN/EMU FCASTS] The German and euro-zone economies will grow at slower rates in 2001 than previously forecast due to a cooling in the world economy, the Kiel research institute said. German GDP will be 3.0% this year and slow to 2.4% in 2001, which is under the 2.7% previously forecast. Euro-zone growth is forecast to slow from 3.3% this year to 2.6% in 2001, below the 2.8% previously forecast. Kiel also revised up its expectations for German CPI and euro-zone harmonized CPI next year. German CPI will average 1.9% in 2001, the same as in 2000, but revised up from 1.7%. Euro-zone HICP will remain above the 2% ECB ceiling, averaging 2.3% this year and next. 

 * [GERMAN RWI THINK TANK CUTS GDP FORECASTS] The RWI economic research think-tank, traditionally the most optimistic of the top six German think tanks, said it had cut its forecast for 2001 and 2002 German GDP growth to 2.8% in response to cooling sparked by higher oil prices. It had forecast growth of 3.2% in 2001. RWI also revised up inflation to "almost" 2% in 2001 falling to 1.5% by end-2001. It also said the ECB is likely to hike rates only slightly in the forecast period, if at all. However, it noted that the risks of a US hard landing have risen. 

 * [ITALY STATE ACCOUNTANT SEES DEFICIT OVERSHOOT IN 2000] State accountant Andrea Monorchio acknowledged in an interview with La Repubblica newspaper at the weekend that the public deficit to GDP target of 1.3% will probably not be met, but said he expected an outturn no higher than 1.5%. He attributed the overshoot to tax cuts. 

 * [UK CBI: MANUFACTURING PAY AWARDS FALL] Manufacturing pay settlements fell in the three months to October, while service-sector pay awards were roughly stable, according to latest pay data from the Confederation of British Industry. Manufacturing pay deals averaged 2.7% in the period versus 3.0% in previous three months and 2.4% a year earlier. In the service sector they averaged 3.7% versus 3.8% and 2.4%. 

 * [REPORTS: DUTCH VNU TO BUY ACNIELSEN FOR $2.3 BLN] VNU NV, the Dutch owner of Nielsen Media Research Inc., agreed to buy ACNielsen Corp. for $2.3bn in cash. VNU will pay $36.75 for each share ACNielsen share. 

 * [REPORTS: DIAGEO/PERNOD-RICHARD TO BUY SEAGRAM WINE/BEVERAGES] Diageo PLC and its partner, Pernod-Richard SA, are set to buy Seagram Co.'s wine and beverage business for about $8.2bn. The newspaper said the parties are poised to sign a deal as early as today. 

 * [SINGAPORE'S NON-OIL DOMESTIC EXPORTS ROSE 8.1%] on year in November versus 16.3% in October, according to a release by the Trade Development Board. 

 [FROM THE US FRIDAY:] 

 * [FED EXPECTED TO SHIFT TO NEUTRAL] Most strategists foresee at minimum a shift in the Fed's rate bias to one of neutrality at the FOMC meeting Tuesday, ahead of a 25-bps ease in late January. Some analysts go further, saying the Fed will move to an easing stance next week at the Tuesday meeting or even cut rates then. 

 * [US STOCKS SHARPLY LOWER] U.S. share prices were sharply lower Friday afternoon in exceptionally heavy volume, pressured by an earnings warning from Microsoft and analyst downgrades of Hewlett-Packard and Sun Microsystem. Microsoft trimmed projections late Thursday citing a worldwide slowing in computer demand. Though Microsoft lowered revenue and profit estimates by a modest 5 percent, it was only the second warning in the company's history. Microsoft was down 6 5/16 at 49 3/16. [MSFT]. The Nasdaq composite fell 75.24, 2.76%, to 2,653.27. The Dow industrials plunged 240.03 points, 2.25%, to 10,434.96. 

 * [US PRODUCTION DOWN FOR SECOND MONTH; INFLATION MODERATE] Industrial production declined for the second month in a row Friday, the Fed reported, a key confirmation of the building downturn in the manufacturing sector. Announcements of cutbacks in the auto sector are now routine, with Ford saying Friday it will idle two plants next week. Consumer inflation remained tame in November, with the CPI up 0.2% and the core rate up 0.3% - ex-tobacco up 0.2% - confirming a host of other indications that slower growth is a greater risk to the economy than the risk of inflation. 

 * [US CONGRESS COMPLETES BUDGET] The House and Senate passed the $127 billion omnibus spending bill Friday night, completing the long overdue budget work for the year and finally setting spending levels of the current fiscal year that began Oct. 1. President Clinton will sign the bill shortly, lifting an austerity regime for many agencies and departments that had been making do without additional spending authority from the previous year's levels. 

 * [BUSH SAYS TAX CUT STILL AHEAD] President-elect George W. Bush said Friday he plans to stick to the broader tax cut plan he proposed during his campaign, especially amid concerns about an economic slowdown. Speaking to reporters in Austin, Texas, after meeting with moderate Democratic Senator John Breaux of Louisiana about the agenda for Congress and a possible Cabinet post, Bush said, "The plan that the people heard in America is the plan that I hope to get passed." That would be a $1.3 trillion 10-year tax cut. 

 * [US ANALYSTS DON'T SEE RECESSION YET] Analysts generally think any recession call is premature right now, but in a couple of months the data may tell a different tale - especially if the Federal Reserve holds back and doesn't ease. It may not be long before it's possible to see whether the current "growth recession" becomes a negative growth recession, Mitsubishi Bank's Mike Niemira said. "By February I think we'll have a sense which path we're on, because that's about the point history suggests you start to have a divergence in pattern." The risks of a classic recession "are greater than we've seen for years." 

 * [IMF SAYS ARGENTINA STILL ON TRACK] The International Monetary Fund said early Friday that Argentina remains on track to draw around $2 billion in emergency funding and that the country is in "full compliance" with loan terms expected to be approved by the IMF board next month. The IMF's press spokesman for Latin America, Francisco Baker, told Market News International the IMF staff assessment is that Argentina is "indeed in full compliance with the current program," despite reports to the contrary. 

 * [US IMPORT BUYING STRONG IN OCTOBER] October's trade deficit sharply widened thanks to another strong surge of consumer products entering West Coast ports but then quickly tailed off in November and December, cargo and port executives said. Any comparisons to last year were additionally hampered by surging import volumes as inventories built in advance of a looming Y2K disaster, they add. What happens early next year is pretty much up to holiday shoppers in the next week because any weakness in sales will likely tighten the noose on imports in the first quarter - although it's still too early to tell, they say. 

 [TOPICS: MNSTNB,MBU $ $$]. 

Document marnew0020010814dwci011ug




 TOP STORIES FROM ASIA MONDAY, FROM THE US AND EUROPE FRIDAY. 

1,381 words
18 December 2000
06:46
Market News International
MARNEW
English
(c) 2000. Market News International, Inc.

 * [DOLLAR-YEN REMAINS STUCK IN TIGHT RANGE] around Y112.60. The flows remain light with little in the way of fresh news to guide the market. Resistance is expected at Y112.70 and Y113.00 while the first level of support is at Y112.20. Euro-dollar is holding around $0.8985 after touching a high of $0.8989. It went slightly bid as the market looked to the European open but fell short of key resistance at $0.9000 where just above are large stop-loss orders. Reinforcing the bullish tone was active buying of euro-yen. Prior to the late move higher, it was holding around $0.8960. The day low was $0.8940. Euro-yen is at Y101.15 after short-covering from Japanese names pushed it past Y101.00 to Y101.20 from Y100.80. Dealers said that the overall bullish sentiment for the euro has spurred the need for Japanese investors to hedge short euro positions. Key resistance is not expected until Y102.00. 

 * [TREASURIES ARE SLIGHTLY HIGHER IN ASIA] as the market looks positively towards an easing stance being taken at Tuesday's FOMC meeting. Flows were mainly seen in the intermediate sector with Japanese banks seen buying five-year treasuries on the back of some swap-related transactions. 

 * [JAPAN'S FISCAL YEAR 2001 BUDGET IS EXPECTED] to be around Y82 trillion, smaller than the 2000 budget and leading to a reduced need for bond issuance, local newspapers reported. Papers said the bond issuance is likely to be around Y30 trillion, the lowest level in three years. This year's issuance is Y32.6 trillion. 

 * [THE BANK OF JAPAN SEES THE COUNTRY'S GRADUAL ECONOMIC RECOVERY] continuing but acknowledged in its monthly report that an export slowdown has cut into that growth. "Japan's economy continues to recover gradually, albeit at a somewhat slower pace due to decelerating export growth," the BOJ said in the report, which formed the basis for discussions at last week's monetary policy meeting. 

 * [SINGAPORE'S NON-OIL DOMESTIC EXPORTS ROSE 8.1%] on year in November versus 16.3% in October, according to a release by the Trade Development Board. 

 [FROM THE US AND EUROPE FRIDAY:] 

 * [FED EXPECTED TO SHIFT TO NEUTRAL] Most strategists foresee at minimum a shift in the Fed's rate bias to one of neutrality at the FOMC meeting Tuesday, ahead of a 25-bps ease in late January. Some analysts go further, saying the Fed will move to an easing stance next week at the Tuesday meeting or even cut rates then. 

 * [US STOCKS SHARPLY LOWER] U.S. share prices were sharply lower Friday afternoon in exceptionally heavy volume, pressured by an earnings warning from Microsoft and analyst downgrades of Hewlett-Packard and Sun Microsystem. Microsoft trimmed projections late Thursday citing a worldwide slowing in computer demand. Though Microsoft lowered revenue and profit estimates by a modest 5 percent, it was only the second warning in the company's history. Microsoft was down 6 5/16 at 49 3/16. [MSFT]. The Nasdaq composite fell 75.24, 2.76%, to 2,653.27. The Dow industrials plunged 240.03 points, 2.25%, to 10,434.96. 

 * [US PRODUCTION DOWN FOR SECOND MONTH; INFLATION MODERATE] Industrial production declined for the second month in a row Friday, the Fed reported, a key confirmation of the building downturn in the manufacturing sector. Announcements of cutbacks in the auto sector are now routine, with Ford saying Friday it will idle two plants next week. Consumer inflation remained tame in November, with the CPI up 0.2% and the core rate up 0.3% - ex-tobacco up 0.2% - confirming a host of other indications that slower growth is a greater risk to the economy than the risk of inflation. 

 * [US CONGRESS COMPLETES BUDGET] The House and Senate passed the $127 billion omnibus spending bill Friday night, completing the long overdue budget work for the year and finally setting spending levels of the current fiscal year that began Oct. 1. President Clinton will sign the bill shortly, lifting an austerity regime for many agencies and departments that had been making do without additional spending authority from the previous year's levels. 

 * [BUSH SAYS TAX CUT STILL AHEAD] President-elect George W. Bush said Friday he plans to stick to the broader tax cut plan he proposed during his campaign, especially amid concerns about an economic slowdown. Speaking to reporters in Austin, Texas, after meeting with moderate Democratic Senator John Breaux of Louisiana about the agenda for Congress and a possible Cabinet post, Bush said, "The plan that the people heard in America is the plan that I hope to get passed." That would be a $1.3 trillion 10-year tax cut. 

 * [US ANALYSTS DON'T SEE RECESSION YET] Analysts generally think any recession call is premature right now, but in a couple of months the data may tell a different tale - especially if the Federal Reserve holds back and doesn't ease. It may not be long before it's possible to see whether the current "growth recession" becomes a negative growth recession, Mitsubishi Bank's Mike Niemira said. "By February I think we'll have a sense which path we're on, because that's about the point history suggests you start to have a divergence in pattern." The risks of a classic recession "are greater than we've seen for years." 

 * [IMF SAYS ARGENTINA STILL ON TRACK] The International Monetary Fund said early Friday that Argentina remains on track to draw around $2 billion in emergency funding and that the country is in "full compliance" with loan terms expected to be approved by the IMF board next month. The IMF's press spokesman for Latin America, Francisco Baker, told Market News International the IMF staff assessment is that Argentina is "indeed in full compliance with the current program," despite reports to the contrary. 

 * [US IMPORT BUYING STRONG IN OCTOBER] October's trade deficit sharply widened thanks to another strong surge of consumer products entering West Coast ports but then quickly tailed off in November and December, cargo and port executives said. Any comparisons to last year were additionally hampered by surging import volumes as inventories built in advance of a looming Y2K disaster, they add. What happens early next year is pretty much up to holiday shoppers in the next week because any weakness in sales will likely tighten the noose on imports in the first quarter - although it's still too early to tell, they say. 

 * [GERMAN IFO SENTIMENT INDEX FALLS AGAIN] The Ifo research institute's west German business sentiment index fell for a six month in a row in November, to the lowest level since October 1999. The index fell to 97.0 from 97.2 in October. Future expectations declined but sentiment on current conditions rose. Head of Economic Research Willi Leibfritz said he expects the index to weaken more in the months ahead, indicating a further slowing in the economy. 

 * [GERMAN WHOLESALE PRICES FALL ON CHEAPER OIL] Wholesale prices in November fell unexpectedly for the first time this year largely due to cheaper oil products. They fell 0.2% on the month, while rising 6.4% on the year. 

 * [ITALY INDUSTRY OUTPUT FALLS AS EXPECTED] Unadjusted industrial output in October fell as expected by a seasonally and workday-adjusted 0.8% on the month, while rising 0.5% on the year. The monthly fall was bang in line with forecasts. 

 *    [WEAK SPAIN RETAIL SALES] Unadjusted retail sales in October rose 

 2.0% on the month but the annual rate was up only 2.6%, the statistical 

 agency reported. 

  *    [FRENCH TRADE BALANCE BACK IN THE RED] France registered a 

 seasonally adjusted trade deficit of E760 mln in October due to rising 

 oil costs and stagnating exports. The result was unexpected. 

 *    [STRONG JOB GROWTH IN FRANCE] A net 120,600 non-farm jobs were 

 created in the private sector in Q3, revised up 20,000 from a preliminary estimate, the Labor Ministry and national statistics agency reported. This represented a quarterly gain of 0.8% and an annual rise of 3.4%. Most of the gains came in services. 

 [TOPICS: MNSTNB,MBU $ $$]. 

Document marnew0020010814dwci011sv


Newscast: Business news and stock report   

420 words
18 December 2000
CBS News: Morning News
CBSM
English
(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

JULIE CHEN, anchor:   

Weak corporate profits and tomorrow's meeting of Federal Reserve policymakers are weighing heavily on the minds of investors this morning. Renay San Miguel has our CBS MarketWatch report.   

RENAY SAN MIGUEL reporting:   

It may be Monday, but Wall Street's attention this week will be focused on Tuesday's meeting of the Federal Reserve. And although no action is expected, investors are hoping that a move to a neutral bias would be an early Christmas gift. A neutral bias would mean the Fed would be less likely to raise interest rates in the near future.   

But until then, the markets begin the week dealing with the wreckage from last Friday. The Dow dropped 240 points.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Dow Jones Industrials   

down to 240.03 10,434.96   

SAN MIGUEL: The NASDAQ, meanwhile, was down 75 points for the day.   

(Graphic on screen)   

NASDAQ Composite   

down to 75.24 2,653.27   

SAN MIGUEL: What was the problem?  Microsoft. The world's biggest software company issued a profit warning, only its second in the last 25 years. In fact, the last time  Microsoft warned, George W. Bush's father was president.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Stock To Watch   

Microsoft (MSFT)   

SAN MIGUEL: The company blamed what is becoming the favorite excuse of tech companies these days: weak demand for personal computers. And, of course,  Microsoft's Windows software is only in 80 percent of the world's PCs.   

But there was also some bad news from what had been two of the best performing stocks of the '90s: Internet builder  Sun Microsystems and data storage company EMC   

(Graphic on screen)   

Tech Downgrade   

Sun Microsystems EMC (SUNW) (EMC)   

down down 1.25 6.50   

to to 30.44 68.13   

SAN MIGUEL: The brokerage firm  Bear Stearns downgraded both stocks, saying it expects the weakening economy to eventually catch up with these companies just like it has others.   

There is some other economic data we're expecting this week: housing starts, Gross Domestic Product and the latest figures on personal income and personal spending.   

And we get more of a glimpse into the health of the technology, financial and retail sectors. We are expecting earnings reports from the likes of  Lucent Technology,  Micron Technology,  Goldman Sachs,  Bear Stearns,  Morgan Stanley,  Circuit City and  Nike.

For more on the markets, just click on our Web site at cbs.marketwatch.com or AOL, keyword `MarketWatch.' I'm Renay San Miguel, CBS MarketWatch, New York.   

Document CBSM000020070818dwci003di




Investment
Asia hit by US tech stock fall-off

Tim Dodd JAKARTA   
504 words
18 December 2000
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
Late
5
English
Copyright 2000. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.   

More bad news in the US technology sector is adding to the downward pressure on South-East Asian stockmarkets, particularly in Singapore, Malaysia and the Philippines, which are major exporters of electronic products.

Last week's profit warning from Microsoft and continued weakness on the Nasdaq was quickly reflected in Asia, where Malaysia's KLSE index, weighed down by the tech gloom, dropped to a 14-month low on Friday.

Singapore was also affected with two of its technology heavyweights, Venture Manufacturing and Creative Technology, falling by 6 per cent and 4.3 per cent respectively.

In the Philippines, another big centre of electronics component manufacturing, the market remains directionless waiting for a clear indication of where President Joseph Estrada's impeachment trial is heading.

The tech stock worries, and the broader concern about a downturn in the US economy, are factors that make it only more certain that 2000 will be designated the year of unremitting gloom as far as the stockmarket is concerned.

It has been a sharp contrast to last year, when sharemarkets across the region picked up sharply on the first burst of optimism that economies would soon recover the ground lost in the 1997-98 crisis. But there was little to sustain the recovery most governments have not made the structural reforms investors are looking for and 2000 has been the year reality struck.

In Thailand, the SET index has lost 45 per cent this year. In Jakarta, the JSX has lost 39 per cent. In the Philippines, the composite index has lost 34 per cent.

Malaysia possibly provides some relief to the gloomy picture. Its KLSE index has lost only 16 per cent since the beginning of the year. But if the measure is taken since the Kuala Lumpur market peaked on February 18, it is down 31 per cent.

Even in Singapore, the most mature of South-East Asian markets, the year has also been disappointing. Due to the collateral damage from its neighbours, the Straits Times Index is down 25 per cent this year.

What is the outlook for next year? With the US almost certain to slow, the best Asia can hope for is that the US economy avoids a hard landing.

The increasingly bad news on US demand for technology inputs is worrying for the big technology exporters, Singapore, Malaysia and the Philippines.

But in the Philippines it will be a positive if the discredited President Estrada is dismissed.

In Thailand, the outlook is affected by the January 6 general election in which Prime Minister Chuan Leekpai is seeking a third term. He has a reasonable record of making the required financial reforms, amid difficult circumstances, and foreign investors would be happy if he won.

In Jakarta, there is little good news on the horizon. Last week the IMF again delayed a loan instalment to Indonesia because of its lack of progress on reform, giving investors yet another signal to stay away.

Document AFNR000020111227dwci00moq




You're just in time for the recession, George - Opinion. [CORRECTED 29/12/00]

By William Rees-Mogg. 
1,467 words
18 December 2000
The Times
T
12
English
© 2000 Times Newspapers Ltd. All rights reserved 

I have been spending the past three days in Miami, the home of the dimpled chad. I was pleased to hear from a local antiquary about the vote in Palm Beach the last time Florida was involved in a presidential election that was too close to call. There were then fewer than 50 voters in the whole of Dade County. In Palm Beach itself, there were only two registered voters, but three people were sent to count their votes. That would presumably have been in 1888.

This time, Dade County and Palm Beach have been at the centre of the storm.

The Americans have an admirable ability to focus on what is going to happen next, not on what has happened in the past. Within a few hours of Al Gore's concession speech, which was generally well received, the attention of the United States, including that of Florida itself, had shifted from the heated dispute about the recounts to the prospects for the new presidency. Of course, Democratic activists are very sore about the outcome, but ordinary voters have accepted it, whether they are Republicans, Independents or Democrats in party affiliation.

The US Supreme Court has achieved its objective, which was to reach finality. The majority decision was characteristic of Chief Justice Rehnquist's court, which is the moderate one. It rested on the principle of equality, which has historically been a strongly held liberal principle. No American now questions the Supreme Court's 1954 judgment in Brown v the Board of Education, which abolished segregation in schools. Chief Justice Warren summed up the doctrine: "In the field of public education, the doctrine of 'separate but equal' has no place because separate educational facilities are inherently unequal." That was the reason the Rehnquist court rejected different systems

of recounting in different Florida counties.

The US Supreme Court is also opposed to judges making laws, rather than interpreting them. This was also originally a liberal position, strongly championed by Justice Hugo Black, Franklin Roosevelt's first appointment to the Supreme Court.

Black was very critical of those judges who struck down the early New Deal legislation on free-trade principles. More recently, liberals have come around to supporting what is called "substantive due process" to defend the judicial activism of the 1973 abortion decision, Roe v Wade. No right to abortion is to be found in the US Constitution; the 1973 court extrapolated it.

The distinguished columnist of The New York Times, Anthony Lewis, quotes a despairing law professor as asking: "How can I convince my students now that the integrity of legal reasoning matters?" That may be the view of some liberal professors, but I do not think that it is a view which has taken hold in America or is even much discussed. Law professors who do not agree with the judgment should recognise that the majority decision in the US Supreme Court - that the Florida Supreme Court was trying to make new law on a basis of inequality - was consistent with its normal construction of the Constitution.

No one can tell how strong a President George W. Bush will prove to be. The evidence from Texas is that he believes in delegation, that he is not interested in ideology, and that he likes to work towards consensus. My own temperamental preference is for a more radical approach to political problems; I admired the radicalism of Margaret Thatcher and Ronald Reagan more than the conciliatory strategy of John Major and George Bush Sr. Nevertheless, there are immediate advantages in George W. Bush's approach.

The American people were evenly split; they did not vote for a sharp change of direction, either in a conservative or a liberal direction.

George W. Bush would not have a national mandate for a shift of policy away from centrism. His only appointments are all of moderates like himself. Dick Cheney, the Vice-President-elect, is an experienced and very capable administrator. Like most good managers, he is a pragmatist. Colin Powell is too cautious for some conservatives; as Secretary of State, he will be far less interventionist than Madelaine Albright, who could fairly be called a liberal imperialist.

Colin Powell's cautious approach to intervention is shared by Condoleezza Rice, who will be the President's adviser. The world is not going to get an American foreign policy which believes that the United States can solve every problem or right every wrong.

Both in foreign and domestic policy there will be more bipartisanship; this will strengthen the position of Congress and give more say to the Democrats, who are quite likely to win a majority in both Houses in the mid-term elections in two years' time. Whether or not one is drawn to this style of presidency, it fits the present mood of the United States. It probably fits the mood better than the liberal campaign of Vice-President Al Gore.

So far as the political balance is concerned, George W. Bush's Administration is likely to be a popular one, though the electorate may get bored with his apparent lack of dynamic purpose, as they did with his father. He may not prove an exciting President, but he may well be a cosy one.

The problem is the economy. As Dick Cheney has already said, there are signs that the United States may be moving towards a recession, and it could be a difficult recession to deal with. This is certainly the mood of the stock market. Last Friday, reacting to the election result, almost all the indices were down, on the day, on the week, on the month, on the year. Investors in technology and Internet stocks have lost huge amounts, 40, 50, sometimes up to 90 per cent of earlier values. Microsoft has issued a profit warning. The Clinton-Greenspan boom seems to be over.

This in itself would not be too worrying. Booms do not go on for ever. A mild recession, a lower stock market, could be corrected by a cut in interest rates and taxes, both of which now seem likely. It is the current account deficit which will make it much more difficult to deal with the recession, if one develops.

A single-column graph in Friday's Wall Street Journal tells the story. In the early 1990s, the US current account varied from a small positive balance to a deficit of $25 billion a quarter. Things were not quite so good in the first Clinton term, edging up to a deficit of about $30 billion. In the second Clinton term the deficit soared to $113 billion in the third quarter of the current year. In the past three years, it has come very close to doubling every 18 months.

The Wall Street Journal's heading is "Trade Gap will pose Challenge to Bush Team". That is like saying "Iceberg will pose Challenge to Captain of Titanic". Neither the present deficit nor the rate of deterioration can possibly be sustained.

This huge and accelerating inflow of foreign money financed the last three years of the Wall Street boom. Now that the boom is coming to an end, this flow of funds is likely to decline. Already there is a growing shortage of liquidity, particularly in new technology companies.

The measures which would normally be used to counteract the recession, which involve reflation

of domestic demand, would make the current account deficit worse. Viewed as a technical economic problem, this is the most difficult predicament for the United States since the inflation of the early Eighties.

Politically, there is the question of responsibility. Like Nigel Lawson in the late 1980s, but on a far greater scale, Alan Greenspan, the Chairman of the Federal Reserve, is likely to be accused of allowing the boom to get out of control, with very painful consequences. Will Bill Clinton share this blame? Will he

be regarded as the man who primed the bomb? Or will the blame fall

on George W. Bush, as the President in whose term the bomb went off?

The Republicans have been through this before. In 1928 Herbert Hoover became President, the third Republican in a row. In 1929 the stock market crashed. In 1930 the slump began. The Republicans did not get back into the White House until 1962. Very few people are now expecting a slump, but many are expecting a recession. Who gets the blame could well decide the fate of the George W. Bush presidency.

CORRECTION -

The Times has issued this correction:

In final par: The Republicans (Eisenhower), returned in 1952 (NOT 1962).

To the above story in the Times:

comment@thetimes.co.uk

(c) Times Newspapers Ltd, 2000. 

Document t000000020010818dwci0075x


 Business 
 Talking Stocks 

 Bill Tucker 
1,806 words
18 December 2000
18:00
CNNfn: Talking Stocks
TKST
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 BILL TUCKER, CNNfn ANCHOR, TALKING STOCKS: All right, welcome back. We`re talking today to Eugene Profit of Profit Funds.  He`s the man taking your questions and answers - answering the questions both with phone and e-mail. We`re going to get with the phones now.  David out in Oregon is on the line for you, Eugene.  Go ahead, David. 

 CALLER:  Good morning, gentlemen.  My question is, is about Xerox (URL: http://www.xerox.com/) stock - would you say it`s going to go up and what does the future hold for Xerox? Thank you. 

 EUGENE PROFIT, PRESIDENT, PROFIT FUNDS: David, I`d find another story. Xerox has quite a bit of trouble here, and it`s an example of an -of an old technology name that was great, doing it in its market cycle. The management will say that they have been at the forefront of technology, but their stock performance hasn`t shown that, and I think that there are better ideas out there - that I would be a seller here. 

 TUCKER:  Want to ask you about the company because there`s a lot of speculation about them, and it is a bad story if it`s a story you want to read.  But, you know, Xerox has been at the forefront of so many technological innovations, that when you think of it - when I think of the company, I not only think of, you know, the copiers, I think of the engineering services and I think of the innovations coming out of there. 

 PROFIT:  That`s right. 

 TUCKER:  A lot of speculation that the company either might go bankrupt or that they`ll just completely do the Chapter 11 thing.  There also a lot of speculation out there it might be taken over - or - they might raise some money by spinning off parts of them, among them being like the engineering services and then  sell them off to somebody else. 

 PROFIT:  Right. 

 TUCKER:  That - in any of those scenarios, in any of those cases, does this still make some kind of investment sense if you`re into the risk side of the business? 

 PROFIT:  Yeah, if you`re looking at straight price-to-book in a Xerox, and  looking at the assets and the technology patents, it`s probably a company you can buy.  But I don`t see the catalyst as a standalone company to make that a viable investment.  I don`t think the company is going bankrupt; I just think they`re going to piddle along, similar to an Eastman Kodak (URL: http://www.kodak.com/) , trying to figure out how to envelope the next wave of innovation.  They might get there, but I just think from a risk-reward standpoint, you`re better off going with a different name. 

 TUCKER:  That`s (INAUDIBLE) worse, just piddling along down at the bottom as a matter of fact.  As Shawn (ph) the producer points out, that the Nasdaq has gone positive, once again. 

 PROFIT:  Good news. 

 TUCKER:  Eugene, I think it`s thanks to your contributions and your insights into the market.  We`ll credit you with the turnaround in the Nasdaq. 

 PROFIT:  Oohh! 

 (LAUGHTER) 

 TUCKER:  We`ve got an e-mail here from a fellow down in Georgia. Bill Womack, William Womack, and he`s interested in what you think of Ericsson (URL: http://www.ericsson.com/) ? 

 PROFIT:  I like the telecom space.  I think I like Nokia (URL: http://www.nokia.com/) a little bit more  than Ericsson.  I think they have a more dominant position.  But I think telecom has performed so poorly the last nine months - 

 TUCKER:  Oh-ho, that`s an understatement. 

 PROFIT:  That it`s an excellent place to be investing right now, in Nokia.  As we get into the third generation of wireless, upgrades and phones, it`s going to cause demand in that sector, and it`s going to be continue a demand, and I think it`s a very attractive entry point, if you`re patient.  I like Ericsson.  I just like Nokia more, so I think I`d be a buyer there. 

 TUCKER:  All right, and nice to know that you think there might be  a turnaround coming in a wireless sector, which actually made me think of something.  I was out Christmas shopping and - I got a couple of kids. One of them is a young guy, and he wants lots of electronic things.  One of the electronic things he wants a PlayStation 2 which you can`t get because you have the chip shortages - right? 

 PROFIT:  Sure. 

 TUCKER:  But the thing that amused me was everywhere I went, when I would ask for something, they`d say, oh, you`re lucky, a shipment just came in, but there`s problems because there aren`t enough chips for them. 

 PROFIT:  Uhm-hm. 

 TUCKER:  Or there`s a chip shortage with that.  We`re not going to - and I walked out of these stores after yesterday thinking, how could the semiconductor sector even remotely be in the tank, if everywhere I go different products there are chip shortages on. 

 PROFIT:  Right. 

 TUCKER:  What`s going on with - how does - how does an investor square that kind of simple anecdotal sort of experience, with what`s been going  on with the semiconductor stocks? 

 PROFIT:  I think you buy the semiconductors.  I think that you take what your eyes are telling you, and you be patient, and you go into that sector. I think what`s going on is that semiconductor companies don`t want to increase capacity to a point where, if there`s a real slowdown ... 

 TUCKER:  Yeah. 

 PROFIT:  ... they can`t and - and - cut down their production that quickly.  So, sometimes you run into these ceilings where the most attractive products don`t have enough capacity to be developed.  And so in a situation like Sony (URL: http://www.world.sony.com/) PlayStation, like you said, I`d be a buyer of Sony here.  I would be a buyer of Intel (URL: http://www.intel.com/) here.  I`d be a buyer of Applied Microsystems  (URL: http://www.amc.com) .  And you probably will see them continue down a little bit; but as you see, even with bad news now, Intel is beginning to, to drift upwards. 

 TUCKER:  Right. 

 PROFIT:  And so, you - sometimes you just trust what you see. 

 TUCKER:  All right, great.  Eugene, thanks, stick around.  We`re going to do another break again.  And then when we come back, we`re going to continue taking your phone calls.  1-800-304-fnet is that phone number, folks, and talking.stocks@cnnfn.com is the mail address.  Be right back. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 TUCKER:  We`re back and we`re going to continue talking about semiconductors, actually.  We`ve got Liz on the line from New York.  Go ahead, Liz. 

 OPERATOR:  "If you`d like to make a call, please ... 

 TUCKER:  That didn`t sound like Liz.  Was that the right line for Liz? 

 UNKNOWN:  (INAUDIBLE). 

 TUCKER:  It was the right line.  You know, well, Liz had called in - and fortunately, we talk to folks when they call in.  So we know she wanted to talk about Intel (URL: http://www.intel.com/) and ask what`s going on with that stock, and whether you think it can recover.  I`m just trying to remember the current price on Intel is, but it`s been such a beaten. 

 PROFIT:  At $33. 

 TUCKER:  Thirty-three. 

 PROFIT:  Yeah.  I think that - again, Intel is one of those large-cap names; they`re not going out of business.  Their revenue shortfall really is coming from not being able to produce enough chips. And they actually have an innovative chip coming out that`s even faster than what`s out on the market.  And whenever that happens, there`s an upgrade cycle that computer users go through.  So, I`m a buyer of Intel.  It`s one of my favorite stocks, and I`d add positions here. 

 TUCKER:  We`ve got Muhammad on the line from Texas.  Go ahead, Muhammad, you`re on with Eugene. 

 CALLER:  Yeah, hello.  Do you hold Microsoft (URL: http://www.microsoft.com/) at this time or you sell it?  Thank you. 

 PROFIT:  Muhammad, unfortunately I do hold Microsoft at this time. 

 TUCKER:  Uhh, sorry, Eugene. 

 PROFIT:  But if I - that being said, I would still be buying it today. I think, yeah.  We - 

 TUCKER:  You`d felt much better if you`d been buying it all at this price, right? 

 PROFIT:  We bought Microsoft at 65 - right, right, yeah, but we`re not that smart. 

 (LAUGHTER) 

 I mean, we buy - we buy what we find to be attractive, with price from growth to P/E standpoint, and I think Microsoft is that type of company.  I don`t see a competitor out there yet that puts Microsoft in the position that they won`t exist as they`ve existed in the past. There was a scare for a while from VA Linux (URL: http://www.valinux.com/) and corporate networks. 

 TUCKER:  Yeah. 

PROFIT:  But I think you`ll see Microsoft bring out that Windows 2000. And they did have the first warning in the last 10 years.  But across the board were slow, and I think that Microsoft will be one of the winners coming out of this.  And this might be one point that you look back  and say, it`s one of those times when Microsoft was buyable, when no one else wanted it. 

 TUCKER:  All right, we`re going to take another quick break here. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc.  ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by eMediaMillWorks, Inc.  (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.)  No license  is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in  such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other  proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from  CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document tkst000020010813dwci0010v




 Expect cut early next year to revive rapidly slowing economy. 

 By Catherine Ong. 
626 words
18 December 2000
Business Times Singapore
STBT
English
(c) 2000 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

 But they expect a cut early next year to revive the rapidly slowing economy. 

 THE US Federal Reserve Board is not expected to cut interest rates when it meets tomorrow but analysts do not rule out a rate cut early next year to revive the rapidly slowing economy. 

 "Our expectation is that the Fed will shift to a neutral bias and will likely remain on hold till March," said Robert J Pelosky Jr, strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. 

 He added that the inflation-wary central bankers would tread cautiously despite a 40 per cent chance of a hard landing for the economy. "We see a Fed that's reactive rather than proactive," the Morgan Stanley strategist said, pointing out that the central bank is unlikely to do anything before president-elect George Bush unveils his legislative agenda after the Jan 20 inauguration. 

 A Gary Shilling, president of a New Jersey economic consultancy and investment advisory firm that bears his name, also expects the central bankers to leave overnight bank lending rate unchanged at 6.5 per cent when they convene their monthly meeting tomorrow. But he would not be surprised if the Fed tinkers with the rate before its Jan 31 meeting. 

 "We don't think they will do it next week but that doesn't mean they will wait six weeks," Dr Shilling said. He maintained that the economy, reeling from the delayed effects of a successive series of the Fed's credit squeeze, was not only cooling but is heading for a recession. 

 The Fed's inaction suggests that it is fighting "last year's inflation war" rather than the present deflationary forces, Dr Shilling contended, noting that the decision at its Nov 15 meeting not to drop rates "is typical of the Fed's penchant to overdo credit restraint". 

 Indeed on Wall Street, talk of a recession grows louder with every dramatic plunge in share prices. Last Friday saw another bloodbath when Dow Jones Industrial Index and the Nasdaq Composite sank in reaction to a profit warning from Microsoft. 

 The Dow skidded 2.3 per cent or 240.03 points to 10,434.96 while the Nasdaq lost 2.8 per cent, or 75.24 points, to 2,653.27. 

 The declines in the stock market have a more immediate impact on the economy than the six increases in interest rates from June 1999 to May this year. Falling share prices reduce the wealth effect and cause consumers to cut back on spending. 

 In yet another sign that Americans are fast tightening their belts, EToys, a major online retailer, warned last Friday that if it fails to attract fresh funding, it would run out of money at the end of March. It also disclosed that its third-quarter sales are expected to be half of its previous estimates of US$210 million (S$363 million) to $240 million. 

 Mr Pelosky of Morgan Stanley said in general, stock prices have not fully priced in the slower economic growth, so more earning downgrades are to be expected. The firm is looking at a moderate local-currency return of between 8-12 per cent in US equities for next year. It sees increased risk for the US dollar and upside for the euro, which it forecasts could reach parity with the greenback next June. "We are continuing the process which we began last summer of reducing equities in our portfolio and adding to fixed-income, particularly European government bonds," he said. 

 The US investment bank is also increasing its weighting of emerging markets which are further ahead in discounting the difficult environment. These include Brazil, South Korea, India, Hongkong, China and Russia. 

Document stbt000020010817dwci009t1




 FFBN Financials Wrap: Brokers, Banks Again Close Lower 

728 words
18 December 2000
13:04
Federal Filings Newswires
FF
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


ISSUER: FEDERAL FILINGS
SYMBOL: X.FFI
        (This market wrap was originally published Friday evening.)



        WASHINGTON (FFBN)--The Federal Filings Banking and Brokerage indexes
again closed lower Friday as fourth quarter earnings concerns continued to
plague the broad market.
        The Federal Filings Banking Index dropped 0.9%, or 4,412.1, to
478,602.9, while our Brokerage Index declined 0.5%, or 1,140.1, to 235,055.1.
        Within the banking group, Chase Manhattan Corp. and J.P. Morgan & Co.
Inc. traded up after selling off Thursday as a result of their own fourth
quarter profit warning.  Chase added 2.5%, or $1.06, to $43.94, while J.P.
Morgan rose 1.3%, or $2.06, to $160.
        Western bank UnionBanCal Corp. slumped 10% after saying late
Wednesday that it will earn 1 cent a share in the fourth quarter because of a
credit loss provision of nearly $250 million.  Eleven analysts polled by
First Call/Thomson Financial expected the company to earn 80 cents a share in
the quarter.  UnionBanCal, which said the provision reflects weakening
business conditions and an "aggressive approach" to managing its loan
portfolio, fell $2.44 to $21.31.
        Because of UnionBanCal's decline, the Federal Filings subindex of
Western Banks dropped 4.1%, or 718.9, to 17,012.2.
        Insurers, likewise, posted declines, with the Federal Filings
Insurance Index slipping 0.8%, or 4,011.7, to 515,670.9.
        American Financial Group emerged as one exception to the downward
trend.  The company gained 17%, or $3.34, to $23, after saying it plans to
sell its Japanese division to Mitsui Marine & Fire Insurance Co. of America
for $22 million.  The company also said it raised its proposed offering of
stock to 7.25 million shares from 6.25 million and priced the offering at
$19.63 a share.
        Life insurance component Conseco Inc. also posted gains Friday on
news that it lowered its public and bank debt by $808.4 million.  Conseco
rose 0.7%, or 6 cents, to $9.
        In the broad markets, the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed down
240.03, or 2.3%, to 10,434.96, while the Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Market
ended down 28.78, or 2.2%, to 1,312.15.  The Nasdaq Composite Index also
closed lower, falling 75.24, or 2.8%, to 2,653.27.
COMPANY NEWS:
                                Net     Pct    EPS   EPS
FIRST TENNESSEE NATIONAL CORP.    Close   Change  Change   00E   01E
                         $25.06   +$0.06   +0.3% $1.74 $1.97
First Tennessee National Corp. signed a definitive agreement to sell its
Peoples & Union Bank unit, based in Lewisburg, Tenn., to First Farmers &
Merchants National Bank, based in Columbia, Tenn.  First Tennessee said it
expects to realize a $12 million pretax gain from the sale. The companies
expect to close the deal in the first quarter.  First Tennessee also said the
sale doesn't change its goal of meeting or exceeding market expectations for
earnings in 2001.
                                Net     Pct    EPS   EPS
NATIONAL CITY CORP.               Close   Change  Change   00E   01E
                         $25.38   -$0.25     -1% $2.16 $2.34
National City Corp. plans to close 69 Loan Zone retail stores in the U.S.,
and leave the auto leasing and wholesale loan origination businesses of its
Altegra unit.  The company expects to record a pretax charge of about $43
million to $46 million in the fourth quarter for severance costs and asset
writedowns.  A First Call/Thomson Financial survey of 19 analysts estimated
the company's fourth quarter earnings to be 55 cents a share.  The change is
expected to affect about 200 employees.
                                 Net     Pct    EPS   EPS
AMERICAN EXPRESS CO.             Close   Change  Change   00E   01E
                        $54.63   -$0.81   -1.5% $2.07 $2.35
American Express Co. plans to purchase the British online brokerage company
Sharepeople Group PLC for $44 million.  American Express is offering 17.5
pence per share for the issued shares, and exercisable share options and
warrants in Sharepeople.  American Express said the entry into the U.K.
market would complement its U.S. brokerage operations, which began in October
1999.  The move to acquire the brokerage and its 18,000 accounts is part of
the company's plan to expand products and services around the world.



08:04


Document ff00000020010806dwci02awe




 US bond markets - Stock outflow succours treasuries. 

775 words
18 December 2000
The Economic Times
ECTIM
English
(c) 2000 The Times of India Group

 US government bonds rose Friday as a sell-off in US stocks after a profit warning from software giant Microsoft, trumped a government report showing a modest pickup in core inflation. 

 Treasuries benefited most from the slush of cash flowing out of stocks as investors sought the relative safety of government-guaranteed securities as they often do in times of market stress. 

 Prices of investment grade corporate bonds slipped while mortgage-backed securities and debt issued by federally chartered agencies ended little changed. 

 "As we get more evidence of a slowing economy and with tech stocks getting hammered, it prompts investors to look for safety, and rolling into treasuries has been the way forward for many," said Don Kowalchik, fixed income strategist at A.G. Edwards & Sons. 

 "Municipal bonds also saw some good buying," he added. Strategists said renewed weakness in equity prices helped to lift treasuries, which had suffered mild profit-taking earlier after a report showed November core consumer prices - the broadest measure of inflation - rose slightly more than Wall Street had expected. 

 "As long as the market is shifting toward weaker growth, the (bond) market will tend to trend higher," said Tony Richards, head of US fixed-income strategy at Brinson Partners in Chicago, which manages $50 billion in fixed-income assets. 

 At the 5 pm New York close, 10-year Treasury notes rose 8/32 from Thursday's 5 pm close to 104-9/32. Their yield, which moves inversely to the price, held at 5.18 per cent. Thirty-year bonds rose 10/32 to 112-3/32, yielding 5.42 per cent. 

 Two-year notes rose 4/32 to 100-14/32, yielding 5.38 per cent and five-year notes rose 6/32 to 102-20/32 to yield 5.14 per cent. 

 US corporate bonds finished weaker after an extraordinarily busy week for new issuance, as traders got a head start on the expected year-end slowdown. 

 At least 26 companies sold a combined $11.4 billion of bonds this week - $10.2 billion of which was investment grade - lured by falling treasury yields and, for much of this week, narrowing corporate bond spreads. 

 Sinking stock prices had little to no effect on corporate bond traders, as spreads, the yield difference between those bonds and comparable maturity US treasuries, weakened about one to two basis points on Friday. 

 The tech-laced Nasdaq shed 2.8 per cent while the Dow Jones industrial average fell 2.3 per cent. 

 Microsoft, following the lead of many other companies heavily linked to the personal computer and technology sectors, issued its first profit warning in more than a decade after Thursday's closing bell. 

 US mortgage-backed securities saw solid buying but lagged treasuries gains, traders said. 

 "For the first time in a while we've seen some mortgage buying," said Alec Crawford, mortgage strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, who said mortgages have underperformed over the past week versus swaps. 

 The buying in mortgage debt this session was mostly in lower coupons, Crawford said. Mortgage plays generally seek refuge in the lower, discount coupons when fears about refinancing and prepay take hold. 

 Low rates are expected to fuel refinancings as home owners rush to save on borrowing costs. 

 The refinancings are expected to kick up prepayment of mortgage-backed securities, forcing investors to reinvest their cash in lower yielding investments. 

 Agency bonds underperformed treasuries after a week when longer-dated issues closed around eight basis points tighter as the market benefited from a skittish mortgage-backed securities sector. 

 Freddie Mac (nyse: FRE), separately, unveiled details of its much-awaited subordinated debt program that will see its first issuance in the first quarter of 2001. 

 The program, dubbed Freddie SUBS, is part of a larger plan to expand disclosure and risk management. 

 Goldman Sachs & Co. was retained by Freddie Mac as an advisor, and the syndicate structure will be announced before the first offering. Earlier, the Labour Department said its November consumer price index, the government's broadest measure of inflation, rose by a moderate 0.2 per cent, as expected, matching October's 0.2 per cent rise. 

 Core prices, which strip out more volatile food and energy components and tend to be watched more closely by the markets, rose by 0.3 per cent, more than the 0.2 per cent expected and the 0.2 per cent pace in October. 

 But the market overwhelmingly expects the Federal Reserve will scrap its official view that inflation poses the greatest risk to the economy when it meets to discuss interest rates. 

Document ectim00020010807dwci001wv




 International FiberCom Shares Tumble Amid 4th-Quarter  Profit Warning 

 By John Seward 
295 words
18 December 2000
21:26
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Dow Jones Newswires 

 NEW YORK -- Shares of International FiberCom Inc. sank to a 52-week low after the company warned that rain delays in Texas and execution problems at two infrastructure-development sites will make it miss analysts' fourth-quarter earnings estimates. 

 Phoenix-based International FiberCom (IFCI), which builds network infrastructure for telecommunications providers, said it now expects earnings of one cent to three cents a share on revenue 10% to 15% below expectations. The mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial was for earnings of 13 cents a share. A year earlier, the company earned $2.6 million, or nine cents a share, on revenue of $54.8 million. 

 Mark D. Hughes, an analyst with SunTrust Equitable Securities Inc., noted International FiberCom has missed expectations in three of the last five quarters. 

 "They've been very successful with top-line growth," he said, "but they haven't been able to bring this to the bottom line. In a business like that, you're always going to have problems with weather and relations with customers." Mr. Hughes also suggested that project managers may be at fault. 

 International FiberCom said it will post a $6 million charge because of execution problems at two projects, adding that the company has "taken immediate steps to remedy our execution problems through the assignment of project and group management." 

 At 4 p.m. EST on the Nasdaq Stock Market, International FiberCom shares were down $3.56, or 37%, to $6 on volume of 5.7 million shares. The daily average is 810,700 shares. 

 Write to John Seward at john.seward@dowjones.com 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020020330dwci01m8b




MARKET BEAT
 Business; Financial Desk 
 YOUR MONEY Cyclical Realities: Wall St. Grapples With the Downside 

 TOM PETRUNO 
1,472 words
17 December 2000
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-1
English
 Copyright 2000 Los Angeles Times 

 As technology stocks' swoon deepened in October and November, some of the investors fleeing that holy mess found refuge in a much simpler business concept: bleach. 

 Shares of Clorox Co., the maker of the famous bleach and many other household products (charcoal, Glad bags, salad dressings and more), surged 38% from mid-September to late-November, a run-up that coincided with a 22% slide in the tech-dominated Nasdaq composite stock index. 

 Classic Wall Street theory fueled that split performance: If tech stocks still were richly valued, while spending on tech equipment was slowing with the weakening economy, there was a high likelihood of more pain ahead for that sector. By contrast, even in a struggling economy people still would need bleach to keep their clothes clean and Glad bags to keep their bologna sandwiches fresh. 

 Or would they? Thursday, the day that Microsoft Corp. joined the ever-lengthening list of tech firms warning of weaker-than-expected earnings ahead, Clorox also dropped a bomb: It said sales this quarter will decline from the year-ago period, slashing profit. The Oakland company's shares skidded 27% for the week to end Friday at $30.06, a nine-month low. 

 Somewhat amusing, unless you're a Clorox shareholder, was that the company in part blamed its sales troubles on "an unprecedented number of vacancies" among its managerial ranks, as key staffers left over the last year or so to join Bay Area Internet companies. 

 But Clorox also said it has been surprised by how sharply consumers have cut back on cleaning product purchases in recent months, as spending in general has slowed. 

 Clorox's problems may well be unique among makers of so-called consumer-staple products. But if its warning is echoed by rivals in coming weeks and months, it will fit the time-honored pattern of the economy and the stock market when boom gives way to something less fun: People will look for places to hide, but hiding places will become increasingly scarce. 

 * 

 In an economic slowdown, Wall Street's game at first turns "defensive": Many investors initially sell the stocks of companies that are most vulnerable as business and consumer spending weakens. Rather than leave the market entirely, however, investors turn to shares of companies that are unlikely, or less likely, to be affected by the slowdown. 

 Traditionally, those defensive sectors have included household-product makers, food companies and drug companies, because many or most consumers don't stop cleaning their homes, eating, or taking medicine, even if they do stop buying homes, cars or computers. 

 If the economy's downturn deepens, however, even classic defensive sectors can begin to be squeezed as people watch their wallets much more carefully. 

 The stocks in those sectors, in turn, are more at risk because their prices have been pushed up as investors have rushed into them, hoping for safe haven--i.e., the Clorox example. 

 There will always be companies that will manage to escape even severe economic slumps relatively unscathed, but investors understandably become less willing to take a chance on even those stocks as concerns over the economy mount. 

 That mentality appeared to be dominant last week, as 16 of 19 U.S. stock mutual fund categories tracked by Morningstar Inc. fell. The average domestic stock fund slid 4.2% for the week, putting the year-to-date decline at 3.2%. 

 On Friday, another painful market sell-off drove the Nasdaq composite as low as 2,596 by midday, though it rebounded to close at 2,653.27, off 9.1% for the week and down 34.8% year-to-date. 

 The blue-chip Standard & Poor's 500 index also rebounded from its worst levels Friday, but still closed at a new 52-week low, at 1,312.15. It lost 4.2% for the week and is off 10.7% year-to-date. 

 Investors may be getting used to disappointment this year, but many probably still were unprepared to see stocks fall even as the presidential election battle came to an end, with Wall Street's clear favorite, George W. Bush, as the victor. 

 What's more, the conventional wisdom a few weeks ago was that further signs of economic weakness would be good for stocks, because the evidence would compel the Federal Reserve to act faster to loosen credit and keep a slowdown from spiraling into a recession. 

 So far, that bad-news-is-good-news concept isn't holding much water with the investors who are making buy-and-sell decisions on a daily basis. Even so, there remains the chance that the Fed, at its policy meeting Tuesday, will go beyond what's already expected--removal of the central bank's inflation-worry "bias"--and make some statement that strongly indicates that interest rate cuts are coming in 2001. 

 If the Fed does go the extra yard in trying to calm investors, but the market refuses to climb out of its funk even then, hope for the long-awaited year-end rally may all but evaporate. 

 * 

 If Wall Street can't find its mojo any time soon, suspicions will rise that the market is foretelling a full-blown recession--the feared "hard landing" for the economy. 

 The market, of course, can and does get these things wrong. When it does, it makes for an excellent buying opportunity for investors with guts and patience. 

 That was the case in September 1998, when investors pummeled U.S. stocks, thinking that Russia's debt woes would trigger a global financial-system implosion. It didn't happen, in part because the U.S. economy was so strong, and in part because the Fed rode to the rescue, cutting short-term interest rates three times in rapid succession. 

 If, however, the market is correctly foreshadowing that spending by businesses and consumers alike is in the process of an extended pullback, the question becomes whether share prices as yet reflect the full impact of that pullback on corporate profits. 

 There are some very good reasons to believe that profits, even without an official recession (which is two consecutive quarters of shrinking gross domestic product), will be under pressure for most of next year. And profits, remember, are what ultimately underpin stock prices. 

 Goldman Sachs & Co. economist Ed McKelvey recently cut his estimate for profit growth in the U.S. corporate sector overall to a mere 2.5% in 2001, down from an expected 11% this year. 

 McKelvey sees problems on three fronts. First, he says, labor productivity is likely to decelerate with a weakening economy--which is what has happened historically. 

 Second, he sees workers pressuring companies for higher wage increases, in part because of the large jump in energy costs that people are being forced to bear (think gasoline and home-heating costs). 

 Third, the corporate borrowing binge of recent years, and the probability that many companies will have to fund their capital-spending budgets for 2001 with more borrowed funds, will mean that burdensome interest bills will continue for many firms, unless the Fed slashes rates. 

 * 

 The closer investors are to the stock market, and the larger the nest egg they have at stake, the challenge at times like this is to remind oneself that markets, and the economy, are forever cyclical. In other words, we've been here before. 

 In the economy, fast growth gives way to slower growth and, sometimes to recession. Eventually, though, fast growth returns, and with it a surge in corporate profits. 

 In the stock market, bull markets give way to relatively modest pullbacks ("corrections") and sometimes to bear markets. Eventually, many stocks (though certainly not all) rebound. 

 The accompanying chart is one I trot out annually, generally when things are either very bad, or very good, on Wall Street. With nine words, the chart sums up the path of the market's cycle, and the emotions that dominate at each stage of the cycle, from boom to bust. 

 It's clear in retrospect that tech stocks were peaking in March, because so many investors had absolute conviction about the stocks even at their wildly inflated prices--and because greed was driving those who weren't in the shares to get in. 

 Today, the tech stock curve seems to be somewhere in the vicinity of "concern" and "capitulation" on the chart. We may not have hit bottom, but we're probably closer to it than to the peak. 

 The broader market is a tougher call; it will only become clearer as we see in 2001 just how much of a struggle the economy faces. 

 * 

 Tom Petruno can be reached at tom.petruno@latimes.com. 

 GRAPHIC: The Market's Cycle, Los Angeles Times; 

Document latm000020010808dwch02ipw




 How the Markets Moved - Microsoft warning drags down Dow. 

 James Robinson. 
841 words
17 December 2000
The Scotsman
SC
28
English
(c) 2000

 THE markets will be braced for further turmoil when they open tomorrow following Friday's huge sell-off. A profit warning from Microsoft, its first for 10 years, shocked Wall Street and wiped 10 per cent off the value of the company, dragging down the Dow Jones Index and the tech-heavy Nasdaq in its wake. 

 The Dow fell 240.03 to 10,434.96 - a drop of 277.94 on the week. In London, the FTSE 100 followed suit, shedding 88 points to close at 6175.8, a one-week drop of 112.8 points. 

 The Techmark 100 dived by 4.2 per cent as the raft of hi-tech profit warnings emanating from the other side of the Atlantic continued to take their toll. 

 Durlacher became one of the British TMT sector's most high-profile casualties last week when it warned it will lose money in the second half of this year. The specialist technology stockbroker came close to claiming a FTSE 100 place only a few months ago, but the sharp correction in dot.com valuations has since hit the company hard. 

 Durlacher chief executive Geoffrey Chamberlain said it would write off 13m pounds from the value of its investment portfolio. Some of its stakes in hi-tech companies are now worth less than the sums originally invested. 

 Durlacher shares closed at 22p on Friday, down from 323U4p at the start of the week. 

 The American presidency was finally decided on Wednesday, but the US market failed to stage the rally many had predicted following confirmation that George W Bush had won the White House. 

 It seems increasingly likely that Bush will inherit a cooling US economy. A profit warning from Chase Manhattan, hard on the heels of a similar alert from Bank of America the previous week, added to fears of a rapid slowdown. 

 On this side of the Atlantic, Lloyds TSB indicated that it would raise its bid for Abbey National, but the posturing between Abbey, Bank of Scotland and Lloyds continued, much of it conducted through the press. The Takeover Panel may this week force Lloyds to "put up or shut up" and launch a formal bid. 

 Abbey shares rose from 1092p to 1177p last week, with Bank of Scotland also posting a small gain of 191U2p to close at 7061U2p. Shares in Lloyds TSB crept up 501U2p to 6971U2p. 

 The long-awaited consolidation in the house-building industry looks set to begin in earnest after two of the sector's biggest companies, Bryant and Beazer, announced that they are to merge to create a #760m industry giant. 

 Bryant held talks with its smaller rival Alfred McAlpine earlier this year, but the two sides could not agree on who should run the combined group. Shares in Bryant were 21U2p down on the week at 1451U2p. Beazer shares put on 151U2p to close at 146p on Friday. 

 Chemicals company Laporte was bought by its German rival Degussa SKW for #1.36bn in cash on Friday. Laporte has transformed itself from an unwieldy industrial conglomerate to a focused speciality chemicals business under the leadership of chief executive Jim Leng, making it an attractive target for overseas predators. Laporte shares soared by 961U4p on the news. They closed at 6861U2p on Friday, up from Monday's opening price of 552p. 

 The hostile battle between Scottish packaging companies BPI and Macfarlane was deadlocked as yesterday's 1pm deadline for shareholders to accept or reject Macfarlane's #114m offer came and went. Both sides claimed they had the support of 31 per cent of shareholders when the market closed on Friday. Macfarlane shares were up 6p at 61U2p. BPI lost some ground, shedding 10p to end the week at 295p. 

 Shares in frozen food specialist Iceland received a boost when the company announced that Bill Grimsey, former head of Wickes, had been appointed chief executive. 

 Grimsey, who left the DIY group shortly after it was bought by Duke Street Capital earlier this year, is a former Tesco executive who has made no secret of his desire to return to the food sector. Iceland shares were up 21U2p at 3351U2p over the week. 

 Grimsey's appointment will allow chairman Malcolm Walker to resume a less demanding role. He was forced to step in as acting chief executive following the surprise departure of Grimsey's predecessor, Stuart Rose, who left to join beleaguered high street clothing retailer Arcadia last month. 

 Allied Domecq confirmed that it had pulled out of the bidding for Seagram's drinks arm on Monday, ending weeks of speculation over whether the company intended to make a serious offer for the business. 

 Chief executive Philip Bowman said that the expected price tag of around #5.5bn was too high and argued that Allied's acquisition of Captain Morgan rum and Stolichnaya vodka meant it did not need to bid. The market seemed to agree, pushing the company's shares up from 4141U2p to 4383U4p over the week. 

Document sc00000020010816dwch00u2y


 Market set for shake-up. 

405 words
17 December 2000
Sunday Mail
SUNMAI
38
English
(c) 2000 Advertiser Newspapers Limited

 The Australian sharemarket faces another shake-up when trading resumes tomorrow after a stock slump in New York on Friday. 

 Wall Street stocks slumped as fears about the cooling US economy's impact on companies' growth became more anguished, with Microsoft warning investors to expect less profits and revenues. 

 The Nasdaq composite index ended down 75 points, or 2.7 per cent, at 2652. The Dow Jones Industrial average sank 240 points, or 2.25 per cent, to 10,434. The benchmark Standard & Poor's 500 lost 28 points, or 2.15 per cent, to 1312, its lowest close of the year. 

 Trading volume was very heavy, and the "triple witching" expiration of stock options, index options and futures exaggerated the market's swings. 

 For the week, the Dow fell 2.6 per cent, the Nasdaq was off 9 per cent and the S&P 500 fell 4.2 per cent. This year, the Dow is down 9.2 per cent, the Nasdaq 34.8 per cent and the S&P 500, 10.7 per cent. 

 Microsoft, a Dow com ponent and Nasdaq heavyweight, warned that a global slowdown, lower personal computer sales and less corporate spending would erode its earning and revenue growth. The stock lost nearly 12 per cent after tumbling to its lowest in more than two years. Nearly 158 million shares of Microsoft changed hands. 

 International Business Machines fell 5 per cent. 

 Together, the declines in IBM and Microsoft accounted for about 28 per cent of the Dow decline. 

 Microsoft joins a growing pile of marquee names such as Intel, Eastman Kodak, General Motors and Chase Manhattan painting dismal growth pictures as the economy slows. 

 Oracle, the world's No. 2 software maker, offered some hope as its stock gained slightly after profits beat expectations. But computer-related companies suffered as Microsoft gave more evidence growth is winding down. 

 Cisco Systems, the world's largest provider of gear that powers the Internet, also suffered a fall. 

 Internet equipment supplier Sun Microsystems was down and EMC Corp, also suffered after Bear Stearns cut investment ratings on the stocks and pointed to weak corporate technology spending. Clorox, the maker of its namesake bleach, tumbled after saying quarterly earnings will fall below year-ago levels, on lower sales. Polaroid lost price after issuing a profit warning in the face of lower instant film and camera shipments. 

Document sunmai0020010817dwch00b3n




 City & Business - Dubya trouble for world economy. 

 By Jason Nisse. 
934 words
17 December 2000
Independent On Sunday
INDOS
2
English
(c) 2000 Independent Newspapers (UK) Limited. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, distributed or exploited in any way.

 In Bill Clinton's campaign war room, when he beat George Bush senior to the Oval Office, there was a big sign. It said: "It's the economy, stupid." 

 It was there to remind everyone that the single biggest issue that decides who will win the White House is the economy. When one of the many women to accuse Mr Clinton of sexual misdemeanours sold her story, the slogan was changed to: "Forget Paula Jones. It's Dow Jones that matters." 

 George Bush junior might well pay heed to these aphorisms. Far be it from me to suggest that Dubya is stupid; there's lots of other people who do that. But more certain than rigged ballots, recounts by the Miami Herald or the liberal backlash, what will ensure that George W will be back in Texas, cooling his heels, come 2005 is if the US economy has its much-feared hard landing. 

 What is the danger of this? We will know a little better after the Federal Reserve Board pronounces on Tuesday. But the great sage Alan Greenspan has already indicated that he is worried and that interest rates are coming down accordingly. A benign interest rate policy will give a layer of feather-bedding to the technology, telecoms and investment banking fall-out on the other side of the pond. 

 However, there are some things that even the great Greenspan cannot control. One is the oil price. The other is the march of time. 

 On oil, my colleague Dan Gledhill's suggestion that investors could do worse than buy some barrels of crude and store them in their back garden has proved correct. We've seen a doubling of the price in two years, and though it has eased to $25 a barrel, it will not take much to push it back up to $30. At that price the US, and Europe for that matter, will find it hard to keep growing at current rates. For Dubya to avoid a swift return to the Texas oil fields, he needs Opec to get sensible and a price of $20 or even less. 

 The march of time is what could see the retirement of the most influential man in world markets since John Maynard Keynes. Alan Greenspan will be 75 in March. He was appointed by Ronald Reagan, and reappointed by Dubya's daddy and by Slick Willie. 

 But the new president will not have a chance to reappoint Mr Greenspan. His current term runs until 2004 and I would bet he steps down before then. Why do I say this? Mr Greenspan is a wise and proud man. When he worked with the Clinton administration, he was helping to guide the most successful economy in the world and working with some of the smartest brains in the trade and finance fields. Does he want to try to guide an isolationist and troubled economy run by an intellectual pygmy? 

 Nobody can even guess who will succeed Mr Greenspan. But the problem is that he or she will be appointed by George W Bush. 

 Be afraid. Be very afraid. 

 Cracks in Egg's strategy 

 My strategy for the launch of Nisse Bank has been scuppered. I had planned to stand on street corners offering people crisp #5 notes to open an account. Once I had signed up a few million customers, I would persuade the market that, never mind the losses, I had such a customer base that my bank had to be worth a billion quid or so. 

 But the latest twist in the Egg saga has thwarted me. Not content with offering deposit rates higher than loan rates, and then deciding to open high-street outlets to support a supposedly virtual bank, Egg is now boasting of the success of its credit card. It says its current offer has brought 141,000 customers. But the tactic is to offer interest-free credit on pur-chases for six months, while also offering a cashback of up to 2 per cent. If, say, every one of these customers spends #1,000 on the card and then only pays the money back at the end of the six months, Egg will lose at least #7m. 

 With that sort of business plan, the only way Egg shares are going is down. 

 With heroes like these ... 

 My faith in the intelligence of those that lead us is being diminished all the time. The Financial Times has joined with PricewaterhouseCoopers to find out which is the most admired company in the world. Thankfully, the 720 chief executives voted for GE as the winner but second place went to Microsoft, which issued a profit warning on Friday, and 17th place went to JP Morgan, which issued a profit warning on Thursday. 

 Others praised included eighth-placed Intel - another recent profit-warning casualty - Coca-Cola and Procter & Gamble, which both have got rid of their chief executives in the past year. Also in the top 12 were DaimlerChrysler, where there has been rather a lot of management upheaval since the merger, and General Motors, which has just inflicted rather a lot of pain in Luton. 

 What is most depressing is that if you ask mostly American executives for their rating of good managers, they will inevitably come up with Americans. A genuine innovator like Nokia cannot make it into the top 10 and L'Oreal, surely the most savvy major consumer goods company in the world, only just makes the top 30. 

 n j.nisse@independent.co.uk. 

Document indos00020010811dwch000ep




 TOP STORIES FROM THE US, EUROPE AND ASIA FRIDAY. 

1,492 words
16 December 2000
00:55
Market News International
MARNEW
English
(c) 2000. Market News International, Inc.

 * [US TSY'S MODESTLY HIGHER] U.S. Treasuries were modestly higher in late trading Friday after stocks took a dive on fears of additional earnings warnings, leading to safe-haven flows into Treasuries, market sources said. The 30-year bond was up 5/32 to yield 5.42% at 4 p.m. EST with the 10-year note gained 8/32 to a yield of 5.17% and the two-year note was 1/32 higher at 5.36%. 

 * [FED EXPECTED TO SHIFT TO NEUTRAL] Most strategists foresee at minimum a shift in the Fed's rate bias to one of neutrality, at the FOMC meeting Tuesday, ahead of a 25-bps ease in late January. Some analysts go further, saying the Fed will move to an easing stance next week at the Tuesday meeting or even cut rates then. 

 * [US STOCKS SHARPLY LOWER] U.S. share prices were sharply lower Friday afternoon in exceptionally heavy volume, pressured by an earnings warning from Microsoft and analyst downgrades of Hewlett-Packard and Sun Microsystem. Microsoft trimmed projections late Thursday citing a worldwide slowing in computer demand. Though Microsoft lowered revenue and profit estimates by a modest 5 percent, it was only the second warning in the company's history. Microsoft was down 6 5/16 at 49 3/16. [MSFT]. The Nasdaq composite fell 75.24, 2.76%, to 2,653.27. The Dow industrials plunged 240.03 points, 2.25%, to 10,434.96. 

 * [US PRODUCTION DOWN FOR SECOND MONTH; INFLATION MODERATE] Industrial production declined for the second month in a row Friday, the Fed reported, a key confirmation of the building downturn in the manufacturing sector. Announcements of cutbacks in the auto sector are now routine, with Ford saying Friday it will idle two plants next week. Consumer inflation remained tame in November, with the CPI up 0.2% and the core rate up 0.3% - ex-tobacco up 0.2% - confirming a host of other indications that slower growth is a greater risk to the economy than the risk of inflation. 

 * [EURO STABILIZES] The euro stabilized late Friday and clung to most of the day's gains against the dollar and yen, as expectations grew that Euroland will continue to outperform both the U.S. and Japan. The euro stood at $0.8953 vs the dollar and at 100.80 vs the yen, down slightly from the mid-day session. Friday's announcement in Japan that two major credit unions will begin insolvency proceedings combined with further market talk of negative fourth quarter GDP revisions, continued to weigh on the yen and Japanese stocks. 

 * [US CONGRESS COMPLETES BUDGET] The House and Senate passed the $127 billion omnibus spending bill Friday night, completing the long overdue budget work for the year and finally setting spending levels of the current fiscal year that began Oct. 1. President Clinton will sign the bill shortly, lifting an austerity regime for many agencies and departments that had been making do without additional spending authority from the previous year's levels. 

 * [CANDIDATE FOR US TSY ENDS CONGRESSIONAL CAREER] The enemy of the U.S. income tax who nevertheless is touted as a leading contender to be the next Secretary of the Treasury, House Ways and Means Committee Chairman William Archer, gave his last address on the floor of the chamber Friday. Archer, speaking in behalf of the omnibus budget agreement that was shortly to be approved, said that as much as he's heard that the nation will never get rid of the individual income tax, he still has faith that Congress will be able to accomplish that goal, the same way it helped bring about budget surpluses once thought impossible. 

 * [BUSH SAYS TAX CUT STILL AHEAD] President-elect George W. Bush said Friday he plans to stick to the broader tax cut plan he proposed during his campaign, especially amid concerns about an economic slowdown. Speaking to reporters in Austin, Texas, after meeting with moderate Democratic Senator John Breaux of Louisiana about the agenda for Congress and a possible Cabinet post, Bush said, "The plan that the people heard in America is the plan that I hope to get passed." That would be a $1.3 trillion 10-year tax cut. 

 * [US ANALYSTS DON'T SEE RECESSION YET] Analysts generally think any recession call is premature right now, but in a couple of months the data may tell a different tale - especially if the Federal Reserve holds back and doesn't ease. It may not be long before it's possible to see whether the current "growth recession" becomes a negative growth recession, Mitsubishi Bank's Mike Niemira said. "By February I think we'll have a sense which path we're on, because that's about the point history suggests you start to have a divergence in pattern." The risks of a classic recession "are greater than we've seen for years." 

 * [IMF SAYS ARGENTINA STILL ON TRACK] The International Monetary Fund said early Friday that Argentina remains on track to draw around $2 billion in emergency funding and that the country is in "full compliance" with loan terms expected to be approved by the IMF board next month. The IMF's press spokesman for Latin America, Francisco Baker, told Market News International the IMF staff assessment is that Argentina is "indeed in full compliance with the current program," despite reports to the contrary. 

 * [US IMPORT BUYING STRONG IN OCTOBER] October's trade deficit sharply widened thanks to another strong surge of consumer products entering West Coast ports but then quickly tailed off in November and December, cargo and port executives said. Any comparisons to last year were additionally hampered by surging import volumes as inventories built in advance of a looming Y2K disaster, they add. What happens early next year is pretty much up to holiday shoppers in the next week because any weakness in sales will likely tighten the noose on imports in the first quarter - although it's still too early to tell, they say. 

 * [JAPAN'S ECONOMIC PLANNING AGENCY WILL REVISE DOWN] its data for third-quarter GDP to show a slight contraction from a slight gain, Japanese newspapers reported. The EPA originally reported GDP grew 0.2% in the third quarter but will revise the data in February. Meanwhile, Kyodo News reported that the EPA is looking at a target of around 1.8% for fiscal 2001 growth. 

 *    [JAPAN'S ECONOMY IS STILL RECOVERING GRADUALLY] but some weaknesses 

 are hampering a full-fledged recovery, the Economic Planning Agency said 

 in its monthly report. 

 *    [THE BANK OF JAPAN LEFT ITS INTEREST RATES ON HOLD] at the meeting 

 of its Monetary Policy Board. The BOJ said the decision was by a 

 majority vote. 

 *    [REPORTS: JAPANESE FINANCE MINISTER KIICHI MIYAZAWA] said the 

 government budget for fiscal year 2001 will not be expansionary, as the 

 budgets in the last few years have been. 

 *    [WASHINGTON POST: FED UNLIKELY TO CUT RATES] Federal Reserve 

 officials believe that the risk of serious weakness in the economy is as great as the risk that inflation will worsen, but none suggest that there is any urgent need to cut rates, according to an article by John Berry in the Washington Post. 

 * [GERMAN IFO SENTIMENT INDEX FALLS AGAIN] The Ifo research institute's west German business sentiment index fell for a six month in a row in November, to the lowest level since October 1999. The index fell to 97.0 from 97.2 in October. Future expectations declined but sentiment on current conditions rose. Head of Economic Research Willi Leibfritz said he expects the index to weaken more in the months ahead, indicating a further slowing in the economy. 

 * [GERMAN WHOLESALE PRICES FALL ON CHEAPER OIL] Wholesale prices in November fell unexpectedly for the first time this year largely due to cheaper oil products. They fell 0.2% on the month, while rising 6.4% on the year. 

 * [ITALY INDUSTRY OUTPUT FALLS AS EXPECTED] Unadjusted industrial output in October fell as expected by a seasonally and workday-adjusted 0.8% on the month, while rising 0.5% on the year. The monthly fall was bang in line with forecasts. 

 *    [WEAK SPAIN RETAIL SALES] Unadjusted retail sales in October rose 

 2.0% on the month but the annual rate was up only 2.6%, the statistical 

 agency reported. 

  *    [FRENCH TRADE BALANCE BACK IN THE RED] France registered a 

 seasonally adjusted trade deficit of E760 mln in October due to rising 

 oil costs and stagnating exports. The result was unexpected. 

 *    [STRONG JOB GROWTH IN FRANCE] A net 120,600 non-farm jobs were 

 created in the private sector in Q3, revised up 20,000 from a preliminary estimate, the Labor Ministry and national statistics agency reported. This represented a quarterly gain of 0.8% and an annual rise of 3.4%. Most of the gains came in services. 

 [TOPICS: MNSTNB,MBU $ $$]. 

Document marnew0020010814dwcg011yf




 Bush honeymoon with Wall Street is short-lived 

507 words
16 December 2000
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 NEW YORK, Dec 15 (AFP) - The rally fueled by the confirmation of George W. Bush as president turned out to be short-lived, as Wall Street came to grips this week with slowing US economic growth and weaker profits. 

 The Nasdaq, the so-called new economy index, slumped nine percent this week to end Friday at 2,653.27, and is now down 35 percent for the year and 47 percent from its March 10 peak. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 2.6 percent for the week to 10,434.96, and the broad Standard and Poor's 500 slid 4.2 percent to 1,312.15. 

 A profit warning from Microsoft warning upset the market because it was the first negative profit pre-announcement from the technology bellwether in more than a decade. 

 The market was also affected by earnings warnings from "old economy" shares like Clorox, Black and Decker and Polaroid. 

 The weakening economy has led some analysts to suggest that the US Federal Reserve should waste no time in cutting interest rates -- perhaps as soon as its meeting on Tuesday. 

 Most economists say the Fed will merely shift its "bias" -- which had been tilted toward higher rates to guard against inflation -- to a more neutral position, and that a rate cut would be likely in January. 

 "Universal expectations, which we share, are that the Fed will move to a neutral bias," at its December 19 meeting, said Merrill Lynch chief economist Bruce Steinberg. 

 But if we were (Fed chairman Alan) Greenspan, we would actually ease (rates) that day." 

 "The FOMC meeting can't come fast enough. If they don't indicate some softening in their stance, the market will plunge," said a trader at  Swiss-American Securities. 

 Henry Willmore of Barclays Capital, however, said the markets should not count their chickens yet, because inflation dangers remain. He said some analysts are counting on at least two quarter- point cuts in the federal funds rate in early 2001. 

 "Given the lagging effects of energy prices and still very tight labor markets, we expect services inflation to continue to accelerate in 2001," Willmore said. 

 "This should push core inflation to over three percent next year. While we still expect the (Fed) to adopt a symmetric statement of risks next week, the data in this report call into question the two eases the market has priced in for the first quarter of next year. Our view is that the Fed is unlikely to ease until mid-year at the earliest." 

 Microsoft slid nearly 10 percent for the week to 49-3/16, while Compaq slid 11 percent to 17.35 and IBM 9.5 percent to 87-13/16. 

 Wal-Mart slid 8.4 percent for the week and Home Depot tumbled 11 percent. 

 Time Warner and America Online gained after getting regulatory approval for their merger. Time Warner gained 4.9 percent to 72.72 dollars and AOL 4.4 percent to 48.96. 

 vog-rl/ch 

Document afpr000020010803dwcg05bjt




America's financial markets can now stop blaming the electoral impasse for their woes, and start ...

1,191 words
16 December 2000
The Economist
EC
English
(c) The Economist Newspaper Limited, London 2000. All rights reserved 

America's financial markets can now stop blaming the electoral impasse for their woes, and start focusing on fast deteriorating economic fundamentals.

America's financial markets can now stop blaming the electoral impasse for their woes, and start focusing on deteriorating economic fundamentals

WALL STREET had been hoping against hope that a result in the presidential race would spark a stockmarket rally. But on December 13th, as news spread that Al Gore had decided to concede, a surge in the New York and Nasdaq stockmarkets soon faltered. Could it be that all the talk by Wall Street's bullish share gurus about the damaging impact of presidential uncertainty was so much hot air? The real reason for the onset of a bear market in shares has been a sharp decline in the prospects of many American companies, as the economy has slowed and sources of fresh capital have dried up.

Profit warnings have become a daily ritual. One by one, companies that had seemed effortlessly able to meet analysts' expectations have delivered bad news, and most have been punished by investors for their trouble. As suppliers complain that bills are not being paid on time by well-known companies that are using every trick in the book to eke out their profits, can it be long before even Cisco issues a profit warning-and how will investors react to their current poster-child proving fallible?

Profits are "falling off a cliff", says Chuck Hill of First Call, a research firm. On October 1st, analysts were forecasting profit growth of 15.6% for the S&P 500 companies in the fourth quarter. Now they expect only 7% growth, with the outlook worsening by the day. Technology-company profits, expected to rise by 29% at the start of the quarter, are now tipped to rise by only 10%, says Mr Hill. January, when most results are announced, will be more miserable than ever-particularly if consumer sentiment continues to deteriorate. The University of Michigan survey of consumer confidence plunged sharply this month. November's retail sales figures, released on December 13th, were much weaker than expected.

Cometh the hour, cometh the man-or so investors hope. The "Greenspan put" is once again the talk of Wall Street. This mythical financial security first entered the investment lexicon after the crisis in 1998 over the collapse of Long-Term Capital Management, a hedge fund. The idea is that the Federal Reserve can be relied upon in times of crisis to come to the rescue, cutting interest rates and pumping in liquidity, thus providing a floor for equity prices. This is similar to a put option that guarantees investors a minimum price at which they can sell their shares.

Belief that the put is again "in the money" was revived by the speech of the Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan, on December 5th, which was unusually clear in its up-beat, "I'm here" message. Since then, futures prices have been predicting a 50 basis-point cut in short-term interest rates by April.

For all his talk of the perils of irrational exuberance, Mr Greenspan has been adept at pumping up share prices in the past. Yet this time may prove too challenging even for his magic. Rate cuts may cause the dollar to weaken, perhaps leading foreign investors to think twice before buying American assets. And if the confidence of consumers really has been dented, after being so strong for so long, they may not respond as readily to a stimulus as economic models predict-particularly if they start to worry about their record levels of debt.

Above all, the private firms at the heart of the financial system may have become too risk-averse to respond to rate-cut promptings. Banks have taken a close look at their loan portfolios and turned white with fear. Bank of America, one of the biggest corporate lenders, this week announced yet another $1 billion debt write-off and the departure of a number of senior personnel from its lending operations. Mr Greenspan's appeal-quite remarkable for a central banker in an economy that is already deep in debt-that banks "should now guard against allowing the pendulum to swing too far the other way by adopting policy stances that cut off credit to borrowers with credible prospects," may fall on deaf ears.

Prospects are even gloomier in the corporate-debt markets. Mr Greenspan is right that "the palpable fear that dominated financial markets" in the 1998 liquidity crisis is absent today-for one thing, financial institutions have more capital and a better idea of what risks are in their portfolios. But the Fed chairman is surely kidding when he says that "current circumstances are in no way comparable" to then. Actually, according to the Bank Credit Analyst newsletter's respected "Financial Stress Index", they are even worse: the risk of financial turbulence has not been this high since the American banking crisis in 1990 (see chart).

The implosion of the corporate-debt markets has now sucked in the hitherto low-risk commercial-paper market, in which investment-grade companies do short-term borrowing. Spreads between blue-chip commercial paper and slightly lower-grade paper have soared from 25 basis points on November 24th to around 100 points now.

Two main factors are at work, says John Hollyer, a fund manager at Vanguard. In the first place, the market has expanded rapidly-from $82 billion a year ago to $140 billion today-as firms squeezed out of the bond market have sought shorter-term alternative financing. And secondly, there has been a sharp decline in the creditworthiness of some hitherto blue-chip borrowers-notably Xerox, which may have avoided bankruptcy only by drawing down a credit line that it had the foresight (or good fortune) to secure in happier times. There were 19 downgrades of commercial-paper issuers during the first nine months of 2000; so far in the fourth quarter there have been 20.

Things are worse still in the high-yield ("junk") bond market. A new report by Moody's, a credit-rating agency, forecasts a sharp increase in junk-bond defaults over the coming year. Worse still, Moody's lists a large crowd of firms that will need to refinance their debt (bonds and bank loans) next year, and calls into question their ability to do so. There is every chance that this list will have a similarly depressing effect on the debt markets as a list of dot.com firms that were running out of cash, published early this year by Barron's, had on Nasdaq.

This is not a happy situation for a new president. Nor will Mr Bush's enthusiasm for tax cuts reassure investors. And if he seeks comfort from the fact that the Republican Mr Greenspan is still at the helm, trying to keep the economy and the markets out of trouble, he should not discuss it with his father, who still blames the Fed chairman for losing him the 1992 election. 

Document ec00000020010806dwcg003ax




 US dip puts All Ords on tenterhooks. 

 By Ben Ready, Rebecca Thurlow. 
587 words
16 December 2000
Courier Mail
COUMAI
65
English
(c) 2000 Queensland Newspapers Pty Ltd

 THERE was no vote of confidence for George W. Bush from world markets yesterday, with the Australian and other Asian markets following Wall Street down with a thump. With the Dow Jones average spooked by earnings downgrades by two major US banks, the Australian market slumped from the bell and finished the day at a two-month low. A profit warning from Microsoft after US markets closed added to the gloom, and with News Corp, Telstra and the major bank and resource stocks all under pressure, the ASX200 dropped 47.8 points, or 1.46 percent, to 3229.2 points. The All Ordinaries index fell 45 points to 3178.1 points. News Corp, in particular, continued its recent unhappy run and its shares fell 83, or 5.3 percent, to $14.77 while its preferred scrip dropped 62 to $13.15. In New York overnight, investors largely ignored the final declaration of the US presidential race to focus on earnings warnings from financial groups Chase Manhattan and JP Morgan. 

  The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 119.45 points to 10,674.99 while the Nasdaq composite index fell 94.26 points to 2728.51. And negative sentiment in Asia, where the Nikkei was down 375 points to 14,552 and the Hang Seng off 521.46 to 14,975.53, was compounded by Microsoft's late call on earnings, which it said had begun to suffer because of the slowdown in computer sales. The bright spot on Australian markets was the local dollar, which surged half a US cent after US equities took their overnight dive. 

 The Aussie opened local trading at about its low of US54.10 but firmed to greet noon at US54.43. It rose to a high of US54.75 and late yesterday was trading at US54.62 compared with US54.06 late on Thursday. On the stockmarket, however, the banking sector, so strong in recent weeks, went soft. NAB fell 30 to $28.27 while the Commonwealth Bank slipped 2.6 to $30.239 after early bottoming out at $29.90. Westpac fell 20 to $12.86, ANZ 22.3 to $14.15 but St George defied the trend to push ahead 13.5 to to $13.395. 

 Kerry Packer's Publishing & Broadcasting was down 30.6 to $13.157 while Fairfax dipped 9 to $3.77. In the telcos, Telstra dropped 10 to $6.59 while Cable & Wireless Optus was steady at $3.79 after Telecom New Zealand declared its interest in its mobile assets. The dual-listed Telecom NZ was down 8 to $4.13. Insurer AMP was up 1 to $19.80 while NRMA fell 9 to $2.90 and QBE lost 14 to $9.61. 

 In other industrials, Qantas dropped 8 to $3.58, Brambles 49.2 to $44.058, Lend Lease climbed 22.4 to $22.30 and retailer Coles Myer lost 19 to $6.89. 

 The resource sector faltered on weaker commodity prices overnight with BHP losing 8.8 to $19.038 while Rio Tinto slipped 75, or 2.6 pe cent, to $27.75. 

 Rio Tinto's Japanese partners in the Robe River joint venture launched legal action in the Supreme Court of Victoria yesterday, signalling a complete breakdown in relations between the companies. Elsewhere in the sector, WMC fell 14 to $7.46, MIM 3 to $1.12, Woodside 9 to $14.67 and Santos 6 to $5.73. 

Document coumai0020010805dwcg010fy




 Microsoft warning sends TMTs further down. 

 By (Financial Times Service). 
448 words
16 December 2000
Irish Times
IRTI
22
English
(c) 2000

 DAX: 6,331.30 (-138.65); CAC-40: 5,839.54 (-66.11) 

 Microsoft's profit warning and lower openings on US markets spelt further falls for Europe's technology stocks, in sharp contrast to recent Fridays. Some of the biggest losers included Dutch cable company UPC, off 10 per cent; SAP, down 8 per cent; and ASM Lithography, which fell 7 per cent. 

 Telecoms companies continued their dismal performance, with France Telecom down 4 per cent to E98.40, Olivetti 5.2 per cent to E2.99, Sonera 4.9 per cent to E23.40 and Telefonica 6.2 per cent to E18.40. Deutsche Telekom got off relatively lightly with a 2 per cent fall to E37. Deutsche Bank maintained its "buy" rating on the stock and its target of E51 following the company's announcement of a new deal on bulk telephone connections for Internet service providers. German chipmaker Infineon lost 5 per cent to E44.85 following a similar fall the day before after parent group Siemens said it would reduce its 71 per cent stake. Siemens fell 1.6 per cent to E136.90. 

 Among media stocks, Seat Pagine Gialle, the Italian publisher and Internet service provider, bounced from year lows on short covering and speculation that Italy's competition authority may block its purchase of broadcaster TMC. It closed 4.8 per cent higher at E2.32, after hitting a year low of E2.22 on Thursday. Parcel service groups fell back after a double whammy of negative statements overnight from the US where United Parcel Services and Federal Express both issued profit warnings. The two leaders in Europe fell back, although most brokers felt that the signals from the other side of the Atlantic were of modest significance at worst. TNT Post came off 2.2 per cent at E26.94 and Deutsche Post shed 2.2 per cent at E22.51. 

 Dutch financial group ING moved centre stage as Goldman Sachs and Credit Suisse First Boston both gave their mark of approval to the group's decision to cut its investment bank operations. Goldman Sachs hit the banking sector hard on Thursday with a downgrade for five leading European groups because of weak capital market trends and higher US loan loss provisions for 2001. But yesterday it restarted ING with a price target of E110. And Credit Suisse First Boston resumed ING with a strong buy recommendation, with a price target of E105, citing cost cutting potential in life insurance from the integration of Aetna, ReliaStar and ING businesses in the US, along with prospects in Asia and emerging Europe. 

Document irti000020010811dwcg010pj




 Wall Street Stocks Continue Falling on Profit Warnings. 

355 words
15 December 2000
Xinhua News Agency
XNEWS
English
(c) Copyright 2000 Xinhua News Agency

 NEW YORK, December 15 (Xinhua) - Wall Street Stocks continued to fall Friday as a profit warning from software giant Microsoft reminded investors that corporate earnings going foreword will be uncertain because of the slowing economy. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 240.03 at 10,434. 96 points, extending its loss of 119.45 points Thursday. 

 Broader stock indicators were also lower. The technology heavy Nasdaq composite index ended down 75.93 at 2,653.27 and the Standard & Poor's 500 index was off 28.78 at 1,312.15. 

 The market opened lower today after Microsoft warned late Thursday that its earnings in the fourth quarter will be lower than earlier estimates because of a worldwide slowdown in computer sales. The selling pressures persisted until the close of session. 

 The disappointing forecast followed pessimistic reports from computer makers Gateway and Compaq and chip maker Intel. 

 Stocks fell sharply Thursday on similar warnings from major banking companies Chase Manhattan and J.P. Morgan. Corporate earnings warnings as well as the weak euro, the European currency, the high oil prices and uncertainty of the U.S. presidential election have hit stocks heavily since September. 

 A report on higher inflation rate also contributed to the sell-off today. The Labor Department said the Consumer Price Index rose a seasonally adjusted 0.2 percent in November from a 0.1 percent increase in October. 

 In blue chips, drug maker Pfizer fell. But J.P. Morgan recovered from a big selling in the previous session. 

 Among the tech shares falling today were Microsoft, Intel and Cisco Systems, network equipment maker. 

 The NYSE index fell 9.72 to 635.86 and the American Stock Exchange index was down 5.19 at 865.21. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies was off 3.79 at 458.03. 

 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 7-to-5 margin on the New York Stock Exchange, with 1,600 down, 1,322 up and 421 unchanged. 

 NYSE volume increased to 1.55 billion shares from 1.04 billion in the previous session. 

Document xnews00020010818dwcf01c7y




 US STOCKS SHARPLY LOWER - MICROSOFT WARNS - HP, SUN DOWNGRADED. 

467 words
15 December 2000
18:55
Market News International
MARNEW
English
(c) 2000. Market News International, Inc.

 NEW YORK (MktNews) - U.S. share prices were sharply lower Friday afternoon pressured by an earnings warning from Microsoft and analyst downgrades of Hewlett-Packard and Sun Microsystem. 

 At 1:40 p.m. ET, the Nasdaq composite was back near its year's lows, down 113.98, or 4.1 percent, at 2614.53. The S&P 500 was down 2.2 percent and the Dow Industrials down 1.7. Heavy volumes were made heavier by the triple-witching expiration of futures and of stock and index options. 

 Microsoft trimmed projections late Thursday citing a worldwide slowing in computer demand. Though Microsoft lowered revenue and profit estimates by a modest 5 percent, it was only the second warning in the company's history. Microsoft was down 6 at 49 [MSFT]. 

 Though the software company joins a long list of top technology companies that have issued warnings, including Intel and Compaq, many others are meeting estimates. Cisco has held in as has Nortel, while Oracle beat forecasts Thursday, rising 1 7/8 to 29 3/8 [ORCL]. 

 Computer and printer maker Hewlett-Packard was down 2 at 31 [HWP] on an analyst downgrade, as was network computer maker Sun Microsystems, down 3 3/16 at 28 1/2 [SUNW], and storage company EMC, down 8 at 66 1/8 [EMC]. Share prices of Hewlett-Packard and Sun have already been hit by profit worries, but EMC had remained notably strong. 

 Industrial production declined for the second month in a row, a key confirmation of the building downturn in the manufacturing sector. Announcements of cutbacks in the auto sector are now routine, with Ford, down 3/8 at 22 7/8 [F], saying Friday it will idle two plants next week. 

 Consumer inflation remained tame in November, confirming a host of other indications that slower growth is a greater risk to the economy and the risk of inflation. The Federal Reserve is expected to begin a turn to lower interest rates on Tuesday, shifting to a neutral from a restrictive bias. Dealers and analysts said the market will likely rally on the move, especially if the Fed indicates a firm intention of easing rates early in 2001. 

 Though inflation is tame, prices of tobacco did show another sharp rise in November. Tobacco companies have been climbing sharply in recent months due not only to hopes that the Republicans will go easy on them but also on higher pricing and higher margins in the sector. 

 HCA-The Healthcare Company was down 0.84 at 37.70 after reportedly agreeing pleading guilty to defrauding government health care programs and agreeing to pay more than $840 million in fines and penalties. 

 ***MARKET NEWS INTERNATIONAL NEW YORK NEWSROOM 212 509 9270*** 

 [TOPICS: MNUEQ$]. 

Document marnew0020010814dwcf011nc




 European currencies in demand, dlr and yen decline. 

245 words
15 December 2000
06:52
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 0645 GMT - European currencies holding good gains in Late Tokyo, though running into some profit-taking as the weekend nears. - Yen sentiment hurt by report that two Japanese credit unions were to be put into bankruptcy. Followed early rumours that one or more Japanese regional banks were in trouble. - Dollar still suffering from sharp falls in U.S. equities and a profit warning from Microsoft. - All the yen crosses under pressure, with good demand seen for Aussie/yen, which jumped to 61.50 yen breaking a year-old downtrend line. - Euro firm at 100.30 yen having broken major resistance in the 100/100.16 area to hit four-month highs. - Swiss franc up at 10-month highs on the yen above 66.50 yen while sterling clears 166.00 yen to test seven-month highs around 166.20. - Euro firmer against dollar at $0.8930 cents but overbought and meeting resistance above $0.8940. 

  - Other Europeans also doing well, with sterling up at $1.4740 while the dollar has sunk below key 1.6900 support against the Swiss franc . - Dollar steadies at 112.41 yen after bouncing from 111.85, but blocked by option-related offers at 112.85. - Market waiting for German Ifo survey later today. - Average forecasts are for the index to show its sixth straight monthly fall but some traders see chance of upside surprise given falling oil prices and a rallying euro. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcf0a45s




 Yen on defensive, European currencies in vogue. 

247 words
15 December 2000
05:11
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 0505 GMT - Yen weak across the board on Friday on concerns about the Japanese economy, while the dollar was undermined by steep falls in U.S. equities and a profit warning from Microsoft. - Yen sentiment hurt by report Kansai Kogin, a credit union serving Koreans in Western Japan, had failed. But this not as bad as early rumours that a Japanese regional bank was in trouble. - All the yen crosses under pressure, with good demand seen for Aussie/yen which has jumped to 61.50 yen and broken a year-old downtrend line. - Euro firm at 100.50 yen having broken major resistance in the 100/100.16 area to hit four-month highs. - Swiss franc up at 10-month highs on the yen above 66.50 yen while sterling clears 166.00 yen to test seven-month highs around 166.20. - Euro firmer against dollar at $0.8930 cents but overbought and meeting resistance at $0.8940. - Other Europeans also doing well, with sterling up at $1.4740 while the dollar has sunk below key 1.6900 support against the Swiss franc . 

  - Dollar steadies at 112.50 yen after bouncing from 111.85, but blocked by option-related offers at 112.85. - Market waiting for German Ifo survey later today. - Average forecasts are for the index to show its sixth straight monthly fall but some traders see chance of upside surprise given falling oil prices and a rallying euro. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcf0a3mr




 Top tech stocks at year lows, weakness seen spreading. 

 By Peter Henderson 
425 words
15 December 2000
18:18
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 SAN FRANCISCO, Dec 15 (Reuters) - Shares of major computer hardware makers tumbled on Friday after a string of brokers cut ratings on concerns that weakness in the sector is spreading and corporate demand for computers will fall. 

 The American Stock Exchange computer hardware index .HWI) was off 12.50, or 5.65 percent to 208.81 around mid-session, touching a low unseen since April 1999. 

 Network computer maker Sun Microsystems Inc. and computer and printer firm Hewlett-Packard Co., the focuses of two pessimistic reports, were among the top losers. Both stand out for not making profit warnings for the current quarter, although even some of the companies which have lowered forecasts were hit in the troubled market, which was also reeling from a warning by software developer Microsoft Corp. late on Thursday. 

 Sun, which Bear Stearns cut to Attractive from Buy, lost $3-7/16, or 10.85 percent, to $28-1/4, its low for the year and less than half its year high of $64-10/16, which was set at the beginning of September. 

 Analyst Andy Neff said he feared weakness in the PC industry among small and medium business and low-end servers, the computers that run networks, could spread and put financial estimates at risk. 

 Most of the warnings by computer makers so far have focused on slack consumer buying, but Neff said senior corporate executives appeared cautious about the slowing economy, which could hurt Sun. 

 Neff also cut computer network storage maker EMC Corp to Attractive from Buy, and its shares fell $8-3/4 to $65-7/8. 

 "EMC is clearly the best house in a growing neighborhood, but the fires in the neighboring community may spread," he wrote. 

 Hewlett-Packard was near the bottom of a range it has traded in this month, and close to dropping out of the range to its lowest since December 1998. 

 It was off $2-1/4 to $31-1/4 in New York after Goldman Sachs analyst Laura Conigliaro cut her per share earnings estimate for 2001 to $1.85 from $1.95. H-P's shares were worth $77-3/4 in April. 

 "A softening PC market...has spread beyond just the U.S. consumer space into the commercial desktop market," she wrote. 

 Shares of Compaq Computer Corp, which cited weakness among small businesses when it issued profit and sales warnings earlier this week, were off $1.66, or 8.88 percent to $17.04. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcf0a2le

Search Summary

 Text((“profit*” same “warning*”) or ("disappoint*" same "result*") or ("decreas*" same "profit*") or ("compan*" same "downturn*") or ("unexpect*" same "loss*"))   Date12/01/2000 to 12/31/2000   SourceAll Sources   AuthorAll Authors   CompanyAll Companies   Subject Not Corporate/Industrial News   IndustryAll Industries   RegionUnited States   LanguageEnglish   Results Found241   Timestamp29 March 2018 10:27  


•	  Euro hardy against yen, dollar in Europe. 
•	  U.S. Bond Markets-Stock outflow succors Treasuries. 
•	  US Bond Markets-Stock outflow succors Treasuries. 
•	 Bears go on the prowl after Dow's new slide; MARKET REPORT  
•	 Bears go on the prowl after Dow's new slide; MARKET REPORT  
•	 Euro shines in another bruising day  
•	 Newscast:  Microsoft lowers profit projections and its stock drops to lows not seen since October 1998   
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	  Banking Woes Hit Small Stocks; Intermedia, Silicon Image Also Fall   
•	  Tech Slump Hits Asian Markets  
•	 Microsoft  profit warning  spooks Wall Street
•	  Euro flirts with 0.90-dollar threshold 
•	  European stocks drift lower on raft of US profit warnings 
•	  Nasdaq jitters unnerve investors. 
•	  Big Five hit by U.S. banks' profit warnings Slowing economy, rate rises take toll on Chase Manhattan, J.P. Morgan bottom line 
•	  France Stocks Review - Nasdaq's woes drag down TMTs - CAC down 1.1%. 
•	  FFBN Financials Wrap: Brokers, Banks Again Close Lower 
•	  US Junk Bonds: SpectraSite Prices $200M; No Deals On Tap 
•	  WSJ.COM: Stocks Open Lower After Microsoft Warning 
•	  Brazil's Real Early At BRR1.968/Dlr Vs BRR1.963 End Thu 
•	  SMARTMONEY.COM: Pre-Wedding Jitters At JP Morgan Chase 
•	  US Junk Bonds: SpectraSite Prices $200M; No Deals On Tap 
•	  Asian Markets Update  
•	  Global banking news socks Canadian bank stocks. 
•	  UPDATE 2-Chase, JP Morgan see weak profits, to cut 5,000 jobs. 
•	 Newscast: Market numbers   
•	 NATION WORLD
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	  Techs stocks sink with concerns over growth. 
•	  Europe Bk Shrs Burned By Pft Warning, Goldman Downgrade 
•	  European Bank Shrs Fall On Chase Warning,Goldman Fallout 
•	  US STOCKS TO OPEN FIRM - BUSH SECTORS STRG BUT LITTLE SPILLOVER. 
•	  More Profit Warnings Hurt Techs, As Nasdaq Slips Back Below 3000   
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	  Market given a vital pick-me-up. 
•	  Potential landmines ahead. 
•	  Nasdaq swings into reverse. 
•	 US STOCKS STEADY, AWAITING SUPREME COURT -  PROFIT WARNING  SNUBS.
•	 NATION/WORLD
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	  News Highlights: Florida House Approves 25 Bush Electors 
•	  MARKET TALK: Uneventful Session In Stock Futures, For Now 
•	  MARKET TALK: Prudential Steps Up To Defend Yahoo! 
•	  MARKET TALK: Great Chance In 'A' Tier Telecoms, SSB Says 
•	  MARKET TALK: Hey, The NYSE Stays Open All The Time, Too 
•	  MARKET TALK: More Chance Of Upside For Nasdaq Than Downside 
•	  MARKET TALK: Unofficial Price Talk On Worldcom Issue 
•	  MARKET TALK: Acampora Likes Qualcomm, Unisys, Others 
•	  MARKET TALK: Tsys Get Back Some Losses, But Still Soft 
•	  MARKET TALK: GM Shares Slip After 4Q Warning 
•	  ON24 Audio Investor Alert: Analyst: DLCK Has No Visibility in the Future 
•	 American Surge Leaves Investors Stumped
•	  UPDATE 1-Microchip Tech warns sales will fall short. 
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	  And The Drama Continues... / A Tough Call Made Openly And Honestly 
•	 BUSINESS WEEK IN REVIEW
•	  Surge in Tech Stocks Briefly Raises Hopes for a Recovery Markets: Uncertainty returns with latest Florida ruling on election dispute. Lower...
•	 Amid signs that America's economy is slowing, Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, admitted...
•	  $A spikes to US55c. 
•	  Company Results: STAGECOACH - Public Transport Operator - BUY - SGC 
•	  Company Results: BALDWINS INDUSTRIAL SERVICES - Crane Hire - FAIRLY PRICED - 
•	  US shockwave rattles equity market - Wall Street in retreat. 
•	  Market report - New York stocks continue downward slide. 
•	  BondBiz: Weak Data=Higher Stocks, Lower Bonds, Right? 
•	  US STOCKS SLIP, NOT SINK, ON TECHNOLOGY PROFIT WARNINGS. 
•	 Bank of America  Profit Warning  Hurts Stock Market
•	  The Kansas City Star, Mo., Commodities Column 
•	 Hi-techs hurt as US giants pile on grief  
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	  Fickle Investors, Earnings Warnings Torpedo Rally   
•	 ORANGE COUNTY BRIEFLY  Profit Warning  Sends Water Pik Shares Down
•	  Markets Stocks Tumble After Tuesday's Run-Up 
•	  Intel Shares Fall to 52-Week Low; IBM, Dell, Bank of America Drop   
•	  Tokyo stocks end lower on Wall Street's retreat 
•	 NATION WORLD
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	 Newscast: Stock report and business news   
•	 US conditions are a plus for us
•	  Greenspan sends market soaring - Talk of turning point as Hang Seng surges 525 points. 
•	  Tech plays lead Nasdaq's biggest 1-day gain. 
•	  Exports lift soybean prices 
•	  Profit warnings send blue chips, techs reeling: Bank of America, Apple: 'People are still very anxious about prospects for 2001' 
•	  City - The Market - Wall Street blight on shares' flying start. 
•	  Headlines From International Herald Tribune Thursday 
•	  MARKET TALK: A Grinch Wendy's Wasn't Counting On 
•	  MARKET TALK: He Shouldn't Have Trouble Finding Work 
•	  MARKET TALK: Stock Futures Bounce, But 'Feel Weak' 
•	  MARKET TALK: Surely Mr. Greenspan Appreciates Your Advice 
•	  MARKET TALK: Merrill Economist Sees 50 BP Cut By June 
•	  MARKET TALK: Ex-Tsy Spokesman Lands Gig At NASD 
•	  MARKET TALK: Merrill Cuts Growth View On Wealthy Nations 
•	  MARKET TALK: New Session Lows On March S&Ps 
•	  MARKET TALK: If You Price It Low Enough, It'll Go Up 
•	  MARKET TALK: Stocks Can't Shake Weakness 
•	  MARKET TALK: A.G. Edwards Says BAC Dividend Safe 
•	  MARKET TALK: MOT Problem One Of Execution, Says Merrill 
•	  TheSUBWAY.com Announces Investment Opinions on Clements Golden Phoenix Enterprises, Scient Corp., Red Hat Inc., Adelphia Communications and...
•	  TheSUBWAY.com Announces Investment Opinion on Clements Golden Phoenix Enterprises 
•	  US TSYS UP SLIGHTLY IN EARLY US - FRONT END HIGHER. ?
 

 Euro hardy against yen, dollar in Europe. 

115 words
15 December 2000
07:45
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 0730 GMT - Euro buoyant against yen , quarter yen below four-month highs set earlier, amid general yen weakness. Japan FinMin Miyazawa says tempo of Japan's recovery appears to be slowing. 

 - Kansai Kogin, Japan's largest credit union, says will holds news conference 0730 GMT amid media reports Japanese financial authorities have started talks on closing it. 

 - Dollar close to previous day's 16-month highs against yen , but hovering above earlier one-week lows against euro after profit warning from Microsoft late Thursday. Nasdaq futures down 60 points. 

 - German Nov Ifo index due at 0900 GMT, forecast at year-low of 97.1 from previous 97.2. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcf09wvv
?
 

 U.S. Bond Markets-Stock outflow succors Treasuries. 

 By Andrew Priest 
806 words
15 December 2000
22:46
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 15 (Reuters) - U.S. government bonds rose on Friday as a sell-off in U.S. stocks after a profit warning from software giant Microsoft Corp. trumped a government report showing a modest pickup in core inflation. 

 Treasuries benefited most from the slush of cash flowing out of stocks as investors sought the relative safety of government-guaranteed securities as they often do in times of market stress. 

 Prices of investment grade corporate bonds slipped while mortgage-backed securities and debt issued by federally chartered agencies ended little changed. 

 "As we get more evidence of a slowing economy and with tech stocks getting hammered, it prompts investors to look for safety, and rolling into Treasuries has been the way forward for many," said Don Kowalchik, fixed income strategist at A.G. Edwards & Sons. 

 "Municipal bonds also saw some good buying," he added. 

 Strategists said renewed weakness in equity prices helped to lift Treasuries, which had suffered mild profit-taking earlier after a report showed November core consumer prices - the broadest measure of inflation - rose slightly more than Wall Street had expected. 

 "As long as the market is shifting toward weaker growth, the (bond) market will tend to trend higher," said Tony Richards, head of U.S. fixed-income strategy at Brinson Partners in Chicago, which manages $50 billion in fixed-income assets. 

 At the 5 p.m. (2200 GMT) New York close, 10-year Treasury notes rose 8/32 from Thursday's 5 p.m. close to 104-9/32. Their yield, which moves inversely to the price, held at 5.18 percent. Thirty-year bonds rose 10/32 to 112-3/32, yielding 5.42 percent. 

 Two-year notes rose 4/32 to 100-14/32, yielding 5.38 percent and five-year notes rose 6/32 to 102-20/32 to yield 5.14 percent. 

 U.S. corporate bonds finished weaker after an extraordinarily busy week for new issuance, as traders got a head start on the expected year-end slowdown. 

 At least 26 companies sold a combined $11.4 billion of bonds this week - $10.2 billion of which was investment grade - lured by falling Treasury yields and, for much of this week, narrowing corporate bond spreads. 

 Sinking stock prices had little to no effect on corporate bond traders, as spreads, the yield difference between those bonds and comparable maturity U.S. Treasuries, weakened about one to two basis points on Friday. 

 The tech-laced Nasdaq shed 2.8 percent while the Dow Jones industrial average fell 2.3 percent. 

 Microsoft, following the lead of many other companies heavily linked to the personal computer and technology sectors, issued its first profit warning in more than a decade after Thursday's closing bell. 

 U.S. mortgage-backed securities saw solid buying but lagged Treasuries gains, traders said. 

 "For the first time in a while we've seen some mortgage buying," said Alec Crawford, mortgage strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, who said mortgages have underperformed over the past week versus swaps. 

 The buying in mortgage debt this session was mostly in lower coupons, Crawford said. Mortgage plays generally seek refuge in the lower, discount coupons when fears about refinancing and prepay take hold. 

 Low rates are expected to fuel refinancings as home owners rush to save on borrowing costs. The refinancings are expected to kick up prepayment of mortgage-backed securities, forcing investors to reinvest their cash in lower yielding investments. 

 Agency bonds underperformed Treasuries after a week when longer-dated issues closed around eight basis points tighter as the market benefited from a skittish mortgage-backed securities sector. 

 Freddie Mac, separately, unveiled details of its much-awaited subordinated debt program that will see its first issuance in the first quarter of 2001. The program, dubbed Freddie SUBS, is part of a larger plan to expand disclosure and risk management. 

 Goldman Sachs & Co. was retained by Freddie Mac as an advisor, and the syndicate structure will be announced before the first offering. 

 Earlier, the Labor Department said its November consumer price index, the government's broadest measure of inflation, rose by a moderate 0.2 percent, as expected, matching October's 0.2 percent rise. 

 Core prices, which strip out more volatile food and energy components and tend to be watched more closely by the markets, rose by 0.3 percent, more than the 0.2 percent expected and the 0.2 percent pace in October. 

 But the market overwhelmingly expects the Federal Reserve will scrap its official view that inflation poses the greatest risk to the economy when it meets to discuss interest rates on Tuesday and instead warn that a rapid slowdown in growth poses equal danger, paving the way for a possible cut in rates. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcf09of0
?
 

 US Bond Markets-Stock outflow succors Treasuries. 

 By Andrew Priest 
834 words
15 December 2000
22:45
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 15 (Reuters) - U.S. government bonds rose on Friday as a sell-off in U.S. stocks after a profit warning from software giant Microsoft Corp. trumped a government report showing a modest pickup in core inflation. 

 Treasuries benefited most from the slush of cash flowing out of stocks as investors sought the relative safety of government-guaranteed securities as they often do in times of market stress. 

 Prices of investment grade corporate bonds slipped while mortgage-backed securities and debt issued by federally chartered agencies ended little changed. 

 "As we get more evidence of a slowing economy and with tech stocks getting hammered, it prompts investors to look for safety, and rolling into Treasuries has been the way forward for many," said Don Kowalchik, fixed income strategist at A.G. Edwards & Sons. 

 "Municipal bonds also saw some good buying," he added. 

 Strategists said renewed weakness in equity prices helped to lift Treasuries, which had suffered mild profit-taking earlier after a report showed November core consumer prices - the broadest measure of inflation - rose slightly more than Wall Street had expected. 

 "As long as the market is shifting toward weaker growth, the (bond) market will tend to trend higher," said Tony Richards, head of U.S. fixed-income strategy at Brinson Partners in Chicago, which manages $50 billion in fixed-income assets. 

 At the 5 p.m. (2200 GMT) New York close, 10-year Treasury notes rose 8/32 from Thursday's 5 p.m. close to 104-9/32. Their yield, which moves inversely to the price, held at 5.18 percent. Thirty-year bonds rose 10/32 to 112-3/32, yielding 5.42 percent. 

 Two-year notes rose 4/32 to 100-14/32, yielding 5.38 percent and five-year notes rose 6/32 to 102-20/32 to yield 5.14 percent. 

 U.S. corporate bonds finished weaker after an extraordinarily busy week for new issuance, as traders got a head start on the expected year-end slowdown. 

 At least 26 companies sold a combined $11.4 billion of bonds this week - $10.2 billion of which was investment grade - lured by falling Treasury yields and, for much of this week, narrowing corporate bond spreads. 

 Sinking stock prices had little to no effect on corporate bond traders, as spreads, the yield difference between those bonds and comparable maturity U.S. Treasuries, weakened about one to two basis points on Friday. 

 The tech-laced Nasdaq shed 2.8 percent while the Dow Jones industrial average fell 2.3 percent. 

 Microsoft, following the lead of many other companies heavily linked to the personal computer and technology sectors, issued its first profit warning in more than a decade after Thursday's closing bell. 

 U.S. mortgage-backed securities saw solid buying but lagged Treasuries gains, traders said. 

 "For the first time in a while we've seen some mortgage buying," said Alec Crawford, mortgage strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, who said mortgages have underperformed over the past week versus swaps. 

 The buying in mortgage debt this session was mostly in lower coupons, Crawford said. Mortgage plays generally seek refuge in the lower, discount coupons when fears about refinancing and prepay take hold. 

 Low rates are expected to fuel refinancings as home owners rush to save on borrowing costs. The refinancings are expected to kick up prepayment of mortgage-backed securities, forcing investors to reinvest their cash in lower yielding investments. 

 Agency bonds underperformed Treasuries after a week when longer-dated issues closed around eight basis points tighter as the market benefited from a skittish mortgage-backed securities sector. 

 Freddie Mac , separately, unveiled details of its much-awaited subordinated debt program that will see its first issuance in the first quarter of 2001. The program, dubbed Freddie SUBS, is part of a larger plan to expand disclosure and risk management. 

 Goldman Sachs & Co. was retained by Freddie Mac as an advisor, and the syndicate structure will be announced before the first offering. 

 Earlier, the Labor Department said its November consumer price index, the government's broadest measure of inflation, rose by a moderate 0.2 percent, as expected, matching October's 0.2 percent rise. 

 Core prices, which strip out more volatile food and energy components and tend to be watched more closely by the markets, rose by 0.3 percent, more than the 0.2 percent expected and the 0.2 percent pace in October. 

 But the market overwhelmingly expects the Federal Reserve will scrap its official view that inflation poses the greatest risk to the economy when it meets to discuss interest rates on Tuesday and instead warn that a rapid slowdown in growth poses equal danger, paving the way for a possible cut in rates. 

 Treasuries ........ 

 U.S. Debt Futures....... 

 U.S. Debt Options....... 

 U.S. Agency debt........ 

 U.S. Corporate bonds.... 

 U.S. Mortgage-backeds... 

 U.S. Asset-backeds...... 

 U.S. Swap markets........ 

Document lba0000020010821dwcf09oer
?
 

Bears go on the prowl after Dow's new slide; MARKET REPORT  

MICHAEL CLARK  
612 words
15 December 2000
The Evening Standard
NS
B
48
English
(c) 2000 Associated Newspapers. All rights reserved  

THE stock market bears were sharpening their claws again today as share prices in London fell sharply. Brokers warn there may be worse to come.  

Overnight the Dow Jones tumbled almost 120 points after two of America's biggest investment banks Chase Manhattan and JP Morgan came out with profit warnings. The hi-tech Nasdaq market was also rocked by a profits warning from the mighty Microsoft that saw its shares slump 5% in late trading. In London today, the futures market was indicating yet more falls in the States when trading resumes this afternoon, with the Nasdaq expected to open almost 60 points down.  

It has been yet another bad week for City investors with the prospect of a late Christmas rally steadily receding. On Wednesday, US securities house Goldman Sachs told clients the risk of a global recession was growing and warned that profit forecasts were up to 40% too high. Jeremy Batstone, head of research at NatWest Stockbrokers, is gloomy about prospects. He warns that the slowdown in the US and British economies could lead to deflation.  

In the event, the FTSE 100 index fell 80.5 points to 6183.3 as investors withdrew to the sidelines. Brokers reported that few punters were attempting to unload stock.  

That profits warning from Microsoft hurt other hi-tech companies. Bookham Technology fell 85p to 1090p, Baltimore was down 21p at 382p and Marconi off 34p at 771p.  

The banks also came under further pressure, reflecting those profit warnings from the big American banks. HSBC fell 26p to 960p, Halifax 171/2p to 6221/2p and Standard Chartered 13p to 937p. Abbey National shed 171/2p to 1172p, still waiting to see the next move from Lloyds TSB, down 41/2p at 686p. The mortgage lender has already rejected two offers from Lloyds and says it wants to concentrate on a possible merger with Bank of Scotland, down 6p at 701p.  

Legal and General touched 1781/2p before rattling back to trade 33/4p down at 1731/4p after it emerged that the life assurer has appointed US Investment bank Goldman Sachs and merchant bank Lazard Brothers as its financial advisers while retaining UBS Warburg and Dresdner Kleinwort Benson as joint brokers. The market has been abuzz with talk this week that Barclays, unmoved on 2015p, might want to bid, having paid Pounds 5 billion for the Woolwich earlier this year. But Barclays says chief executive Matt Barrett prefers to concentrate on joint ventures with other companies.  

Merger talks between Legal and General and NatWest Bank collapsed last year when Bank of Scotland and Royal Bank of Scotland, up 21p at 1515p, launched bids for the bank.  

J Sainsbury retreated 8p to 392p ahead of details of the sale of its Homebase DIY chain to Schroder Ventures for about Pounds 800 million. The Pounds 1.4 billion bid for Laporte, up 961/4p at 692p, by the German outfit Degussa focused attention back on the rest of the chemical sector with Croda International up 7p at 2621/2p and Ascot ahead 13p at 234p.  

Down 10% yesterday ahead of interim results today, shares of London Clubs International tumbled 42p to 59p - 41%.  

The London Stock Exchange might care to take a look at this one. The group is toying with the idea of a rights issue to ease the strain on its balance sheet.  

Prices and indices in this section are supplied from various sources and calculated at different times and may not always match those listed in the tables. Ofex prices relate to the previous close.  

944947328

Document NS00000020061020dwcf002ra
?
 

Bears go on the prowl after Dow's new slide; MARKET REPORT  

MICHAEL CLARK  
612 words
15 December 2000
The Evening Standard
NS
B
48
English
(c) 2000 Associated Newspapers. All rights reserved  

THE stock market bears were sharpening their claws again today as share prices in London fell sharply. Brokers warn there may be worse to come.  

Overnight the Dow Jones tumbled almost 120 points after two of America's biggest investment banks Chase Manhattan and JP Morgan came out with profit warnings. The hi-tech Nasdaq market was also rocked by a profits warning from the mighty Microsoft that saw its shares slump 5% in late trading. In London today, the futures market was indicating yet more falls in the States when trading resumes this afternoon, with the Nasdaq expected to open almost 60 points down.  

It has been yet another bad week for City investors with the prospect of a late Christmas rally steadily receding. On Wednesday, US securities house Goldman Sachs told clients the risk of a global recession was growing and warned that profit forecasts were up to 40% too high. Jeremy Batstone, head of research at NatWest Stockbrokers, is gloomy about prospects. He warns that the slowdown in the US and British economies could lead to deflation.  

In the event, the FTSE 100 index fell 80.5 points to 6183.3 as investors withdrew to the sidelines. Brokers reported that few punters were attempting to unload stock.  

That profits warning from Microsoft hurt other hi-tech companies. Bookham Technology fell 85p to 1090p, Baltimore was down 21p at 382p and Marconi off 34p at 771p.  

The banks also came under further pressure, reflecting those profit warnings from the big American banks. HSBC fell 26p to 960p, Halifax 171/2p to 6221/2p and Standard Chartered 13p to 937p. Abbey National shed 171/2p to 1172p, still waiting to see the next move from Lloyds TSB, down 41/2p at 686p. The mortgage lender has already rejected two offers from Lloyds and says it wants to concentrate on a possible merger with Bank of Scotland, down 6p at 701p.  

Legal & General touched 1781/2p before rattling back to trade 33/4p down at 1731/4p after it emerged that the life assurer has appointed US Investment bank Goldman Sachs and merchant bank Lazard Brothers as its financial advisers while retaining UBS Warburg and Dresdner Kleinwort Benson as joint brokers. The market has been abuzz with talk this week that Barclays, unmoved on 2015p, might want to bid, having paid Pounds 5 billion for the Woolwich earlier this year. But Barclays says chief executive Matt Barrett prefers to concentrate on joint ventures with other companies.  

Merger talks between Legal & General and NatWest Bank collapsed last year when Bank of Scotland and Royal Bank of Scotland, up 21p at 1515p, launched bids for the bank.  

J Sainsbury retreated 8p to 392p ahead of details of the sale of its Homebase DIY chain to Schroder Ventures for about Pounds 800 million. The Pounds 1.4 billion bid for Laporte, up 961/4p at 692p, by the German outfit Degussa focused attention back on the rest of the chemical sector with Croda International up 7p at 2621/2p and Ascot ahead 13p at 234p.  

Down 10% yesterday ahead of interim results today, shares of London Clubs International tumbled 42p to 59p - 41%.  

The London Stock Exchange might care to take a look at this one. The group is toying with the idea of a rights issue to ease the strain on its balance sheet.  

Prices and indices in this section are supplied from various sources and calculated at different times and may not always match those listed in the tables. Ofex prices relate to the previous close.  

944947328

Document NS00000020060917dwcf0031o
?
 

Euro shines in another bruising day  

JANE PADGHAM  
154 words
15 December 2000
The Evening Standard
NS
E
41
English
(c) 2000 Associated Newspapers. All rights reserved  

EUROPE'S single currency was the clear winner in another bruising day for the City and Wall Street, where concerns about corporate prospects and a US recession overshadowed the end of election uncertainty, writes Jane Padgham.  

Both London and Wall Street shares were in negative territory, the Dow Jones not helped by yesterday's profit warning from Microsoft. Wall Street was also spooked by news that industrial production fell for the second month in a row in November, heightening fears that the US economy could be falling off a cliff.  

Separate figures showed inflation remains benign, boosting expectations that the Federal Reserve will move to a neutral stance on interest rates next week.  

The dollar caved in to selling pressure, propelling the pound to $1.4735 while the euro added half a cent to 89.75 - its highest since the G7 intervention on 22 September.  

944947309

Document NS00000020060917dwcf00316
?
Newscast:  Microsoft lowers profit projections and its stock drops to lows not seen since October 1998   

373 words
15 December 2000
Minnesota Public Radio: Marketplace
MKPL
English
(c) Copyright 2000, Minnesota Public Radio. All Rights Reserved.   

DAVID BRANCACCIO, anchor:   

Even the world's biggest software company cannot inoculate itself from a slowing economy.  Microsoft says it won't meet its profit projections for this quarter, and its shares closed down more than 11 percent to $49 and change, lower even than during those dark days when a federal judge ordered the breakup of the company to remedy its monopoly, the lowest since October of 1998. MARKETPLACE's Michelle Brier has more from New York.   

MICHELLE BRIER reporting:   

Companies have been admitting they'll miss their earnings estimates at such a fast and furious pace that Wall Street's hardly been surprised when even the best-known brand names join the crowd. But there were some companies believed to be immune to the warning blues, and  Microsoft was one of them--until now.   

Mr. BILL RHODES (Chief Investment Strategist, Williams Capital): Everybody is suffering from slower sales growth.   

BRIER: Bill Rhodes, chief investment strategist at Williams Capital, says the economy slowdown is so broad-based that no one, not even  Microsoft, can escape.   

Mr. RHODES: Any company, no matter how large, no matter how deeply ingrained in the economy they may be, is going to have some difficulty right now growing earnings at the same pace that they were growing them before.   

BRIER: There are three big reasons why the  Microsoftwarning really rattled investors. First,  Microsoft has only issued a profit warning once before in its 14-year history as a publicly traded company. Second, it's the industry bellwether. And third, the warning said  Microsoft will miss the mark on earnings not only because consumers are spending less on computers, but because businesses are doing the same. And that raises worries of an even darker economic picture ahead. In New York, I'm Michelle Brier for MARKETPLACE.   

BRANCACCIO: The NASDAQ Composite fell 75 points, 2 3/4 percent; it's down 9 percent for the week. The Dow Jones industrial average falling 240 points today, 2 1/4 percent. A slowing economy cutting into company profits is the theme here. More on that with the Texas stock broker in a few minutes.   

Document MKPL000020070820dwcf003m9
?
Newscast: Business news and stock report   

106 words
15 December 2000
Minnesota Public Radio: Marketplace Morning Report
MKMR
English
(c) Copyright 2000, Minnesota Public Radio. All Rights Reserved.   

CHERYL GLASER, anchor:   

A blizzard of profit warnings continues to fall on Wall Street. Warnings from  United Parcel Service, as well as from financial heavyweights  J.P. Morgan and Chase Manhattan that their earnings will be lower than expected, hit the stock market hard yesterday, sending the Dow Jones industrial average down 119 points, or 1.1 percent, to close at 10,674. The S&P 500 dropped 1.4 percent, while the NASDAQ plunged 3 1/3 percent. And the damage didn't stop there. After the market closed,  Microsoft released its first earnings warning in 10 years.   

Document MKMR000020070820dwcf0039l
?
 

Small Stock Focus
 Banking Woes Hit Small Stocks; Intermedia, Silicon Image Also Fall   

 By Karen Talley   
Dow Jones Newswires
819 words
15 December 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
C6
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

 NEW YORK -- George W. Bush is heading to the Oval Office, but Nasdaq and small-capitalization stocks fell back as a hoped-for presidential rally didn't materialize and financials joined technology as a softening sector.   

 Among small-cap brokerages, Raymond James (NYSE) fell $1.63, or 5%, to $29.56, Southwest Securities Group (NYSE) lost 94 cents to 22.69 and Morgan Keegan (NYSE) shed six cents to 18.56.   

 Among small-cap banks, Century South lost 94 cents to 30.38, Southwest Bancorp of Texas fell 1.50 to 37.06 and National Pennsylvania Bancshares dropped 38 cents to 19.50.   

 The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 94.26, or 3.34%, to 2728.51 and Russell 2000 small-cap index dropped 8.09, or 1.72%, to 461.82.   

 After the market closed, big Nasdaq stock Microsoft issued its own profit warning. But the banking sector's woes, and those of the larger market during regular trading hours, stemmed in part from earlier warnings from large banking stocks Chase Manhattan and J.P. Morgan.   

 Some investors hoped for a Bush rally, now that the presidential contest has been decided. But some strategists said the buying took place last week, in anticipation of an announcement, and yesterday served as an opportunity to "sell on the news."   

 Intermedia Communications plunged 5.25, or 43%, to 7. The Tampa long-distance phone and data communication-services provider received approval for its merger with WorldCom. But a court ruling questioned the fairness of a waiver WorldCom sought in connection with taking on Intermedia's 62%-owned interest in Digex, a Web-hosting concern. WorldCom shed 38 cents to 17.81 and Digex gained 2.19, or 7.5%, to 31.44.   

 Maxim Pharmaceutical plummeted 3.88, or 30%, to 9.25. The Food and Drug Administration unanimously rejected a new application of the San Diego drug developer's skin-cancer treatment.   

 Silicon Image fell 2.88, or 33%, to 5.75. The Sunnyvale, Calif., semiconductor-technology developer expects fourth-quarter earnings to miss estimates of one cent a share. Several analysts downgraded the stock.   

 C-Bridge Internet fell 44 cents, or 11%, to 3.38. The Cambridge, Mass., computer-software developer warned of a fourth-quarter loss of three cents to five cents a share. Analysts estimated profit of one cent a share. Robertson Stephens cut shares to buy from strong buy.   

 Tvia dropped 2.44, or 34%, to 4.69. The Santa Clara, Calif., communications-semiconductor maker was downgraded to buy from strong buy by Dain Rauscher. The investment firm remains enthusiastic about Tvia's long-term prospects, but feels operations may fall short of third-quarter estimates, said analyst Shekhar Wadekar.   

 Pinnacle Entertainment (NYSE) skidded 6.06, or 28%, to 15.31. The Glendale, Calif., casino operator's merger with Harvey's Casino Resorts has been postponed. Harvey's majority owner, Colony Capital LLC, was said to have offered $25 a share for Pinnacle in March.   

 Lindberg jumped 8.88, or 99%, to 17.81. The Rosemont, Ill., supplier of services to agricultural, transportation and construction original-equipment manufacturers agreed to be bought by Britain's Bodycote International PLC for $18.125 a share.   

 Equity Inns (NYSE) rose 63 cents, or 11%, to 6.38. The Germantown, Tenn., real-estate investment trust expects fourth-quarter funds from operations to beat estimates of 21 cents a share.   

 Verity spurted 3.88, or 21%, to 22.44. The Sunnyvale, Calif., management-software concern posted second-quarter net income of 23 cents a share, beating the consensus estimate by three cents.   

 United Dominion Industries (NYSE) lost 5.31, or 30%, to 12.19. The Charlotte, N.C., maker of pumps and valves to stabilize landfills sees fourth-quarter earnings falling about 20% below last year's earnings of 74 cents a share.   

 C-Cor.net shed 1.75, or 13%, to 11.56. The State College, Pa., designer of network distribution products warned that second-quarter revenue won't meet expectations and said it is cutting its work force by 25%.   

 Arvinmeritor (NYSE) dropped 25 cents to 9.50. The New York vehicle-parts supplier warned that first quarter and fiscal year earnings will fall short of Wall Street expectations because of a weakening demand from the auto industry.   

 Organic tumbled 16 cents, or 14%, to 1. The San Francisco Internet-services firm lowered its fourth-quarter revenue view to $26 million. The company will cut its work force by 25%. The moves will produce a restructuring charge of about $6 million to $8 million during the next two quarters.   

 On the Nasdaq, decliners led advancers 2,640 to 1,216 on overall volume of 1.75 billion shares. Two hundred and seventeen Nasdaq stocks marked new lows, while 36 reached new highs.   

Document j000000020010807dwcf00x11
?
 Business 
 Tech Slump Hits Asian Markets  

 Deborah Marchini, David Haffenreffer, Dalton Tanonaka  
707 words
15 December 2000
10:00
CNN: Ahead of the Curve
AHCV
English
 (c) Copyright eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.). All Rights Reserved.  

 Stock prices across Asia took substantial hits today in response to the overnight slump on the Nasdaq and corporate profit warnings, most significantly the one from Microsoft.  

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  

 RICK SHERLUND, GOLDMAN SACHS:  I think we're all going to be trying to guess what will the growth rate of PCs be next year and, therefore, just how exciting can we expect the Microsoft story to be; with a slower economy I think it's kind of a one-two punch.  You had Y2K and the hangover affect of that and now you've got a slower economy, I think it's going to be a tough year.  

 (END VIDEO CLIP)  

 DEBORAH MARCHINI, CNN ANCHOR:  A tough year for Microsoft makes for a tough day in the Asian markets.  

 DAVID HAFFENREFFER, CNN ANCHOR:  Dalton Tanonaka sums up the day in Asia from our studios in Hong Kong.  

 Hello, Dalton.  

 DALTON TANONAKA, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Good morning, David.  Good morning, Deborah.  

 Stock prices across Asia took substantial hits today in response to the overnight slump on the Nasdaq and corporate profit warnings, most significantly the one from Microsoft.  

 Tokyo stocks closed at their lowest level for the day, 14552, off 2 1/2 percent.  Among the heaviest losers were two tech counters (ph), Fujitsu sinking 11 percent, and Advantest down nearly six percent.  

 Telecom stocks dragged Hong Kong's Hang Seng index down 3 1/3 percent, that index closing at 14975, and is nearly three percent lower on the week.  Banking giant HSBC lost four percent, hit by a warning from the Bank of England on telecom sector credit risks, and compounded by a profit warning from merging U.S. banks J.P. Morgan and Chase Manhattan.  

 Taiwan traded in negative territory all day.  The tech-heavy Taiwan-weighted price index ending 1 3/4 percent weaker at 5224, it's second straight losing session.  Memory chip makers and computer maker Acer losing ground.  

 South Korea took a big step toward offering next generation wireless phone services.  The government awarded third-generation mobile phone licenses to SK Telecom and Korea Telecom, rejecting two others.  

 And that is the business and market day and week in Asia.  David and Deborah, back to you in New York.  

 MARCHINI:  Tech concerns are nothing new, Dalton.  How much does the Microsoft warning add to Asia's worries, considering we've already heard warnings from so many others in the business of buying Asian chips?  

 TANONAKA:  Well, Deborah, it's kind of like a rugby match.  It just piles on to the bodies, adds to the stream of negative news from the tech sector.  Electronics, as background, make up more than 40 percent of non-oil exports from most of the Asian economies.  So any global slowdown would hit growth in the region, particularly -- let me name you the countries it would hit: South Korea, Taiwan, Singapore, and the Philippines.  

 David and Deborah, back to you.  

 HAFFENREFFER:  All right, Dalton, thank you very much.  Dalton Tanonaka in Hong Kong.  

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 800-CNN-NEWS OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT  www.fdch.com

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.  

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.)  No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.'s copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material.  This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.  

Document ahcv000020010803dwcf000u6
?
 

 Microsoft  profit warning  spooks Wall Street 

680 words
15 December 2000
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 NEW YORK, Dec 15 (AFP) - Stocks closed broadly lower Friday after a rare profit warning from Microsoft intensified worries about a slowdown in the US economy. 

 The Nasdaq tumbled 75.27 points (2.76 percent) to close at 2,650.24 and the Dow Jones industrials slid 240.03 points (2.25 percent) to 10,434.96. 

 The broader Standard and Poor's 500 dropped 28.78 points (2.15 percent) to 1,312.15. 

 It was the second consecutive day of losses on Wall Street, after a slide Thursday for the Nasdaq of more than three percent and for the Dow of more than one percent. 

 In addition to the Microsoft warning, the market was affected by earnings warnings from three "old economy" shares -- Clorox, Black and Decker and Polaroid -- heavy sales of financial shares and by the volatility of the "triple witching" expirations of options and forwards contracts. 

 Losses were heaviest in the technology sector, but "old technology" shares  were impacted by concerns about a general economic slowdown. 

 Microsoft was down 6-5/16 to 49-3/16 after a warning late Thursday its quarterly earnings per share would be 46-47 cents against a First Call estimate of 49 cents. 

 The company conceded an overall slowing in the PC market exceeded its expectations. 

 Dealers said the Microsoft warning upset the market because it was the first negative profit pre-announcement from the technology bellwether in more than a decade, noting that the last such warning was made during a recessionary period. 

 Microsoft hurt the rest of the tech sector: IBM fell 4-5/8 to 87- 13/16, Hewlett Packard slid 1-7/8 at 31-5/8, Compaq 1.35 at 17.35, Dell 1/16 at 19-7/8 and Apple 3/8 at 14-1/16. 

 Sun Microsystems shed 1-1/4 at 30-7/8 after Bear Stearns reduced its rating on the company. 

 Bucking the trend, Oracle was up 1-1/16 at 28-9/16, after reiterating expectations that it would meet its earnings target. 

 Other issues reversed earlier losses on bargain-hunting. 

 Black and Decker rose 1/8 to 32-9/16, recovering from a low of 30- 1/8 after it cut its forecast for its fourth-quarter earnings. 

 Financial shares also rebounded from lows, after falling on Chase Manhattan and JP Morgan's recent profit-warnings. Chase rose 1 to 43- 15/16 and JP Morgan gained 2-1/16 to 160. 

 Elsewhere, Clorox slid 3-15/16 at 30-1/16 after warning that its second-quarter earnings would fall below last year's levels. 

 Polaroid was down 11/16 at 6-1/2, or 9.6 percent lower after warning that its fourth-quarter revenues would be down because of manufacturing problems. 

 Abbott Labs fell 1-5/16 at 46-13/16 after agreeing to acquire BASF's Knoll unit for about 6.9 billion dollars in cash. 

 Home Depot dropped 1-15/16 at 41-15/16 after Merrill Lynch cut estimates for the stock. 

 Investors looked to the bond market for safety, driving the yield on the 10-year Treasury bond to 5.172 percent from 5.227 percent Thursday and on the 30-year bond to 5.421 percent against 5.443 percent. A drop in yields reflects a rise in bond prices. 

 The bond market was reacting to growing signs of a US economic slowdown that is likely to lead the Federal Reserve to nominally shift its bias on interest rates, possibly cutting rates to help stimulate growth and avert a recession. 

 "Universal expectations, which we share, are that the Fed will move to a neutral bias," at its December 19 meeting, said Merrill Lynch chief economist Bruce Steinberg. 

 But if we were (Fed chairman Alan) Greenspan, we would actually ease (rates) that day." 

 "The FOMC meeting can't come fast enough. If they don't indicate some softening in their stance, the market will plunge," said a trader at  Swiss-American Securities. 

 cs/rl/lg 

Document afpr000020010803dwcf05bj0
?
 

 Euro flirts with 0.90-dollar threshold 

529 words
15 December 2000
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 LONDON, Dec 15 (AFP) - The euro flirted with 90 US cents for the first time for more than three months on Friday, rising strongly against the dollar which suffered from another weak performance on Wall Street. 

 The single European currency bought 0.8982 dollars from 0.8925 dollars overnight in New York. 

 The euro was also stronger against the Japanese currency, buying 101.11 yen from 100.22 yen in New York. The last time the euro traded above 100 yen was in August. 

 The dollar bought 112.55 yen from 112.06 yen overnight. 

 Analysts said the euro was cashing in on the continued weakness of the dollar, which is being sapped by fears of an economic slowdown in the United States and a protracted sell-off on Wall Street. 

 US stocks came a cropper again on Thursday, when the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 1.1 percent and the Nasdaq slumped 3.3 percent. 

 "We see further weakness in the dollar following another poor performance on the Wall Street," said Standard Chartered economist Mike Moran, adding that a profit warning from Microsoft "has given a dollar another blow." 

 The warning from the US software giant sent fresh jitters across equity markets on both sides of the Atlantic. Microsoft blamed weak global economic conditions and a slowdown in personal computer sales for the gloomier outlook. 

 But in Europe, closely-watched figures from Germany's Ifo think- tank on Friday suggested that the business outlook in the euro zone was slightly more rosy than had been expected, Moran said. 

 "We had a bit of data from Europe from the German Ifo, which is a business sentiment survey, and that was not as bad as expected. 

 "It was showing future expectations a little bit lower, but the current conditions still looking quite buoyant." 

 The recent slide in oil prices, which had been hampering growth in the euro zone, had also given the euro a boost, Moran said. 

 "Another development over the last day or so which is particularly important is the oil price and that has weakened significantly as well. 

 "Those factors are really giving the market a little bit more confidence in the euro," he said. 

 And he said that the single European currency was likely to break through 90 US cents for the first time since September 4 in the coming days. 

 "I think today (Friday) is important," he said. "We need to break above 90 (US cents) and hold. That would signal the market being more confident in the euro." 

 The euro was changing hands at 0.8982 dollars against 0.8925 dollars in New York on Thursday, 101.11 yen (100.22), 0.6094 pounds sterling (0.6054) and 1.5068 Swiss francs (1.5056). 

 The dollar was buying 112.55 yen (112.06) and 1.6774 Swiss francs (1.6864). 

 Sterling was being exchanged at 1.4741 dollars (1.4755), 165.99 yen (165.24) and 2.4739 Swiss francs (2.4856). 

 The price of an ounce of gold rose to 270.25 dollars on the London Bullion Market from 269.65 on Thursday. 

 mro-dr-mw/hd 

Document afpr000020010803dwcf05apt
?
 

 European stocks drift lower on raft of US profit warnings 

516 words
15 December 2000
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 LONDON, Dec 15 (AFP) - The main European stock markets slid further into loss on Friday in response to a lacklustre session overnight on Wall Street where investors fretted about a new spate of profit warnings. 

 In London, the FTSE 100 retreated 0.9 percent to 6,207.60 points. 

 Across the channel in Paris, the CAC-40 index shed 0.6 percent to 5,867.78 points. 

 Meanwhile in Frankfurt, the DAX index fell back 0.8 percent to 6,415.75 points. 

 For the 11-nation euro zone, the Euro Stoxx 50 index showed a loss of 0.6 percent at 4,781.51 points. 

 The euro itself flirted with 90 US cents before easing to 0.8982 dollars. 

 Investors had also trodden carefully in Asia, where the Nikkei- 225 closed down 2.5 percent in Tokyo and the Hang Seng dropped 3.4 percent in Hong Kong. 

 Technology stocks were on sale again after a weak performance by the US tech-rich Nasdaq which shed 3.3 percent on Thursday, when investors were shaken by a surprise profit warning from US software giant Microsoft. 

 Blue-chips fared better, but the Dow Jones Industrial Average nonetheless lost 1.1 percent. 

 The company blamed the gloomier outlook on weak global economic conditions and a slowdown in personal computer sales. 

 In London, fibre-optic communications group Bookham slumped eight percent to 1,081 pence, Baltimore Technologies shed 5.9 percent to 379 pence, while ARM Holdings dropped 5.2 percent to 568.5 pence. 

 British chemicals outfit Laporte topped the leader board here, jumping 15.6 percent to 689 pence after soon-to-merge German firms Degussa-Huels and SKW Trostberg said they had agreed to pay 1.362 billion pounds (2.58 billion euros) for the company. 

 But Degussa-Huels fell 2.5 percent to 34.50 euros in Frankfurt, while SKW Trostberg dropped 5.1 percent to 7.5 euros. 

 Rival chemicals group BASF added one percent to 46.57 euros after announcing it would sell its pharmaceutical operations to Abbott Laboratories of the United States for 6.9 billion dollars to concentrate on its chemical interests. 

 Among German technology stocks, software giant SAP was hardest hit by the profits warning from rival Microsoft, sliding 3.9 percent to 165.69 euros. 

 Industrial giant Siemens ceded two percent to 139.2 euros, chip- maker Infineon dropped 1.6 percent to 103.45 euros, electronic- components maker Epcos fell 1.5 percent to 103.10 euros. 

 Banking stocks slipped further on earnings concerns spurred on by profit warnings from US giants JP Morgan and Chase Manhattan on Thursday. Deutsche Bank dropped 1.3 percent to 85.59 euros in Frankfurt, while Dresdner Bank shed 1.4 percent to 45.18 euros. 

 In Paris, Societe Generale slipped a further three percent to 67.50 euros. 

 France Telekom retreated 3.9 percent to 98.45 euros, Cap Gemini slid 3.4 percent to 171.90 euros, while Thomson Multimedia fell 3.3 percent 46.67 euros. 

 dr/ns 

Document afpr000020010803dwcf05amf
?
 

 Nasdaq jitters unnerve investors. 

 By Azhar Khalid. 
502 words
15 December 2000
Straits Times
STIMES
English
(c) 2000 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

 INVESTORS spooked by the latest profit warning from the US - this time by computer maker Compaq - caused the benchmark Straits Times Index (STI) to fall below the 2,000-point support level yesterday. 

 They offloaded electronics and index-linked stocks after the 3.7 per cent overnight drop in the Nasdaq Composite Index on Wall Street, said dealers. 

 The STI lost all of the gains it chalked up on Wednesday to close at the day's low of 1,980.54, down 33.12 points or 1.6 per cent. 

 Most of the selling took place during the last hour of trade. 

 Dealers reckoned investors were squaring off positions in expectation of more losses in the US markets, following a weaker opening in the European markets and early losses in the Nasdaq Futures Index. 

 Nasdaq's fall was spurred by a profit warning from Compaq and negative comments by US analysts on the rapid pace of the US economy's slowdown. 

 News that Texas governor George W. Bush had finally won the US presidency failed to spur investor interest. 

 In the region, South Korea, Japan, Taiwan and Hongkong ended lower, pulled by losses in technology and telecom stocks. 

 'Resolving the presidency issue is only one part of the puzzle - there is still the bigger concern on the outlook of the US economy that continues to worry investors,' said an institutional buyer with a foreign brokerage in Singapore. 

 The electronics index was the biggest loser among sectoral indexes, falling 2.2 per cent to 147.25. 

 Multimedia giant Creative Technology and electronics firm Venture Manufacturing were the top two losers. Both lost 80 cents, ending at $21.40 and $14.90 respectively. 

 Plastics and metal parts manufacturer NatSteel Broadway was in the limelight on renewed speculation that the company had found a foreign suitor. 

 Its shares soared to a 12-month high of $3.90 in the morning but the overall weak market sentiment saw them falling back to close unchanged at $3.48. 

 The counter was the fifth most actively traded with 18.75 million shares changing hands, far exceeding the six-month average of 564,558 shares. 

 Replying to an exchange query, Natsteel Broadway said it was unaware of any reasons for the sharp movements. 

 Broadway's parent company, NatSteel, also said it was not in active discussions with any party, neither was there any interest indicated to acquire Broadway's shares. 

 NatSteel was among the day's biggest losers, falling six cents to $2.84. 

 Market volume fell to 324.7 million shares valued at $652.8 million from Wednesday's turnover of 377.6 million shares worth $775.1 million. 

 Printed circuit-board maker PCI was the top active for a second straight day. The stock rose five cents to $1.28 on talk that Chuan Hup Holdings had found a buyer for its stake. 

 Overall, losers beat gainers by 168 to 89. 

 Send your views to azhark@sph.com.sg. 

Document stimes0020010817dwcf00ku3
?
 

 Report on Business: Money & Markets 
 Big Five hit by U.S. banks' profit warnings Slowing economy, rate rises take toll on Chase Manhattan, J.P. Morgan bottom line 

 DAVE EBNER 
710 words
15 December 2000
The Globe and Mail
GLOB
Metro
B13
English
 All material copyright Thomson Canada Limited or its licensors. All rights reserved. 

 Canada's Big Five bank stocks took a hit yesterday after the second- and fifth-largest banks in the United States announced a profit warning. 

 Chase Manhattan Corp. and J.P. Morgan & Co. Inc., which Chase agreed to buy in September, both said they will miss analysts' expectations because of higher merger-related costs and lower trading revenue. The combination of a slowing economy, a series of interest rate increases whose impact is now visible and weak equity markets hurt Chase and J.P. Morgan. 

 The news comes a day after Charles Schwab Corp., the largest on-line broker in the United States, said it would struggle to make its fourth-quarter targets, bringing some to talk of an industry-wide slowdown. 

 Overshadowing this week's developments are continuing concerns about bad loans. Bank of America Corp., the biggest U.S. bank, warned earlier this month that its loan losses will be higher than expected, cutting into profits. 

 The Bank of England, for the second time in six months, warned yesterday that European and U.S. telephone companies' rising debt increases the chance of tumult in world equity and credit markets. 

 In early December, credit-rating agency Standard & Poor's Corp. said Toronto-Dominion Bank and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce had the highest exposure in the world to the telecom sector, relative to the two banks' size. The agency, however, said it doesn't believe the issue is a major problem. 

 North American banks fell across the board yesterday. On the New York Stock Exchange, Chase lost $1.56 (U.S.) to close at $42.94 and J.P. Morgan fell $6.31 and finished the day at $157.94. 

 Of the 24 members in the PHLX/KBW bank index, a broad measure of U.S. bank stocks, 21 lost value. 

 In Canada, the Big Five all declined. The Toronto Stock Exchange's banks and trusts index lost 3.5 per cent and is now 6.3 per cent off its 52-week high set on Nov. 7. CIBC gave up the most, falling $2.45 (Canadian) or 5.3 per cent to $43.55. 

 Murray Leith Jr., director of research at Odlum Brown in Vancouver, said the waters will be choppy for several months. 

 "The banking slowdown that we're seeing right now is a function of higher interest rates, higher energy prices and the carnage in the stock market," Mr. Leith said. "That will play out in the first half of next year and by that point the [U.S. Federal Reserve], I think, will probably be aggressively cutting interest rates. And that'll play into a brighter future for our banks and banking in North America in general." 

 Mr. Leith said the Big Five will be hit by the economic slowdown but argues their stocks aren't expensive. 

 "Like the banks south of the border, the banks are impacted by the same factors," Mr. Leith said. "Having said that, at about 11 times next year's earnings, domestic banks are pretty cheap." 

 Ross Healy, president of Strategic Analysis in Toronto, said that based on the past 50 years, the banks are not cheap, but expensive. 

 "From a historical point of view, the banks are quite extended as far as their traditional valuations are concerned." 

 Mr. Healy said difficult stock markets -- the Nasdaq Stock Market is down more than 40 per cent from its March peak -- have hurt the Big Five banks' investment dealers, on which they rely quite heavily for income and profit. 

 "A bear market of any duration would have a strongly negative and deleterious effect on the banks' profitability," Mr. Healy said. 

 Juliette John, a portfolio manager at Bissett Investment Management in Calgary, acknowledged a slowdown but said the Big Five banks have done a fine job of cost-cutting and should manage well in 2001. 

 She projects year-over-year profit growth to fall to 5 or 10 per cent, down from this year's growth rate in the high teens. 

 "They'll weather it fine," Ms. John said. 

 Illustration 

Document glob000020010806dwcf01mvo
?
 

 France Stocks Review - Nasdaq's woes drag down TMTs - CAC down 1.1%. 

139 words
15 December 2000
17:11
Futures World News
FWN
English
(c) Distributed via COMTEX News.

 Dec 15, 2000 (FWN Financial via COMTEX) - By Nicola Clark, BridgeNews 

 Paris-Dec. 15-French shares retreated again Friday, with technology, media and telecoms shares extending their morning losses as the U.S. Nasdaq index opened weaker after a profit warning from U.S. software giant Microsoft Corp. A handful of traditional titles advanced amid a general flight from the volatile "new economy" sector, but it was not enough to pull the CAC-40 benchmark of blue-chip shares out of the red. The index closed 1.12% lower at 5,839.54 points. 


		     *			*		     *




Volume was slightly above average, with a total of 4.03 billion euros worth of CAC-listed share" changing hands. Declining shares beat out advancers 25 to 14.



(C) Copyright 2000 FWN



.


Document fwn0000020010808dwcf00388
?
 

 FFBN Financials Wrap: Brokers, Banks Again Close Lower 

720 words
15 December 2000
22:38
Federal Filings Newswires
FF
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


ISSUER: FEDERAL FILINGS
SYMBOL: X.FFI
        WASHINGTON (FFBN)--The Federal Filings Banking and Brokerage indexes
again closed lower Friday as fourth quarter earnings concerns continued to
plague the broad market.



        The Federal Filings Banking Index dropped 0.9%, or 4,412.1, to
478,602.9, while our Brokerage Index declined 0.5%, or 1,140.1, to 235,055.1.
        Within the banking group, Chase Manhattan Corp. and J.P. Morgan & Co.
Inc. traded up after selling off Thursday as a result of their own fourth
quarter profit warning.  Chase added 2.5%, or $1.06, to $43.94, while J.P.
Morgan rose 1.3%, or $2.06, to $160.
        Western bank UnionBanCal Corp. slumped 10% after saying late
Wednesday that it will earn 1 cent a share in the fourth quarter because of a
credit loss provision of nearly $250 million.  Eleven analysts polled by
First Call/Thomson Financial expected the company to earn 80 cents a share in
the quarter.  UnionBanCal, which said the provision reflects weakening
business conditions and an "aggressive approach" to managing its loan
portfolio, fell $2.44 to $21.31.
        Because of UnionBanCal's decline, the Federal Filings subindex of
Western Banks dropped 4.1%, or 718.9, to 17,012.2.
        Insurers, likewise, posted declines, with the Federal Filings
Insurance Index slipping 0.8%, or 4,011.7, to 515,670.9.
        American Financial Group emerged as one exception to the downward
trend.  The company gained 17%, or $3.34, to $23, after saying it plans to
sell its Japanese division to Mitsui Marine & Fire Insurance Co. of America
for $22 million.  The company also said it raised its proposed offering of
stock to 7.25 million shares from 6.25 million and priced the offering at
$19.63 a share.
        Life insurance component Conseco Inc. also posted gains Friday on
news that it lowered its public and bank debt by $808.4 million.  Conseco
rose 0.7%, or 6 cents, to $9.
        In the broad markets, the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed down
240.03, or 2.3%, to 10,434.96, while the Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Market
ended down 28.78, or 2.2%, to 1,312.15.  The Nasdaq Composite Index also
closed lower, falling 75.24, or 2.8%, to 2,653.27.
COMPANY NEWS:
                                Net     Pct    EPS   EPS
FIRST TENNESSEE NATIONAL CORP.    Close   Change  Change   00E   01E
                         $25.06   +$0.06   +0.3% $1.74 $1.97
First Tennessee National Corp. signed a definitive agreement to sell its
Peoples & Union Bank unit, based in Lewisburg, Tenn., to First Farmers &
Merchants National Bank, based in Columbia, Tenn.  First Tennessee said it
expects to realize a $12 million pretax gain from the sale. The companies
expect to close the deal in the first quarter.  First Tennessee also said the
sale doesn't change its goal of meeting or exceeding market expectations for
earnings in 2001.
                                Net     Pct    EPS   EPS
NATIONAL CITY CORP.               Close   Change  Change   00E   01E
                         $25.38   -$0.25     -1% $2.16 $2.34
National City Corp. plans to close 69 Loan Zone retail stores in the U.S.,
and leave the auto leasing and wholesale loan origination businesses of its
Altegra unit.  The company expects to record a pretax charge of about $43
million to $46 million in the fourth quarter for severance costs and asset
writedowns.  A First Call/Thomson Financial survey of 19 analysts estimated
the company's fourth quarter earnings to be 55 cents a share.  The change is
expected to affect about 200 employees.
                                 Net     Pct    EPS   EPS
AMERICAN EXPRESS CO.             Close   Change  Change   00E   01E
                        $54.63   -$0.81   -1.5% $2.07 $2.35
American Express Co. plans to purchase the British online brokerage company
Sharepeople Group PLC for $44 million.  American Express is offering 17.5
pence per share for the issued shares, and exercisable share options and
warrants in Sharepeople.  American Express said the entry into the U.K.
market would complement its U.S. brokerage operations, which began in October
1999.  The move to acquire the brokerage and its 18,000 accounts is part of
the company's plan to expand products and services around the world.



17:38


Document ff00000020010806dwcf02au9
?
 

 US Junk Bonds: SpectraSite Prices $200M; No Deals On Tap 

237 words
15 December 2000
21:30
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- No junk bond deals are on tap for next week ahead of the holiday season, but SpectraSite Holdings Inc. (SITE) Friday priced a $200 million high-yield deal. 

 The Cary, N.C.-based communications firm, which builds, manages and leases towers, priced Rule 144a 10-year senior notes through lead manager CIBC World Markets. 

 The deal (B3/B-) was priced with a coupon of 12.50% at 95.958 to yield 13.25%. Price talk was in the 12.75% area. 

 The Spectrasite pricing ended a mixed week for the junk bond market, with one deal getting pulled earlier in the week and money continuing to flow out of high-yield mutual funds. 

 In the week ending Wednesday, junk bonds bled $10 million, according to fund tracker AMG Data Services. However, while this marked the 13th straight week of fund outflows, it was a big drop from the previous week's total of $200 million in outflows. 

 Fred Cavanaugh, high-yield portfolio manager at John Hancock Funds in Boston: "Nothing has changed, it's much of the same, more technical pressure rather fundamental, than anything else." 

 Overall, bids slightly dropped on the day, tracking the plunge in the Dow Jones Industrials, following Microsoft Corp.'s (MSFT) profitwarning. 


-By Tom Barkley, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-4385;
tom.barkley@dowjones.com


4053

Document dji0000020010805dwcf0631v
?
 

 WSJ.COM: Stocks Open Lower After Microsoft Warning 

641 words
15 December 2000
15:17
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   A WSJ.com News Roundup



NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Stocks opened lower Friday following a sales and
profit warning from Microsoft Corp.


 Minutes after the start of New York trading, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was down 110 points to 10565 after falling 119 previous session. The Nasdaq Composite Index was down 65.30 to 2663.20 after falling 94 on Thursday. Other major indexes were lower. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 16.90 to 1324, the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index sank 5 to 640.60, and the Russell 2000 Index of small-capitalization stocks fell 3.80 to 458. 

 Microsoft warned late Thursday that its quarterly sales and earnings would trail forecasts, becoming the latest casualty of the recent slump in demand for personal computers. It was the software firm's first profit warning in over 10 years. Shares of Microsoft fell $4.50 to $51.00, dragging down the industrial average. 

 In addition, Polaroid Corp. said early Friday that sales and earnings would be lower than expected in the fourth quarter as a slowing economy hurt shipments of the camera maker's traditional film lines. Polaroid fell 69 cents to $6.50. 

 Elsewhere, consumer energy prices stabilized in November as the slowing U.S. economy maintained a benign inflation performance. 

 The Labor Department said Friday that the Consumer Price Index increased 0.2% in November, as economists expected, following October's 0.2% advance. Core inflation pressures were slightly greater as a result of the biggest gain in tobacco prices since April. When food and energy are excluded, the CPI rose 0.3% last month, compared with a 0.2% rise in October. 

 About an hour before the opening bell on the New York Stock Exchange, futures on the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell in electronic trading, suggesting a 50-point decrease for the Dow Jones Industrial Average. 

 On Thursday, the Nasdaq Composite Index lost 94.26 points, or 3.3%, to 2728.51, while the Dow industrials fell 119.45 points, or 1.1%, to 10674.99. 

 Outside the U.S., European shares were sharply lower, following heavy losses on Wall Street Thursday amid more profit warnings. Asian-Pacific shares slumped, as technology stocks reacted to losses on the Nasdaq composite. Thai, Indonesian and Philippine stocks bucked the trend. 

 In other news, Abbott Laboratories said Friday that it agreed to buy the Knoll Pharmaceutical unit of German chemical giant BASF for $6.9 billion as part of an effort to boost its drug-research pipeline and increase its sales force. Shares of Abbott Labs were delayed early Friday on the New York Stock Exchange but recently were trading down $2.63 at $45.50. third-largest bank, were delayed. 

 Oracle posted earnings late Thursday that slightly exceeded forecasts for the fiscal second quarter, dodging the downturn affecting other technology firms. The software concern also said it would slightly increase targets for sales and earnings in the current quarter. Shares of Oracle were up $1.63 to $29.13 on the Nasdaq Stock Market. 


  In major U.S. market action:



Stocks were weak. On the Big Board, where 294 million shares traded,
497 stocks advanced and 1064 declined. On the Nasdaq market, 381 million
shares changed hands.



Bonds fell. Early Friday, the 10-year Treasury note fell 3/16 to yield
5.241%, while the 30-year bond was down 1/4 to yield 5.457%.



The dollar was mixed. It traded at 89.66 cents to the euro and 112.31
yen to the dollar, compared with 89.15 cents to the euro and 112.11 yen
to the dollar late Thursday in New York.
   For continuously updated news from The Wall Street Journal, see
WSJ.com at http://wsj.com.


Document dj00000020010805dwcf04p39
?
 

 Brazil's Real Early At BRR1.968/Dlr Vs BRR1.963 End Thu 

289 words
15 December 2000
12:19
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 RIO DE JANEIRO -(Dow Jones)- The Brazilian real opened weaker against the dollar Friday pressured by jitters in the U.S. stock market, which took another blow Thursday on negative corporate news. 

 "The market here is looking at international markets, and the real is a little bit pressured because of the Nasdaq yesterday," said a Sao Paulo-based trader. 

 The technology-heavy Nasdaq Composite Index finsihed the session 3.3% lower Thursday at 2729. 

 In a surprise profit warning by the world's software giant, Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) said Thursday that its quarterly profits would come in 5% to 6% below forecasts, dragged down by slumping sales. 

 The real started the session at a midrate of BRR1.968 per dollar on a BRR1.967-BRR1.969 spread and was unchanged at 1200 GMT. 

 Traders said the failed auction of Brazilian petrochemicals company Copanhia Petroquimica do Nordeste (E.CPQ), or Copene, had no impact on trading Friday. 

 "The real lost ground yesterday when the auction was suspended after the first court injunction, so any negative news on Copene was already priced in," a trader in Rio de Janeiro said. 

 Copene's sale got the green light late Thursday and went into the night after a court finally lifted injunctions blocking the auction. But the sale ended early Friday without a winner because controllers refused the bids presented, Brazil's central bank said. A date for a new auction hasn't been set yet. 

 Meanwhile, the central bank said the Ptax, which forms the basis for all futures contracts, was BRR1.9635. 

 -By Adriana Brasileiro, Dow Jones Newswires; (5521) 9965-1193, adriana.brasileiro@dowjones.com 

1156 1843

Document dj00000020010805dwcf04ouy
?
 

 SMARTMONEY.COM: Pre-Wedding Jitters At JP Morgan Chase 

935 words
15 December 2000
00:40
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- J. P. Morgan (JPM) and Chase Manhattan (CMB) may be planning a splashy New Year's Eve wedding, but they aren't doing a lot of celebrating these days. 

 In fact, things are looking downright depressing for the soon-to-be J.P. Morgan Chase. The banks jointly warned Thursday that fourth-quarter earnings for both institution wouldn't meet Wall Street expectations and would come in "substantially" under their respective third-quarter results. They cited trading and investment losses suffered during the market's steep decline this year, as well as higher-than-expected expenses. 

 The banks also announced they will lay off 5,000 workers following the merger's completion - about 2,000 more than they had originally anticipated. In a press release, the banks said the job cuts, which they euphemistically referred to as "merger synergies," would contribute to a $3 billion reduction in expenses for the new institution. Trouble is, the banks don't expect to start realizing any of those cost savings until the middle of next year at the earliest. 

 The warnings sent the stocks of both banks reeling. J.P. Morgan closed down 3.8% at $157.94. Chase's stock fell 3.7% to $42.88. Since J.P. Morgan is a Dow component stock, the profit warnings also weighed heavily on the Dow Jones Industrial Average, which fell 119 points to 10674. It didn't help that Citigroup (C), another Dow component, fell 4.3%, to $50.75, in sympathy. 

 The good news is that Chase Manhattan's vaunted credit quality remains intact. The banks aren't suffering the sort of credit woes that have dragged down other U.S. banks recently. Last week, Bank of America (BAC) issued a profit warning because of a rising number of bad loans on its books. It joined a list that includes First Union (FTU), Bank One (ONE) and Wachovia (WB). 

 Nevertheless, the warnings underscore a problem the combined companies will have to defeat over time if they want to post the kind of consistent earnings Wall Street rewards. J.P. Morgan and Chase are trying to transform themselves from giant commercial-lending institutions into investment banks. Indeed, one of the stated goals of the $28 billion merger is to position J.P. Morgan Chase as a global player in investment-banking work and as a competitor to Wall Street's titans like Goldman Sachs Group (GS) and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter (MWD). 

 Transforming from conservative lender to proprietary trader and deal maker, however, carries plenty of risks. Chief among them is the potential financial hit a firm can take when its equity traders and bankers place big bets on the wrong stocks and companies. For instance, the value of the stocks held by Chase's venture-capital group, Chase Capital Partners, has dropped more than $300 million this quarter alone. 

 Given that exposure, many market professionals say the bad news from J.P. Morgan and Chase shouldn't come as surprise to investors given the sharp downturn on Wall Street and the slowing economy. Banks, online brokerages and investment firms all are feeling the impact of a combination of higher interest rates, the bear market in technology stocks and declining trading activity. Merrill Lynch (MER) is raising some brokerage fees in order to fatten its bottom line. Investment bank Bear Stearns (BSC) and online brokerage Ameritrade Holding (AMTD) are both laying off personnel to cut costs. And Charles Schwab (SCH), the nation's biggest discount brokerage, says its fourth-quarter earnings may not meet analysts' estimates. 

 "Both Chase and J.P. Morgan have had the desire to look like investment banks and to do sexy things," says Howard Ward, a portfolio manager and financial-services analyst at Gabelli Asset Management. "Sometimes when you do sexy things they don't work out." Ward says Gabelli doesn't own shares in either bank precisely because of the volatility that attends financial firms with big capital-markets divisions. 

 Some analysts, like Tom Burnett, president of Merger Insight, a New York research firm, aren't so glum. Burnett believes that J.P Morgan Chase will be fine when the markets and the economy improve. And he's looking forward to when the cost-saving measures will kick in. "It's a short-term gyration," says Burnett. 

 Burnett also insists he's not worried about the merger deal. The Federal Reserve Board approved the merger on Monday and Burnett expects the shareholders of both banks to do the same, when they meet on Dec. 22. Burnett says he'd only be concerned about the merger if Chase's stock was to slip below $30 a share. Chase is the acquirer in the deal, even though the new bank will continue to use J.P. Morgan's ticker symbol on the New York Stock Exchange and J. P. Morgan's name will dominate in the new entity. 

 For all of Burnett's optimism, however, Thursday's news will likely weigh heavily on the stocks until something budges this market. Steven Eisman, a financial services analyst for CIBC World Markets, says he doesn't expect to see much upward improvement in the new bank's stock short term. Of course, if Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan comes to the rescue by lowering interest rates sometime soon, he could save the day for all bank stocks. But that remains a big if at this point. 

 For more information and analysis of companies and mutual funds, visit SmartMoney.com at http://www.smartmoney.com/

Document dj00000020010805dwcf04osd
?
 

 US Junk Bonds: SpectraSite Prices $200M; No Deals On Tap 

237 words
15 December 2000
21:30
Capital Markets Report
CM
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- No junk bond deals are on tap for next week ahead of the holiday season, but SpectraSite Holdings Inc. (SITE) Friday priced a $200 million high-yield deal. 

 The Cary, N.C.-based communications firm, which builds, manages and leases towers, priced Rule 144a 10-year senior notes through lead manager CIBC World Markets. 

 The deal (B3/B-) was priced with a coupon of 12.50% at 95.958 to yield 13.25%. Price talk was in the 12.75% area. 

 The Spectrasite pricing ended a mixed week for the junk bond market, with one deal getting pulled earlier in the week and money continuing to flow out of high-yield mutual funds. 

 In the week ending Wednesday, junk bonds bled $10 million, according to fund tracker AMG Data Services. However, while this marked the 13th straight week of fund outflows, it was a big drop from the previous week's total of $200 million in outflows. 

 Fred Cavanaugh, high-yield portfolio manager at John Hancock Funds in Boston: "Nothing has changed, it's much of the same, more technical pressure rather fundamental, than anything else." 

 Overall, bids slightly dropped on the day, tracking the plunge in the Dow Jones Industrials, following Microsoft Corp.'s (MSFT) profitwarning. 


-By Tom Barkley, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-4385;
tom.barkley@dowjones.com


4053

Document cm00000020010804dwcf00u9e
?
 Business 
 Asian Markets Update  

 David Haffenreffer, Deborah Marchini, Dalton Tanonaka  
726 words
15 December 2000
10:00
CNNfn: Business Day
BZZD
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved.  

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)  

 RICK SHERLUND, GOLDMAN SACHS:  I think we`re all going to be trying to guess what will the growth rate of PCs be next year and, therefore, just how exciting can we expect the Microsoft (URL:  http://www.microsoft.com/) story to be; with a slower economy I think it`s kind of a one-two punch.  You had Y2K and the hangover affect of that and now you`ve got a slower economy, I think it`s going to be a tough year.  

 (END VIDEO CLIP)  

 DEBORAH MARCHINI, CNNfn ANCHOR, AHEAD OF THE CURVE:  A tough year for Microsoft makes for a tough day in the Asian markets.  

 DAVID HAFFENREFFER, CNNfn ANCHOR, AHEAD OF THE CURVE:  Dalton Tanonaka sums up the day in Asia from our studios in Hong Kong.  

 Hello, Dalton.  

 DALTON TANONAKA, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT:  Good morning, David.  Good morning, Deborah.  

 Stock prices across Asia took substantial hits today in response to the overnight slump on the Nasdaq and corporate profit warnings, most significantly the one from Microsoft.  

 Tokyo stocks closed at their lowest level for the day, 14552, off 2 1/2 percent.  Among the heaviest losers were two tech counters (ph), Fujitsu (URL:  http://www.fujitsu.co.jp/index-e.html) sinking 11 percent, and Advantest down nearly six percent.  

 Telecom stocks dragged Hong Kong`s Hang Seng index down 3 1/3 percent, that index closing at 14975, and is nearly three percent lower on the week. Banking giant HSBC (URL:  http://www.hsbc.com/) lost four percent, hit by a warning from the Bank of England on telecom sector credit risks, and compounded by a profit warning from merging U.S. banks J.P. Morgan (URL:  http://www.jpmorgan.com/) and Chase Manhattan (URL:  http://www.chase.com/) .  

 Taiwan traded in negative territory all day.  The tech-heavy Taiwan- weighted price index ending 1 3/4 percent weaker at 5224, it`s second straight losing session.  Memory chip makers and computer maker Acer losing ground.  

 South Korea took a big step toward offering next generation wireless phone services.  The government awarded third-generation mobile phone licenses to SK Telecom (URL:  http://www.sktelecom.com/) and Korea Telecom (URL:  http://www.kt.co.kr/) , rejecting two others.  

 And that is the business and market day and week in Asia.  David and Deborah, back to you in New York.  

 MARCHINI:  Tech concerns are nothing new, Dalton.  How much does the Microsoft warning add to Asia`s worries, considering we`ve already heard warnings from so many others in the business of buying Asian chips?  

 TANONAKA:  Well, Deborah, it`s kind of like a rugby match.  It just piles on to the bodies, adds to the stream of negative news from the tech sector.  Electronics, as background, make up more than 40 percent of non-oil exports from most of the Asian economies.  So any global slowdown would hit growth in the region, particularly -- let me name you the countries it would hit: South Korea, Taiwan, Singapore, and the Philippines.  

 David and Deborah, back to you.  

 HAFFENREFFER:  All right, Dalton, thank you very much.  Dalton Tanonaka in Hong Kong.  

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM  

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.  

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc.  ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by eMediaMillWorks, Inc.  (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.)  No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.  

Document bzzd000020010804dwcf002az
?
 

 Global banking news socks Canadian bank stocks. 

276 words
14 December 2000
18:58
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 TORONTO, Dec 14 (Reuters) - Canadian bank stocks, led by Toronto-Dominion Bank , crumbled more than 2 percent on Thursday on news that some international banks were downgraded and profit warnings from Wall Street bank stalwarts Chase Manhattan Corp. . and J.P. Morgan & Co. Inc. 

 Overall, the bank-heavy financial services sector on the Toronto Stock Exchange was down 2.21 percent in early afternoon trading. 

 Toronto-Dominion Bank was down 4.5 percent, or C$1.90, at C$40.30. Bank of Montreal fell C$1.80, or 2.4 percent, to C$73.90. 

 Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce was down C$1.30 to C$44.70, and Bank of Nova Scotia was off C$1.25 to C$40.60. National Bank of Canada drooped 75 Canadian cents to C$25.90, and Royal Bank of Canada sagged C$1 to C$47. 

 "If there's any specific news, I think it would relate to the fact that Chase and J.P. Morgan preannounced their numbers and there were also some downgrades on some international banks," said Kevin Lampo, analyst at Edward Jones. 

 "People are taking profits," he added. 

 Chase and J.P. Morgan, which expect to close their $28.5 billion merger by year end, blamed weak capital markets and higher expenses for the fourth-quarter profit warning. They also said they would cut more than the 3,000 jobs reported at the time of the merger announcement in September. 

 Several European banks, including Deutche Bank and ABN AMRO, were downgraded, adding to the sour financial services stock environment. 

 ($1=$1.52 Canadian). 

Document lba0000020010821dwce0aatj
?
 

 UPDATE 2-Chase, JP Morgan see weak profits, to cut 5,000 jobs. 

 By Brian Kelleher 
751 words
14 December 2000
15:45
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 14 (Reuters) - Merger partners Chase Manhattan Corp. and J.P. Morgan & Co. Inc. on Thursday said they plan to cut 5,000 jobs and forecast fourth-quarter profits substantially below Wall Street estimates because of weak trading revenues, higher expenses and investment losses. 

 The New York-based banks, which expect to close their $28.5 billion merger by year end, confirmed reports they were going to eliminate more than the 3,000 jobs previously estimated. The banks now see cost savings of $3 billion, up from their previous estimate of $1.9 billion. 

 The banks, which together will employ 95,000 people, are cutting jobs amid record bonuses for Wall Street workers this year. The U.S. securities industry posted higher earnings in the first nine months of this year alone than all of 1999. Almost all companies tie their bonuses to profitability. 

 Chase shares were off $2-11/16 at $41-13/16 in trading on the New York Stock Exchange, a 6 percent decline. J.P. Morgan shares were off $9-5/8, or nearly 6 percent, at $154-5/8. 

 Chase, the No. 3 U.S. bank holding company, said in September that it would acquire J.P. Morgan, a commercial and investment bank, in a stock deal then worth about $35 billion. The deal will move Chase into the company of a handful of powerful global players dominating the securities industry. 

 "The current outlook is certainly more challenging than we might have hoped for," Marc Shapiro, Chase's vice chairman of finance, said in a conference call. 

 Weak trading results, a drop in the value of the banks' investments in public companies and higher expenses contributed to the earnings shortfalls, he said. 

 Chase and J.P. Morgan said they anticipate that the combined company will take a charge of about $1.2 billion at the closing of the merger. The balance of one-time costs from the transaction would be expensed over the two years following the closing of the deal, they said. 

 The companies did not disclose per-share numbers in their fourth-quarter profit warning. Analysts' consensus earnings forecasts are 78 cents a share for Chase and $2.62 per share for J.P. Morgan, according to data compiled by market research firm First Call/Thomson Financial. Chase and J.P. Morgan said they plan to issue a joint earnings statement for the fourth quarter on Jan. 17. TRADING REVENUES AND STOCK PORTFOLIO DOWN, EXPENSES HIGHER 

 A slump in corporate bonds, low volatility in credit markets and a decline in customer volumes will cut into quarterly trading revenues at both firms, Shapiro said. 

 Chase also blamed its venture capital unit, Chase Capital Partners, for the lower results. 

 "While the investments of this portfolio still have a value that is more than three times what we paid for them as private investments, they have declined in value since Sept. 30 and we are required to record that decline in value through our earnings," Shapiro told analysts and reporters in the call. 

 The publicly traded portion Chase Capital Partners' portfolio fell more than $300 million in value during the quarter, the firms noted. 

 Chase's acquisitions of British investment firm Flemings and West Coast investment bank Hambrecht & Quist included guaranteed compensation packages, Shapiro said. These costs became glaring as revenues dropped, he added. 

 "We have taken a close look in expenses," he told reporters and analysts in on the call. "We will be in a position of market leadership and not needing to continue to build our platform we believe that we can hold expenses flat for next year on a pro forma basis." 

 The companies will increase their provision for bad loans due to higher commercial charge-offs. But the provisions won't cut into earnings, they said. This contrasts with warnings by other commercial banks, including Bank of America Corp., about bad loans hitting future profits. 

 In the fourth quarter, special items at Chase will include an $870 million pre-tax gain on the sale of its Hong Kong-based retail banking business, while special items at J.P. Morgan will include a $400 million pre-tax gain on the termination of its operating agreement with Euroclear, the companies said. 

 The Federal Reserve Board approved the banks' merger on Dec 11. Shareholders will meet on Dec. 22 to approve the deal, the companies said. 

Document lba0000020010821dwce0aak1
?
Newscast: Market numbers   

135 words
14 December 2000
Minnesota Public Radio: Marketplace Morning Report
MKMR
English
(c) Copyright 2000, Minnesota Public Radio. All Rights Reserved.   

CHERYL GLASER, anchor:   

Now that the election stalemate's been resolved, investors can focus on problems closer to home. And that's exactly what they did yesterday. A warning from personal computer maker Compaq that its earnings will be lower than expected revived Wall Street's corporate profit fears and sent the NASDAQ, with its load of technology stocks, tumbling more than 3.7 percent. The S&P 500 fell 8/10ths of 1 percent. But in spite of the barrage of selling, the Dow Jones industrial average managed to hold its ground, and it even gained 26 points or 1/4 of 1 percent to end the day at 10,794. Bond prices got a big boost, pushing the yield on the 10-year Treasury down to 5.24 percent.   

Document MKMR000020070820dwce0039b
?
 

Nation/World
BUSINESS
NATION WORLD

Associated Press, Bloomberg News, and Reuters   
935 words
14 December 2000
Charlotte Observer (NC)
CLTO
ONE-THREE
1D
English
Copyright 2000 The Charlotte Observer. All rights reserved.   

Time Warner, AOL await decisive vote

Nearly a year after announcing the biggest merger in U.S history, America Online and Time Warner await a decisive vote today by antitrust regulators, who have raised concerns that the deal - now worth $111 billion - could limit consumer access to the riches of the Internet.

The companies already have agreed to conditions aimed at preventing the combined companies' total domination of the developing online world, steps that could win over a majority of the five-member Federal Trade Commission.

- Associated Press

*

Lucent Technologies may be a takeover target, analyst says

Lucent Technologies Inc., the world's No. 1 maker of phone equipment, may be a takeover target with its shares trading near a three-year low, a Merrill Lynch & Co. analyst said Wednesday.

Lucent shares rose $1.25, or 6.7 percent, to $19.94, the highest in three weeks. The stock rose 12 percent Tuesday on speculation Lucent may be acquired by Nokia.

The shares have tumbled 72 percent this year as Lucent slashed four quarters of profit estimates, ousted its chief executive and started an accounting investigation for possible irregularities.

Analyst Michael Ching wrote in a note to clients that Lucent may be a target because it's trading for less than it's worth. He valued the company at $27 a share: $18 for Agere Systems Inc., the semiconductor and fiber-optic components unit Lucent plans to spin off, and $9 a share for the businesses it's keeping.

- Bloomberg News

*

Tech stocks fall as early rally gives way to growth concerns

Technology stocks fell Wednesday as an early relief rally on the expected end of the five-week legal fight for the presidency gave way to concerns about the tech sector's growth prospects.

Stocks shot higher at the opening, but the gains faded through the trading day, leaving the Nasdaq Composite Index with a drop of 109 points, or 3.72 percent, to 2,822.77.

The Dow Jones industrial average managed to post a modest gain of 26.17 points, or 0.24 percent, to 10,794.44.

The benchmark Standard & Poor's 500 index shed 11.20 points, or 0.82 percent, to close at 1,359.98.

"Maybe the bigger picture for today is that the market's already priced in the Bush win, and you're seeing earnings taking center stage again," said Weatherly Securities chief investment strategist Barry Hyman.

Microsoft Corp. was hit by a downgrade from investment house Prudential Securities, dropping $1.13 to $57.25. Earlier, the stock was up on hopes Bush will have a more relaxed approach to the antitrust issues plaguing the software giant.

Compaq Computer Corp., the world's No. 1 personal computer maker, fell $2.67, or nearly 13 percent, to $18.10 after warning after Tuesday's closing bell that it would miss quarterly sales and profit targets because of decreased demand.

- Reuters

*

Falling sales, rising costs lead to cuts at Whirlpool

Whirlpool Corp. plans to cut as many as 6,000 jobs, or 10 percent of its work force, and fourth-quarter profit will miss analysts' estimates because appliance sales fell and costs rose.

The biggest U.S. maker of appliances hasn't determined the exact number and timing of the job cuts. Whirlpool will take $300 million to $350 million in restructuring charges next year.

Chairman David Whitwam tried and failed to boost sales at traditional appliance sellers such as Sears after Circuit City decided to exit the appliance business in July. Consumers instead turned to low-price chains such as Wal-Mart, which gets appliances from Maytag and General Electric

Fourth-quarter earnings will be about 98 cents a share, much lower than the $1.42 forecast.

- Bloomberg News

*

In Brief

CORNING INC. announced it will spend $150 million to expand a Pennsylvania manufacturing plant and add 1,500 jobs by fall 2002. With the additional workers, the company will employ a total of 2,500 at the Benton Township plant, which makes optical amplifiers used in telecommunications systems. The news comes a week after Corning Inc. announced it would spend $450 million to expand its Concord-area optical fiber plant.

ENRON CORP. named Jeffrey Skilling as its chief executive officer, promoting a manager who helped make the Houston-based gas pipeline company into the largest competitor in the growing energy trading business. Skilling, now president and chief operating officer, succeeds Ken Lay, 58. Lay said he will remain as chairman, a position he has held since 1986, and has no plans to serve in the presidential administration of Texas Gov. George W. Bush, as some news reports suggested.

GENERAL MOTORS CORP. named John Devine its new chief financial officer Wednesday, a day after announcing it will phase out its Oldsmobile brand and cut thousands of jobs to reduce costs. Devine, a former CFO at GM's rival Ford Motor Co., will officially begin Jan. 1. The 56-year-old, who was also named vice chairman, also has been chairman and chief executive of Fluid Ventures, an electronic-commerce investment company.

INTEL CORP. will cut its capital spending by as much as 38 percent next year as weak personal-computer demand forces the No. 1 chipmaker to delay plans for new plants, an analyst said. Intel may reduce spending to $4 billion in 2001 from the $6.5 billion the company has said it will invest this year, said Prudential Securities Inc. analyst Shekhar Pramanick, who covers companies that build Intel's manufacturing tools.

Document CLTO000020090630dwce01erp
?
Newscast: Business news and stock report   

549 words
14 December 2000
CBS News: Morning News
CBSM
English
(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

JULIE CHEN, anchor:   

On Wall Street, stocks ended mixed on Wednesday. The Dow gained 26 points to finish at 10,794.   

(Graphic on screen)   

DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS   

10,794.44 up 26.17   

Volume: 1,195,180,000   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

CHEN: The NASDAQ lost 109 points, closing at 2,822.   

(Graphic on screen)   

NASDAQ   

2,822.77 down 109.00   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

CHEN: In Tokyo, the Nikkei index was down 1 1/2 percent.   

(Graphic on screen)   

TOKYO NIKKEI AVERAGE   

14,927.19 down 241.49   

CHANGE down 1.59%   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

CHEN: On the CBS MarketWatch, a few stocks take a Bush bounce. Others are still subject to earnings worries. Alexis Christoforous has details.   

ALEXIS CHRISTOFOROUS reporting:   

The curtain has come down on the presidential election, so investors now turn their focus back to earnings and the slowing economy. In the words of one trader, there's fear we may go from concession to recession. Companies including  Exxon Mobil, Philip Morris and  Pfizer all felt the effects of a Bush bounce. Analysts say energy, tobacco and drug companies may face less legislation under a Bush administration.   

(Graphic on screen)   

BUSH BOUNCE   

EXXON MOBIL (XOM) up 1.12 59 87.69   

PHILIP MORRIS (MO) up 1.94 to 40.81   

PFIZER (PFE) up 1.81 to 45.81   

CHRISTOFOROUS: But that nasty profit warning from  Compaq Computer sparks selling in the tech arena.   

(Graphic on screen)   

COMPAQ COMPUTER (CPQ)   

down 2.67 to 18.10   

CHRISTOFOROUS: Outside of tech, Whirlpool warned that earnings will fall short and said it will cut about 6,000 jobs as part of a restructuring.   

(Graphic on screen)   

WHIRLPOOL (WHR)   

down 2.75 to 41.44   

CHRISTOFOROUS: Shares of Lucent soared 8 percent. That's after a  Merrill Lynch analyst said the telecom giant could be a takeover target due to its depressed stock price.   

(Graphic on screen)   

LUCENT TECHNOLOGIES (LU)   

up 1.25 to 19.94   

CHRISTOFOROUS: Lucent has jumped nearly 40 percent in the past four sessions.   

Retailers including  Wal-Mart, Sears and Target had a pretty tough day.   

(Graphic on screen)   

RETAIL SLUMP   

WAL-MART (WMT) down 1.56 to 50.31   

SEARS (S) down 1.39 to 34.38   

TARGET (TGT) down .31 to 32.25   

CHRISTOFOROUS: That's after a report showed retail sales unexpectedly fell 4/10ths of a percent in November. That's the first drop in seven months and a pretty sour start to the key holiday shopping season. Economists say worries over heating costs this winter and the declining stock market have suddenly made Americans very cautious.   

Later today, we'll get more clues on the economy with the Producer Price Index. That measures inflation at the wholesale level. And the networking giant  Oracle will release earnings after the closing bell.   

And with the election behind us, the next main event for the markets will be next Tuesday's Federal Reserve meeting on interest rates.   

At the NASDAQ market site, I'm Alexis Christoforous, CBS MarketWatch.   

CHEN: For the latest on the markets, click on cbs.marketwatch.com.   

Straight ahead on the MORNING NEWS, your Thursday morning forecast. And in sports, Kobe Bryant and the slumping Lakers hit another bump in the road at Portland.   

(Announcements)   

Document CBSM000020070818dwce003cm
?
 

 Techs stocks sink with concerns over growth. 

834 words
14 December 2000
The Scotsman
SC
10
English
(c) 2000

 TECHNOLOGY stocks were marked down sharply yesterday as a rally earlier in the day, based on the expected end this morning of the five-week legal fight for the United States presidency, gave way to concerns about the sector's growth prospects. 

 A ruling by the US Supreme Court late on Tuesday appeared to dash the presidential hopes of the Democratic candidate, Vice President Al Gore. By the time the market closed last night, Democrats were said to be braced for Gore to announce early this morning the end of his campaign for the US presidency, allowing Republican George W Bush to claim the White House. 

 Stocks had shot higher at the opening of trading, but the gains faded through the day, leaving the Nasdaq Composite Index with a drop of 114.36 points to close at 2,748.85. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial average managed to post a modest gain of 26.17 points, or 0.24 per cent, to close at 10,794.44. 

 In early trading, the Dow Jones had jumped nearly 150 points, and managed to finish in the black, boosted by gains in the shares of Philip Morris, AT&T and J P Morgan & Co., JPM N and Alcoa. 

 "Maybe the bigger picture for today is that the market's already priced in the Bush win, and you're seeing earnings taking centre stage again," said Weatherly Securities chief investment strategist Barry Hyman. "We've been ignoring these downgrades, and today we're not ignoring them." 

 Microsoft was hit by a downgrade from investment house Prudential Securities. Earlier, the stock was up on hopes that Bush will have a more relaxed approach to the antitrust issues plaguing the software giant. 

 Compaq, the world's number one personal computer maker, fell 2.67, or nearly 13 per cent, to $18.10 on the New York Stock Exchange after warning after Tuesday's closing bell that it would miss quarterly sales and profit targets due to decreased demand. 

 Sun Microsystems fell $2-1/8 to $31-3/4, after slumping to a fresh year low of $31-1/2 earlier in the session. The company, which has lost about 30 per cent of its value in a week, had denied it faced accounting problems. But analysts have questioned its growth prospects. 

 Ahead of the opening of trading, a report showing US retail sales had been surprisingly soft last month raised expectations for a near-term cut in interest rates by the US central bank. 

 Sales at US retail stores unexpectedly weakened in November as the key Thanksgiving-to-Christmas shopping season opened, dragged down by the sharpest drop in new-car sales in more than two years, the US Commerce Department said. 

 The Department said retail sales tumbled 0.4 percent in November, compared to a downwardly revised reading in October. Economists in a recent Reuters poll had expected 0.1 percent growth in sales in November. 

 "It is a signal the Fed is likely to move sooner rather than later," said Paul Christopher, an economist at A.G. Edwards & Sons Inc. "We're expecting a bias change to 'neutral' next week, and we expect a rate cut probably in January. The numbers today raise the odds of a rate cut in January." 

 Investors reacted tepidly to a seeming end to the marathon US presidential race, after many had placed bets for days on a Bush victory. 

 "Closure [in the election] means we can move forward," said Arthur Hogan, chief market analyst at Jefferies & Co. 

 "It is a signal the Fed is likely to move sooner rather than later," said Paul Christopher, an economist at AG Edwards & Sons Inc. "We're expecting a bias change to 'neutral' next week, and we expect a rate cut probably in January. The numbers today raise the odds of a rate cut in January." 

 That buoyed interest rate-sensitive financial stocks. JP Morgan rose 4-3/16 to 162-5/8. American Express added 7/16 to 56-5/8. 

 Appliance maker Whirlpool said its earnings will fall short of expectations and announced it will cut about 6,000 jobs, or 10 percent of its workforce, in a restructuring that could lead to charges next year of up to $350 million. Whirlpool stock fell 3-7/16, or almost 8 percent, to 40-3/4. 

 Cigarette maker Philip Morris gained on the near certainty of a Bush victory, hitting a fresh high. 

 At 10:20am EST (1520 GMT), 10-year Treasury notes rose 9/32 from Tuesday's 5pm close to 103-8/32. Their yield, which moves inversely to price, fell to 5.32 per cent. Thirty-year bonds rose 10/32 to 110-21/32, yielding 5.51 per cent. 

 Two-year notes were flat at 100-6/32, yielding 5.52 per cent, and five-year notes gained 5/32 to 101-31/32 to yield 5.29 per cent. 

Document sc00000020010816dwce00sn4
?
 

 Europe Bk Shrs Burned By Pft Warning, Goldman Downgrade 

 By Anita Greil 
669 words
14 December 2000
21:09
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES 

 ZURICH -(Dow Jones)- Events on both sides of the Atlantic conspired Thursday to knock European bank stocks off their feet, dashing hopes that the sector could pull leading indexes to strong year-end finishes. 

 The first blow came from London, where investment bank Goldman Sachs downgraded five leading European banks. Further bad news erupted before the markets opened in New York, when merger partners Chase Manhattan Corp. (CMB) and J.P. Morgan & Co. (JPM) issued a fourth-quarter profitwarning. 

 Coming on the heels of a Wednesday's warning from the Bank of England on the concentration of lending to the troubled telecommunications sector, the market?s reaction was swift: Credit Suisse Group (Z.CSG) slid 5.7%, ABN Amro Holding NV (ABN) dropped 5.4%, Germany?s Deutsche Bank (G.DBK) tumbled 5.% and France?s Societe Generale (F.SGE) fell 4.8%. The Dow Jones Stoxx banking sector index ended the day 2.6% lower. 

 ?This really puts a damper on sentiment - financials were supposed to be a sector that would lead our year-end index rise,? said a trader at a major German bank. ?So much for that.? 

 Even worse, some felt that the sector's deterioration could linger for months, given mounting apprehension over the U.S. economic performance and banks? loan exposure there. 

 ?There are real concerns over credit levels, especially with the amount of lending to the telcos in this new-economy era,? said Mark Durling, an analyst at London-based brokerage Brewin Dolphin. ?There is great pressure on the banks to chase new business, but margins are being squeezed which is causing these concerns.? 

 Those concerns have recently prompted Merrill Lynch to suggest a cautious stance on the weighting of bank stocks in portfolios until evidence emerges that global interest rates are headed lower. 

 Exposure To Equity Markets A Boost In Fourth Quarter 

 However, the reasons behind the profit warning from Chase and J.P. Morgan were unique to the U.S. or to the banks themselves, which recently announced merger plans. 

 But the warning ?at least raises the issue again how investment banking earnings for the fourth quarter may turn out,? John Leonard, analyst at Salomon Smith Barney said. Low volatility in currency markets, wider credit spreads and a decline in customer volume are at the core of the expected drop in trading revenues, the banks said. 

 The foreign exchange and fixed income markets ?were probably fairly tough for a lot of people,? Salomon?s Leonard acknowledged. 

 Still, he remains optimistic on Deutsche Bank and UBS AG (Z.UBS). Both are strong players in equity markets, an area where Chase is weak. Over the fourth quarter, equity markets were ?probably even stronger than in the third,? which is likely to offset weak revenues in fixed income, he said. 

 Goldman Sachs provided a prelude to Thursday's profit warning by downgrading its rating on several European banks earlier in the day. Goldman said banks' fourth-quarter forecasts are out of whack with weak trends in the capital markets and cited possible higher U.S. loan-loss provisions next year. 

 The investment bank lowered its ratings on ABN Amro, BNP Paribas (F.BNP), Credit Lyonnais SA (F.CLC), Deutsche Bank and Societe Generale. It noted the price gap between these institutions and their U.S. counterparts. 

 Thursday's events were preceded Wednesday by the Bank of England's warning that risks to U.K. and world financial stability have increased in the last six months. In addition to stock market volatility, the BoE cited the steady buildup of debt in the telecommunications sector as the main causes for concern. 

 Indeed, banks in countries where third generation mobile phone licenses went for a high price are likely to face a bumpy ride as concerns about exposure to telecom companies rise. 

 -By Anita Greil, Dow Jones Newswires; +41 1 211 6588; anita.greil&#174;dowjones.com 

Document dji0000020010805dwce0607e
?
 

 European Bank Shrs Fall On Chase Warning,Goldman Fallout 

680 words
14 December 2000
13:32
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 By Anita Greil 

 of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES 

 Zurich (Dow Jones)--European banking stocks have plunged Thursday after a fourth-quarter profit warning from Chase Manhattan Corp. and J.P. Morgan & Co. (JPM). 

 The joint announcement follows one from Bank of America late last week, and had a similar negative effect on other banking-sector shares on the continent. 

 Citing a difficult capital markets environment and higher expenses, merger partners Chase Manhattan and J.P. Morgan & Co. (JPM) Thursday said they expect fourth-quarter earnings to be lower than analysts' estimates and third- quarter earnings. 

 They said they expect total trading revenue to decline in the fourth quarter from the third quarter and the year ago third quarter because of a low volatility in currency markets, wider credit spreads and a decline in customer volume. 

 In Europe, Swiss banks were among those hit hardest by the latest profit warning. That's because both Credit Suisse Group (Z.CSG) and UBS AG (Z.UBS) have greatly increased their U.S. exposure this year through the acquisitions this year of Donaldson, Lufkin and Jenrette and PaineWebber, respectively. 

 UBS plunged as much as 3.6% Thursday, while Credit Suisse dropped up to 4.8% in heavy volume trading shortly after the midday announcement. Both shares made up some of their losses in early afternoon trading, as investors spotted buying opportunities. 

 Both issues carry more "buy" than "sell" ratings, particularly UBS, thanks to the perception that fundamentals are strong. 

 Credit Suisse is more exposed to the technology, media and telecommunications market and also to the high-yield bond market than UBS. Combined with the perception that its DLJ acquisition is less successful than UBS's buy of PaineWebber, the stock is thus more vulnerable to the downside, market watchers said. 

 At 1250 GMT, UBS was down CHF8 at CHF255.50, while Credit Suisse fell CHF12.50 to CHF313.50. 

 Both Swiss banks declined to comment on performance in the fourth quarter. 

 UBS will release fourth-quarter and full-year earnings data on Feb. 22 and Credit Suisse on March 13. 

 It wasn't the profit warning alone that hit European banking shares Thursday. Goldman Sachs lowered the rating of several European banks earlier in the day, citing concern that current bank forecasts are too high in the light of weak capital market trends in the fourth quarter and possible higher U.S. loan loss provisions for next year. 

 The investment bank lowered the ratings of ABN Amro Holding NV (ABN), BNP Paribas SA (F.BNP), Credit Lyonnais SA (F.CLC), Deutsche Bank AG (G.DBK) and Societe Generale de France (F.SGE) 

 European banks couldn't escape the fallout and the Dow Jones Stoxx banking sector indicator dropped 2.3% on the news. 

 "There are real concerns over credit levels especially with the amount of lending to the telcos in this new economy era. There is great pressure on the banks to chase new business but margins are being squeezed which is causing these concerns," said Brewin Dolphin's Mark Durling. 

 The banking sector as a whole was due for a downward correction, he said. Yet, further consolidation in the sector may provide support, he added. 

 In France, BNP Paribas fell 4.3%, Societe Generale plunged 4.1% and Credit Lyonnais -2.3% shed. 

 In Germany, Deutsche Bank led banking stocks lower, shedding 5.4%, or EUR4.90, to EUR86.40, while Dresdner Bank (G.DRS) was down 2.6%, or EUR1.24, at EUR46. 

 "This really puts a damper on sentiment, financials were supposed to be a sector that would lead our year-end index rise. So much for that," a trader at a major German bank said. 

 Yet, Bayerische HypoVereinsbank (G.BHV) bucked the trend, and increased 0.5% or 28 cents to EUR58.80 on the back of a reshuffle in DAX-30 listed stock weightings, which is expected to benefit the Munich-based bank. 

 -By Anita Greil, Dow Jones Newswires; +41 1 211 6588; 

 anita.greil@dowjones.com 

Document dji0000020010805dwce05z8n
?
 

 US STOCKS TO OPEN FIRM - BUSH SECTORS STRG BUT LITTLE SPILLOVER. 

273 words
13 December 2000
14:19
Market News International
MARNEW
English
(c) 2000. Market News International, Inc.

 NEW YORK (MktNews) - U.S. share prices are expected to open moderately higher Wednesday in reaction to Tuesday night's ruling by the Supreme Court which has apparently secured the presidential victory for the Republicans and George W. Bush. 

 Dealers and analysts said the stock market had already priced in a Bush victory and promises of stimulative tax cuts. Yet they said pharmaceuticals and tobacco are likely to rally, two sectors believed to benefit the most from the Republican tradition of hands-off government. 

 "We'll probably see a knee-jerk reaction in the Bush sectors, but the overall market won't get much," said Art Hogan, strategist at Jeffries & Co. 

 Attention will now turn with more force to economics and the prospects for first quarter corporate profits. Retail sales were much weaker than expected, dropping 0.4 percent and offering firm confirmation that the economy is slowing. Bulls are hoping that muted reactions to recent earnings warnings, most notably to Intel last week and Advanced Micro Devices this week, are an indication that bad profit news has been priced into the market and a price bottom is forming. 

 Compaq Computer will be the latest to test this theory, warning late Tuesday that it will not meet revenue and profit estimates due to weak demand and a fall off in the dotcom market. The company was down about 5 percent in pre-opening trade. 

 Likewise, appliance maker Whirlpool lowered projections this morning, announcing "significant" but undetermined job cuts due to weak markets. 

 ***MARKET NEWS INTERNATIONAL NEW YORK NEWSROOM 212 509 9270***. 

Document marnew0020010814dwcd0118i
?
 

Abreast of the Market
 More Profit Warnings Hurt Techs, As Nasdaq Slips Back Below 3000   

 By Robert O'Brien   
Dow Jones Newswires
1,073 words
13 December 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
C2
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

 NEW YORK -- One day proved easy, two days manageable, but sending the Nasdaq Composite Index higher for a third straight session turned out to be too much given the current climate for technology stocks.   

 Another spate of profit warnings caused tech stocks to sag once again, leaving market averages exposed to the sector weaker on the day.   

 Dallas Semiconductor fell $8 to $26, sinking to a 52-week low, after the chip maker warned late Monday that its fourth-quarter profits would trail analysts' targets. Another chip maker, Microchip Technology, issued its own forecast of a shortfall late Monday; it dropped 1.75 to 25.06 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.   

 Not all the companies warning of shortfalls saw their stocks punished, though. Advanced Micro Devices, a rival of chip maker Intel, said it wouldn't live up to projections. However, it traded higher intraday, and finished down six cents at 17.25. Internet advertising concern DoubleClick managed to finish in the black, up 1.95 to 13.89 on Nasdaq, after it said the continued slowdown in ad spending online would hurt its fourth-quarter profit performance.   

 Nevertheless, the Nasdaq Composite Index, which rode a two-day rally into the trading session, fell 83.33, or 2.76%, to 2931.77. It has been more than three months -- since the three-day period ended Sept. 1 -- since the Nasdaq composite managed to notch gains for three consecutive days.   

 "We've been in a straight line up since we hit the low on Nov. 30," said Mark Donahoe, managing director of institutional-sales trading at U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray.   

 Outside high technology, the profit performance proved to be mixed, with some good news sprinkled in amid the pessimism. The Dow Jones Industrial Average managed to finish the session with some gains, up 42.47, or 0.40%, at 10768.27.   

 Investors heard some encouraging news about earnings from Procter & Gamble. The Cincinnati consumer-products company said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission that it expects fiscal 2001 earnings to live up to previous forecasts. Proctor & Gamble gained 2.88 to 71.94.   

 Colgate-Palmolive, another big consumer-products maker, moved ahead 2.43 to 58.98, after the company said it would live up to analysts' profit projections for the fourth quarter.   

 Eastman Kodak also managed to finish in the black, gaining 1.50 to 41.06, even though the Rochester, N.Y., photography-products concern warned that declining consumer demand would hurt its profits for the fourth quarter.   

 Auto-parts maker Delphi Automotive also managed to finish higher in the face of a profit warning. The company gained 50 cents to 12.25, after having reached a 52-week low Monday at 11.50. The Troy, Mich., manufacturer warned that its earnings would fall short of projections.   

 Honeywell dropped 3.06 to 52.13, after the manufacturer forecast late Monday that it believes its fourth-quarter revenue and earnings will be substantially weaker than previously forecast.   

 Honeywell took its prospective purchaser, General Electric, down as well. GE fell 2.50 to 52.81, even though the company offered an upbeat outlook to analysts attending a dinner the company sponsored Monday.   

 Merrill Lynch declined 1.88 to 70.38, while brokerage Legg Mason fell 2.44 to 54.06, after Keefe Bruyette & Woods trimmed its estimates of the companies' quarterly earnings.   

 Artesyn Technologies dropped 13.63 to 29.50 on Nasdaq. Thomas Weisel Partners cut its rating of the Boca Raton, Fla., maker of power systems for personal computers and communications products, citing concerns there has been a buildup of inventories of its finished goods.   

 Power-One, a Camarillo, Calif., maker of products similar to Artesyn's, was down 6.75 to 62.13 on Nasdaq.   

 Commerce One fell 3.38 to 40.38 on Nasdaq. The Pleasanton, Calif., provider of business-to-business electronic-commerce software unveiled the details of an infrastructure pact with Covisint, the online parts exchange of the Big Three auto makers, that gives General Motors and Ford Motor a $1.26 billion stake in the company.   

 GM added 19 cents to 51.75. The auto maker announced that it plans to phase out its Oldsmobile brand, as well as other details of a restructuring effort. Ford Motor eased 25 cents to 23.63, near its 52-week low.   

 Ariba dropped 10.19 to 76.69 on Nasdaq, after Lehman Brothers expressed some reservations about the Mountain View, Calif., e-commerce-products maker's valuation.   

 Triquint Semiconductor sank 12.13 to 49.31 on Nasdaq. Credit Suisse First Boston cut its rating on the Hillsboro, Ore., maker of integrated circuits, citing concerns about the company's exposure to customers in the telecommunications-equipment sector whose own growth has slowed. In a rebuttal, CIBC World Markets said it thinks the decline in Triquint's price represents a buying opportunity, adding that it expects the company to guide earnings estimates higher at an analyst conference scheduled for Dec. 19.   

 Several semiconductor equipment makers lost ground in the session after Thomas Weisel Partners issued a downbeat forecast for capital spending in the sector. Applied Materials fell 5.44 to 45.50, Lam Research declined 1.94 to 18.06, and Novellus dropped 3.75 to 31.63, all on Nasdaq.   

 McDonald's managed to finish higher, gaining 94 cents to 30.88, even though analysts at J.P. Morgan and at Salomon Smith Barney trimmed earnings forecasts for the fast-food chain, citing the impact Europe's "mad cow" disease could have on its performance. At a conference for investors on Monday, McDonald's officials acknowledged that earnings would come in at the low end of analysts' range of forecasts.   

 Alcan Aluminum eased 31 cents to 32.94. The Canadian metals concern warned that it wouldn't live up to analysts' earnings expectations.   

 Maxim Pharmaceuticals sank 13.31 to 16.75 on Nasdaq. The San Diego drug developer faces a Food and Drug Administration panel review for one of its products.   

 Millennium Pharmaceuticals fell 7.19 to 57.25 on Nasdaq, ahead of an FDA panel review of the Cambridge, Mass., drug maker's request for approval of its Campath treatment for chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The review is expected to take place tomorrow.   

Document j000000020010807dwcd00wl9
?
Newscast: Business news and stock report   

304 words
13 December 2000
CBS News: The Early Show
CBST
English
(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

MARK McEWEN (Meteorologist):   

It's cold outside, but everybody says the market's going to heat up today. Let's check with Alexis Christoforous and MarketWatch. Hey, Alexis.   

ALEXIS CHRISTOFOROUS reporting:   

Hey, Mark, looks that way. We could be in for a relief rally this morning as investors react to the late-night Supreme Court decision that appears to seal George Bush's presidential victory. World markets are already reacting. In Tokyo overnight, the Nikkei advanced about 54 points.   

(Graphic on screen)   

CBS MarketWatch cbs.marketwatch.com   

Tokyo - Nikkei Average   

15,168.68 up 54.04   

up 0.36%   

CHRISTOFOROUS: And here at home, tech stocks took a breather following a two-day run-up, but the blue chips plowed ahead. The Dow rose 42 points to 10,768.   

(Graphic on screen)   

CBS MarketWatch cbs.marketwatch.com   

Dow Jones Industrials   

10,768.27 up 42.47   

CHRISTOFOROUS: The NASDAQ slid about 83 points. We're back below the 3,000 mark.   

(Graphic on screen)   

CBS MarketWatch cbs.marketwatch.com   

NASDAQ   

2,931.71 down 83.33   

CHRISTOFOROUS: 'Tis the season to sound a profit warning, and  Compaq Computer did just that. Compaq became the latest tech company to warn that profits will fall short of expectations because of weak PC demand. Wall Street will also find out how wide consumers are opening their wallets. The November retail sales due out at 8:30 Eastern time.   

For more, head to cbs.marketwatch.com, or AOL, keyword `MarketWatch.' Back over to Jane and Bryant.   

JANE CLAYSON (Co-host): All right, Alexis. Thank you.   

BRYANT GUMBEL (Co-host): All right, Alexis. Thanks so very much.   

Still ahead, we're going to continue to dissect the Supreme Court decision, see where Al Gore goes from here. We're back after this.   

(Announcements)   

Document CBST000020070818dwcd006sv
?
Newscast: Business news and stock report   

437 words
13 December 2000
CBS News: Morning News
CBSM
English
(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

JULIE CHEN, anchor:   

Stocks ended mixed on Wall Street. The Dow rose 42 points on Tuesday, closing at 10,768.   

(Graphic on screen)   

DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS   

10,768.27 up 42.47   

Volume: 1,083,440,000   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

CHEN: The NASDAQ tumbled 83 points, ending at 2,931.   

(Graphic on screen)   

NASDAQ   

2,931.71 down 83.33   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

CHEN: In Tokyo overnight, the Nikkei index was up more than 1/4 of 1 percent overnight.   

(Graphic on screen)   

TOKYO NIKKEI AVERAGE   

15,168.68 up 54.04   

CHANGE up 0.36%   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

CHEN: On the CBS MarketWatch, another bad day for technology stocks. Alexis Christoforous has more on that.   

ALEXIS CHRISTOFOROUS reporting:   

Tech stocks pulled back after a two-day run-up, but the blue chips plowed ahead. The NASDAQ is now back below that 3,000 level.   

Investors had to digest more profit warnings. DoubleClick,  Eastman Kodak and  General Motors all said that profit will disappoint, but those stocks rallied anyway. Market watchers say a lot of the bad news has already been priced into the market.  General Motors also said it will lay off about 5,000 workers in North America, and phase out its Oldsmobile models because of sliding sales.   

(Graphic on screen)   

PRICELINE.COM (PCLN)   

down .03 to 2.22   

CHRISTOFOROUS: William Shatner has reportedly blasted off and deserted  Priceline.com. The "Star Trek" star, who was featured in Priceline's commercials, is said to be upset about the company's stock plunge. He saw his stake in Priceline fall from $20 million to just about $200,000. For its part, Priceline says that report is false and that Shatner has a contract through next fall.   

Well, 'tis the season to sound a profit warning, and  Compaq Computer did just that.   

(Graphic on screen)   

COMPAQ (CPQ)   

WARNS ON 4th QUARTER SALES & PROFIT   

CHRISTOFOROUS: After the closing bell, Compaq said revenue and earnings will be below expectations. Compaq says it expects earnings of 28 cents to 30 cents a share. The Street was looking for 36 cents.   

(Graphic on screen)   

STOCK TO WATCH   

RAZORFISH (RAZF)   

CHRISTOFOROUS: Also after the bell, Razorfish. The Web site designer and Internet consulting firm, said it expects fourth-quarter revenue to miss the mark.   

And that's a check of your business. I'm Alexis Christoforous, CBS MarketWatch.   

CHEN: For more on the markets, click on cbs.marketwatch.com.   

Straight ahead on the MORNING NEWS, your Wednesday morning forecast. And in sports, Vince Carter returns for Toronto and leads the Raptors to a win.   

(Announcements)   

Document CBSM000020070818dwcd003c6
?
 

 Market given a vital pick-me-up. 

 By David Shand. 
886 words
13 December 2000
The Scotsman
SC
12
English
(c) 2000

 DRUG companies stepped in to provide a pick-me-up to the UK market after the new economy was again laid low by the now familiar profit warning virus spread from Wall Street. 

 With pharmaceuticals stocks set to benefit if George Bush wins the race for the White House, the sector was given a further boost by consent from the staff of the US Federal Trade Commission for the merger of Glaxo Wellcome and Smith-Kline Beecham, which is expected to be completed by the end of the year. 

 Glaxo Wellcome firmed 86p to #19.21 and SmithKline Beecham added 30.5p to 871.5p as the companies now await formal US regulatory approval and said they did not expect to have to make any further material disposals, although some sources were suggesting a sell off of anti-smoking products may be required. SmithKline also announced it had stopped clinical testing of its heart drug, lotrafiban, which had raised safety issues. 

 Biotech giant, Celltech, lent its weight to the sector's 2 per cent rise with a gain of 36p to #12.70, but AstraZeneca, down 49p to #32.11, bucked the positive trend after positive sales news on its ulcer drug, nexium, was overshadowed by the failure of its new oral anti-thrombin medicine failed to shine in clinical trials. Shire Pharmaceutical's health went into further decline, down 61p to 974p, as the market continued to show its disappointment at the company's agreed merger with Canada's BioChem Pharma. 

 Another sector widely tipped as benefiting from a Bush win is tobacco manufacturing, and as the odds continued to favour the Republican candidate, British American Tobacco puffed 15p higher to 480, with Imperial Tobacco adding 19p to 750p. Hopes of a short-term bounce in technology valuations, with Morgan Stanley predicting a 20 per cent recovery before the possibility of another possibly sharper decline, were dealt a blow by a profit warning from US chip maker, Advanced Micro Devices. 

 The techMARK 100 index gave up 49.36 points to 2828.81, with some of Monday's biggest gainers among the heaviest new economy casualties. Fiber-optic group, Bookham, crashed 103p to #13.55, software group, Logica, fell 124p to #18.46, business software giant, Misys, tumbled 37.5p to 660p, and chip designer, ARM, closed 26p lower at 641p. 

 The Government's unveiling of plans to overhaul outdated media laws, which is expected to usher in further consolidation in the TV industry, gave a boost to media shares, with Granada Media and Carlton Communications firmly in the spotlight with respective gains of 18p to 453p and 20p to 635p. Scottish Radio Holdings, boosted by the recent stake-building exercise ahead of the white paper by Scottish media group, SMG, up 4.5p to 269.5p, added a further 122.5p to #16.20 after appointing investment bank, Goldman Sachs, to head a strategic review. Jeremy Batstone, head of research at NatWest Stockbrokers, said: "I was disappointed by the tech performance following the after hours (US) announcements, but there is scope for (tech) valuations to go a bit better. The risk is lower than buying old economy because as the economic cycle turns and supply pressures become more pronounced, earnings downgrades will proliferate next year. One has to be very wary. It is the quality techs that have risen." 

 The European parliament debate over hostile takeovers may have ruffled a few feathers, but the market took the concerns in its stride, seeing any move to phase out unwanted predatory activity as highly unlikely. A timely upturn in the fortunes of the oil majors, under pressure recently by the tumbling price of crude helped to keep the FTSE 100 flowing positive, as it closed 20.1 points higher at 6390.4. The prospect of a cold front moving in on the US and uncertainty over Iraqi exports helped to boost oil stocks, with BP 7p slicker at 558p and Shell up 11p at 531p. 

 Strategists also pointed to the likelihood of some position squaring ahead of the expiry of futures at the end of the week for gains in certain stocks, with insurance giant, CGNU, firming 31p to #10.49. Life insurance rival, Prudential, was 9.5p down at #10.65.5 despite the likely spin-off benefits from the closure of Equitable Life to new business and the strong performance of its internet bank, Egg, which closed its account 8p in the black at 114p as bargain-hunters took advantage of the slump in its market value. Investors were also buying into the huge growth potential of mobile phone retailer, Carphone Warehouse, up 18.5p to 222p. But NatWest's Mr Batstone warned investors buying into mid-caps on the back of recent equity gains that this may prove a false dawn. 

 Abbey National's rejection after the market close of an #18.2 billion offer from Lloyds TSB, up 12p to 688p, valuing its shares at #12.74 each, followed heavy trading in the stock, which rose 35.5p in profit at #11.80. Dealers are continuing to ponder a tie-up involving Abbey's would-be merger partner, Bank of Scotland, up 8p to 698p, which has been linked with National Australia Bank. 

Document sc00000020010816dwcd00sy4
?
 

 Potential landmines ahead. 

872 words
13 December 2000
Business Times Singapore
STBT
English
(c) 2000 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

 [sh]The US remains the place to be in but recent events point to a rocky ride next year 

 WO positives, taken together, have inspired an impressive turnaround in favour of the US dollar and US stocks this week. This can only be good news for the exportdependent economies of Asia - and has provided a respite for the region's currencies and stocks. 

 Bottom line: markets are telling us that the US remains the place to be, but the last month's events also provide fair warning of at least a rockier ride next year. 

 Firstly, financial markets have already priced in a Bush presidency and up to two US interest rate cuts in the first half of next year. This was surmised from the latest deliberations of the US judiciary, and may even mean a final outcome by the time this article is read. Favoured alternatives to the greenback - the euro, the Australian and New Zealand dollars - have accordingly corrected back lower, based on the likely less interventionist inclinations of a Bush administration. 

 The other big plus comes as the direct result of an Alan Greenspan speech last Tuesday. The Federal Reserve's highly respected chairman further reinforced market speculation that Fed policymakers will at least move back to a neutral monetary policy stance when they meet next Tuesday. 

 US treasury bond benchmarks extended recent advances which were gained from a flight to quality when stocks were free-falling - and have since priced in further interest rate cuts across the whole yield curve. 

 Blue-chip indices like the Dow and the S&P 500 are now actually marginally higher than they were a month ago, and even the Nasdaq has all but recouped its losses of the last month with its move above 3,000 on Monday night. 

 But the path ahead is certainly strewn with more obstacles than at this time last year and, in the closing column for this year, we endeavour to highlight the most important of these potential landmines. 

 The dominant sentiment is that the US, on balance, should still emerge the overall winner. But our gut feel is that this can be said with far more confidence with respect to the value of the US dollar on international currency markets than with US stock prices on Wall Street. 

 At the most simplistic level, this instinct is probably coloured by what we saw just one week ago, when the Nasdaq had fallen to a mere 50 per cent of this year's peak - threatening to send other international stock markets into free-fall as well. Against where they stood at end-December 1999, all major stock indices were a negative shadow of their earlier levels - but the US dollar was still way ahead. 

 This can probably be best explained by the fact that the first instinct of fund managers, an industry dominated by US-based players, was to flee to the safety of defensive US stocks or US Treasuries. 

 The euro may have been an obvious beneficiary, but there was no massive flight of capital overseas. US treasuries, in particular, continue to be regarded as the best safe haven during financial storms. A decade of unprecedented US prosperity means that the stock, and new supplies, of such bonds have also shrunk considerably, as fiscal surpluses have accordingly exploded. 

 Which brings us to our next point. The market has already built in prompt interest rate cuts by the Fed should things turn sour, because Mr Greenspan sounded more worried about a hard landing last week than he has been for a long time. 

 But let's not forget that he also expressed concern that the US banking system should continue to keep the US economic engine running if conditions suddenly deteriorate. And this is the biggest landmine in the way of a smooth ride ahead, because the US has become a lot more heavily indebted at the international as well as domestic levels. 

 Private sector debt now stands at a record 150 per cent of US gross domestic product (GDP), and US personal savings have become negative for the first time since the 1930s. The US current account deficit of some US$400 billion (S$693.9 billion) now tips the scales at 4.5 per cent of GDP, versus 1.7 per cent as recently as 1997. 

 The harsh reality is that if banks are already overloaded with corporate and personal debt that's made more doubtful (remember what caused Bank of America's profit warning last week?) by a sudden downturn, they are unlikely to react to even hefty Fed interest rate cuts. 

 And let's not forget that a prudent Mr Greenspan may prefer to wait and see if a Bush presidency does carry through campaign promises to deliver large tax cuts - in effect delaying the expected Fed interest rate cuts the market has already priced in. 

 An economy that's still running pretty close to full capacity simply cannot afford the explosive effect of both tax and interest rate cuts. That would spell a whole lot more trouble than mere irrational exuberance - for the US as well as the rest of the world. Money Matters will resume on Jan 10. 

Document stbt000020010817dwcd00asi
?
 

 Nasdaq swings into reverse. 

284 words
13 December 2000
Daily Telegraph
DAITEL
43
English
(c) 2000 Nationwide News Proprietary Ltd

 AMERICA'S Nasdaq market fell today as investors took a break from its 9.5 per cent rally over the past two days. 

 The Nasdaq index fell 83.27 points, or 2.8 per cent, to 2931.83. 

 The Nasdaq's surge over the previous two sessions was its first two-day gain in almost a month. 

 The S&P 500 index slipped 9.02 to 1371.18, led by General Electric. 

 Eastman Kodak and Internet advertising agency DoubleClick both rose despite warning that sales or profit will fall short of estimates. Both shares had already fallen substantially. 

 Four stocks fell for every three that rose on the New York Stock Exchange. Almost 1.07 billion shares traded on the Big Board, 4.7 per cent below the recent average. 

 Investors traded less than usual because they wanted to see whether the US Supreme Court would allow a manual recount of Florida's presidential votes to resume, according to Tom Schrader, head of listed trading at Legg Mason Wood Walker in Baltimore. "We need to have one of the candidates actually concede to bring this to a close," he said. 

 The court did not issue any ruling during the session. 

 Profit growth for companies in the S&P 500 is expected to slow to 8.5 per cent in the fourth quarter from a peak of 23.6 per cent in the first quarter, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 At October 1, analysts had forecast fourth-quarter earnings growth of 15.6 per cent. 

 - Bloomberg News 

 * THE Australian dollar was changing hands around US54.15c this morning, with trade subdued because of the US presidential poll uncertainty. 

Document daitel0020010805dwcd00vjr
?
 

 US STOCKS STEADY, AWAITING SUPREME COURT -  PROFIT WARNING  SNUBS. 

270 words
12 December 2000
21:34
Market News International
MARNEW
English
(c) 2000. Market News International, Inc.

 NEW YORK (MktNews) - U.S. share prices ended little changed Tuesday, as investors awaited an expected Supreme Court ruling that will determine the winner of the 2000 presidential election. 

 The Nasdaq composite fell 83.28 to 2931.82, while the DJIA rose 46.27 points to 10772.07. 

 Dealers said trading was quiet, especially late in the session as the weight ground business to a halt. 

 The Supreme Court was deliberating whether to allow a hand count of the Florida vote and hence breath further life into the Demarcates. 

 Dealers and analysts expect the market to rally sharply on a Bush decision and the promises of stimulative tax cuts. They warn that a Gore decision would raise further uncertainty and trigger a selloff. 

 The market's latest trend of shrugging off profit warnings, beginning with Intel last week, extended in sharp fashion. Eastman Kodak lowered projects due to weak demand and higher costs but gained 2 1/6 to 41 5/8 (EK) on the day. 

 When the company made a similar announcement in September, the company's stock dropped by 25% in one day. 

 Likewise, Advanced Micro Devices, gained an 1/8 to 17 7/16 (AMD) after also lowering projections. 

 Dealers and analysts said the new trend may indicate that lower profits during the slowdown have already been priced into the market. 

 Procter & Gamble, up 2 5/8 to 71 11/16 (PG), affirmed projections, as did General Electric, down 2 5/8 to 52 11/16 (GE). 

 ***MARKET NEWS INTERNATIONAL NEW YORK 212 509 9270*** 

 [TOPICS: MNUEQ$]. 

Document marnew0020010814dwcc0115t
?
 

Nation/World
BUSINESS
NATION/WORLD

Associated Press   
760 words
12 December 2000
Charlotte Observer (NC)
CLTO
ONE-THREE
1D
English
Copyright 2000 The Charlotte Observer. All rights reserved.   

Stocks surge on hopes of interest cuts

The possibility of interest rate cuts sent tech stocks surging Monday, lifting the Nasdaq composite index back above 3,000.

"It's been a real up-and-down kind of day, subject to the whims of what people hear on TV" about the election, said Scott Bleier, chief investment strategist for Prime Charter Ltd. But "the fact is that the market's entire tone has improved dramatically since the Fed ... basically told everybody that the slowdown we're seeing is not going to be allowed to dive into a recession."

The Nasdaq closed up 97.67, or 3.4 percent, at 3,015.10. The last time the index traded at or closed above 3,000 was Nov. 17; it has also risen more than 20 percent since dipping below 2,500 on Nov. 30.

Blue chips struggled to keep up in light trading. The Dow Jones industrial average ended the day up 12.89, or 0.1 percent, at 10,725.80 after changing direction several times during the day.

After weeks of shunning the tech sector as too risky, investors have resumed buying the stocks, many of which are trading at less than half their 52-week highs. - Associated Press

*

Lands' End says earnings may trail last year's

Lands' End Inc. has revised downward its earning expectations for the 2001 fiscal year, saying Monday it expects them to be somewhat below last year.

The retailer of casual wear had previously said it expected its earnings to be somewhat positive for the fiscal year ending Jan. 26.

Lands' End said sales for the first six weeks of its fourth quarter rose 11 percent, compared with a year earlier. It added in a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that the sales rate, coupled with continuing pressure on gross profit margin, would result in "earnings for the full year to be flat to somewhat below the prior year."

On Monday, shares of Lands' End were down $2.14 to close at $26.95 on the New York Stock Exchange. - Associated Press

*

Blizzard in Chicago a factor in natural gas price surge

Natural gas prices soared to a record high Monday as a blizzard socked the Midwest and forecasts predicted bitter cold.

The soaring prices could almost immediately show up as unwelcome increases in consumers' winter heating bills, analysts said.

Natural gas futures rose as much as 13 percent, hitting a high of $9.65 per 1,000 cubic feet in regular trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange after surging as high as $9.86 in electronic trading overnight. January natural gas finished up 82.9 cents to $9.41 per 1,000 cubic feet.

Phil Flynn, vice president and senior energy analyst at Alaron Trading Corp. in Chicago, said a storm that was expected to dump up to a foot of snow on Chicago raised fears that utilities may not have enough natural gas stored to get through a harsh winter. Natural gas heats 90 percent of the homes in Chicago, he said.

Cold weather in the Pacific Northwest has also contributed to the rise in prices, he said. - Associated Press

*

In Brief

Specialty semiconductor maker MICROCHIP TECHNOLOGY INC. Monday warned its fiscal third-quarter sales would fall short of expectations because of an inventory backup among its distributors, a problem it does not see being resolved until next spring. Shares of the Chandler, Ariz., company fell 18 percent in after-hours trading, compounding earlier losses following the warning, which was the latest of many weak sales and profit outlooks in the cyclical semiconductor sector as companies begin to feel the effects of a softer economy.

AMERICAN SKIING CO., the largest ski-resort operator in the United States, said Monday it has agreed to buy hotel operator MeriStar Hotels & Resorts Inc. for about $135 million in stock. The combined company will be renamed Doral International Inc. Maine-based American Skiing will relocate to MeriStar's headquarters in Washington, D.C.

Technology giant IBM CORP. said Monday it will start selling computer chips fast enough to handle applications such as speech recognition and wireless video in the first quarter of 2001. Chipmaker Intel Corp. unveiled the technology to create chips five times faster than that. The two companies have reduced circuit size to boost processing speeds and data-storage capacity. The smaller a circuit is, the faster it can operate and the more data can be crammed onto a computer chip.

Document CLTO000020090630dwcc01eij
?
Newscast: Business news and stock report   

552 words
12 December 2000
CBS News: Morning News
CBSM
English
(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

RANDALL PINKSTON, anchor:   

On Wall Street, stocks were higher on hopes of interest rate cuts. The Dow was up 12 points to 10,725.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Dow Jones Industrials   

10.725.80   

up 12.89   

Volume:   

1,231,500,000   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

PINKSTON: NASDAQ climbed 97 points, closing at 3,015.   

(Graphic on screen)   

NASDAQ   

3,015.10   

up 97.67   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

PINKSTON: In Tokyo, the Nikkei gained a fraction, about 1/2 of 1 percent overnight.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Tokyo Nikkei Average   

15,114.64   

up 98.94   

change up 0.66%   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

PINKSTON: On the CBS MarketWatch, bargain-hunting and profit worries. Alexis Christoforous has the winners and the losers.   

ALEXIS CHRISTOFOROUS reporting:   

Tech stocks led the way higher as Wall Street remained on Supreme Court watch. Among the big winners here at the NASDAQ, we had  Microsoft, up nearly 7 percent on the day.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Microsoft + 6.7% 58.06 + 3.62   

CHRISTOFOROUS:  Intel put in a spectacular performance. It was up better than 10 percent, or nearly $3.50.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Intel + 10.1% 37.44 + 3.44   

CHRISTOFOROUS: And  Oracle, which is out with earnings later this week, tacked on a gain of more than 6 percent.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Oracle + 6.2% 31.94 + 1.87   

CHRISTOFOROUS: But  Sun Microsystems was not invited to the party. This stock stock down nearly 13 percent; its fourth-straight day of losses.  Goldman Sachs made some negative comments about the company. There is concern that sales growth at Sun will slow.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Sun Microsystems - 12.7% 34.00 - 4.94   

CHRISTOFOROUS: Now retailers were mixed on concern about holiday sales.  Home Depot and  Wal-Mart held back the Dow.  Wal-Mart fell hard after reporting soft sales for the second-straight week.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Retail Woes   

Home Depot (HD)  Wal-Mart (WMT)   

down down 2.12 3.06 to to 45.23 51.38   

CHRISTOFOROUS: But financial stocks were flying high, and they were led by  Lehman Brothers. A  Goldman Sachs analyst said Lehman's stock is the most attractive right now among US brokers.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Lehman Brothers (LEH)   

up to 6.25 68.06   

CHRISTOFOROUS: And  McDonald's says year-end profits will be at the low end of estimates. That's because mad cow disease overseas is hurting demand for beef in Europe.   

(Graphic on screen)   

McDonald's (MCD)   

up to   

CHRISTOFOROUS: In after-the-bell news, first  Intel, now the chip maker  Advanced Micro Devices is issuing a warning. After the closing bell, AMD,  Intel's biggest rival, warned that profit will be at least 8 cents below estimates.   

And Dallas Semiconductor joined the growing list of tech companies to warn that revenue in the fourth quarter will come in below expectations.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Stocks to Watch   

Advance Micro Devices (AMD)   

Dallas Semiconductor (DS)   

CHRISTOFOROUS: At the NASDAQ market site, I'm Alexis Christoforous, CBS MarketWatch.   

PINKSTON: And for more on the markets, click on cbs.marketwatch.com.   

Straight ahead on your MORNING NEWS, your Tuesday morning weather. And in sports, baseball's Alex Rodriguez breaks the bank, and the Colts break up Buffalo's NFL playoff hopes.   

(Announcements)   

Document CBSM000020070818dwcc003bm
?
 

 News Highlights: Florida House Approves 25 Bush Electors 

1,005 words
12 December 2000
21:02
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


                      Top Of The Hour
Florida House Approves Slate Of 25 Bush Electors >G/EXE
Georgia-Pacific To Permanently Idle 3 Paper Machines,Close Kalamazoo
Unit >GP
Corning To Spend $150 Million to Expand Pa. Plant Capacity >GLW
Metro Info Services Names Downing President, Operating Chief >MISI
McVeigh Seeks To Halt Okla. Bombing Appeals; Wants Execution Date Set
>N/HOT
DJIA Up 44 At 10770; Nasdaq Down 79 At 2935 >N/NYS N/NDQ



                      Top Of The Day
GM To Phase Out Oldsmobile Marketing Division, Brand >GM
Eastman Kodak Sees 4Q Net 65c-75c/Shr,Year Net $4.65-$4.75/Shr;Below
Views>EK
Alcan Says Its 4Q Earnings Won't Meet Analysts' View >AL
Microsoft Settles 'Permatemp' Suit For $97M >MSFT
SEC Levitt: Dilutive Stock Options Should Require Holder OK >G/SEC
GM, Ford To Get Share Of Commerce One Via Covisint >F
Willamette Board Recommends Rejection Of Weyerhaeuser Offer >WLL
General Electric 'On Track' For 2000 Net Of $1.27 A Share>GE
Procter & Gamble Comfortable With 2Q EPS Estimates >PG
Delphi Automotive Sees 4Q Net At 31c-35c/Shr, 4Q Rev At $6.8B-$6.9B
>DPH
Diageo, Pernod-Ricard Submit Bid For Seagram Drinks Business>DEO F.PER
NAPM Survey: Manufacturing 2001 Revenues Seen Up 4.4% Vs 4.0% In 2000
>N/FIN
                          Special Reports
=Options Report: Philip Morris Options Active >MO
=Team Management Approach Improves Wachovia Funds' Rank >N/FND
=Maxim Pharma Dn On FDA Report Ahead Of Panel Meeting >MAXM
=Mediconsult Up On Block Trade Volume >MCNS
=Red Hat Up On Contract Win, Earnings Expectations >RHAT
=BEA Systems Dn; Profit-Taking, Falling Nasdaq Cited >BEAS
=Bankers Optimistic About Hi-Yld Telecom Finance In 2001 >N/BON
=WSJ.COM WRAP: Southwest Air To Cut Agents' Commissions >LUV
=Techie Who Found Disk Drive Flaw Battling With Govt >HWP
=TIP SHEET: Michael Kunath's Growth, Long-Term Outlook >N/TSH
=Nasdaq Exec:No Ease In Volatility Until Speculation Ebbs >N/NDQ
=N.Y. Stocks Mixed, With Large-Cap Techs Taking Knocks >N/NYS
=Tyson's Surprise Tender For IBP Starts Regulatory Clock >TSN
=Intraware Down On CSFB Downgrade And Rev Concerns >ITRA
=GM Exec:E-Commerce Split Not Hurting Toyota Relationship >GM
=Expedia CEO Sees Growth Coming From Lodging,Not Airlines >EXPE
=GM Set To Phase Out Oldsmobile, Focus On Other Brands >GM
=Institutional Buyers Are Starting To Say 'Yes' To Stocks >I/FIS
=Pivotal Corp. Dn After Cut From Merrill's Techfolio >PVTL
=Valicert Up; Valuation, Customer News Cited >VLCT
=Mid-Atlantic Utils Struggle With Wind-Related Outages >I/ELC
=J Sainsbury: Gets Bid Approach For Egypt Ops - Source >I/RTS
=AstraZeneca Set To Let Nexium, Crestor Take Center Stage >AZN
=Kodak's 2001 Earns View Could Falter In U.S. Recession >EK
=UK's Media Deregulation Proposals Good News For ITV >I/ENT
=McData CEO Sees No Ebb In Storage-Demand Growth >MCDT
=TALES OF THE TAPE: Fast-Moving Fleet Still Seen As Winner >FBF
=Senate Banking: Treasury's Commodities Bill Offer Falls Short >G/TRE
=Ariba Down After Lehman Issues Cautious Note >ARBA
=Advanced Micro Issues 4Q Warning; Stock Doesn't Suffer >AMD
=Telecom Italia Holder Turns Up Heat On Buyback Issue  >TI
=Ariz. Alternative-Fuel Converters Hit By Legislative Fix >HMC
=MARK TO MARKET: Read It And Weep >N/POV
=SAP's New CFO To Spearhead US Mkt, Tighten Grip On Costs >SAP
=Enough Room On Web For eBOND Of US, Canada's E-Bond >N/BON
=Analyst Ups Silent Witness After Solid 1Q Earns >SILW
=Commodities Review: Oil Prices Fall Despite US Cold Snap >I/OIL
=TECHNICALLY SPEAKING:Consumer Stocks Stage Stealth Rally >DJDAY
=Pavonia PATH Station Closed Due To Falling Debris, Wind >R/NJ
=Terra Lycos Shrs Hurt By Downgrade, Yahoo! Woes >TEF YH
=Tracing Server IPO On Christmas Menu For Investors >I/SOF
=GenVec Shares Rise Modestly In Market Debut >GNVC
=Web Ad, Mktg Stks Up With DoubleClick's Bad News Bounce >DCLK
=Loudeye Tech Up After BMG Licensing Pact >LOUD
=WSJ.COM WRAP: Constellation Energy to Buy Niagara Assets >CEG
=General Electric Dn In Conjunction With Honeywell >GE
=Lucent Up In Heavy Trading On Nokia Buyout Rumor >LU
=Teligent's Ability To Secure More Funding In Question >TGNT
=Economists See Fed Staving Off Recession With Rate Cuts >G/FED
=Covad Commun Shares Dn After 92% Rise Monday >COVD
=Digital Island Up; Sprint May Consider Buying Co>ISLD
=CAPITAL VIEWS: Clinton On Governing, Past And Present >G/EXE
=AT&T LatAm Lines Up Funding, Waits For Mkts To Improve >T
=Honeywell Shrs Sink On Reduced 4Q Outlook >HON
=Procter & Gamble Up After Reiterating Its 2Q Guidance >PG
=WSJ.COM WRAP: Covad To Take $20M Chg For Work-Force Cuts >COVD
=GlaxoSmithKline To Seal Merger By Yr End - But Only Just  >GLX
=LocalBusiness.com Lays Off 27% Of Staff >TRB
=First Choice Specialist Strategy Sees FY Profits Up >I/ENT
=MARK TO MARKET: Supremes: 'Stop! In The Name Of W' >DJDAY
=Charting Markets: Key World Stk Indexes To Extend Gains >N/STO
=ECB Watch:Rates On Hold Thu; M3 Change Too Close To Call >N/ECB
=Havas Advertising Investors Fear Fresh US Bid >HADV
=Florida Presidential Election Developments At A Glance>N/ELX
=French Govt Under Pressure To Reduce UMTS License Charge>R/FR
=INTERVIEW: Timken President To Revamp China Ops>TKR
=US Airwave Auction May Help Meet Demand For Wireless Phones>I/TEL
=INTERVIEW: SocGen Innovates To Lure Small Japan Investors>R/JA
                       In Other Business ...
Citigroup Names Biglari Head Of Corporate Strategy >C
AES Corp. To Increase Bid Price For Chile's Gener >AES
Telesystem Intl Amends 3Q Loss To 72c From 87c >TIWI
Unit Corp. Buys 887,000 Shenandoah Resources Shrs >UNT
Overland Data To Serve As OEM Supplier For Compaq >OVRL
Home-Stake Oil Completes Cortez Oil Merger >HSOG
Sylvan Learning To Buy 80% Chile University Parent Stake >SLVN
American Pacific 4Q Net 88c/Diluted Shr Vs 48c >APFC
Wabash Natl Names Thomas Kassouf Operating Chief >WNC



2102GMT


5030 55101

Document dji0000020010805dwcc05yi9
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Uneventful Session In Stock Futures, For Now 

948 words
12 December 2000
17:22
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



12:23 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps are quietly weaker in mild volume, floor
traders say, still awaiting news from the Supreme Court. Rolling of
positions is the main feature, they add. "About half the volume has been
in the roll," one floor trader says. March Nasdaq under slightly more
pressure due to profit taking, he adds. (DMC)



12:20 (Dow Jones) Just like rival Intel (INTC), news of Advanced Micro
Devices (AMD) 4Q warning didn't wreck havoc on the stock. In fact, the
stock is actually up 1.4%, even though AMD said after the close of
trading Monday that it expects to report sales that are unchanged or
only slightly higher than the $1.21 billion reported for the third
quarter. When Intel warned, its stock too reacted by climbing. Maybe
more tech companies, who need to boost their stocks, ought to
pre-announce. (DLF)



12:15 (Dow Jones) Analysts continue to weigh in on beleaguered Yahoo!
(YHOO). A day after a rating downgrade and cautious analyst comments
sent the shares lower, Prudential Securities' Mark Rowen says enough is
enough. Maintaining his strong buy rating, Rowen says expectations of
weak advertising revenue in Yahoo's 4Q are already priced into the
stock. Yahoo could squeak by 4Q estimates, but the company could lower
expectations for 2001. Still, Rowen says that when investors become more
optimistic, they will recognize Yahoo as a cheap stock. He has a $90
price target. (PDL)



12:11 (Dow Jones) Salomon says that while high-yield telecom market is
in state of turmoil, there is tremendous opportunity for above-average
returns in bonds of 'A' tier players. Its list of these names includes:
ABIZ, ALGX, FCOM, MCLD, TWTC, WCII, XOXO, FTHL, GX, LVLT, MFNX, and WCG.
(TG)



11:57 (Dow Jones) Chicago floor participants are a hearty stock, but
historical figures indicate just how dramatic the Windy City's snow
accumulation has been. According to the Chicago Sun-Times, Chicago
usually sees an average of 8.8 inches for the whole month of December.
Last night, the city received 12-14 inches of snow in one evening alone.
This all happened amid windchills upwards of 40-below. (CMN)



11:54 (Dow Jones) Scott & Stringfelllow's Dick Dickson isn't
concentrating on Nasdaq Composite's downside risk, which he now sees as
minimal. Instead, he's looking at upside potential, and says a close
above 3025 on heavy volume can bring index up to 3500-3800 level.
Expects market to work its way higher in next several weeks, led by
techs and finance. (TG)



11:39 (Dow Jones) Unofficial price talk for $2 billion WorldCom (WCOM)
issue sees yields about 190 bp over two-year Treasurys for a 10-year
tranche with a 2-year put/call and 215 bp over Treasurys for 5-year
tranche. (DA)



11:27 (Dow Jones) Five names favored by Prudential's chief technician,
Ralph Acampora: Qualcomm (QCOM), Unisys (UIS), Home Depot (HD), Wal-Mart
(WMT), and Dime Bancorp (DME). (TG)



11:11 (Dow Jones) Treasurys have shaved off some of their earlier
declines after Nasdaq began falling, but are still in negative
territory. Still, the Supreme Court vigil is keeping trade subdued.
(MSD)



10:59 (Dow Jones) The news coming out of General Motors (GM) is
knocking just a bit out of the stock. Some news already reported in
Journal, but the 4Q profit warning is a new revelation. Says 4Q net to
come in between $1.10 a share and $1.20 before items. Shares up 2.9%
after bigger gains earlier. (TG)



10:51 (Dow Jones) Improvement in Eastman Kodak (EK) shares Tuesday
being called "a marvel of short covering" by one well-connected trader.
Given the downbeat outlook for the 4Q - company guided to as low as 65
cents, from consensus $1.07 - and the full year, trader says there is no
fundamental rationale for getting into Kodak now. (ROB)



10:48 (Dow Jones) New open interest records were set for some CME
equity contracts. Nasdaq 100 set an open interest record of 58258,
surpassing the former record of 53656 set on Dec. 5. S&P 500 open
interest was 533476, breaking a record of 526315 made on Friday. S&P
Midcap also set an open interest record of 21138, vs. the former record
of 21024 set on Dec. 21, 1998. S&P Midcap also set a volume record of
7092, above the former record of 6593 made on Sept. 13, 1999. (DMC)



10:45 (Dow Jones) Philip Morris (MO) hires Salomon Smith Barney and
CSFB to lead IPO of Kraft, sources say. (ROB)



10:42 (Dow Jones) NAPM survey shows investment plans way down.
Manufacturing investment growth, projected at 4.9% in 2000, seen at 1.8%
in 2001. Notable that 2000 projection is itself the slowest increase
since 1991. Meanwhile, non-manufacturing investment seen up 6.0% in
2000, but up just 1.5% in 2001. (MC)



10:39 (Dow Jones) Wall Street has gotten used to big tech names
preannouncing weak numbers in recent weeks. Well, Tuesday's session,
while still containing some bleak views, has provided some better news
from a diverse group of huge names: Procter & Gamble (PG), Merck (MRK),
and General Electic (GE) all have backed numbers in some form. P&G and
Merck are helping the DJIA outperform Nasdaq, but GE is the blue-chip
barometer's second-worst-performing name, down 5%. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwcc04ljl
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Prudential Steps Up To Defend Yahoo! 

1,230 words
12 December 2000
17:15
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



12:15 (Dow Jones) Analysts continue to weigh in on beleaguered Yahoo!
(YHOO). A day after a rating downgrade and cautious analyst comments
sent the shares lower, Prudential Securities' Mark Rowen says enough is
enough. Maintaining his strong buy rating, Rowen says expectations of
weak advertising revenue in Yahoo's 4Q are already priced into the
stock. Yahoo could squeak by 4Q estimates, but the company could lower
expectations for 2001. Still, Rowen says that when investors become more
optimistic, they will recognize Yahoo as a cheap stock. He has a $90
price target. (PDL)



12:11 (Dow Jones) Salomon says that while high-yield telecom market is
in state of turmoil, there is tremendous opportunity for above-average
returns in bonds of 'A' tier players. Its list of these names includes:
ABIZ, ALGX, FCOM, MCLD, TWTC, WCII, XOXO, FTHL, GX, LVLT, MFNX, and WCG.
(TG)



11:57 (Dow Jones) Chicago floor participants are a hearty stock, but
historical figures indicate just how dramatic the Windy City's snow
accumulation has been. According to the Chicago Sun-Times, Chicago
usually sees an average of 8.8 inches for the whole month of December.
Last night, the city received 12-14 inches of snow in one evening alone.
This all happened amid windchills upwards of 40-below. (CMN)



11:54 (Dow Jones) Scott & Stringfelllow's Dick Dickson isn't
concentrating on Nasdaq Composite's downside risk, which he now sees as
minimal. Instead, he's looking at upside potential, and says a close
above 3025 on heavy volume can bring index up to 3500-3800 level.
Expects market to work its way higher in next several weeks, led by
techs and finance. (TG)



11:39 (Dow Jones) Unofficial price talk for $2 billion WorldCom (WCOM)
issue sees yields about 190 bp over two-year Treasurys for a 10-year
tranche with a 2-year put/call and 215 bp over Treasurys for 5-year
tranche. (DA)



11:27 (Dow Jones) Five names favored by Prudential's chief technician,
Ralph Acampora: Qualcomm (QCOM), Unisys (UIS), Home Depot (HD), Wal-Mart
(WMT), and Dime Bancorp (DME). (TG)



11:11 (Dow Jones) Treasurys have shaved off some of their earlier
declines after Nasdaq began falling, but are still in negative
territory. Still, the Supreme Court vigil is keeping trade subdued.
(MSD)



10:59 (Dow Jones) The news coming out of General Motors (GM) is
knocking just a bit out of the stock. Some news already reported in
Journal, but the 4Q profit warning is a new revelation. Says 4Q net to
come in between $1.10 a share and $1.20 before items. Shares up 2.9%
after bigger gains earlier. (TG)



10:51 (Dow Jones) Improvement in Eastman Kodak (EK) shares Tuesday
being called "a marvel of short covering" by one well-connected trader.
Given the downbeat outlook for the 4Q - company guided to as low as 65
cents, from consensus $1.07 - and the full year, trader says there is no
fundamental rationale for getting into Kodak now. (ROB)



10:48 (Dow Jones) New open interest records were set for some CME
equity contracts. Nasdaq 100 set an open interest record of 58258,
surpassing the former record of 53656 set on Dec. 5. S&P 500 open
interest was 533476, breaking a record of 526315 made on Friday. S&P
Midcap also set an open interest record of 21138, vs. the former record
of 21024 set on Dec. 21, 1998. S&P Midcap also set a volume record of
7092, above the former record of 6593 made on Sept. 13, 1999. (DMC)



10:45 (Dow Jones) Philip Morris (MO) hires Salomon Smith Barney and
CSFB to lead IPO of Kraft, sources say. (ROB)



10:42 (Dow Jones) NAPM survey shows investment plans way down.
Manufacturing investment growth, projected at 4.9% in 2000, seen at 1.8%
in 2001. Notable that 2000 projection is itself the slowest increase
since 1991. Meanwhile, non-manufacturing investment seen up 6.0% in
2000, but up just 1.5% in 2001. (MC)



10:39 (Dow Jones) Wall Street has gotten used to big tech names
preannouncing weak numbers in recent weeks. Well, Tuesday's session,
while still containing some bleak views, has provided some better news
from a diverse group of huge names: Procter & Gamble (PG), Merck (MRK),
and General Electic (GE) all have backed numbers in some form. P&G and
Merck are helping the DJIA outperform Nasdaq, but GE is the blue-chip
barometer's second-worst-performing name, down 5%. (TG)



10:30 (Dow Jones) Still no pricing power for companies. NAPM's
semi-annual survey reports 86% of firms citing no or only minimal
ability to pass on cost increases to their customers. (MC)



10:28 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps await news from the Supreme Court, floor
traders say. "That's the only thing that's going to get this market to
start really trading," one floor trader says. March Nasdaq is also off
of its lows as the contract was pulled back by March S&Ps. "The Nasdaq
break was cash led and when we (S&Ps) didn't break, Nasdaq came back,"
he says. (DMC)



10:20 (Dow Jones) With the exception of its announced $645 million buy
of Giganet Inc. (using 4 million of its shares), how much has changed at
Emulex (EMLX) in the past eight trading sessions? Well, the shares have
edged up about $70 in that span. Maybe the momentum players are back.
Stock up 8 at 177. (TG)



10:07 (Dow Jones) The euro continues to increase its following among
fund managers, with 75% choosing the single currency as their main
preference in the latest Merrill Lynch Dec. global fund manager survey,
up from 72% in Nov, and 68% in Oct. (GS)



10:03 (Dow Jones) DoubleClick's (DCLK) 4Q warning late Monday prompted
at least one analyst -- SG Cowen's Scott Reamer -- to downgrade the
online advertising company's stock. But the news lifted the company's
stock about 13% early Tuesday. Analysts said the positive response was
likely due to the perception that the bulk of bad news is now behind
DoubleClick. Some short-covering may have been at work as well, one
analyst said. Like other online ad companies and portals, DoubleClick
has been hit by a slowdown in ad spending as a result of the dot-com
shakeout. (RS)



9:57 (Dow Jones) Lehman says Ariba's (ARBA) $25 billion diluted market
cap overstates company's realistic growth prospects. Stock trades at 34
times 2001 revenue and 457 times 2001 cash earnings. Even with generous
assumptions, Lehman's 5-year rate of return model yields just 2.1%
annual return. Catalysts to upgrade of stock, currently rated neutral,
include acquisition of collaborative applications or significant
acceleration of network revenue. (TG)



9:46 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps are holding above the overnight low
support of 1394.60 as it trades weaker. Further support seen at 1394.10,
with better support at 1381.50. Resistance seen at 1408 and 1414.20,
according to off-floor trader. (DMC)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwcc04lip
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Great Chance In 'A' Tier Telecoms, SSB Says 

1,137 words
12 December 2000
17:13
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



12:11 (Dow Jones) Salomon says that while high-yield telecom market is
in state of turmoil, there is tremendous opportunity for above-average
returns in bonds of 'A' tier players. Its list of these names includes:
ABIZ, ALGX, FCOM, MCLD, TWTC, WCII, XOXO, FTHL, GX, LVLT, MFNX, and WCG.
(TG)



11:57 (Dow Jones) Chicago floor participants are a hearty stock, but
historical figures indicate just how dramatic the Windy City's snow
accumulation has been. According to the Chicago Sun-Times, Chicago
usually sees an average of 8.8 inches for the whole month of December.
Last night, the city received 12-14 inches of snow in one evening alone.
This all happened amid windchills upwards of 40-below. (CMN)



11:54 (Dow Jones) Scott & Stringfelllow's Dick Dickson isn't
concentrating on Nasdaq Composite's downside risk, which he now sees as
minimal. Instead, he's looking at upside potential, and says a close
above 3025 on heavy volume can bring index up to 3500-3800 level.
Expects market to work its way higher in next several weeks, led by
techs and finance. (TG)



11:39 (Dow Jones) Unofficial price talk for $2 billion WorldCom (WCOM)
issue sees yields about 190 bp over two-year Treasurys for a 10-year
tranche with a 2-year put/call and 215 bp over Treasurys for 5-year
tranche. (DA)



11:27 (Dow Jones) Five names favored by Prudential's chief technician,
Ralph Acampora: Qualcomm (QCOM), Unisys (UIS), Home Depot (HD), Wal-Mart
(WMT), and Dime Bancorp (DME). (TG)



11:11 (Dow Jones) Treasurys have shaved off some of their earlier
declines after Nasdaq began falling, but are still in negative
territory. Still, the Supreme Court vigil is keeping trade subdued.
(MSD)



10:59 (Dow Jones) The news coming out of General Motors (GM) is
knocking just a bit out of the stock. Some news already reported in
Journal, but the 4Q profit warning is a new revelation. Says 4Q net to
come in between $1.10 a share and $1.20 before items. Shares up 2.9%
after bigger gains earlier. (TG)



10:51 (Dow Jones) Improvement in Eastman Kodak (EK) shares Tuesday
being called "a marvel of short covering" by one well-connected trader.
Given the downbeat outlook for the 4Q - company guided to as low as 65
cents, from consensus $1.07 - and the full year, trader says there is no
fundamental rationale for getting into Kodak now. (ROB)



10:48 (Dow Jones) New open interest records were set for some CME
equity contracts. Nasdaq 100 set an open interest record of 58258,
surpassing the former record of 53656 set on Dec. 5. S&P 500 open
interest was 533476, breaking a record of 526315 made on Friday. S&P
Midcap also set an open interest record of 21138, vs. the former record
of 21024 set on Dec. 21, 1998. S&P Midcap also set a volume record of
7092, above the former record of 6593 made on Sept. 13, 1999. (DMC)



10:45 (Dow Jones) Philip Morris (MO) hires Salomon Smith Barney and
CSFB to lead IPO of Kraft, sources say. (ROB)



10:42 (Dow Jones) NAPM survey shows investment plans way down.
Manufacturing investment growth, projected at 4.9% in 2000, seen at 1.8%
in 2001. Notable that 2000 projection is itself the slowest increase
since 1991. Meanwhile, non-manufacturing investment seen up 6.0% in
2000, but up just 1.5% in 2001. (MC)



10:39 (Dow Jones) Wall Street has gotten used to big tech names
preannouncing weak numbers in recent weeks. Well, Tuesday's session,
while still containing some bleak views, has provided some better news
from a diverse group of huge names: Procter & Gamble (PG), Merck (MRK),
and General Electic (GE) all have backed numbers in some form. P&G and
Merck are helping the DJIA outperform Nasdaq, but GE is the blue-chip
barometer's second-worst-performing name, down 5%. (TG)



10:30 (Dow Jones) Still no pricing power for companies. NAPM's
semi-annual survey reports 86% of firms citing no or only minimal
ability to pass on cost increases to their customers. (MC)



10:28 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps await news from the Supreme Court, floor
traders say. "That's the only thing that's going to get this market to
start really trading," one floor trader says. March Nasdaq is also off
of its lows as the contract was pulled back by March S&Ps. "The Nasdaq
break was cash led and when we (S&Ps) didn't break, Nasdaq came back,"
he says. (DMC)



10:20 (Dow Jones) With the exception of its announced $645 million buy
of Giganet Inc. (using 4 million of its shares), how much has changed at
Emulex (EMLX) in the past eight trading sessions? Well, the shares have
edged up about $70 in that span. Maybe the momentum players are back.
Stock up 8 at 177. (TG)



10:07 (Dow Jones) The euro continues to increase its following among
fund managers, with 75% choosing the single currency as their main
preference in the latest Merrill Lynch Dec. global fund manager survey,
up from 72% in Nov, and 68% in Oct. (GS)



10:03 (Dow Jones) DoubleClick's (DCLK) 4Q warning late Monday prompted
at least one analyst -- SG Cowen's Scott Reamer -- to downgrade the
online advertising company's stock. But the news lifted the company's
stock about 13% early Tuesday. Analysts said the positive response was
likely due to the perception that the bulk of bad news is now behind
DoubleClick. Some short-covering may have been at work as well, one
analyst said. Like other online ad companies and portals, DoubleClick
has been hit by a slowdown in ad spending as a result of the dot-com
shakeout. (RS)



9:57 (Dow Jones) Lehman says Ariba's (ARBA) $25 billion diluted market
cap overstates company's realistic growth prospects. Stock trades at 34
times 2001 revenue and 457 times 2001 cash earnings. Even with generous
assumptions, Lehman's 5-year rate of return model yields just 2.1%
annual return. Catalysts to upgrade of stock, currently rated neutral,
include acquisition of collaborative applications or significant
acceleration of network revenue. (TG)



9:46 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps are holding above the overnight low
support of 1394.60 as it trades weaker. Further support seen at 1394.10,
with better support at 1381.50. Resistance seen at 1408 and 1414.20,
according to off-floor trader. (DMC)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwcc04lim
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Hey, The NYSE Stays Open All The Time, Too 

1,087 words
12 December 2000
16:58
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



11:57 (Dow Jones) Chicago floor participants are a hearty stock, but
historical figures indicate just how dramatic the Windy City's snow
accumulation has been. According to the Chicago Sun-Times, Chicago
usually sees an average of 8.8 inches for the whole month of December.
Last night, the city received 12-14 inches of snow in one evening alone.
This all happened amid windchills upwards of 40-below. (CMN)



11:54 (Dow Jones) Scott & Stringfelllow's Dick Dickson isn't
concentrating on Nasdaq Composite's downside risk, which he now sees as
minimal. Instead, he's looking at upside potential, and says a close
above 3025 on heavy volume can bring index up to 3500-3800 level.
Expects market to work its way higher in next several weeks, led by
techs and finance. (TG)



11:39 (Dow Jones) Unofficial price talk for $2 billion WorldCom (WCOM)
issue sees yields about 190 bp over two-year Treasurys for a 10-year
tranche with a 2-year put/call and 215 bp over Treasurys for 5-year
tranche. (DA)



11:27 (Dow Jones) Five names favored by Prudential's chief technician,
Ralph Acampora: Qualcomm (QCOM), Unisys (UIS), Home Depot (HD), Wal-Mart
(WMT), and Dime Bancorp (DME). (TG)



11:11 (Dow Jones) Treasurys have shaved off some of their earlier
declines after Nasdaq began falling, but are still in negative
territory. Still, the Supreme Court vigil is keeping trade subdued.
(MSD)



10:59 (Dow Jones) The news coming out of General Motors (GM) is
knocking just a bit out of the stock. Some news already reported in
Journal, but the 4Q profit warning is a new revelation. Says 4Q net to
come in between $1.10 a share and $1.20 before items. Shares up 2.9%
after bigger gains earlier. (TG)



10:51 (Dow Jones) Improvement in Eastman Kodak (EK) shares Tuesday
being called "a marvel of short covering" by one well-connected trader.
Given the downbeat outlook for the 4Q - company guided to as low as 65
cents, from consensus $1.07 - and the full year, trader says there is no
fundamental rationale for getting into Kodak now. (ROB)



10:48 (Dow Jones) New open interest records were set for some CME
equity contracts. Nasdaq 100 set an open interest record of 58258,
surpassing the former record of 53656 set on Dec. 5. S&P 500 open
interest was 533476, breaking a record of 526315 made on Friday. S&P
Midcap also set an open interest record of 21138, vs. the former record
of 21024 set on Dec. 21, 1998. S&P Midcap also set a volume record of
7092, above the former record of 6593 made on Sept. 13, 1999. (DMC)



10:45 (Dow Jones) Philip Morris (MO) hires Salomon Smith Barney and
CSFB to lead IPO of Kraft, sources say. (ROB)



10:42 (Dow Jones) NAPM survey shows investment plans way down.
Manufacturing investment growth, projected at 4.9% in 2000, seen at 1.8%
in 2001. Notable that 2000 projection is itself the slowest increase
since 1991. Meanwhile, non-manufacturing investment seen up 6.0% in
2000, but up just 1.5% in 2001. (MC)



10:39 (Dow Jones) Wall Street has gotten used to big tech names
preannouncing weak numbers in recent weeks. Well, Tuesday's session,
while still containing some bleak views, has provided some better news
from a diverse group of huge names: Procter & Gamble (PG), Merck (MRK),
and General Electic (GE) all have backed numbers in some form. P&G and
Merck are helping the DJIA outperform Nasdaq, but GE is the blue-chip
barometer's second-worst-performing name, down 5%. (TG)



10:30 (Dow Jones) Still no pricing power for companies. NAPM's
semi-annual survey reports 86% of firms citing no or only minimal
ability to pass on cost increases to their customers. (MC)



10:28 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps await news from the Supreme Court, floor
traders say. "That's the only thing that's going to get this market to
start really trading," one floor trader says. March Nasdaq is also off
of its lows as the contract was pulled back by March S&Ps. "The Nasdaq
break was cash led and when we (S&Ps) didn't break, Nasdaq came back,"
he says. (DMC)



10:20 (Dow Jones) With the exception of its announced $645 million buy
of Giganet Inc. (using 4 million of its shares), how much has changed at
Emulex (EMLX) in the past eight trading sessions? Well, the shares have
edged up about $70 in that span. Maybe the momentum players are back.
Stock up 8 at 177. (TG)



10:07 (Dow Jones) The euro continues to increase its following among
fund managers, with 75% choosing the single currency as their main
preference in the latest Merrill Lynch Dec. global fund manager survey,
up from 72% in Nov, and 68% in Oct. (GS)



10:03 (Dow Jones) DoubleClick's (DCLK) 4Q warning late Monday prompted
at least one analyst -- SG Cowen's Scott Reamer -- to downgrade the
online advertising company's stock. But the news lifted the company's
stock about 13% early Tuesday. Analysts said the positive response was
likely due to the perception that the bulk of bad news is now behind
DoubleClick. Some short-covering may have been at work as well, one
analyst said. Like other online ad companies and portals, DoubleClick
has been hit by a slowdown in ad spending as a result of the dot-com
shakeout. (RS)



9:57 (Dow Jones) Lehman says Ariba's (ARBA) $25 billion diluted market
cap overstates company's realistic growth prospects. Stock trades at 34
times 2001 revenue and 457 times 2001 cash earnings. Even with generous
assumptions, Lehman's 5-year rate of return model yields just 2.1%
annual return. Catalysts to upgrade of stock, currently rated neutral,
include acquisition of collaborative applications or significant
acceleration of network revenue. (TG)



9:46 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps are holding above the overnight low
support of 1394.60 as it trades weaker. Further support seen at 1394.10,
with better support at 1381.50. Resistance seen at 1408 and 1414.20,
according to off-floor trader. (DMC)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwcc04lgr
?
 

 MARKET TALK: More Chance Of Upside For Nasdaq Than Downside 

1,015 words
12 December 2000
16:55
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



11:54 (Dow Jones) Scott & Stringfelllow's Dick Dickson isn't
concentrating on Nasdaq Composite's downside risk, which he now sees as
minimal. Instead, he's looking at upside potential, and says a close
above 3025 on heavy volume can bring index up to 3500-3800 level.
Expects market to work its way higher in next several weeks, led by
techs and finance. (TG)



11:39 (Dow Jones) Unofficial price talk for $2 billion WorldCom (WCOM)
issue sees yields about 190 bp over two-year Treasurys for a 10-year
tranche with a 2-year put/call and 215 bp over Treasurys for 5-year
tranche. (DA)



11:27 (Dow Jones) Five names favored by Prudential's chief technician,
Ralph Acampora: Qualcomm (QCOM), Unisys (UIS), Home Depot (HD), Wal-Mart
(WMT), and Dime Bancorp (DME). (TG)



11:11 (Dow Jones) Treasurys have shaved off some of their earlier
declines after Nasdaq began falling, but are still in negative
territory. Still, the Supreme Court vigil is keeping trade subdued.
(MSD)



10:59 (Dow Jones) The news coming out of General Motors (GM) is
knocking just a bit out of the stock. Some news already reported in
Journal, but the 4Q profit warning is a new revelation. Says 4Q net to
come in between $1.10 a share and $1.20 before items. Shares up 2.9%
after bigger gains earlier. (TG)



10:51 (Dow Jones) Improvement in Eastman Kodak (EK) shares Tuesday
being called "a marvel of short covering" by one well-connected trader.
Given the downbeat outlook for the 4Q - company guided to as low as 65
cents, from consensus $1.07 - and the full year, trader says there is no
fundamental rationale for getting into Kodak now. (ROB)



10:48 (Dow Jones) New open interest records were set for some CME
equity contracts. Nasdaq 100 set an open interest record of 58258,
surpassing the former record of 53656 set on Dec. 5. S&P 500 open
interest was 533476, breaking a record of 526315 made on Friday. S&P
Midcap also set an open interest record of 21138, vs. the former record
of 21024 set on Dec. 21, 1998. S&P Midcap also set a volume record of
7092, above the former record of 6593 made on Sept. 13, 1999. (DMC)



10:45 (Dow Jones) Philip Morris (MO) hires Salomon Smith Barney and
CSFB to lead IPO of Kraft, sources say. (ROB)



10:42 (Dow Jones) NAPM survey shows investment plans way down.
Manufacturing investment growth, projected at 4.9% in 2000, seen at 1.8%
in 2001. Notable that 2000 projection is itself the slowest increase
since 1991. Meanwhile, non-manufacturing investment seen up 6.0% in
2000, but up just 1.5% in 2001. (MC)



10:39 (Dow Jones) Wall Street has gotten used to big tech names
preannouncing weak numbers in recent weeks. Well, Tuesday's session,
while still containing some bleak views, has provided some better news
from a diverse group of huge names: Procter & Gamble (PG), Merck (MRK),
and General Electic (GE) all have backed numbers in some form. P&G and
Merck are helping the DJIA outperform Nasdaq, but GE is the blue-chip
barometer's second-worst-performing name, down 5%. (TG)



10:30 (Dow Jones) Still no pricing power for companies. NAPM's
semi-annual survey reports 86% of firms citing no or only minimal
ability to pass on cost increases to their customers. (MC)



10:28 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps await news from the Supreme Court, floor
traders say. "That's the only thing that's going to get this market to
start really trading," one floor trader says. March Nasdaq is also off
of its lows as the contract was pulled back by March S&Ps. "The Nasdaq
break was cash led and when we (S&Ps) didn't break, Nasdaq came back,"
he says. (DMC)



10:20 (Dow Jones) With the exception of its announced $645 million buy
of Giganet Inc. (using 4 million of its shares), how much has changed at
Emulex (EMLX) in the past eight trading sessions? Well, the shares have
edged up about $70 in that span. Maybe the momentum players are back.
Stock up 8 at 177. (TG)



10:07 (Dow Jones) The euro continues to increase its following among
fund managers, with 75% choosing the single currency as their main
preference in the latest Merrill Lynch Dec. global fund manager survey,
up from 72% in Nov, and 68% in Oct. (GS)



10:03 (Dow Jones) DoubleClick's (DCLK) 4Q warning late Monday prompted
at least one analyst -- SG Cowen's Scott Reamer -- to downgrade the
online advertising company's stock. But the news lifted the company's
stock about 13% early Tuesday. Analysts said the positive response was
likely due to the perception that the bulk of bad news is now behind
DoubleClick. Some short-covering may have been at work as well, one
analyst said. Like other online ad companies and portals, DoubleClick
has been hit by a slowdown in ad spending as a result of the dot-com
shakeout. (RS)



9:57 (Dow Jones) Lehman says Ariba's (ARBA) $25 billion diluted market
cap overstates company's realistic growth prospects. Stock trades at 34
times 2001 revenue and 457 times 2001 cash earnings. Even with generous
assumptions, Lehman's 5-year rate of return model yields just 2.1%
annual return. Catalysts to upgrade of stock, currently rated neutral,
include acquisition of collaborative applications or significant
acceleration of network revenue. (TG)



9:46 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps are holding above the overnight low
support of 1394.60 as it trades weaker. Further support seen at 1394.10,
with better support at 1381.50. Resistance seen at 1408 and 1414.20,
according to off-floor trader. (DMC)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwcc04lgm
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Unofficial Price Talk On Worldcom Issue 

947 words
12 December 2000
16:41
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



11:39 (Dow Jones) Unofficial price talk for $2 billion WorldCom (WCOM)
issue sees yields about 190 bp over two-year Treasurys for a 10-year
tranche with a 2-year put/call and 215 bp over Treasurys for 5-year
tranche. (DA)



11:27 (Dow Jones) Five names favored by Prudential's chief technician,
Ralph Acampora: Qualcomm (QCOM), Unisys (UIS), Home Depot (HD), Wal-Mart
(WMT), and Dime Bancorp (DME). (TG)



11:11 (Dow Jones) Treasurys have shaved off some of their earlier
declines after Nasdaq began falling, but are still in negative
territory. Still, the Supreme Court vigil is keeping trade subdued.
(MSD)



10:59 (Dow Jones) The news coming out of General Motors (GM) is
knocking just a bit out of the stock. Some news already reported in
Journal, but the 4Q profit warning is a new revelation. Says 4Q net to
come in between $1.10 a share and $1.20 before items. Shares up 2.9%
after bigger gains earlier. (TG)



10:51 (Dow Jones) Improvement in Eastman Kodak (EK) shares Tuesday
being called "a marvel of short covering" by one well-connected trader.
Given the downbeat outlook for the 4Q - company guided to as low as 65
cents, from consensus $1.07 - and the full year, trader says there is no
fundamental rationale for getting into Kodak now. (ROB)



10:48 (Dow Jones) New open interest records were set for some CME
equity contracts. Nasdaq 100 set an open interest record of 58258,
surpassing the former record of 53656 set on Dec. 5. S&P 500 open
interest was 533476, breaking a record of 526315 made on Friday. S&P
Midcap also set an open interest record of 21138, vs. the former record
of 21024 set on Dec. 21, 1998. S&P Midcap also set a volume record of
7092, above the former record of 6593 made on Sept. 13, 1999. (DMC)



10:45 (Dow Jones) Philip Morris (MO) hires Salomon Smith Barney and
CSFB to lead IPO of Kraft, sources say. (ROB)



10:42 (Dow Jones) NAPM survey shows investment plans way down.
Manufacturing investment growth, projected at 4.9% in 2000, seen at 1.8%
in 2001. Notable that 2000 projection is itself the slowest increase
since 1991. Meanwhile, non-manufacturing investment seen up 6.0% in
2000, but up just 1.5% in 2001. (MC)



10:39 (Dow Jones) Wall Street has gotten used to big tech names
preannouncing weak numbers in recent weeks. Well, Tuesday's session,
while still containing some bleak views, has provided some better news
from a diverse group of huge names: Procter & Gamble (PG), Merck (MRK),
and General Electic (GE) all have backed numbers in some form. P&G and
Merck are helping the DJIA outperform Nasdaq, but GE is the blue-chip
barometer's second-worst-performing name, down 5%. (TG)



10:30 (Dow Jones) Still no pricing power for companies. NAPM's
semi-annual survey reports 86% of firms citing no or only minimal
ability to pass on cost increases to their customers. (MC)



10:28 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps await news from the Supreme Court, floor
traders say. "That's the only thing that's going to get this market to
start really trading," one floor trader says. March Nasdaq is also off
of its lows as the contract was pulled back by March S&Ps. "The Nasdaq
break was cash led and when we (S&Ps) didn't break, Nasdaq came back,"
he says. (DMC)



10:20 (Dow Jones) With the exception of its announced $645 million buy
of Giganet Inc. (using 4 million of its shares), how much has changed at
Emulex (EMLX) in the past eight trading sessions? Well, the shares have
edged up about $70 in that span. Maybe the momentum players are back.
Stock up 8 at 177. (TG)



10:07 (Dow Jones) The euro continues to increase its following among
fund managers, with 75% choosing the single currency as their main
preference in the latest Merrill Lynch Dec. global fund manager survey,
up from 72% in Nov, and 68% in Oct. (GS)



10:03 (Dow Jones) DoubleClick's (DCLK) 4Q warning late Monday prompted
at least one analyst -- SG Cowen's Scott Reamer -- to downgrade the
online advertising company's stock. But the news lifted the company's
stock about 13% early Tuesday. Analysts said the positive response was
likely due to the perception that the bulk of bad news is now behind
DoubleClick. Some short-covering may have been at work as well, one
analyst said. Like other online ad companies and portals, DoubleClick
has been hit by a slowdown in ad spending as a result of the dot-com
shakeout. (RS)



9:57 (Dow Jones) Lehman says Ariba's (ARBA) $25 billion diluted market
cap overstates company's realistic growth prospects. Stock trades at 34
times 2001 revenue and 457 times 2001 cash earnings. Even with generous
assumptions, Lehman's 5-year rate of return model yields just 2.1%
annual return. Catalysts to upgrade of stock, currently rated neutral,
include acquisition of collaborative applications or significant
acceleration of network revenue. (TG)



9:46 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps are holding above the overnight low
support of 1394.60 as it trades weaker. Further support seen at 1394.10,
with better support at 1381.50. Resistance seen at 1408 and 1414.20,
according to off-floor trader. (DMC)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwcc04lfq
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Acampora Likes Qualcomm, Unisys, Others 

903 words
12 December 2000
16:28
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



11:27 (Dow Jones) Five names favored by Prudential's chief technician,
Ralph Acampora: Qualcomm (QCOM), Unisys (UIS), Home Depot (HD), Wal-Mart
(WMT), and Dime Bancorp (DME). (TG)



11:11 (Dow Jones) Treasurys have shaved off some of their earlier
declines after Nasdaq began falling, but are still in negative
territory. Still, the Supreme Court vigil is keeping trade subdued.
(MSD)



10:59 (Dow Jones) The news coming out of General Motors (GM) is
knocking just a bit out of the stock. Some news already reported in
Journal, but the 4Q profit warning is a new revelation. Says 4Q net to
come in between $1.10 a share and $1.20 before items. Shares up 2.9%
after bigger gains earlier. (TG)



10:51 (Dow Jones) Improvement in Eastman Kodak (EK) shares Tuesday
being called "a marvel of short covering" by one well-connected trader.
Given the downbeat outlook for the 4Q - company guided to as low as 65
cents, from consensus $1.07 - and the full year, trader says there is no
fundamental rationale for getting into Kodak now. (ROB)



10:48 (Dow Jones) New open interest records were set for some CME
equity contracts. Nasdaq 100 set an open interest record of 58258,
surpassing the former record of 53656 set on Dec. 5. S&P 500 open
interest was 533476, breaking a record of 526315 made on Friday. S&P
Midcap also set an open interest record of 21138, vs. the former record
of 21024 set on Dec. 21, 1998. S&P Midcap also set a volume record of
7092, above the former record of 6593 made on Sept. 13, 1999. (DMC)



10:45 (Dow Jones) Philip Morris (MO) hires Salomon Smith Barney and
CSFB to lead IPO of Kraft, sources say. (ROB)



10:42 (Dow Jones) NAPM survey shows investment plans way down.
Manufacturing investment growth, projected at 4.9% in 2000, seen at 1.8%
in 2001. Notable that 2000 projection is itself the slowest increase
since 1991. Meanwhile, non-manufacturing investment seen up 6.0% in
2000, but up just 1.5% in 2001. (MC)



10:39 (Dow Jones) Wall Street has gotten used to big tech names
preannouncing weak numbers in recent weeks. Well, Tuesday's session,
while still containing some bleak views, has provided some better news
from a diverse group of huge names: Procter & Gamble (PG), Merck (MRK),
and General Electic (GE) all have backed numbers in some form. P&G and
Merck are helping the DJIA outperform Nasdaq, but GE is the blue-chip
barometer's second-worst-performing name, down 5%. (TG)



10:30 (Dow Jones) Still no pricing power for companies. NAPM's
semi-annual survey reports 86% of firms citing no or only minimal
ability to pass on cost increases to their customers. (MC)



10:28 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps await news from the Supreme Court, floor
traders say. "That's the only thing that's going to get this market to
start really trading," one floor trader says. March Nasdaq is also off
of its lows as the contract was pulled back by March S&Ps. "The Nasdaq
break was cash led and when we (S&Ps) didn't break, Nasdaq came back,"
he says. (DMC)



10:20 (Dow Jones) With the exception of its announced $645 million buy
of Giganet Inc. (using 4 million of its shares), how much has changed at
Emulex (EMLX) in the past eight trading sessions? Well, the shares have
edged up about $70 in that span. Maybe the momentum players are back.
Stock up 8 at 177. (TG)



10:07 (Dow Jones) The euro continues to increase its following among
fund managers, with 75% choosing the single currency as their main
preference in the latest Merrill Lynch Dec. global fund manager survey,
up from 72% in Nov, and 68% in Oct. (GS)



10:03 (Dow Jones) DoubleClick's (DCLK) 4Q warning late Monday prompted
at least one analyst -- SG Cowen's Scott Reamer -- to downgrade the
online advertising company's stock. But the news lifted the company's
stock about 13% early Tuesday. Analysts said the positive response was
likely due to the perception that the bulk of bad news is now behind
DoubleClick. Some short-covering may have been at work as well, one
analyst said. Like other online ad companies and portals, DoubleClick
has been hit by a slowdown in ad spending as a result of the dot-com
shakeout. (RS)



9:57 (Dow Jones) Lehman says Ariba's (ARBA) $25 billion diluted market
cap overstates company's realistic growth prospects. Stock trades at 34
times 2001 revenue and 457 times 2001 cash earnings. Even with generous
assumptions, Lehman's 5-year rate of return model yields just 2.1%
annual return. Catalysts to upgrade of stock, currently rated neutral,
include acquisition of collaborative applications or significant
acceleration of network revenue. (TG)



9:46 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps are holding above the overnight low
support of 1394.60 as it trades weaker. Further support seen at 1394.10,
with better support at 1381.50. Resistance seen at 1408 and 1414.20,
according to off-floor trader. (DMC)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwcc04lf7
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Tsys Get Back Some Losses, But Still Soft 

877 words
12 December 2000
16:12
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



11:11 (Dow Jones) Treasurys have shaved off some of their earlier
declines after Nasdaq began falling, but are still in negative
territory. Still, the Supreme Court vigil is keeping trade subdued.
(MSD)



10:59 (Dow Jones) The news coming out of General Motors (GM) is
knocking just a bit out of the stock. Some news already reported in
Journal, but the 4Q profit warning is a new revelation. Says 4Q net to
come in between $1.10 a share and $1.20 before items. Shares up 2.9%
after bigger gains earlier. (TG)



10:51 (Dow Jones) Improvement in Eastman Kodak (EK) shares Tuesday
being called "a marvel of short covering" by one well-connected trader.
Given the downbeat outlook for the 4Q - company guided to as low as 65
cents, from consensus $1.07 - and the full year, trader says there is no
fundamental rationale for getting into Kodak now. (ROB)



10:48 (Dow Jones) New open interest records were set for some CME
equity contracts. Nasdaq 100 set an open interest record of 58258,
surpassing the former record of 53656 set on Dec. 5. S&P 500 open
interest was 533476, breaking a record of 526315 made on Friday. S&P
Midcap also set an open interest record of 21138, vs. the former record
of 21024 set on Dec. 21, 1998. S&P Midcap also set a volume record of
7092, above the former record of 6593 made on Sept. 13, 1999. (DMC)



10:45 (Dow Jones) Philip Morris (MO) hires Salomon Smith Barney and
CSFB to lead IPO of Kraft, sources say. (ROB)



10:42 (Dow Jones) NAPM survey shows investment plans way down.
Manufacturing investment growth, projected at 4.9% in 2000, seen at 1.8%
in 2001. Notable that 2000 projection is itself the slowest increase
since 1991. Meanwhile, non-manufacturing investment seen up 6.0% in
2000, but up just 1.5% in 2001. (MC)



10:39 (Dow Jones) Wall Street has gotten used to big tech names
preannouncing weak numbers in recent weeks. Well, Tuesday's session,
while still containing some bleak views, has provided some better news
from a diverse group of huge names: Procter & Gamble (PG), Merck (MRK),
and General Electic (GE) all have backed numbers in some form. P&G and
Merck are helping the DJIA outperform Nasdaq, but GE is the blue-chip
barometer's second-worst-performing name, down 5%. (TG)



10:30 (Dow Jones) Still no pricing power for companies. NAPM's
semi-annual survey reports 86% of firms citing no or only minimal
ability to pass on cost increases to their customers. (MC)



10:28 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps await news from the Supreme Court, floor
traders say. "That's the only thing that's going to get this market to
start really trading," one floor trader says. March Nasdaq is also off
of its lows as the contract was pulled back by March S&Ps. "The Nasdaq
break was cash led and when we (S&Ps) didn't break, Nasdaq came back,"
he says. (DMC)



10:20 (Dow Jones) With the exception of its announced $645 million buy
of Giganet Inc. (using 4 million of its shares), how much has changed at
Emulex (EMLX) in the past eight trading sessions? Well, the shares have
edged up about $70 in that span. Maybe the momentum players are back.
Stock up 8 at 177. (TG)



10:07 (Dow Jones) The euro continues to increase its following among
fund managers, with 75% choosing the single currency as their main
preference in the latest Merrill Lynch Dec. global fund manager survey,
up from 72% in Nov, and 68% in Oct. (GS)



10:03 (Dow Jones) DoubleClick's (DCLK) 4Q warning late Monday prompted
at least one analyst -- SG Cowen's Scott Reamer -- to downgrade the
online advertising company's stock. But the news lifted the company's
stock about 13% early Tuesday. Analysts said the positive response was
likely due to the perception that the bulk of bad news is now behind
DoubleClick. Some short-covering may have been at work as well, one
analyst said. Like other online ad companies and portals, DoubleClick
has been hit by a slowdown in ad spending as a result of the dot-com
shakeout. (RS)



9:57 (Dow Jones) Lehman says Ariba's (ARBA) $25 billion diluted market
cap overstates company's realistic growth prospects. Stock trades at 34
times 2001 revenue and 457 times 2001 cash earnings. Even with generous
assumptions, Lehman's 5-year rate of return model yields just 2.1%
annual return. Catalysts to upgrade of stock, currently rated neutral,
include acquisition of collaborative applications or significant
acceleration of network revenue. (TG)



9:46 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps are holding above the overnight low
support of 1394.60 as it trades weaker. Further support seen at 1394.10,
with better support at 1381.50. Resistance seen at 1408 and 1414.20,
according to off-floor trader. (DMC)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwcc04lcs
?
 

 MARKET TALK: GM Shares Slip After 4Q Warning 

1,378 words
12 December 2000
16:00
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:59 (Dow Jones) The news coming out of General Motors (GM) is
knocking just a bit out of the stock. Some news already reported in
Journal, but the 4Q profit warning is a new revelation. Says 4Q net to
come in between $1.10 a share and $1.20 before items. Shares up 2.9%
after bigger gains earlier. (TG)



10:51 (Dow Jones) Improvement in Eastman Kodak (EK) shares Tuesday
being called "a marvel of short covering" by one well-connected trader.
Given the downbeat outlook for the 4Q - company guided to as low as 65
cents, from consensus $1.07 - and the full year, trader says there is no
fundamental rationale for getting into Kodak now. (ROB)



10:48 (Dow Jones) New open interest records were set for some CME
equity contracts. Nasdaq 100 set an open interest record of 58258,
surpassing the former record of 53656 set on Dec. 5. S&P 500 open
interest was 533476, breaking a record of 526315 made on Friday. S&P
Midcap also set an open interest record of 21138, vs. the former record
of 21024 set on Dec. 21, 1998. S&P Midcap also set a volume record of
7092, above the former record of 6593 made on Sept. 13, 1999. (DMC)



10:45 (Dow Jones) Philip Morris (MO) hires Salomon Smith Barney and
CSFB to lead IPO of Kraft, sources say. (ROB)



10:42 (Dow Jones) NAPM survey shows investment plans way down.
Manufacturing investment growth, projected at 4.9% in 2000, seen at 1.8%
in 2001. Notable that 2000 projection is itself the slowest increase
since 1991. Meanwhile, non-manufacturing investment seen up 6.0% in
2000, but up just 1.5% in 2001. (MC)



10:39 (Dow Jones) Wall Street has gotten used to big tech names
preannouncing weak numbers in recent weeks. Well, Tuesday's session,
while still containing some bleak views, has provided some better news
from a diverse group of huge names: Procter & Gamble (PG), Merck (MRK),
and General Electic (GE) all have backed numbers in some form. P&G and
Merck are helping the DJIA outperform Nasdaq, but GE is the blue-chip
barometer's second-worst-performing name, down 5%. (TG)



10:30 (Dow Jones) Still no pricing power for companies. NAPM's
semi-annual survey reports 86% of firms citing no or only minimal
ability to pass on cost increases to their customers. (MC)



10:28 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps await news from the Supreme Court, floor
traders say. "That's the only thing that's going to get this market to
start really trading," one floor trader says. March Nasdaq is also off
of its lows as the contract was pulled back by March S&Ps. "The Nasdaq
break was cash led and when we (S&Ps) didn't break, Nasdaq came back,"
he says. (DMC)



10:20 (Dow Jones) With the exception of its announced $645 million buy
of Giganet Inc. (using 4 million of its shares), how much has changed at
Emulex (EMLX) in the past eight trading sessions? Well, the shares have
edged up about $70 in that span. Maybe the momentum players are back.
Stock up 8 at 177. (TG)



10:07 (Dow Jones) The euro continues to increase its following among
fund managers, with 75% choosing the single currency as their main
preference in the latest Merrill Lynch Dec. global fund manager survey,
up from 72% in Nov, and 68% in Oct. (GS)



10:03 (Dow Jones) DoubleClick's (DCLK) 4Q warning late Monday prompted
at least one analyst -- SG Cowen's Scott Reamer -- to downgrade the
online advertising company's stock. But the news lifted the company's
stock about 13% early Tuesday. Analysts said the positive response was
likely due to the perception that the bulk of bad news is now behind
DoubleClick. Some short-covering may have been at work as well, one
analyst said. Like other online ad companies and portals, DoubleClick
has been hit by a slowdown in ad spending as a result of the dot-com
shakeout. (RS)



9:57 (Dow Jones) Lehman says Ariba's (ARBA) $25 billion diluted market
cap overstates company's realistic growth prospects. Stock trades at 34
times 2001 revenue and 457 times 2001 cash earnings. Even with generous
assumptions, Lehman's 5-year rate of return model yields just 2.1%
annual return. Catalysts to upgrade of stock, currently rated neutral,
include acquisition of collaborative applications or significant
acceleration of network revenue. (TG)



9:46 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps are holding above the overnight low
support of 1394.60 as it trades weaker. Further support seen at 1394.10,
with better support at 1381.50. Resistance seen at 1408 and 1414.20,
according to off-floor trader. (DMC)



9:40 (Dow Jones) A growing number of investors are saying that tech
stocks bouncing after bad news is an indication these names have been
washed out. That may be true, particularly on a short-term basis, but
it's a dangerous game to play given that plenty of analysts, who
continue to downgrade many of these stocks, say Wall Street is still too
optimistic about 1Q numbers. (TG)



9:33 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps and Nasdaq open weaker, finding pressure
from overnight weakness. Off-floor trader says markets likely to
consolidate to the downside after Monday's sharp gains. Focus for
contracts is on the Supreme Court and any earnings warnings. (DMC)



9:25 (Dow Jones) A little more evidence that the profit slowdown isn't
a tech-exclusive affair: Goldman cuts DuPont (DD) 2000 EPS view to $2.68
from $2.78, and 2001 view to $2.50 from $2.80. Stock rated market
outperform. (TG)



9:19 (Dow Jones) Chase H&Q analysts are calling online bond trading
platform eSpeed (ESPD) a "strong buy" on prospects for strong 4Q
results. They're looking for the company to see $32.7 million in 4Q
revenue, and  profitability could come to eSpeed in the last quarter of
next year. (MSD)



9:15 (Dow Jones) Slow holiday sales and overstocked inventories likely
to keep ratings and bond yield spreads at risk for some weaker
retailers, say Bear Stearns. (DA)



9:12 (Dow Jones) Prudential's chief investment strategist Greg Smith
says Oracle (ORCL) numbers Thursday will be pivotal event in determining
tech rally through end of the year. He says there will be plenty of
issues to deal with starting next year, but a good report will push B2B
and business internet groups to a very strong finish of year. "There are
many people out there who are desperate to get to break even," he says.
"The cash is out there to make a pretty good run at it. We are looking
for a year-end rally and then we will go back and revisit all these
other problems." (TG)



9:04 (Dow Jones) Stock index futures are expected to open on time, at
9:30 a.m. ET, according to CME, despite the heavy snows Monday and
overnight and near zero temps. (DMC)



9:02 (Dow Jones) BTM-UBSW U.S. Chain Store Sales -0.3% in Dec. 9 week
as retailers saw a "markedly disappointing"  result, clearly below plan
and adversely affected in some areas by bad weather. Last week was
second consecutive week the sales fell on a week-to-week basis.
Year-over-year, sales momentum slowed to a 3.1% growth pace for the week
ended Dec. 9 from 3.5% in the prior week. (JNP)



9:00 (Dow Jones) The final cut always seems to be the unkindest for
IPOs. GenVec (GNVC), a biotech company, lowered the range on its IPO of
4 million shares yesterday from between $14 and $16 a share to between
$11 and $12. Early Tuesday, the deal priced even lower, at $9.50. A
bright side: these kinds of price cuts have helped the shares gain a
little in the aftermarket. (RJH)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwcc04laq
?
 

 ON24 Audio Investor Alert: Analyst: DLCK Has No Visibility in the Future 

108 words
12 December 2000
00:33
Business Wire
BWR
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Business Wire) 

 --(BUSINESS WIRE)-- 

 Shares of DoubleClick rise nearly 9% in after hours trading despite its profit warning. Jefferies and Company analyst Michael Legg gives advice to investors. 

 For the complete streaming audio story users should access http://www.on24.com/index.html?id=46408&type=av&ref=bizwire

 Ticker: (Nasdaq:DCLK) 

 Company: DoubleClick Inc. 

 To personalize your free audio/video investor alerts visit http://www.on24.com

 To view other online streaming audio and video investor releases, visit http://www.on24.com. 

Document bwr0000020010804dwcc05g1u
?
 

Business; Share Market
American Surge Leaves Investors Stumped

Brian Hale   
766 words
11 December 2000
Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
40
English
© 2000 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.   www.smh.com.au

No one will be rushing to hit the buy button.

Wall Street is not counting on a continuation of the solid rise in its major share indices at the end of last week until it figures out why they rose.

Short-covering seemed to be the main cause of the rise. It wasn't the presidential election saga and it's too easy to credit the November jobs report. Too much went wrong during the week as much of the technology sector called in sick again for the mildly better-than-expected jobs numbers to make that much difference.

And whether they were better than expected is open to interpretation. The bond market didn't think so. Fed funds futures contracts downgraded the odds of a near-term interest rate cut by selling the contracts while Treasury note and bond prices fell.

Bondies were most struck by the November employment report's revelation that wages and salaries rose at the fastest pace in nearly two years (0.4 per cent, lifting the earnings growth rate to 4 per cent).

For them that threw cold water on expectations of a near-term rate cut to stimulate economic growth even though non-farm payrolls grew 94,000 compared with the 137,000 expected, and unemployment rose to 4 per cent from 3.9 per cent.

The bond market thinks the Fed will hesitate to lower interest rates even though economic growth is slowing as long as it sees risks of rising inflation.

In the equity market, many believe the continuing profit squeeze and decline in manufacturing overtime hours point to weaker wage gains ahead, so any softening in the labour market further supports the case for the Fed to remove its tightening bias and ease rates early next year.

But even Merrill Lynch's chief economist, Bruce Steinberg, was quick to caution on Friday that ``we would not take this report to construe that the Fed will automatically ease in January as opposed to March''.

So why did Nasdaq's Composite index bounce 163.36 points (5.9 per cent) higher on Friday, with the Dow gaining 0.9 per cent and the S&P 500 index adding 2 per cent when the bond market headed in the opposite direction?

It's hard to credit sudden enthusiasm from retail investors. Trim Tabs estimates that equity funds investing primarily in US stocks had inflows of $US4.6 billion ($8.4 million) in the week to Wednesday, compared with inflows of just $US100 million in the previous week.

But AMG estimates that mutual fund investors were net sellers of domestic equity funds for the third time in four weeks, pulling out another $US2.9 billion with technology sector funds hard hit.

That leaves short-covering as a prime spark for Friday's performance, which was more puzzling than it might seem because Intel's profit warning the previous evening was expected to prompt another tanking.

The perennial bulls were quick to start talking about the market's ability to shake off bad news as a sign that the worst is behind.

As for the shorters, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission reported a huge level of short positions that may have set the market up for a big short-covering rally.

There's other evidence for their input. Nasdaq 100 futures were up significantly and S&P 500 futures were also up firmly well before the jobs numbers and the opening bell on Friday. Despite the Intel warning they'd headed there in Globex trading on Thursday evening.

That doesn't mean the shorts might not prove the spark for the Christmas rally that Wall Street desperately wants. But there isn't much winter kindling around to ignite, even though Fed chairman Alan Greenspan last week finally heeded the howls for relief that have been coming from the financial community.

Santa Alan's blunt cataloguing of the woes troubling credit and equity markets was topped only by his warning that bankers shouldn't worsen things by tightening lending too much.

Unfortunately credit quality is deteriorating and New Economy equity investments are being re-priced whether they're ``concept'' telecommunications companies or the Internet's ``new media''.

At the same time, technology's growth leaders are posting lesser numbers that remove the justification for sky-high multiples.

Thus, whatever the spark for Friday's gains, a few experienced hands were talking about the start of a false trading rally and telling investors to sell into it. 

Document smhh000020010813dwcb00xmh
?
 

 UPDATE 1-Microchip Tech warns sales will fall short. 

458 words
11 December 2000
23:07
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 (recasts lede, changes dateline pvs Chandler, Ariz., adds details, background, throughout, after-hours stock activity) 

 NEW YORK, Dec 11 (Reuters) - Specialty semiconductor maker Microchip Technology Inc. on Monday warned its fiscal third-quarter sales would fall short of expectations because of an inventory backup among its distributors, a problem it does not see being resolved until next spring. 

 Shares of the Chandler, Ariz., company fell 18 percent in after-hours trading, compounding earlier losses, following the warning, the latest of many weak sales and profit outlooks in the cyclical semiconductor sector as companies begin to feel the effects of a softer economy. 

 Microchip Tech, whose chips are used in such devices as keyless locks, garage door openers and smart cards, said it expects net sales in the current quarter to be flat with the $176.3 million reported in the second quarter, plus or minus a couple of percentage points. 

 Although sales in Microchip's U.S., Europe, Asia and Japan channels are tracking to the earlier guidance, November sales by distributors were lower than management's expectations, the company said in a statement. More than half of its sales come from distributors. 

 Wall Street analysts on average are expecting the company to earn 36 cents per share in its third quarter, according to research firm First Call/Thomson Financial. That would be up 64 percent from 22 cents per share a year earlier and up 9 percent from the second quarter's 33 cents per share. 

 "Currently, we are projecting that the impact of this distribution inventory correction will last through the March 2001 quarter. Despite this, our new products and customer design win activity remain strong," Microchip Tech President and Chief Executive Officer Steve Sanghi said in a statement. 

 Microchip also said it would delay the start a new manufacturing facility in Puyallup, Wash., from August 2001 to June 2002. The company said it will also delay capacity expansion plans at its facility in Tempe, Ariz. 

 In after-hours trading, the stock fell to $22 from its regular-session close of $26-11/16 on Nasdaq. The stock had already fallen $2-11/16, or more than 9 percent, on the day. The stock has a 52-week range of $19-1/2 to $51-9/16. 

 About an hour after Microchip issued its sales warning, Advanced Micro Devices Inc., the No. 2 maker of chips for personal computers, warned of a sales and earnings shortfall because of the fall-off in PC sales. 

 In recent weeks such marquee names in the technology sector as Intel Corp., Motorola Inc., Dell Computer Corp., Gateway Inc. and Apple Computer Inc. have all told Wall Street to expect weaker results. 

Document lba0000020010823dwcb00ub3
?
Newscast: Business news and stock report   

395 words
11 December 2000
CBS News: Morning News
CBSM
English
(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

JULIE CHEN, anchor:   

On the CBS MarketWatch, earnings and the election setting the tone for the week ahead. Renay San Miguel reports.   

RENAY SAN MIGUEL reporting:   

Forget about that Jim Carrey guy, investors may be thinking the real Grinches this Christmas are those tech companies that keep issuing profit warnings. That'll be the focus for Wall Street this week as we get closer to the end of the year which also means the end of the calendar fourth quarter and that means earnings season will soon be here.   

Last week, Apple,  Motorola and  Intel were at the top of Santa's naughty list, all of them warning that weak consumer demand was hurting their profit outlooks. Yet, of those three,  Intel, which warned late last Thursday, saw its stock do the best against the bad news. On Friday,  Intel was actually up more than $1.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Intel (INTC)   

Up 1 1/16 to 34   

SAN MIGUEL: Analysts said the markets expected the chipmaker to warn, thanks to slowing PC sales. That fact, plus a smaller-than-expected jump in new jobs and reports from Florida that the presidential election, that wouldn't go away, may be finally going away helped bring the Dow up 95 points on Friday.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Dow Jones Industrials   

10,712.91   

Up 95.55   

Volume: 1,358,330,000   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

SAN MIGUEL: The NASDAQ also had a good day. It was up 164 points.   

(Graphic on screen)   

NASDAQ   

2,917.43   

Up 164.77   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

SAN MIGUEL: In addition to being on the outlook for more profit warnings, investors will be keeping an eye on the latest economic indicators in advance to the December 19th Federal Reserve meeting. We'll get the latest numbers on retail sales for November, the Producer Price Index, or rather, how much it costs companies to make their goods and services and the Consumer Price Index, how much it's costing us to buy those goods and services, excluding food and energy.   

I'm Renay San Miguel, CBS MarketWatch, New York.   

CHEN: For the latest on the markets, click on cbs.marketwatch.com.   

Straight ahead on the morning news, your Monday morning forecast. And in sports, a season-ending concussion and a career in doubt for Cowboys quarterback Troy Aikman.   

(Announcements)   

Document CBSM000020070818dwcb003b4
?
 

 CURRENTS & BOOKS 
 And The Drama Continues... / A Tough Call Made Openly And Honestly 

 Eric M. Freedman. Eric M. Freedman is a professor of law at Hofstra University, where he teaches constitutional law, legal history, and advocacy skills. 
756 words
10 December 2000
Newsday
NDAY
ALL EDITIONS
B04
English
 (Copyright Newsday Inc., 2000) 

 THE IMPORTANCE OF the Florida Supreme Court's order of Friday that ambiguous presidential ballots from around the state be hand-counted is not so much in affecting the outcome of the election-which will be determined by national, not state, judicial decisions and political forces-but in allowing the public a rare opportunity for the thoughtful evaluation of a judicial decision. 

 Public commentary on court rulings too frequently begins and ends with whether the commentator likes the outcome. If the commentator does not, then he or she is quick to blame the event on gross political bias on the part of the court and a propensity to rewrite rather than follow the law. 

 Thus, politicians commonly demand that judicial nominees promise to refrain from "legislating from the bench," even though those same politicians are quick to praise judicial rulings whose results they favor ideologically, regardless of whether the decisions find support in the history, text or structure of the text that the court was supposed to be construing. 

 The Florida Supreme Court's opinion shows the shallowness of this sort of reaction. The result of a court case will necessarily favor one side or the other and disappoint the loser. That tells us nothing. What we must ask in evaluating our judges is whether they wrestled honestly with the relevant issues and rendered a judgment based on their openly expressed assessments of which factors deserved the most weight in the case at hand. 

 On this occasion, the justices of the Florida Supreme Court did their jobs well. At oral argument (which, in a practice that should be followed in all courtrooms, was televised for public edification), they were plainly grappling conscientiously with the tangle of issues presented and in their opinions they laid out clearly the varying considerations that led them to their differing conclusions. 

 All the justices recognized that reaching a decision, any decision, would require charting a path through a wilderness of both state and federal legal authority-constitutional, legislative and judicial-containing elements that were at best obscure and at worst outright inconsistent. Thus, as is commonly the case, there was not one determinate answer that "the law" required. 

 The majority attacked that problem this way: " common-sense approach is required, so that the purpose of the statute ... to give effect to ... the right to vote will not be frustrated." Reading the various legislative enactments in light of this purpose, the majority concluded that the statutes required there to be a counting process that gave effect to every ballot on which there is "clear indication of the intent of the voter." 

 Chief Justice Charles Wells dissented, even while observing that he did "not question the good faith or honorable intentions of my colleagues in the majority." For him, "udicial restraint in respect to elections is absolutely necessary"-even where a court finds unfairness in the procedures-because of the potential of "a crisis with the other branches of government." Thus, he read the statutes to grant a heavy measure of discretion to the counting authorities and concluded that they had not abused their discretion in this case. 

 In a separate dissent, Justice Major Harding, joined by Justice Leander Shaw, wrote that "the majority is departing from the essential requirements of the law by providing a remedy which is impossible to achieve and which will ultimately lead to chaos." 

 Since the partisan composition of the court was overwhelmingly Democratic, there is no reason to doubt the considerations that the judges expressed were in fact the ones that moved them. 

 And all of those considerations were proper ones. A court in reaching a determination on the meaning of statutes should take into account not only their texts, but also their purposes and history, the effect of a particular ruling on the overall structure of government, and practical concerns. 

 Thus, even though the seven justices filed three disparate opinions, all of them were following "the law." This should teach us that, when embodied in the rulings of judges, "the law" is in the process by which the results are reached rather than in the results themselves. 

 That is the test which all citizens, regardless of their political views, should apply in evaluating the actions of the federal courts in the days ahead. 

 Caption: Photo - Eric M. Freedman 

Document nday000020010808dwca0169w
?
 

BUSINESS WEEK IN REVIEW
BUSINESS
BUSINESS WEEK IN REVIEW

2,009 words
10 December 2000
The San Francisco Chronicle
SFC
FINAL
B2
English
Copyright 2000. Hearst Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

A look at the week's top business stories as reported in the business section and on the front page of The Chronicle. ---------------------------------------------------------

---------------------------------------------------------.

MONDAY, DEC. 4

LOW TEMPS BOOST GAS COSTS

Icy temperatures in much of the country pushed natural gas prices to record highs, virtually guaranteeing that heating bills for most homes will surge this winter. In Northern California, Pacific Gas and Electric Co. expects average heating bills this month to increase by about 50 percent to $77 from $50 last December. Many PG&E customers already are feeling the pinch. November heating bills also contained hefty increases.-- David Lazarus

---------------------------------------------------------

FAA WANTS TO FINE ALASKA AIRLINES

The Federal Aviation Administration proposed fines of nearly $1 million against Alaska Airlines for faulty maintenance and flying planes without proper repairs. An audit of the airline, ordered after a crash off the Southern California coast killed all 88 people aboard Flight 261 in January, turned up evidence that 21 planes at the airline's Oakland and Seattle facilities had been returned to service with incomplete maintenance records. The airline also faces a federal inquiry into the crash and dozens of wrongful- death lawsuits. Alaska Airlines spokesman Jack Evans said the airline has corrected the problems raised by the FAA. The company can argue within 30 days that the proposed fines should be reduced.-- Henry K. Lee

---------------------------------------------------------

GAP TO EXPAND TO MISSION BAY

Gap Inc. said it will lease a 283,000-square-foot building in Catellus Development Corp.'s Mission Bay project in a deal that expands the retailer's growing office-space footprint in San Francisco. The deal is the second office- space lease Catellus has signed for the 303-acre development. A Gap spokeswoman said the Mission Bay building will be in addition to the 540,000- square-foot headquarters building the company is building at 250 Embarcadero.-- Victoria Colliver

---------------------------------------------------------

NEW HOT SPOTS FOR HIGH TECH

San Jose may be the overall capital of high tech, but cities such as Colorado Springs, Colo., Sacramento and Dallas are the country's fastest- growing cybercities, according to a report by the American Electronics Association. The San Francisco metropolitan area ranked No. 20 nationwide in terms of high-tech employment, with 62,229 people working in the tech sector, according to the association.-- Benny Evangelista

---------------------------------------------------------

3COM SHARES TAKE A BEATING

Shares of 3Com lost more than a quarter of their value after the Santa Clara company became the latest high-tech firm hurt by a slowdown in telecommunications equipment spending. 3Com shares rose 44 cents to $13.38 in regular trading on the Nasdaq but plunged to $9.75 in after-hours trading following the company's profit warning.-- Todd Wallack

---------------------------------------------------------

CISCO SEES BENEFITS IN TECH SLUMP

Cisco Systems chief executive John Chambers said the San Jose computer networking giant could benefit from the slumping stock market and the slowdown in the telecommunications industry. "We are the white knight in many ways," Chambers said. -- Todd Wallack

--------------------------------------------------------- BLUELIGHT.COM ACQUIRES SPINWAY

Kmart's online retailer, Bluelight.com, has acquired free Internet access company Spinway, illustrating the continuing demise of an industry that gives away its services. --Verne Kopytoff

--------------------------------------------------------- FTC PROBE OF AMAZON.COM SOUGHT

Consumer advocates asked the Federal Trade Commission to investigate Amazon. com, charging that a change in the Seattle e-tailer's privacy policy constitutes a deceptive trade practice. Amazon spokeswoman Patty Smith said the consumer groups' contention that the company's new policy offers weaker privacy protection is wrong. -- Carrie Kirby

--------------------------------------------------------- PEPSICO TO BUY QUAKER OATS

PepsiCo has agreed to buy Quaker Oats Co., the maker of Gatorade and Cap'n Crunch cereal, for $13.4 billion in stock. Gaining control of Gatorade would give PepsiCo the dominant brand in the $2.5 billion sports drink category, which has been growing faster than colas. -- Associated Press

---------------------------------------------------------

---------------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, DEC. 5.

NASDAQ POSTS BIGGEST GAIN

The tech-heavy Nasdaq posted its biggest gain ever -- 10.5 percent -- as Wall Street embraced hints from Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan that cuts in interest rates are on the horizon. The Nasdaq composite index soared 274.05 points to close at 2,889.80. The Dow Jones industrial average advanced 338.62 points to 10,898.72 -- its biggest increase since March.-- David Lazarus

---------------------------------------------------------

STATE POWER GRID MAXES OUT

State energy regulators warned of a possible new round of disruptive power failures and took the Grinch-like step of asking residents to cut back on their festive holiday lights. The request was intended to ease pressure on California's electricity grid, which has been in turmoil during the past two months and was pushed to the limit twice this week. -- Christian Berthelsen

--------------------------------------------------------- APPLE COMPUTER RETURNS TO THE RED

For the first time in three years -- since just after Steve Jobs returned as chief executive officer -- Apple Computer is in the red. Citing "significantly slower than expected sales," the Cupertino company predicted a net loss, excluding investment gains, of $225 million to $250 million for its fiscal first quarter, which ends Dec. 30. Analysts had expected the company to report a profit of 3 cents per share for the quarter.--Henry Norr

---------------------------------------------------------

MP3.COM TO CHARGE FEES

MP3.com Inc. relaunched its controversial online locker service, hoping music fans will fork over as much as $50 a year to listen to their own song collection from any Web-connected computer. The San Diego music portal shut down the free My.MP3.com service in April after the country's biggest record labels and music publishers sued on grounds that the free online storage service violated copyright laws. MP3.com, which will pay nearly $170 million to settle the majority of those suits, took a page out of cable television's playbook and relaunched My.MP3.com with basic and premium levels of service. -- Benny Evangelista

--------------------------------------------------------- NEW MOVE IN PRIVATE EQUITY SECTOR

Thomas Weisel Partners and Scudder Kemper Investments have formed a joint- venture partnership to offer private-equity investments to wealthy individuals -- just as the air seems to be going out of the private equity sector. The new firm, Scudder Weisel Capital, will target individuals with $1 million or more in investment capital and accept minimum contributions of $25,000. Its funds will invest in technology-oriented venture capital funds, private equity portfolios and hedge funds. But some experts question the new firm's timing. "They're late to the game," said Jesse Reyes, vice president of Venture Economics, a New Jersey research firm.-- Carol Emert

---------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------- WEDNESDAY, DEC. 6.

INTEL DIMS LIGHTS VOLUNTARILY

The lights were deliberately dimmed at Santa Clara's Intel Corp. as California officials once again warned that the state's power supply had dipped to dangerously low levels. Intel is one of dozens of Bay Area companies that had voluntarily agreed to help conserve electricity during shortages -- in the summertime. "This comes as a surprise," said Mark Pettinger, an Intel spokesman. "The voluntary reduction program was designed for the summer load only." -- David Lazarus

--------------------------------------------------------- STOCKS TANK AGAIN

The stock market went into another dive after taking off on Tuesday. The Dow Jones industrial average skidded 233.59 points to 10,665.13, wiping out two-thirds of its 338.62-point gain the day before. The Nasdaq composite index also returned to its recent downward path, dropping 92.81 points to 2,797.28. A salvo of disappointing earnings announcements, this time from Apple Computer and Bank of America, helped sour the market. -- Peter Sinton

--------------------------------------------------------- DEVELOPERS VIE FOR WATERFRONT SITE

Backers of New York City's Chelsea Piers have joined with the operators of the San Francisco Bay Club in a revised bid to develop a mammoth waterfront sports and recreation complex. To win the job of transforming Piers 27-31 into a magnet for health-club devotees and basketball -- with some shopping and restaurants in the mix -- the Chelsea Piers team faces a formidable competitor: the Mills Corp., a powerful East Coast shopping-mall developer that is teaming with the YMCA of San Francisco to develop the site. Both development teams envision a vibrant new destination for Bay Area residents of varying income levels. Their projects would provide a place for rock-climbing, baseball batting cages, indoor soccer games and lap swimming.-- Jenny Strasburg

---------------------------------------------------------

WORLDWIDE PC SALES GROW

Despite gloomy warnings from several leading computer companies, a prominent market-research group says worldwide PC sales are still growing at a fairly stiff clip. IDC estimates that shipments for the fourth quarter will total 40.15 million units, up 19.6 percent from the same period last year and 19.8 percent ahead of this year's third quarter.-- Henry Norr

---------------------------------------------------------

---------------------------------------------------------- THURSDAY, DEC. 7.

STATE GOES ON STAGE 3 POWER ALERT

California was hit with its first Stage 3 power alert -- the highest level of energy emergency -- as electricity reserves fell to the lowest level ever Thursday night. Although a Stage 3 crisis authorizes utilities to initiate rolling blackouts to ease pressure on the power grid, state officials said they were unnecessary because other remedies kept the system running. The shortage was relieved to a large extent when the huge pumps that move water from Northern to Southern California were shut down to save power after the alert was announced at 5:15 p.m. -- David Lazarus

--------------------------------------------------------- SOFTER ECONOMY SLUGS TECHS

Bad news emanated from a wide swath of the technology world, indicating that the weakening economy's impact is both broad and tough. Intel and Microsoft suffered amid growing pessimism about demand for computers. Motorola reported softness in demand for chips used in non-PC products such as automobiles. And Yahoo faced Wall Street concerns about potentially stagnating advertising revenues. Overall, the tech-heavy Nasdaq slid 1.6 percent, or 43. 84, to 2,752.66.-- Carol Emert and Kelly Zito

---------------------------------------------------------

NORTHPOINT FIRES 248 WORKERS

NorthPoint Communications fired 248 people, or 19 percent of its workforce, in a frantic effort to cut costs and stave off bankruptcy. The San Francisco DSL provider has been running low on cash since Verizon Communications abruptly called off its marriage with the high-speed Internet access provider two weeks ago. Nearly three-quarters of the job cuts will come in the Bay Area. -- Todd Wallack

--------------------------------------------------------- SCHWAB VULNERABLE TO HACKERS

Financial services giant Charles Schwab acknowledged that a security problem could allow hackers to gain control of the online accounts of its customers. It marks the second time in three months that this kind of problem has surfaced in the online brokerage industry. E-Trade acknowledged such a flaw in September. Officials at Schwab emphasized the security risk was minimal and said there have not been any known attacks.-- Vanessa Hui and Verne Kopytoff

---------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------- FRIDAY, DEC. 8 . NASDAQ ENDS WEEK WITH REBOUND

Investors gazed into the abyss -- a profit warning from mighty Intel Corp. - - and said, "Big deal." Topping off a topsy-turvy week, tech stocks surged as market players shrugged off a spate of recent earnings alarms and focused instead on the latest data showing U.S. economic growth is slowing, thus increasing the likelihood of cuts in interest rates. The Nasdaq composite index climbed 164.77 points to close at 2,917.43. The Nasdaq ended the week up 10 percent.-- David Lazarus

---------------------------------------------------------

PICKETS FOR DOT-COM UNION

Shouldering placards and chanting slogans, about 80 people marched outside the Mission Street office of Etown to show support for union organizing efforts by its customer service workers. Although Etown is a small firm, it represents a significant beachhead for organized labor. Two weeks ago, its customer service representatives became the first dot-com workers in the United States to officially petition for a union election.-- Carolyn Said

---------------------------------------------------------

TRI VALLEY RESCUE

Tri Valley Growers, the state's largest agricultural cooperative, which filed for bankruptcy protection in July, has found a lifeline. Pending approval by a bankruptcy judge, Tri Valley has reached an agreement to sell itself to an unnamed affiliate of John Hancock Life Insurance Co. of Boston, its largest asset-based lender.-- Peter Sinton

Document SFC0000020120703dwca0076r
?
 

 Business; Financial Desk 
 Surge in Tech Stocks Briefly Raises Hopes for a Recovery Markets: Uncertainty returns with latest Florida ruling on election dispute. Lower opening expected Monday. 

 WALTER HAMILTON 
TIMES STAFF WRITER
753 words
9 December 2000
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-1
English
 Copyright 2000 Los Angeles Times 

 An impressive rally in technology stocks Friday raised hopes that the market was finally in a sustainable recovery. But after trading ended, Wall Street was thrown for another jolt by a court ruling in the presidential stalemate. 

 The tech-stock surge in the regular trading session pushed the Nasdaq composite index up 6% and left it up 10.3% for the week, its best performance since June. 

 Bullish analysts argued that Friday's rally, coupled with Nasdaq's record-breaking leap Tuesday, suggested that the market had reached at least a short-term bottom from which a year-end rally could spring. 

 Nasdaq climbed 164.77 points to close at 2,917.43 on Friday, the highest since Nov. 17. The advance occurred despite a fresh wave of earnings warnings Thursday from major tech companies. 

 Other indexes also rose, though not as powerfully. The Dow Jones industrial average picked up 95.55 points, or 0.9%, to 10,712.91. The Standard & Poor's 500 index gained 1.9%. Winners topped losers by more than 2 to 1 on Nasdaq and the New York Stock Exchange. 

 But minutes after the regular session closed, uncertainty returned when the Florida Supreme Court ordered that thousands of disputed ballots be counted--potentially prolonging the election stalemate that has caused jitters in the market for weeks. 

 The court's ruling sparked an immediate plunge in stock index futures contracts, an indication that the market will open lower Monday. 

 "As long as you keep the uncertainty alive, it's probably negative" for the market, said Jim Paulsen, chief investment officer of Wells Capital Management. "In the long run, it's not going to matter much. But in the short term, it's another reason to sell off." 

 Nevertheless, Wall Street's bulls chose to focus on the week's good news--mainly, Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan's comments Tuesday suggesting that the central bank may lower interest rates early next year. 

 If the Fed indeed eases credit, many analysts say the market, anticipating a pickup in the economy by midyear, should rally. Stocks were helped Friday by a report that the economy added fewer jobs last month than expected, further raising hopes for quick Fed action. In the bond market, yields finished mixed. 

 "We have basically ended that massive decline on Nasdaq," said Barry Hyman, strategist at Weatherly Securities in New York. "Now the healing process begins, and it begins with Alan Greenspan." 

 With Nasdaq still down 42% from its March peak, there were signs late last week that investors believe tech shares have gone as low as they should for now. 

 Chip giant Intel, which late Thursday warned of near-term profit weakness, nonetheless rose $1.69, or 5.2%, to $34 on Friday. Likewise, Motorola, which released a fourth-quarter warning early Thursday, rallied $1.50, or 8.5%, to $19.25 on Friday. 

 Also, bank stocks have rallied the last two days despite Bank of America's earnings warning Wednesday. BofA gained $1.88 to $40.88 on Friday, and Citigroup rose $1.75 to $51.50. 

 "The [latest] bad news didn't take the market any lower," said Scott Bleier, chief investment strategist at Prime Charter Ltd., a New York investment bank. "That signifies that the market was washed out and that the bad news was already built in." 

 In fact, some analysts argue that corporate profit warnings may actually help stocks now by encouraging the Fed to cut rates sooner or more aggressively. 

 "We have to worry about more bad news" as companies come to grips with the slowing economy, said Charles Blood, analyst at Brown Bros. Harriman & Co. "The question is whether it'll be a depressant" on the market. 

 Bulls also are encouraged by the recent recoveries in former go-go tech stocks such as Juniper Networks, which closed Friday at $166.13, up $17.25, after falling as low as $103 only seven days ago. 

 Though the market may open lower Monday, anticipation of Fed rate cuts in 2001 will remain after the election is resolved, Blood said. "The economy is slowing. Neither Bush nor Gore can stop that from happening," he said. "And they can't stop the Fed from easing" rates. 

 Market Roundup: C4, C5 

 GRAPHIC-CHART: Daily Diary, Friday, Dec. 8, 2000; 

Document latm000020010808dwc902gm9
?
 

Amid signs that America's economy is slowing, Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, admitted...

952 words
9 December 2000
The Economist
EC
English
(c) The Economist Newspaper Limited, London 2000. All rights reserved 

Amid signs that America's economy is slowing, Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, admitted that inflation was no longer his primary concern. He also hinted that he would act if the economy slowed too sharply. Markets interpreted this as a sign that the Fed would soon cut interest rates. America's tech-heavy Nasdaq jumped by 10%, its biggest-ever daily gain, and the Dow Jones Industrial Average went up by 3%, though both fell back a bit the next day.

See article: A hard landing?

The IMF offered new loans of $7.5 billion (and a total package worth $10.4 billion) to Turkey, in an attempt to contain Turkey's financial and banking crisis. The IMF is also negotiating new loans to Argentina, another troubled emerging economy.

See article: Turkey and the IMF

Gerhard Schroeder, Germany's chancellor, said that Russian debt owed to Germany (around half of the total of $48 billion owed to the Paris Club of western governments) could be swapped for stakes in Russian companies. As a long-term solution, this has merits; but next year Russia is scheduled to repay $3.9 billion, and has so far allocated only a quarter of this sum.

See article: Russian capital loves to travel

Japan's GDP grew by only 1.0% at an annual rate in the third quarter, a similar rate to the previous quarter, after growth had surged at the start of the year. Japan has introduced a new system for calculating GDP, although it may be no more reliable than previous methods.

Wanadoo, France's biggest Internet service provider, is to buy Britain's biggest ISP, Freeserve, with shares worth some #1.6 billion ($2.3 billion). Wanadoo, 88% owned by France Telecom, will become one of Europe's top three ISPs alongside Germany's T-Online and Italy's Tiscali. Both were also rumoured to have been interested in Freeserve.

EM.TV, a struggling German TV company, began a sell-off of assets and acquired a partner after announcing profits way below forecasts. Kirch Group, a German media firm, is to take a 17% stake in the company and will pay $500m for 49% of an EM.TV subsidiary that owns 50% of Formula One motor racing. EM.TV also sold the rights to some "Sesame Street" TV characters for $180m. Its shares continued to plunge.

See article: EM.TV's fall from grace

Reuters, a British media group, announced a successor to replace Peter Job as chief executive when he retires next July. Tom Glocer, head of Reuters' main information division, will become the first American (and first non-journalist) to run the company.

The revival of Apple Computer, overseen by Steve Jobs, chief executive and co-founder, suffered a sharp setback after a profits warning. The company expects a loss in the quarter to the end of the year, and its revenues are trailing behind forecasts.

British Telecom sold bonds worth $10 billion, offering high yields to compensate for its ballooning debt and rickety credit rating. Initial public offerings by Norway's Telenor and Portugal Telecom both fell below their offer prices when trading began.

Nokia, the world's leading mobile-phone maker, said that revenues were likely to remain strong until 2003 and that the world would see its one-billionth mobile subscriber by early 2002, rather than the end of this year. Nokia also dismissed suggestions that WAP and other Internet-enabled devices would not catch on.

After losing out in the race to succeed Jack Welch at General Electric, two top executives departed. Robert Nardelli, in charge of GE Power Systems, will become chief executive at Home Depot, an American DIY retailer. And James McNerney, head of GE Aircraft Engines, will take up the chief executive's role at 3M, a diversified manufacturer. Shares in both companies shot up.

See article: GE and executive transplants

PepsiCo agreed to acquire Quaker Oats, an American food and drink company, for shares worth $13.4 billion. Quaker had turned down an offer from PepsiCo; a bid from Coca-Cola was halted by Coke's own board. PepsiCo gets Quaker's Gatorade brand, which has an 84.1% share of the "sports" drink market in America.

See article: Pepsi bags Quaker

Corus, forged from the merger of British Steel and Hoogovens, a Dutch rival, abandoned its experiment of employing two chief executives. Both are to leave. The unwieldy compromise, needed to facilitate the merger, slowed down decision-making at a time of declining demand for steel, which had led to losses and a declining share price.

Pernod Ricard and Diageo announced that they had agreed to bid jointly for the drinks business of Seagram, which is to be auctioned for a sum likely to exceed $7 billion after Seagram completes its merger with Vivendi, a French conglomerate. A side-deal by the suppliers of Captain Morgan, Seagram's premium rum, with Allied Domecq, rivals for the rest of Seagram, has not deterred Pernod and Diageo. Bacardi, in alliance with Brown-Forman, an American firm, is also interested.

Bank of America issued a profit warning for the fourth quarter, blaming rising bad debts and poor investment-banking results. Its shares hit a 12-month low.

Deutsche Bank announced that it would reorganise its five main units into only two, covering investment banking and asset management, and retail operations. The bank hopes to take advantage of cross-selling opportunities in both units.

ING Barings, an Anglo-Dutch investment bank with a doubtful future, lost its chairman and his deputy. The departures may foreshadow a greater exodus. 

Document ec00000020010806dwc90037c
?
 

 $A spikes to US55c. 

 By REBECCA HOLMES. 
459 words
8 December 2000
Adelaide Advertiser
ADVTSR
40
English
(c) 2000 Advertiser Newspapers Limited

 THE Australian dollar took an aggressive stance yesterday as it smashed through the US55c psychological barrier in late trade. But the national share market posted another neutral result, closing up just 1.2 points to 3252. 

 Benefiting from further US dollar weakness, the local currency rose from a low of US54.32c to hit a ten-week high. The local unit was last above the US55c level on September 28 when it rose to a high of $US55.18c. 

 Yesterday it closed at US55.03c, from US54.48c in the previous session. MMS Standard & Poor's strategist Glenn Bull said overseas trading would be important for the local currency which looked set to test key resistance at US55.50c. 

 "There are all kinds of buyers and there's no sign of profit-taking so there's no reason why it shouldn't continue higher," Mr Bull said. 

 Earlier in the session, the $A had been weaker in response to labor force data released by the Australian Bureau of Statistics which indicated the economy was beginning to slow and unemployment had risen. 

 "The fact that we were able to bounce back despite the weak domestic data suggests that it's still at this stage a weak US dollar story which is driving buying on the Aussie rather than too much focus on domestic news," AMP asset management senior portfolio manager Chris Loong said. 

 Meanwhile, the national share market had a choppy session after New York's Nasdaq fell more than 3 per cent following a profit warning from Apple Computers. 

 In local tech stocks, SecureNet responded to a share price query from the ASX by saying it was aware of market rumors that certain broking firms intended to downgrade their earnings and profit forecasts. 

 "SecureNet stands by the information previously provided by it to the market concerning its targeted revenues and profitability," the company said. Its shares fell 5c to $5.85. 

 Macquarie Day Cutten division director Danny Watson said gold stocks shone yesterday, as the gold price rose to $US275 an ounce - its highest level in two months. 

 Newcrest Mining jumped 15c to $4.40, Normandy 6c to $1.01, Lihir Gold 5c to 66c and Delta Gold 8c to $1.25. 

 Mr Watson said the market started the day "very weak". "Then buyers came in and forced it back up to square again," he said. 

 "This market has done nothing in two days." 

 In the broader market, investors exited Coles Myer on earnings worries, switching to the more defensive grocer Woolworths, and go-ahead retailer Harvey Norman. 

 Coles Myer shares shed 20c to $7.14 while Woolworths climbed 13c to $7.90 and Harvey Norman jumped 19c to $3.86. 

Document advtsr0020010803dwc800y5g
?
 Company Results: STAGECOACH - Public Transport Operator - BUY - SGC 

368 words
8 December 2000
Investors Chronicle
INVR
69
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 Investors Chronicle; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 Problems at Coach USA, which prompted a profits warning earlier this year, have stabilised says management. Profit margins at Coach, which accounts for 33 per cent of turnover, fell from 19.7 per cent to 13.7 per cent as staff shortages increased costs. Management, meanwhile, is taking GBP4m a year of costs out of the business, but also wants to expand the operation by recruiting more drivers - not easy in the current US economic environment. 

 The UK bus business - the second largest part of Stagecoach - has similar problems. Here, profit margins fell to 14 per cent from 15.7 per cent last year. However, costs are already pared to the bone, so Stagecoach is boosting marketing to secure revenue growth. 

 The rail business, which had been one of the exciting parts of Stagecoach, has been hit by rail disruption. 

 Management says that, at worst, over the four weeks to 11 November, this will mean it loses GBP3.3m. Additional compensation from Railtrack could narrow the gap further and there's a good chance that such compensation will materialise, but the long-term worry is how quickly customers return to the railways. 

 The sale of rolling stock lessor Porterbrook and Swedish bus operator Swebus knocked GBP76m off profits this year. However, their sale strengthened Stagecoach's balance sheet. 

 Management may use this to buy back more shares (it has already bought GBP221m). Analysts anticipate full-year earnings of 10p (13.4p in 1999). 


Ord price: 63p                     Market value: GBP850m
Touch: 62-64p                      12 month High: 188p   Low: 55p
Dividend yield: 5.9%               PE ratio: 11
Net asset value: 106p*             Net debt: 60%
*Includes intangibles of GBP1bn, or 78p a share
Half year   Turnover   Pre-tax       Stated earnings    Net div per
to 31 Oct   (GBPm)       profit (GBPm)   per share (p)      share (p)
1999        940        112           6.3                1.2
2000        940         58           2.9                1.3
% change    -          -49           -54                +8
Last IC comment: 28 July 2000, page 15         xd: 21 Feb



IC VIEW



Though Stagecoach is finding life difficult, the shares are lowly
rated. The company is addressing its problems, growth should return and
the dividend looks fairly safe. Buy.


Document invr000020010807dwc8000b7
?
 Company Results: BALDWINS INDUSTRIAL SERVICES - Crane Hire - FAIRLY PRICED - 

309 words
8 December 2000
Investors Chronicle
INVR
68
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 Investors Chronicle; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 Baldwins admits September's devastating profits warning was down to poor management. The top team was overstretched, coping with both a highly competitive UK market and the new thrust into the US. UK sales fell 8 per cent, and in such a high fixed-cost business that hit profits hard. In addition, the benefits from the US expansion came more slowly than expected. Some GBP20m has been spent on acquisitions and capex, but the first half showed a small loss. Group profit before exceptionals fell 28 per cent to GBP2.54m 

 Baldwins says it has learnt lessons and has strengthened senior management in both the UK and US. Expansion in the US - now almost one-third of sales - is on hold until returns are on target and in the UK unprofitable depots are being closed. There are some bright spots. The group has won big long-term contracts from giants like Shell and DuPont and current trading is "satisfactory". But ING Barings Charterhouse Securities has cut its full-year profits forecast from GBP9m to GBP5.6m, giving EPS of 14.4p. 


Ord price: 193p                     Market value: GBP60m
Touch: 190-195p                     12 month High: 468p   Low: 193p
Dividend yield: 2.0%                PE ratio: 9
Net asset value: 147p               Net debt: 174%
Half year   Turnover   Pre-tax       Stated earnings   Net div per
to 30 Sep   (GBPm)       profit (GBPm)   per share (p)     share (p)
1999        27.9       4.54          15.2              1.25
2000        34.9       2.54           8.2              1.25
% change    +25        -28           -46               -
Last IC comment: 16 June 2000, page 70      xd: 20 Dec



IC VIEW



Baldwins will be on probation at least until the finals. UK equipment
hire capacity is being taken out by acquisition, but investors want to
be sure management can handle overseas expansion. Fairly priced.


Document invr000020010807dwc8000ax
?
 

 US shockwave rattles equity market - Wall Street in retreat. 

 By Robert Powell Business editor. 
681 words
8 December 2000
The Herald
GH
24
English
(c) 2000 SMG Newspapers Ltd Not Available for Re-dissemination.

 MOTOROLA, one of the world's leading manufacturers of mobile phones and semiconductors, issued a profits warning yesterday that knocked the stuffing out of technology stocks on both sides of the Atlantic. 

 The FTSE 100 index of leading UK shares ended down 49.1 points at 6231, with technology and telecom companies leading the slide. 

 The Footsie was down 125 points at one stage, but recovered lost ground towards the close. Losers outnumbered gainers on the big board by two to one. 

 World stock markets had put a brighter gloss on the mobile phone sector following an optimistic sales and revenue forecast from world leader Nokia earlier in the week. 

 But Motorola slashed its fourth quarter earnings forecast by 40% in view of weaker semiconductor sales and delays in pushing through cost reductions. This news, coming close on the heels of profit warnings by computer makers Apple 

 and Gateway, sent tech stocks tumbling across Europe. 

 US shares also opened lower with the tech-heavy Nasdaq down 1.5% by the London close. 

 Prominent victims in the UK included telecoms equipment manufacturer Marconi. It slumped nearly 6% to close down 48p at 770p, while silicon chip designer ARM dropped 21p to 605p. Bookham Technology, which makes optical switches, crashed 120p to 1180p. BATM Advanced 

 Communication, an Israeli-based company which makes high-speed computer networking equipment, suffered a 

 double whammy after admitting that it would miss second half sales forecasts. Its shares lost more than half their value, plunging 160p to 147.5p. 

 Vodafone, which has a 10% weighting in the FTSE 100, shed 4.75p to 263.25p. 

 By the end of the day the TechMARK 100 index of technology shares had lost 3.3%. It closed down 93.44 points at 2737.91. 

 Scottish technology and telecom shares suffered amid the carnage. IndigoVision fell 7.5p to 375p, Orbital Software eased 1p to 117.5p, Atlantic Telecom fell 7.25p to 119.75p and Thus eased 1.5p to 63.5p. 

 Bank shares were mixed as Abbey National rebuffed a bid approach from Lloyds TSB. 

 Abbey shares slumped 25p to 1098p as the prospect of a juicy bid receded, while Lloyds TSB gained 18p to 645p on relief that it would not be issuing millions of new shares to help fund such a large deal. Bank of Scotland, which continues in secret merger talks with Abbey, firmed 1p to 691p. 

 HSBC and Royal Bank of Scotland, which both have large exposure to the US, fell on concerns over falling bank profits in the US after a profits warning from Bank of America. HSBC dropped 18p to 1014p while Royal Bank ended 20p off at 1433p. 

 Among the old economy stocks to hold up well was Bass, boosted nearly 4% by good results from its hotel division. It rose 25.5p to 694p. 

 PowerGen gained 9.5p to 579.5p on the disposal of its Asian generation assets and regulatory approval of a major acquisition in the US. Scottish & Southern Energy, widely cited as the most profitable UK electricity company, gained 11p to 612p. 

 Most second-line shares fell back yesterday. The FTSE Mid-250 index dropped 65.3 points to 6469.4. Gilts also retreated, with the March long gilt futures contract 12 ticks weaker at 115.58 on profit taking from recent gains. But dealers said yields of around 4.4% still looked generous. 

 US technology stocks limped home yesterday after a warning of soft sales and earnings from mobile phone giant Motorola reawakened fears of a sector-wide profit squeeze. 

 Motorola added fuel to the fire sparked by computer giant Apple, which warned on Tuesday that soft holiday sales would create a loss for the quarter, echoing gloom from the likes of Microsoft, where shares fell 7%. 

 The Nasdaq Composite was down 43.84 points, or 1.6%, at 2752.66. 

 Blue-chip stocks also sagged. The 30-company Dow Jones Industrial Average was down 47.02 points at 10,617.36. - Reuters. 

Document gh00000020010810dwc801198
?
 

 Market report - New York stocks continue downward slide. 

220 words
8 December 2000
Channelnewsasia
CNEWAS
English
(c) 2000 MediaCorp News Pte Ltd. All Rights Reserved

 Technology stocks took a beating in late afternoon trading on Thursday, when mobile phone giant Motorola issued a warning of soft sales and earnings, renewing fears of a profit squeeze in the high-tech sector. 

 Already Tuesday saw computer giant Apple Computer warn about soft holiday sales creating a loss for the quarter, and earlier Gateway issued gloomy sentiments. 

 Goldman Sachs also cut Microsoft's 2001 earnings view by 1.5 percent, based on limp retail demand. 

 All these combined to cause market jitters that ate up more of Tuesday's rally, when the tech-heavy Nasdaq registered its biggest gain in its 29-year history after the US Fed Reserve chairman hinted at a near-term interest-rate cut. 

 The market was also anticipating the key monthly employment report from Washington on Friday. 

 The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index slid down 43.85 points, or 1.57 percent, to 2,752.65, its second day slump in a row after the 10 percent ride up on Tuesday. 

 Blue-chip stocks also dropped, pulled down largely by its high-tech and basic materials components. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average was down 47.02 points, or 0.44 percent, at 10,617.36. 

 Volume on the Big Board was 1,112,711,000. 

Document cnewas0020010805dwc8002ev
?
 

 BondBiz: Weak Data=Higher Stocks, Lower Bonds, Right? 

 By Greg Kitter 
1,105 words
8 December 2000
16:45
Capital Markets Report
CM
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 A Dow Jones Newswires Column 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Let's see. Thursday evening, Intel  came out with a revenue/profit warning.  The Big Three auto makers are cutting back production and asking suppliers to reduce prices.  The employment data reflected an increase in the unemployment rate and a much smaller than expected increase in non-farm payroll.  So this is the perfect time for Nasdaq futures to move limit up, right? 

 OK, so there may have been some bottom fishing.  But once again, the ever-present bull within the U.S. investor came through.  Bull, indeed. 

 It isn't as though the early market gains came after the weaker than expected employment data.  Then, at least, we could say investors were heartened by the weaker data from the perspective that the Fed would be more inclined to loosen the monetary screws more rapidly.  But no, the limit up in the Nasdaq futures and strong gains in the Dow appeared before the first screeches of non-farm payrolls hit the ticker. 

 One of the things age has taught me (I guess I wasn't smart enough to learn it any other way) is to take everything I see in the markets with a certain grain of salt.  I have also learned, as I've said many times in the past, that getting the ball on the green is a lot easier and almost as pleasurable as getting it in the hole.  In other words, I'm willing to miss the first vestiges of a turn in the market in favor of some more concrete evidence that this is the real McCoy.  So far, I haven't seen anyone from the McCoy family. 

 Non-farm payrolls rose more than 50,000 less than expected. Additionally, the October data were revised from +137K to +77K.  So with the adjustment, payrolls actually rose a measly 34K.  The unemployment rate for all adult workers 25 and older rose from 2.9% to 3%.  Ages 16-24 rose 0.2% to 9.1%.  The adult rate increase was only half as much as the Wrightson forecast I noted Thursday.  But we won't hold it against them.  After all, economic forecasting, like music, sculpture, and the presidential election process, is more of an art than a science. Subjective opinions should be an important factor, right? 

 The bond market was quite philosophical about the whole employment report. In fact, the yield curve is mostly higher since Thursday's close and from the employment numbers.  Fact is, there wasn't a whole heck of a lot of extra stuff to learn from the report in terms of Fed policy moves.  It seems to me the risk was on the strong side where a 200K+ NFP stat would have put the kabash for sure on any rate ease for at least the next two FOMC's and perhaps more.  But as things stand now, it's a pretty good bet we'll get at least a 1 GRM (now there's a term I haven't used in a while) cut in the first quarter.  My guess would be later rather than sooner in the quarter because of the Fed's conservative ways. 

 A check on the curve reflects short to medium maturity coupons are getting hit the hardest.  Of course, that shouldn't be overly surprising given the steep yield declines in these maturities over the past month or so.  The slope of the coupon curve remains saucer-shaped with the five-year at the bottom and the 30-year at the top. 

 Add to all of this the fact that bonus time has once again arrived on Wall Street.  I would think those traders with the fat profit pocketbooks (and believe it or not, there are more than a few of them) will be looking to defend their spoils of war while visions of multi-zero'd bonuses dance in their heads. 

 It looks as though we'll get a more definitive answer Friday on who the new residents of 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. will be.  I guess I must be missing something.  Many economists and market analysts are pointing to the election as a big determinant for the markets.  We all know the new prez will be "battling" (I use the term graciously) a virtually deadlocked Congress.  So other than the notion of resolution, I don't really see why people are so concerned over the outcome. 

 Sure, I want a president as much as the next person. But despite all the warnings, I'm not convinced the country is falling apart because of the past four weeks.  Annoyed, aggravated, frustrated, and perhaps apathetic, yes.  But not falling apart. 

 One brief technicality.  The other day I was asked what a "convexity" trade was in relation to the MBS market.  The definition of convexity, according to Fabozzi's "Handbook of Fixed Income Securities," is either "the shape (i.e., degree of curvature) of the price/yield relationship," or "the second approximation of percentage price change that must be added to the approximation obtained by using duration." 

 The way I see it, the price/yield curve on a non-callable security is convex in shape, or bowed to its origin (faster price rise as yields fall).  With a callable security, at some point the convexity stops and the curve flattens out.  This flatness comes from the calling or prepayment of the security.  MBS are continuously callable as a result of home sales or refinancing to obtain lower available mortgage rates. So it stands to reason that higher coupon MBS will be prepaid faster than lower coupon MBS.  As interest rates have been recently falling, prepayments on higher coupon MBS have been getting paid off faster. When this occurs the investor loses the benefit of whatever yield spread to Treasurys he/she was earning.  As a result, higher coupon MBS are being sold and replaced with lower coupon MBS, where the likelihood of early prepayment is lower. 


Find BondBiz daily around 1545 GMT/11:45 EDT on:
   Telerate pages [4183] or [1099]
   Dow Jones products by searching the code N/POV
   Bloomberg by entering [DJNI DJ4183]



Greg Kitter, a columnist for Dow Jones Newswires, is a former
economist, trader and marketer of fixed-income cash and derivatives
products. He has also published a book "Investment Mathematics for
Finance and Treasury Professionals: A Practical Approach". It is
available via Internet booksellers and in bookstores. Tell him what you
think at 201-938-2153, or greg.kitter@dowjones.com


1099 4183

Document cm00000020010804dwc800tob
?
 

 US STOCKS SLIP, NOT SINK, ON TECHNOLOGY PROFIT WARNINGS. 

295 words
7 December 2000
20:59
Market News International
MARNEW
English
(c) 2000. Market News International, Inc.

 NEW YORK (MktNews) - U.S. share prices slipped Thursday following new earnings warnings in the technology sector, but dealers and analysts were upbeat, saying losses were comparatively small. 

 Shortly before the close, the Nasdaq composite was down 51.35 at 2745.15 while the Dow Industrials were down 16.83 at 2798.88. Volumes were active but not heavy. 

 Motorola was down 3/4 at 17 1/16 [MOT] after warning that it will miss quarterly revenue and profit expectations due to weak demand and high production costs. National Semiconductor beat quarterly expectations but fell 11/16 to 19 5/16 [NSM] after warning it may suffer a 10 percent decline in sales due to inventory problems and weak PC demand. 

 Similar warnings in the past have prompted dizzying selloffs in the market, but dealers and analysts said hopes for lower interest rates are helping to limit the downgrading of expectations. Given a broad weakening in the economy, the Federal Reserve is expected to begin a shift toward accommodative monetary policy at its Dec. 19 policy meeting. 

 Microsoft was down 3 5/8 at 53 1/16 [MSFT] on an analyst downgrade over weak PC demand. Yahoo, down 3 9/16 at 33 15/16 [YHOO], was hit by a downgrade on worries over Internet advertising revenue. 

 Fiber-optic equipment maker Ciena beat quarterly estimates and offered upbeat projections. The company was up 1/4 at 95 5/8 [CIEN]. 

 General Motors was down 11/16 at 51 3/8 [GM] after CEO Richard Wagoner reportedly said his company will begin aggressive production scalebacks in light of weakened demand. Ford and Chrysler have announced similar plans. 

 ***MARKET NEWS INTERNATIONAL NEW YORK 212 509 9270*** 

 [TOPICS: MNUEQ$]. 

Document marnew0020010814dwc7010nr
?
 Bank of America  Profit Warning  Hurts Stock Market 

 Matt Marshall 
843 words
7 December 2000
California
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 In the latest sign of a troubled economy, Bank of America Corp., the nation's largest bank, said Wednesday that it will miss its profit targets for the fourth quarter and next year because of bad loans and slowing market activity. 

 The bank's warning -- its second in less than a month -- roiled the stock market, sending the major indexes down sharply. It also raises the question of whether Silicon Valley's boom might be fizzling in a vicious cycle: companies suffering from weaker growth can't make loan payments, which in turn forces banks to choke off loaning activity and dampens economic growth. 

 "Historically, there have been purge periods," said Eric Rothman, analyst at First Security Van Kasper. He said a credit crunch like the one that happened in 1998 after the Asian currency crisis might be in the cards. 

 The stock market plunged in reaction to Bank of America's announcement and Apple Computer Inc.'s warning late Tuesday that it expects a loss for the quarter ending Dec. 30, compared to estimates given in October of a "slight profit." The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite index shed a third of the record gains it realized Wednesday, dropping 93.30, or 3.23 percent to 2,796.50. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 234.34, or 2.15 percent to 10,664.39. The Standard and Poor's 500, considered a broader gauge of the overall market, fell 24.08, or 1.82 percent to 1,351.46. 

 Bank of America's announcement is particularly alarming because of the pace at which loans are deteriorating, analysts said. 

 Last month, in its pervious warning, the company said write-offs would be more than double the third-quarter levels. But that was before November's data was in, says spokesman Robert Stickler. 

 The bank now says it expects to write off between $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion for bad loans in the fourth quarter, versus the $435 million it wrote off in the third quarter. It expects fourth-quarter earnings per share of between 85 cents and 90 cents, down from $1.23 a year earlier. The bank's stock dropped $2.88 to $38.31. The bank said its loans are deteriorating as the economy slows and customers find it more difficult to repay debt. 

 Bad loan levels have been rising across the industry since the second quarter. On Oct. 19, Chase Manhattan Corp., the nation's No. 2 bank, reported a 26 percent fall in third-quarter profits after investment losses and sluggish brokerage revenues. 

 Salomon Smith Barney analyst Ruchi Madan believes that bank too will post fourth-quarter earnings below forecast, as falling stock prices bit into the bank's investment in start-up companies. 

 Several other banks, including Bank One, Fleet Boston Financial and Wells Fargo, have already signaled that long-overdue loans are accounting for a bigger share of lending than in previous quarters. 

 In addition to deteriorating loans to large companies, Bank of America said its investment banking business is also hurting. Fewer initial public offerings and merger and acquisition deals -- all a result of the weak stock market -- has meant less fees gained from underwriting these deals. The bank attributed about a third of its overall slowdown to weakness in such investment banking deals. 

 Analysts are now looking to Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan for relief. 

 Greenspan expressed concern Tuesday at a banking conference about a "moderating" economy. After his comments, investors snapped up stocks on the belief that Greenspan was considering a possible interest rate cut to jump-start the economy. 

 But Robert Christian, chief investment officer for Wilmington Trust Corp, which oversees $25 billion in Wilmington, Delaware, said investors had ignored Greenspan' underlying message: that the economy could slow more. 

 "We probably have to wait until mid to late next year to see a solid rally in Nasdaq stocks," Christian said. 

 Greenspan cautioned banks not to overreact to recent developments by squeezing off credit. Greenspan wants to avoid a credit crunch of the kind seen in 1998. Then, he was able to lower rates rapidly, which made borrowing more attractive and injected liquidity into the market. 

 But economists say there are many reasons Greenspan may not want to lower rates rapidly this time around. Among them are the threat of higher inflation that could be caused if the dollar falls. A weaker dollar makes imported goods more expensive. 

 But analysts question whether banks will listen to Greenspan. 

 "Whether they do or not will be specific to each bank," said Joe Morford, analyst at Dain Rauscher Wessels in San Francisco. "The fact is, credit costs are rising, and banks are going to be more careful. They'll tighten up underwriting standards." 

 Whether the economy has entered a vicious cycle downward is too early too tell, analysts said. "It all depends on the credit market, and how aggressively the Fed cuts interest rates sometime next year," said Ronald Mandle, analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. 

Document krtbn00020010808dwc7001fs
?
 The Kansas City Star, Mo., Commodities Column 

 Victoria Sizemore Long 
309 words
7 December 2000
Missouri
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 Chicago soybean futures prices closed higher Wednesday, buoyed partly by exports. Kansas City wheat and Chicago wheat and corn futures prices finished lower. 

 Kansas City Value Line stock index futures and Isdex Internet stock index futures also closed lower. 

 Reports that China had bought up to 250,000 tons of soybeans enabled the soybean market to shake out of a two-day slump prompted by the European Union's decision to adopt only a limited ban on the use of meat and bone meal as animal feed. 

 Corn futures fell under pressure from continued sluggish exports. But the decline was minimal amid expectations that Japan and the United States soon will reach an agreement regarding the controversial StarLink brand. StarLink is genetically modified corn and has not been approved for human consumption. 

 Wheat futures prices were pressured by slack export business and a decreased threat of cold-weather damage expected next week in major wheat regions. 

 The Kansas City Value Line and Isdex closed lower as profit-taking following Tuesday's big run-up hit stocks across the board, Kansas City trader Paul Dow said. 

 A darker outlook for earnings, including a profit warning from Apple Computer, also weighed on the market. 

 Today's market "will be a better indicator of where the market is going to go," Dow said. "We'll find out if there will be a resumption of the downward move or if it was just profit-taking before we go back up." 

 Kansas City Value Line stock index cash settled down 1,465 basis points at 1,088.29. The December contract settled down 1,500 basis points at 1,089.00. Isdex cash settled down 1,466 basis points at 457.28. The December contract settled down 1,400 basis points at 459.00. 

Document krtbn00020010808dwc7001ez
?
 

Hi-techs hurt as US giants pile on grief  

MICHAEL CLARK  
615 words
7 December 2000
The Evening Standard
NS
E
48
English
(c) 2000 Associated Newspapers. All rights reserved  

WALL STREET blue-chips were little changed, the Dow edging up a point to 10,665.38, but the tech-heavy Nasdaq fell 32.6 to 2764.34 after Motorola's profits warning.  

IT HAS all gone pear-shaped for hi-tech companies after two of the biggest names in the business saw their share prices fall sharply in Europe ahead of the start of trading in the US this afternoon.  

America's biggest mobile phones maker, Motorola, rocked brokers with a profits warning telling shareholders that sales in the fourth quarter would fall short of the $10.5 billion that brokers had been forecasting. The company blamed a slowdown in sales of semiconductors and mobile phones.  

The message from Motorola sent its shares tumbling $2 to $157/8 and follows profit warnings from the likes of Apple Computer, Nortel Networks, Hewlett Packard and Gateway Computers in recent days.  

In a separate blow, US securities house Goldman Sachs has downgraded its profit forecast for Microsoft, leaving the shares 6%, or $3, lower at $533/4 on Easdaq.  

The news pulled the rug from under investors in London where hi-tech companies were already losing ground in the wake of a profit warning from BATM Advanced Communications and the overnight setback for Nasdaq.  

Bookham Technology, which yesterday lost its place as a constituent of the top 100 companies, fell 115p to 1185p after a presentation last night at US securities broker Lehman Brothers. There were also losses for Marconi, down 62p at 756p, Logica, 124p at 1751p, and ARM Holdings, 32p at 594p.  

Sage Group, which has retained its place in the top 100, lost 281/2p to 4051/2p on reports that broker HSBC Securities has downgraded its stance from "add" to "reduce" following recent results, with rival UBS Warburg also reckoned to have also cut its price target.  

The techMARK 100 index reversed yesterday's gains with a fall of 103.8 at 2728.33.  

Among the second-liners, Fibernet shed 55p to 860p and Infobank lost 321/2p to 3521/2p.  

The rest of the equity market traded above its worst levels thanks to a better start to trading on Wall Street in the wake of yesterday's falls. Even so, the FTSE 100 index was still showing a fall of 62.3 at 6211.0.  

Abbey National lost 13p to 1110p after declining an offer of merger talks with rival Lloyds TSB, 121/2p dearer at 6391/2p. It seems Lloyds' offer of a mixture of cash and shares worth 1300p was not enough. City speculators reckon Lloyds may now turn aggressive and go ahead with a bid for the mortgage lender, which is now valued at Pounds 16 billion. Meanwhile, Abbey remains in merger talks with Bank of Scotland, steady at 690p.  

ICI retreated 14p to 516p as Commerzbank downgraded its rating from "accumulate" to "hold" after the recent strong performance of the shares. It has raised fair value from 450p to 530p.  

It was the first day of dealings in London and Dublin for Power Leisure after a joint placing of shares by ING Barings and Goodbody Stockbrokers at 147p. The group, which operates bookmakers Paddy Power, reached a peak of 1791/2p before settling at 1681/2p.  

Also making their debuts were Finelot Group, trading at 361/2p after a placing on AIM at 35p, and Hidefield at 111/2p after floating at 10p.  

lPrices and indices in this section are supplied from various sources and calculated at different times and may not always match those listed in the tables. Ofex prices relate to the previous close.  

945078443

Document NS00000020060917dwc7003v4
?
Newscast: Business news and stock report   

236 words
7 December 2000
Minnesota Public Radio: Marketplace
MKPL
English
(c) Copyright 2000, Minnesota Public Radio. All Rights Reserved.   

Mr. MELVIN MITCHELL: Hi. My name is Melvin Mitchell. I'm the maintenance specialty man. Now let's do the numbers.   

DAVID BRANCACCIO, anchor:   

Lots of stocks traded today as investors continued to obsess over corporate earnings. The NASDAQ Composite lost 1 1/2 percent or 43 points to close at 2,752. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped a bit, losing 4/10ths percent or 47 points to end the day at 10,617.   

Motorola shook the market warning, that its fourth-quarter sales and profits will be lower than expected because of a slowdown in cell phones and semiconductor markets. But the company's stock closed down just 1/3rd of 1 percent. Is Wall Street getting blase about profit warnings?   

After the market closed,  Intel warned that its revenues will fall below expectations because of falling demand for PCs.   

Spanish-language TV network MuniVision bought the TV stations of Barry Diller's USA Networks for over $1 billion today. USA Networks up 9 percent.   

You're listening to MARKETPLACE.   

(Announcements)   

Announcer: Now you can hear MARKETPLACE when and where you want to hear it. Each day's program, complete with the day's features and top news stories, can be downloaded from the Web. Find out more by logging on to audible.com or find audible's link on our Web site. We're at MARKETPLACE.org.   

Document MKPL000020070820dwc7003k4
?
 

Abreast of the Market
 Fickle Investors, Earnings Warnings Torpedo Rally   

 By David Runk WSJ.com   
1,029 words
7 December 2000
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
11
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

 Stocks skidded Wednesday, led by technology and financial shares, as warnings from Apple Computer and Bank of America fueled worries about earnings and left the market unable to build on the previous day's record gains.   

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 234.34 points, or 2.1%, to 10664.38 after jumping 338.62, or 3.2%, the previous session. The Nasdaq Composite Index sank 93.31, or 3.2%, to 2796.49 after soaring 274.05 points, or 10.5%, on Tuesday. Other major indexes declined. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 25.08 to 1351.46, the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index dropped 7.55 to 645.72, and the Russell 2000 Index of small-capitalization stocks sank 7.63 to 463.54.   

 The market came under pressure throughout the day because of profit-taking from Tuesday's rally and weakness in technology shares. But the losses deepened in the afternoon as a warning from Bank of America put the financial sector under pressure.   

 Bond prices rallied as stocks retreated. Bonds are seen as a safe haven during turmoil in the stock market.   

 The earnings outlook, a persistent cause of concern as the economy slows, restrained the market from the open. Shares of personal-computer maker Apple fell $2.69, or 16%, to $14.31 by 4 p.m. in New York after it said late Tuesday that it will report sharply lower-than-expected revenue and a surprise loss from operations for the current quarter.   

 But the Bank of America news exacerbated the decline. Shares of Bank of America slid $3.19 to $38 after the company warned that profit for the fourth-quarter and next year will likely trail Wall Street targets, citing higher loan losses, higher credit costs and slowing capital-markets activity.   

 "The market is concerned with earnings preannouncements," said Erik Gustafson, a senior portfolio manager for Stein Roe & Farnham. "And we had another one from Bank of America this afternoon. . . . Markets don't like that." After trading solidly higher for much of the day amid optimism about the interest-rate outlook, financial stocks dropped in the afternoon.   

 Dow component J.P. Morgan fell $2.75 to $148.88 after being up as much as $7 earlier in the day. Its merger partner Chase Manhattan dropped, along with First Union, Bank One and Dow component Citigroup, following the news from Bank of America.   

 Meanwhile, the continuing legal battles over the presidential election put pressure on the market, Mr. Gustafson said, as attention focused on cases in two Florida counties. And a federal court denied an appeal by George W. Bush to throw out manual recounts in Florida.   

 Many of the Old Economy names that had advanced recently pulled back, contributing to weakness in the blue-chip average. Among them, Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing sank $1.50 to $115.13 after a two-day surge of about $17.   

 Among PC makers, Dow components International Business Machines and Hewlett-Packard fell. Dell Computer also sank. All three had earnings estimates cut by Credit Suisse First Boston, and IBM was down $6.63 to $96.75. Dow stocks and tech leaders Microsoft and Intel both dropped.   

 "Even though we had a good day [Tuesday], there are some formidable hurdles for the stock market," said Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at First Albany. "The biggest hurdle is that many companies are going to be warning that their sales and earnings are going to be lower than expected or forecast for the fourth quarter. . . . That is a strong headwind for the market." Elsewhere, Circuit City Group fell $3.13, or 24%, to $9.63. The company warned that its electronics-retailing chain, Circuit City Stores, will post a wider-than-expected loss in the fiscal third quarter amid a drop in sales and higher costs of remodeling some stores.   

 Wednesday's weakness followed the strongest one-day performance for the Nasdaq composite in point and percentage terms, and the third-biggest point gain ever for the industrial average. Shares surged Tuesday after Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan signaled that the Fed may formally abandon its tilt toward higher interest rates, extending a rally that started with optimism that the U.S. presidential election was nearing a resolution.   

 On the economic front, the Labor Department on Wednesday reported that nonfarm productivity rose at a 3.3% annual rate from July through September, down from the government's preliminary estimate of 3.8% and slightly lower than the 3.5% increase expected by economists. Unit labor costs rose at a 2.9% clip in the third quarter, up from the previous estimate of 2.5% and slightly above estimates for a 2.8% increase.   

 The data suggest American workers were less efficient on the job in the third quarter than previously thought, but the deceleration in productivity is unlikely to raise inflationary worries amid the broad slowdown in economic activity shown by recent reports.   

 The Federal Reserve released its survey of regional economies known as the "beige book" Wednesday afternoon, which showed more evidence of slowing economic growth. But investors are waiting for the employment report Friday for guidance about the economic outlook.   

 Outside the U.S., European markets closed mostly lower Wednesday. In the Asian-Pacific region, shares finished higher in the wake of Tuesday's surge by stocks on Wall Street.   

 In major U.S. market action: Stocks dropped. On the Big Board, where 1.36 billion shares traded, 1,661 stocks declined and 1,217 advanced. On the Nasdaq market, 1.27 billion shares changed hands.   

 Bonds were higher. The 10-year Treasury note was up more than 7/8, or $8.75 for each $1,000 invested, bringing the yield down to 5.295%. The 30-year bond rose 1 1/8 to yield 5.506%.   

 The dollar fell. It traded at 89.13 cents to the euro and 110.32 yen to the dollar, compared with 87.98 cents to the euro and 111.15 yen to the dollar late Tuesday in New York.   

Document wsje000020010814dwc700iod
?
 

 Business; Financial Desk 
 ORANGE COUNTY BRIEFLY  Profit Warning  Sends Water Pik Shares Down 

Dow Jones
104 words
7 December 2000
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Orange County Edition
C-4
English
 Copyright 2000 Los Angeles Times 

 Water Pik Technologies Inc.'s shares slumped 14.4% Wednesday, a day after the Newport Beach company warned of lower results for the year because of lower sales in its personal health care division. An analyst also downgraded the shares. 

 The stock fell $1.25 to $7.44 a share on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 The shares were downgraded to "accumulate" from "buy" by analyst Rommel T. Dionisio at Friedman, Billings, Ramsey & Co. 

 Water Pik makes pool products and heating systems as well as personal health products. 

Document latm000020010808dwc702fv8
?
 

 Business; Financial Desk 
 Markets Stocks Tumble After Tuesday's Run-Up 

From Times Staff and Wire Reports
909 words
7 December 2000
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-4
English
 Copyright 2000 Los Angeles Times 

 So much for the Alan Greenspan rally. 

 Stocks slumped Wednesday, failing to follow through on Tuesday's big rally, as another round of profit warnings from major companies triggered renewed selling by nervous investors. 

 The earnings woes helped the Treasury bond market, however, as more investors ran for cover. Yields fell sharply. 

 On Wall Street, the Dow Jones industrial average gave up 234.34 points, or 2.2%, to close at 10,664.38. 

 The slide took back two-thirds of Tuesday's 338.62-point Dow gain posted after Federal Reserve Chairman Greenspan strongly hinted that the central bank is prepared to cut interest rates in 2001. 

 The Nasdaq composite index fell 93.30 points, or 3.2%, to 2,796.50 on Wednesday, surrendering about a third of its record 274-point, 10.5% advance Tuesday. 

 Falling stocks outnumbered rising issues by about 17 to 12 on the New York Stock Exchange and by 24 to 15 on Nasdaq. Volume continued to be heavy. 

 The market was holding up well until Bank of America incited a wave of selling at midday by warning for the second time in a month that fourth-quarter earnings will be weaker than expected. 

 That report, combined with earnings warnings from retailer Circuit City and computer giant Apple, "brought us back to Earth," said Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at First Albany Corp. 

 Tuesday's buying spree "was probably overdone," said Barry Berman, head trader for Robert W. Baird & Co. "The presidential election hasn't been resolved yet . . . and there is still uncertainty about earnings for next year," he said. 

 Indeed, the corporate earnings "pre-announcements" are already on pace to hit a record this quarter, and most of the reports warn of weaker growth. 

 Although the Fed may well cut interest rates in 2001, "it's not going to have a significant impact on the sales and earnings of companies for at least nine months," Johnson said. "And during that period, we are going to have to slug our way through one report after another of companies telling us that their earnings are disappointing." 

 George Pierides of Fox Asset Management Inc. in Little Silver, N.J., said the unfolding economic slowdown "didn't change because of Greenspan's kind words." 

 For some nervous investors, the best answer seems to be to lock in current Treasury bond yields. 

 The Treasury market rallied strongly for a second day, sending yields lower, in the wake of Greenspan's remarks Tuesday and fresh signs Wednesday of an economic slowdown. 

 The 10-year T-note yield slid to 5.32% from 5.43% on Tuesday, and now is the lowest since early 1999. Just two months ago, the yield stood at 5.81%. 

 The yield on 2-year T-notes fell to 5.43% from 5.49% Tuesday. 

 "Bonds and cash [will] be the favored investment going forward because damage has been done" to the stock investor's psyche, said Steven Bohlin, a bond manager at Thornburg Investment in Santa Fe, N.M. 

 Corporate junk bond yields also pulled back Wednesday from recent eight-year highs. The yield on the KDP index of 100 junk bonds fell to 12.18% from 12.31% on Tuesday. 

 In other markets, the euro continued to advance against the U.S. dollar, rising to 89.2 cents from 88.1 cents. A rise above 90 cents would put the euro at its strongest level since August--and suggest that European investors are growing more wary of U.S. investments as the economy slows. 

 Among Wednesday's highlights: 

 * Bank of America's warning dragged its shares down $3.19 to $38 and pulled other bank issues down as well. Citigroup fell $1 to $49.75 after trading as high as $52.56. First Union lost $1.50 to $24 and Chase Manhattan lost $1.25 to $40.06 after rising as high as $43.25. 

 * Apple plunged $2.69 to $14.31 on its profit warning, which in turn hammered other computer stocks. Dell plummeted $2.25 to $18, Compaq slumped $4.30 to $20.10 and Gateway dropped $1.96 to $16.82. 

 * In the software sector, Microsoft lost $3.19 to $56.69, Adobe Systems slid $9.50 to $67.19 and Macromedia dropped $7.06 to $70.88. 

 * Among Internet issues, Yahoo plunged $6.38 to $37.50 after Merrill Lynch & Co. analyst Henry Blodget cut his first-quarter profit and revenue estimates for the Net's most-used search directory. 

 In the networking sector, Cisco Systems eased 69 cents to $51.44, Lucent lost $1.69 to $15.13 and JDS Uniphase fell $2.50 to $65.63. 

 But Brocade Communications gained $1.17 to $191 and Alcatel rose $1.25 to $61.25. 

 * Drug stocks, recent market stars, were down sharply. Johnson & Johnson fell $3.38 to $96.13 and Astrazeneca slid $2.19 to $48.25. 

 * On the plus side, some entertainment issues gained. Walt Disney rose $1 to $31.44 and Viacom Class B shares rose 88 cents to $55. But Gemstar slumped $6.56 to $39.06. 

 * Some beaten-down telecom issues advanced, including AT&T, up 31 cents to $20.69, and WorldCom, up 44 cents to $15.13. 

 Market Roundup: C7, C8 

 GRAPHIC-CHART: Daily Diary: Wednesday, Dec. 6, 2000; 

Document latm000020010808dwc702fj6
?
 

Abreast of the Market
 Intel Shares Fall to 52-Week Low; IBM, Dell, Bank of America Drop   

 By Robert O'Brien   
Dow Jones Newswires
1,073 words
7 December 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
C4
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

 NEW YORK -- Another round of profit pessimism weighed on the Nasdaq Composite Index a day after the index's record-setting session.   

 Intel dropped $4.25 to $31.75, falling to a 52-week low, amid a new wave of pessimism about the semiconductor company's profit performance. In a session fraught with rumors the company would guide earnings lower, Salomon Smith Barney said the fourth quarter looks to be shaping up as the company's worst quarter in more than a decade.   

 The Nasdaq Composite Index, up 274.05 points, or 10.48%, in Tuesday's rally, finished down 93.30, or 3.23%, at 2796.50. It marked the 12th time this year the composite index failed to finish higher in the trading day that followed a gain of 5% or more.   

 "You might have thought you saw signs the sentiment had changed with yesterday's rally," Tim Grazioso, manager of Nasdaq trading at Cantor Fitzgerald, said. "But this has been a market that finds it impossible to keep the uptrend going for a couple days at a time. It's really doing some damage to investor psychology."   

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average suffered a steep loss of its own, down 234.34 points, or 2.15%, at 10664.38, thanks to steep declines in computer makers. International Business Machines lost 6.63 to 96.75, after Credit Suisse First Boston chopped its earnings forecasts, as well as for Dell Computer, which sustained a drop of 2.25 to close at 18, after marking a 52-week low.   

 Technology stocks weren't the only victims of profit pessimism in the session. Bank of America lost 3.19 to 38, reaching its low for the last 52 weeks, on a warning of weaker profit at the bank.   

 Analysts worried that other banks exposed to deteriorating credit quality would have to revisit their earnings assumptions. First Union, for example, fell 1.50 to 24 and traded at a 52-week low intraday, after CIBC World Markets warned that it expected analysts to have to lower their forecasts for the bank's profit. Ditto for Bank One, which slipped 1.06 to 34.38, CIBC said. Citigroup declined 1 to 49.75, J.P. Morgan declined 2.75 to 148.88, and Chase Manhattan fell 1.25 to 40.06, while brokers such as Lehman Brothers, down 1.38 to 56.69, and Bear Stearns, off 1.13 to 48.25, also retreated.   

 The group had thrived in Tuesday's rally, as investors interpreted some comments from Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, as an indication that interest rates could be headed lower.   

 The biggest fallout from profit weakness took place in high technology. Apple Computer (Nasdaq) slid to a 52-week low, dropping 2.69 to 14.31, after the personal-computer maker warned late Tuesday that it would miss expectations for the December quarter by a wide margin.   

 Hewlett-Packard acknowledged that PC sales on the retail level won't be as robust in its 2001 fiscal year as they were in 2000. The stock declined 3 to 32, nearing the 52-week low of 30.50 from Nov. 30.   

 Investors interpreted the weakness in the outlook for PCs as a trial for software developers and sent Adobe Systems (Nasdaq) down 9.50 to 67.19. Microsoft (Nasdaq) lost 3.19 to 56.69, and Veritas Software (Nasdaq), which jumped 21% Tuesday, slid 10.13 to 112.06.   

 Motorola declined 1.19 to 17.81, falling to a 52-week low, after Lehman Brothers cut its estimate for industrywide mobile-phone handset sales, the third time the company has lowered its sales estimate for the industry. Ericsson, the Finnish handset manufacturer, eased 31 cents to 13.31, though Nokia managed to hold its own, finishing unchanged at 51.38, after improving 15% Tuesday.   

 Juniper Networks (Nasdaq) lost 15.70 to 140.30. Ericsson sold about 10.4 million shares of the Mountain View, Calif., Internet-software developer that it purchased before Juniper went public, as part of the companies' plans for a new mobile Internet joint venture.   

 Diamond Technology Partners (Nasdaq) shed 11.06 to 28.44, sinking to a 52-week low. Lehman Brothers cut its earnings estimates for the Chicago provider of management-consulting services' 2002 fiscal year, and lowered its 12-month price target on the stock.   

 Among the technology gainers, Celestica added 3.19 to 62.81. The Canadian contract-electronics manufacturer reached an agreement to supply Motorola more than $1 billion of services over three years.   

 Rival electronics manufacturer Flextronics (Nasdaq), which has an agreement to supply Motorola, fell 2.44 to 29.88.   

 Inktomi (Nasdaq) gained 3.56 to 38, extending Tuesday's gains, when the stock rose 57%. The Foster City, Calif., networking-software developer reached an agreement with Hughes Electronics under which Hughes Network Systems will deploy Inktomi caching technology in its network centers. Hughes finished 1.50 lower at 24.15.   

 Dow Jones fell 5.88 to 53.44. The New York publishing and media concern, which publishes The Wall Street Journal, warned this it wouldn't live up to earnings expectations in the fourth quarter, citing what it described as soft demand for advertising.   

 New York Times gained 3.06 to 39.88. The publishing and media concern said it expected to live up to Wall Street's profit targets for 2000.   

 Circuit City declined 3.13 to 9.63, sinking to a 52-week low. The Richmond, Va., consumer-electronics retailer reported weaker-than-expected third-quarter results, including declining sales in its consumer-electronics operations, prompting CIBC World Markets to cut its rating on the stock to hold from buy.   

 Visteon lost 3.38 to 11.06. The Dearborn, Mich., automotive-systems supplier warned that its fourth-quarter earnings won't be as strong as analysts had anticipated. The outlook came on the heels of cautious guidance on profits from auto maker Ford Motor last week. Ford eased 88 cents to 23.88 Wednesday.   

 Comverse Technology moved higher intraday following the Woodbury, N.Y., communications-network developer's report late Tuesday of better-than-expected third-quarter results, but gains faded into the close, leaving the stock down 3.50 to 95.50 on Nasdaq.   

Document j000000020010807dwc700vdy
?
 

 Tokyo stocks end lower on Wall Street's retreat 

456 words
7 December 2000
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 TOKYO, Dec 7 (AFP) - Share prices in Tokyo closed 1.1 percent lower Thursday as investors sold high-technology issues following a retreat by US markets, brokers said. 

 The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index shed 169.01 points to close at 14,720.36. The Topix index of all first-section issues on the stock market fell 12.88 points to 1,368.17. 

 "Buying sentiment was weak throughout the day because of the fall on Wall Street yesterday," said Tatsuo Kurokawa, senior market analyst at Nomura Securities. 

 In New York Wednesday, the tech-heavy Nasdaq fell 92.80 points or 3.2 percent to 2,797.00 a day after a record gain of 10.5 percent, or 274 points. 

 The Dow Jones industrials tumbled 233.59 points or 2.1 percent to 10,665.13, giving up most of Tuesday's 338-point gain. 

 US shares dropped following profit warnings from key firms including Apple Computer Inc. and Bank of America. 

 The profit warning by Apple dampened buying sentiment in Tokyo as well, Nomura's Kurokawa said. 

 "Many Japanese hi-tech issues were sold off because of the Apple warning," he said. 

 Investors were also reluctant to buy shares ahead of a decision by Morgan Stanley Capital International on whether to adopt a new calculation method for its indices, brokers said. 

 "Investors are cautious of trading before the MSCI decision, which at first dragged down futures but then saw selling spread across the board," said  Nikko Securities senior market analyst Hiroichi Nishi. 

 MSCI, whose share indices are the global benchmark for portfolio managers, is expected to switch this weekend to a "free float" to decide the weighting of Japanese companies on its indices. 

 There are fears of a big outflow from Tokyo shares as fund managers adjust their portfolios, because many Japanese companies have only a small percentage of their shares freely floating on the market. Most are tied up in cross-shareholdings or held by founding families. 

 "Ahead of Morgan's announcement, investors did not want to take any drastic action. They opted to take a wait-and-see stance instead," Nomura's Kurokawa said. 

 Trading was moderate with volume estimated at 591 million shares against Wednesday's 708.0 million shares. 

 Among losers, Japanese semiconductor testing firm Advantest Corp. lost 240 yen to 13,270 and Fujitsu Ltd., Japan's top computer maker, declined 11 yen to 1,855. 

 Electronics giant NEC Corp. fell 50 yen to 2,340 and Toshiba Corp. lost nine to 816. 

 Sony Corp. fell 130 yen to 8,670 and Internet investor Softbank Corp. dropped 350 or 5.8 percent to 5,650. 

 shi/ja/bro 

Document afpr000020010803dwc70556o
?
 

Nation/World
BUSINESS
NATION WORLD

Associated Press and Bloomberg News   
1,003 words
7 December 2000
Charlotte Observer (NC)
CLTO
ONE-THREE
1D
English
Copyright 2000 The Charlotte Observer. All rights reserved.   

'Beige book' shows slower economy

The economy showed further signs of slowing in November with weakness in auto sales, manufacturing and construction, the Federal Reserve said Wednesday.

In its latest survey of business conditions around the country, the Fed reported "further evidence of slowing in economic growth."

The Fed survey, known as the beige book for the color of its cover, will be used when the central bank meets Dec. 19.

Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan sparked a huge rally on Wall Street on Tuesday when he said the U.S. economy had slowed "appreciably."

His remarks were seen as signaling that the Fed saw no need to raise interest rates further to fight inflation and instead would be ready to cut rates if it appeared growth was slowing so much that the risks of a recession were increasing.

Financial markets are not expecting the Fed to cut interest rates at its December meeting, but they do believe the Fed will move its policy statement to neutral and away from the position it has been for almost two years of leaning toward higher rates.

- Associated Press

*

Productivity rises 3.3% but so do labor costs in 3rd quarter

Americans' productivity, the main ingredient for rising living standards, rose at a healthy 3.3 percent clip in the summer, but labor costs accelerated at the fastest pace in more than a year, the government reported Wednesday.

The Labor Department said the increase in productivity was slightly lower than an estimate a month ago that productivity was rising annually at 3.8 percent.

The department said unit labor costs, a key measure of wage pressures, rose at a 2.9 percent annual rate in the third quarter, the fastest pace since a 4.3 percent jump in the April-June quarter of 1999.

Worker productivity, measured by the amount of output per hour of work, is the key to improvements in the standard of living. As long as workers are becoming more efficient, their employers can afford to pay them more without having to boost the cost of their products.

Productivity rose for all of 1999 by 2.9 percent following a 2.6 percent gain in 1998. Both increases were more than double the average annual gains for the two decades following 1973.

- Associated Press

*

Wednesday's news turns markets down

Stocks turned around abruptly Wednesday as a darkening earnings outlook prompted investors to resume selling and wiped out much of Tuesday's big advance in the Dow industrials.

A profit warning from Apple Computer after the markets closed Tuesday stifled the rally set off by Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan, who had hinted that the Fed is inclined to lower interest rates early next year. And a warning from Bank of America in midafternoon Wednesday brought stocks even lower.

The Dow Jones industrial average fell 234.34 to close Wednesday at 10,664.38. The losses obliterated a big chunk of the Dow's 338-point gain Tuesday.

The Nasdaq composite index lost 93.30 to end at 2,796.50. The tech-focused index had advanced 274 points or 10.5 percent on Tuesday, the Nasdaq's biggest one-day percentage and point gains ever.

The broader Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 25.08 to 1,351.46 following Tuesday's 51-point gain.

- Associated Press

*

Loose will move to top spot at Corning Inc. Jan. 1

Corning Inc., the No. 1 maker of glass used in telecommunications networks, said John Loose will succeed Roger Ackerman as the company's chief executive Jan. 1.

Loose, 58, currently serves as Corning's president and chief operating officer. Ackerman, 62, will remain chairman until June 21, when Corning holds its annual meeting, the company said.

Corning also announced new heads of its two operating units. Wendell Weeks, 41, was named president of Corning Optical Communications, which includes the company's optical fiber, components and other telecommunications-equipment businesses. Peter Volanakis, 45, was appointed president of Corning Technologies, whose businesses include the company's computer- display, life-science and chip-equipment operations.

The company, based in Corning, N.Y., and employing about 5,000 people in the Carolinas, said Vice Chairman Norman Garrity, 59, will leave the board in February and retire in March. Charles Deneka, the 56-year-old chief technology officer, will retire on Jan. 1.

Donald McConnell, 56, was appointed director of Corning Science & Technology. He will lead the unit until a new chief technology officer is named next year.

Corning also named Weeks, Volanakis and Chief Financial Officer James Flaws as directors.

- Bloomberg News

*

In Brief

XEROX CORP. said Vice Chairman William Buehler will retire on Jan. 15, after postponing his retirement for two years to aid the world's largest copier company's attempt to boost sales and profit. Buehler, 61, joined Xerox in 1991 after 27 years with AT&T Corp. He headed the group that sells higher-priced copiers and publishing machines and oversaw the direct sales force before being promoted to vice chairman in 1999, the company said in a statement.

IBP INC. has agreed to enter merger talks with Tyson Foods Inc., which has made a $2.8 billion offer to acquire IBP, the country's largest beef producer and second-largest pork producer. A special committee made up of independent board members not employed by IBP is handling the talks, IBP said in a statement Wednesday. IBP also is weighing competing proposals from Virginia-based Smithfield Foods Inc., the world's largest hog producer and processor, and Rawhide Holdings Corp., a group that includes IBP senior management. Any merger involving IBP is expected to be reviewed by the Justice Department for antitrust concerns. Tyson, based in Arkansas, would give IBP shareholders $26 for each of their common shares. Half would be in cash and half in stock. Smithfield Foods' unsolicited proposal on Nov. 12 was for $25 a share in stock.

Document CLTO000020090630dwc701ds1
?
Newscast: Business news and stock report   

265 words
7 December 2000
CBS News: The Early Show
CBST
English
(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

JULIE CHEN, anchor:   

It's time for this morning's MarketWatch with Alexis Christoforous.   

Good morning, Alexis.   

ALEXIS CHRISTOFOROUS reporting:   

Good morning, Julie.   

Well, just when you think the bulls are ready for another run, we get hit with yet another tech wreck. A profit warning from  Apple Computer turned investors sour on other PC makers.   

And the Dow gave up most of Tuesday's big gain, down 234 points to 10,664.   

(Graphic on screen)   

CBS MarketWatch cbs.marketwatch.com   

Dow Jones Industrials   

10,664.38 down 234.34   

CHRISTOFOROUS: The NASDAQ surrendered about a third of its record Tuesday surge, down 93 points.   

(Graphic on screen)   

CBS MarketWatch cbs.marketwatch.com   

NASDAQ   

2,796.50 down 93.30   

CHRISTOFOROUS:  Intel fell to a 52-week low. That's after an analyst said  Intel's fourth quarter could be its worst in a decade.   

Bank stocks were knocked for a loop after  Bank of America raised the red flag and sounded a profit warning of it's own.   

And  Hasbro became the latest profit casualty. The toy maker warned it could post a loss for the year.  Hasbro blames a worldwide decline in trading card games and weakness in the toy market.   

And keep an eye on  Univision Communications today. It's reportedly close to a deal to buy TV stations owned by USA Networks. The Wall Street Journal reports that deal could be worth more than $1 billion.   

You can head to cbs.marketwatch.com or AOL, keyword MarketWatch for more.   

CHEN: Great, thanks a lot, Alexis.   

Document CBST000020070818dwc7006ou
?
Newscast: Stock report and business news   

559 words
7 December 2000
CBS News: Morning News
CBSM
English
(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

JULIE CHEN, anchor:   

It only took a day for Wall Street to give back most of Tuesday's gains. The Dow tumbled 234 points on Wednesday, ending at 10,664.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Dow Jones Industrials   

10,664.38 down 234.34   

Volume: 1,399,310,000   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

CHEN: The NASDAQ lost 93 points to close at 2,796.   

(Graphic on screen)   

NASDAQ   

2,796.50 down 93.30   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

CHEN: And, in Tokyo, the Nikkei Index lost 1 percent overnight.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Tokyo Nikkei Average   

14,720.36 down 169.01   

Change: down 1.14%   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

CHEN: As in the past few months, it was lower earnings that triggered the sell-off. CBS MarketWatch analyst Alexis Christoforous has more on that.   

ALEXIS CHRISTOFOROUS reporting:   

Well, Tuesday's big rally proved to be a one-day wonder. A string of high-profile profit warnings socked it to investors, wiping out nearly all of Tuesday's gains. That profit warning from  Apple Computer took a bite out of tech stocks.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Sour Apple   

Apple Computer (AAPL)   

down to 2.69 14.31   

CHRISTOFOROUS: And that turned investors sour on other PC makers, including Gateway, IBM and  Compaq Computer.

(Graphic on screen)   

PC Tumble   

Gateway IBM Compaq (GTW) (IBM) (CPQ)   

down down down 1.96 6.62 4.30 to to to 16.92 96.75 20.10   

CHRISTOFOROUS: Here at the NASDAQ, PC maker  Dell took it on the chin, down more than 11 percent. And  Intel was absolutely hammered. The stock now at a new 52-week low of just under $32 a share. And analysts at Salomon Smith Barney said  Intel's fourth quarter could be the worst in over a decade.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Bruised Banks   

Bank Of Chase America  J.P. Morgan Manhattan (BAC) (JPM) (CMB)   

down down down 3.19 2.75 1.25 to to to 38.00 148.88 40.06   

CHRISTOFOROUS: And it wasn't just the tech news that suffered. Bank stocks were thrown for a loop after  Bank of America raised the red flag and sounded a profit warning of its own. That dragged down other financial stocks like  J.P. Morgan and Chase Manhattan. And the bad news just kept on coming.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Stocks In The Spotlight   

Circuit CityHome Depot (CC) (HD)   

down up 3.12 1.44 to to 9.62 45.06   

CHRISTOFOROUS:  Circuit City tumbled. The electronics retailer warned it will lose more money than expected in the third quarter. But  Home Depot was able to buck the trend. That's after the home improvement chain hired a  General Electric executive as its new CEO.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Stocks To Watch   

Hasbro (HAS)   

CHRISTOFOROUS: And in after-the-bell news,  Hasbro became the latest company to sound a profit warning. The struggling toymaker warned it may report an unexpected loss in the fourth quarter and slash up to 750 jobs. At the NASDAQ market site, I'm Alexis Christoforous, CBS MarketWatch.   

CHEN: For the latest on the markets, click on cbs.marketwatch.com.   

Straight ahead on the MORNING NEWS, your Thursday morning forecast.   

And in sports, the Lakers' Kobe Bryant and the Warriors' Antawn Jamison put up 51 points each in a scoring duel for the ages.   

(Announcements)   

Document CBSM000020070818dwc7003a8
?
 

Chanticleer
US conditions are a plus for us

John Durie   
1,402 words
7 December 2000
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
Late
36
English
Copyright 2000. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.   

The Australian stockmarket yesterday didn't trust the record Wall Street rally earlier in the day, but the news behind that rally is basically good for the Australian market.

If it weren't for the 4.5 per cent increase in News Corp's stock price, its combined 13-point contribution to the Australian index would have left the local market in negative territory.

This was an extraordinary reaction when you consider the Dow rose 3.2 per cent earlier and the Nasdaq 10 per cent, but then the latter index is still down 29 per cent for the year and yesterday marked the 12th time this year it has risen 5 per cent or more in a single day.

Straight after the market closed, Apple Computer issued a profit warning serving to remind everyone why Fed chief Alan Greenspan spoke earlier about an appreciable slowing of the economy.

What he said just validated the market's thinking, and it is worth noting Wall Street is pricing in a 1 per cent cut in US interest rates next year.

But the fact that the big man told the world he was on the job was combined with the fact that the US presidential election seems close to an outcome. And US mutual fund cash levels, at their highest point for more than two years, were enough to send US punters running with relief that the economy will have a soft landing.

Lower oil prices are also helping that belief, and that plus the 8 per cent rally in the $A in the past fortnight against the greenback are the most obvious bullish points for the Australian market from the US.

The US does have a few problems like a current account deficit of some 4.3 per cent of GDP and, on the latest numbers, a negative savings rate, which, according to Morgan Stanley's Steve Roach, is an unprecedented level of domestic consumption outstripping income-generating capacity.

These imbalances are one problem area, and a slowing economy and slower profit growth are other areas of concern for domestic and US investors.

Bulls like Goldman Sach's Abby Cohen are still tipping a 17 per cent climb for the S&P 500 to 1650 points over the next year. But the stockmarket right now is trying to work out how to play the near future, with local banks rallying in a defensive play. There have been such extraordinary results as Commonwealth Bank trading at an 8 per cent discount to market price-earnings multiples despite what should be substantially lower returns after its Colonial purchase against an average historical discount

closer to 19 per cent.

Resources stocks have run while the world economy is slowing and everyone is chasing yesterday's dogs, searching for a prevailing theme. While none is obvious right now, a US soft landing, if achieved, and a lower $US are clear pluses for the local markets.

As the AFL works towards selecting its new football broadcast partners, the ACCC spent much of yesterday's regular commission meeting working through just what stance it should take.

No final decision was taken, but, as noted previously, the more the issues are examined, the less chance Kerry Stokes from Seven Network has in using the ACCC to do his work for him.

If Seven thinks there is a trade practices problem, it will have to take its own action.

Just nine days after US legend Jack Welch chose Jeff Immelt as his heir at GE, the other two short-listed candidates have found new jobs outside the company.

First to go was aircraft boss James McNerney, who will be the boss of Minnesota Manufacturing and Mining (3M), and yesterday Robert Nardelli (GE Power) shocked Wall Street by accepting the top job at retailer Home Depot.

Australian boards must wonder why it is not so easy for them considering the job searches in train for the CFO slot at Telstra, the chief executive and CFO jobs at Brambles and now the chief executive job at Pacifica.

Phil Cornish controls some 51 per cent of Mobile Communications and is talking to Vodafone plc about selling the company's 4.5 per cent stake in the phone giant's local shop.

The sums cited are $247.5 million or $5 a share and word of the deal has sent Mobile's stock price down to near 10 per cent in the past five days to close yesterday at $5.50.

Cornish is close to the lads at Vodafone in Australia and just whether he wants out will be known in a matter of days.

This is all very well for Cornish, but what about his minority shareholders and just why hasn't the regulator inquired as to what is happening with negotiations over the bulk of the company's assets?

If Cornish agrees to accept a bargain-basement price for his stock, there are two ways the money can can be delivered: a Vodafone plc bid for the company or a pro rata return of the cash. The latter would involve a shareholder meeting, and some say there are plenty of big Mobile shareholders who will just take any cash on offer, having suffered as the company's stock price has fallen to a third of its 52-week high price of $15.50 a share this time last year.

Others might question the need to sell at the bottom of the market given that Vodafone's local boss, Brian Clarke, has made clear a float will proceed if market conditions are right in the new year.

So Cornish may have a fight on his hands.

While on matters telco, it is worth noting that at an industry conference yesterday Telstra stepped up its campaign against the ACCC, warning that unless the regulator allows it a fair rate of return on its basic phone lines, investment will come to a halt.

With the rest of Telstra now negotiating with Doug Moriaty's wholesale division at "transparent" prices and retail boss Ted Pretty trying to cut the price he pays for the phone-line access, it is harder for the ACCC to point to in-house subsidies at Telstra.

That's the line of attack presented in what has been a traditional battle between infrastructure suppliers and the regulator.

With more than a century in the business of providing some of the best garden brand names in the country, Arthur Yates is now negotiating with Perth-based agri-business fund manager Ross Norgard over a capital injection to keep the company afloat.

Norgard, among other investments, runs a series of quality rural-based tax-deferment schemes and the line of thinking is that Yates will provide him with a range of products through its tissue cloning business and from orchids to teak trees to offer as investment vehicles for his clients.

Whether Norgard will be topped by a rival bid will depend on how bad Yates' finances really are and this will become known when the scheme-of-arrangement documents are released.

The terms of the deal are still being worked through, closely watched by NAB, which is the main banker to Yates with some $35 million on loan to the company.

Given the all-in-the-family nature of life at Yates, with Geoff Brunsdon, son of long-standing director Norman, advising on the deal and Yates under executive control of Ian Fraser who Brunsdon Jnr worked with at Baring Brothers Halkerston back in the 1980s when Fraser was at Pioneer Sugar. All that is needed is for Futuris to bid for the company. Futuris's in-house corporate adviser, Les Wozniczka, worked with Brunsdon at Barings.

All this is of little solace for Yates's shareholders like Brunsdon's friend and Yates director Rob Purves who was in from day one at $1 a share back in 1993 and is now looking like getting less than one quarter that amount for his 10 per cent stake.

Just what went wrong at Yates depends on how long you have to listen to the tales of woe, with the bottom line being it was a company that was probably better left in private hands and one that failed to keep a control on manufacturing costs, ending in financial paucity despite hugely valuable brand names.

Document AFNR000020111227dwc700nbx
?
 

 Greenspan sends market soaring - Talk of turning point as Hang Seng surges 525 points. 

 By David Wilder and Cathy Holcombe. 
703 words
7 December 2000
South China Morning Post
SCMP
English
(c) 2000

 Hong Kong stocks soared more than 500 points yesterday after remarks by the chairman of the US Federal Reserve electrified Wall Street on Tuesday. Analysts said the rally could prove a turning point for the market. 

 The Hang Seng Index climbed 525.74 points, or 3.6 per cent, to 15,098.95. Investors were reacting to hints by Alan Greenspan that a policy shift on interest rates could be on the cards amid evidence of an economic slowdown. 

 "That's a good signal," said John Lai, chief investment officer of Nikko Global Asset Management. "If they're looking into cutting interest rates next year, that will be beneficial for Hong Kong because it's recovering and is at a better stage than the US economy." 

 Other Asian bourses took the news more cautiously, with indices up 1.32 per cent in Japan, 1.08 per cent in Singapore, and 0.18 per cent in South Korea. Taiwan fell. 

 "Hong Kong has been the best performer and was led by the developers," said ING Barings sales trader Jeremy Norris. "(It) is a more interest rate-sensitive market than anywhere else in the region." 

 Lower interest rates make it cheaper for firms and homeowners to borrow money and encourage investors to switch from bonds to stocks. The Dow Jones Industrials Average rose 3.2 per cent on Tuesday, while the Nasdaq, victim of near panic selling in recent months, surged 10.48 per cent to 2,889.80 - the biggest one-day gain in the history of the index. A European stock rally petered out as investors took profits. Early today, the Dow Jones was down 107.22 points, or 0.98 per cent, at 10,791.5, partly due to a profit warning from Apple computers. 

 Hong Kong and other Asian markets had been waiting some time for good news. Stocks have taken a battering amid a series of earnings downgrades by US technology groups. 

 Some now predict that the market is set for an end of year rally. "This may be a turning point," said Sean Darby, a strategist at Dresdner Kleinwort Benson Asian. "There's been some confirmation that we'll get an interest rate cut early in the first quarter, so markets feel they have some insurance." 

 He said investors would find it easier to focus on positives like the mainland's expected entry into the World Trade Organisation next year, rather than negatives such as the slowdown in the US technology sector. 

 The news coincided with falling oil prices and signs that the US presidential race may soon be reaching a conclusion. 

 There were indications yesterday that fund managers - sitting on high cash levels as a defence against further stock price falls - were ready to start spending again. More than $14 billion worth of shares traded hands, the highest turnover in nearly 2.5 months. 

 Interest rate-sensitive counters led the charge, with the Hang Seng property sub-index climbing 7.48 per cent. Sun Hung Kai Properties jumped 9.27 per cent to $70.75, and Cheung Kong added 6.65 per cent to $96.25. 

 Steve Brown, head of research at Kim Eng Securities, said the mainland's WTO accession and slower growth for Western economies next year meant that "Hong Kong and China, on paper, is the best investment story in a fairly flat world". 

 Developers would continue to lead gains in Hong Kong, he said. "The decline in Hong Kong property prices - that story's finished. It's just a matter of whether they're stable or if they move up. I suspect they could move up rather more steeply and rather more quickly than the market would expect." 

 Not all analysts were convinced the rally could be sustained. Josephine Hui of Celestial Securities Asia said the telecom sector, hit by worries over the viability of the third generation mobile telephone system, remained shaky. "Properties alone aren't good enough," she said. "If the telecoms stocks can't regain their strength, I wonder if the Hang Seng can challenge the 16,000 point level again." 

Document scmp000020010816dwc700sgp
?
 

 Tech plays lead Nasdaq's biggest 1-day gain. 

 By Jennifer Lien. 
602 words
7 December 2000
Business Times Singapore
STBT
English
(c) 2000 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

 Sentiment gets boost from Greenspan assurance, hopes of end to presidential election saga 

 TECH stocks led Nasdaq's biggest-ever one-day gain on Tuesday as hopes for an interest rate cut drew bargain-hunters back into the market. The Nasdaq Composite Index's 10.5 per cent gain to 2,889.76 was its biggest-ever jump in both percentage and point terms. 

 But the tech-heavy index is still 43.7 per cent below its March record of 5,132.52. 

 The rebound came as a huge relief for many investors. Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan's reassuring words on the US economy, combined with the prospect of an end to the US presidential election saga, were just what investors had been waiting to hear. 

 "When you have a market that's been as repressed as this, you set up this kind of coil-spring syndrome. You get some good news and that's all it takes," Larry Wachtel, a market analyst with Prudential Securities, told the Associated Press. 

 Cisco Systems led the Nasdaq's most active stocks, rising 13.8 per cent to US$52.125. Other top-volume stocks included Intel Corp (up 9.3 per cent to US$36), Oracle (up 11.75 per cent to US$31.50), Microsoft Corp (up 6.1 per cent), Dell Computer (up 7.64 per cent), and Sun Microsystems (up 16.32 per cent). 

 A bullish forecast from Finnish wireless telecoms leader Nokia gave an initial lift to the Nasdaq early in the trading session. At US$51-3/8 on Tuesday, Nokia's shares are now valued at some 65 per cent higher than its October all-time low. 

 But not all tech stocks rode on the euphoria. A profit warning from networking equipment maker 3Com shaved a quarter of its shares' value on Tuesday - the stock closed US$3.3438 lower at US$10.0312. Another warning from chipmaker Xilinx led the stock to drop 2 per cent to US$40.88. 

 Yesterday, all eyes were on Apple Computer, which said it would suffer a loss in the usually-hot Christmas quarter. The stock fell in after-hours trading from US$17 to US$15.01. It has lost half its value since an earlier earnings warning in September. 

 Other after-hours action: Intel, Microsoft and Dell all fell slightly, while Cisco and Sun continued to rise. 

 Meanwhile, while Silicon Valley companies continue to enjoy strong profits in 2000, a continued boom seems less likely to be sustainable. 

 Several warning signs - slower chip sales in October indicate a moderation in a booming semiconductor market, says the Semiconductor Industry Association, while chip equipment association Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International just said growth will slow from a torrid 83 per cent to just 22 per cent next year. 

 PC sales have been slowing and holiday shoppers do not seem to be snapping up new computers this Christmas. 

 High-speed Internet service providers have been reporting viability problems. All this indicate problems in the Old Economy side of the high-tech business, on top of the ongoing dotcom shakeout that caused Nasdaq's crash. 

 Still, there is a feeling that after such a long, hard slump, stocks are highly undervalued and should make up some ground, at least in the near future. 

 "The market is saying lower interest rates in the future mean higher valuations," CNBC quoted Barry Hyman, chief investment officer for Weatherly Securities, as saying. "Growth stocks can now be valued, eventually, at some higher multiple again." 

Document stbt000020010817dwc700a4t
?
 

 BUSINESS 
 Exports lift soybean prices 

 VICTORIA SIZEMORE LONG 
The Kansas City Star
329 words
7 December 2000
The Kansas City Star
KCST
METROPOLITAN
C7
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 Chicago soybean futures prices closed higher Wednesday, buoyed partly by exports. Kansas City wheat and Chicago wheat and corn futures prices finished lower. 

 Kansas City Value Line stock index futures and Isdex Internet stock index futures also closed lower. 

 Reports that China had bought up to 250,000 tons of soybeans enabled the soybean market to shake out of a two-day slump prompted by the European Union's decision to adopt only a limited ban on the use of meat and bone meal as animal feed. 

 Corn futures fell under pressure from continued sluggish exports. But the decline was minimal amid expectations that Japan and the United States soon will reach an agreement regarding the controversial StarLink brand. StarLink is genetically modified corn and has not been approved for human consumption. 

 Wheat futures prices were pressured by slack export business and a decreased threat of cold-weather damage expected next week in major wheat regions. 

 The Kansas City Value Line and Isdex closed lower as  profit- taking following Tuesday's big run-up hit stocks across the  board, Kansas City trader Paul Dow said. 

 A darker outlook for earnings, including a profit warning from Apple Computer, also weighed on the market. 

 Today's market "will be a better indicator of where the market  is going to go," Dow said. "We'll find out if there will be a resumption of the downward move or if it was just profit-taking before we go back up." 

 Kansas City Value Line stock index cash settled down 1,465 basis points at 1,088.29. The December contract settled down 1,500 basis points at 1,089.00. Isdex cash settled down 1,466 basis points at 457.28. The December contract settled down 1,400 basis points at 459.00. 

 - To reach Victoria Sizemore Long, call (816) 234-4374 or send  e- mail to vlong@kcstar.com 

Document kcst000020010807dwc700ryt
?
 

Stock Markets
 Financial Post Investing 
 Profit warnings send blue chips, techs reeling: Bank of America, Apple: 'People are still very anxious about prospects for 2001' 

Financial Post, with files from news services
1,541 words
7 December 2000
National Post
FINP
National
D02
English
 (c) National Post 2000. All Rights Reserved. 

 A profit warning from the largest bank in the United States jolted stock markets yesterday, driving down financial industry shares that had been regarded as a refuge from volatility. 

 Bank of America stock (BAC/ NYSE) skidded US$3 3/16 to US$38 after the company warned of poor fourth-quarter earnings and said it is budgeting for significantly higher loan and credit losses in 2001. 

 Bank of America also cited higher credit costs and slower capital markets activity, which the bank expects to remain a problem into next year. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 234.34 points, or 2.2%, to 10,664.38. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 index dropped 25.08 points, or 1.8%, to 1351.46. 

 The Nasdaq composite index fell 93.30 points, or 3.2%, to end at 2796.50. 

 On Tuesday, the Nasdaq broke the record for one-day point and percentage gains with a rise of 274 points, or 10.5%. At the same time, the Dow added 3.2%, or nearly 340 points. 

 Among Dow stocks, International Business Machines Corp. (IBM/NYSE) fell US$6 5/8 to US$96 3/4, Intel Corp. (INTC/NASDAQ) was off US$4 1/4 to US$31 3/4, just above a new 52-week low of $31 1/4 hit earlier in the day, and Hewlett-Packard Co. (HWP/NYSE) dropped US$3 to US$32. 

 Technology stocks also fell sharply after an earnings warning from Apple Computer Inc. that came after Tuesday's close. 

 "People are still very anxious about what these specific companies ... the core of technology companies, will say about prospects for 2001," said Ned Riley, chief investment strategist at State Street Global Advisors in Boston. "We will be living in a fragile sentiment environment until the CEOs and CFOs give full disclosure." 

 Apple (AAPL/NASDAQ) fell nearly 16%, or US$2 11/16, to US$14 5/16. 

 Rival personal computer makers also fell sharply after Apple's earnings warning. Dell Computer Corp. (DELL/NASDAQ) fell US$2 1/4 to US$18 on active Nasdaq trade and Gateway Inc. (GTW/NYSE) slipped US$1.96 to $16.82, while Compaq Computer Corp. (CPQ/NYSE) was off US$4.30 at US$20.10. 

 Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was 1.37 billion shares, compared with 1.40 billion on Tuesday. 

 --- 

 Canada's key stock market index closed lower, weighed down by losses in the U.S. after strong rallies on Tuesday. The Toronto Stock Exchange 300 composite index fell 48.45 points, or 0.5%, to 9230.59. 

 The blue-chip S&P/TSE 60 benchmark gave up 3.58 points, or 0.7%, to 548.67. 

 The Toronto market outperformed New York, but mirrored the weakness, said Fred Ketchen, managing director at Scotia Capital Markets, adding there's still some volatility ahead. 

 Technology stocks were mixed. Nortel Networks Corp. (NT/TSE) declined $1.10 to $61.30, accounting for more than 70% of the TSE's drop. 

 JDS Uniphase Corp. (JDU/TSE) fell $3.50 to $103.50. 

 On the upside, electronics manufacturer Celestica Inc. (CLS/TSE) climbed $4.30 to $96.30 after entering a strategic alliance with Motorola that will see Celestica supply more than US$1-billion of services to Motorola over three years. 

 All but two of the TSE's 14 stock groups fell, with the transportation sector down 3.1% as Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR/ TSE) dropped $2.30 to $46.65. 

 Toronto's oil and gas group ended down 0.8% as crude oil prices in New York spent most of the session in negative territory, but rallied at the end of the day. 

 In the group, Suncor Energy Inc. (SU/TSE) closed down $1.60 at $33.65, while Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO/TSE) gave up $1.40 to $39.25, but Berkley Petroleum Corp. (BKP/TSE), a natural gas explorer, closed up 90 cents to $9.05 on optimism about wells it's drilling in California and on speculation it may be a takeover target, an analyst said. 

 The gold subindex continued to have a volatile week, gaining 5.2% as the February gold price on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange rose US$3.90 to US$274.30 an ounce. On Tuesday, the group fell 4.8%, after climbing 3.6% on Monday. 

 Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX/TSE) gained $1.35 to $24.25. 

 Among individual blue chips, telecommunications firm BCE Inc. (BCE/TSE) fell 35 cents to $42. 

 Volume on the TSE was 160.2 million shares, compared with 165.4 million on Tuesday. 

 The Canadian Venture Exchange index fell 19.37 points, or 0.7%, to 2884.06. 

 CANADIAN STOCKS: 

 Net   %   52W      52W 

 Index      Close     chg    chg     high     low 

 TSE 300      9230.59 -48.45   -0.52 11401.97 7767.67 

 TSE 200       478.64  +0.47   +0.10   551.66  426.33 

 TSE 100       574.40  -3.45   -0.60   717.25  477.79 

 S&P/TSE 60    548.67  -3.58   -0.65   698.58  459.89 

 Toronto 35    562.80  -2.97   -0.52   610.98  444.93 

 CDNX Index   2884.06 -19.37   -0.67  4526.06 2022.84 

 --Yr over yr--   --Yr to date-- 

 Index      net chg   % chg  net chg % chg 

 TSE 300     +1373.07 +17.47 +816.84    +9.71 

 TSE 200       +52.29 +12.26  +15.39    +3.32 

 TSE 100       +88.54 +18.22  +55.35   +10.66 

 S&P/TSE 60    +80.00 +17.07  +52.81   +10.65 

 Toronto 35   +111.67 +24.75  +82.64   +17.21 

 CDNX Index   +845.59 +41.48 +546.61   +23.38 

 U.S. STOCKS: 

 Net     %   52W      52W 

 Index        Close     chg     chg      high     low 

 DJIA          10664.38 -234.34    -2.15 11750.28 9654.64 

 S&P 500        1351.46  -25.08    -1.82  1552.87 1294.90 

 NYSE Comp.      645.72   -7.55    -1.16   681.19  575.01 

 Nasdaq Comp.   2796.50  -93.30    -3.23  5132.52 2523.04 

 --Yr over yr--    --Yr to  date-- 

 Index        net chg   % chg   net chg  % chg 

 DJIA           -560.63   -4.99  -832.74    -7.24 

 S&P 500         -71.88   -5.05  -117.80    -8.02 

 NYSE Comp.       +4.06   +0.63    -4.58    -0.70 

 Nasdaq Comp.   -749.51  -21.14 -1272.83   -31.28 

 FINANCIAL POST INDEXES: 

 Net   %     52W     52W 

 Index        Close     chg    chg     high    low 

 FPX Growth     1845.14 -11.16   -0.60  2054.20     1689.59 

 FPX Balanced   1744.80  -5.96   -0.34  1873.58     1594.05 

 FPX Income     1656.79  -1.67   -0.10  1740.75     1470.00 

 --Yr over yr--   --Yr to date-- 

 Index        net chg   % chg  net chg % chg 

 FPX Growth     +147.80  +8.71  +84.36   +4.79 

 FPX Balanced   +145.45  +9.09 +103.56   +6.31 

 FPX Income     +181.30 +12.29 +153.06  +10.18 

 Chart/Graph: Bloomberg News / TSE 300 & DJIA: TSE 300, DJIA: Intraday from Dec. 5 close (ET): (See print copy, pg. D2 for complete chart/graph), Chart/Graph: CANADIAN STOCKS: TSE 300 close: (See print copy, pg. D1, for complete chart/graph.), Chart/Graph: CANADIAN STOCKS: TSE volume: weekly, millions of shares: (See print copy, pg. D1, for complete chart/graph.), Chart/Graph: CANADIAN STOCKS: Last week, this week: (See print copy, pg. D1, for complete chart/graph.), Chart/Graph: CANADIAN STOCKS: daily, millions of shares: (See print copy, pg. D1, for complete chart/graph.), Table: CANADIAN STOCKS: Index, Close, Net chg., % chg., 52W high, 52W low, Year over year net chg., Year over year % chg., Year to date net chg., Year to date % chg.: (Table ran on pg. D1): (Online), Chart/Graph: U.S. STOCKS: DJ Industrial Average close: (See print copy, pg. D1, for complete graph.), Chart/Graph: U.S. STOCKS: NYSE volume: weekly, millions of shares: (See print copy, pg. D1, for complete graph.), Chart/Graph: U.S. STOCKS: Last week, this week: (See print copy, pg. D1, for complete graph.), Chart/Graph: U.S. STOCKS: daily, millions of shares: (See print copy, pg. D1, for complete graph.), Table: U.S. STOCKS: Index, Close, Net chg., % chg., 52W high, 52W low, Year over year net chg., Year over year % chg., Year to date net chg., Year to date % chg.: (Table ran on pg. D1) (Online), Chart/Graph: FINANCIAL POST INDEXES: Balanced: (See print copy, pg. D1, for complete graph.), Chart/Graph: FINANCIAL POST INDEXES: Last week, this week: (See print copy, pg. D1, for complete graph.), Table: FINANCIAL POST INDEXES: Index, close, Net chg., % chg., 52W high, 52W low, Year over year net chg., Year over year % chg., Year to date net chg., Year to date % chg.: (Table ran on pg. D1): (Online) 

Document finp000020010806dwc700wsa
?
 

 City - The Market - Wall Street blight on shares' flying start. 

 By Gary Parkinson. 
727 words
7 December 2000
The Daily Telegraph
DT
36
English
(c) 2000 Telegraph Group Limited, London

 AFTER promising so much on Tuesday, London's equity market once again failed to deliver the big gains traders badly wanted. 

 The FTSE 100 got off to a flying start, rising nearly 67 points at its best, as London's bulls piled indiscriminately into technology and telecoms stocks. However, a disappointing opening on Wall Street and heavy losses among defensive stocks in London saw the leading index end 25.7 points down at 6,273.3. Business was good, with more than 2.2 billion shares changing hands. 

 Oil stocks slipped following a fall in the price of crude, while tobacco groups, retailers, utilities, drugs companies, and financials were all marked lower as investors continued to switch into technology issues. 

 Among the hardest hit, International Power fell 16 1/2 to 236 1/2 p, while Imperial Tobacco lost 45 to 697p, after the Government unveiled plans to ban tobacco advertising. 

 Diageo, the drinks group, ended 53 lower at 662p, on the day it unveiled an agreement with France's Pernod-Ricard about bidding in the forthcoming auction for Seagrams' spirits business. Merrill Lynch was said to be a big seller of the shares it had picked up for 549p. 

 Dixons, the electrical retailer, lost 16 to 235p on disappointment at the all-share offer it accepted for its internet service provider Freeserve (8 1/4 lower at 133p) from French ISP Wanadoo. 

 Meanwhile, the FTSE Techmark 100 ended 113 points higher at 2831.35, despite rumours that figures due after London closed from IBM, the American PC bellwether, would fail to meet profits estimates. 

 The internet security group Baltimore Technologies shrugged off relegation from the FTSE 100 to improve 24 to 414p. Buyers were in good supply for another relegated technology company. Bookham Technology, the fibre-optic component maker, leaped 230p to #13. Bookham was among the companies to speak at a technology conference in London organised by Sachs Associates for analysts and the press. 

 Other speakers to post strong gains included the Israeli telecoms switch maker BATM Advanced Communications and Geo Interactive Media, the internet software group. BATM added 16 1/2 to 307 1/2 p, while Geo advanced 67 1/2 to 707 1/2 p. 

 The appetite for growth stocks saw Spirent, the telecoms equipment tester, improve 53 to 623p. The group reiterated its confidence in a strong performance in the second half of the year and beyond. Spirent also made bullish presentations. 

 A bullish note from Lehman Brothers lifted Vodafone Group 11 1/2 to 268p. Lehmans reiterated its buy rating saying the telecoms giant was the best-positioned global mobile-phone operator. 

 The story was much the same in the FTSE 250, which ended 32.8 points up at 6534.7. Surfcontrol, the internet and e-mail filtering company, added 50p to #10.87 1/2 after it said strong demand in the first quarter had continued throughout the second. 

 Among the "old economy" companies to improve, British Vita, the speciality chemicals group, was chased 17 higher to 173 1/2 p by news of corporate action in the sector. Elementis confirmed rumours of a buyout that had been doing the rounds for a couple of weeks. The shares jumped 23 to 101p. Traders were also watching Sopheon, which edged down 1 to 199p. The software group issued a profit warning on Friday. 

 World Travel Holdings edged up 5 to 46 1/2 p after the internet travel specialist agreed to buy the website and access the database of Xilerate's consumer travel site, uTravel. Xilerate is the new media division of United News & Media, which added 20 to 875p. 

 Clipserver.com, the news index service, tumbled 17 1/2 to 46 1/2 p on a profit warning. 

 Mission Testing debuted on the junior Alternative Investment Market. Placed at 220p by Investec, the shares ended 13 1/2 higher at 233 1/2 p. 

 ADVANCED Technology, the Aim-listed maker of equipment to read gas, electricity and water meters remotely, edged 3 1/2 higher to 136p. Whispers around dealing desks suggested that it is set to unveil a major foreign contract within a week. Traders pointed out that Ramar Technologies, the American rival the company bought this year, has a strong presence in Turkey. 

Document dt00000020010806dwc700735
?
 

 Headlines From International Herald Tribune Thursday 

413 words
7 December 2000
00:06
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


              Front Page



Untangling The Deadly 'Mad Cow' Mystery


 Gore Still Hopeful In Florida Contest (Advisers Are 'Very Optimistic' On Getting More Votes Counted) 

 American Gets 20 Years After Moscow Spy Trial 

 Curtain Rising On Estrada's Impeachment Trial 

 Turkey To Get $7.5B In Emergency IMF Aid 


              Front Business Page



BA Targets Gatwick To Slash Costs



Apple Shares Plunge On Forecast For Loss



Warning Signs For US Central Bank



               Front Page



JR East, West, Tokai To Be Wholly Privatized



LDP Tax Panel Eyes Doubling Tax Breaks For Gifts to Y1.2M Yearly Per
Person



Democratic Party Of Japan To Propose Raising Consumption Tax To 7-8%
As Part of Pension Reform



New FRC Head Says Government May Forgive Part Of Debt Assumed By
Deposit Insurance Corp. From Banks That Were Previously Placed Under
State Control



   FRONT PAGE:
   Signs Of US Slowdown Shown In Fed Survey
   US Regulators Unveil Changed M&A Accounting Proposals
   Florida Hearings May Mark End Of Presidential Battle
   BUSINESS FRONT:
   Mobile Operators Hit Loan Trouble
   Shake-Up In French Nuclear Market Welcomed
   Crude Oil Prices Fall Further As Iraq Is Poised To Export
   Ericsson Deal Nets $1.5bn
   Slowdown In Adverts Hits Dow's Earnings



0130GMT



                     FRONT PAGE:
-With Court Set To Hear Appeal, Legislators Move On Electors
-Split Within His Own Party Might Complicate Life Of A President Bush
-U.S. Bussinesman Found Guilty Of Espionage By Russian Court
-Hot Economy Cooling Down? Not New York's
-In Ruined Liberia, Its Despoiler Sits Pretty
-Ease Up, Top Universities Tell Stressed Applicants
-Documents On Design Of Explorer Reveal Series Of Compromises
                 FIRST BUSINESS PAGE:
-Profit Warning By Bank Of America Sets Off Big Retreat
-U.S. Looking At SmithKline Effort To Block Generic Drug
-U.S. Warns 50% Rise In Heat Costs
-NBC Faces Prospect Of Losing `Frasier'
-Market Place: USA Networks May Sell Stations



0511GMT



                   FRONT PAGE:
-Giant Pandas Arrive Rested And Relaxed
-Russians Convict American  As Spy
-Analysis: Bush Shifts Gears After Sauls Ruling
-Glendening Plans Fund For Transit
-'Superman' Meets Shining Path: Story Of A CIA Success
-Pentagon Rebukes Army Corps Of Engineers
-Florida Legislature To Hold Session On Electors
                  FIRST BUSINESS PAGE:
-Tire Death Toll At 148, Including 4 Since Recall
-What People Say About AOL 6, Uh-Oh
-High-Tech Firms Win Fight Over Accounting Rule
-U.S. Hard Landing Could Hurt Recovery In Asia
-Area Leads Nation In Construction
-Profit News Snuffs Out Stock Surge



0530GMT


1088

Document dji0000020010805dwc705t7y
?
 

 MARKET TALK: A Grinch Wendy's Wasn't Counting On 

1,162 words
7 December 2000
21:14
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



4:13 (Dow Jones) Despite easy comparisons and a kids' meal promotion
tied to "The Grinch" hit movie, Wendy's International (WEN) November
sales were "somewhat disappointing," says J.P. Morgan's John Ivankoe.
While company stores had a 3.4% gain, the number was below expectations.
Concerned about flattening traffic at fast-food restaurants, he would
"trade around this and recent strength of Wendy's stock and prefer to
buy at lower levels." (RLG)



4:05 (Dow Jones) Shares of Anheuser-Busch (BUD) pushed higher as
investors headed for consumer staple stocks and out of some high-flying
technology stocks. Other consumer stocks that were up include Coca-Cola
Co. (KO), Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. (CCE), PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) and
Adolph Coors Co. (RKY). (DJH)



4:03 (Dow Jones) Stocks close lower, but session was timid in front of
Friday's key data and possible election ruling. Actually, for all the
bad news Thursday, in the form of lower EPS estimates, the market held
up pretty well. Techs mostly soft, and internals not too good, but
decent employment number - i.e. more people out of work - could give us
a boost. Stocks are definitely starting to digest bad news a little
better, a good sign. We just don't need anymore of that news. DJIA off
45 to 10617, Nasdaq falls 44 at 2752, and S&P 500 loses 7 to 1344
(preliminary). (TG)



3:55 (Dow Jones) President Clinton, discussing post-White House plans
in interview with Rolling Stone magazine, says "the challenge is to
trade power and authority broadly spread for influence and impact
tightly concentrated." (JC)



3:40 (Dow Jones) Despite slight recovery in stock futures, the light
volume and trading pattern in late afternoon is not lending stability,
floor traders say. "The market is feeling kind of weak," says one.
Volume on the outright March Nasdaq and S&Ps was particularly weak.
(ZHS)



3:38 (Dow Jones) Rep. Ron Paul voices agreement with those who say a
recession is on the way, and says the Fed is "the real cause of the
business cycle," bringing booms that inevitably lead to busts. (JC)



3:28 (Dow Jones) Merrill economist Hartnett revises down U.S. growth
to 3.3% in 2001 from previous 3.7% because of weaker outlook for capital
spending, especially telecom equipment. Given weaker growth outlook,
Merrill Lynch expects Fed to cut rates 25 bp at March 2001 FOMC meeting
and ease again by 25 bp in June. (JNP)



3:25 (Dow Jones) Former Treasury spokesman Howard Schloss appointed
senior VP of communications and government relations for NASD and its
subsidiaries. (JC)



3:14 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch international economist Michael
Hartnett downgrades OECD countries 2001 global growth outlook to 2.6%
from 2.9%. U.S. downgraded to 3.3% from 3.7%. Euroland growth revised
down to 2.8% from 2.9% (JNP)



3:07 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps sink to new lows and dip into the gap area
from earlier this week, taking out support at 1362.50. Next support area
not until gap is closed, at 1355.50, which would wipe out all gains seen
on Tuesday, trader says. (DMC)



2:54 (Dow Jones) Signs of a slowdown in the U.S. economy prompted
Credit First Boston analyst Gibboney Huske to cut her 2001 earnings
estimates for the stocks in her imaging sector. She lowered her view on
Lexmark International (LXK) to $2.60 a share from $2.65; Eastman Kodak
(EK)to $5.10 from $5.40; Pitney Bowes (PBI) to $2.60 from $2.65; and
Polarois (PRD) to $1.40 from $1.60. (DDO)



2:49 (Dow Jones) Cutting its deal price to sell helped Harvard
Bioscience's (HBIO) stock. After pricing an IPO of 6.4 million shares at
$8 - well below original price talk of $11 to $13 a share - the stock is
now trading at $11, for a 37.5% gain. (RJH)



2:44 (Dow Jones) Stocks pulling back a bit, with tech names building
on earlier weakness. Given MOT, MSFT, and NSM developments, not a lot of
impetus to dive in. Short-term players may be nervous about payroll
numbers tomorrow, or possibility of more after-the-close warnings, and
shorts likely don't want to get squeezed by a Fla. court ruling that
could basically end the election fiasco. DJIA off 55 at 10609, Nasdaq
drops 71 to 2726, and S&P 500 loses 10 to 1341. (TG)



2:30 (Dow Jones) A.G. Edwards downgraded Bank of America (BAC), but
believes dividend is secure and that credit quality issues are largely
priced into the shares. Price could be limited near term, though, until
trends begin to improve. Price target now $51, a 10 multiple on next
year's earnings, a below-average valuation assumption. (TG)



2:18 (Dow Jones) Motorola's (MOT) profit warning is not a reflection
of weak global handset demand, noted Merrill Lynch analyst Michael
Ching. "The company did indicate that demand for handsets looks
relatively robust," Ching said. "They haven't changed their global
forecast for handsets for this year or next." Ching said the
announcement was a sign of a problem with execution at Motorola. He cut
his intermediate term rating from buy to accumulate, saying a lower
rating was not warranted given Motorola's low valuation. (JDB)



2:08 (Dow Jones) Health-care investors might want to take note of some
recent comments by Sen.-Elect Hillary Clinton. Clinton, who was sharply
criticized by health-care providers and HMOs in her first attempt to
reform the U.S. system, said Thursday in an Associated Press interview
that the matter is "still one of my priority concerns." There's one
important change in her position, though: This time, she tells AP, any
reform will be done "in a step-by-step way." (RJH)



2:04 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps inch to new session lows, with locals
dominating trade. Weakness in Nasdaq and DJIA also lends pressure,
traders say. "What we're seeing is a continuation of the weakness. The
fundamentals are still bad, nothing has changed," one trader says.
Another says reason not selling of harder is that shorts don't want to
get caught in pro-Bush ruling. (DMC)



1:54 (Dow Jones) Ventro Corp.'s (VNTR) stock is off 17% after the
company announced it's closing two of its online marketplaces, including
its original business. Ventro said the closing of the two unprofitable
marketplaces -- Chemdex and Promedix -- would result in the laying off
of almost half its employees. Ventro began life as Chemdex, an
electronic marketplace for chemicals and other life-sciences supplies,
and later it expanded into other vertical markets. (RS)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc704o19
?
 

 MARKET TALK: He Shouldn't Have Trouble Finding Work 

925 words
7 December 2000
20:55
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



3:55 (Dow Jones) President Clinton, discussing post-White House plans
in interview with Rolling Stone magazine, says "the challenge is to
trade power and authority broadly spread for influence and impact
tightly concentrated." (JC)



3:40 (Dow Jones) Despite slight recovery in stock futures, the light
volume and trading pattern in late afternoon is not lending stability,
floor traders say. "The market is feeling kind of weak," says one.
Volume on the outright March Nasdaq and S&Ps was particularly weak.
(ZHS)



3:38 (Dow Jones) Rep. Ron Paul voices agreement with those who say a
recession is on the way, and says the Fed is "the real cause of the
business cycle," bringing booms that inevitably lead to busts. (JC)



3:28 (Dow Jones) Merrill economist Hartnett revises down U.S. growth
to 3.3% in 2001 from previous 3.7% because of weaker outlook for capital
spending, especially telecom equipment. Given weaker growth outlook,
Merrill Lynch expects Fed to cut rates 25 bp at March 2001 FOMC meeting
and ease again by 25 bp in June. (JNP)



3:25 (Dow Jones) Former Treasury spokesman Howard Schloss appointed
senior VP of communications and government relations for NASD and its
subsidiaries. (JC)



3:14 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch international economist Michael
Hartnett downgrades OECD countries 2001 global growth outlook to 2.6%
from 2.9%. U.S. downgraded to 3.3% from 3.7%. Euroland growth revised
down to 2.8% from 2.9% (JNP)



3:07 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps sink to new lows and dip into the gap area
from earlier this week, taking out support at 1362.50. Next support area
not until gap is closed, at 1355.50, which would wipe out all gains seen
on Tuesday, trader says. (DMC)



2:54 (Dow Jones) Signs of a slowdown in the U.S. economy prompted
Credit First Boston analyst Gibboney Huske to cut her 2001 earnings
estimates for the stocks in her imaging sector. She lowered her view on
Lexmark International (LXK) to $2.60 a share from $2.65; Eastman Kodak
(EK)to $5.10 from $5.40; Pitney Bowes (PBI) to $2.60 from $2.65; and
Polarois (PRD) to $1.40 from $1.60. (DDO)



2:49 (Dow Jones) Cutting its deal price to sell helped Harvard
Bioscience's (HBIO) stock. After pricing an IPO of 6.4 million shares at
$8 - well below original price talk of $11 to $13 a share - the stock is
now trading at $11, for a 37.5% gain. (RJH)



2:44 (Dow Jones) Stocks pulling back a bit, with tech names building
on earlier weakness. Given MOT, MSFT, and NSM developments, not a lot of
impetus to dive in. Short-term players may be nervous about payroll
numbers tomorrow, or possibility of more after-the-close warnings, and
shorts likely don't want to get squeezed by a Fla. court ruling that
could basically end the election fiasco. DJIA off 55 at 10609, Nasdaq
drops 71 to 2726, and S&P 500 loses 10 to 1341. (TG)



2:30 (Dow Jones) A.G. Edwards downgraded Bank of America (BAC), but
believes dividend is secure and that credit quality issues are largely
priced into the shares. Price could be limited near term, though, until
trends begin to improve. Price target now $51, a 10 multiple on next
year's earnings, a below-average valuation assumption. (TG)



2:18 (Dow Jones) Motorola's (MOT) profit warning is not a reflection
of weak global handset demand, noted Merrill Lynch analyst Michael
Ching. "The company did indicate that demand for handsets looks
relatively robust," Ching said. "They haven't changed their global
forecast for handsets for this year or next." Ching said the
announcement was a sign of a problem with execution at Motorola. He cut
his intermediate term rating from buy to accumulate, saying a lower
rating was not warranted given Motorola's low valuation. (JDB)



2:08 (Dow Jones) Health-care investors might want to take note of some
recent comments by Sen.-Elect Hillary Clinton. Clinton, who was sharply
criticized by health-care providers and HMOs in her first attempt to
reform the U.S. system, said Thursday in an Associated Press interview
that the matter is "still one of my priority concerns." There's one
important change in her position, though: This time, she tells AP, any
reform will be done "in a step-by-step way." (RJH)



2:04 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps inch to new session lows, with locals
dominating trade. Weakness in Nasdaq and DJIA also lends pressure,
traders say. "What we're seeing is a continuation of the weakness. The
fundamentals are still bad, nothing has changed," one trader says.
Another says reason not selling of harder is that shorts don't want to
get caught in pro-Bush ruling. (DMC)



1:54 (Dow Jones) Ventro Corp.'s (VNTR) stock is off 17% after the
company announced it's closing two of its online marketplaces, including
its original business. Ventro said the closing of the two unprofitable
marketplaces -- Chemdex and Promedix -- would result in the laying off
of almost half its employees. Ventro began life as Chemdex, an
electronic marketplace for chemicals and other life-sciences supplies,
and later it expanded into other vertical markets. (RS)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc704nzq
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Stock Futures Bounce, But 'Feel Weak' 

1,351 words
7 December 2000
20:40
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



3:40 (Dow Jones) Despite slight recovery in stock futures, the light
volume and trading pattern in late afternoon is not lending stability,
floor traders say. "The market is feeling kind of weak," says one.
Volume on the outright March Nasdaq and S&Ps was particularly weak.
(ZHS)



3:38 (Dow Jones) Rep. Ron Paul voices agreement with those who say a
recession is on the way, and says the Fed is "the real cause of the
business cycle," bringing booms that inevitably lead to busts. (JC)



3:28 (Dow Jones) Merrill economist Hartnett revises down U.S. growth
to 3.3% in 2001 from previous 3.7% because of weaker outlook for capital
spending, especially telecom equipment. Given weaker growth outlook,
Merrill Lynch expects Fed to cut rates 25 bp at March 2001 FOMC meeting
and ease again by 25 bp in June. (JNP)



3:25 (Dow Jones) Former Treasury spokesman Howard Schloss appointed
senior VP of communications and government relations for NASD and its
subsidiaries. (JC)



3:14 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch international economist Michael
Hartnett downgrades OECD countries 2001 global growth outlook to 2.6%
from 2.9%. U.S. downgraded to 3.3% from 3.7%. Euroland growth revised
down to 2.8% from 2.9% (JNP)



3:07 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps sink to new lows and dip into the gap area
from earlier this week, taking out support at 1362.50. Next support area
not until gap is closed, at 1355.50, which would wipe out all gains seen
on Tuesday, trader says. (DMC)



2:54 (Dow Jones) Signs of a slowdown in the U.S. economy prompted
Credit First Boston analyst Gibboney Huske to cut her 2001 earnings
estimates for the stocks in her imaging sector. She lowered her view on
Lexmark International (LXK) to $2.60 a share from $2.65; Eastman Kodak
(EK)to $5.10 from $5.40; Pitney Bowes (PBI) to $2.60 from $2.65; and
Polarois (PRD) to $1.40 from $1.60. (DDO)



2:49 (Dow Jones) Cutting its deal price to sell helped Harvard
Bioscience's (HBIO) stock. After pricing an IPO of 6.4 million shares at
$8 - well below original price talk of $11 to $13 a share - the stock is
now trading at $11, for a 37.5% gain. (RJH)



2:44 (Dow Jones) Stocks pulling back a bit, with tech names building
on earlier weakness. Given MOT, MSFT, and NSM developments, not a lot of
impetus to dive in. Short-term players may be nervous about payroll
numbers tomorrow, or possibility of more after-the-close warnings, and
shorts likely don't want to get squeezed by a Fla. court ruling that
could basically end the election fiasco. DJIA off 55 at 10609, Nasdaq
drops 71 to 2726, and S&P 500 loses 10 to 1341. (TG)



2:30 (Dow Jones) A.G. Edwards downgraded Bank of America (BAC), but
believes dividend is secure and that credit quality issues are largely
priced into the shares. Price could be limited near term, though, until
trends begin to improve. Price target now $51, a 10 multiple on next
year's earnings, a below-average valuation assumption. (TG)



2:18 (Dow Jones) Motorola's (MOT) profit warning is not a reflection
of weak global handset demand, noted Merrill Lynch analyst Michael
Ching. "The company did indicate that demand for handsets looks
relatively robust," Ching said. "They haven't changed their global
forecast for handsets for this year or next." Ching said the
announcement was a sign of a problem with execution at Motorola. He cut
his intermediate term rating from buy to accumulate, saying a lower
rating was not warranted given Motorola's low valuation. (JDB)



2:08 (Dow Jones) Health-care investors might want to take note of some
recent comments by Sen.-Elect Hillary Clinton. Clinton, who was sharply
criticized by health-care providers and HMOs in her first attempt to
reform the U.S. system, said Thursday in an Associated Press interview
that the matter is "still one of my priority concerns." There's one
important change in her position, though: This time, she tells AP, any
reform will be done "in a step-by-step way." (RJH)



2:04 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps inch to new session lows, with locals
dominating trade. Weakness in Nasdaq and DJIA also lends pressure,
traders say. "What we're seeing is a continuation of the weakness. The
fundamentals are still bad, nothing has changed," one trader says.
Another says reason not selling of harder is that shorts don't want to
get caught in pro-Bush ruling. (DMC)



1:54 (Dow Jones) Ventro Corp.'s (VNTR) stock is off 17% after the
company announced it's closing two of its online marketplaces, including
its original business. Ventro said the closing of the two unprofitable
marketplaces -- Chemdex and Promedix -- would result in the laying off
of almost half its employees. Ventro began life as Chemdex, an
electronic marketplace for chemicals and other life-sciences supplies,
and later it expanded into other vertical markets. (RS)



1:48 (Dow Jones) Every morning we jump out of bed to get a look at
fair value, trying to get a feel for how the market looks. But do you
know how it's  calculated? Now you do, courtesy of Schaeffer's
Investment Research: Cash{1+R(X/365)} - Dividend - Cash. Cash is the
actual close of the index, R is the current interest rate (typically
3-month T-bill), X represents time left until the current futures
contract expires, and the dividend is calculated by converitng the yield
on the index into points (index value x yield) x (days til
expiration/365). Not too difficult if you have all the data. (TG)



1:36 (Dow Jones) According to Weds. open interest data, S&P 500 open
interest was 501731, breaking Tuesday record of 496339. E-mini S&Ps open
interest was 80954, vs. the open interest record of 79360 set on
Tuesday. (DMC)



1:28 (Dow Jones) In post-election letter to members, CBOT's Brennan
says major initiatives such as the exchange's search for a CEO and
release of the S-4 will be put on hold for Nickolas Neubauer's review
when he assumes position of CBOT chairman next month. (CMN)



1:19 (Dow Jones) State Street (STT) is a relatively small player in
the business of catering to wealthy individuals, but its acquisition of
a tiny Los Angeles firm may indicate that it has bigger ambitions in
this fast-growing area of asset management. (AMB)



1:01 (Dow Jones) If you didn't think you had a big enough selection of
women's underthings, Victoria's Secret's new 18,000 square-foot store at
67th & Broadway in Manhattan may be the place to go. Sales at the
two-level store, which opened in late November, could reach $15 million
in its first year, according to the Intimate Brands (IBI) unit. It's
stocked with 60,000 bras, and more than 100,000 panties among other
items. Excluding beauty and hosiery products, the location has 10 times
as much merhcandise as an average Victoria's Secret store. (PAP)



12:51 (Dow Jones) Natural gas locals were seen openly haranguing Nymex
board and committee members touring the pits mid-morning Thursday during
a suspension of trading, traders say. "They're not happy - they're
losing money," says one. Pit participants are concerned that ACCESS
trading on low volume has artificially run the price of natural gas up.
Locals, he says, want Nymex to set $1.50 up- and down-limits and stay
with them. (JEE)



12:48 (Dow Jones) The dollar rose for the fifth consecutive month in
November on a trade-weighted basis against other major currencies,
according to the Atlanta Fed.


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc704nz7
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Surely Mr. Greenspan Appreciates Your Advice 

1,302 words
7 December 2000
20:38
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



3:38 (Dow Jones) Rep. Ron Paul voices agreement with those who say a
recession is on the way, and says the Fed is "the real cause of the
business cycle," bringing booms that inevitably lead to busts. (JC)



3:28 (Dow Jones) Merrill economist Hartnett revises down U.S. growth
to 3.3% in 2001 from previous 3.7% because of weaker outlook for capital
spending, especially telecom equipment. Given weaker growth outlook,
Merrill Lynch expects Fed to cut rates 25 bp at March 2001 FOMC meeting
and ease again by 25 bp in June. (JNP)



3:25 (Dow Jones) Former Treasury spokesman Howard Schloss appointed
senior VP of communications and government relations for NASD and its
subsidiaries. (JC)



3:14 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch international economist Michael
Hartnett downgrades OECD countries 2001 global growth outlook to 2.6%
from 2.9%. U.S. downgraded to 3.3% from 3.7%. Euroland growth revised
down to 2.8% from 2.9% (JNP)



3:07 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps sink to new lows and dip into the gap area
from earlier this week, taking out support at 1362.50. Next support area
not until gap is closed, at 1355.50, which would wipe out all gains seen
on Tuesday, trader says. (DMC)



2:54 (Dow Jones) Signs of a slowdown in the U.S. economy prompted
Credit First Boston analyst Gibboney Huske to cut her 2001 earnings
estimates for the stocks in her imaging sector. She lowered her view on
Lexmark International (LXK) to $2.60 a share from $2.65; Eastman Kodak
(EK)to $5.10 from $5.40; Pitney Bowes (PBI) to $2.60 from $2.65; and
Polarois (PRD) to $1.40 from $1.60. (DDO)



2:49 (Dow Jones) Cutting its deal price to sell helped Harvard
Bioscience's (HBIO) stock. After pricing an IPO of 6.4 million shares at
$8 - well below original price talk of $11 to $13 a share - the stock is
now trading at $11, for a 37.5% gain. (RJH)



2:44 (Dow Jones) Stocks pulling back a bit, with tech names building
on earlier weakness. Given MOT, MSFT, and NSM developments, not a lot of
impetus to dive in. Short-term players may be nervous about payroll
numbers tomorrow, or possibility of more after-the-close warnings, and
shorts likely don't want to get squeezed by a Fla. court ruling that
could basically end the election fiasco. DJIA off 55 at 10609, Nasdaq
drops 71 to 2726, and S&P 500 loses 10 to 1341. (TG)



2:30 (Dow Jones) A.G. Edwards downgraded Bank of America (BAC), but
believes dividend is secure and that credit quality issues are largely
priced into the shares. Price could be limited near term, though, until
trends begin to improve. Price target now $51, a 10 multiple on next
year's earnings, a below-average valuation assumption. (TG)



2:18 (Dow Jones) Motorola's (MOT) profit warning is not a reflection
of weak global handset demand, noted Merrill Lynch analyst Michael
Ching. "The company did indicate that demand for handsets looks
relatively robust," Ching said. "They haven't changed their global
forecast for handsets for this year or next." Ching said the
announcement was a sign of a problem with execution at Motorola. He cut
his intermediate term rating from buy to accumulate, saying a lower
rating was not warranted given Motorola's low valuation. (JDB)



2:08 (Dow Jones) Health-care investors might want to take note of some
recent comments by Sen.-Elect Hillary Clinton. Clinton, who was sharply
criticized by health-care providers and HMOs in her first attempt to
reform the U.S. system, said Thursday in an Associated Press interview
that the matter is "still one of my priority concerns." There's one
important change in her position, though: This time, she tells AP, any
reform will be done "in a step-by-step way." (RJH)



2:04 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps inch to new session lows, with locals
dominating trade. Weakness in Nasdaq and DJIA also lends pressure,
traders say. "What we're seeing is a continuation of the weakness. The
fundamentals are still bad, nothing has changed," one trader says.
Another says reason not selling of harder is that shorts don't want to
get caught in pro-Bush ruling. (DMC)



1:54 (Dow Jones) Ventro Corp.'s (VNTR) stock is off 17% after the
company announced it's closing two of its online marketplaces, including
its original business. Ventro said the closing of the two unprofitable
marketplaces -- Chemdex and Promedix -- would result in the laying off
of almost half its employees. Ventro began life as Chemdex, an
electronic marketplace for chemicals and other life-sciences supplies,
and later it expanded into other vertical markets. (RS)



1:48 (Dow Jones) Every morning we jump out of bed to get a look at
fair value, trying to get a feel for how the market looks. But do you
know how it's  calculated? Now you do, courtesy of Schaeffer's
Investment Research: Cash{1+R(X/365)} - Dividend - Cash. Cash is the
actual close of the index, R is the current interest rate (typically
3-month T-bill), X represents time left until the current futures
contract expires, and the dividend is calculated by converitng the yield
on the index into points (index value x yield) x (days til
expiration/365). Not too difficult if you have all the data. (TG)



1:36 (Dow Jones) According to Weds. open interest data, S&P 500 open
interest was 501731, breaking Tuesday record of 496339. E-mini S&Ps open
interest was 80954, vs. the open interest record of 79360 set on
Tuesday. (DMC)



1:28 (Dow Jones) In post-election letter to members, CBOT's Brennan
says major initiatives such as the exchange's search for a CEO and
release of the S-4 will be put on hold for Nickolas Neubauer's review
when he assumes position of CBOT chairman next month. (CMN)



1:19 (Dow Jones) State Street (STT) is a relatively small player in
the business of catering to wealthy individuals, but its acquisition of
a tiny Los Angeles firm may indicate that it has bigger ambitions in
this fast-growing area of asset management. (AMB)



1:01 (Dow Jones) If you didn't think you had a big enough selection of
women's underthings, Victoria's Secret's new 18,000 square-foot store at
67th & Broadway in Manhattan may be the place to go. Sales at the
two-level store, which opened in late November, could reach $15 million
in its first year, according to the Intimate Brands (IBI) unit. It's
stocked with 60,000 bras, and more than 100,000 panties among other
items. Excluding beauty and hosiery products, the location has 10 times
as much merhcandise as an average Victoria's Secret store. (PAP)



12:51 (Dow Jones) Natural gas locals were seen openly haranguing Nymex
board and committee members touring the pits mid-morning Thursday during
a suspension of trading, traders say. "They're not happy - they're
losing money," says one. Pit participants are concerned that ACCESS
trading on low volume has artificially run the price of natural gas up.
Locals, he says, want Nymex to set $1.50 up- and down-limits and stay
with them. (JEE)



12:48 (Dow Jones) The dollar rose for the fifth consecutive month in
November on a trade-weighted basis against other major currencies,
according to the Atlanta Fed.


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc704nyo
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Merrill Economist Sees 50 BP Cut By June 

1,265 words
7 December 2000
20:29
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



3:28 (Dow Jones) Merrill economist Hartnett revises down U.S. growth
to 3.3% in 2001 from previous 3.7% because of weaker outlook for capital
spending, especially telecom equipment. Given weaker growth outlook,
Merrill Lynch expects Fed to cut rates 25 bp at March 2001 FOMC meeting
and ease again by 25 bp in June. (JNP)



3:25 (Dow Jones) Former Treasury spokesman Howard Schloss appointed
senior VP of communications and government relations for NASD and its
subsidiaries. (JC)



3:14 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch international economist Michael
Hartnett downgrades OECD countries 2001 global growth outlook to 2.6%
from 2.9%. U.S. downgraded to 3.3% from 3.7%. Euroland growth revised
down to 2.8% from 2.9% (JNP)



3:07 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps sink to new lows and dip into the gap area
from earlier this week, taking out support at 1362.50. Next support area
not until gap is closed, at 1355.50, which would wipe out all gains seen
on Tuesday, trader says. (DMC)



2:54 (Dow Jones) Signs of a slowdown in the U.S. economy prompted
Credit First Boston analyst Gibboney Huske to cut her 2001 earnings
estimates for the stocks in her imaging sector. She lowered her view on
Lexmark International (LXK) to $2.60 a share from $2.65; Eastman Kodak
(EK)to $5.10 from $5.40; Pitney Bowes (PBI) to $2.60 from $2.65; and
Polarois (PRD) to $1.40 from $1.60. (DDO)



2:49 (Dow Jones) Cutting its deal price to sell helped Harvard
Bioscience's (HBIO) stock. After pricing an IPO of 6.4 million shares at
$8 - well below original price talk of $11 to $13 a share - the stock is
now trading at $11, for a 37.5% gain. (RJH)



2:44 (Dow Jones) Stocks pulling back a bit, with tech names building
on earlier weakness. Given MOT, MSFT, and NSM developments, not a lot of
impetus to dive in. Short-term players may be nervous about payroll
numbers tomorrow, or possibility of more after-the-close warnings, and
shorts likely don't want to get squeezed by a Fla. court ruling that
could basically end the election fiasco. DJIA off 55 at 10609, Nasdaq
drops 71 to 2726, and S&P 500 loses 10 to 1341. (TG)



2:30 (Dow Jones) A.G. Edwards downgraded Bank of America (BAC), but
believes dividend is secure and that credit quality issues are largely
priced into the shares. Price could be limited near term, though, until
trends begin to improve. Price target now $51, a 10 multiple on next
year's earnings, a below-average valuation assumption. (TG)



2:18 (Dow Jones) Motorola's (MOT) profit warning is not a reflection
of weak global handset demand, noted Merrill Lynch analyst Michael
Ching. "The company did indicate that demand for handsets looks
relatively robust," Ching said. "They haven't changed their global
forecast for handsets for this year or next." Ching said the
announcement was a sign of a problem with execution at Motorola. He cut
his intermediate term rating from buy to accumulate, saying a lower
rating was not warranted given Motorola's low valuation. (JDB)



2:08 (Dow Jones) Health-care investors might want to take note of some
recent comments by Sen.-Elect Hillary Clinton. Clinton, who was sharply
criticized by health-care providers and HMOs in her first attempt to
reform the U.S. system, said Thursday in an Associated Press interview
that the matter is "still one of my priority concerns." There's one
important change in her position, though: This time, she tells AP, any
reform will be done "in a step-by-step way." (RJH)



2:04 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps inch to new session lows, with locals
dominating trade. Weakness in Nasdaq and DJIA also lends pressure,
traders say. "What we're seeing is a continuation of the weakness. The
fundamentals are still bad, nothing has changed," one trader says.
Another says reason not selling of harder is that shorts don't want to
get caught in pro-Bush ruling. (DMC)



1:54 (Dow Jones) Ventro Corp.'s (VNTR) stock is off 17% after the
company announced it's closing two of its online marketplaces, including
its original business. Ventro said the closing of the two unprofitable
marketplaces -- Chemdex and Promedix -- would result in the laying off
of almost half its employees. Ventro began life as Chemdex, an
electronic marketplace for chemicals and other life-sciences supplies,
and later it expanded into other vertical markets. (RS)



1:48 (Dow Jones) Every morning we jump out of bed to get a look at
fair value, trying to get a feel for how the market looks. But do you
know how it's  calculated? Now you do, courtesy of Schaeffer's
Investment Research: Cash{1+R(X/365)} - Dividend - Cash. Cash is the
actual close of the index, R is the current interest rate (typically
3-month T-bill), X represents time left until the current futures
contract expires, and the dividend is calculated by converitng the yield
on the index into points (index value x yield) x (days til
expiration/365). Not too difficult if you have all the data. (TG)



1:36 (Dow Jones) According to Weds. open interest data, S&P 500 open
interest was 501731, breaking Tuesday record of 496339. E-mini S&Ps open
interest was 80954, vs. the open interest record of 79360 set on
Tuesday. (DMC)



1:28 (Dow Jones) In post-election letter to members, CBOT's Brennan
says major initiatives such as the exchange's search for a CEO and
release of the S-4 will be put on hold for Nickolas Neubauer's review
when he assumes position of CBOT chairman next month. (CMN)



1:19 (Dow Jones) State Street (STT) is a relatively small player in
the business of catering to wealthy individuals, but its acquisition of
a tiny Los Angeles firm may indicate that it has bigger ambitions in
this fast-growing area of asset management. (AMB)



1:01 (Dow Jones) If you didn't think you had a big enough selection of
women's underthings, Victoria's Secret's new 18,000 square-foot store at
67th & Broadway in Manhattan may be the place to go. Sales at the
two-level store, which opened in late November, could reach $15 million
in its first year, according to the Intimate Brands (IBI) unit. It's
stocked with 60,000 bras, and more than 100,000 panties among other
items. Excluding beauty and hosiery products, the location has 10 times
as much merhcandise as an average Victoria's Secret store. (PAP)



12:51 (Dow Jones) Natural gas locals were seen openly haranguing Nymex
board and committee members touring the pits mid-morning Thursday during
a suspension of trading, traders say. "They're not happy - they're
losing money," says one. Pit participants are concerned that ACCESS
trading on low volume has artificially run the price of natural gas up.
Locals, he says, want Nymex to set $1.50 up- and down-limits and stay
with them. (JEE)



12:48 (Dow Jones) The dollar rose for the fifth consecutive month in
November on a trade-weighted basis against other major currencies,
according to the Atlanta Fed.


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc704nxj
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Ex-Tsy Spokesman Lands Gig At NASD 

1,206 words
7 December 2000
20:24
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



3:25 (Dow Jones) Former Treasury spokesman Howard Schloss appointed
senior VP of communications and government relations for NASD and its
subsidiaries. (JC)



3:14 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch international economist Michael
Hartnett downgrades OECD countries 2001 global growth outlook to 2.6%
from 2.9%. U.S. downgraded to 3.3% from 3.7%. Euroland growth revised
down to 2.8% from 2.9% (JNP)



3:07 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps sink to new lows and dip into the gap area
from earlier this week, taking out support at 1362.50. Next support area
not until gap is closed, at 1355.50, which would wipe out all gains seen
on Tuesday, trader says. (DMC)



2:54 (Dow Jones) Signs of a slowdown in the U.S. economy prompted
Credit First Boston analyst Gibboney Huske to cut her 2001 earnings
estimates for the stocks in her imaging sector. She lowered her view on
Lexmark International (LXK) to $2.60 a share from $2.65; Eastman Kodak
(EK)to $5.10 from $5.40; Pitney Bowes (PBI) to $2.60 from $2.65; and
Polarois (PRD) to $1.40 from $1.60. (DDO)



2:49 (Dow Jones) Cutting its deal price to sell helped Harvard
Bioscience's (HBIO) stock. After pricing an IPO of 6.4 million shares at
$8 - well below original price talk of $11 to $13 a share - the stock is
now trading at $11, for a 37.5% gain. (RJH)



2:44 (Dow Jones) Stocks pulling back a bit, with tech names building
on earlier weakness. Given MOT, MSFT, and NSM developments, not a lot of
impetus to dive in. Short-term players may be nervous about payroll
numbers tomorrow, or possibility of more after-the-close warnings, and
shorts likely don't want to get squeezed by a Fla. court ruling that
could basically end the election fiasco. DJIA off 55 at 10609, Nasdaq
drops 71 to 2726, and S&P 500 loses 10 to 1341. (TG)



2:30 (Dow Jones) A.G. Edwards downgraded Bank of America (BAC), but
believes dividend is secure and that credit quality issues are largely
priced into the shares. Price could be limited near term, though, until
trends begin to improve. Price target now $51, a 10 multiple on next
year's earnings, a below-average valuation assumption. (TG)



2:18 (Dow Jones) Motorola's (MOT) profit warning is not a reflection
of weak global handset demand, noted Merrill Lynch analyst Michael
Ching. "The company did indicate that demand for handsets looks
relatively robust," Ching said. "They haven't changed their global
forecast for handsets for this year or next." Ching said the
announcement was a sign of a problem with execution at Motorola. He cut
his intermediate term rating from buy to accumulate, saying a lower
rating was not warranted given Motorola's low valuation. (JDB)



2:08 (Dow Jones) Health-care investors might want to take note of some
recent comments by Sen.-Elect Hillary Clinton. Clinton, who was sharply
criticized by health-care providers and HMOs in her first attempt to
reform the U.S. system, said Thursday in an Associated Press interview
that the matter is "still one of my priority concerns." There's one
important change in her position, though: This time, she tells AP, any
reform will be done "in a step-by-step way." (RJH)



2:04 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps inch to new session lows, with locals
dominating trade. Weakness in Nasdaq and DJIA also lends pressure,
traders say. "What we're seeing is a continuation of the weakness. The
fundamentals are still bad, nothing has changed," one trader says.
Another says reason not selling of harder is that shorts don't want to
get caught in pro-Bush ruling. (DMC)



1:54 (Dow Jones) Ventro Corp.'s (VNTR) stock is off 17% after the
company announced it's closing two of its online marketplaces, including
its original business. Ventro said the closing of the two unprofitable
marketplaces -- Chemdex and Promedix -- would result in the laying off
of almost half its employees. Ventro began life as Chemdex, an
electronic marketplace for chemicals and other life-sciences supplies,
and later it expanded into other vertical markets. (RS)



1:48 (Dow Jones) Every morning we jump out of bed to get a look at
fair value, trying to get a feel for how the market looks. But do you
know how it's  calculated? Now you do, courtesy of Schaeffer's
Investment Research: Cash{1+R(X/365)} - Dividend - Cash. Cash is the
actual close of the index, R is the current interest rate (typically
3-month T-bill), X represents time left until the current futures
contract expires, and the dividend is calculated by converitng the yield
on the index into points (index value x yield) x (days til
expiration/365). Not too difficult if you have all the data. (TG)



1:36 (Dow Jones) According to Weds. open interest data, S&P 500 open
interest was 501731, breaking Tuesday record of 496339. E-mini S&Ps open
interest was 80954, vs. the open interest record of 79360 set on
Tuesday. (DMC)



1:28 (Dow Jones) In post-election letter to members, CBOT's Brennan
says major initiatives such as the exchange's search for a CEO and
release of the S-4 will be put on hold for Nickolas Neubauer's review
when he assumes position of CBOT chairman next month. (CMN)



1:19 (Dow Jones) State Street (STT) is a relatively small player in
the business of catering to wealthy individuals, but its acquisition of
a tiny Los Angeles firm may indicate that it has bigger ambitions in
this fast-growing area of asset management. (AMB)



1:01 (Dow Jones) If you didn't think you had a big enough selection of
women's underthings, Victoria's Secret's new 18,000 square-foot store at
67th & Broadway in Manhattan may be the place to go. Sales at the
two-level store, which opened in late November, could reach $15 million
in its first year, according to the Intimate Brands (IBI) unit. It's
stocked with 60,000 bras, and more than 100,000 panties among other
items. Excluding beauty and hosiery products, the location has 10 times
as much merhcandise as an average Victoria's Secret store. (PAP)



12:51 (Dow Jones) Natural gas locals were seen openly haranguing Nymex
board and committee members touring the pits mid-morning Thursday during
a suspension of trading, traders say. "They're not happy - they're
losing money," says one. Pit participants are concerned that ACCESS
trading on low volume has artificially run the price of natural gas up.
Locals, he says, want Nymex to set $1.50 up- and down-limits and stay
with them. (JEE)



12:48 (Dow Jones) The dollar rose for the fifth consecutive month in
November on a trade-weighted basis against other major currencies,
according to the Atlanta Fed.


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc704nw4
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Merrill Cuts Growth View On Wealthy Nations 

1,183 words
7 December 2000
20:14
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



3:14 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch international economist Michael
Hartnett downgrades OECD countries 2001 global growth outlook to 2.6%
from 2.9%. U.S. downgraded to 3.3% from 3.7%. Euroland growth revised
down to 2.8% from 2.9% (JNP)



3:07 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps sink to new lows and dip into the gap area
from earlier this week, taking out support at 1362.50. Next support area
not until gap is closed, at 1355.50, which would wipe out all gains seen
on Tuesday, trader says. (DMC)



2:54 (Dow Jones) Signs of a slowdown in the U.S. economy prompted
Credit First Boston analyst Gibboney Huske to cut her 2001 earnings
estimates for the stocks in her imaging sector. She lowered her view on
Lexmark International (LXK) to $2.60 a share from $2.65; Eastman Kodak
(EK)to $5.10 from $5.40; Pitney Bowes (PBI) to $2.60 from $2.65; and
Polarois (PRD) to $1.40 from $1.60. (DDO)



2:49 (Dow Jones) Cutting its deal price to sell helped Harvard
Bioscience's (HBIO) stock. After pricing an IPO of 6.4 million shares at
$8 - well below original price talk of $11 to $13 a share - the stock is
now trading at $11, for a 37.5% gain. (RJH)



2:44 (Dow Jones) Stocks pulling back a bit, with tech names building
on earlier weakness. Given MOT, MSFT, and NSM developments, not a lot of
impetus to dive in. Short-term players may be nervous about payroll
numbers tomorrow, or possibility of more after-the-close warnings, and
shorts likely don't want to get squeezed by a Fla. court ruling that
could basically end the election fiasco. DJIA off 55 at 10609, Nasdaq
drops 71 to 2726, and S&P 500 loses 10 to 1341. (TG)



2:30 (Dow Jones) A.G. Edwards downgraded Bank of America (BAC), but
believes dividend is secure and that credit quality issues are largely
priced into the shares. Price could be limited near term, though, until
trends begin to improve. Price target now $51, a 10 multiple on next
year's earnings, a below-average valuation assumption. (TG)



2:18 (Dow Jones) Motorola's (MOT) profit warning is not a reflection
of weak global handset demand, noted Merrill Lynch analyst Michael
Ching. "The company did indicate that demand for handsets looks
relatively robust," Ching said. "They haven't changed their global
forecast for handsets for this year or next." Ching said the
announcement was a sign of a problem with execution at Motorola. He cut
his intermediate term rating from buy to accumulate, saying a lower
rating was not warranted given Motorola's low valuation. (JDB)



2:08 (Dow Jones) Health-care investors might want to take note of some
recent comments by Sen.-Elect Hillary Clinton. Clinton, who was sharply
criticized by health-care providers and HMOs in her first attempt to
reform the U.S. system, said Thursday in an Associated Press interview
that the matter is "still one of my priority concerns." There's one
important change in her position, though: This time, she tells AP, any
reform will be done "in a step-by-step way." (RJH)



2:04 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps inch to new session lows, with locals
dominating trade. Weakness in Nasdaq and DJIA also lends pressure,
traders say. "What we're seeing is a continuation of the weakness. The
fundamentals are still bad, nothing has changed," one trader says.
Another says reason not selling of harder is that shorts don't want to
get caught in pro-Bush ruling. (DMC)



1:54 (Dow Jones) Ventro Corp.'s (VNTR) stock is off 17% after the
company announced it's closing two of its online marketplaces, including
its original business. Ventro said the closing of the two unprofitable
marketplaces -- Chemdex and Promedix -- would result in the laying off
of almost half its employees. Ventro began life as Chemdex, an
electronic marketplace for chemicals and other life-sciences supplies,
and later it expanded into other vertical markets. (RS)



1:48 (Dow Jones) Every morning we jump out of bed to get a look at
fair value, trying to get a feel for how the market looks. But do you
know how it's  calculated? Now you do, courtesy of Schaeffer's
Investment Research: Cash{1+R(X/365)} - Dividend - Cash. Cash is the
actual close of the index, R is the current interest rate (typically
3-month T-bill), X represents time left until the current futures
contract expires, and the dividend is calculated by converitng the yield
on the index into points (index value x yield) x (days til
expiration/365). Not too difficult if you have all the data. (TG)



1:36 (Dow Jones) According to Weds. open interest data, S&P 500 open
interest was 501731, breaking Tuesday record of 496339. E-mini S&Ps open
interest was 80954, vs. the open interest record of 79360 set on
Tuesday. (DMC)



1:28 (Dow Jones) In post-election letter to members, CBOT's Brennan
says major initiatives such as the exchange's search for a CEO and
release of the S-4 will be put on hold for Nickolas Neubauer's review
when he assumes position of CBOT chairman next month. (CMN)



1:19 (Dow Jones) State Street (STT) is a relatively small player in
the business of catering to wealthy individuals, but its acquisition of
a tiny Los Angeles firm may indicate that it has bigger ambitions in
this fast-growing area of asset management. (AMB)



1:01 (Dow Jones) If you didn't think you had a big enough selection of
women's underthings, Victoria's Secret's new 18,000 square-foot store at
67th & Broadway in Manhattan may be the place to go. Sales at the
two-level store, which opened in late November, could reach $15 million
in its first year, according to the Intimate Brands (IBI) unit. It's
stocked with 60,000 bras, and more than 100,000 panties among other
items. Excluding beauty and hosiery products, the location has 10 times
as much merhcandise as an average Victoria's Secret store. (PAP)



12:51 (Dow Jones) Natural gas locals were seen openly haranguing Nymex
board and committee members touring the pits mid-morning Thursday during
a suspension of trading, traders say. "They're not happy - they're
losing money," says one. Pit participants are concerned that ACCESS
trading on low volume has artificially run the price of natural gas up.
Locals, he says, want Nymex to set $1.50 up- and down-limits and stay
with them. (JEE)



12:48 (Dow Jones) The dollar rose for the fifth consecutive month in
November on a trade-weighted basis against other major currencies,
according to the Atlanta Fed.


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc704nvd
?
 

 MARKET TALK: New Session Lows On March S&Ps 

1,141 words
7 December 2000
20:07
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



3:07 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps sink to new lows and dip into the gap area
from earlier this week, taking out support at 1362.50. Next support area
not until gap is closed, at 1355.50, which would wipe out all gains seen
on Tuesday, trader says. (DMC)



2:54 (Dow Jones) Signs of a slowdown in the U.S. economy prompted
Credit First Boston analyst Gibboney Huske to cut her 2001 earnings
estimates for the stocks in her imaging sector. She lowered her view on
Lexmark International (LXK) to $2.60 a share from $2.65; Eastman Kodak
(EK)to $5.10 from $5.40; Pitney Bowes (PBI) to $2.60 from $2.65; and
Polarois (PRD) to $1.40 from $1.60. (DDO)



2:49 (Dow Jones) Cutting its deal price to sell helped Harvard
Bioscience's (HBIO) stock. After pricing an IPO of 6.4 million shares at
$8 - well below original price talk of $11 to $13 a share - the stock is
now trading at $11, for a 37.5% gain. (RJH)



2:44 (Dow Jones) Stocks pulling back a bit, with tech names building
on earlier weakness. Given MOT, MSFT, and NSM developments, not a lot of
impetus to dive in. Short-term players may be nervous about payroll
numbers tomorrow, or possibility of more after-the-close warnings, and
shorts likely don't want to get squeezed by a Fla. court ruling that
could basically end the election fiasco. DJIA off 55 at 10609, Nasdaq
drops 71 to 2726, and S&P 500 loses 10 to 1341. (TG)



2:30 (Dow Jones) A.G. Edwards downgraded Bank of America (BAC), but
believes dividend is secure and that credit quality issues are largely
priced into the shares. Price could be limited near term, though, until
trends begin to improve. Price target now $51, a 10 multiple on next
year's earnings, a below-average valuation assumption. (TG)



2:18 (Dow Jones) Motorola's (MOT) profit warning is not a reflection
of weak global handset demand, noted Merrill Lynch analyst Michael
Ching. "The company did indicate that demand for handsets looks
relatively robust," Ching said. "They haven't changed their global
forecast for handsets for this year or next." Ching said the
announcement was a sign of a problem with execution at Motorola. He cut
his intermediate term rating from buy to accumulate, saying a lower
rating was not warranted given Motorola's low valuation. (JDB)



2:08 (Dow Jones) Health-care investors might want to take note of some
recent comments by Sen.-Elect Hillary Clinton. Clinton, who was sharply
criticized by health-care providers and HMOs in her first attempt to
reform the U.S. system, said Thursday in an Associated Press interview
that the matter is "still one of my priority concerns." There's one
important change in her position, though: This time, she tells AP, any
reform will be done "in a step-by-step way." (RJH)



2:04 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps inch to new session lows, with locals
dominating trade. Weakness in Nasdaq and DJIA also lends pressure,
traders say. "What we're seeing is a continuation of the weakness. The
fundamentals are still bad, nothing has changed," one trader says.
Another says reason not selling of harder is that shorts don't want to
get caught in pro-Bush ruling. (DMC)



1:54 (Dow Jones) Ventro Corp.'s (VNTR) stock is off 17% after the
company announced it's closing two of its online marketplaces, including
its original business. Ventro said the closing of the two unprofitable
marketplaces -- Chemdex and Promedix -- would result in the laying off
of almost half its employees. Ventro began life as Chemdex, an
electronic marketplace for chemicals and other life-sciences supplies,
and later it expanded into other vertical markets. (RS)



1:48 (Dow Jones) Every morning we jump out of bed to get a look at
fair value, trying to get a feel for how the market looks. But do you
know how it's  calculated? Now you do, courtesy of Schaeffer's
Investment Research: Cash{1+R(X/365)} - Dividend - Cash. Cash is the
actual close of the index, R is the current interest rate (typically
3-month T-bill), X represents time left until the current futures
contract expires, and the dividend is calculated by converitng the yield
on the index into points (index value x yield) x (days til
expiration/365). Not too difficult if you have all the data. (TG)



1:36 (Dow Jones) According to Weds. open interest data, S&P 500 open
interest was 501731, breaking Tuesday record of 496339. E-mini S&Ps open
interest was 80954, vs. the open interest record of 79360 set on
Tuesday. (DMC)



1:28 (Dow Jones) In post-election letter to members, CBOT's Brennan
says major initiatives such as the exchange's search for a CEO and
release of the S-4 will be put on hold for Nickolas Neubauer's review
when he assumes position of CBOT chairman next month. (CMN)



1:19 (Dow Jones) State Street (STT) is a relatively small player in
the business of catering to wealthy individuals, but its acquisition of
a tiny Los Angeles firm may indicate that it has bigger ambitions in
this fast-growing area of asset management. (AMB)



1:01 (Dow Jones) If you didn't think you had a big enough selection of
women's underthings, Victoria's Secret's new 18,000 square-foot store at
67th & Broadway in Manhattan may be the place to go. Sales at the
two-level store, which opened in late November, could reach $15 million
in its first year, according to the Intimate Brands (IBI) unit. It's
stocked with 60,000 bras, and more than 100,000 panties among other
items. Excluding beauty and hosiery products, the location has 10 times
as much merhcandise as an average Victoria's Secret store. (PAP)



12:51 (Dow Jones) Natural gas locals were seen openly haranguing Nymex
board and committee members touring the pits mid-morning Thursday during
a suspension of trading, traders say. "They're not happy - they're
losing money," says one. Pit participants are concerned that ACCESS
trading on low volume has artificially run the price of natural gas up.
Locals, he says, want Nymex to set $1.50 up- and down-limits and stay
with them. (JEE)



12:48 (Dow Jones) The dollar rose for the fifth consecutive month in
November on a trade-weighted basis against other major currencies,
according to the Atlanta Fed.


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc704nu1
?
 

 MARKET TALK: If You Price It Low Enough, It'll Go Up 

1,015 words
7 December 2000
19:50
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



2:49 (Dow Jones) Cutting its deal price to sell helped Harvard
Bioscience's (HBIO) stock. After pricing an IPO of 6.4 million shares at
$8 - well below original price talk of $11 to $13 a share - the stock is
now trading at $11, for a 37.5% gain. (RJH)



2:44 (Dow Jones) Stocks pulling back a bit, with tech names building
on earlier weakness. Given MOT, MSFT, and NSM developments, not a lot of
impetus to dive in. Short-term players may be nervous about payroll
numbers tomorrow, or possibility of more after-the-close warnings, and
shorts likely don't want to get squeezed by a Fla. court ruling that
could basically end the election fiasco. DJIA off 55 at 10609, Nasdaq
drops 71 to 2726, and S&P 500 loses 10 to 1341. (TG)



2:30 (Dow Jones) A.G. Edwards downgraded Bank of America (BAC), but
believes dividend is secure and that credit quality issues are largely
priced into the shares. Price could be limited near term, though, until
trends begin to improve. Price target now $51, a 10 multiple on next
year's earnings, a below-average valuation assumption. (TG)



2:18 (Dow Jones) Motorola's (MOT) profit warning is not a reflection
of weak global handset demand, noted Merrill Lynch analyst Michael
Ching. "The company did indicate that demand for handsets looks
relatively robust," Ching said. "They haven't changed their global
forecast for handsets for this year or next." Ching said the
announcement was a sign of a problem with execution at Motorola. He cut
his intermediate term rating from buy to accumulate, saying a lower
rating was not warranted given Motorola's low valuation. (JDB)



2:08 (Dow Jones) Health-care investors might want to take note of some
recent comments by Sen.-Elect Hillary Clinton. Clinton, who was sharply
criticized by health-care providers and HMOs in her first attempt to
reform the U.S. system, said Thursday in an Associated Press interview
that the matter is "still one of my priority concerns." There's one
important change in her position, though: This time, she tells AP, any
reform will be done "in a step-by-step way." (RJH)



2:04 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps inch to new session lows, with locals
dominating trade. Weakness in Nasdaq and DJIA also lends pressure,
traders say. "What we're seeing is a continuation of the weakness. The
fundamentals are still bad, nothing has changed," one trader says.
Another says reason not selling of harder is that shorts don't want to
get caught in pro-Bush ruling. (DMC)



1:54 (Dow Jones) Ventro Corp.'s (VNTR) stock is off 17% after the
company announced it's closing two of its online marketplaces, including
its original business. Ventro said the closing of the two unprofitable
marketplaces -- Chemdex and Promedix -- would result in the laying off
of almost half its employees. Ventro began life as Chemdex, an
electronic marketplace for chemicals and other life-sciences supplies,
and later it expanded into other vertical markets. (RS)



1:48 (Dow Jones) Every morning we jump out of bed to get a look at
fair value, trying to get a feel for how the market looks. But do you
know how it's  calculated? Now you do, courtesy of Schaeffer's
Investment Research: Cash{1+R(X/365)} - Dividend - Cash. Cash is the
actual close of the index, R is the current interest rate (typically
3-month T-bill), X represents time left until the current futures
contract expires, and the dividend is calculated by converitng the yield
on the index into points (index value x yield) x (days til
expiration/365). Not too difficult if you have all the data. (TG)



1:36 (Dow Jones) According to Weds. open interest data, S&P 500 open
interest was 501731, breaking Tuesday record of 496339. E-mini S&Ps open
interest was 80954, vs. the open interest record of 79360 set on
Tuesday. (DMC)



1:28 (Dow Jones) In post-election letter to members, CBOT's Brennan
says major initiatives such as the exchange's search for a CEO and
release of the S-4 will be put on hold for Nickolas Neubauer's review
when he assumes position of CBOT chairman next month. (CMN)



1:19 (Dow Jones) State Street (STT) is a relatively small player in
the business of catering to wealthy individuals, but its acquisition of
a tiny Los Angeles firm may indicate that it has bigger ambitions in
this fast-growing area of asset management. (AMB)



1:01 (Dow Jones) If you didn't think you had a big enough selection of
women's underthings, Victoria's Secret's new 18,000 square-foot store at
67th & Broadway in Manhattan may be the place to go. Sales at the
two-level store, which opened in late November, could reach $15 million
in its first year, according to the Intimate Brands (IBI) unit. It's
stocked with 60,000 bras, and more than 100,000 panties among other
items. Excluding beauty and hosiery products, the location has 10 times
as much merhcandise as an average Victoria's Secret store. (PAP)



12:51 (Dow Jones) Natural gas locals were seen openly haranguing Nymex
board and committee members touring the pits mid-morning Thursday during
a suspension of trading, traders say. "They're not happy - they're
losing money," says one. Pit participants are concerned that ACCESS
trading on low volume has artificially run the price of natural gas up.
Locals, he says, want Nymex to set $1.50 up- and down-limits and stay
with them. (JEE)



12:48 (Dow Jones) The dollar rose for the fifth consecutive month in
November on a trade-weighted basis against other major currencies,
according to the Atlanta Fed.


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc704nsp
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Stocks Can't Shake Weakness 

959 words
7 December 2000
19:44
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



2:44 (Dow Jones) Stocks pulling back a bit, with tech names building
on earlier weakness. Given MOT, MSFT, and NSM developments, not a lot of
impetus to dive in. Short-term players may be nervous about payroll
numbers tomorrow, or possibility of more after-the-close warnings, and
shorts likely don't want to get squeezed by a Fla. court ruling that
could basically end the election fiasco. DJIA off 55 at 10609, Nasdaq
drops 71 to 2726, and S&P 500 loses 10 to 1341. (TG)



2:30 (Dow Jones) A.G. Edwards downgraded Bank of America (BAC), but
believes dividend is secure and that credit quality issues are largely
priced into the shares. Price could be limited near term, though, until
trends begin to improve. Price target now $51, a 10 multiple on next
year's earnings, a below-average valuation assumption. (TG)



2:18 (Dow Jones) Motorola's (MOT) profit warning is not a reflection
of weak global handset demand, noted Merrill Lynch analyst Michael
Ching. "The company did indicate that demand for handsets looks
relatively robust," Ching said. "They haven't changed their global
forecast for handsets for this year or next." Ching said the
announcement was a sign of a problem with execution at Motorola. He cut
his intermediate term rating from buy to accumulate, saying a lower
rating was not warranted given Motorola's low valuation. (JDB)



2:08 (Dow Jones) Health-care investors might want to take note of some
recent comments by Sen.-Elect Hillary Clinton. Clinton, who was sharply
criticized by health-care providers and HMOs in her first attempt to
reform the U.S. system, said Thursday in an Associated Press interview
that the matter is "still one of my priority concerns." There's one
important change in her position, though: This time, she tells AP, any
reform will be done "in a step-by-step way." (RJH)



2:04 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps inch to new session lows, with locals
dominating trade. Weakness in Nasdaq and DJIA also lends pressure,
traders say. "What we're seeing is a continuation of the weakness. The
fundamentals are still bad, nothing has changed," one trader says.
Another says reason not selling of harder is that shorts don't want to
get caught in pro-Bush ruling. (DMC)



1:54 (Dow Jones) Ventro Corp.'s (VNTR) stock is off 17% after the
company announced it's closing two of its online marketplaces, including
its original business. Ventro said the closing of the two unprofitable
marketplaces -- Chemdex and Promedix -- would result in the laying off
of almost half its employees. Ventro began life as Chemdex, an
electronic marketplace for chemicals and other life-sciences supplies,
and later it expanded into other vertical markets. (RS)



1:48 (Dow Jones) Every morning we jump out of bed to get a look at
fair value, trying to get a feel for how the market looks. But do you
know how it's  calculated? Now you do, courtesy of Schaeffer's
Investment Research: Cash{1+R(X/365)} - Dividend - Cash. Cash is the
actual close of the index, R is the current interest rate (typically
3-month T-bill), X represents time left until the current futures
contract expires, and the dividend is calculated by converitng the yield
on the index into points (index value x yield) x (days til
expiration/365). Not too difficult if you have all the data. (TG)



1:36 (Dow Jones) According to Weds. open interest data, S&P 500 open
interest was 501731, breaking Tuesday record of 496339. E-mini S&Ps open
interest was 80954, vs. the open interest record of 79360 set on
Tuesday. (DMC)



1:28 (Dow Jones) In post-election letter to members, CBOT's Brennan
says major initiatives such as the exchange's search for a CEO and
release of the S-4 will be put on hold for Nickolas Neubauer's review
when he assumes position of CBOT chairman next month. (CMN)



1:19 (Dow Jones) State Street (STT) is a relatively small player in
the business of catering to wealthy individuals, but its acquisition of
a tiny Los Angeles firm may indicate that it has bigger ambitions in
this fast-growing area of asset management. (AMB)



1:01 (Dow Jones) If you didn't think you had a big enough selection of
women's underthings, Victoria's Secret's new 18,000 square-foot store at
67th & Broadway in Manhattan may be the place to go. Sales at the
two-level store, which opened in late November, could reach $15 million
in its first year, according to the Intimate Brands (IBI) unit. It's
stocked with 60,000 bras, and more than 100,000 panties among other
items. Excluding beauty and hosiery products, the location has 10 times
as much merhcandise as an average Victoria's Secret store. (PAP)



12:51 (Dow Jones) Natural gas locals were seen openly haranguing Nymex
board and committee members touring the pits mid-morning Thursday during
a suspension of trading, traders say. "They're not happy - they're
losing money," says one. Pit participants are concerned that ACCESS
trading on low volume has artificially run the price of natural gas up.
Locals, he says, want Nymex to set $1.50 up- and down-limits and stay
with them. (JEE)



12:48 (Dow Jones) The dollar rose for the fifth consecutive month in
November on a trade-weighted basis against other major currencies,
according to the Atlanta Fed.


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc704nsd
?
 

 MARKET TALK: A.G. Edwards Says BAC Dividend Safe 

872 words
7 December 2000
19:32
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



2:30 (Dow Jones) A.G. Edwards downgraded Bank of America (BAC), but
believes dividend is secure and that credit quality issues are largely
priced into the shares. Price could be limited near term, though, until
trends begin to improve. Price target now $51, a 10 multiple on next
year's earnings, a below-average valuation assumption. (TG)



2:18 (Dow Jones) Motorola's (MOT) profit warning is not a reflection
of weak global handset demand, noted Merrill Lynch analyst Michael
Ching. "The company did indicate that demand for handsets looks
relatively robust," Ching said. "They haven't changed their global
forecast for handsets for this year or next." Ching said the
announcement was a sign of a problem with execution at Motorola. He cut
his intermediate term rating from buy to accumulate, saying a lower
rating was not warranted given Motorola's low valuation. (JDB)



2:08 (Dow Jones) Health-care investors might want to take note of some
recent comments by Sen.-Elect Hillary Clinton. Clinton, who was sharply
criticized by health-care providers and HMOs in her first attempt to
reform the U.S. system, said Thursday in an Associated Press interview
that the matter is "still one of my priority concerns." There's one
important change in her position, though: This time, she tells AP, any
reform will be done "in a step-by-step way." (RJH)



2:04 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps inch to new session lows, with locals
dominating trade. Weakness in Nasdaq and DJIA also lends pressure,
traders say. "What we're seeing is a continuation of the weakness. The
fundamentals are still bad, nothing has changed," one trader says.
Another says reason not selling of harder is that shorts don't want to
get caught in pro-Bush ruling. (DMC)



1:54 (Dow Jones) Ventro Corp.'s (VNTR) stock is off 17% after the
company announced it's closing two of its online marketplaces, including
its original business. Ventro said the closing of the two unprofitable
marketplaces -- Chemdex and Promedix -- would result in the laying off
of almost half its employees. Ventro began life as Chemdex, an
electronic marketplace for chemicals and other life-sciences supplies,
and later it expanded into other vertical markets. (RS)



1:48 (Dow Jones) Every morning we jump out of bed to get a look at
fair value, trying to get a feel for how the market looks. But do you
know how it's  calculated? Now you do, courtesy of Schaeffer's
Investment Research: Cash{1+R(X/365)} - Dividend - Cash. Cash is the
actual close of the index, R is the current interest rate (typically
3-month T-bill), X represents time left until the current futures
contract expires, and the dividend is calculated by converitng the yield
on the index into points (index value x yield) x (days til
expiration/365). Not too difficult if you have all the data. (TG)



1:36 (Dow Jones) According to Weds. open interest data, S&P 500 open
interest was 501731, breaking Tuesday record of 496339. E-mini S&Ps open
interest was 80954, vs. the open interest record of 79360 set on
Tuesday. (DMC)



1:28 (Dow Jones) In post-election letter to members, CBOT's Brennan
says major initiatives such as the exchange's search for a CEO and
release of the S-4 will be put on hold for Nickolas Neubauer's review
when he assumes position of CBOT chairman next month. (CMN)



1:19 (Dow Jones) State Street (STT) is a relatively small player in
the business of catering to wealthy individuals, but its acquisition of
a tiny Los Angeles firm may indicate that it has bigger ambitions in
this fast-growing area of asset management. (AMB)



1:01 (Dow Jones) If you didn't think you had a big enough selection of
women's underthings, Victoria's Secret's new 18,000 square-foot store at
67th & Broadway in Manhattan may be the place to go. Sales at the
two-level store, which opened in late November, could reach $15 million
in its first year, according to the Intimate Brands (IBI) unit. It's
stocked with 60,000 bras, and more than 100,000 panties among other
items. Excluding beauty and hosiery products, the location has 10 times
as much merhcandise as an average Victoria's Secret store. (PAP)



12:51 (Dow Jones) Natural gas locals were seen openly haranguing Nymex
board and committee members touring the pits mid-morning Thursday during
a suspension of trading, traders say. "They're not happy - they're
losing money," says one. Pit participants are concerned that ACCESS
trading on low volume has artificially run the price of natural gas up.
Locals, he says, want Nymex to set $1.50 up- and down-limits and stay
with them. (JEE)



12:48 (Dow Jones) The dollar rose for the fifth consecutive month in
November on a trade-weighted basis against other major currencies,
according to the Atlanta Fed.


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc704nrz
?
 

 MARKET TALK: MOT Problem One Of Execution, Says Merrill 

1,542 words
7 December 2000
19:18
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



2:18 (Dow Jones) Motorola's (MOT) profit warning is not a reflection
of weak global handset demand, noted Merrill Lynch analyst Michael
Ching. "The company did indicate that demand for handsets looks
relatively robust," Ching said. "They haven't changed their global
forecast for handsets for this year or next." Ching said the
announcement was a sign of a problem with execution at Motorola. He cut
his intermediate term rating from buy to accumulate, saying a lower
rating was not warranted given Motorola's low valuation. (JDB)



2:08 (Dow Jones) Health-care investors might want to take note of some
recent comments by Sen.-Elect Hillary Clinton. Clinton, who was sharply
criticized by health-care providers and HMOs in her first attempt to
reform the U.S. system, said Thursday in an Associated Press interview
that the matter is "still one of my priority concerns." There's one
important change in her position, though: This time, she tells AP, any
reform will be done "in a step-by-step way." (RJH)



2:04 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps inch to new session lows, with locals
dominating trade. Weakness in Nasdaq and DJIA also lends pressure,
traders say. "What we're seeing is a continuation of the weakness. The
fundamentals are still bad, nothing has changed," one trader says.
Another says reason not selling of harder is that shorts don't want to
get caught in pro-Bush ruling. (DMC)



1:54 (Dow Jones) Ventro Corp.'s (VNTR) stock is off 17% after the
company announced it's closing two of its online marketplaces, including
its original business. Ventro said the closing of the two unprofitable
marketplaces -- Chemdex and Promedix -- would result in the laying off
of almost half its employees. Ventro began life as Chemdex, an
electronic marketplace for chemicals and other life-sciences supplies,
and later it expanded into other vertical markets. (RS)



1:48 (Dow Jones) Every morning we jump out of bed to get a look at
fair value, trying to get a feel for how the market looks. But do you
know how it's  calculated? Now you do, courtesy of Schaeffer's
Investment Research: Cash{1+R(X/365)} - Dividend - Cash. Cash is the
actual close of the index, R is the current interest rate (typically
3-month T-bill), X represents time left until the current futures
contract expires, and the dividend is calculated by converitng the yield
on the index into points (index value x yield) x (days til
expiration/365). Not too difficult if you have all the data. (TG)



1:36 (Dow Jones) According to Weds. open interest data, S&P 500 open
interest was 501731, breaking Tuesday record of 496339. E-mini S&Ps open
interest was 80954, vs. the open interest record of 79360 set on
Tuesday. (DMC)



1:28 (Dow Jones) In post-election letter to members, CBOT's Brennan
says major initiatives such as the exchange's search for a CEO and
release of the S-4 will be put on hold for Nickolas Neubauer's review
when he assumes position of CBOT chairman next month. (CMN)



1:19 (Dow Jones) State Street (STT) is a relatively small player in
the business of catering to wealthy individuals, but its acquisition of
a tiny Los Angeles firm may indicate that it has bigger ambitions in
this fast-growing area of asset management. (AMB)



1:01 (Dow Jones) If you didn't think you had a big enough selection of
women's underthings, Victoria's Secret's new 18,000 square-foot store at
67th & Broadway in Manhattan may be the place to go. Sales at the
two-level store, which opened in late November, could reach $15 million
in its first year, according to the Intimate Brands (IBI) unit. It's
stocked with 60,000 bras, and more than 100,000 panties among other
items. Excluding beauty and hosiery products, the location has 10 times
as much merhcandise as an average Victoria's Secret store. (PAP)



12:51 (Dow Jones) Natural gas locals were seen openly haranguing Nymex
board and committee members touring the pits mid-morning Thursday during
a suspension of trading, traders say. "They're not happy - they're
losing money," says one. Pit participants are concerned that ACCESS
trading on low volume has artificially run the price of natural gas up.
Locals, he says, want Nymex to set $1.50 up- and down-limits and stay
with them. (JEE)



12:48 (Dow Jones) The dollar rose for the fifth consecutive month in
November on a trade-weighted basis against other major currencies,
according to the Atlanta Fed.



12:44 (Dow Jones) No one should be too surprised by the weak outlook
coming out of National Semi (NSM), but it is pretty grim. After managing
to beat reduced fiscal second quarter estimates, the chip maker lowered
third-quarter sales forecasts for the second time in as many months. The
company also expects gross margins will continue to narrow. (MER)



12:11 (Dow Jones) Manugistics (MANU) - seeking to allay any concerns
that might have been sparked by news that one of its clients,
VirtualFund.com (VFND), had demanded the return of $2.5 million it had
paid - filed a lawsuit seeking $4.5 million from its customer and
reaffirmed that the ongoing skirmish will not hurt its financial
results. Manugistics said it will report November quarter revenue and
earnings "consistent with or exceeding consensus estimates." Stock up
5%. (MLP)



12:05 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps are rangebound, traders say, with solid
support seen around the low of 1365. A move under 1362.50 could take the
market through the upside gap put in on Weds. The bottom of the gap
starts at 1355.50. However, traders say most of the orders going through
the market are small lots and are unlikely to jar the market much. (DMC)



11:53 (Dow Jones) Schaeffer's Investment says AMEX Biotech index has
reached critical juncture. The barometer closed near its day low on
Wednesday, and beneath its 20-day moving average. Longer-term, the index
is having trouble holding above its 10-month moving average, and
November marked the first monthly close below that trendline since Sept.
1998. (TG)



11:44 (Dow Jones) Treasurys are extending their slide after a slightly
weak buyback. The 10-year note is at 5.36%, about 6 bp off its low yield
for the day. After several days of rallying, traders seem inclined to
book some profits, especially given the risk that an on-consensus or
stronger employment report could knock some stuffing out of Treasurys
following the strong rally seen in recent days. (SV)



11:30 (Dow Jones) Nymex natural gas trading to resume at 11:30 a.m.
ET.. Market stopped trading at 10:30 after Jan. contract fell 75 cents.
Trade to resume with 75-cent down limits in effect. (JEE)



11:27 (Dow Jones) Freddie Mac's Robert Van Order says the markets'
perception that the Fed may soon lower interest rates caused 30-year
fixed rate mortgage to drop to the current 7.54% (for the week ending
Dec. 8), the lowest point since July 1999. (JS)



11:20 (Dow Jones) IPO analysts continue to warn investors away from
the deals in the pipeline now. Despite Tuesday's gain, "one day on the
upside does not an IPO bull market make," says David Menlow, president
of IPOfinancial.com. His advice: "Don't spend all your money from that
wonderful snowjob rally the market threw at you this past Tuesday."
(RJH)



11:15 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps weaker in choppy trade, with rolling of
positions the main feature for the session. "I thought we had a chance
to go higher when Nasdaq rallied, but the way it has come back, I think
we're going to sit here," he says. "Plus, the way we closed yesterday
says we haven't turned the corner." (DMC)



11:11 (Dow Jones) Check out the chart on United Technologies (UTX).
Note the multi-year base, which has the shares set up for a nice run
higher. "A terrific chart in an Old Economy world," says Lehman's Jeff
deGraaf. Target is $95. The DJIA component recently changed hands at
$75. (TG)



11:06 (Dow Jones) Nov. payrolls seen up 150K, while the jobless rate
is expected to edge up to 4% and average hourly earnings are forecast to
increase by 0.3%, according to a DJ/CNBC survey. If accurate, these
figures would offer added weight to signs of a sharp slowing of the
economy. (FL)



10:54 (Dow Jones) Optima Investment Research analysts say today could
be a big day for the presidential election because there is a
possibility that decisions could come down from today's three court
cases: the Florida Supreme Court hearing on the Gore election contest
appeal and the trials in Florida circuit county court regarding absentee
ballot handling in Martin and Seminole counties. (CMN)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc704nqx
?
 

 TheSUBWAY.com Announces Investment Opinions on Clements Golden Phoenix Enterprises, Scient Corp., Red Hat Inc., Adelphia Communications and Read-Rite Corporation 

1,063 words
7 December 2000
14:24
Business Wire
BWR
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Business Wire) 

 WESTON, Fla.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Dec. 7, 2000--Clements Golden Phoenix Enterprises, Inc. (OTCBB:CPHX), is new to TheSUBWAY.com. CRG is planning an intense public relations campaign to alert new-experienced investors of this opportunity. CRG feels that CPHX could be trading over the $3.00 mark in the short term. 

 CPHX will immediately send its biggest shipment ever of Clements premium frozen concentrated orange juice, directly to The People's Republic of China. More than 100,000 cans of the company's high-quality frozen orange juice are currently being packed into four (4) containers. How many shipments will be sent per year??? CRG feels that this will not be the only one. Watch for more news from CPHX. We feel this is a mover. 

 Electronic business systems maker Scient Corp. (NASDAQ:SCNT) on Wednesday lowered earnings and revenue forecasts for its fiscal third quarter, as the company announced a restructuring that included the elimination of about 460 jobs. 

 Scient attributed the downward revenue and earnings revisions to rapid changes in the eBusiness market, and said it plans to reduce capacity to meet current market demand. With this in mind, and taking into consideration the 52 week high of the stock and recent market conditions, CRG feels that this stock may be poised for a slight rebound. CRG also thinks that a base can form around the $3.00 mark with a rebound in place. 

 Red Hat Inc. (NASDAQ:RHAT) just announced announced at the LISA System Administrators show an expanding range of e-commerce and services offerings for Apache and the Red Hat Stronghold Secure Web Server, including new support options and training through Red Hat Global Learning Services. 

 Revenues were recently announced up 80% as well as the loss at $30 million. Results reflect increased demand for Open Source solutions, offset by increased personnel and amortization expenses. This is another company on CRG's Radar. 

 Adelphia Communications (NASDAQ:ABIZ) has purchased additional digital headends from Scientific- Atlanta. The deployment is expected to pass an additional 2.3 million homes by March 31, 2001. 

 The Company currently offers a full range of communications services in 53 markets and expects by the end of the year 2000 to be offering services in approximately 115 markets nationwide, including substantially all of the top 40 metropolitan statistical areas in the United States. The Stock has been beaten down all year, and with this in mind may have a nice rebound coming into the new year. 

 The State of Wisconsin Investment Board has invested an additional $18.9 million in Read-Rite Corporation (NASDAQ:RDRT) by purchasing 2.7 million shares of common stock at $7.00 per share. 

 John Nelson, Investment Director for SWIB stated, "As a long-term shareholder of Read-Rite Corporation, we are encouraged with the changes and the progress the company has made over the past several quarters and are impressed with the technological direction they are taking for the future." We don't need to say any more about that one. CRG is watching for more news to come from the company. 

 "Wall Street received a reminder on Wednesday that worries remain about corporate earnings in the slowing economy, as a profit warning from Apple Computer and Banc of America weighed on investors. Both major averages failed to pull off a follow-through rally from Tuesday's stellar gains, disappointing many traders and analysts who felt the market was ripe for a prolonged upswing." Stated Peter Antipatis. More is available at http://www.thesubway.com. 

 About TheSubway.com 

 TheSubway.com, a wholly owned online asset of Capital Research Group, Inc. (CRG) was developed solely for experienced, risk tolerant investors. Subscribers to TheSubway.com receive daily market commentary reports for select companies trading on various markets. Sophisticated investors are also able to receive for free, select, rare research reports and investor kits on up and coming emerging companies while they are still not widely known. 

 About Capital Research Group Inc. 

 Through TheSubway.com, Capital Research Group (CRG) introduces what in its opinion are undervalued companies to the investment community. Capital Research Group strives to locate companies with enormous growth potential. CRG is a full service public relations / Investor relations firm. For more information about our products or services, please contact CRG at 954-217-9555 or visit us at http://www.thesubway.com. 

 Contact: 

 Charles T. Tamburello President / CEO Capital Research Group Inc. Phone: 954-217-9555 Fax:     954-389-5756 Email: chuck@TheSubway.com 

 All material herein was prepared by Capital Research Group, Inc. (CRG) based upon information supplied by the company or other sources believed to be reliable. The information contained herein is not guaranteed by CRG to be accurate, and should not be considered to be all-inclusive. The companies that are discussed in this opinion have not approved the statements made in this opinion. This opinion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. A company's actual results could differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statements or announcements discussed herein. This material is for informational purposes only and should not be construed as an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell securities. CRG is not a licensed broker, broker dealer, market marker, investment banker, investment advisor, analyst or underwriter. Please consult a broker before purchasing or selling any securities viewed on www.thesubway.com. CRG has been compensated by third party shareholders or with cash from the company on behalf of one or more of the companies mentioned in this opinion. (CRG has not been compensated to date but should receive 30,000 shares of CPHXI) CRG's affiliates, officers, directors and employees may also have bought or may buy the shares discussed in this opinion and may profit in the event those shares rise in value. CRG will not advise as to when it decides to sell and does not and will not offer any opinion as to when others should sell; each investor must make that decision based on his or her judgment of the market. 


           CONTACT: Capital Research Group, Weston
             Charles T. Tamburello, 954/217-9555
             President / CEO
             Fax: 954/389-5756
             Email: chuck@TheSubway.com



09:24 EST   DECEMBER  7, 2000


Document bwr0000020010804dwc705f3s
?
 

 TheSUBWAY.com Announces Investment Opinion on Clements Golden Phoenix Enterprises 

1,052 words
7 December 2000
12:30
Business Wire
BWR
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Business Wire) 

 WESTON, Fla.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Dec. 7, 2000--Clements Golden Phoenix Enterprises, Inc. (OTCBB: CPHX), is new to TheSUBWAY.com. CRG is planning an intense public relations campaign to alert new-experienced investors of this opportunity. CRG feels that CPHX could be trading over the $3.00 mark in the short term. 

 CPHX will immediately send its biggest shipment ever of Clements premium frozen concentrated orange juice, directly to The People's Republic of China. More than 100,000 cans of the company's high-quality frozen orange juice are currently being packed into four (4) containers. How many shipments will be sent per year??? CRG feels that this will not be the only one. Watch for more news from CPHX. We feel this is a mover. 

 Electronic business systems maker Scient Corp. (NASDAQ: SCNT) on Wednesday lowered earnings and revenue forecasts for its fiscal third quarter, as the company announced a restructuring that included the elimination of about 460 jobs. 

 Scient attributed the downward revenue and earnings revisions to rapid changes in the eBusiness market, and said it plans to reduce capacity to meet current market demand. With this in mind, and taking into consideration the 52 week high of the stock and recent market conditions, CRG feels that this stock may be poised for a slight rebound. CRG also thinks that a base can form around the $3.00 mark with a rebound in place. 

 Red Hat Inc. (NASDAQ: RHAT) just announced announced at the LISA System Administrators show an expanding range of e-commerce and services offerings for Apache and the Red Hat Stronghold Secure Web Server, including new support options and training through Red Hat Global Learning Services. 

 Revenues were recently announced up 80% as well as the loss at $30 million. Results reflect increased demand for Open Source solutions, offset by increased personnel and amortization expenses. This is another company on CRG's Radar. 

 Adelphia Communications (NASDAQ: ABIZ) has purchased additional digital headends from Scientific- Atlanta. The deployment is expected to pass an additional 2.3 million homes by March 31, 2001. 

 The Company currently offers a full range of communications services in 53 markets and expects by the end of the year 2000 to be offering services in approximately 115 markets nationwide, including substantially all of the top 40 metropolitan statistical areas in the United States. The Stock has been beaten down all year, and with this in mind may have a nice rebound coming into the new year. 

 The State of Wisconsin Investment Board has invested an additional $18.9 million in Read-Rite Corporation (NASDAQ: RDRT) by purchasing 2.7 million shares of common stock at $7.00 per share. 

 John Nelson, Investment Director for SWIB stated, "As a long-term shareholder of Read-Rite Corporation, we are encouraged with the changes and the progress the company has made over the past several quarters and are impressed with the technological direction they are taking for the future." We don't need to say any more about that one. CRG is watching for more news to come from the company. 

 "Wall Street received a reminder on Wednesday that worries remain about corporate earnings in the slowing economy, as a profit warning from Apple Computer and Banc of America weighed on investors. Both major averages failed to pull off a follow-through rally from Tuesday's stellar gains, disappointing many traders and analysts who felt the market was ripe for a prolonged upswing." Stated Peter Antipatis. More is available at http://www.thesubway.com. 

 About TheSubway.com 

 TheSubway.com, a wholly owned online asset of Capital Research Group, Inc. (CRG) was developed solely for experienced, risk tolerant investors. Subscribers to TheSubway.com receive daily market commentary reports for select companies trading on various markets. Sophisticated investors are also able to receive for free, select, rare research reports and investor kits on up and coming emerging companies while they are still not widely known. 

 About Capital Research Group Inc. 

 Through TheSubway.com, Capital Research Group (CRG) introduces what in its opinion are undervalued companies to the investment community. Capital Research Group strives to locate companies with enormous growth potential. CRG is a full service public relations / Investor relations firm. For more information about our products or services, please contact CRG at 954-217-9555 or visit us at http://www.thesubway.com. 

 Contact: 

 Charles T. Tamburello President / CEO Capital Research Group Inc. Phone: 954-217-9555 Fax:     954-389-5756 Email: chuck@TheSubway.com 

 All material herein was prepared by Capital Research Group, Inc. (CRG) based upon information supplied by the company or other sources believed to be reliable. The information contained herein is not guaranteed by CRG to be accurate, and should not be considered to be all-inclusive. The companies that are discussed in this opinion have not approved the statements made in this opinion. This opinion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. A company's actual results could differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statements or announcements discussed herein. This material is for informational purposes only and should not be construed as an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell securities. CRG is not a licensed broker, broker dealer, market marker, investment banker, investment advisor, analyst or underwriter. Please consult a broker before purchasing or selling any securities viewed on www.thesubway.com. CRG has been compensated by third party shareholders or with cash from the company on behalf of one or more of the companies mentioned in this opinion. (CRG has not been compensated to date but should receive 30,000 shares of CPHXI) CRG's affiliates, officers, directors and employees may also have bought or may buy the shares discussed in this opinion and may profit in the event those shares rise in value. CRG will not advise as to when it decides to sell and does not and will not offer any opinion as to when others should sell; each investor must make that decision based on his or her judgment of the market. 


           CONTACT: Capital Research Group, Weston
             Charles T. Tamburello, 954/217-9555
             President / CEO
             Fax: 954/389-5756
             Email: chuck@TheSubway.com



07:30 EST   DECEMBER  7, 2000


Document bwr0000020010804dwc705esq
?
 

 US TSYS UP SLIGHTLY IN EARLY US - FRONT END HIGHER. 

416 words
6 December 2000
13:28
Market News International
MARNEW
English
(c) 2000. Market News International, Inc.

 NEW YORK (MktNews) - U.S. Treasuries were slightly up in early trading Wednesday with the front end higher amid optimism interest rates are headed lower next month and as traders began to look ahead to Friday's employment report, market sources said. 

 US stock futures moved into negative territory, also assisting the turnabout in London, after getting a profit warning from Apple Computer late on Tuesday. At 8 a.m. EST the Dow futures were down 21 points, with the NASD off 15.50 points and the S&P 0.20 point lower. 

 After some profit taking surfaced in Asia, mostly in the intermediate sector, taking prices lower, they firmed again in Europe with the short end outperforming on continued convictions that the Federal Reserve is on the cusp of changing to an easier monetary policy stance, sources said. 

 Buying in the short end in Asia was led by central banks and funds while Asian banks were also seen buying off-the-run intermediate paper, sources said. Five-years saw the most buying although there were scattered reports of selling of off-the-run 5s, but 10-years also saw strong buying from European and other non-Asian accounts. There was again good buying of agency paper overnight. 

 In spread product, Fannie Mae will price its new $6 billion five-year benchmark Wednesday morning while Verizon could come to market as early as this week with a deal estimated at $3 billion, sources said. 

 At 10 a.m. EST the Treasury will announce the size of its bimonthly buyback auctions, likely removing $1 to $1.5 billion in an 11 a.m. EST auction Thursday. 

 On the Fed talk circuit, Philadelphia Fed President Anthony Santomero and Governor Edward Gramlich will be speaking on predatory lending at a conference in Philadelphia Wednesday. Later, Governor Roger Ferguson will be speaking on technology in Rochester. 

 Finally, the Fed's Beige Book detailing U.S. economic conditions on a region-by-region basis which will be used at the Dec. 19 Federal Open Market Committee meeting will be released at 2 p.m. 

 At 8:05 a.m. Wednesday, the 30-year bond was trading at a yield of 5.58%, compared with 5.58% at 3:20 p.m. EST Tuesday, while the 10-year note was at a yield of 5.41% versus 5.43% late Tuesday. - Ellen Taylor; (212) 509-9270; Email: etaylor@marketnews.com. 

Document marnew0020010814dwc60104n

Search Summary

 Text	((“profit*” same “warning*”) or ("disappoint*" same "result*") or ("decreas*" same "profit*") or ("compan*" same "downturn*") or ("unexpect*" same "loss*"))
 Date	12/01/2000 to 12/31/2000
 Source	All Sources
 Author	All Authors
 Company	All Companies
 Subject	 Not Corporate/Industrial News
 Industry	All Industries
 Region	United States
 Language	English
 Results Found	241
 Timestamp	29 March 2018 10:28























•	  Brazil stocks dip on profit-taking, Petrobras fall. 
•	  U.S. mortgage debt gains, refinancing worries lurk. 
•	 Bank of America issues  profit warning
•	  Optimism fuels rise in Asian indexes 
•	  Nasdaq Loss Widens; Bank Of Amer Credit Concerns Cited 
•	  MARKET TALK: Merrill Says VerticalNet May See Softer Demand 
•	  MARKET TALK: Brent Off Big, Hits Intraday Low 
•	  MARKET TALK: Worth It For WorldCom To Do Intermedia Deal 
•	  MARKET TALK: CBOT Election Results Won't Take a Month 
•	  MARKET TALK: Jefferies Not Buying Talk Of NETA Shortfall 
•	  MARKET TALK: Dec. S&Ps Drop On Nasdaq Weakness 
•	  MARKET TALK: No IPO Action Weds., But Secondary Looks Good 
•	  MARKET TALK: Merrill Cuts Numbers On CanWest Global 
•	  MARKET TALK: Phone Sector Bonds Back Up On Verizon Talk 
•	  MARKET TALK: The Stock And A Dime Will Get You A Stamp 
•	  MARKET TALK: March S&Ps, Nasdaq Front Month Thursday 
•	  MARKET TALK: Stock Futures Drop Early On Profit Taking 
•	  MARKET TALK: Buying Chance In Chemical Sector Bonds 
•	  MARKET TALK: Blodget Down On Yahoo 1H, Likes 2H 
•	  MARKET TALK: Nasdaq Will Retest Lows, Roque Says 
•	  MARKET TALK: Some Viacom Holders May Not Even Know This 
•	  MARKET TALK: Lehman's Niles Still Cautious On Apple 
•	  MARKET TALK: Look For Some Profit Taking In Tsys 
•	 Newscast: Recap of stock market news   
•	  Wall Street rallies on Greenspan comments, election moves 
•	  IS THE US HEADED FOR A HARD LANDING? 
•	  BUSINESS TODAY Series: BUSINESS TODAY  
•	  Scholastic Executive To Pay Fine in Case Over Earnings Report 
•	  IT World - Slowing high tech market could give Euro a break. 
•	  European shares fall amid fears over US economy ATTENTION - RECASTS, UPDATES share prices, indices /// 
•	  Lukewarm figures dampen US rally. 
•	  Huntsman-U. Idea Might Be Good -- But Only for the Greedy 
•	 Texas Offshore Drilling Contractor Issues  Profit Warning
•	  Australia Has Protection From US Meltdown 
•	 Slowdown fears hit US markets
•	  U.S. Markets Fall On Tech Tremors --- Europeans Also Unload Shares --- Nasdaq Ends Day Nearly 50% Below Its March High   
•	  Profit News Drags Down Tech Stocks --- Nasdaq Drop Marks Third Consecutive Session Index Has Hit Low for Year    
•	  Technology stocks dive as earnings fears return in London 
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	  Smaller Company Annual Reports: MAGNUM POWER - MGP - Provider Of Power 
•	  MARKET TALK/Europe: Roundup Of Stocks, Mkt Activity ?
 

 Brazil stocks dip on profit-taking, Petrobras fall. 

 By Nicholas Winning 
416 words
6 December 2000
20:45
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 SAO PAULO, Dec 6 (Reuters) - Brazilian shares lost ground on Wednesday on the back of general profit-taking and losses by oil giant and market heavyweight Petrobras, which fell with crude prices, traders said. 

 The Sao Paulo Stock Exchange's benchmark Bovespa index fell 1.7 percent to 13,945.4. Decliners outpaced gainers by 36 to 21, leaving the index 18.5 percent lower than the beginning of the year. 

 The index rose a whopping five percent on Tuesday after powerful Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan sparked speculation of lower U.S. interest rates. 

 "I think we exaggerated the euphoria," said Concordia brokerage trader Marcelo Porto. "The least we could expect was some profit-taking." 

 Tuesday's rally was in stark contrast to the recent depressed performance of the index, which has been hit by twin worries about a harsher-than-expected slowdown in the U.S. economy and fallout from neighboring Argentina's economic problems. 

 Traders said the market was also adjusting to some profit-taking on U.S. markets, which suffered from a profit warning from Apple Computer Inc. after the market closed on Tuesday. 

 Shares in state-owned oil giant Petrobras fell 6.7 percent to 44.60 reais as crude prices dipped to their lowest point since July on the expectations of a resumption of Iraqi oil exports. The company's shares make up about nine percent of the Bovespa index. 

 State-owned electricity company Cesp Parana was another key loser with a 10.3 percent fall to 16.95 reais, adding to Tuesday's near seven percent slump. 

 The stock dropped like a stone after the government postponed its privatization auction at the eleventh hour on Tuesday due to a lack of bidders. The firm had been scheduled to be privatized this morning with a base price of $859 million. 

 Six foreign bidders had initially shown interest in Cesp, which produces more than half of the electricity for Sao Paulo, Brazil's richest and most populous state. 

 Traders took profits on the liquid telecom sector, which rallied on Tuesday. 

 Telecom heavyweight Telemar, the second heaviest-weighted stock on the index, slipped 0.9 percent to 39.10 reais, while cable TV and Internet firm Globo Cabo fell 4.7 percent to 1.81 reais. 

 Bovespa data showed 549 million reais ($279 million) of shares changed hands, slightly below November's 558 million reais daily average. 

 ($1=1.97 reais). 

Document lba0000020010821dwc60b81w
?
 

 U.S. mortgage debt gains, refinancing worries lurk. 

 By Richard Leong 
623 words
6 December 2000
21:56
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 (Update market action) 

 NEW YORK, Dec 6 (Reuters) - U.S. mortgage-backed securities (MBS) prices marched higher late on Wednesday as the broader bond market racked up a second straight day of hefty gains on hopes of an interest rate cut and on a sharp decline in stock prices. 

 But analysts warned that a sustained decline in Treasury yields - benchmarks for many U.S. mortgage rates - would hurt the return on MBS because lower interest rates would trigger a wave of mortgage prepayments. 

 Thirty-year MBS were up 6/32 to 19/32, and 15-year issues were 6/32 to 17/32 higher. Lower-coupon MBS outpaced higher coupon cousins, as mortgage debt lagged Treasuries. 

 Ten-year Treasury notes rose 29/32 to 103-9/32 to yield 5.31 percent. The Treasury five-year note was up 14/32 at 102-6/32 to yield 5.24 percent, and the 30-year bond was 1-5/32 higher at 110-21/32 to yield 5.51 percent. 

 MBS and the rest of the bond market built on Tuesday's rally, spurred by comments from Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan who said the robust U.S. economy is losing momentum. On Wednesday, Fed Vice Chairman Roger Ferguson echoed Greenspan's view. 

 The financial markets have interpreted Greenspan's remarks as a sign that the Fed may drop its inflation warning at its next rate policy meeting, which could in turn lead to interest rate cuts next year. 

 In the meantime, the stock market's optimism from Greenspan's comments was erased by a profit warning from Apple Computer Inc., reigniting fears of more weaker corporate results. The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite sagged 93 points, or 3.2 percent, to 2,797, while the blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average slumped 234 points, or 2.2 percent, to 10,664. 

 Lower rates are typically good news for bonds, but a rapid decline in rates hurt negatively convexed products like MBS because the underlying loans that support the securities are repaid faster than expected, and investors are forced to reinvest their money at lower rates. 

 In its weekly report, the Mortgage Bankers Association of America reported that its seasonally adjusted refinance index rose 15.2 percent to 663.9 for the week ended Dec. 1 from the prior week's 576.4. 

 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter (MSDW) recommended cutting its two percent overweight in MBS to neutral. At a monthly portfolio strategy call on Wednesday, MSDW mortgage strategist Alec Crawford said, "The potential shift by the Fed has picked up volatility quite a bit, which will eventually be negative for mortgages ." 

 "At the current level of rates, mortgage managers need to protect themselves as the duration of their portfolio declines," said Colin Lundgren, portfolio manager at American Express Asset Management, adding that this usually brings about purchases of intermediate U.S. government debt and agency debt. "Investors have been selling mortgages to buy agencies." 

 Some bond managers remain upbeat on mortgages. They favor lower-coupon and 15-year issues to insulate themselves from refinancing's negative effects. 

 "We have focused nicely on discount mortgage pass-throughs. We own 6.0 and 6.5 percents" said Gary Goodenough, co-head of fixed-income at MacKay-Shields Financial Corp. "We bought 15-year discounts yesterday." 

 Among thirty-year 7.0 percent mortgage-backed securities, Government National Mortgage Association (Ginnie Mae) MBS rose 14/32 to 100-1/4 to yield 7.012 percent. Freddie Mac securities climbed 13/32 to 99-25/32 to yield 7.090 percent, and Fannie Mae MBS were up 15/32 at 99-25/32 to yield 7.056 percent. 

Document lba0000020010821dwc60b74r
?
 

 Bank of America issues  profit warning 

282 words
6 December 2000
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 CHARLOTTE, North Carolina, Dec 6 (AFP) - Bank of America on Wednesday warned that it expected to report lower than expected fourth quarter earnings in response to higher credit costs and sluggish capital market activity. 

 The bank, the second largest in the United States in terms of assets, said net earnings should come to 1.4 billion dollars or between 85 and 90 cents a shares. 

 Wall Street analysts had expected the Bank of America to post quarterly earnings per share of 1.17 dollars. 

 For 2001 the bank foresees earnings per share between 5.10 and 5.20 dollars, compared with market expectations of 5.46 dollars. 

 Bank of America vice chairman and chief executive officer James Hance told an investor conference in New York that the company anticipated fourth quarter net charge-offs and provisions for questionable loans to come to between 1.1-1.2 billion dollars. 

 The bank last month disclosed that one large loan had been placed on non-performing status and that a significant portion would be charged off. 

 The company on Wednesday also said it was experiencing a continuing decline in credit quality. Non-performing assets are now expected to be about 20 percent above the third quarter level. 

 Hance said the bank was now budgeting for significantly higher loan losses and credit costs in 2001.  But he added that it had reserves and capital that combined exceed 50 billion dollars. 

 "We continue to see good momentum in a number of our core product lines," Hance said, with many business lines expected to reach or exceed the company's annual revenue growth target of seven to nine percent. 

 nh/ch 

Document afpr000020010803dwc6054sz
?
 Optimism fuels rise in Asian indexes 

 NICK BEVENS Business Editor 
436 words
6 December 2000
Evening News - Scotland
EENS
1
B8
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 ASIAN stocks rose sharply overnight, led by Sony and other exporters, after US Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan suggested the central bank may cut interest rates to sustain growth in the world's largest market. 

 The Asian continent's key indexes all saw increases - Japan's Nikkei rose 1.3 per cent. Hong Kong's Hang Seng 3.9 per cent and Singapore's Straits Times 1.3 per cent. 

 The US Nasdaq Composite Index of computer-related firms staged its biggest rally ever after Mr Greenspan said the Fed's six interest rate increases since June 1999 has "moderated" growth in the world's largest economy. 

 Partner 

 Japan's Sony, which relies on the US for about a third of its operating profit, gained 4.1 per cent on optimism that lower US rates will boost consumer demand for Japanese products. 

 The US is Japan's biggest trading partner while around an eighth of Japan's manufactured goods are exported. 

 However, some investors remained cautious, after Apple announced it expected to issue a profit warning after the close of US trade. 

 The Nasdaq index gained 274 points - or 10.48 per cent - a much needed turnaround for a market that had lost nearly half its value since March's peak. 

 In addition to the rate cut hints from Mr Greenspan, the markets were also cheered by suggestions that the wrangling over the outcome of the US presidential elections may soon end, and by oil prices hitting a four month low. 

 Mr Greenspan's speech came on the back of growing evidence the US economy is slowing very significantly from the rapid growth rates recorded in past years. 

 That earlier, super-fast growth was regarded by economists and Mr Greenspan as unsustainable - leading to a series of interest rate rises seeking to put the brakes on the economy before inflation reared its head. 

 But in a speech to a bankers' organisation in New York he noted that the slowing down of the economy increased the risk from "untoward events". 

 Investors welcomed the change of tone as implying that rate cuts are now higher up the Fed's agenda than further rises. 

 "This has lifted the stock markets because when interest rates are lowered, business costs are lowered so company profits may rise," said one New York broker. 

 "This helps companies to pay higher dividends to shareholders, while investments that pay interest become less attractive." 

 Nasdaq gains over the past 24 hours were well above previous records - 274 points, beating April 18's 254.41 points rise. 

Document eens000020010805dwc600r3p
?
 

 Nasdaq Loss Widens; Bank Of Amer Credit Concerns Cited 

 By Christine Nuzum and Donna Fuscaldo 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
787 words
6 December 2000
19:49
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- The Nasdaq Composite Index suddenly  doubled its Wednesday decline as Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  said credit losses will affect its earnings. 

 Wednesday afternoon, the financial services giant said it  will post lower-than expected fourth-quarter earnings, adding that credit costs are hurting its performance. 

 Bank of America's warning is fueling fears of wider credit problems and their effect on the economy, said Ian Ainsworth, manager of the Altamira Science and Technology Fund. 

 "The idea that credit losses will increase and put pressure on banks to tighten lending could cause a worse-than-expected economic slowdown," he said. 

 Slower economic growth is generally seen as a barrier to corporate and consumer spending on technology. 

 Recently, the Nasdaq Composite was down 79.25, or 2.7%, to 2810.55. Until early afternoon, its losses had stayed mostly under 1%. 

 However, other market-watchers said that midday downgrades exacerbated worries over the personal computer makers, and other technology industries. PC stocks had a rough Wednesday after Apple Computer Inc. (AAPL) lowered its first-quarter guidance for the second time in the last month. 

 Alan Ackerman, market strategist at Fahnestock & Co., had one company to blame for Wednesday's sell off - Apple. But the news shouldn't have come as such a surprise, he said. Just last week Gateway Inc. (GTW) warned that December earnings wouldn't meet expectations, blaming weaker sales of personal computers during the Thanksgiving shopping week. The Thanksgiving weekend is the first shopping weekend of the holiday season and a good indicator of how sales will be. 

 Ackerman said the sell-off in the Nasdaq picked up steam later in the day because investors saw more analyst downgrades. 

 Apple's rating was cut by J.P. Morgan Securities and Credit Suisse First Boston Wednesday morning. Later in the day, Salomon Smith Barney put out a cautious research note on Intel, saying the fourth quarter is shaping up to be the chipmaker's worst in more than 10 years. 

 Shares of Intel were recently trading down 10%. IBM and Dell Computer Corp. (DELL) also had their EPS views cut by Credit Suisse First Boston. Dell was recently off 12%. 

 Salomon's note on Intel "probably compounded the story," said Ainsworth of the Altamira Science and Technology Fund. 

 The note was out Wednesday morning, but didn't hit the wires until the afternoon, at about the same time that Bank of America issued its profitwarning and the Nasdaq started to nosedive. 

 Ainsworth thinks that technology stocks widened their losses on worries that Bank of America's comments may foreshadow more pervasive credit losses. A tight credit market could hurt technology companies by lowering capital spending, inducing cutbacks in equipment leasing, and by cutting off financing to competitive local exchange carriers and other start-up companies, he said. 

 "Right out of the box you had Circuit City (announce its news) and, combined with Apple's problems, people are starting to question techs again," said Jeff Matthews, general partner at Ram Partners. 

 Earlier Wednesday, Circuit City Stores Inc. said it expects a wider loss than previously anticipated for its Circuit City Group (CC) unit, citing lower than expected gross margins and sales, as well as higher costs related to store remodels in Florida. Shares of Circuit City were recently off 30%. 

 Early in the trading session Wednesday, large-cap tech stocks seemed to be taking most of the beating, while  smaller tech offerings sustained gains from Tuesday's rally. 

 Matthews said it had a lot to do with short covering. "You have a day like yesterday where a lot of shorts got killed and they are covering all of a sudden," he said. "Things like I2 Technologies Inc. (ITWO) and Verisign Inc. (VRSN) are all of a sudden running and those kind of stocks tend to be less driven by fundamentals and more by supply and demand." 

 Short covering is the actual purchase of securities by a short seller to replace those borrowed at the time of the short sale. 

 Ackerman agreed that some small tech companies were doing better than their larger counterparts. For instance, Ackerman pointed to Liberate Technologies (LBRT), which is 40% owned by Oracle Corp. (ORCL). The stock was down in the $9 range after reaching a high of $148.50. But for the last three days it has traded up. "Some of the individual issues that were hit hard are coming back a bit based on better expectations," he added. 

 -By Christine Nuzum, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5172 

 -By Donna Fuscaldo, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5253 

Document dj00000020010805dwc604m1k
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Merrill Says VerticalNet May See Softer Demand 

1,675 words
6 December 2000
15:49
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:48 (Dow Jones) VerticalNet (VERT) dropped 15% after Merrill Lynch
analyst Edward McCabe cut his long-term rating on the stock to
accumulate from buy. McCabe expressed concern that VerticalNet's
electronics exchange business, called NECX, may face tough times as
demand softens for semiconductors, computer products and electronic
components. VerticalNet operates 50 online business-to-business trading
communities. (RAS)



10:42 (Dow Jones) IPE Jan. Brent plummets to an intraday low of $26.80
after Nymex open. "We're under renewed pressure from New York as a
resolution to the Iraq issue looks close," says broker. Most funds have
already left the market. Brent seen very oversold, but selloff gaining
its own momentum. Jan. Brent now down 94c to $26.85. (SMF)



10:33 (Dow Jones) WorldCom's (WCOM) deal to acquire Intermedia (ICIX)
for its valuable webhosting business DIGEX (DIGX) will likely be "done
as advertised," says Salomon's Jack Grubman. "While ICIX is a
well-documented basketcase, the reality is that DIGEX is a crown jewel,
and we think the virtue of having control of DIGX as soon as possible
dramatically outweighs any slight cut in the equity value paid for ICIX
that WCOM might get by recutting the deal." (JAW)



10:24 (Dow Jones) CBOT chairman election results may be available on
the early side today, compared with 1998 when the results weren't
available until late in the evening. Results this time could be out as
early as 4:30 p.m. CST, exchange official says, as only one race to
count. (DMR)



10:18 (Dow Jones) Jefferies pounding the table on Network Associates
(NETA), which has slumped about 40% since Nov. 1 on speculation it will
be removed from the Nasdaq 100 index and worries about a
pre-announcement. Analyst Richard Williams says it's unclear whether it
will be dropped from the Nasdaq 100, and while such a move would force
indexers to sell, it would simply make for a nice buying opportunity. He
also sees no evidence of a fourth-quarter shortfall. (MLP)



10:11 (Dow Jones) Dec. Nasdaq loses ground, falling from early gains
and taking down Dec. S&Ps. "We're following Nasdaq, that's for sure,"
one S&P trader says. "If Nasdaq can't regain its footing, we'll be back
down." (DMC)



10:08 (Dow Jones) No IPOs are trading Wednesday, but there has been a
modest gain for buyers of Neurocrine Biosciences's (NBIX) secondary
offering. Robertson Stephens sold 3 million shares at $30 each, and the
shares are now at $31.38, a 4.6% gain. (RJH)



10:06 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch sharply cuts FY2001 earnings forecast
for Canadian broadcaster CanWest Global Communications (CWG), to 5
Canadian cents a share from 25-30 cents, largely due to increased
amortization of broadcast licenses and goodwill related to the
acquisition of Hollinger International (HLR) newspapers. Merrill also
cut its CanWest price target by C$2 to C$3, to C$10 to C$13. (BED)



10:00 (Dow Jones) Corporate bonds in phone sector backing up slightly
in wake of price talk on $3B Verizon (VZ) deal. Verizon 10-year seen
yielding 195 bp over Tsys, about 10-15 bp cheaper than Verizon's
outstanding bonds. (DA)



9:55 (Dow Jones) It's a case where the Old Economy licked the New
Economy. Website IPO.com points out that online postage company E-Stamp
(ESTM), which went public in 1999 during the dot-com boom, now trades at
23 cents a share. That means one share costs less that a U.S. postage
stamp, which sells for 33 cents. (RJH)



9:43 (Dow Jones) For a guy who doesn't have a retail background,
former GE Power head Nardelli is getting a nice welcome from analysts as
he gets set to settle into Home Depot's (HD) top spot. Goldman and UBS
have upgraded the shares, which are up 5%, easily the biggest gainer
among DJIA components. (TG)



9:37 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps and Nasdaq become front month on Thursday,
the CME says, as the market prepares for the Dec. contract's expiration.
(DMC)



9:32 (Dow Jones) Dec. S&Ps and Nasdaq start weaker, finding mild
pressure from overnight weakness. Poor earnings news from Apple weighs
on the market. Floor based traders say they expect profit taking to be
the main feature in early dealings. "Given the gains we saw yesterday,
that's only to be expected," one trader says. (DMC)



9:31 (Dow Jones) Spread widening in ailing chemical sector has created
buying opportunities for bond investors, with Eastman Chemical (EMN) and
Praxair (PX) offering best value, says Bear Stearns. (DA)



9:25 (Dow Jones) David Letterman fans would appreciate Bear Stearns
analyst Andy Neff's take on what Apple Computer (AAPL) could do to
turnaround the company. Addressing the question: What Can Steve Jobs do
here?, Neff said among other things, Apple could go private, open retail
stores, introduce a handheld device, hope the Mac OS X saves the day,
sell the company, or leak that it is in talks to sell and exit hardware
and become a software company. The best option for Jobs, give back the
plane the company gave him in January. (DLF)



9:21 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch analyst Henry Blodget cut his Yahoo
(YHOO) earnings and revenue estimates for the first half of 2001, but
raised his views for the second half. His full-year projections remain
the same, and he kept his "buy" rating on the shares, with a year-end
price target of $60. Blodget says the first quarter will be the
"toughest quarter for online advertising," with overall market growth of
10%. He sees growth accelerating throughout the year. (PDL)



9:17 (Dow Jones) If Tuesday's rally meant the start of something
really meaningful, says John Roque of Arnhold & S. Bleichroeder,
advancing/declining volume would have been a lot more impressive.
Yesterday's 5.5:1 ratio was good, but not great. He says Nasdaq has room
to roam to 3150/3200, but says Nasdaq will retest the 2600/2500 area.
"We just think that happens later rather than sooner." (TG)



9:07 (Dow Jones) Uncertainty over Viacom's (VIA) asbestos liability,
stemming from its discontinued operation Westinghouse, has Bear Stearns
cautious on the company. Viacom bonds widened 50-68 bp over last 2
weeks. (DA)



9:03 (Dow Jones) Dan Niles of Lehman Brothers says Apple's (AAPL)
"monstrous" shortfall is largely industry related, with some poor
product positioning as well. Niles remains cautious on the stock given
what he sees as increasingly difficult PC environment. (TG)



8:55 (Dow Jones) Some Treasury participants are warning that there
could be a bit of profit taking in the market today after the solid run
Tuesday, and technical indications point to an overbought market. Still,
some argue, it's likely to take some surprise number, most likely from
Friday's jobs report, to put in play the next big market move. (MSD)



8:48 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD and USD/JPY are stable after downgrade of
third quarter U.S. productivity. EUR/USD is at $0.8833 while USD/JPY is
at Y110.79. (CSE)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Consider this stat, courtesy of Jeff deGraaf at
Lehman: of the 20 largest one-day percentage gains on Nasdaq over the
past 20 years, a remarkable 12 have occurred since the March 2000 peak.
"Big momentum days are often counter-trend in nature," he says.
Dismissing stampede momentum as reactionary when it is genuine change in
market dynamics can be disasterous, but he doesn't believe we're out of
the woods yet. (TG)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Tuesday's wildfire rally aside, the market
downturn/slower economy is showing up in ad trends. We've seen it on the
Internet, with Doubleclick (DCLK) having to lay off staff, and it's
happening in print, too, as a warning from Dow Jones (DJ) shows. DJ, the
publisher of this newswire, says ad linage at The Wall Street Journal
was off 11.9% in Nov., cause for the company to revise 4Q estimates to
83-86c vs. First Call 92c. Expect Other publishers to see ad softening,
too. We'll hear from the big ones later when they present at media
confabs in NYC today. (GC)



8:36 (Dow Jones) The downward revision in third-quarter production is
having little immediate effect on the Treasurys curve, after the
market's very solid gains yesterday. The 10-year note is up 4/32 to
yield 5.41%. For many traders, the data may be old news after
Greenspan's dovish talk Tuesday. (MSD)



8:34 (Dow Jones) Nonfarm productivity growth in 3Q was revised to an
annual rate of 3.3% from an initial estimate of 3.8% and unit labor cost
- the difference between hourly compensation and productivity - was
revised to 2.9% from 2.5%. These are both slightly adverse, though
productivity growth is well in excess of the 1973-95 trend. Unit labor
cost is a bit high for comfort. (JM)



8:30 (Dow Jones) It looks like stocks will take a bit of a breather
early, though that's not too troubling given Tuesday's record-filled
session. What would be more irksome is a bigger selloff that serves to
delegitimize those big gains. Apple Computer (AAPL) isn't helping, off
big time after hours on the heels of another weak outlook. Circuit City
(CC) this morning came out with some less-than-inspiring numbers. Big
Hewlett-Packard (HWP) meeting this morning, Beige Book released later.
As for the market, from a technical slant the intermediate trend remains
down, despite Tuesday's great gains. To change that, it's going to take
some follow through. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc604lht
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Brent Off Big, Hits Intraday Low 

1,613 words
6 December 2000
15:44
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:42 (Dow Jones) IPE Jan. Brent plummets to an intraday low of $26.80
after Nymex open. "We're under renewed pressure from New York as a
resolution to the Iraq issue looks close," says broker. Most funds have
already left the market. Brent seen very oversold, but selloff gaining
its own momentum. Jan. Brent now down 94c to $26.85. (SMF)



10:33 (Dow Jones) WorldCom's (WCOM) deal to acquire Intermedia (ICIX)
for its valuable webhosting business DIGEX (DIGX) will likely be "done
as advertised," says Salomon's Jack Grubman. "While ICIX is a
well-documented basketcase, the reality is that DIGEX is a crown jewel,
and we think the virtue of having control of DIGX as soon as possible
dramatically outweighs any slight cut in the equity value paid for ICIX
that WCOM might get by recutting the deal." (JAW)



10:24 (Dow Jones) CBOT chairman election results may be available on
the early side today, compared with 1998 when the results weren't
available until late in the evening. Results this time could be out as
early as 4:30 p.m. CST, exchange official says, as only one race to
count. (DMR)



10:18 (Dow Jones) Jefferies pounding the table on Network Associates
(NETA), which has slumped about 40% since Nov. 1 on speculation it will
be removed from the Nasdaq 100 index and worries about a
pre-announcement. Analyst Richard Williams says it's unclear whether it
will be dropped from the Nasdaq 100, and while such a move would force
indexers to sell, it would simply make for a nice buying opportunity. He
also sees no evidence of a fourth-quarter shortfall. (MLP)



10:11 (Dow Jones) Dec. Nasdaq loses ground, falling from early gains
and taking down Dec. S&Ps. "We're following Nasdaq, that's for sure,"
one S&P trader says. "If Nasdaq can't regain its footing, we'll be back
down." (DMC)



10:08 (Dow Jones) No IPOs are trading Wednesday, but there has been a
modest gain for buyers of Neurocrine Biosciences's (NBIX) secondary
offering. Robertson Stephens sold 3 million shares at $30 each, and the
shares are now at $31.38, a 4.6% gain. (RJH)



10:06 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch sharply cuts FY2001 earnings forecast
for Canadian broadcaster CanWest Global Communications (CWG), to 5
Canadian cents a share from 25-30 cents, largely due to increased
amortization of broadcast licenses and goodwill related to the
acquisition of Hollinger International (HLR) newspapers. Merrill also
cut its CanWest price target by C$2 to C$3, to C$10 to C$13. (BED)



10:00 (Dow Jones) Corporate bonds in phone sector backing up slightly
in wake of price talk on $3B Verizon (VZ) deal. Verizon 10-year seen
yielding 195 bp over Tsys, about 10-15 bp cheaper than Verizon's
outstanding bonds. (DA)



9:55 (Dow Jones) It's a case where the Old Economy licked the New
Economy. Website IPO.com points out that online postage company E-Stamp
(ESTM), which went public in 1999 during the dot-com boom, now trades at
23 cents a share. That means one share costs less that a U.S. postage
stamp, which sells for 33 cents. (RJH)



9:43 (Dow Jones) For a guy who doesn't have a retail background,
former GE Power head Nardelli is getting a nice welcome from analysts as
he gets set to settle into Home Depot's (HD) top spot. Goldman and UBS
have upgraded the shares, which are up 5%, easily the biggest gainer
among DJIA components. (TG)



9:37 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps and Nasdaq become front month on Thursday,
the CME says, as the market prepares for the Dec. contract's expiration.
(DMC)



9:32 (Dow Jones) Dec. S&Ps and Nasdaq start weaker, finding mild
pressure from overnight weakness. Poor earnings news from Apple weighs
on the market. Floor based traders say they expect profit taking to be
the main feature in early dealings. "Given the gains we saw yesterday,
that's only to be expected," one trader says. (DMC)



9:31 (Dow Jones) Spread widening in ailing chemical sector has created
buying opportunities for bond investors, with Eastman Chemical (EMN) and
Praxair (PX) offering best value, says Bear Stearns. (DA)



9:25 (Dow Jones) David Letterman fans would appreciate Bear Stearns
analyst Andy Neff's take on what Apple Computer (AAPL) could do to
turnaround the company. Addressing the question: What Can Steve Jobs do
here?, Neff said among other things, Apple could go private, open retail
stores, introduce a handheld device, hope the Mac OS X saves the day,
sell the company, or leak that it is in talks to sell and exit hardware
and become a software company. The best option for Jobs, give back the
plane the company gave him in January. (DLF)



9:21 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch analyst Henry Blodget cut his Yahoo
(YHOO) earnings and revenue estimates for the first half of 2001, but
raised his views for the second half. His full-year projections remain
the same, and he kept his "buy" rating on the shares, with a year-end
price target of $60. Blodget says the first quarter will be the
"toughest quarter for online advertising," with overall market growth of
10%. He sees growth accelerating throughout the year. (PDL)



9:17 (Dow Jones) If Tuesday's rally meant the start of something
really meaningful, says John Roque of Arnhold & S. Bleichroeder,
advancing/declining volume would have been a lot more impressive.
Yesterday's 5.5:1 ratio was good, but not great. He says Nasdaq has room
to roam to 3150/3200, but says Nasdaq will retest the 2600/2500 area.
"We just think that happens later rather than sooner." (TG)



9:07 (Dow Jones) Uncertainty over Viacom's (VIA) asbestos liability,
stemming from its discontinued operation Westinghouse, has Bear Stearns
cautious on the company. Viacom bonds widened 50-68 bp over last 2
weeks. (DA)



9:03 (Dow Jones) Dan Niles of Lehman Brothers says Apple's (AAPL)
"monstrous" shortfall is largely industry related, with some poor
product positioning as well. Niles remains cautious on the stock given
what he sees as increasingly difficult PC environment. (TG)



8:55 (Dow Jones) Some Treasury participants are warning that there
could be a bit of profit taking in the market today after the solid run
Tuesday, and technical indications point to an overbought market. Still,
some argue, it's likely to take some surprise number, most likely from
Friday's jobs report, to put in play the next big market move. (MSD)



8:48 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD and USD/JPY are stable after downgrade of
third quarter U.S. productivity. EUR/USD is at $0.8833 while USD/JPY is
at Y110.79. (CSE)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Consider this stat, courtesy of Jeff deGraaf at
Lehman: of the 20 largest one-day percentage gains on Nasdaq over the
past 20 years, a remarkable 12 have occurred since the March 2000 peak.
"Big momentum days are often counter-trend in nature," he says.
Dismissing stampede momentum as reactionary when it is genuine change in
market dynamics can be disasterous, but he doesn't believe we're out of
the woods yet. (TG)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Tuesday's wildfire rally aside, the market
downturn/slower economy is showing up in ad trends. We've seen it on the
Internet, with Doubleclick (DCLK) having to lay off staff, and it's
happening in print, too, as a warning from Dow Jones (DJ) shows. DJ, the
publisher of this newswire, says ad linage at The Wall Street Journal
was off 11.9% in Nov., cause for the company to revise 4Q estimates to
83-86c vs. First Call 92c. Expect Other publishers to see ad softening,
too. We'll hear from the big ones later when they present at media
confabs in NYC today. (GC)



8:36 (Dow Jones) The downward revision in third-quarter production is
having little immediate effect on the Treasurys curve, after the
market's very solid gains yesterday. The 10-year note is up 4/32 to
yield 5.41%. For many traders, the data may be old news after
Greenspan's dovish talk Tuesday. (MSD)



8:34 (Dow Jones) Nonfarm productivity growth in 3Q was revised to an
annual rate of 3.3% from an initial estimate of 3.8% and unit labor cost
- the difference between hourly compensation and productivity - was
revised to 2.9% from 2.5%. These are both slightly adverse, though
productivity growth is well in excess of the 1973-95 trend. Unit labor
cost is a bit high for comfort. (JM)



8:30 (Dow Jones) It looks like stocks will take a bit of a breather
early, though that's not too troubling given Tuesday's record-filled
session. What would be more irksome is a bigger selloff that serves to
delegitimize those big gains. Apple Computer (AAPL) isn't helping, off
big time after hours on the heels of another weak outlook. Circuit City
(CC) this morning came out with some less-than-inspiring numbers. Big
Hewlett-Packard (HWP) meeting this morning, Beige Book released later.
As for the market, from a technical slant the intermediate trend remains
down, despite Tuesday's great gains. To change that, it's going to take
some follow through. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc604lhk
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Worth It For WorldCom To Do Intermedia Deal 

1,552 words
6 December 2000
15:34
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:33 (Dow Jones) WorldCom's (WCOM) deal to acquire Intermedia (ICIX)
for its valuable webhosting business DIGEX (DIGX) will likely be "done
as advertised," says Salomon's Jack Grubman. "While ICIX is a
well-documented basketcase, the reality is that DIGEX is a crown jewel,
and we think the virtue of having control of DIGX as soon as possible
dramatically outweighs any slight cut in the equity value paid for ICIX
that WCOM might get by recutting the deal." (JAW)



10:24 (Dow Jones) CBOT chairman election results may be available on
the early side today, compared with 1998 when the results weren't
available until late in the evening. Results this time could be out as
early as 4:30 p.m. CST, exchange official says, as only one race to
count. (DMR)



10:18 (Dow Jones) Jefferies pounding the table on Network Associates
(NETA), which has slumped about 40% since Nov. 1 on speculation it will
be removed from the Nasdaq 100 index and worries about a
pre-announcement. Analyst Richard Williams says it's unclear whether it
will be dropped from the Nasdaq 100, and while such a move would force
indexers to sell, it would simply make for a nice buying opportunity. He
also sees no evidence of a fourth-quarter shortfall. (MLP)



10:11 (Dow Jones) Dec. Nasdaq loses ground, falling from early gains
and taking down Dec. S&Ps. "We're following Nasdaq, that's for sure,"
one S&P trader says. "If Nasdaq can't regain its footing, we'll be back
down." (DMC)



10:08 (Dow Jones) No IPOs are trading Wednesday, but there has been a
modest gain for buyers of Neurocrine Biosciences's (NBIX) secondary
offering. Robertson Stephens sold 3 million shares at $30 each, and the
shares are now at $31.38, a 4.6% gain. (RJH)



10:06 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch sharply cuts FY2001 earnings forecast
for Canadian broadcaster CanWest Global Communications (CWG), to 5
Canadian cents a share from 25-30 cents, largely due to increased
amortization of broadcast licenses and goodwill related to the
acquisition of Hollinger International (HLR) newspapers. Merrill also
cut its CanWest price target by C$2 to C$3, to C$10 to C$13. (BED)



10:00 (Dow Jones) Corporate bonds in phone sector backing up slightly
in wake of price talk on $3B Verizon (VZ) deal. Verizon 10-year seen
yielding 195 bp over Tsys, about 10-15 bp cheaper than Verizon's
outstanding bonds. (DA)



9:55 (Dow Jones) It's a case where the Old Economy licked the New
Economy. Website IPO.com points out that online postage company E-Stamp
(ESTM), which went public in 1999 during the dot-com boom, now trades at
23 cents a share. That means one share costs less that a U.S. postage
stamp, which sells for 33 cents. (RJH)



9:43 (Dow Jones) For a guy who doesn't have a retail background,
former GE Power head Nardelli is getting a nice welcome from analysts as
he gets set to settle into Home Depot's (HD) top spot. Goldman and UBS
have upgraded the shares, which are up 5%, easily the biggest gainer
among DJIA components. (TG)



9:37 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps and Nasdaq become front month on Thursday,
the CME says, as the market prepares for the Dec. contract's expiration.
(DMC)



9:32 (Dow Jones) Dec. S&Ps and Nasdaq start weaker, finding mild
pressure from overnight weakness. Poor earnings news from Apple weighs
on the market. Floor based traders say they expect profit taking to be
the main feature in early dealings. "Given the gains we saw yesterday,
that's only to be expected," one trader says. (DMC)



9:31 (Dow Jones) Spread widening in ailing chemical sector has created
buying opportunities for bond investors, with Eastman Chemical (EMN) and
Praxair (PX) offering best value, says Bear Stearns. (DA)



9:25 (Dow Jones) David Letterman fans would appreciate Bear Stearns
analyst Andy Neff's take on what Apple Computer (AAPL) could do to
turnaround the company. Addressing the question: What Can Steve Jobs do
here?, Neff said among other things, Apple could go private, open retail
stores, introduce a handheld device, hope the Mac OS X saves the day,
sell the company, or leak that it is in talks to sell and exit hardware
and become a software company. The best option for Jobs, give back the
plane the company gave him in January. (DLF)



9:21 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch analyst Henry Blodget cut his Yahoo
(YHOO) earnings and revenue estimates for the first half of 2001, but
raised his views for the second half. His full-year projections remain
the same, and he kept his "buy" rating on the shares, with a year-end
price target of $60. Blodget says the first quarter will be the
"toughest quarter for online advertising," with overall market growth of
10%. He sees growth accelerating throughout the year. (PDL)



9:17 (Dow Jones) If Tuesday's rally meant the start of something
really meaningful, says John Roque of Arnhold & S. Bleichroeder,
advancing/declining volume would have been a lot more impressive.
Yesterday's 5.5:1 ratio was good, but not great. He says Nasdaq has room
to roam to 3150/3200, but says Nasdaq will retest the 2600/2500 area.
"We just think that happens later rather than sooner." (TG)



9:07 (Dow Jones) Uncertainty over Viacom's (VIA) asbestos liability,
stemming from its discontinued operation Westinghouse, has Bear Stearns
cautious on the company. Viacom bonds widened 50-68 bp over last 2
weeks. (DA)



9:03 (Dow Jones) Dan Niles of Lehman Brothers says Apple's (AAPL)
"monstrous" shortfall is largely industry related, with some poor
product positioning as well. Niles remains cautious on the stock given
what he sees as increasingly difficult PC environment. (TG)



8:55 (Dow Jones) Some Treasury participants are warning that there
could be a bit of profit taking in the market today after the solid run
Tuesday, and technical indications point to an overbought market. Still,
some argue, it's likely to take some surprise number, most likely from
Friday's jobs report, to put in play the next big market move. (MSD)



8:48 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD and USD/JPY are stable after downgrade of
third quarter U.S. productivity. EUR/USD is at $0.8833 while USD/JPY is
at Y110.79. (CSE)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Consider this stat, courtesy of Jeff deGraaf at
Lehman: of the 20 largest one-day percentage gains on Nasdaq over the
past 20 years, a remarkable 12 have occurred since the March 2000 peak.
"Big momentum days are often counter-trend in nature," he says.
Dismissing stampede momentum as reactionary when it is genuine change in
market dynamics can be disasterous, but he doesn't believe we're out of
the woods yet. (TG)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Tuesday's wildfire rally aside, the market
downturn/slower economy is showing up in ad trends. We've seen it on the
Internet, with Doubleclick (DCLK) having to lay off staff, and it's
happening in print, too, as a warning from Dow Jones (DJ) shows. DJ, the
publisher of this newswire, says ad linage at The Wall Street Journal
was off 11.9% in Nov., cause for the company to revise 4Q estimates to
83-86c vs. First Call 92c. Expect Other publishers to see ad softening,
too. We'll hear from the big ones later when they present at media
confabs in NYC today. (GC)



8:36 (Dow Jones) The downward revision in third-quarter production is
having little immediate effect on the Treasurys curve, after the
market's very solid gains yesterday. The 10-year note is up 4/32 to
yield 5.41%. For many traders, the data may be old news after
Greenspan's dovish talk Tuesday. (MSD)



8:34 (Dow Jones) Nonfarm productivity growth in 3Q was revised to an
annual rate of 3.3% from an initial estimate of 3.8% and unit labor cost
- the difference between hourly compensation and productivity - was
revised to 2.9% from 2.5%. These are both slightly adverse, though
productivity growth is well in excess of the 1973-95 trend. Unit labor
cost is a bit high for comfort. (JM)



8:30 (Dow Jones) It looks like stocks will take a bit of a breather
early, though that's not too troubling given Tuesday's record-filled
session. What would be more irksome is a bigger selloff that serves to
delegitimize those big gains. Apple Computer (AAPL) isn't helping, off
big time after hours on the heels of another weak outlook. Circuit City
(CC) this morning came out with some less-than-inspiring numbers. Big
Hewlett-Packard (HWP) meeting this morning, Beige Book released later.
As for the market, from a technical slant the intermediate trend remains
down, despite Tuesday's great gains. To change that, it's going to take
some follow through. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc604lhh
?
 

 MARKET TALK: CBOT Election Results Won't Take a Month 

1,471 words
6 December 2000
15:24
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:24 (Dow Jones) CBOT chairman election results may be available on
the early side today, compared with 1998 when the results weren't
available until late in the evening. Results this time could be out as
early as 4:30 p.m. CST, exchange official says, as only one race to
count. (DMR)



10:18 (Dow Jones) Jefferies pounding the table on Network Associates
(NETA), which has slumped about 40% since Nov. 1 on speculation it will
be removed from the Nasdaq 100 index and worries about a
pre-announcement. Analyst Richard Williams says it's unclear whether it
will be dropped from the Nasdaq 100, and while such a move would force
indexers to sell, it would simply make for a nice buying opportunity. He
also sees no evidence of a fourth-quarter shortfall. (MLP)



10:11 (Dow Jones) Dec. Nasdaq loses ground, falling from early gains
and taking down Dec. S&Ps. "We're following Nasdaq, that's for sure,"
one S&P trader says. "If Nasdaq can't regain its footing, we'll be back
down." (DMC)



10:08 (Dow Jones) No IPOs are trading Wednesday, but there has been a
modest gain for buyers of Neurocrine Biosciences's (NBIX) secondary
offering. Robertson Stephens sold 3 million shares at $30 each, and the
shares are now at $31.38, a 4.6% gain. (RJH)



10:06 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch sharply cuts FY2001 earnings forecast
for Canadian broadcaster CanWest Global Communications (CWG), to 5
Canadian cents a share from 25-30 cents, largely due to increased
amortization of broadcast licenses and goodwill related to the
acquisition of Hollinger International (HLR) newspapers. Merrill also
cut its CanWest price target by C$2 to C$3, to C$10 to C$13. (BED)



10:00 (Dow Jones) Corporate bonds in phone sector backing up slightly
in wake of price talk on $3B Verizon (VZ) deal. Verizon 10-year seen
yielding 195 bp over Tsys, about 10-15 bp cheaper than Verizon's
outstanding bonds. (DA)



9:55 (Dow Jones) It's a case where the Old Economy licked the New
Economy. Website IPO.com points out that online postage company E-Stamp
(ESTM), which went public in 1999 during the dot-com boom, now trades at
23 cents a share. That means one share costs less that a U.S. postage
stamp, which sells for 33 cents. (RJH)



9:43 (Dow Jones) For a guy who doesn't have a retail background,
former GE Power head Nardelli is getting a nice welcome from analysts as
he gets set to settle into Home Depot's (HD) top spot. Goldman and UBS
have upgraded the shares, which are up 5%, easily the biggest gainer
among DJIA components. (TG)



9:37 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps and Nasdaq become front month on Thursday,
the CME says, as the market prepares for the Dec. contract's expiration.
(DMC)



9:32 (Dow Jones) Dec. S&Ps and Nasdaq start weaker, finding mild
pressure from overnight weakness. Poor earnings news from Apple weighs
on the market. Floor based traders say they expect profit taking to be
the main feature in early dealings. "Given the gains we saw yesterday,
that's only to be expected," one trader says. (DMC)



9:31 (Dow Jones) Spread widening in ailing chemical sector has created
buying opportunities for bond investors, with Eastman Chemical (EMN) and
Praxair (PX) offering best value, says Bear Stearns. (DA)



9:25 (Dow Jones) David Letterman fans would appreciate Bear Stearns
analyst Andy Neff's take on what Apple Computer (AAPL) could do to
turnaround the company. Addressing the question: What Can Steve Jobs do
here?, Neff said among other things, Apple could go private, open retail
stores, introduce a handheld device, hope the Mac OS X saves the day,
sell the company, or leak that it is in talks to sell and exit hardware
and become a software company. The best option for Jobs, give back the
plane the company gave him in January. (DLF)



9:21 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch analyst Henry Blodget cut his Yahoo
(YHOO) earnings and revenue estimates for the first half of 2001, but
raised his views for the second half. His full-year projections remain
the same, and he kept his "buy" rating on the shares, with a year-end
price target of $60. Blodget says the first quarter will be the
"toughest quarter for online advertising," with overall market growth of
10%. He sees growth accelerating throughout the year. (PDL)



9:17 (Dow Jones) If Tuesday's rally meant the start of something
really meaningful, says John Roque of Arnhold & S. Bleichroeder,
advancing/declining volume would have been a lot more impressive.
Yesterday's 5.5:1 ratio was good, but not great. He says Nasdaq has room
to roam to 3150/3200, but says Nasdaq will retest the 2600/2500 area.
"We just think that happens later rather than sooner." (TG)



9:07 (Dow Jones) Uncertainty over Viacom's (VIA) asbestos liability,
stemming from its discontinued operation Westinghouse, has Bear Stearns
cautious on the company. Viacom bonds widened 50-68 bp over last 2
weeks. (DA)



9:03 (Dow Jones) Dan Niles of Lehman Brothers says Apple's (AAPL)
"monstrous" shortfall is largely industry related, with some poor
product positioning as well. Niles remains cautious on the stock given
what he sees as increasingly difficult PC environment. (TG)



8:55 (Dow Jones) Some Treasury participants are warning that there
could be a bit of profit taking in the market today after the solid run
Tuesday, and technical indications point to an overbought market. Still,
some argue, it's likely to take some surprise number, most likely from
Friday's jobs report, to put in play the next big market move. (MSD)



8:48 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD and USD/JPY are stable after downgrade of
third quarter U.S. productivity. EUR/USD is at $0.8833 while USD/JPY is
at Y110.79. (CSE)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Consider this stat, courtesy of Jeff deGraaf at
Lehman: of the 20 largest one-day percentage gains on Nasdaq over the
past 20 years, a remarkable 12 have occurred since the March 2000 peak.
"Big momentum days are often counter-trend in nature," he says.
Dismissing stampede momentum as reactionary when it is genuine change in
market dynamics can be disasterous, but he doesn't believe we're out of
the woods yet. (TG)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Tuesday's wildfire rally aside, the market
downturn/slower economy is showing up in ad trends. We've seen it on the
Internet, with Doubleclick (DCLK) having to lay off staff, and it's
happening in print, too, as a warning from Dow Jones (DJ) shows. DJ, the
publisher of this newswire, says ad linage at The Wall Street Journal
was off 11.9% in Nov., cause for the company to revise 4Q estimates to
83-86c vs. First Call 92c. Expect Other publishers to see ad softening,
too. We'll hear from the big ones later when they present at media
confabs in NYC today. (GC)



8:36 (Dow Jones) The downward revision in third-quarter production is
having little immediate effect on the Treasurys curve, after the
market's very solid gains yesterday. The 10-year note is up 4/32 to
yield 5.41%. For many traders, the data may be old news after
Greenspan's dovish talk Tuesday. (MSD)



8:34 (Dow Jones) Nonfarm productivity growth in 3Q was revised to an
annual rate of 3.3% from an initial estimate of 3.8% and unit labor cost
- the difference between hourly compensation and productivity - was
revised to 2.9% from 2.5%. These are both slightly adverse, though
productivity growth is well in excess of the 1973-95 trend. Unit labor
cost is a bit high for comfort. (JM)



8:30 (Dow Jones) It looks like stocks will take a bit of a breather
early, though that's not too troubling given Tuesday's record-filled
session. What would be more irksome is a bigger selloff that serves to
delegitimize those big gains. Apple Computer (AAPL) isn't helping, off
big time after hours on the heels of another weak outlook. Circuit City
(CC) this morning came out with some less-than-inspiring numbers. Big
Hewlett-Packard (HWP) meeting this morning, Beige Book released later.
As for the market, from a technical slant the intermediate trend remains
down, despite Tuesday's great gains. To change that, it's going to take
some follow through. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc604lgk
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Jefferies Not Buying Talk Of NETA Shortfall 

1,416 words
6 December 2000
15:18
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:18 (Dow Jones) Jefferies pounding the table on Network Associates
(NETA), which has slumped about 40% since Nov. 1 on speculation it will
be removed from the Nasdaq 100 index and worries about a
pre-announcement. Analyst Richard Williams says it's unclear whether it
will be dropped from the Nasdaq 100, and while such a move would force
indexers to sell, it would simply make for a nice buying opportunity. He
also sees no evidence of a fourth-quarter shortfall. (MLP)



10:11 (Dow Jones) Dec. Nasdaq loses ground, falling from early gains
and taking down Dec. S&Ps. "We're following Nasdaq, that's for sure,"
one S&P trader says. "If Nasdaq can't regain its footing, we'll be back
down." (DMC)



10:08 (Dow Jones) No IPOs are trading Wednesday, but there has been a
modest gain for buyers of Neurocrine Biosciences's (NBIX) secondary
offering. Robertson Stephens sold 3 million shares at $30 each, and the
shares are now at $31.38, a 4.6% gain. (RJH)



10:06 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch sharply cuts FY2001 earnings forecast
for Canadian broadcaster CanWest Global Communications (CWG), to 5
Canadian cents a share from 25-30 cents, largely due to increased
amortization of broadcast licenses and goodwill related to the
acquisition of Hollinger International (HLR) newspapers. Merrill also
cut its CanWest price target by C$2 to C$3, to C$10 to C$13. (BED)



10:00 (Dow Jones) Corporate bonds in phone sector backing up slightly
in wake of price talk on $3B Verizon (VZ) deal. Verizon 10-year seen
yielding 195 bp over Tsys, about 10-15 bp cheaper than Verizon's
outstanding bonds. (DA)



9:55 (Dow Jones) It's a case where the Old Economy licked the New
Economy. Website IPO.com points out that online postage company E-Stamp
(ESTM), which went public in 1999 during the dot-com boom, now trades at
23 cents a share. That means one share costs less that a U.S. postage
stamp, which sells for 33 cents. (RJH)



9:43 (Dow Jones) For a guy who doesn't have a retail background,
former GE Power head Nardelli is getting a nice welcome from analysts as
he gets set to settle into Home Depot's (HD) top spot. Goldman and UBS
have upgraded the shares, which are up 5%, easily the biggest gainer
among DJIA components. (TG)



9:37 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps and Nasdaq become front month on Thursday,
the CME says, as the market prepares for the Dec. contract's expiration.
(DMC)



9:32 (Dow Jones) Dec. S&Ps and Nasdaq start weaker, finding mild
pressure from overnight weakness. Poor earnings news from Apple weighs
on the market. Floor based traders say they expect profit taking to be
the main feature in early dealings. "Given the gains we saw yesterday,
that's only to be expected," one trader says. (DMC)



9:31 (Dow Jones) Spread widening in ailing chemical sector has created
buying opportunities for bond investors, with Eastman Chemical (EMN) and
Praxair (PX) offering best value, says Bear Stearns. (DA)



9:25 (Dow Jones) David Letterman fans would appreciate Bear Stearns
analyst Andy Neff's take on what Apple Computer (AAPL) could do to
turnaround the company. Addressing the question: What Can Steve Jobs do
here?, Neff said among other things, Apple could go private, open retail
stores, introduce a handheld device, hope the Mac OS X saves the day,
sell the company, or leak that it is in talks to sell and exit hardware
and become a software company. The best option for Jobs, give back the
plane the company gave him in January. (DLF)



9:21 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch analyst Henry Blodget cut his Yahoo
(YHOO) earnings and revenue estimates for the first half of 2001, but
raised his views for the second half. His full-year projections remain
the same, and he kept his "buy" rating on the shares, with a year-end
price target of $60. Blodget says the first quarter will be the
"toughest quarter for online advertising," with overall market growth of
10%. He sees growth accelerating throughout the year. (PDL)



9:17 (Dow Jones) If Tuesday's rally meant the start of something
really meaningful, says John Roque of Arnhold & S. Bleichroeder,
advancing/declining volume would have been a lot more impressive.
Yesterday's 5.5:1 ratio was good, but not great. He says Nasdaq has room
to roam to 3150/3200, but says Nasdaq will retest the 2600/2500 area.
"We just think that happens later rather than sooner." (TG)



9:07 (Dow Jones) Uncertainty over Viacom's (VIA) asbestos liability,
stemming from its discontinued operation Westinghouse, has Bear Stearns
cautious on the company. Viacom bonds widened 50-68 bp over last 2
weeks. (DA)



9:03 (Dow Jones) Dan Niles of Lehman Brothers says Apple's (AAPL)
"monstrous" shortfall is largely industry related, with some poor
product positioning as well. Niles remains cautious on the stock given
what he sees as increasingly difficult PC environment. (TG)



8:55 (Dow Jones) Some Treasury participants are warning that there
could be a bit of profit taking in the market today after the solid run
Tuesday, and technical indications point to an overbought market. Still,
some argue, it's likely to take some surprise number, most likely from
Friday's jobs report, to put in play the next big market move. (MSD)



8:48 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD and USD/JPY are stable after downgrade of
third quarter U.S. productivity. EUR/USD is at $0.8833 while USD/JPY is
at Y110.79. (CSE)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Consider this stat, courtesy of Jeff deGraaf at
Lehman: of the 20 largest one-day percentage gains on Nasdaq over the
past 20 years, a remarkable 12 have occurred since the March 2000 peak.
"Big momentum days are often counter-trend in nature," he says.
Dismissing stampede momentum as reactionary when it is genuine change in
market dynamics can be disasterous, but he doesn't believe we're out of
the woods yet. (TG)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Tuesday's wildfire rally aside, the market
downturn/slower economy is showing up in ad trends. We've seen it on the
Internet, with Doubleclick (DCLK) having to lay off staff, and it's
happening in print, too, as a warning from Dow Jones (DJ) shows. DJ, the
publisher of this newswire, says ad linage at The Wall Street Journal
was off 11.9% in Nov., cause for the company to revise 4Q estimates to
83-86c vs. First Call 92c. Expect Other publishers to see ad softening,
too. We'll hear from the big ones later when they present at media
confabs in NYC today. (GC)



8:36 (Dow Jones) The downward revision in third-quarter production is
having little immediate effect on the Treasurys curve, after the
market's very solid gains yesterday. The 10-year note is up 4/32 to
yield 5.41%. For many traders, the data may be old news after
Greenspan's dovish talk Tuesday. (MSD)



8:34 (Dow Jones) Nonfarm productivity growth in 3Q was revised to an
annual rate of 3.3% from an initial estimate of 3.8% and unit labor cost
- the difference between hourly compensation and productivity - was
revised to 2.9% from 2.5%. These are both slightly adverse, though
productivity growth is well in excess of the 1973-95 trend. Unit labor
cost is a bit high for comfort. (JM)



8:30 (Dow Jones) It looks like stocks will take a bit of a breather
early, though that's not too troubling given Tuesday's record-filled
session. What would be more irksome is a bigger selloff that serves to
delegitimize those big gains. Apple Computer (AAPL) isn't helping, off
big time after hours on the heels of another weak outlook. Circuit City
(CC) this morning came out with some less-than-inspiring numbers. Big
Hewlett-Packard (HWP) meeting this morning, Beige Book released later.
As for the market, from a technical slant the intermediate trend remains
down, despite Tuesday's great gains. To change that, it's going to take
some follow through. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc604lg6
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Dec. S&Ps Drop On Nasdaq Weakness 

1,334 words
6 December 2000
15:11
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:11 (Dow Jones) Dec. Nasdaq loses ground, falling from early gains
and taking down Dec. S&Ps. "We're following Nasdaq, that's for sure,"
one S&P trader says. "If Nasdaq can't regain its footing, we'll be back
down." (DMC)



10:08 (Dow Jones) No IPOs are trading Wednesday, but there has been a
modest gain for buyers of Neurocrine Biosciences's (NBIX) secondary
offering. Robertson Stephens sold 3 million shares at $30 each, and the
shares are now at $31.38, a 4.6% gain. (RJH)



10:06 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch sharply cuts FY2001 earnings forecast
for Canadian broadcaster CanWest Global Communications (CWG), to 5
Canadian cents a share from 25-30 cents, largely due to increased
amortization of broadcast licenses and goodwill related to the
acquisition of Hollinger International (HLR) newspapers. Merrill also
cut its CanWest price target by C$2 to C$3, to C$10 to C$13. (BED)



10:00 (Dow Jones) Corporate bonds in phone sector backing up slightly
in wake of price talk on $3B Verizon (VZ) deal. Verizon 10-year seen
yielding 195 bp over Tsys, about 10-15 bp cheaper than Verizon's
outstanding bonds. (DA)



9:55 (Dow Jones) It's a case where the Old Economy licked the New
Economy. Website IPO.com points out that online postage company E-Stamp
(ESTM), which went public in 1999 during the dot-com boom, now trades at
23 cents a share. That means one share costs less that a U.S. postage
stamp, which sells for 33 cents. (RJH)



9:43 (Dow Jones) For a guy who doesn't have a retail background,
former GE Power head Nardelli is getting a nice welcome from analysts as
he gets set to settle into Home Depot's (HD) top spot. Goldman and UBS
have upgraded the shares, which are up 5%, easily the biggest gainer
among DJIA components. (TG)



9:37 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps and Nasdaq become front month on Thursday,
the CME says, as the market prepares for the Dec. contract's expiration.
(DMC)



9:32 (Dow Jones) Dec. S&Ps and Nasdaq start weaker, finding mild
pressure from overnight weakness. Poor earnings news from Apple weighs
on the market. Floor based traders say they expect profit taking to be
the main feature in early dealings. "Given the gains we saw yesterday,
that's only to be expected," one trader says. (DMC)



9:31 (Dow Jones) Spread widening in ailing chemical sector has created
buying opportunities for bond investors, with Eastman Chemical (EMN) and
Praxair (PX) offering best value, says Bear Stearns. (DA)



9:25 (Dow Jones) David Letterman fans would appreciate Bear Stearns
analyst Andy Neff's take on what Apple Computer (AAPL) could do to
turnaround the company. Addressing the question: What Can Steve Jobs do
here?, Neff said among other things, Apple could go private, open retail
stores, introduce a handheld device, hope the Mac OS X saves the day,
sell the company, or leak that it is in talks to sell and exit hardware
and become a software company. The best option for Jobs, give back the
plane the company gave him in January. (DLF)



9:21 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch analyst Henry Blodget cut his Yahoo
(YHOO) earnings and revenue estimates for the first half of 2001, but
raised his views for the second half. His full-year projections remain
the same, and he kept his "buy" rating on the shares, with a year-end
price target of $60. Blodget says the first quarter will be the
"toughest quarter for online advertising," with overall market growth of
10%. He sees growth accelerating throughout the year. (PDL)



9:17 (Dow Jones) If Tuesday's rally meant the start of something
really meaningful, says John Roque of Arnhold & S. Bleichroeder,
advancing/declining volume would have been a lot more impressive.
Yesterday's 5.5:1 ratio was good, but not great. He says Nasdaq has room
to roam to 3150/3200, but says Nasdaq will retest the 2600/2500 area.
"We just think that happens later rather than sooner." (TG)



9:07 (Dow Jones) Uncertainty over Viacom's (VIA) asbestos liability,
stemming from its discontinued operation Westinghouse, has Bear Stearns
cautious on the company. Viacom bonds widened 50-68 bp over last 2
weeks. (DA)



9:03 (Dow Jones) Dan Niles of Lehman Brothers says Apple's (AAPL)
"monstrous" shortfall is largely industry related, with some poor
product positioning as well. Niles remains cautious on the stock given
what he sees as increasingly difficult PC environment. (TG)



8:55 (Dow Jones) Some Treasury participants are warning that there
could be a bit of profit taking in the market today after the solid run
Tuesday, and technical indications point to an overbought market. Still,
some argue, it's likely to take some surprise number, most likely from
Friday's jobs report, to put in play the next big market move. (MSD)



8:48 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD and USD/JPY are stable after downgrade of
third quarter U.S. productivity. EUR/USD is at $0.8833 while USD/JPY is
at Y110.79. (CSE)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Consider this stat, courtesy of Jeff deGraaf at
Lehman: of the 20 largest one-day percentage gains on Nasdaq over the
past 20 years, a remarkable 12 have occurred since the March 2000 peak.
"Big momentum days are often counter-trend in nature," he says.
Dismissing stampede momentum as reactionary when it is genuine change in
market dynamics can be disasterous, but he doesn't believe we're out of
the woods yet. (TG)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Tuesday's wildfire rally aside, the market
downturn/slower economy is showing up in ad trends. We've seen it on the
Internet, with Doubleclick (DCLK) having to lay off staff, and it's
happening in print, too, as a warning from Dow Jones (DJ) shows. DJ, the
publisher of this newswire, says ad linage at The Wall Street Journal
was off 11.9% in Nov., cause for the company to revise 4Q estimates to
83-86c vs. First Call 92c. Expect Other publishers to see ad softening,
too. We'll hear from the big ones later when they present at media
confabs in NYC today. (GC)



8:36 (Dow Jones) The downward revision in third-quarter production is
having little immediate effect on the Treasurys curve, after the
market's very solid gains yesterday. The 10-year note is up 4/32 to
yield 5.41%. For many traders, the data may be old news after
Greenspan's dovish talk Tuesday. (MSD)



8:34 (Dow Jones) Nonfarm productivity growth in 3Q was revised to an
annual rate of 3.3% from an initial estimate of 3.8% and unit labor cost
- the difference between hourly compensation and productivity - was
revised to 2.9% from 2.5%. These are both slightly adverse, though
productivity growth is well in excess of the 1973-95 trend. Unit labor
cost is a bit high for comfort. (JM)



8:30 (Dow Jones) It looks like stocks will take a bit of a breather
early, though that's not too troubling given Tuesday's record-filled
session. What would be more irksome is a bigger selloff that serves to
delegitimize those big gains. Apple Computer (AAPL) isn't helping, off
big time after hours on the heels of another weak outlook. Circuit City
(CC) this morning came out with some less-than-inspiring numbers. Big
Hewlett-Packard (HWP) meeting this morning, Beige Book released later.
As for the market, from a technical slant the intermediate trend remains
down, despite Tuesday's great gains. To change that, it's going to take
some follow through. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc604lfl
?
 

 MARKET TALK: No IPO Action Weds., But Secondary Looks Good 

1,288 words
6 December 2000
15:09
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:08 (Dow Jones) No IPOs are trading Wednesday, but there has been a
modest gain for buyers of Neurocrine Biosciences's (NBIX) secondary
offering. Robertson Stephens sold 3 million shares at $30 each, and the
shares are now at $31.38, a 4.6% gain. (RJH)



10:06 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch sharply cuts FY2001 earnings forecast
for Canadian broadcaster CanWest Global Communications (CWG), to 5
Canadian cents a share from 25-30 cents, largely due to increased
amortization of broadcast licenses and goodwill related to the
acquisition of Hollinger International (HLR) newspapers. Merrill also
cut its CanWest price target by C$2 to C$3, to C$10 to C$13. (BED)



10:00 (Dow Jones) Corporate bonds in phone sector backing up slightly
in wake of price talk on $3B Verizon (VZ) deal. Verizon 10-year seen
yielding 195 bp over Tsys, about 10-15 bp cheaper than Verizon's
outstanding bonds. (DA)



9:55 (Dow Jones) It's a case where the Old Economy licked the New
Economy. Website IPO.com points out that online postage company E-Stamp
(ESTM), which went public in 1999 during the dot-com boom, now trades at
23 cents a share. That means one share costs less that a U.S. postage
stamp, which sells for 33 cents. (RJH)



9:43 (Dow Jones) For a guy who doesn't have a retail background,
former GE Power head Nardelli is getting a nice welcome from analysts as
he gets set to settle into Home Depot's (HD) top spot. Goldman and UBS
have upgraded the shares, which are up 5%, easily the biggest gainer
among DJIA components. (TG)



9:37 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps and Nasdaq become front month on Thursday,
the CME says, as the market prepares for the Dec. contract's expiration.
(DMC)



9:32 (Dow Jones) Dec. S&Ps and Nasdaq start weaker, finding mild
pressure from overnight weakness. Poor earnings news from Apple weighs
on the market. Floor based traders say they expect profit taking to be
the main feature in early dealings. "Given the gains we saw yesterday,
that's only to be expected," one trader says. (DMC)



9:31 (Dow Jones) Spread widening in ailing chemical sector has created
buying opportunities for bond investors, with Eastman Chemical (EMN) and
Praxair (PX) offering best value, says Bear Stearns. (DA)



9:25 (Dow Jones) David Letterman fans would appreciate Bear Stearns
analyst Andy Neff's take on what Apple Computer (AAPL) could do to
turnaround the company. Addressing the question: What Can Steve Jobs do
here?, Neff said among other things, Apple could go private, open retail
stores, introduce a handheld device, hope the Mac OS X saves the day,
sell the company, or leak that it is in talks to sell and exit hardware
and become a software company. The best option for Jobs, give back the
plane the company gave him in January. (DLF)



9:21 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch analyst Henry Blodget cut his Yahoo
(YHOO) earnings and revenue estimates for the first half of 2001, but
raised his views for the second half. His full-year projections remain
the same, and he kept his "buy" rating on the shares, with a year-end
price target of $60. Blodget says the first quarter will be the
"toughest quarter for online advertising," with overall market growth of
10%. He sees growth accelerating throughout the year. (PDL)



9:17 (Dow Jones) If Tuesday's rally meant the start of something
really meaningful, says John Roque of Arnhold & S. Bleichroeder,
advancing/declining volume would have been a lot more impressive.
Yesterday's 5.5:1 ratio was good, but not great. He says Nasdaq has room
to roam to 3150/3200, but says Nasdaq will retest the 2600/2500 area.
"We just think that happens later rather than sooner." (TG)



9:07 (Dow Jones) Uncertainty over Viacom's (VIA) asbestos liability,
stemming from its discontinued operation Westinghouse, has Bear Stearns
cautious on the company. Viacom bonds widened 50-68 bp over last 2
weeks. (DA)



9:03 (Dow Jones) Dan Niles of Lehman Brothers says Apple's (AAPL)
"monstrous" shortfall is largely industry related, with some poor
product positioning as well. Niles remains cautious on the stock given
what he sees as increasingly difficult PC environment. (TG)



8:55 (Dow Jones) Some Treasury participants are warning that there
could be a bit of profit taking in the market today after the solid run
Tuesday, and technical indications point to an overbought market. Still,
some argue, it's likely to take some surprise number, most likely from
Friday's jobs report, to put in play the next big market move. (MSD)



8:48 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD and USD/JPY are stable after downgrade of
third quarter U.S. productivity. EUR/USD is at $0.8833 while USD/JPY is
at Y110.79. (CSE)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Consider this stat, courtesy of Jeff deGraaf at
Lehman: of the 20 largest one-day percentage gains on Nasdaq over the
past 20 years, a remarkable 12 have occurred since the March 2000 peak.
"Big momentum days are often counter-trend in nature," he says.
Dismissing stampede momentum as reactionary when it is genuine change in
market dynamics can be disasterous, but he doesn't believe we're out of
the woods yet. (TG)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Tuesday's wildfire rally aside, the market
downturn/slower economy is showing up in ad trends. We've seen it on the
Internet, with Doubleclick (DCLK) having to lay off staff, and it's
happening in print, too, as a warning from Dow Jones (DJ) shows. DJ, the
publisher of this newswire, says ad linage at The Wall Street Journal
was off 11.9% in Nov., cause for the company to revise 4Q estimates to
83-86c vs. First Call 92c. Expect Other publishers to see ad softening,
too. We'll hear from the big ones later when they present at media
confabs in NYC today. (GC)



8:36 (Dow Jones) The downward revision in third-quarter production is
having little immediate effect on the Treasurys curve, after the
market's very solid gains yesterday. The 10-year note is up 4/32 to
yield 5.41%. For many traders, the data may be old news after
Greenspan's dovish talk Tuesday. (MSD)



8:34 (Dow Jones) Nonfarm productivity growth in 3Q was revised to an
annual rate of 3.3% from an initial estimate of 3.8% and unit labor cost
- the difference between hourly compensation and productivity - was
revised to 2.9% from 2.5%. These are both slightly adverse, though
productivity growth is well in excess of the 1973-95 trend. Unit labor
cost is a bit high for comfort. (JM)



8:30 (Dow Jones) It looks like stocks will take a bit of a breather
early, though that's not too troubling given Tuesday's record-filled
session. What would be more irksome is a bigger selloff that serves to
delegitimize those big gains. Apple Computer (AAPL) isn't helping, off
big time after hours on the heels of another weak outlook. Circuit City
(CC) this morning came out with some less-than-inspiring numbers. Big
Hewlett-Packard (HWP) meeting this morning, Beige Book released later.
As for the market, from a technical slant the intermediate trend remains
down, despite Tuesday's great gains. To change that, it's going to take
some follow through. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc604lfh
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Merrill Cuts Numbers On CanWest Global 

1,239 words
6 December 2000
15:06
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:06 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch sharply cuts FY2001 earnings forecast
for Canadian broadcaster CanWest Global Communications (CWG), to 5
Canadian cents a share from 25-30 cents, largely due to increased
amortization of broadcast licenses and goodwill related to the
acquisition of Hollinger International (HLR) newspapers. Merrill also
cut its CanWest price target by C$2 to C$3, to C$10 to C$13. (BED)



10:00 (Dow Jones) Corporate bonds in phone sector backing up slightly
in wake of price talk on $3B Verizon (VZ) deal. Verizon 10-year seen
yielding 195 bp over Tsys, about 10-15 bp cheaper than Verizon's
outstanding bonds. (DA)



9:55 (Dow Jones) It's a case where the Old Economy licked the New
Economy. Website IPO.com points out that online postage company E-Stamp
(ESTM), which went public in 1999 during the dot-com boom, now trades at
23 cents a share. That means one share costs less that a U.S. postage
stamp, which sells for 33 cents. (RJH)



9:43 (Dow Jones) For a guy who doesn't have a retail background,
former GE Power head Nardelli is getting a nice welcome from analysts as
he gets set to settle into Home Depot's (HD) top spot. Goldman and UBS
have upgraded the shares, which are up 5%, easily the biggest gainer
among DJIA components. (TG)



9:37 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps and Nasdaq become front month on Thursday,
the CME says, as the market prepares for the Dec. contract's expiration.
(DMC)



9:32 (Dow Jones) Dec. S&Ps and Nasdaq start weaker, finding mild
pressure from overnight weakness. Poor earnings news from Apple weighs
on the market. Floor based traders say they expect profit taking to be
the main feature in early dealings. "Given the gains we saw yesterday,
that's only to be expected," one trader says. (DMC)



9:31 (Dow Jones) Spread widening in ailing chemical sector has created
buying opportunities for bond investors, with Eastman Chemical (EMN) and
Praxair (PX) offering best value, says Bear Stearns. (DA)



9:25 (Dow Jones) David Letterman fans would appreciate Bear Stearns
analyst Andy Neff's take on what Apple Computer (AAPL) could do to
turnaround the company. Addressing the question: What Can Steve Jobs do
here?, Neff said among other things, Apple could go private, open retail
stores, introduce a handheld device, hope the Mac OS X saves the day,
sell the company, or leak that it is in talks to sell and exit hardware
and become a software company. The best option for Jobs, give back the
plane the company gave him in January. (DLF)



9:21 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch analyst Henry Blodget cut his Yahoo
(YHOO) earnings and revenue estimates for the first half of 2001, but
raised his views for the second half. His full-year projections remain
the same, and he kept his "buy" rating on the shares, with a year-end
price target of $60. Blodget says the first quarter will be the
"toughest quarter for online advertising," with overall market growth of
10%. He sees growth accelerating throughout the year. (PDL)



9:17 (Dow Jones) If Tuesday's rally meant the start of something
really meaningful, says John Roque of Arnhold & S. Bleichroeder,
advancing/declining volume would have been a lot more impressive.
Yesterday's 5.5:1 ratio was good, but not great. He says Nasdaq has room
to roam to 3150/3200, but says Nasdaq will retest the 2600/2500 area.
"We just think that happens later rather than sooner." (TG)



9:07 (Dow Jones) Uncertainty over Viacom's (VIA) asbestos liability,
stemming from its discontinued operation Westinghouse, has Bear Stearns
cautious on the company. Viacom bonds widened 50-68 bp over last 2
weeks. (DA)



9:03 (Dow Jones) Dan Niles of Lehman Brothers says Apple's (AAPL)
"monstrous" shortfall is largely industry related, with some poor
product positioning as well. Niles remains cautious on the stock given
what he sees as increasingly difficult PC environment. (TG)



8:55 (Dow Jones) Some Treasury participants are warning that there
could be a bit of profit taking in the market today after the solid run
Tuesday, and technical indications point to an overbought market. Still,
some argue, it's likely to take some surprise number, most likely from
Friday's jobs report, to put in play the next big market move. (MSD)



8:48 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD and USD/JPY are stable after downgrade of
third quarter U.S. productivity. EUR/USD is at $0.8833 while USD/JPY is
at Y110.79. (CSE)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Consider this stat, courtesy of Jeff deGraaf at
Lehman: of the 20 largest one-day percentage gains on Nasdaq over the
past 20 years, a remarkable 12 have occurred since the March 2000 peak.
"Big momentum days are often counter-trend in nature," he says.
Dismissing stampede momentum as reactionary when it is genuine change in
market dynamics can be disasterous, but he doesn't believe we're out of
the woods yet. (TG)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Tuesday's wildfire rally aside, the market
downturn/slower economy is showing up in ad trends. We've seen it on the
Internet, with Doubleclick (DCLK) having to lay off staff, and it's
happening in print, too, as a warning from Dow Jones (DJ) shows. DJ, the
publisher of this newswire, says ad linage at The Wall Street Journal
was off 11.9% in Nov., cause for the company to revise 4Q estimates to
83-86c vs. First Call 92c. Expect Other publishers to see ad softening,
too. We'll hear from the big ones later when they present at media
confabs in NYC today. (GC)



8:36 (Dow Jones) The downward revision in third-quarter production is
having little immediate effect on the Treasurys curve, after the
market's very solid gains yesterday. The 10-year note is up 4/32 to
yield 5.41%. For many traders, the data may be old news after
Greenspan's dovish talk Tuesday. (MSD)



8:34 (Dow Jones) Nonfarm productivity growth in 3Q was revised to an
annual rate of 3.3% from an initial estimate of 3.8% and unit labor cost
- the difference between hourly compensation and productivity - was
revised to 2.9% from 2.5%. These are both slightly adverse, though
productivity growth is well in excess of the 1973-95 trend. Unit labor
cost is a bit high for comfort. (JM)



8:30 (Dow Jones) It looks like stocks will take a bit of a breather
early, though that's not too troubling given Tuesday's record-filled
session. What would be more irksome is a bigger selloff that serves to
delegitimize those big gains. Apple Computer (AAPL) isn't helping, off
big time after hours on the heels of another weak outlook. Circuit City
(CC) this morning came out with some less-than-inspiring numbers. Big
Hewlett-Packard (HWP) meeting this morning, Beige Book released later.
As for the market, from a technical slant the intermediate trend remains
down, despite Tuesday's great gains. To change that, it's going to take
some follow through. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc604lf3
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Phone Sector Bonds Back Up On Verizon Talk 

1,174 words
6 December 2000
15:01
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:00 (Dow Jones) Corporate bonds in phone sector backing up slightly
in wake of price talk on $3B Verizon (VZ) deal. Verizon 10-year seen
yielding 195 bp over Tsys, about 10-15 bp cheaper than Verizon's
outstanding bonds. (DA)



9:55 (Dow Jones) It's a case where the Old Economy licked the New
Economy. Website IPO.com points out that online postage company E-Stamp
(ESTM), which went public in 1999 during the dot-com boom, now trades at
23 cents a share. That means one share costs less that a U.S. postage
stamp, which sells for 33 cents. (RJH)



9:43 (Dow Jones) For a guy who doesn't have a retail background,
former GE Power head Nardelli is getting a nice welcome from analysts as
he gets set to settle into Home Depot's (HD) top spot. Goldman and UBS
have upgraded the shares, which are up 5%, easily the biggest gainer
among DJIA components. (TG)



9:37 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps and Nasdaq become front month on Thursday,
the CME says, as the market prepares for the Dec. contract's expiration.
(DMC)



9:32 (Dow Jones) Dec. S&Ps and Nasdaq start weaker, finding mild
pressure from overnight weakness. Poor earnings news from Apple weighs
on the market. Floor based traders say they expect profit taking to be
the main feature in early dealings. "Given the gains we saw yesterday,
that's only to be expected," one trader says. (DMC)



9:31 (Dow Jones) Spread widening in ailing chemical sector has created
buying opportunities for bond investors, with Eastman Chemical (EMN) and
Praxair (PX) offering best value, says Bear Stearns. (DA)



9:25 (Dow Jones) David Letterman fans would appreciate Bear Stearns
analyst Andy Neff's take on what Apple Computer (AAPL) could do to
turnaround the company. Addressing the question: What Can Steve Jobs do
here?, Neff said among other things, Apple could go private, open retail
stores, introduce a handheld device, hope the Mac OS X saves the day,
sell the company, or leak that it is in talks to sell and exit hardware
and become a software company. The best option for Jobs, give back the
plane the company gave him in January. (DLF)



9:21 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch analyst Henry Blodget cut his Yahoo
(YHOO) earnings and revenue estimates for the first half of 2001, but
raised his views for the second half. His full-year projections remain
the same, and he kept his "buy" rating on the shares, with a year-end
price target of $60. Blodget says the first quarter will be the
"toughest quarter for online advertising," with overall market growth of
10%. He sees growth accelerating throughout the year. (PDL)



9:17 (Dow Jones) If Tuesday's rally meant the start of something
really meaningful, says John Roque of Arnhold & S. Bleichroeder,
advancing/declining volume would have been a lot more impressive.
Yesterday's 5.5:1 ratio was good, but not great. He says Nasdaq has room
to roam to 3150/3200, but says Nasdaq will retest the 2600/2500 area.
"We just think that happens later rather than sooner." (TG)



9:07 (Dow Jones) Uncertainty over Viacom's (VIA) asbestos liability,
stemming from its discontinued operation Westinghouse, has Bear Stearns
cautious on the company. Viacom bonds widened 50-68 bp over last 2
weeks. (DA)



9:03 (Dow Jones) Dan Niles of Lehman Brothers says Apple's (AAPL)
"monstrous" shortfall is largely industry related, with some poor
product positioning as well. Niles remains cautious on the stock given
what he sees as increasingly difficult PC environment. (TG)



8:55 (Dow Jones) Some Treasury participants are warning that there
could be a bit of profit taking in the market today after the solid run
Tuesday, and technical indications point to an overbought market. Still,
some argue, it's likely to take some surprise number, most likely from
Friday's jobs report, to put in play the next big market move. (MSD)



8:48 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD and USD/JPY are stable after downgrade of
third quarter U.S. productivity. EUR/USD is at $0.8833 while USD/JPY is
at Y110.79. (CSE)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Consider this stat, courtesy of Jeff deGraaf at
Lehman: of the 20 largest one-day percentage gains on Nasdaq over the
past 20 years, a remarkable 12 have occurred since the March 2000 peak.
"Big momentum days are often counter-trend in nature," he says.
Dismissing stampede momentum as reactionary when it is genuine change in
market dynamics can be disasterous, but he doesn't believe we're out of
the woods yet. (TG)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Tuesday's wildfire rally aside, the market
downturn/slower economy is showing up in ad trends. We've seen it on the
Internet, with Doubleclick (DCLK) having to lay off staff, and it's
happening in print, too, as a warning from Dow Jones (DJ) shows. DJ, the
publisher of this newswire, says ad linage at The Wall Street Journal
was off 11.9% in Nov., cause for the company to revise 4Q estimates to
83-86c vs. First Call 92c. Expect Other publishers to see ad softening,
too. We'll hear from the big ones later when they present at media
confabs in NYC today. (GC)



8:36 (Dow Jones) The downward revision in third-quarter production is
having little immediate effect on the Treasurys curve, after the
market's very solid gains yesterday. The 10-year note is up 4/32 to
yield 5.41%. For many traders, the data may be old news after
Greenspan's dovish talk Tuesday. (MSD)



8:34 (Dow Jones) Nonfarm productivity growth in 3Q was revised to an
annual rate of 3.3% from an initial estimate of 3.8% and unit labor cost
- the difference between hourly compensation and productivity - was
revised to 2.9% from 2.5%. These are both slightly adverse, though
productivity growth is well in excess of the 1973-95 trend. Unit labor
cost is a bit high for comfort. (JM)



8:30 (Dow Jones) It looks like stocks will take a bit of a breather
early, though that's not too troubling given Tuesday's record-filled
session. What would be more irksome is a bigger selloff that serves to
delegitimize those big gains. Apple Computer (AAPL) isn't helping, off
big time after hours on the heels of another weak outlook. Circuit City
(CC) this morning came out with some less-than-inspiring numbers. Big
Hewlett-Packard (HWP) meeting this morning, Beige Book released later.
As for the market, from a technical slant the intermediate trend remains
down, despite Tuesday's great gains. To change that, it's going to take
some follow through. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc604lev
?
 

 MARKET TALK: The Stock And A Dime Will Get You A Stamp 

1,134 words
6 December 2000
14:56
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



9:55 (Dow Jones) It's a case where the Old Economy licked the New
Economy. Website IPO.com points out that online postage company E-Stamp
(ESTM), which went public in 1999 during the dot-com boom, now trades at
23 cents a share. That means one share costs less that a U.S. postage
stamp, which sells for 33 cents. (RJH)



9:43 (Dow Jones) For a guy who doesn't have a retail background,
former GE Power head Nardelli is getting a nice welcome from analysts as
he gets set to settle into Home Depot's (HD) top spot. Goldman and UBS
have upgraded the shares, which are up 5%, easily the biggest gainer
among DJIA components. (TG)



9:37 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps and Nasdaq become front month on Thursday,
the CME says, as the market prepares for the Dec. contract's expiration.
(DMC)



9:32 (Dow Jones) Dec. S&Ps and Nasdaq start weaker, finding mild
pressure from overnight weakness. Poor earnings news from Apple weighs
on the market. Floor based traders say they expect profit taking to be
the main feature in early dealings. "Given the gains we saw yesterday,
that's only to be expected," one trader says. (DMC)



9:31 (Dow Jones) Spread widening in ailing chemical sector has created
buying opportunities for bond investors, with Eastman Chemical (EMN) and
Praxair (PX) offering best value, says Bear Stearns. (DA)



9:25 (Dow Jones) David Letterman fans would appreciate Bear Stearns
analyst Andy Neff's take on what Apple Computer (AAPL) could do to
turnaround the company. Addressing the question: What Can Steve Jobs do
here?, Neff said among other things, Apple could go private, open retail
stores, introduce a handheld device, hope the Mac OS X saves the day,
sell the company, or leak that it is in talks to sell and exit hardware
and become a software company. The best option for Jobs, give back the
plane the company gave him in January. (DLF)



9:21 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch analyst Henry Blodget cut his Yahoo
(YHOO) earnings and revenue estimates for the first half of 2001, but
raised his views for the second half. His full-year projections remain
the same, and he kept his "buy" rating on the shares, with a year-end
price target of $60. Blodget says the first quarter will be the
"toughest quarter for online advertising," with overall market growth of
10%. He sees growth accelerating throughout the year. (PDL)



9:17 (Dow Jones) If Tuesday's rally meant the start of something
really meaningful, says John Roque of Arnhold & S. Bleichroeder,
advancing/declining volume would have been a lot more impressive.
Yesterday's 5.5:1 ratio was good, but not great. He says Nasdaq has room
to roam to 3150/3200, but says Nasdaq will retest the 2600/2500 area.
"We just think that happens later rather than sooner." (TG)



9:07 (Dow Jones) Uncertainty over Viacom's (VIA) asbestos liability,
stemming from its discontinued operation Westinghouse, has Bear Stearns
cautious on the company. Viacom bonds widened 50-68 bp over last 2
weeks. (DA)



9:03 (Dow Jones) Dan Niles of Lehman Brothers says Apple's (AAPL)
"monstrous" shortfall is largely industry related, with some poor
product positioning as well. Niles remains cautious on the stock given
what he sees as increasingly difficult PC environment. (TG)



8:55 (Dow Jones) Some Treasury participants are warning that there
could be a bit of profit taking in the market today after the solid run
Tuesday, and technical indications point to an overbought market. Still,
some argue, it's likely to take some surprise number, most likely from
Friday's jobs report, to put in play the next big market move. (MSD)



8:48 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD and USD/JPY are stable after downgrade of
third quarter U.S. productivity. EUR/USD is at $0.8833 while USD/JPY is
at Y110.79. (CSE)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Consider this stat, courtesy of Jeff deGraaf at
Lehman: of the 20 largest one-day percentage gains on Nasdaq over the
past 20 years, a remarkable 12 have occurred since the March 2000 peak.
"Big momentum days are often counter-trend in nature," he says.
Dismissing stampede momentum as reactionary when it is genuine change in
market dynamics can be disasterous, but he doesn't believe we're out of
the woods yet. (TG)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Tuesday's wildfire rally aside, the market
downturn/slower economy is showing up in ad trends. We've seen it on the
Internet, with Doubleclick (DCLK) having to lay off staff, and it's
happening in print, too, as a warning from Dow Jones (DJ) shows. DJ, the
publisher of this newswire, says ad linage at The Wall Street Journal
was off 11.9% in Nov., cause for the company to revise 4Q estimates to
83-86c vs. First Call 92c. Expect Other publishers to see ad softening,
too. We'll hear from the big ones later when they present at media
confabs in NYC today. (GC)



8:36 (Dow Jones) The downward revision in third-quarter production is
having little immediate effect on the Treasurys curve, after the
market's very solid gains yesterday. The 10-year note is up 4/32 to
yield 5.41%. For many traders, the data may be old news after
Greenspan's dovish talk Tuesday. (MSD)



8:34 (Dow Jones) Nonfarm productivity growth in 3Q was revised to an
annual rate of 3.3% from an initial estimate of 3.8% and unit labor cost
- the difference between hourly compensation and productivity - was
revised to 2.9% from 2.5%. These are both slightly adverse, though
productivity growth is well in excess of the 1973-95 trend. Unit labor
cost is a bit high for comfort. (JM)



8:30 (Dow Jones) It looks like stocks will take a bit of a breather
early, though that's not too troubling given Tuesday's record-filled
session. What would be more irksome is a bigger selloff that serves to
delegitimize those big gains. Apple Computer (AAPL) isn't helping, off
big time after hours on the heels of another weak outlook. Circuit City
(CC) this morning came out with some less-than-inspiring numbers. Big
Hewlett-Packard (HWP) meeting this morning, Beige Book released later.
As for the market, from a technical slant the intermediate trend remains
down, despite Tuesday's great gains. To change that, it's going to take
some follow through. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc604lec
?
 

 MARKET TALK: March S&Ps, Nasdaq Front Month Thursday 

1,011 words
6 December 2000
14:37
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



09:37 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps and Nasdaq become front month on
Thursday, the CME says, as the market prepares for the Dec. contract's
expiration. (DMC)



9:32 (Dow Jones) Dec. S&Ps and Nasdaq start weaker, finding mild
pressure from overnight weakness. Poor earnings news from Apple weighs
on the market. Floor based traders say they expect profit taking to be
the main feature in early dealings. "Given the gains we saw yesterday,
that's only to be expected," one trader says. (DMC)



9:31 (Dow Jones) Spread widening in ailing chemical sector has created
buying opportunities for bond investors, with Eastman Chemical (EMN) and
Praxair (PX) offering best value, says Bear Stearns. (DA)



9:25 (Dow Jones) David Letterman fans would appreciate Bear Stearns
analyst Andy Neff's take on what Apple Computer (AAPL) could do to
turnaround the company. Addressing the question: What Can Steve Jobs do
here?, Neff said among other things, Apple could go private, open retail
stores, introduce a handheld device, hope the Mac OS X saves the day,
sell the company, or leak that it is in talks to sell and exit hardware
and become a software company. The best option for Jobs, give back the
plane the company gave him in January. (DLF)



9:21 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch analyst Henry Blodget cut his Yahoo
(YHOO) earnings and revenue estimates for the first half of 2001, but
raised his views for the second half. His full-year projections remain
the same, and he kept his "buy" rating on the shares, with a year-end
price target of $60. Blodget says the first quarter will be the
"toughest quarter for online advertising," with overall market growth of
10%. He sees growth accelerating throughout the year. (PDL)



9:17 (Dow Jones) If Tuesday's rally meant the start of something
really meaningful, says John Roque of Arnhold & S. Bleichroeder,
advancing/declining volume would have been a lot more impressive.
Yesterday's 5.5:1 ratio was good, but not great. He says Nasdaq has room
to roam to 3150/3200, but says Nasdaq will retest the 2600/2500 area.
"We just think that happens later rather than sooner." (TG)



9:07 (Dow Jones) Uncertainty over Viacom's (VIA) asbestos liability,
stemming from its discontinued operation Westinghouse, has Bear Stearns
cautious on the company. Viacom bonds widened 50-68 bp over last 2
weeks. (DA)



9:03 (Dow Jones) Dan Niles of Lehman Brothers says Apple's (AAPL)
"monstrous" shortfall is largely industry related, with some poor
product positioning as well. Niles remains cautious on the stock given
what he sees as increasingly difficult PC environment. (TG)



8:55 (Dow Jones) Some Treasury participants are warning that there
could be a bit of profit taking in the market today after the solid run
Tuesday, and technical indications point to an overbought market. Still,
some argue, it's likely to take some surprise number, most likely from
Friday's jobs report, to put in play the next big market move. (MSD)



8:48 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD and USD/JPY are stable after downgrade of
third quarter U.S. productivity. EUR/USD is at $0.8833 while USD/JPY is
at Y110.79. (CSE)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Consider this stat, courtesy of Jeff deGraaf at
Lehman: of the 20 largest one-day percentage gains on Nasdaq over the
past 20 years, a remarkable 12 have occurred since the March 2000 peak.
"Big momentum days are often counter-trend in nature," he says.
Dismissing stampede momentum as reactionary when it is genuine change in
market dynamics can be disasterous, but he doesn't believe we're out of
the woods yet. (TG)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Tuesday's wildfire rally aside, the market
downturn/slower economy is showing up in ad trends. We've seen it on the
Internet, with Doubleclick (DCLK) having to lay off staff, and it's
happening in print, too, as a warning from Dow Jones (DJ) shows. DJ, the
publisher of this newswire, says ad linage at The Wall Street Journal
was off 11.9% in Nov., cause for the company to revise 4Q estimates to
83-86c vs. First Call 92c. Expect Other publishers to see ad softening,
too. We'll hear from the big ones later when they present at media
confabs in NYC today. (GC)



8:36 (Dow Jones) The downward revision in third-quarter production is
having little immediate effect on the Treasurys curve, after the
market's very solid gains yesterday. The 10-year note is up 4/32 to
yield 5.41%. For many traders, the data may be old news after
Greenspan's dovish talk Tuesday. (MSD)



8:34 (Dow Jones) Nonfarm productivity growth in 3Q was revised to an
annual rate of 3.3% from an initial estimate of 3.8% and unit labor cost
- the difference between hourly compensation and productivity - was
revised to 2.9% from 2.5%. These are both slightly adverse, though
productivity growth is well in excess of the 1973-95 trend. Unit labor
cost is a bit high for comfort. (JM)



8:30 (Dow Jones) It looks like stocks will take a bit of a breather
early, though that's not too troubling given Tuesday's record-filled
session. What would be more irksome is a bigger selloff that serves to
delegitimize those big gains. Apple Computer (AAPL) isn't helping, off
big time after hours on the heels of another weak outlook. Circuit City
(CC) this morning came out with some less-than-inspiring numbers. Big
Hewlett-Packard (HWP) meeting this morning, Beige Book released later.
As for the market, from a technical slant the intermediate trend remains
down, despite Tuesday's great gains. To change that, it's going to take
some follow through. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc604ldm
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Stock Futures Drop Early On Profit Taking 

981 words
6 December 2000
14:32
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



9:32 (Dow Jones) Dec. S&Ps and Nasdaq start weaker, finding mild
pressure from overnight weakness. Poor earnings news from Apple weighs
on the market. Floor based traders say they expect profit taking to be
the main feature in early dealings. "Given the gains we saw yesterday,
that's only to be expected," one trader says. (DMC)



9:31 (Dow Jones) Spread widening in ailing chemical sector has created
buying opportunities for bond investors, with Eastman Chemical (EMN) and
Praxair (PX) offering best value, says Bear Stearns. (DA)



9:25 (Dow Jones) David Letterman fans would appreciate Bear Stearns
analyst Andy Neff's take on what Apple Computer (AAPL) could do to
turnaround the company. Addressing the question: What Can Steve Jobs do
here?, Neff said among other things, Apple could go private, open retail
stores, introduce a handheld device, hope the Mac OS X saves the day,
sell the company, or leak that it is in talks to sell and exit hardware
and become a software company. The best option for Jobs, give back the
plane the company gave him in January. (DLF)



9:21 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch analyst Henry Blodget cut his Yahoo
(YHOO) earnings and revenue estimates for the first half of 2001, but
raised his views for the second half. His full-year projections remain
the same, and he kept his "buy" rating on the shares, with a year-end
price target of $60. Blodget says the first quarter will be the
"toughest quarter for online advertising," with overall market growth of
10%. He sees growth accelerating throughout the year. (PDL)



9:17 (Dow Jones) If Tuesday's rally meant the start of something
really meaningful, says John Roque of Arnhold & S. Bleichroeder,
advancing/declining volume would have been a lot more impressive.
Yesterday's 5.5:1 ratio was good, but not great. He says Nasdaq has room
to roam to 3150/3200, but says Nasdaq will retest the 2600/2500 area.
"We just think that happens later rather than sooner." (TG)



9:07 (Dow Jones) Uncertainty over Viacom's (VIA) asbestos liability,
stemming from its discontinued operation Westinghouse, has Bear Stearns
cautious on the company. Viacom bonds widened 50-68 bp over last 2
weeks. (DA)



9:03 (Dow Jones) Dan Niles of Lehman Brothers says Apple's (AAPL)
"monstrous" shortfall is largely industry related, with some poor
product positioning as well. Niles remains cautious on the stock given
what he sees as increasingly difficult PC environment. (TG)



8:55 (Dow Jones) Some Treasury participants are warning that there
could be a bit of profit taking in the market today after the solid run
Tuesday, and technical indications point to an overbought market. Still,
some argue, it's likely to take some surprise number, most likely from
Friday's jobs report, to put in play the next big market move. (MSD)



8:48 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD and USD/JPY are stable after downgrade of
third quarter U.S. productivity. EUR/USD is at $0.8833 while USD/JPY is
at Y110.79. (CSE)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Consider this stat, courtesy of Jeff deGraaf at
Lehman: of the 20 largest one-day percentage gains on Nasdaq over the
past 20 years, a remarkable 12 have occurred since the March 2000 peak.
"Big momentum days are often counter-trend in nature," he says.
Dismissing stampede momentum as reactionary when it is genuine change in
market dynamics can be disasterous, but he doesn't believe we're out of
the woods yet. (TG)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Tuesday's wildfire rally aside, the market
downturn/slower economy is showing up in ad trends. We've seen it on the
Internet, with Doubleclick (DCLK) having to lay off staff, and it's
happening in print, too, as a warning from Dow Jones (DJ) shows. DJ, the
publisher of this newswire, says ad linage at The Wall Street Journal
was off 11.9% in Nov., cause for the company to revise 4Q estimates to
83-86c vs. First Call 92c. Expect Other publishers to see ad softening,
too. We'll hear from the big ones later when they present at media
confabs in NYC today. (GC)



8:36 (Dow Jones) The downward revision in third-quarter production is
having little immediate effect on the Treasurys curve, after the
market's very solid gains yesterday. The 10-year note is up 4/32 to
yield 5.41%. For many traders, the data may be old news after
Greenspan's dovish talk Tuesday. (MSD)



8:34 (Dow Jones) Nonfarm productivity growth in 3Q was revised to an
annual rate of 3.3% from an initial estimate of 3.8% and unit labor cost
- the difference between hourly compensation and productivity - was
revised to 2.9% from 2.5%. These are both slightly adverse, though
productivity growth is well in excess of the 1973-95 trend. Unit labor
cost is a bit high for comfort. (JM)



8:30 (Dow Jones) It looks like stocks will take a bit of a breather
early, though that's not too troubling given Tuesday's record-filled
session. What would be more irksome is a bigger selloff that serves to
delegitimize those big gains. Apple Computer (AAPL) isn't helping, off
big time after hours on the heels of another weak outlook. Circuit City
(CC) this morning came out with some less-than-inspiring numbers. Big
Hewlett-Packard (HWP) meeting this morning, Beige Book released later.
As for the market, from a technical slant the intermediate trend remains
down, despite Tuesday's great gains. To change that, it's going to take
some follow through. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc604ld4
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Buying Chance In Chemical Sector Bonds 

921 words
6 December 2000
14:31
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



9:31 (Dow Jones) Spread widening in ailing chemical sector has created
buying opportunities for bond investors, with Eastman Chemical (EMN) and
Praxair (PX) offering best value, says Bear Stearns. (DA)



9:25 (Dow Jones) David Letterman fans would appreciate Bear Stearns
analyst Andy Neff's take on what Apple Computer (AAPL) could do to
turnaround the company. Addressing the question: What Can Steve Jobs do
here?, Neff said among other things, Apple could go private, open retail
stores, introduce a handheld device, hope the Mac OS X saves the day,
sell the company, or leak that it is in talks to sell and exit hardware
and become a software company. The best option for Jobs, give back the
plane the company gave him in January. (DLF)



9:21 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch analyst Henry Blodget cut his Yahoo
(YHOO) earnings and revenue estimates for the first half of 2001, but
raised his views for the second half. His full-year projections remain
the same, and he kept his "buy" rating on the shares, with a year-end
price target of $60. Blodget says the first quarter will be the
"toughest quarter for online advertising," with overall market growth of
10%. He sees growth accelerating throughout the year. (PDL)



9:17 (Dow Jones) If Tuesday's rally meant the start of something
really meaningful, says John Roque of Arnhold & S. Bleichroeder,
advancing/declining volume would have been a lot more impressive.
Yesterday's 5.5:1 ratio was good, but not great. He says Nasdaq has room
to roam to 3150/3200, but says Nasdaq will retest the 2600/2500 area.
"We just think that happens later rather than sooner." (TG)



9:07 (Dow Jones) Uncertainty over Viacom's (VIA) asbestos liability,
stemming from its discontinued operation Westinghouse, has Bear Stearns
cautious on the company. Viacom bonds widened 50-68 bp over last 2
weeks. (DA)



9:03 (Dow Jones) Dan Niles of Lehman Brothers says Apple's (AAPL)
"monstrous" shortfall is largely industry related, with some poor
product positioning as well. Niles remains cautious on the stock given
what he sees as increasingly difficult PC environment. (TG)



8:55 (Dow Jones) Some Treasury participants are warning that there
could be a bit of profit taking in the market today after the solid run
Tuesday, and technical indications point to an overbought market. Still,
some argue, it's likely to take some surprise number, most likely from
Friday's jobs report, to put in play the next big market move. (MSD)



8:48 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD and USD/JPY are stable after downgrade of
third quarter U.S. productivity. EUR/USD is at $0.8833 while USD/JPY is
at Y110.79. (CSE)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Consider this stat, courtesy of Jeff deGraaf at
Lehman: of the 20 largest one-day percentage gains on Nasdaq over the
past 20 years, a remarkable 12 have occurred since the March 2000 peak.
"Big momentum days are often counter-trend in nature," he says.
Dismissing stampede momentum as reactionary when it is genuine change in
market dynamics can be disasterous, but he doesn't believe we're out of
the woods yet. (TG)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Tuesday's wildfire rally aside, the market
downturn/slower economy is showing up in ad trends. We've seen it on the
Internet, with Doubleclick (DCLK) having to lay off staff, and it's
happening in print, too, as a warning from Dow Jones (DJ) shows. DJ, the
publisher of this newswire, says ad linage at The Wall Street Journal
was off 11.9% in Nov., cause for the company to revise 4Q estimates to
83-86c vs. First Call 92c. Expect Other publishers to see ad softening,
too. We'll hear from the big ones later when they present at media
confabs in NYC today. (GC)



8:36 (Dow Jones) The downward revision in third-quarter production is
having little immediate effect on the Treasurys curve, after the
market's very solid gains yesterday. The 10-year note is up 4/32 to
yield 5.41%. For many traders, the data may be old news after
Greenspan's dovish talk Tuesday. (MSD)



8:34 (Dow Jones) Nonfarm productivity growth in 3Q was revised to an
annual rate of 3.3% from an initial estimate of 3.8% and unit labor cost
- the difference between hourly compensation and productivity - was
revised to 2.9% from 2.5%. These are both slightly adverse, though
productivity growth is well in excess of the 1973-95 trend. Unit labor
cost is a bit high for comfort. (JM)



8:30 (Dow Jones) It looks like stocks will take a bit of a breather
early, though that's not too troubling given Tuesday's record-filled
session. What would be more irksome is a bigger selloff that serves to
delegitimize those big gains. Apple Computer (AAPL) isn't helping, off
big time after hours on the heels of another weak outlook. Circuit City
(CC) this morning came out with some less-than-inspiring numbers. Big
Hewlett-Packard (HWP) meeting this morning, Beige Book released later.
As for the market, from a technical slant the intermediate trend remains
down, despite Tuesday's great gains. To change that, it's going to take
some follow through. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc604lcu
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Blodget Down On Yahoo 1H, Likes 2H 

795 words
6 December 2000
14:22
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



9:21 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch analyst Henry Blodget cut his Yahoo
(YHOO) earnings and revenue estimates for the first half of 2001, but
raised his views for the second half. His full-year projections remain
the same, and he kept his "buy" rating on the shares, with a year-end
price target of $60. Blodget says the first quarter will be the
"toughest quarter for online advertising," with overall market growth of
10%. He sees growth accelerating throughout the year. (PDL)



9:17 (Dow Jones) If Tuesday's rally meant the start of something
really meaningful, says John Roque of Arnhold & S. Bleichroeder,
advancing/declining volume would have been a lot more impressive.
Yesterday's 5.5:1 ratio was good, but not great. He says Nasdaq has room
to roam to 3150/3200, but says Nasdaq will retest the 2600/2500 area.
"We just think that happens later rather than sooner." (TG)



9:07 (Dow Jones) Uncertainty over Viacom's (VIA) asbestos liability,
stemming from its discontinued operation Westinghouse, has Bear Stearns
cautious on the company. Viacom bonds widened 50-68 bp over last 2
weeks. (DA)



9:03 (Dow Jones) Dan Niles of Lehman Brothers says Apple's (AAPL)
"monstrous" shortfall is largely industry related, with some poor
product positioning as well. Niles remains cautious on the stock given
what he sees as increasingly difficult PC environment. (TG)



8:55 (Dow Jones) Some Treasury participants are warning that there
could be a bit of profit taking in the market today after the solid run
Tuesday, and technical indications point to an overbought market. Still,
some argue, it's likely to take some surprise number, most likely from
Friday's jobs report, to put in play the next big market move. (MSD)



8:48 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD and USD/JPY are stable after downgrade of
third quarter U.S. productivity. EUR/USD is at $0.8833 while USD/JPY is
at Y110.79. (CSE)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Consider this stat, courtesy of Jeff deGraaf at
Lehman: of the 20 largest one-day percentage gains on Nasdaq over the
past 20 years, a remarkable 12 have occurred since the March 2000 peak.
"Big momentum days are often counter-trend in nature," he says.
Dismissing stampede momentum as reactionary when it is genuine change in
market dynamics can be disasterous, but he doesn't believe we're out of
the woods yet. (TG)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Tuesday's wildfire rally aside, the market
downturn/slower economy is showing up in ad trends. We've seen it on the
Internet, with Doubleclick (DCLK) having to lay off staff, and it's
happening in print, too, as a warning from Dow Jones (DJ) shows. DJ, the
publisher of this newswire, says ad linage at The Wall Street Journal
was off 11.9% in Nov., cause for the company to revise 4Q estimates to
83-86c vs. First Call 92c. Expect Other publishers to see ad softening,
too. We'll hear from the big ones later when they present at media
confabs in NYC today. (GC)



8:36 (Dow Jones) The downward revision in third-quarter production is
having little immediate effect on the Treasurys curve, after the
market's very solid gains yesterday. The 10-year note is up 4/32 to
yield 5.41%. For many traders, the data may be old news after
Greenspan's dovish talk Tuesday. (MSD)



8:34 (Dow Jones) Nonfarm productivity growth in 3Q was revised to an
annual rate of 3.3% from an initial estimate of 3.8% and unit labor cost
- the difference between hourly compensation and productivity - was
revised to 2.9% from 2.5%. These are both slightly adverse, though
productivity growth is well in excess of the 1973-95 trend. Unit labor
cost is a bit high for comfort. (JM)



8:30 (Dow Jones) It looks like stocks will take a bit of a breather
early, though that's not too troubling given Tuesday's record-filled
session. What would be more irksome is a bigger selloff that serves to
delegitimize those big gains. Apple Computer (AAPL) isn't helping, off
big time after hours on the heels of another weak outlook. Circuit City
(CC) this morning came out with some less-than-inspiring numbers. Big
Hewlett-Packard (HWP) meeting this morning, Beige Book released later.
As for the market, from a technical slant the intermediate trend remains
down, despite Tuesday's great gains. To change that, it's going to take
some follow through. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc604lc0
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Nasdaq Will Retest Lows, Roque Says 

712 words
6 December 2000
14:19
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



9:17 (Dow Jones) If Tuesday's rally meant the start of something
really meaningful, says John Roque of Arnhold & S. Bleichroeder,
advancing/declining volume would have been a lot more impressive.
Yesterday's 5.5:1 ratio was good, but not great. He says Nasdaq has room
to roam to 3150/3200, but says Nasdaq will retest the 2600/2500 area.
"We just think that happens later rather than sooner." (TG)



9:07 (Dow Jones) Uncertainty over Viacom's (VIA) asbestos liability,
stemming from its discontinued operation Westinghouse, has Bear Stearns
cautious on the company. Viacom bonds widened 50-68 bp over last 2
weeks. (DA)



9:03 (Dow Jones) Dan Niles of Lehman Brothers says Apple's (AAPL)
"monstrous" shortfall is largely industry related, with some poor
product positioning as well. Niles remains cautious on the stock given
what he sees as increasingly difficult PC environment. (TG)



8:55 (Dow Jones) Some Treasury participants are warning that there
could be a bit of profit taking in the market today after the solid run
Tuesday, and technical indications point to an overbought market. Still,
some argue, it's likely to take some surprise number, most likely from
Friday's jobs report, to put in play the next big market move. (MSD)



8:48 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD and USD/JPY are stable after downgrade of
third quarter U.S. productivity. EUR/USD is at $0.8833 while USD/JPY is
at Y110.79. (CSE)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Consider this stat, courtesy of Jeff deGraaf at
Lehman: of the 20 largest one-day percentage gains on Nasdaq over the
past 20 years, a remarkable 12 have occurred since the March 2000 peak.
"Big momentum days are often counter-trend in nature," he says.
Dismissing stampede momentum as reactionary when it is genuine change in
market dynamics can be disasterous, but he doesn't believe we're out of
the woods yet. (TG)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Tuesday's wildfire rally aside, the market
downturn/slower economy is showing up in ad trends. We've seen it on the
Internet, with Doubleclick (DCLK) having to lay off staff, and it's
happening in print, too, as a warning from Dow Jones (DJ) shows. DJ, the
publisher of this newswire, says ad linage at The Wall Street Journal
was off 11.9% in Nov., cause for the company to revise 4Q estimates to
83-86c vs. First Call 92c. Expect Other publishers to see ad softening,
too. We'll hear from the big ones later when they present at media
confabs in NYC today. (GC)



8:36 (Dow Jones) The downward revision in third-quarter production is
having little immediate effect on the Treasurys curve, after the
market's very solid gains yesterday. The 10-year note is up 4/32 to
yield 5.41%. For many traders, the data may be old news after
Greenspan's dovish talk Tuesday. (MSD)



8:34 (Dow Jones) Nonfarm productivity growth in 3Q was revised to an
annual rate of 3.3% from an initial estimate of 3.8% and unit labor cost
- the difference between hourly compensation and productivity - was
revised to 2.9% from 2.5%. These are both slightly adverse, though
productivity growth is well in excess of the 1973-95 trend. Unit labor
cost is a bit high for comfort. (JM)



8:30 (Dow Jones) It looks like stocks will take a bit of a breather
early, though that's not too troubling given Tuesday's record-filled
session. What would be more irksome is a bigger selloff that serves to
delegitimize those big gains. Apple Computer (AAPL) isn't helping, off
big time after hours on the heels of another weak outlook. Circuit City
(CC) this morning came out with some less-than-inspiring numbers. Big
Hewlett-Packard (HWP) meeting this morning, Beige Book released later.
As for the market, from a technical slant the intermediate trend remains
down, despite Tuesday's great gains. To change that, it's going to take
some follow through. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc604lbn
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Some Viacom Holders May Not Even Know This 

641 words
6 December 2000
14:08
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



9:07 (Dow Jones) Uncertainty over Viacom's (VIA) asbestos liability,
stemming from its discontinued operation Westinghouse, has Bear Stearns
cautious on the company. Viacom bonds widened 50-68 bp over last 2
weeks. (DA)



9:03 (Dow Jones) Dan Niles of Lehman Brothers says Apple's (AAPL)
"monstrous" shortfall is largely industry related, with some poor
product positioning as well. Niles remains cautious on the stock given
what he sees as increasingly difficult PC environment. (TG)



8:55 (Dow Jones) Some Treasury participants are warning that there
could be a bit of profit taking in the market today after the solid run
Tuesday, and technical indications point to an overbought market. Still,
some argue, it's likely to take some surprise number, most likely from
Friday's jobs report, to put in play the next big market move. (MSD)



8:48 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD and USD/JPY are stable after downgrade of
third quarter U.S. productivity. EUR/USD is at $0.8833 while USD/JPY is
at Y110.79. (CSE)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Consider this stat, courtesy of Jeff deGraaf at
Lehman: of the 20 largest one-day percentage gains on Nasdaq over the
past 20 years, a remarkable 12 have occurred since the March 2000 peak.
"Big momentum days are often counter-trend in nature," he says.
Dismissing stampede momentum as reactionary when it is genuine change in
market dynamics can be disasterous, but he doesn't believe we're out of
the woods yet. (TG)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Tuesday's wildfire rally aside, the market
downturn/slower economy is showing up in ad trends. We've seen it on the
Internet, with Doubleclick (DCLK) having to lay off staff, and it's
happening in print, too, as a warning from Dow Jones (DJ) shows. DJ, the
publisher of this newswire, says ad linage at The Wall Street Journal
was off 11.9% in Nov., cause for the company to revise 4Q estimates to
83-86c vs. First Call 92c. Expect Other publishers to see ad softening,
too. We'll hear from the big ones later when they present at media
confabs in NYC today. (GC)



8:36 (Dow Jones) The downward revision in third-quarter production is
having little immediate effect on the Treasurys curve, after the
market's very solid gains yesterday. The 10-year note is up 4/32 to
yield 5.41%. For many traders, the data may be old news after
Greenspan's dovish talk Tuesday. (MSD)



8:34 (Dow Jones) Nonfarm productivity growth in 3Q was revised to an
annual rate of 3.3% from an initial estimate of 3.8% and unit labor cost
- the difference between hourly compensation and productivity - was
revised to 2.9% from 2.5%. These are both slightly adverse, though
productivity growth is well in excess of the 1973-95 trend. Unit labor
cost is a bit high for comfort. (JM)



8:30 (Dow Jones) It looks like stocks will take a bit of a breather
early, though that's not too troubling given Tuesday's record-filled
session. What would be more irksome is a bigger selloff that serves to
delegitimize those big gains. Apple Computer (AAPL) isn't helping, off
big time after hours on the heels of another weak outlook. Circuit City
(CC) this morning came out with some less-than-inspiring numbers. Big
Hewlett-Packard (HWP) meeting this morning, Beige Book released later.
As for the market, from a technical slant the intermediate trend remains
down, despite Tuesday's great gains. To change that, it's going to take
some follow through. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc604lay
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Lehman's Niles Still Cautious On Apple 

605 words
6 December 2000
14:05
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



9:03 (Dow Jones) Dan Niles of Lehman Brothers says Apple's (AAPL)
"monstrous" shortfall is largely industry related, with some poor
product positioning as well. Niles remains cautious on the stock given
what he sees as increasingly difficult PC environment. (TG)



8:55 (Dow Jones) Some Treasury participants are warning that there
could be a bit of profit taking in the market today after the solid run
Tuesday, and technical indications point to an overbought market. Still,
some argue, it's likely to take some surprise number, most likely from
Friday's jobs report, to put in play the next big market move. (MSD)



8:48 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD and USD/JPY are stable after downgrade of
third quarter U.S. productivity. EUR/USD is at $0.8833 while USD/JPY is
at Y110.79. (CSE)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Consider this stat, courtesy of Jeff deGraaf at
Lehman: of the 20 largest one-day percentage gains on Nasdaq over the
past 20 years, a remarkable 12 have occurred since the March 2000 peak.
"Big momentum days are often counter-trend in nature," he says.
Dismissing stampede momentum as reactionary when it is genuine change in
market dynamics can be disasterous, but he doesn't believe we're out of
the woods yet. (TG)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Tuesday's wildfire rally aside, the market
downturn/slower economy is showing up in ad trends. We've seen it on the
Internet, with Doubleclick (DCLK) having to lay off staff, and it's
happening in print, too, as a warning from Dow Jones (DJ) shows. DJ, the
publisher of this newswire, says ad linage at The Wall Street Journal
was off 11.9% in Nov., cause for the company to revise 4Q estimates to
83-86c vs. First Call 92c. Expect Other publishers to see ad softening,
too. We'll hear from the big ones later when they present at media
confabs in NYC today. (GC)



8:36 (Dow Jones) The downward revision in third-quarter production is
having little immediate effect on the Treasurys curve, after the
market's very solid gains yesterday. The 10-year note is up 4/32 to
yield 5.41%. For many traders, the data may be old news after
Greenspan's dovish talk Tuesday. (MSD)



8:34 (Dow Jones) Nonfarm productivity growth in 3Q was revised to an
annual rate of 3.3% from an initial estimate of 3.8% and unit labor cost
- the difference between hourly compensation and productivity - was
revised to 2.9% from 2.5%. These are both slightly adverse, though
productivity growth is well in excess of the 1973-95 trend. Unit labor
cost is a bit high for comfort. (JM)



8:30 (Dow Jones) It looks like stocks will take a bit of a breather
early, though that's not too troubling given Tuesday's record-filled
session. What would be more irksome is a bigger selloff that serves to
delegitimize those big gains. Apple Computer (AAPL) isn't helping, off
big time after hours on the heels of another weak outlook. Circuit City
(CC) this morning came out with some less-than-inspiring numbers. Big
Hewlett-Packard (HWP) meeting this morning, Beige Book released later.
As for the market, from a technical slant the intermediate trend remains
down, despite Tuesday's great gains. To change that, it's going to take
some follow through. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc604lan
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Look For Some Profit Taking In Tsys 

563 words
6 December 2000
13:55
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



8:55 (Dow Jones) Some Treasury participants are warning that there
could be a bit of profit taking in the market today after the solid run
Tuesday, and technical indications point to an overbought market. Still,
some argue, it's likely to take some surprise number, most likely from
Friday's jobs report, to put in play the next big market move. (MSD)



8:48 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD and USD/JPY are stable after downgrade of
third quarter U.S. productivity. EUR/USD is at $0.8833 while USD/JPY is
at Y110.79. (CSE)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Consider this stat, courtesy of Jeff deGraaf at
Lehman: of the 20 largest one-day percentage gains on Nasdaq over the
past 20 years, a remarkable 12 have occurred since the March 2000 peak.
"Big momentum days are often counter-trend in nature," he says.
Dismissing stampede momentum as reactionary when it is genuine change in
market dynamics can be disasterous, but he doesn't believe we're out of
the woods yet. (TG)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Tuesday's wildfire rally aside, the market
downturn/slower economy is showing up in ad trends. We've seen it on the
Internet, with Doubleclick (DCLK) having to lay off staff, and it's
happening in print, too, as a warning from Dow Jones (DJ) shows. DJ, the
publisher of this newswire, says ad linage at The Wall Street Journal
was off 11.9% in Nov., cause for the company to revise 4Q estimates to
83-86c vs. First Call 92c. Expect Other publishers to see ad softening,
too. We'll hear from the big ones later when they present at media
confabs in NYC today. (GC)



8:36 (Dow Jones) The downward revision in third-quarter production is
having little immediate effect on the Treasurys curve, after the
market's very solid gains yesterday. The 10-year note is up 4/32 to
yield 5.41%. For many traders, the data may be old news after
Greenspan's dovish talk Tuesday. (MSD)



8:34 (Dow Jones) Nonfarm productivity growth in 3Q was revised to an
annual rate of 3.3% from an initial estimate of 3.8% and unit labor cost
- the difference between hourly compensation and productivity - was
revised to 2.9% from 2.5%. These are both slightly adverse, though
productivity growth is well in excess of the 1973-95 trend. Unit labor
cost is a bit high for comfort. (JM)



8:30 (Dow Jones) It looks like stocks will take a bit of a breather
early, though that's not too troubling given Tuesday's record-filled
session. What would be more irksome is a bigger selloff that serves to
delegitimize those big gains. Apple Computer (AAPL) isn't helping, off
big time after hours on the heels of another weak outlook. Circuit City
(CC) this morning came out with some less-than-inspiring numbers. Big
Hewlett-Packard (HWP) meeting this morning, Beige Book released later.
As for the market, from a technical slant the intermediate trend remains
down, despite Tuesday's great gains. To change that, it's going to take
some follow through. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc604l9v
?
Newscast: Recap of stock market news   

183 words
5 December 2000
Minnesota Public Radio: Marketplace
MKPL
English
(c) Copyright 2000, Minnesota Public Radio. All Rights Reserved.   

DAVID BRANCACCIO, anchor:   

And this recap of today's extraordinary jumps in the stock market. The recipe was this: The Federal Reserve chairman did a speech strongly suggesting that he and his colleagues are no longer inclined to raise interest rates, citing turmoil in financial markets raising the risk of an economic slowdown. Add to that word late yesterday from a Florida court lowering some of the uncertainty about who will the next president and the result was a 338-point gain for the Dow. That's 3.2 percent. And a record 274-point gain for the NASDAQ. That's 10 1/2 percent. That index closed at 2,889 today. Bonds were way up, with the yield on the 30-year Treasury coming down to 5.43 percent.   

Something more downbeat for investors to chew on for tomorrow: A profit warning from  Apple Computer after the markets closed. That company says sales for its iMacs were disappointing in October and November. Crude oil today closed at its lowest level since August, below $30 a barrel.   

Document MKPL000020070820dwc5003jj
?
 

 Wall Street rallies on Greenspan comments, election moves 

378 words
5 December 2000
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 NEW YORK, Dec 5 (AFP) - Stocks staged a powerful rally Tuesday amid hopes the US presidential election will soon be resolved as investor sentiment got a boost from comments by Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan. 

 At 1645 GMT, the Nasdaq had rocketed up 192.20 points (7.35 percent) to 2,807.95 and Dow Jones industrials were up 274.15 points (2.60 percent to 10,834.25. 

 The Standard and Poor's 500 was up 38.34 points (2.89 percent) to 1,363.31. 

 "We have two catalysts for short-term bullishness," said Barry Hyman, chief equity strategist at Weatherly Securities. 

 "One, is that the election is all but over and two is that Alan Greenspan has suggested he is inclined to drop the Fed's tightening bias on interest rates." 

 "The market has been waiting for this for quite some time and even though it probably might not go up much higher today, things are looking much more positive," Hyman said. 

 Semiconductor issues rallied from their recent sluggishness, helped by positive comments by Nokia, dealers said. 

 Texas Instruments surged more than 12 percent to trade up 4-7/8 at 44-1/2. Motorola added 1 to 19-3/8, Intel gained 2-3/4 to 35-11/16 and Micron climbed 2-3/8 to 33-9/16. 

 LSI Logic also rallied on the positive momentum in the sector, despite issuing a fourth-quarter profit warning. LSI gained 1.81 dollars or over 10 percent to 20.08 dollars. 

 Xilinx, which also warned on upcoming results, added 1-1/16 to 42- 3/4. 

 "All the bad news was priced into these issues and investors can't resist the momentum upwards, this is a good sign," one dealer said. 

 Among other sharp percentage gainers, Juniper Networks gained 16- 13/64 to 145-11/16, Ariba added 7-5/8 to 69-1/16 and CMGI surged 1-5/ 16 to 11. 

 Dell added 1-3/8 to 20-3/16, Compaq gained 1.10 dollars to 23.87 and Apple traded 1/2 higher at 17-3/16. Gateway kept pace with its peers, putting on 0.63 dollars to 18.59. 

 bur-rl/mdl 

Document afpr000020010803dwc5057bb
?
 

 IS THE US HEADED FOR A HARD LANDING? 

598 words
5 December 2000
The Sun
THESUM
English
(c) The Christchurch Press, INL 2000

 Is the US headed for a hard landing? That is the million-dollar question on the forefront of investors' mind. Clearly, judging by how the world's equity markets gyrated over the past few weeks, swinging back and forth between positive and negative territories, no one is quite sure of the answer. 

 The source of the confusion? On the one hand, most economic data coming out of the US suggests the economy is not slowing as sharply as some had feared. Yet on the other hand, we have been relentlessly bombarded with one profit warning after another from US corporates. Wall Street analysts' have been merrily slashing their earnings estimates for the next two even three quarters - led by personal computer makers, chipmakers and most recently, car makers. The big three US car makers Ford Motor, General Motors and DaimlerChrysler have all reported declines in sales. More ominously, these companies are reportedly preparing to respond with more plant closures and layoffs. 

 As mentioned previously, although the headline gross domestic product (GDP) numbers for most Asian economies have continued to be encouraging, they may be an illusion. Much of the recovery in activities have centred on manufacturing production for exports. And the largest export market for the world is the US. Get the picture? 

 This is partly the reason why buying interest in Japan fizzled out, after the release of its three months to September GDP growth data. Investors are wary that a recession in the US would effectively kill its recovery, which has so far been led by exports. The world's second largest economy is still struggling to revive its flagging do-mestic consumer spending. The Nikkei 225 index closed up 119.4 points, but off its intra-day high on the lack of follow through support. 

 Similarly, the festive season is not expected to bring much cheer to retailers in Hongkong. Shops are reportedly offering steep discounts in a bid to ring up sales. Despite the strong 12% GDP growth for the year-to-date, the man in the street continues to suffer from the after-effects of the last crisis. Unemployment is still almost double 1997 levels. 

 The Korean stock market is among the hardest hit by the softening demand for personal computers and semiconductor chips. The prices for memory chips has fallen by more than half from its peak in July this year, dragging down many key index blue chip stocks. The Seoul composite index lost 2.5% yesterday. 

 What could trigger a fresh rally? Analysts are looking ahead to a cut in US interest rates to counter the blossoming economic slowdown. But most do not expect that to happen until at least the first quarter of 2001. Until then, we may have to be content with the current ambivalent trading mood. 

 The local market ended on a weaker note after starting off in the positive territory. The KLCI closed down two points at 724 points, led by falls in semicon-ductor assemblers Unisem and Malaysian Pacific Industries. Volume was unremarkable at 92 million shares. There were hardly any fresh leads to stimulate the market. 

 The most interesting debate of the day centred on the Berjaya group. Berjaya Sports Toto announced a dividend-for-ICULS plan to resolve its long running inter-company loans to Berjaya Land. The gaming counter was among the top gainers yesterday, rising some 5% to close at RM4.68 per share. 

 Any-one still skeptical that something can be created out of nothing should take a closer look at that proposal. 

Document thesum0020010818dwc5008sa
?
 

 BUSINESS 
 BUSINESS TODAY Series: BUSINESS TODAY  

524 words
5 December 2000
St. Petersburg Times
STPT
SOUTH PINELLAS
1E
English
 (Copyright 2000)  

 FROST FEAR BOOSTS JUICE PRICES: Orange juice futures soared 9 percent, the biggest one-day gain in more than a year, as forecasts for frigid U.S. weather raised concern that Florida's crop, the nation's biggest, might be damaged by frost. Any freeze would come at a time when some growers say dry weather already has left fruit smaller than normal, which could reduce juice yields during the harvest. Frozen concentrated orange juice for January delivery rose 7.1 cents to 86.3 cents a pound on the New York Cotton Exchange.  

 GAS PRICES SLIP: Gasoline prices fell nearly 2 cents a gallon across the country during the past two weeks, according to the Lundberg Survey of 10,000 service stations nationwide. The average price of all grades was $1.56. The price decline stems from a surplus of both crude oil and gasoline, analyst Trilby Lundberg said, and prices are expected to slip further over the next few weeks.  

 BOFA TALKING ATMS APPEAR IN FLORIDA: Bank of America has installed its first talking automated teller machines in Florida as part of a three-year rollout of 2,500 machines. The talking ATMs, which deliver audible instructions and information to users through headsets, are aimed at attracting blind customers and those with low vision. Nine Florida cities are in the first phase of the rollout. They include St. Petersburg with one machine at an Exxon station at 6201 U.S. Highway 19 and Tampa with four machines at the Hillsborough County Courthouse; WestShore Plaza; 337 E Davis Blvd. on Davis Island; and 10301 N Dale Mabry Highway in Carrollwood. Charlotte, N.C.-based Bank of America, which announced the talking ATM program this year, has more than 14,000 ATMs, the largest network in the country. The bank previously installed 68 talking ATMs in California.  

 3COM ISSUES WARNING: 3Com Corp. said it expects fiscal second- quarter revenue and profit to be lower than previously forecast because of delayed sales to telecommunications companies. 3Com, which makes computer-networking equipment, said it expects to report sales for the quarter ending Dec. 1 of $765-million to $780-million, excluding product lines it has sold or plans to sell. 3Com had forecast sales of $870-million to $910-million. 3Com expects a loss of between 19 cents and 23 cents a share, wider than the company's target of a loss between 7 cents and 9 cents a share. Its shares today rose 44 cents to $13.38.  

 USA NETWORKS CONSIDERS STATION SALES: USA Networks Inc. chairman and CEO Barry Diller confirmed he is negotiating the sale of or a joint venture for the company's 13 broadcast stations. USA Networks would not identify the suitor, but Prudential Securities analyst Katherine Styponias speculated it may be Walt Disney Co., the owner of ABC-TV, several cable networks and 10 broadcast stations. Diller's attempts to switch some of USA's stations from carrying his Home Shopping Network to more-conventional programs have yet to turn a profit. In the bay area, USA owns WBHS-Ch. 50, which carries HSN.  

Document stpt000020010813dwc501cxa
?
 

 Scholastic Executive To Pay Fine in Case Over Earnings Report 

Dow Jones Newswires
300 words
5 December 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
B14
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -- A Scholastic Corp. executive agreed to pay nearly $218,000 to settle Securities and Exchange Commission allegations that she tipped off her brother, a financial analyst, before the New York children's book publisher announced a profit warning. 

 Leslye R. Schaefer, senior vice president of marketing at Scholastic Entertainment, was one of a group of officers told in advance that Scholastic would announce in February 1997 a decline in earnings due to weak sales of its "Goosebumps" books, according to the SEC. 

 She told her brother, Allan G. Schaefer, a securities analyst at Beneficial Capital Management Corp., who tipped off two friends who proceeded to make about $137,000 by purchasing put options on Scholastic's stock, according to the SEC. 

 All four settled the SEC action without admitting or denying wrongdoing. Ms. Schaefer agreed to pay a fine of $137,343 and return $80,000 representing illegal trading profits made by her brother's two friends. "Ms. Schaeffer settled the matter to avoid prolonged litigation," said her attorney, John R. Hewitt. 

 Mr. Schaefer agreed to pay a civil penalty of $50,000. His attorney couldn't immediately be reached. The two men who traded on the information weren't fined because of their inability to pay, the agency said. However, they agreed to return profits of $61,600. 

 Leslye Schaefer is still employed at Scholastic Entertainment, the television-marketing arm of Scholastic. Judy Corman, a Scholastic spokeswoman, described Ms. Schaefer as a "valuable" employee. "The SEC never alleged that she received any financial benefit from the improper trading," she said. "We're convinced that she did nothing that she thought would be injurious to Scholastic." Ms. Corman added that Scholastic cooperated with the SEC. 

Document j000000020010807dwc500ux7
?
 IT World - Slowing high tech market could give Euro a break. 

516 words
5 December 2000
Belfast News Letter
BELNEL
2
English
(c) 2000 Century Newspapers, Ltd.

 SO, the mighty American economy is slowing down - did somebody at the back there say, 'at long last'? 

 Well it looks like it, as the euro gained ground against the dollar at the tail end of last week and computer giant Gateway announced a profit warning. 

 The latter was not good for the IT sector with the NASDAQ again taking a hit, yet the relatively good news about the euro should help exporters. 

 But hold on, the question the IT sector across Europe and specifically in the UK, will be asking, is, 'Are we seeing the beginning of a trend and a strengthening of the euro?' 

 That we don't know and I wouldn't be rushing to open a good bottle of Merlot just yet. It has been the continuous strength of the dollar since the euro was born almost two years ago that has kept the fledgling currency under constant pressure. 

 It hasn't helped UK exporters that the UK economy has been tracking the American and growth in Europe has been slow and out of sync with what's happening here and on the other side of the Atlantic. 

 Arguments about the benefits of euro membership aside, poor growth in Europe has kept the currency down and simply reinforced the strength of sterling. 

 But with an apparent slow down now in the IT and high tech sectors globally, sectors dominated by US companies, the chances of a euro revival look better than even. 

 The dollar is so closely linked to the future prospects of high tech stocks that it's frightening. Any blip in the global semi-conductor and PC markets sends shockwaves across the financial markets - hence the NASDAQ's forward somersault with two half twists off the top board. Could Gateway's announcement be the beginning of a bleak IT Christmas? 

 The continuing wrangle over the US Presidency can't be helping either and at time of writing it still hadn't been sorted out. Indeed, the more protracted the dispute over votes becomes, the less confidence there will be in the mighty dollar's global stabilising influence. 

 Never mind, if the pound should falter a bit over the coming weeks there will be cheers in boardrooms all over Northern Ireland and chief execs will be pulling out their world maps and deciding where to go to next. 

 It will be interesting too to note how the IT cold in the States takes hold in the Republic of Ireland, so dependent on high tech US investment! While the Celtic Tiger has more than its fair share of problems at the moment, as those who feel disenfranchised by the country's economic success demand some payback, what happens to the IT sector there will give us some indication of what may happen here. Northern Ireland supports thousands of IT jobs and we can't afford to be complacent about what is happening globally in the marketplace. 

 So we'll be watching the dollar closely and keeping the cork in the Merlot. 

Document belnel0020010804dwc5000dq
?
 

 European shares fall amid fears over US economy ATTENTION - RECASTS, UPDATES share prices, indices /// 

576 words
4 December 2000
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 LONDON, Dec 4 (AFP) - European share markets dropped Monday as investors fretted over the spectre of a hard-landing for the US economy and persistent weakness in technology firms. 

 Wall Street rallied after news that the US Supreme Court had overturned a Florida high court ruling that allowed hand recounts in the state, giving a boost to market-friendly Republican George W. Bush. 

 But the news was too late for most European markets. 

 European investors were instead depressed by gloomy figures being released on the US economy, which have stoked the spectre of a hard landing for the powerhouse. 

 "Fears about global growth have dominated," said one dealer in Paris. 

 "Nearly all the stocks have been hit as fears about growth, particularly in the United States where it looks more as though the landing will be hard rather than soft." 

 London's FTSE 100 index eased 11.7 points to finish at 6,158.7. 

 Paris' CAC-40 index fell 136.99 points, or 2.3 percent, to close at 5,791.51. 

 In late trade, Frankfurt's DAX had dropped 104.51 points or 1.6 percent, to 6,408.67. 

 Across the 11-nation euro zone, the Euro Stoxx 50 index was down 2.15 percent at 4,735.24. 

 Shortly after the US court decision, the Dow Jones industrials index was up 138.40 points to 10,511.94. But the technology-laden Nasdaq index was still down 36.07 points at 2,609.22 despite paring its losses. 

 In London, technology firms dropped. 

 Information technology services company Sema Group fell 29 pence to 271 pence as it struggled with murky share dealings and the impact of its shock profit warning over a week ago. 

 Bookham Technology shed 67 pence to close at 960 pence. 

 In banking, Bradford and Bingley shares made an uninspiring debut performance, ending at 244 pence after opening at 252. 

 Reuters shares drove 30 pence higher to 1,109 as the market anticipated news of chief executive Peter Job's replacement, likely to be internal candidate Tom Glocer. 

 Brokers in Paris, casting their eyes to the uncertain US outlook and the rally on the euro, sold shares in luxury group LVMH, which closed down 2.15 euros at 70.85 euros. 

 Vivendi dropped 1.20 euros to 70.40 euros despite comments by chairman Jean-Marie Messier that it was close to reaching an agreement for the disposal of its 55 percent stake in America Online Inc's AOL France. 

 In Frankfurt, Deutsche Telekom fell 1.39 euros to trade at 35.95 euros in the evening. 

 Business software group SAP compounded its huge losses last week, falling 3.25 euros to 159.25 euros. 

 Siemens' software unit Infineon dropped 1.10 euros to 44.05 euros. Siemens shed 3.61 euros to close at 132.59 euros. 

 Elsewhere, Madrid's Ibex-35 fell 270.3 points to 9,069.1, Zurich's Swiss Market Index dropped 34.60 points to 8,015.90, Amsterdam's AEX index retreated 11.24 points to 649.09, Milan's Mib30 slumped 1,141 points to 45,450 and Brussels' Bel 20 eased 34.52 points to 3,008.39. 

 On the European fixed-interest markets, the yield on the benchmark 10-year German bond rallied to 4.94 percent from 5.00 percent Friday. 

 burs/djw/sas 

Document afpr000020010803dwc4055ra
?
 Lukewarm figures dampen US rally. 

459 words
3 December 2000
Sunday Mail
SUNMAI
47
English
(c) 2000 Advertiser Newspapers Limited

 NEW YORK: A rebound in the battered tech sector lifted the Nasdaq as investors hunted for bargains. 

 The Nasdaq hi-tech index gained 47 points to 2645. The Dow slipped 40 points to 10,373. But dealers said bargain hunters soon turned cautious. 

 Buyers remain worried about the unresolved US presidential election and a slowing US economy. 

 The tech rebound followed the Nasdaq's plunge to its lowest closing level in 15 months after profit warnings from Gateway and Altera. 

 Chief investment strategist of Prudential Securities, Greg Smith, said the rally was not necessarily a signal the worst was over. "I don't think we're anywhere near out of the woods yet," he said. 

 Analysts said a report showing a softening in the manufacturing sector for the fourth consecutive month was a further indication the pace of growth seems to be slowing more noticeably. 

 Car makers' stocks closed higher as investors disregarded negative November sales figures from the three major US vehicle makers. Ford issued a profit warning for the fourth quarter, while DaimlerChrysler said it would temporarily close up to five US plants. 

 The PC sector, which earlier plunged on Gateway's profit warning, staged a recovery. Yahoo was a notable loser after Prudential Securities cut its share price target for the company. 

 The US dollar was hurt by nervousness about the pace of the US economic slowdown. The European currency, the euro, climbed to US0.87. 

 The Australian dollar closed at 53.60US cents after having nudged the 54 cent mark. The greenback rose against Japan's currency, to 111.17 yen from 110.33 yen amid negative sentiment about Japan's economy and political crisis. Fears of deflation in the world's second-biggest economy were reignited by a gloomy set of figures indicating weak prices. 

 A senior currency trader said the euro had achieved safe haven status after exceptionally weak US data triggered speculation the US could be headed for a recession. The National Association of Purchasing Management said its overall index fell to 47.7 points in November from 48.3 in October. 

 In Europe, share markets edged nervously higher as technology stocks dusted themselves off. 

 In LONDON, the FT-SE 100 index rose 28 points to close at 6170 as investors took heart from the Nasdaq's revival. 

 In HONG KONG, stocks are likely to be driven by optimistic sentiment this week. The key Hang Seng index gained 64 points last week - surging 457 on Friday - to close at 14,441. 

 In TOKYO, share prices are likely to turn in a solid performance this week. The Nikkei gained 519 points last week - 186 on Friday - to end at 14,835. 

 Gold closed at $US268.70 an ounce. 

Document sunmai0020010817dwc300an6
?
 Huntsman-U. Idea Might Be Good -- But Only for the Greedy 

 C.T. BEAGLEY 
1,238 words
3 December 2000
The Salt Lake Tribune
SLTR
AA6
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 When I opened The Salt Lake Tribune on Sunday morning (Nov. 26), my eyes focused on the headline "U., Huntsman Plot Venture" and the subheading "School and philanthropist may try to turn research into profit." What followed these eye-catching statements was a copyrighted story by Anna Cekola that described a new venture between the University of Utah and Jon M. Huntsman. As stated in the article, the two would combine their efforts to create a "for-profit company designed to take campus-developed technology to market and feed profits back to education and research programs." 

 The casual reader may have thought "What a great idea." 

 Indeed, what harm could come from a system that used profits from some invention to help pay for research and higher education? Imagine, for example, that a university researcher invented something like intermittent windshield wipers. Everybody who wanted this feature on their new car could pay an extra hundred dollars or so and part of that money would go to the university. Sounds like a win-win situation. The problem is that we are not talking about the invention of some trivial device like the intermittent wiper. The patents these people will be seeking cover matters of life and death. They will try to make money from DNA sequences just like the ones contained in the cells of my body and yours. You probably thought your DNA actually belonged to you. Guess again because you are about to be the victim of a very hostile takeover. 

 Please don't be a casual reader. This is a very dangerous proposition that would create an entity capable of crossing into unethical waters already held back by a barrier that is weak and crumbling. Ms. Cekola points out that "Such a venture would take the U. into virtually unchartered territory." Sometimes, the waters remain unchartered because it's not a good idea to go there (read Cold Fusion). Let me offer a warning and try to explain why this for- profit joint venture is not a good idea and why other institutions (at least as capable as the University of Utah) have opted not to follow this path. 

 The Good: Bernie Machen is the overseer of an institution responsible for two very important tasks: higher education and research. Nobody would question the importance of either of these endeavors. In fact, they are very closely related. As a society, we advance whenever one of us discovers (through research) something about nature and makes that information available to the rest of us (through teaching). In light of his responsibilities, it's easy to see how a university president might lend an ear to someone who offers more resources to accomplish these mandates. 

 Jon M. Huntsman is a philanthropist extraordinaire who has given immeasurable assistance to the university and, indeed, to all of us. Huntsman realized a few years ago that his power and resources could greatly benefit the fight against one of the cruelest diseases of all, cancer. He has given hundreds of millions of dollars to establish The Huntsman Cancer Institute, a bastion of hope for people trying to fight the disease and for people helping them to do so. Huntsman's motivation for joining this new venture is purely altruistic, as he has pledged that any portion of the profits due him would go directly back into the institute and the university. 

 The Bad: There are two groups of people even more excited about this proposal than either Machen or Huntsman. The massive amounts of money involved will attract lawyers like flies are attracted to  . . .  well you know. Specifically, I'm talking about patent attorneys. I can hear the BMW's rolling out of the car lot even as I write. The public needs to realize that a large portion of any money changing hands here is going to go to people who do not have our best interests in mind. Patent attorneys are already making fortunes just by litigating cases where some company is trying to patent a particular DNA sequence. These people have no desire to see the ethical-moral issues resolved. That would put them out of business. Their only focus is on continuing the courtroom proceedings where they get paid for their time. 

 The second group licking their lips is much more dangerous than the lawyers and not as easy to understand. I hesitate to call these people scientists because they don't freely share their acquired knowledge like a scientist normally would. Instead, these individuals are busily searching for ways to make a quick buck by exploiting the resources and machinery of scientific research. They ignore the fact that their own work was probably started with public money and that along the way many true scientists offered helpful ideas and protocols (free of charge I might add). Science and medicine have flourished in our time as a result of a free exchange of knowledge. It is hard to imagine James Watson and Francis Crick (they discovered the structure of the DNA molecule in 1953) only telling their secret to those people who could afford to pay some large sum of money. Watson and Crick realized that they had uncovered a fact of nature so important that it belonged to everyone. 

 In 1989, I finalized a master's degree at the University of Utah in biology and was searching for a place to ply my genetic engineering trade. One of the companies I interviewed with has now grown into a major player in the biotech industry. I have to tell you that my encounter with that company left me in shock and caused me to question the ethical use of DNA technology. I  heard that this company had found a DNA sequence (gene) that was responsible for causing a particular illness, and I was interested in joining the fight. Expecting to hear about how my contribution could help understand this disease and possibly help afflicted people, I was, instead, inundated with stories of vast wealth and of how much money I could make from the work I would be doing. Stunned and embarrassed by this revelation, I turned down their offer of employment. 

 The Ugly: The long-term effects of this proposed partnership could be very ugly. The resources Machen will receive to fund research and higher education will not just materialize out of thin air. This money is going to come directly out of the pockets of people who have cancer or who pay for health insurance. What a travesty this is going to be. Desperate people who are sick and dying of cancer forking over exorbitant amounts of money to pay for knowledge that in any other day and age would have been offered quickly and freely. 

 In my opinion, Huntsman has been receiving bad advice from somebody. Why taint a good and noble endeavor like the Huntsman Cancer Institute by lining the pockets of patent attorneys and greedy for-profit scientists? He should lock the doors to his office and not let those people in again. The irony of the situation is that the one collaboration that could have set the standard for altruistic and free exchange of medical and scientific knowledge may end up being the one that closes that door forever. 

 _________ 

 C.T. Beagley, PhD., teaches biology at Salt Lake Community College. 

Document sltr000020010813dwc30103h
?
 Texas Offshore Drilling Contractor Issues  Profit Warning 

 Nelson Antosh 
564 words
2 December 2000
KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Houston Chronicle - Texas
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 Transocean Sedco Forex, the largest offshore drilling contractor, Friday warned that its fourth-quarter earnings would fall short of Wall Street expectations. 

 Revenues will be flat to only slightly better than the third quarter because of an unusually large amount of rig downtime, the company said, also citing delays in getting newly built rigs on the job. 

 Meanwhile, expenses will be up because of the costs of repairs and of adding new and technologically advanced rigs to the fleet. 

 The Houston-based company said it will earn between 10 and 15 cents per diluted share for the period ending Dec. 31, compared with the 22 cents per share average of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Transocean's shares quickly plunged by more than $5 per share, but later recovered to close at $40.06, for a gain of 19 cents. 

 The price drop was an over-reaction, said analyst Fred Mutalibov of Southwest Securities in Dallas, while the recovery was aided by Friday's strong market for oil-field service shares in general. 

 Transocean had been as high as $48.63 last week, before speculation about an oil price decline next spring took its toll on the service industry. 

 Transocean also said Friday it will pay rival driller Global Marine $67.5 million in cash to settle a dispute that dates to late 1997. At issue was the terms of the charter on the semisubmersible rig Glomar Grand Banks. There was disagreement over when the charter ended, the condition of the rig when it returned to Global, and Transocean's liability for additional days beyond the lease term. 

 For Transocean, the settlement will mean a one-time charge of $37.4 million during the quarter, the equivalent of 18 cents per share. This amount is not included in the 10 to 15 cents-per-share estimate. 

 The fourth quarter has seen an unusually large amount of down time, both planned and unplanned, said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer J. Michael Talbert. 

 In the latter category were a rig damaged by fire, one that developed cracks in part of its structure, another that dropped its blowout preventer into the water, and a brief strike in Nigeria. 

 The company reported delays of three to four weeks in delivery of four newly built rigs, including a big drill ship currently being readied for work in Corpus Christi. 

 About $2 million in crew costs are being expensed, rather than capitalized, because of the delays. Two rigs are waiting for automated pipe-handling software to be installed, a frustrating problem "that has taken longer than we ever would have expected," said the chief executive. 

 Talbert said in a conference call that the offshore drilling business continues to see a slow, gradual improvement. "Barring a global recession, I think the fundamentals of our business are very good," he told analysts. 

 On Friday, Transocean announced contract signings for offshore work with total expected revenues of $135 million. 

 "Recent contract commitments are evidence of the measurable improvement in customer spending levels, which we are witnessing in virtually every market served. Contract terms are beginning to reflect the characteristics of a slowly tightening rig market," Talbert said in a written statement. 

 The contracts are for a longer period of time, and at higher day rates for most types of rigs, he explained. 

Document krtbn00020010808dwc2000gm
?
 

 Business 
 Australia Has Protection From US Meltdown 

 Eli Greenblat 
571 words
2 December 2000
The Age
AGEE
2
English
 Copyright of John Fairfax Group Pty Ltd 

 Australia's sharemarket could be insulated from the nuclear winter that threatens on Wall Street, as local investors reap the benefit of not being caught up in last year's euphoria that sent United States share prices to extremely overvalued levels. 

 The Australian Stock Exchange's relatively small exposure to the increasingly  volatile tech sector could also save it from a hard landing, with the nation's club of old economy industrial stocks acting as a bulwark against a sustained downturn in overseas markets. 

 Analysts and fund managers contacted by The Age yesterday said they expected Australian equities to be protected to some extent on the downside, as Wall Street begins to lurch into the abyss. 

 They said that while the Australian equity market had reached fair value, much of the carnage would be most likely played out in the US, where stocks had a long way to fall from their overvalued prices. In New York overnight, another profit warning from a key technology company, this time Gateway, triggered a selling stampede that left the Nasdaq market down 4 per cent and the Dow Jones Industrial Average 2 per cent weaker. 

 The warning, together with poor US economic data, reconfirmed in many minds that the world's biggest economy was starting to slow. 

 Rothschild Australia associate director, balanced funds, Debbie Alliston, said local investors had been expecting a downturn for some time, thus cushioning the impact of bad news out of the US. 

 ``It is a sentiment issue in the US market because people are becoming concerned about the outlook for growth and believing that perhaps it would be slower than originally anticipated,'' she said. ``Those views have been reasonably firmly entrenched in the Australian market for some months now; that's one reason why we should outperform.'' 

 She said that while the broader US market was being ravaged by company-specific news, such as the Gateway downgrade, the Australian market seemed to have been less hurt by individual corporate revelations. 

 ``The market here was overly optimistic about earnings for Australian companies in 2001; although we've started to see some downgrades to earnings expectations, it has surprisingly had stock-specific impact rather than on the overall market.'' 

 Anton Tagliaffero, investment director at Investors Mutual, said the recent rumblings in the US had helped to spawn a two-tiered stockmarket in Australia. 

 ``You've got the cyclic plays like building and media stocks that are at the moment quite weak as people factor in a slowing economy in Australia, while sectors like gaming and the banks seem to be doing well,'' Mr Tagliaffero said. 

 He was confident Australian equities could avoid a hard landing, with the market generally at fair value. 

 ``I think the aspect that has really held the Australian market up in the face of the falling Wall Street has been the flight to safety which has seen institutional and retail funds flowing into the banks and stocks like Woolworths, TAB and Tabcorp.'' 

 Nomura Securities strategist Eric Betts said: ``The valuations don't look too  bad here, and don't have the extremes of the US, so we will be relatively firm.  For the rest of the Australian market, except for media and telcos, prices look  quite reasonable. 

 ``Next year will be pretty poor and miserable, but 2002 should be better, helped by a re-accelerating global economy,'' he said. 

Document agee000020010803dwc200l0s
?
 

Investment
Slowdown fears hit US markets

Aaron Patrick NEW YORK with John Davidson   
573 words
2 December 2000
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
Late
39
English
Copyright 2000. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.   

Mounting concerns of a US slowdown sent shockwaves through the US sharemarket during the week, with the technology-dominated Nasdaq exchange plunging to levels half that seen in March.

The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 4 per cent on Thursday to 2598 points, its lowest point since August last year. A 23 per cent fall for November was the biggest monthly drop since US markets crashed in October 1987, when the Nasdaq declined 27 per cent.

So far this year, the Nasdaq has fallen 36 per cent, which if sustained would be the index's biggest annual loss in its 29-year history, surpassing the 35 per cent decline recorded in 1974.

The losses were smaller in the other key indices, with Standard & Poor's 500 Index down 8 per cent and the Dow Jones Industrial Average off 5 per cent, but the declines illustrated the bleak outlook for corporate earnings amid the US economic slowdown.

The Dow Jones has fallen 9.4 per cent this year, while the S&P500 has slipped 10.5 per cent.

On Thursday the Nasdaq reported its second-busiest session yet, a sign of the breadth of concerns, with the market now 52 per cent below its peak. The Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 2 per cent to 10,414, wiping out Wednesday's 121-point gain.

Computer manufacturers were particularly hard hit following the announcement by the Gateway retail group that it expected fourth-quarter sales to come in well below expectations.

Many analysts cut their price targets for the stock by more than half, triggering a wave of selling across related sectors. Stocks hit included Dell Computer, Compaq Computer and Apple Computer, while a profit warning from chip maker Altera added to the bearish atmosphere.

PC makers, chip makers, software companies and network equipment makers have all seen their stocks tumble recently, with Microsoft suffering its third-biggest one-day drop in 10 years on Thursday.

New share sales have dried up on the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq, and many emerging companies are finding it difficult to raise debt because of deepening bank concerns about defaults and bankruptcies.

But some commentators said the sell-off was overdone, and encouraged investors to buy technology stocks. Goldman Sachs US strategist Ms Abby Joseph Cohen said the economy was growing at a sustainable pace of 3 per cent and the chances of a recession were "extremely remote".

"The prospects for companies with earnings are very good," she told CNN. "We see some very interesting opportunities in financial services companies, and now we can see it in selected areas of technology something we couldn't say earlier in the year."

Third-quarter economic growth was revised down during the week to 2.4 per cent, followed by a report that the number of Americans filing first-time unemployment claims rose to the highest level in more than two years.

Investors hope the Federal Reserve will soften its anti-inflation rhetoric at its December 19 meeting, raising the prospect of an early interest rate cut that would almost certainly boost share prices.

TECH WRECK

* The Nasdaq has slumped 48.5% from its March 10 high of 5048.62 points.

* Nasdaq fell 23% in November, the biggest monthly fall since October 1987.

* About $US3 trillion in value has been slashed from the Nasdaq since March.

Document AFNR000020111227dwc200nkt
?
 

 U.S. Markets Fall On Tech Tremors --- Europeans Also Unload Shares --- Nasdaq Ends Day Nearly 50% Below Its March High   

 By E.S. Browning and Silvia Ascarelli   
Staff Reporters
1,328 words
1 December 2000
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
1
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

 Another barrage of stock-selling left the Nasdaq Composite Index nearly 50% below its all-time high hit in March, and a late-day rally softened the pain only a little.   

 Staggered by the latest pair of earnings warnings from technology companies, computer-maker Gateway and chip-maker Altera, the Nasdaq composite dropped another 4.03%, or 109.00 points, to 2597.93. Trading volumes on both the Nasdaq Stock Market and the New York Stock Exchange were their second-heaviest in history, a sign that more investors are throwing in the towel.   

 Although the Dow Jones Industrial Average is less exposed to tech stocks than the Nasdaq, the selling spilled over to nontech stocks as well. The blue-chip index fell 2.02%, or 214.62 points, to 10414.49. The Dow industrials are far from their low for the year of 9796.03, but they still are down 9.4% since the year began.   

 "It looks like they shot them all," said Tim Morris, chief investment officer at Bessemer Trust in New York.   

 Once again, the Nasdaq composite was by far the hardest hit. At its lowest, before a late-day bounce, the index hit 2523.04, which put it temporarily at less than half the record value of 5048.62 that it hit on March 10.   

 The Nasdaq composite now has given back all of its gains from late last year and early this year, slipping below the 2688.18 level from which it began its historic five-month run to its March record. The Nasdaq is back to where it traded on Aug. 12 and Aug. 13, 1999.   

 The decline was bad in September and October, and actually accelerated in November. In less than four weeks since Nov. 3, the Friday before election day, the technology-driven index has fallen 24.7%. It is down 48.5% from its record, and down 36% since the year began.   

 The fall in the U.S. increased the fear among European investors that the U.S. economy will come down with a thud, prompting them to once again unload equity holdings.   

 Led by European technology and cyclical stocks, the Dow Jones Stoxx total-market index skidded 1.9% Thursday, bringing its losses for the month to 6.3%. Among the big losers were once red-hot Bookham Technologies PLC, which fell another 10% to 879 pence after dropping below its initial public offering price earlier this week, and Dutch electronics giant Philips NV, which plunged 8.4% to 38.01 euros.   

 Thursday's sell-off in Europe was sparked by the one-two U.S. punch of an overnight profit warning from Gateway and a steep drop in the Purchasing Management Association of Chicago index, which covers one of the largest manufacturing areas in the U.S.   

 "Investors are increasingly pricing in the probability of a hard-landing scenario" in the U.S., said Martin Skanberg, head of European equities research at London-based SEB Investment Management. Small consolation: the European economy, which never enjoyed the same boom as the U.S., "should hold up a little bit better."   

 On Thursday, Europe added a body blow to investors when Deutsche Telekom AG, Europe's biggest phone company, warned that the cost of acquiring new customers for its D1 mobile phone business this quarter is squeezing profit margins. Its mobile business is a clear No. 2 in Germany to Vodafone PLC's D2 network. Deutsche Telekom's share price fell 5.1% to GBP 36.49.   

 Small and mid-cap technology, media and telecoms stocks continue to suffer most. Shares in U.K. online auction house QXL plunged 30% to 17.50 pence. Dutch alternative telecoms group VersaTel Telecom International NV of the Netherlands dropped 18% to GBP 11.50 after a merger involving its U.S. partner, NorthPoint Communications Group Inc., collapsed late Wednesday. Investors feared that as a result, the VersaTel-NorthPoint wouldn't get the funding that had been expected.   

 The all-share index for Germany's Neuer Markt, Europe's most prominent market for fast-growing companies, skidded 4.4% to 3008.57, approaching the 52-week low set earlier this week. The Nouveau March index tumbled 4.7% to 2994.04.   

 In the U.S., Mr. Morris said that, despite the late-day surge that brought stocks off their lows, it is too early to start buying.   

 "We aren't in the business of catching falling knives," Mr. Morris said, referring to a market adage about the danger of trying to buy stocks when they still are falling.   

 "There is no need to be aggressive" in putting money to work, he said, noting that his funds have been keeping more money than usual in cash. His main big-stock fund currently is 7% cash, he said, compared with a normal level of 2% to 5%. "We will work through this in the next few months or so," he said, adding that the market could remain troubled until the Federal Reserve cuts interest rates, which no one expects to happen before next year.   

 But some traders said that the enormous volumes, together with the late-day surge, could be a positive sign.   

 "Certainly we aren't out of the woods," said Warren Epstein, head trader at Richard A. Rosenblatt. "The selloff could continue. But that certainly was capitulation-type volume," he said, referring to a widespread belief that, for markets to rebound, investors must "capitulate," or throw in the towel with high-volume selling. "If there is any positive to glean from today, that would be it."   

 In Europe, fund managers and equity strategists say the chances of a year-end spurt are diminishing as investors focus on shifting their holdings into stocks that are perceived to be less risky. With cash holdings generally high, any turnaround would likely come in the next two weeks, before turnover thins dramatically ahead of the holidays.   

 With earnings expectations being revised downward, seemingly daily, investors haven't yet switched their focus to the benefits that lower interest rates could bring.   

 "My feeling is it's all getting pushed a bit too far," said Mark Howdle, European equity strategist at Schroder Salomon Smith Barney in London and one who's still hoping for an 11th-hour rally. "We're having a pretty rocky transition to an interest-rates-driven period of performance."   

 But Mr. Skanberg, who helps oversee SEB Investment Management's $50 billion in global equities under management, says he believes a U.S. rate cut won't come in March, as investment-bank analysts increasingly suggest, but three months or so later. In the meantime, he's buying shares in utilities such as Suez Lyonnais des Eaux and Electricidade de Portugal, grocers Carrefour, Tesco and Ahold and smaller, regional banks like IMI San Paolo in Italy and Sparebanken Nor in Norway. Among the few technology stocks he'll still buy are two Vodafone subsidiaries, Libertel NV in the Netherlands and Telecel in Portugal.   

 "There's a lot that we hate," he says of the overall market. "We are looking for buying opportunities, and it is hard to identify these."   

 Two of Mr. Skanberg's favorite sectors, pharmaceuticals as well as food and beverages, were the day's only winners, edging up 0.3% and 0.2%, respectively. AstraZeneca rose 4.2% to GBP 36.00, and Diageo hit a year high of 732 pence, climbing 3.5%.   

 Among other indices, the cyclical goods and services portion of the Dow Jones Stoxx index fell 3.7% while the technology portion of the Stoxx index fell 3.6%. The narrower Stoxx 50 index dropped 2.2%. Among major national markets, Germany's Xetra DAX led decliners with a 3.4% drop. The FTSE-100 index edged down 0.4%.   

Document wsje000020010814dwc100i4c
?
 

Abreast of the Market
 Profit News Drags Down Tech Stocks --- Nasdaq Drop Marks Third Consecutive Session Index Has Hit Low for Year    

A Wall Street Journal Europe Roundup
485 words
1 December 2000
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
16
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)    

 NEW YORK -- Trading levels expanded, and bearishness intensified, as high-technology stocks sagged under the latest welter of bad news about profits.    

 The Nasdaq Composite Index, which came into the session 46% off its high for the year, declined 108.95 points, a drop of 4%, and finished at 2597.98; it marked the third consecutive session in which the index finished at a low for the year.    

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average, which had been making progress most of this week in the face of the sell-off in technology, this time capitulated to the pressure, losing 214.62 points, or 2%, to 10414.49.    

 Other major indexes also fell. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index sank 26.96 points to 1314.97, the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index lost 7.63 points to 629.79, and the Russell 2000 Index of small-capitalization stocks gave back 8.60 points to 446.    

 Shares of Gateway dropped $10.50 (12.24 euros) to close at $19, the lowest that stock has traded in more than two years, after the computer maker warned Wall Street late Wednesday that its sales had slowed dramatically, and that it wouldn't, as had been previously expected, report a profit for the fourth quarter.    

 The collateral damage proved to be considerable, as shares of other personal-computer makers suffered steep declines. Shares of International Business Machines sank $6.31 to $93.50, while Hewlett-Packard, which insisted Thursday that its outlook remains intact, lost $2.94 to $31.63.    

 For a technology market already reeling from a wave of warnings about an inventory buildup for key products, and anxiety about what that would do to profit growth, the Gateway forecast, coupled with a warning from chip-maker Altera, caused a spasm of selling.    

 Intel lost $4.69 to $38.06, while Lattice Semiconductor, Cypress Semiconductor and Micron Technology also posted sharp losses. The Philadelphia Stock Exchange semiconductor index sank 6.8%.    

 Microsoft shed $7.69 to $57.38, weighing on the industrial average, and Cisco Systems also fell. But Oracle jumped $3.63 to $26.50.    

 Trading activity picked up markedly, with most of the activity on the downside. On the Nasdaq Stock Market, 2.7 billion shares changed hands, the second-busiest session ever, behind the 2.88 billion on April 4 this year. On the New York Stock Exchange, a total of 1.51 billion shares changed hands, just a few million shares below the record, also set April 4. "We came in, we were already in a very emotional time," said Brian Belski, chief fundamental analyst at U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray. "The earnings warnings gave the market a data point that it could overreact to."    

Document wsje000020010814dwc100i30
?
 

 Technology stocks dive as earnings fears return in London 

709 words
1 December 2000
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 LONDON, Dec 1 (AFP) - London-listed stocks came under the hammer again this week as fears of weaker corporate earnings and a slowdown of the US economy returned to haunt the market. 

 The rout in the technology sector continued apace, but there were signs by the end of the week that investors had started to weed out selected bargains from the bruised band of new economy blue chips. 

 The FTSE index of 100 leading shares closed the week a hefty 2.5 percent lower at 6,170.4 points. 

 The technology-focused techMARK index showed the extent of the damage inflicted on British technology companies, down 5.5 percent on the week at 2,594.73 points. 

 The focus shifted away from the political vacuum in the United States after each set of new data fueled market concerns that the US powerhouse could be heading for a hard landing. 

 The tech-rich Nasdaq set the trend again, tumbling to new lows of the year, causing technology issues to extend recent losses. 

 Three 'new economy' firms that swept into the FTSE 100 elite earlier this year face relegation next Wednesday, with a trio of companies rooted firmly in the old economy waiting in the wings to take their place. 

 But selected technology blue chips bounced back on Friday, paring some of their losses of the week, as investors encouraged by a Nasdaq rally picked over potential bargains. 

 Bookham Technology, one of the companies expected to exit the FTSE 100 next week, headed the familiar list of casualties in the battered technology sector. It fell 16.6 percent to 1,027 pence, despite making an impressive comeback on Friday. 

 Troubled computer consultancy Sema followed close behind, closing down 15.3 percent on the week at 300 pence. 

 Sema, which saw its market value halve last week after a profitwarning, was in the news again this week after ousting one of its directors accused of irregular share dealings. It too faces the boot from the FTSE 100 next week. 

 Among other technology companies, ARM Holdings shed 9.3 percent to 515 pence, Baltimore Technologies -- the third firm expected to leave the FTSE 100 -- ceded 9.5 percent to 341 pence, Spirent dropped ten percent to 530 pence, while Sage fared better, down 3.8 percent at 392.5 pence. 

 Some of the more well-established telecoms stocks were also up for sale. BT ended the week 5.8 percent lower at 619.5 pence, Cable and Wireless closed down 5.4 percent at 888 pence. Colt Telecom took an even harder pounding, falling 10.1 percent to 1,340 pence. 

 But some technology stocks were celebrating small gains by the end of the week. CMG edged up 3.2 percent to 955 pence, while Logica added two percent to 1,561 pence. 

 Marconi crept up 2.7 percent to 735 pence after posting a nine- precent increase in half-year pre-tax profits on Wednesday. 

 Oil issues were hit after oil prices eased. BP Amoco tumbled 8.2 percent to 549 pence, while Shell ceded 6.2 percent to 540 pence. 

 Among reporting companies, Granada media was among the scant winners of the week after wooing investors with an eight-percent increase in full-year operating profits on Wednesday, jumping nine percent to 399 pence. 

 Imperial Tobacco results were given a more lukewarm reception by the market. Its stock crept up one percent to 730 pence. 

 Great Universal Stores closed the week barely changed at 529 pence after announcing plans to float a slice of its Burberry business while posting its own results. 

 Tesco slipped 0.9 percent to 272.5 percent after its interim trading statement. 

 Bank of Scotland was in the news after it said it was in takeover talks with Ireland's state-owned ICC bank, but the announcement failed to impress investors and its share price dropped 4.8 percent to 680 pence. 

 Among the trio expected to rejoin the FTSE 100 index next week, Safeway dipped 2.7 percent to 319 pence, AB Foods advanced 5.6 percent to 485.75 pence, while Scottish and Newcastle edged up 1.5 percent to 521.75 pence. 

 dr/djw 

Document afpr000020010803dwc105315
?
Newscast: Business news and stock report   

326 words
1 December 2000
CBS News: The Early Show
CBST
English
(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

BRYANT GUMBEL, co-host:   

At 7:18, let's get a damage assessment from Wall Street, our MarketWatch report. Here's Alexis Christoforous.   

ALEXIS CHRISTOFOROUS reporting:   

Thanks very much, Bryant. Well, it looks like the bargain hunters may step in when the market opens this morning following some big gains in Asia and Europe. In Tokyo overnight, the Nikkei rose more than 1 percent.   

(Graphic on screen)   

CBS MarketWatch cbs.marketwatch.com   

Tokyo-Nikkei Average   

14,835.33 up 186.82   

up 1.26%   

CHRISTOFOROUS: And investors have to be happy to put November behind them. It was one of the most brutal months in recent memory for the NASDAQ, which lost 23 percent of its value in the past four weeks, and is off 50 percent for the year.   

On Thursday, the Dow tanked 214 points to 10,414...   

(Graphic on screen)   

CBS MarketWatch cbs.marketwatch.com   

Dow Jones Industrials   

10,414.49 down 214.62   

CHRISTOFOROUS: ...while the NASDAQ gave up another 109 points.   

(Graphic on screen)   

CBS MarketWatch cbs.marketwatch.com   

NASDAQ   

2,597.93 down 109.00   

CHRISTOFOROUS: An earnings warning from Gateway opened the floodgates. Shares of the PC maker were nearly sliced in half.   

On our Stocks to Watch list, Pepsi is reportedly jumping back in the battle for Quaker Oats.   

(Graphic on screen)   

CBS MarketWatch cbs.marketwatch.com   

STOCKS TO WATCH   

Pepsi (PEP)   

CHRISTOFOROUS: A $14 billion takeover offer could be announced as early as Monday. And  Micron Electronics is sounding a profit warning.   

(Graphic on screen)   

CBS MarketWatch cbs.marketwatch.com   

STOCKS TO WATCH   

Micron Electronics (MUEI)   

CHRISTOFOROUS: Micron blames soft PC sales for the shortfall. And coffee drinkers must have been on a caffeine high last month.   

(Graphic on screen)   

CBS MarketWatch cbs.marketwatch.com   

STOCKS TO WATCH   

Starbucks (SBUX)   

CHRISTOFOROUS:  Starbucks says sales in November jumped 11 percent.   

For more, just head to cbs.marketwatch.com, or AOL, keyword MarketWatch.   

Document CBST000020070818dwc1006km
?
 Smaller Company Annual Reports: MAGNUM POWER - MGP - Provider Of Power 

323 words
1 December 2000
Investors Chronicle
INVR
70
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 Investors Chronicle; Source: World Reporter (TM) 


Ord price: 18.5p                 Market value: GBP18.5m*
Touch: 17-20p                    12 month High: 71p   Low: 18.25p
Dividend yield: nil              PE ratio: na
Net asset value: 3p*             Net cash: GBP1.31m*
* Adjusted for subsequent placing
Year to     Turnover     Pre-tax       Stated earnings    Net div per
31 May      GBP000         profit (GBPm)   per share (p)      share (p)
1996          627        -3.18         -6.41              nil
1997          643        -2.76         -4.48              nil
1998          977        -2.11         -2.95              nil
1999          868        -1.45         -1.52              nil
2000        1,956        -1.11         -1.17              nil
% change    +125         -             -23                -
Market makers: 5     Traded on Aim
Last IC comment: 3 March 2000, page 77


 Magnum designs Bi-UPS or built-in uninterruptible power supplies that enable computers to cope with power failure and voltage sags. Its results have certainly got better since it ditched a policy of demanding licences to make its products in favour of royalty agreements. The rise in 1999-00 turnover reflects that switch. Last year's loss was, however, higher than expected and was heralded by a profit warning in June. The main cause was lower-than- anticipated sales of bought-in ordinary power supplies. The turnover from them was nothing in 1998-99, GBP500,000 in the first six months of last year and nothing in the following half year as European PC makers relocated to China. In June Magnum also raised GBP1.18m via a placing at 26p a share to expand marketing and technical support to potential Bi-UPS licensees. The success of one sales team on the US East Coast has led Magnum to set up two more US sales teams covering the Mid-West and West Coast. The outlook for 2000-01 and beyond is encouraging and company broker Williams de Broe forecasts a reduced loss this year of GBP330,000 on sharply higher sales of GBP4.8m. 

Document invr000020010807dwc10002x
?
 

 MARKET TALK/Europe: Roundup Of Stocks, Mkt Activity 

1,350 words
1 December 2000
15:01
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Call Us In London: 44-207-842-9297 

 1455 GMT (Dow Jones) PARIS--LVMH (LVMHY) down on fears of slowdown in US economy. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter recommended sell on the luxury sector at the beginning of this week; LVMH shares have declined over 9% in the past four sessions. The escalating legal battle with Pinault Printemps (F.PPR) is also putting some investors off, says trader. Shares down 3.1%. (MJK) 

 1453 GMT (Dow Jones) ZURICH--HSBC upgrades Ciba (Z.CSC) to Add from Hold with a target price at CHF130. HSBC says appraised value shows a premium of around 30% justified on the grounds of value creation in 2001, with above average earnings growth of 8%. Ciba is down 0.7% at CHF102.8. (ALI) 

 1452 GMT (Dow Jones) FRANKFURT--DAX inching higher after strong start to trade in US. German index up 2.1% at 6503.47 and seen testing 6550 resistance as investors covering short positions push selected stocks higher. Recently battered SAP (SAP) up 6.9% with ThyssenKrupp (G.TKP) up 5.6% on Merrill Lynch upgrade. (DRS) 

 1450 GMT (Dow Jones) AMSTERDAM--VersaTel (VRSA) could fall to EUR5.00 in a few weeks though should find some support EUR10.00, ING technical analyst says. VersaTel is at EUR11.00, down 4.4%. (HDG) 

 1447 GMT (Dow Jones) LONDON--Barclays (BCS) analyst meeting positive, says Kitty Andrew, analyst at ING Barings Charterhouse. Adds, allayed fears that bank could have problem with bad debt, and Barclays Capital which many hadn't known much about, looks good. Matthew Barret, CEO, categorically denied rumors of merger with Abbey National (ANBA, U.ANL), said "definitely not going to buy a mortgage bank." (AJM) 

 1444 GMT (Dow Jones) PARIS--Trader at major French bank sees upside for Vivendi (F.VVN). Says shares are oversold. "The shares have been treated like a telecom company and the uncertainties of the Seagram (VO) merger have been fully discounted," he adds. Shares up 1.3% at EUR53.70. (MJK) 

 1440 GMT (Dow Jones) AMSTERDAM--Philips (PHG) is likely to fall to between EUR28.00 to EUR30.00 in coming months and investors should use any rally from this point to EUR45.00 to sell. Analyst adds it is being identified with computer chip sector. Philips is at EUR39.88, up 4.9%. (HDG) 

 1435 GMT (Dow Jones) AMSTERDAM--Getronics (N.GET) should bottom out around EUR5.00 and EUR6.00 after. "The stock doesn't look good now on the chart but it will bottom out and start recovering in the coming months," ING technical analyst says. Getronics is at EUR6.10, up 1.7% but down from EUR12.30 before its profit warning last week. (HDG) 

 1433 GMT (Dow Jones) PARIS--Bull's (F.BUL) restructuring plans fail to convince market and shares seen recovering slightly after hitting all-time low of EUR5.10 says trader. Credit Lyonnais analyst maintains reduce. "The company is bound to be a long-term dog," adds trader. Shares -6.1% at EUR5.80. (MJK) 

 1431 GMT (Dow Jones) MADRID--Telefonica Moviles (TEM) +4.5% amid overall market recovery, but seen unlikely to edge higher than EUR11. Stock still lacks interest from retail investors and funds, says trader in Madrid. Brokerage Inverseguros sees Moviles' "fundamental value" at EUR14.86. (CZH) 

 1430 GMT (Dow Jones) ZURICH--Credit Suisse First Boston starts coverage of Rieter (Z.RIE) with hold rating. Rieter +1.35%. (ALI) 

 1426 GMT (Dow Jones)ZURICH--SMI +0.7% has woken up from morning lethargy. Buying orders from oversea investors boost banks, a trader says. UBS (Z.UBS) +3.2%, Credit Suisse (Z.CSG) +2%. (ALI) 

 1423 GMT (Dow Jones) FRANKFURT--Neuer Markt and Nasdaq listed BroadVision (BVSN) down 2.3% at EUR25.49 after having made substantial gains earlier with the share as high as EUR29.30. Credit-Suisse First Boston rumored to have cut trating to buy from strong buy on worries over licencse revenue. Analyst not available to comment as yet. (DRS) 

 1418 GMT (Dow Jones) LONDON--FTSE 100, down 0.7 points at 6141.5, slips into the red for the first time today as nervous investors employ a 'wait and see' strategy ahead of the US open. Nasdaq futures, which had been up around 80 points earlier in the day, are up 40 points. Further falls in pharmaceutical and oil stocks have been compounded by an easing in telecommunication stocks. (NPB) 

 1415 GMT (Dow Jones) MADRID--IBEX-35 +1.3% at 9334.30. "All eyes are on the Nasdaq," says trader and adds stronger opening of US markets will lift IBEX-35 above 9400 resistance. Nuevo Mercado, +4.9% at 4285.3 continues to push market up, with strong but volatile Terra Lycos (TRLY) +6.1%. (CZH) 

 1401 GMT (Dow Jones)ZURICH--Zuercher Kantonalbank downgrades Verwaltungs- und Privatbank (Z.VPB) to underperform from marketperform. VPB -2.7%. (ALI) 

 1355 GMT (Dow Jones) DUBLIN--Irish banking stocks rally on slew of heavy upgrades for Anglo Irish Bank (U.AIB) after strong FY earnings this week and next Thursday's pre-results trading update from Allied Irish Banks (AIB), expected to be very bullish. "No one wants to be short financials ahead of Christmas," says trader at NCB Stockbrokers. ISEQ Financials index up 2.3% at 7644.90. (DLM) 

 1351 GMT (Dow Jones) VIENNA--ATX up 1.1% at 1077.38 points, seen closing at 1078 points. Market is mixed with a few heavyweights pulling up the market. Bank Austria (R.BKA) up 3.4%, leading. (KOM) 

 1346 GMT (Dow Jones) NEW YORK--The question many are asking Friday is "Where is the bottom?" Few, if any, think that Thursday's losses represent the lowest of the lows; however, there is some reason to be optimistic. Anderson & Strudwick strategist Kent Engelke points out that December is historically the strongest month of the year and that the averages have advanced in 37 of the last 50 Decembers. (GS) 

 1343 GMT (Dow Jones) FRANKFURT--DAX up over 2% ahead of US open with Nasdaq futures pointed around 50 points higher. SAP (SAP), share beaten down lowest in recent tech turmoil now leads gainers up 7%. Heavily pressured DaimlerChrysler (DCX) up 4.3%, also in short-squeeze. Sentiment remains bearish, market expected to see further weakness.(DRS) 

 1336 GMT (Dow Jones) NEW YORK--December has to be better than November, right? But didn't the market think the same thing after October? Well, at least December looks like its going to start strong. Futures are up significantly, indicating a nice bounce at the beginning. For the record, the Nasdaq fell almost 23% in November, its worst month since October 1987. The S&P 500 fell 8% in November, and DJIA lost 5.1%. The government isn't releasing the November unemployment report until next week, so the only new economic data Friday is the November NAPM business survey index and the October Construction Spending report, both scheduled for 1500 GMT. 

 1330 GMT (Dow Jones) PARIS--Steel maker Usinor (F.USN) +3.7% or EUR 0.45 to EUR12.66, three-week high. Gains seen underpinned by peer upgrades; Merrill Lynch ups Voest-Alpine Stahl (R.VAS) to accumulate from neutral, ups Thyssen Krupp (G.TKP) to neutral from reduce. (GLK) 

 1328 GMT (Dow Jones)ZURICH--Warrants on tech play Kudelski (Z.KUD) and insurer Swiss Re (Z.REI) are hot. KUDZO and KUDL series on Kudelski active as underlying seesaws. With many Swiss Re derivatives such as RUKXX, RUKOR, RUKU and RUKIT expiring in the near term, rollovers seen into RUKKO, RUKXL, dealer says. (MGE) 


1326 GMT (Dow Jones) COPENHAGEN--Danish GN Store Nord (K.GNS) +6.7% at
DKK 128. Trader says shr is rebounding with other tech stocks on Nasdaq
future, which predicts US mkts opening positive. Low volume makes trader
say that "real investors have fled mkt, now there are only mkt makers
left." (MRY)
DOW JONES NEWS  12-01-00



10:01 AM


Document dj00000020010805dwc104gf8

Search Summary

 Text	((“profit*” same “warning*”) or ("disappoint*" same "result*") or ("decreas*" same "profit*") or ("compan*" same "downturn*") or ("unexpect*" same "loss*"))
 Date	12/01/2000 to 12/31/2000
 Source	All Sources
 Author	All Authors
 Company	All Companies
 Subject	 Not Corporate/Industrial News
 Industry	All Industries
 Region	United States
 Language	English
 Results Found	241
 Timestamp	29 March 2018 10:30

 Page 2 of 2     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

