 
•	 Investors inspired by US blue-chips revival; MARKET REPORT  
•	  Dow closes strong but chartists still worried. 
•	  Time-Share-Resort Concern Sunterra Names New CEO, President 
•	  WALL ST WEEKAHEAD-Bulls pray for buy on the dip rally. 
•	  A New York Times article warning of perchloroethylene risks has been disputed. 
•	  The AFP 2200 GMT news advisory 
•	  Kellogg Company - President & CEO Interview on Nightly Business Report 
•	  Angry home fuel customers threaten N.H. dealer who promised cut rates 
•	  Customers who paid for cut-rate heating oil feel betrayed 
•	  Customers who paid for cut-rate heating oil feel betrayed 
•	  Customers who paid for cut-rate heating oil feel betrayed 
•	 Ready for another stab at the brakes?
•	  MARKET SAVVY Treasuries Hit by Weak Bids; Blue Chips Lag, Nasdaq Soars 
•	  Nasdaq flies to record - blue chips sag on rate fear. 
•	  Dell Computer Reports Earnings In Line With Last Month's Warning 
•	  POWER LUNCH - Humana, Incorporated - CEO - Interview 
•	 ANSYS PROMOTES CASHMAN; COMPANY'S INCOME CLIMBS 
•	 BREAKFAST BRIEFING // CHICAGO 
•	  SmartPortfolio.Com Announces Investment Opinion 
•	  THE DAY ON WALL STREET: Earnings performance, split of stock fuel surge by Cisco 
•	  NEW CEO HOPES TO HEAL HUMANA STRUGGLING TO REVERSE PLUNGING PROFIT, HUMANA ALSO WILL SELL A LONGWOOD UNIT. 
•	  Lycos -  President & CEO Interview on Nightly Business Report 
•	  TECH WEEK IN REVIEW: Politics And Online Wine Merchants 
•	  Cupid and People2People.com Reveal What Men and Women Really Want for Valentine's Day; Yankelovich Survey Says Romantic Weekend Away is Top...



Investors inspired by US blue-chips revival; MARKET REPORT  

MICHAEL CLARK  
631 words
29 February 2000
The Evening Standard
NS
B
48
English
(c) 2000 Associated Newspapers. All rights reserved  

INVESTORS appeared to have the bit between the teeth again today as they made the most of last night's switch in New York out of technology companies and into the bread-and-butter blue chips.  

They chose to ignore the sharp fall of more than 60 points in the hi-tech Nasdaq market and instead concentrated on the 176-point gain for the Dow Jones. But brokers complained that the mark-up of blue-chip share prices in London lacked substance. It was doubtful that the market could maintain the early pace, they said.  

Despite this the FT-SE 100 index posted a gain of 50.4 at 6150.0.  

Financials led the way higher with solid performances from Alliance & Leicester, up 32p to 550p, Royal Bank of Scotland, up 40p at 800p, CGU, 33 1/2p to 743 1/2p, Abbey National, 29p to 674p, NatWest, 36p to 1165p, and Lloyds TSB, 14 1/2p to 554p. Financials accounted for 10 of the top 20 best movers among the leaders.  

US securities house Goldman Sachs continues to push shares of Vodafone Air-Touch, 1 3/4p firmer at 344 1/2p. The shares are included in its "Europe Recommended List" with a target price of 500p. Goldman is confident the target will be reached as the company re-rates to reflect its increasingly internet-based business model.  

Cable & Wireless fell 85 1/2p to 1260p as Pacific Century Cyberworks won the battle for control of its 54% owned subsidiary Hong Kong Telecom.  

Good news for The Mirror's editor Piers Morgan, who found himself considerably richer this morning after shares in Corporate Executive Search returned from suspension 52p higher at 58p. He is reported to have paid Pounds 10,000, or 5p each, for 200,000 shares, the day before they were suspended pending the acquisition of DataCash for almost Pounds 10 million. This deal effectively doubles the size of CES and means that Morgan's holding is now worth a cool Pounds 116,000.  

T Chapman Group came down to earth with a bump, finishing 160p down at 407 1/2p on the back of a profits warning. The company now admits things have not gone as swimmingly as it thought, despite improved trading conditions at its TCA Consulting division. The information and technology systems group is now forecasting only a small operating profit for the first six months of last year and cannot calculate earnings during the second half.  

AIM-listed freecom.net celebrated its linkup with computer giant Compaq with a leap of 60p to 427 1/2p. Freecom.net will provide Compaq with its eCommerce starter products aimed at the small to medium sized corporate market. Elsewhere on the hi-tech front, shareholders were enjoying the fruits of their investments in Forbidden Technology following a placing at 20p. The company that has developed video compression technology raced up to 295p before settling at 285p, a premium of 265p.  

AIM-listed Minorplanet Systems put on 12 1/2p to 670p after appointing Prudential's chairman Sir Martin Jacomb as a non-executive director.  

Shares of Pascoe's Group were suspended at 90 1/2p while it thrashed out details of a deal that will take the pet and animal food manufacturer on to the world wide web.  

The deal if it is concluded will effectively be a reverse takeover and will be good news for shareholders, but not so hot for Tiddles curled up in front of the fire.  

lPrices and indices in this section are supplied from various sources and calculated at different times and may not always match those listed in the tables. Ofex prices relate to the previous close.  

949698699

Document NS00000020061019dw2t008g8




 Dow closes strong but chartists still worried. 

 By Jennifer Westhoven 
706 words
28 February 2000
23:52
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Feb 28 (Reuters) - The Dow Jones industrial average is not out of the woods yet by any stretch of the imagination, despite its strong showing and close on Monday, several analysts who track chart patterns said. 

 Technical analysts, who predict the future movements of prices by mapping price charts, said it was a positive sign that the Dow's close at 10,038, up 176 points, was above support levels of roughly 9,950. 

 The also Dow closed over 10,000, a session after it closed below that level for the first time since April 1999, drawing widespread media attention and comments from prominent stock market watchers. 

 But Chartists said the average would have to hold on to those gains for them to guess if the rally was a sign of latent strength for blue-chip stocks or just a short-term reversal. 

 "We don't have any signs of stability yet," said Louise Yamada, vice president of technical research at Salomon Smith Barney, referring to blue-chip stocks. 

 In the past six weeks, the Dow has erased nearly 1700 points, or 14 percent, from its closing high, with stocks beset by worries the Federal Reserve plans to keep raising interest rates gradually to avert potential inflation in the hot U.S. economy. 

 "Many of the individual stocks are breaking support levels. The problem with rising interest rates is, it's affecting the already-struggling old-tech industrials and not the the high-tech stocks," Yamada said. 

 Other Chartists voiced similar concerns the "old-economy" stocks, meaning those not on the hot Internet bandwagon, may have some more steep slides ahead, including Ralph Acampora, the top technical analyst at Prudential and one of Wall Street's best-known Chartists. 

 "The most visible index in our business is the Dow Jones Industrial average. On Friday, this indicator broke below its important 10,000 level," Acampora wrote on Prudential's Website (www.prusec.com). 

 "Such a move will most likely cause some psychological concern that could spill over into other issues. This comes as no surprise to us - the "old economy" stocks have been under pressure recently and are likely to see more of the same. Hence the Dow Jones industrial average (DJIA) will continue to be very choppy," he wrote. "Rallies from current levels are expected, but are not considered sustainable at this time." 

 Despite the near-and intermediate-term concern, Acampora's long-term outlook remains "very optimistic." He is currently working on a book exploring what he terms "mega bull markets." He was not immediately available for comment. 

 A major chart headache, according to some technical analysts, is that, below 9,950, the next major support level for the Dow is hundreds of points away, between 9,063 and 9,200. Fundamentally, analysts are concerned there are few positive economic and profit reports on the horizon and profit-warning season kicks off in mid-March. 

 Gregory Nie, a Chartist at First Union Securities in Chicago, said he was willing to "gingerly and nimbly" position for a short-term rally, saying there signs of a near-term bottom, especially since the Dow held the support zone just under 10,000 points. But he forecasts a year of up-and-down motion for the Dow overall, so the rally could be erased in the not-so-distant future. 

 "Momentum is still up for now, although the downside has a much more credible technical case than in the recent past," he said. "So the short-term rally will not likely take care of all the technical negatives, but it should be a tradable move." 

 Selling briefly knocked the average below 10,000 in October trading, but the average always managed to close above that level. Analysts have been cautious to say that the 10,000 mark is important mostly for market psychology. 

 "Support is only a sentimental word in a falling market, said Harry Laubscher, market analyst at Tucker Anthony. On Friday, he forecast a rebound for blue chips early this week, but said he still thinks a bear-market trend is in place. 

 ((Wall Street Desk +1 212 859 1881)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw2s06apf




 Time-Share-Resort Concern Sunterra Names New CEO, President 

242 words
28 February 2000
19:35
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Sunterra Corp., a time-share-resort operator that issued a profit warning last month, named a new president and chief executive officer. 

 Orlando, Fla.-based Sunterra (OWN) named J. Taylor Crandall interim chairman and T. Lincoln Morison president and co-chief executive, as well as a member of its board. Crandall, who has been on the company's board since October 1997, succeeds current co-chairmen Jody Gessow and Steve Kenninger, both of whom will remain directors. 

 Morison, 59 years old, will share the CEO post with Richard Harrington, who was named CEO in January to replace L. Steven Miller. After a transitional period, Harrington will return to Europe, where he is CEO of Sunterra's European subsidiary. 

 Last month, shares of Sunterra plunged after it said earnings for the fourth quarter fall well short of analyst estimates and said it would take a charge for the year of $38 million to $45 million for "delinquent receivables." 

 After the warning, analysts lowered their investment ratings, Standard & Poor's said it may lower its debt ratings and a shareholder lawsuit seeking class-action status was filed. The suit alleges the company and some of its senior officers and directors issued false and misleading statements about the company's financial condition and artificially inflated the company's stock price. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dw2s013zm




 WALL ST WEEKAHEAD-Bulls pray for buy on the dip rally. 

736 words
27 February 2000
19:50
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Feb 27 (Reuters) - Stock market bulls are praying for a 'buy-on-the-dip' rally this week after one of Wall Street's oldest and most beloved gauges, the Dow Jones industrial average, fell below the 10,000 watermark. 

 But many analysts, both those who follow fundamentals and those who watch chart patterns, say the Dow has more losses ahead of it, even if an early-week rally materialises, especially with few positive economic and profit reports on the horizon, and profit-warning season around the corner. 

 Last week, the 30-stock Dow fell 357.40 points, or 3.5 percent, to 9862.12 for the week, leaving blue-chip investors licking their wounds while analysts said the Nasdaq could be reloading for another salvo. 

 The technology-stacked index rise 178.76 points for the week. And despite all the bearish talk for blue chips, the small-cap Russell 2000 Index quietly edged near a new high. 

 "The stock market is never interested in what a company did, it is interested in what they are going to do," said Jeffrey Applegate, Lehman's chief investment strategist. 

 "One of the things hurting a lot of stocks is that we have this ongoing advent of the virtual economy," he said. 

 Allen Sinai, chief global economist at Primark Decision Economics said the outperformance made sense, because "the small, high-growth companies in Nasdaq are getting stronger by the day and taking market share from old-economy companies." 

 The massive bifurcation has burnished Nasdaq's image as a bulwark amid interest-rate fears and put a new phrase on the lips of Wall Street pundits: "old-economy stocks". The phrase has been used to refer essentially to any company not on the white-hot, "new-economy" Internet bandwagon. 

 "You have a divide between old-economy and new-economy stocks. People have gotten used to making money in tech stocks, and they are willing to sell the old-economy stocks to buy the new-economy stocks," said Rao Chalasani, chief investment strategist, First Union Securities, Chicago. 

 The Dow's dip has erased 1700 points or 14.2 percent from its closing high set six weeks ago. 

 The selling meant the Dow closed below the 10,000 level for the first time since April 1999. The Dow was briefly knocked back below 10,000 in October trading but managed to close above that level. Analysts have been cautious to say that the 10,000 mark is important mostly for market psychology. 

 Technical analysts were more worried about whether the Dow will decisively break the 9,900-support level. The next major support level is hundreds of points below that, at 9,200. 

 "Support is only a sentimental word in a falling market, said Harry Laubscher, market analyst at Tucker Anthony. He expects a bounceback for blue chips early this week, although he said he believes a bear market trend is in place. 

 Sinai was also bearish. "We have a full-fledged correction in the Dow and the S&P and it's not over," he said. "The momentum is down." 

 On the calendar next week are earnings from some retailers, including Target Corp, formerly called Dayton-Hudson, high-end jeweller Tiffany & Co. Inc., TJX Cos Inc., Costco Wholesale Corp., and Staples Inc., according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 There are also some economic reports, including January personal income and consumption numbers, a report on manufacturing activity and prices, and monthly wage and unemployment data. 

 "Looking into next week, if we get a knock-your-socks-off employment number ... the market is going to go down some more," said Lehman's Applegate, because the market may start to forecast even more future rate hikes beyond two 25-basis-point interest-rate hikes already priced into the bond market. 

 Still, there was some hope that with blue-chip stocks cooling their heels, that might take some pressure to raise rates off the Fed, whose Chairman Alan Greenspan has publicly worried about the wealth effect. 

 "My gut feeling is there is a sensitive linkage between the interest-rate market and the stock market, so it won't really take a big amount of tightening to get equities to a level... where the Fed is more comfortable," said Kathleen Camilli, director of economic research at Tucker Anthony. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw2r06501


 A New York Times article warning of perchloroethylene risks has been disputed. 

239 words
24 February 2000
Pesticide & Toxic Chemical News
PENW
ISSN 0146-0501; Volume 28; Issue 18
English
 Copyright 2000 Information Access Company. All rights reserved. COPYRIGHT 2000 Food Chemical News, Inc. 

 A New York Times article warning of perchloroethylene risks has been disputed in an American Council on Science and Health editorial.  The Times notes that a 1985 National Cancer Institute study on the widely used dry cleaning chemical showed that it could induce liver cancer in mice. However, says ACSH, "while laboratory tests can provide some indication of whether a compound is a potential carcinogen in humans, these tests are never conclusive for predicting human cancer risk." If the risk is genuine, the New York City-based non-profit group continues, "one would expect to see increased cancer rates among dry-cleaning workers who are exposed to significant levels of perc. Some studies have found a slight increase in cancer mortality for dry-cleaning workers, but other studies suggest this increase could be the result of other environmental and behavioral factors. 

  So, one might ask why the New York Times article did not clarify that it was referring to rodent studies, not human studies, when examining a perc-cancer risk. This is not to say perc is harmless, but [stating] that appropriately used perc is unsafe is not based in scientific reality." 

FULL TEXT Food Chemical News, Inc. THIS IS THE FULL TEXT: COPYRIGHT 2000 Food Chemical News, Inc. Subscription: $957.00 per year. Published weekly. 1725 K St., N.W., Ste 506, Washington, DC 20006-1401.

Document penw000020010809dw2o00043




 The AFP 2200 GMT news advisory 

997 words
24 February 2000
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 Feb 24  (AFP) - Duty editor: Carlos Hamann 

 Tel: Washington (202) 414-0541 

 TOP WORLD NEWS STORIES 

 AUSTIN, Texas: Lawyers for a 62-year-old grandmother on death row for the murder of her fifth husband filed a last ditch appeal at the Supreme Court in an effort to prevent her execution. 

 BRUSSELS: NATO officials and ambassadors prepare for a special meeting to decide whether to send more troops to Kosovo as contradictions emerge among the top brass over the need to beef up the multi-national peace-keeping force. 

 LEGASPI, Philippines: Mayon volcano erupts in the eastern Philippines, forcing at least 18,000 people to flee their homes while experts warn the bursts could last several weeks. 

 KADUNA, Nigeria 

 Nigerian troops begin gathering up the bodies of hundreds of victims of religious riots which have shaken the country as tens of thousands of residents flee this city. 

 WASHINGTON: The peace process in North Ireland is weathering a "deep crisis," a leader of Sinn Fein, political wing of the Irish Republican Army, said. 

 FILING PLANS BY REGION 

 -- EUROPE -- 

 Kosovo-NATO,lead 

 BRUSSELS 

 NATO prepares for a special meeting to decide whether to send more troops to Kosovo, amid apparent contradictions among top brass over the need to beef up the multinational force there. 

 700 words moved by Robert MacPherson 

 We have also moved: Kosovo-KFOR-troops 

 Chechnya,2ndlead 

 GROZNY, Russia 

 Russian troops inch closer to the last bastion of Chechen rebel resistance, but acting President Vladimir Putin hints at a brighter future for the shattered republic once Moscow has won the war. 

 700 words moved by Dmitry Surtsev 

 We have also moved: Chechnya-Russia-Poland,2ndlead 

 Austria-EU-Haider,2ndlead 

 VIENNA 

 Vienna hits back at the European Union's isolation of Austria, with Chancellor Wolfgang Schuessel and far-right leader Joerg Haider attacking the sanctions in separate press interviews. 

 550 words moved 

 We have also moved: Austria-demo 

 NIreland-US,lead 

 WASHINGTON 

 The peace process in North Ireland is weathering a "deep crisis," a leader of Sinn Fein, political wing of the Irish Republican Army, says here. 

 400 words moved 

 Turkey-Kurds,2ndlead 

 ANKARA 

 A Turkish court slaps heavy prison sentences on leaders of the country's main Kurdish party, prompting renewed EU concern over Turkey's commitment to democracy. 

 650 words moved by Hande Culpan and Burak Akinci 

 Dutch-Britain-Reed,4thlead 

 AMSTERDAM 

 Anglo-Dutch publisher Reed Elsevier reports that 1999 pre-tax profit fell by six percent to 1.079 billion euros (dollars) from 1.150 billion euros in 1998 and issued a profit warning for the current year. 

 600 words moved 

 -- AMERICAS -- 

 US-Texas-execution,2ndlead 

 AUSTIN, Texas 

 Lawyers for a 62-year-old grandmother on death row for the murder of her fifth husband were filing a last ditch appeal at the Supreme Court in an effort to prevent her execution scheduled for later in the day, according to a spokeswoman at her defense. 

 700 words by 2215 GMT J.D. Riviere 

 US-Iran-Russia,2ndlead 

 WASHINGTON 

 Seeking to "send a message" to Moscow and Tehran, the US Senate unanimously passed a bill aimed at punishing countries deemed to be aiding Iran's efforts to acquire weapons of mass destruction. 

 550 words around 2230 GMT by Olivier Knox 

 US-Cuba-bail 

 MIAMI 

 A federal judge refused to free on bail a senior US immigration official suspected of spying for Cuba after prosecutors argued that he could flee to Havana. 

 400 words moved 

 US-Colombia,sched 

 WASHINGTON 

 Top US officials urge Congress to accept a massive hike in aid to Bogota for its war against drug traffickers, as a senior Pentagon official advises against conditioning the funds on elimination by the Colombian military of its ties with illegal right-wing paramilitary groups. 

 600 words around 2300 GMT by Luis Torres de la Llosa. Pictures. 

 -- AFRICA -- 

 UN-DRCongo,newseries 

 UNITED NATIONS 

 The Security Council decides to send up to 5,537 United Nations troops to monitor the ceasefire in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), but UN officials stress this will not be a peacekeeping operation. 

 600 words around 2315 GMT by Robert Holloway 

 Nigeria-Islam,2ndlead 

 KADUNA, Nigeria 

 Nigerian troops begin gathering up the bodies of hundreds of victims of religious riots which have shaken the country as tens of thousands of residents flee this city. 

 650 words moved by Peter Cunliffe-Jones 

 Mozambique-floods,2ndlead 

 MAPUTO 

 At least 84 people died this month in Mozambique's worst natural disasters in nearly 50 years, but government officials say the final death toll is likely to be much higher. 

 500 words moved by Evaristo Cumbane 

 -- MIDDLE EAST -- 

 Egypt-pope,4thlead 

 CAIRO 

 Pope John Paul II calls for Middle East peace and religious harmony as he begins the first papal visit to Egypt, meeting Muslim and Christian Orthodox leaders. 

 650 words moved by Peter King. Pictures 

 Israel-Lebanon-Syria,lead 

 JERUSALEM 

 Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak defends his Foreign Minister David Levy despite howls of protest at home and abroad for his fiery threats of revenge   attacks on neighbouring Lebanon. 

 700 words moved by Tanya Wilmer 

 Israel-France,lead 

 JERUSALEM 

 French Prime Minister Lionel Jospin says he is convinced of Israel's desire for peace despite the protracted stalemate on all fronts that has raised the ire of the Jewish state's Arab neighbours. 

 650 words moved by Jean-Luc Bardet 

 -- ASIA -- 

 Philippines-volcano,5thlead 

 LEGASPI, Philippines 

 More than 18,000 people flee their homes as Mayon volcano in the eastern Philippines erupts, spewing out a vast cloud of superhot ash as scientists warned of more deadly blasts. 

 650 words moved 

 We have also moved: Philippines-volcano-scene 

 China-Taiwan 

 BEIJING 

 China rejects US criticism of its threats to use force against Taiwan, accusing Washington of interfering in its internal affairs and increasing tension across the Taiwan Strait with arms sales. 

 700 words moved 

 We have also moved: China-Taiwan-candidates, China-Taiwan- background, China-Taiwan-chrono, China-Taiwan-analysis. 

 afp 

Document afpr000020010803dw2o00u3b


 Business 
 Kellogg Company - President & CEO Interview on Nightly Business Report 

 Paul Kangas, Susie Gharib 
4,519 words
23 February 2000
23:30
Nightly Business Report
NBR
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 PAUL KANGAS: The technology stocks head skyward again, as the NASDAQ hits a new record high on a gain of almost 170 points. But it comes at the expense of the blue chips, as the Dow closes off almost 80 points. Good evening. I`m Paul Kangas in Miami. 

 SUSIE GHARIB: And I`m Susie Gharib in New York City. Fed Chief Alan Greenspan repeats his message to Congress: the economy is growing too fast. Then we`ll tell you why this idyllic village in England is on the cutting edge of Internet technology thanks to American financing. 

 GHARIB: Good evening, everyone. An explosive rally for the NASDAQ today: it posted its biggest one-day, 168-points, and scored another record high. But the money flowed out of the big blue chips: the Dow lost about 80 points. Investors not only watched the action on Wall Street but also in Washington: it was day two of Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan`s economic report to Congress. And as Dennis Moore reports, round two focused productivity, and the so-called wealth effect. 

 DENNIS MOORE, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: In the hearing room today, right up front to get a close look at the Fed chairman in action, a whole college economics class. And what they saw was "Professor Greenspan" dealing with an unusually unruly bunch of senators. 

 SENATOR, JIM BUNNING, KENTUCKY -R: Why do we want to contain the growth and wealth effect in this country? 

 MOORE: Greenspan claimed the Fed was not alarmed about, and not trying to contain either the economic growth rate, or stock market prices. 

 ALAN GREENSPAN, CHAIRMAN, FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD: Nothing that I envisage as far as monetary policy... is some form of putting the brakes on the system, which brings the economy to a roaring halt. 

 MOORE: Well then what`s all this stuff we`ve been hearing about productivity and stock market wealth driving up consumer spending and threatening inflation, the senators wanted to know. 

 SENATOR, PAUL SARBANES, MARYLAND (D): There is this whole new theory being laid out here, as I sort of see it, that is going to justify raising the rates, curtailing the economy when there is no inflation, there is no unit labor cost problem, and it`s all being done on the basis of this kind of wealth effect. 

 GREENSPAN: It`s not a theory. It is merely an analysis of what in fact is happening. 

 MOORE: Most important, Greenspan says, is the size of the wealth effect, the ratio of wealth to family income, that`s been created by the high-tech and stock market booms. For decades, it didn`t matter. 

 GREENSPAN: It`s relatively flat and then it all of a sudden spikes. 

 MOORE: And now what Greenspan calls the buffers against inflation-imports and new entrants into the labor market-may be losing their effectiveness. It`s a new economy and it requires a new kind of monetary policy, Greenspan finally said today. But the "professor" hasn`t entirely convinced the "classes" either in Washington or in Wall Street. Dennis Moore, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, Washington. 

 GHARIB: Also tonight, Federal Reserve Governor Edward Kelley is in the hospital after undergoing successful surgery to remove a blockage in his heart. He should be released next week, and is expected to attend the Fed`s next Open Market Committee meeting on March 21. 

 KANGAS: Fed Chief Greenspan`s repeated warning about the potential for inflation because of the economy`s continuing strength stopped yesterday`s blue chip rally in its tracks this morning as the Dow Industrial Average gave back all of Tuesday`s 85 point gain by 10:00 a.m. The high-tech stocks, however, resumed yesterday`s late upturn as the NASDAQ Index surged 48 points by 11:00 a.m. A sell-off in bond prices kept the blue chips on the defensive, as morning trading progressed with the Industrial Average falling to a 121 point loss at 11:30 a.m., while demand for the tech sector kept expanding throughout mid- session, and by 2:00 p.m., the NASDAQ Index was sporting a 120 point gain. The divergence between what`s hot and what`s not widened for the rest of the day, although the Dow Jones Industrial Average did manage to trim its closing loss to 79.11 points putting it at 10225.73. But the NASDAQ Index soared to its biggest one-day point ever, up 168.21 points, or 3.8 percent at a new record at 4550.33. Big board volume perked up about 4 million shares over yesterday. Down volume exceeded up volume by about a 5 to 3 margin. 

 The Dow Transports Index down nearly 39 points. Oil futures rose again. 

 Utilities down 2.38. 

 The Closing Tick still bearish at -331. 

 Standard & Poor`s 500 up just over 8 1/2 points. 

 Nearly a 4 3/4 point rise in the S&P 100. 

 MidCap 400 up nearly 8 1/4 points. 

 The CRB Bridge Futures Price Index fell 1.81. 

 New York Stock Exchange Composite Index off nearly a 1 1/2. 

 And a 1/2 point drop in the Value Line. 

 Russell2000 Small Cap Index rose almost 9 points. 

 And the broadly based Wilshire 5000 gaining 271.88. 

 As I mentioned earlier, bonds were undermined by the second were undermined by the second Greenspan warning in as many weeks about higher interest rates, and the soaring NASDAQ stock market detoured funds away from the perceived safe haven of the debt market. After decent gains over the previous two sessions, profit taking was also a factor, which sent tax free and corporates down an 1/8 to 3/8 of a point on average, while the Treasury market lost a bit more ground than that. 

 The 5-year notes down 8/32. 

 A 14/32 drop in the 10-year notes. 

 The Bellwether 30-year bond down 20/32, bringing the yield back up to 6.13 percent. 

 And the Lehman Brothers Long-Term Treasury Bond Index down 12 1/3 points. 

 I`ll be back shortly to show you where the action was on Wall Street today. Susie. 

 GHARIB: Paul, billionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian`s MGM Grand (MGG) is gambling on a deal to create a Las Vegas powerhouse. MGM offered today to buy Mirage Resorts (MIR) for $5.5 billion in cash, stock and debt. Mirage says its board of directors will consider the unsolicited offer at a meeting in the near future. MGM`s bid expires on March 8th. At stake, Mirage`s flagship Las Vegas Hotel and Casino, its Bellagio Resort , the Treasure Island theme park and hotel, and the Golden Nugget Hotel. 

 KANGAS: The Kellogg Company (K) is reaching beyond the breakfast table to put some snap, crackle, and pop back into its stock price. Diane Eastabrook talked with Kellogg`s Chief Executive Officer Carlos Gutierrez about his strategy for the cereal maker. 

 DIANE EASTABROOK, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: These are troubling times for Tony the Tiger and Toucan Sam. Cereal sales industry wide have been soggy. But at Kellogg`s, a series of breakfast food bombs and tougher competition from other cereal makers have the company struggling to stay on top in America`s kitchens. As a result Kellogg`s stock price is now nearly half of what it was last fall. But Kellogg is trying to boost profits by branching out beyond breakfast. It recently acquired a line of functional foods and is developing more snacks, like nutri-grain twists. Recently I sat down with CEO Carlos Gutierrez at Kellogg`s Battle Creek Michigan headquarters to talk about the potential of both businesses. 

 CARLOS GUTIERREZ, PRESIDENT AND CEO, KELLOGG COMPANY: We`re leveraging our assets to grow our company, and we have great assets in our brands. We have great assets in our ability to make great tasting, healthy food. And to that extent, we see a great future beyond cereal. But cereal is a very important part of our company and we will always with b the leader in cereal and it will always be very significant to us. But we can take everything we`ve achieved in cereal and the assets we`ve gained in cereal and the imagery and the reputation we have with consumers to go well beyond cereal. 

 EASTABROOK: By building up the snack line do you risk cannibalizing the cereal segment? 

 GUTIERREZ: To the extent that if consumers are going to move from cereal to something else we`d rather be that product to which they move. However, we are, we`re launching products in different day parts. Snack Ums and Rice Krispies Treats are consumed at times other than breakfasts. We just bought Worthington Foods which also takes us beyond breakfast. So we`re actually taking the Kellogg`s brand and other brands to other day parts. 

 EASTABROOK: What is your strategy in the functional foods area? 

 GUTIERREZ: If I could just mention Worthington, the reason we like Worthington is because we know that we can take our innovation capabilities and improve those products. We see a great trend towards vegetarianism. We see a lot of consumers moving away from meats. So we like the business. We believe that we can improve the products, we can improve the marketing, we can improve the distribution, we can do it at lower costs and that`s a great example of how our acquisition strategy plays to our strengths. 

 EASTABROOK: Your stock has taken a real beating since about October. When might investors expect to see improvement in your stock? 

 GUTIERREZ: I`m asking myself that question all the time. A couple of things. The food industry has taken quite a beating over the past couple of months and we know that this is an industry, an industry phenomenon that`s going on as a lot of money or more money is moving into the technology sector. We don`t believe it is a permanent state and there will be companies who can excel within the food industries, companies who have innovation capability, companies who have brands, very strong brands, companies who have global presence to be able to take advantage of emerging markets, companies who are able to build relationships with large customers because they have the brands and because they have the presence, companies who have a low cost production capability, as well. So we believe we are poised to break away from whatever it is that`s happening to the food industry and we`re trying to do its quickly as possible. 

 EASTABROOK: Mr. Gutierrez, thanks so much for joining us. 

 GUTIERREZ: Thank you. 

 GHARIB: With the Internet commerce boom, it`s no surprise that venture capitalists poured $48 billion into new businesses last year, more than the three previous years combined. But it might surprise you that American venture capital is ramping up in Europe. Paul Miller reports. 

 PAUL MILLER, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: The village of Goering , where Roman roads met at a crossing of the river Thames is now the home of a bridge to the Internet. Sprinkled through the village are the offices of Intranet (INRS), a three year old company specializing in creating Internet commerce web sites and e-businesses for the financial services industry. Founder and CEO Nick Spooner says his company has succeeded by moving more quickly than the competition. 

 NICK SPOONER, FOUNDER & CEO, ENTRANET: Customers want to Mobilize and put these things out, these online commerce platforms, in a matter of weeks. 

 MILLER: They also want the marketing and other expertise that Intranet offers to create successful online businesses. Expanding rapidly, the company got $25 million dollars from General Atlantic Partners, the American venture capital firm. Nick Spooner says English sources of capital take too long to identify investments. 

 SPOONER: What we didn`t want to do as a company, because our business is all about speed, is spend too much time inside the investment process. And I was blown away by the speed at which the GAP were able to make a decision about Intranet. They had terms on the table in a couple of days. 

 MILLER: American venture capital companies are moving quickly to take advantage of the expected explosion in online commerce here. By one estimate, Internet commerce will grow from $15 billion dollars last year to almost $180 billion dollars in two years time. Several major American venture capital companies now have offices in London, including Carlisle Group and Internet Capital Partners. They have a estimated $10 billion to invest in Internet and high tech start-ups. General Atlantic Partners, which has been in Europe for 10 years, is the leader in Internet investment. It says more money will be on the way. 

 RENE KERN, PARTNER, GENERAL ATLANTIC PARTNERS: I think there are a lot of U.S. venture firms which look at Europe as the next big area. There are fundamental macroeconomic changes taking place in Europe and my belief is that Europe is going to see significant growth over the next few years and you`re going to see a lot more U.S. venture capital money flowing into these markets. MILLER: General Atlantic says Europe`s edge in mobile phone technology, common standards and high percentages of people who own mobile phones means the wireless Internet will take off faster here than in America, still another reason why more European entrepreneurs may be using American venture capital. Paul Miller for NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, London. 

 KANGAS: Today another truly exaggerated divergence between the blue chips and the high tech stocks, the Dow losing 79.11. the broader market lower. For every 12 stocks up 17 lower. Only 63 new highs for the year, 202 new lows. 

 America Online (AOL) topped the active list on nearly 28 million shares, up a strong 7 1/8 after Merrill Lynch issued a positive report about its forthcoming merger with Time Warner and repeated a "buy" on AOL. 

 Newbridge Net (NN) down 2 3/16, although ALCATEL (ALA) will acquire the company for about 8/10 of a share of its stock. That works out to about a $35.50 value for Newbridge. 

 Compaq Computer (CPQ) was up 7/16. 

 Philip Morris (MO) dropped 9/16. Fifth in volume was Lucent Technologies (LU), down 11/16. 

 Then Wal-Mart (WMT) up, or down 1 1/16 even though there was a little increase in earnings estimates by Merrill Lynch, a penny for 19 -- or I should say 2000, up to $1.46, just a penny increase. Maybe that was a little disappointing. 

 SBC Communications (SBC), which, of course, is acquiring Sterling Commerce, down a point. 

 And Citigroup lost 9/16. 

 ALCATEL (ALA) itself down 4 1/4. Perhaps there`ll be a little dilution of earnings with that Newbridge Net (NN) purchase. 

 Mirage Resorts (MIR), as you heard earlier, is going to be taken over by MGM (MGG) for $17 a share. 

 AMR (AMR), weak airline group, down 2 3/4 there. The April contract in New York oil futures up $0.47 to $29.39 a barrel. 

 Gateway (GTW) up 10 7/16. First of all, First Boston repeated a "buy." 

 And Officemax (OMX) moved up a point on news that Gateway (GTW) and Officemax will operate exclusive store within a store computer departments and Gateway`s going to invest $50 million in Officemax and also its little dot.com subsidiary. 

 LSI Logic (LSI) up almost 5 points after the Warburg Dillon Reed Brokerage upgraded it from "buy" to a "strong buy." 

 Tiffany (TIF) rising 2 3/16 after Goldman Sachs added the stock to its "recommended" list. 

 And Time Warner (TWX) itself up 7 1/4 on that positive report from Merrill Lynch. 

 National Discount Brokers Group (NDB) the big percentage gainer of the day, up 6 5/16. First Boston 

 Brokerage increased earnings estimates for the fourth quarter from $0.12 to $0.16 a share, repeated a strong "buy" and has an $85 a share target for that stock. 

 Sothebys Holdings (BID) up 3 1/4, regaining more than it lost 2 1/8 yesterday on the resignation of its two top executives amid a Department of Justice probe of price fixing. 

 Smith and Nephew (SNN), this is a British medical devices company and it received FDA approval on a pre-market basis for its Estrogen 2000 product to treat bone fractures. 

 Fluor Corporation (FLR) the big loser of the day, down well over 7. After the close yesterday, first quarter earnings $0.69, just barely up from the previous year`s $0.68, in line with estimates, but the company`s warning second quarter earnings will be weak. 

 Ucar International (UCR) down 3 3/16. Fourth quarter earnings $0.30, up from $0.22. But that was still $0.10 below the Street estimate. 

 And then Ionics (ION) dropping 3 3/4, lower earnings there for the fourth quarter, 26, down from 34 last year. Revenues actually fell by 3.6 percent. 

 There we see an easy new high in the index on NASDAQ, up 168 points. Trading volume was up 120 million shares of yesterday`s pace, 21 stocks higher for every 19 lower. 

 Cisco Systems (CSCO) topped the active list as the high tech titans just took over. 

 QUALCOMM (QCOM) up over 16. 

 Microsoft (MSFT) edged up 7/16 despite its problems. 

 JDS Uniphase (JDSU) a 20 3/4 point gain. 

 Intel (INTC) up 2 5/16, fifth in volume. 

 Oracle (ORCL) rose 3 3/4. 

 Yahoo! (YHOO) up well over 12 points. 

 Sun Microsystems (SUNW) gained 6 5/8. 

 And then Dell Computer (DELL) rising 1 9/16. 

 Followed by Applied Materials (AMAT), up 2 13/64. 

 Zmax Corporation (ZMAX) had a good day, rising 5 points. Today it became a systems integrator for BEA Systems Corporation (BEAS), a big job. 

 Conductus (CDTS) up 23 11/16. The company says its first field trial of its clear site system showed dramatic improvement in base station performance. 

 And Summit Technology (BEAM) losing 4 1/4. Lehman Brothers cut the stock price target from $25 down to $18 after rival Visix Corporation reduced its fee for eyesight correction by laser. 

 The American Exchange Index up .53. 

 Team Incorporated (TMI) the best percentage gain, up well over a point. The third quarter ends next week and the company`s hinting that its business is recovering nicely. 

 And Maxim Pharmaceuticals (MMP) up 15. The company offered 3.2 million shares at 55 and it will use the proceeds for clinical trials of its Maximine leukemia drug. It had no problem in selling those shares today. 

 And finally, among the Index Shares only the diamonds lost ground, mirroring the weakness in the Dow stocks. 

 But the Qs were standouts. 

 And the Depositary Receipts rose modestly. 

 KANGAS: There has been pandemonium in the palladium market over the past few weeks as supplies of the precious metal have dwindled. But demand has risen. Joining us now to discuss the situation is BridgeNews senior metals reporter Melanie Lovatt. And welcome, Melanie. 

 MELANIE LOVATT, SENIOR METALS REPORTER, BRIDGENEWS: Hello. 

 KANGAS: Give us a little background on why the demand is so strong for palladium and the supply is so restricted. 

 LOVATT: Well, Russia supplies about 70 percent of the world`s palladium and they haven`t supplied much at all this year. We`re waiting for some export quotas to be signed. 

 KANGAS: How much is missing that should be delivered? Do you have a rough idea? 

 LOVATT: People aren`t really sure, but they haven`t really delivered much at all this year. 

 KANGAS: And the major demand for it is coming from the automotive industry for catalytic converters? 

 LOVATT: That`s right. Demand has been very strong, yet supply hasn`t been forthcoming, so we`ve had a big increase in price. 

 KANGAS: What is the peak price so far? 

 LOVATT: We hit a price of $835 per ounce on MYMEX yesterday, which is the highest price it`s seen ever and also it`s double what it was at the beginning of January this year. 

 KANGAS: I understand that it was down rather sharply today. What went on today? 

 LOVATT: Yeah, it slipped back a little bit on profit taking. 

 KANGAS: How much? 

 LOVATT: It slipped about $90 at the close. 

 KANGAS: And just profit taking, no basic news to account for that? 

 LOVATT: A little bit of news out of telecom. The loans have to give material to the shorts. 

 KANGAS: Now, I understand, Melanie, last week you wrote an exclusive article about General Motors trying to find a substitute for palladium for catalytic converters. How far is that going to go? 

 LOVATT: well, they`re trying to engineer palladium out as much as they can of the next model year. How successful they are remains to be seen. 

 KANGAS: But no progress report on that as yet? 

 LOVATT: Not yet. We`ll keep posted. 

 KANGAS: All right. And we`ll depend on you to keep us abreast of what`s going on. Thanks very much, Melanie. 

 LOVATT: Thank you. 

 KANGAS: BridgeNews senior metals reporter, Melanie Lovatt. 

 GHARIB: Tomorrow, helping people live healthier lives. We`ll tell you why Gazeundhite.com is nothing to sneeze at. 

 GHARIB: Boeing and its striking engineers are heading back to the bargaining table tomorrow morning. The engineers walked off the job 15 days ago in a dispute over pay raises and bonuses. A federal mediator is handling the case and is hopeful a solution can be reached quickly. The union says 19,000 employees are on strike, but Boeing says it`s more like 17,000. Boeing shares fell 1 5/8 today to 37 1/4. 

 KANGAS: The Securities and Exchange Commission is considering whether brokers and stock exchanges should have to give investors more information about how well trades are executed. Information that might be disclosed includes how fast the broker or stock market displays limit orders, how many limit orders are filled and how frequently a broker or market improves prices for investors. 

 GHARIB: In the money file tonight, the relationship between the Federal Reserve and the stock markets. Here`s Eric Schurenberg, assistant managing editor of "Fortune" magazine. 

 ERIC SCHURENBERG, ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR, FORTUNE MAGAZINE: Until last week, it looked like NASDAQ had defied yet another economic law, that rising interest rates are bad for stocks. Now it`s not so clear what to believe about interest rates, but you do need to make up your mind since Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan has declared his intention to raise rates until it hurts. The supposed link between are interest rates and stokes is pretty logical. As rates go up, rising interest costs cut into earnings, price/earnings ratios adjust down and the combination cuts the market off at the knees, or at least it should. In the magic market for tech stocks, prices rose 160 percent in the past 15 months, even as bond yields went from 4 1/2 percent to 6.7 percent. Now mainly that was because nobody pays attention to the traditional ways of valuing stocks. Those old yardsticks like the discounted cash flow model were very sensitive to interest rates. The new metrics, see, people don`t even say yardsticks anymore, are much simpler-all that matters is growth. Who cares what the future cash flow of, say, JDS Uniphase will be? You buy the stock because it`s growing so rapidly it could be next big thing, or at least because enough people might continue to think it`s the next big thing after you`ve stopped thinking it for you to sell them the stock for a big fat profit. Maybe the discounted cash flow model was simpler after all. In any event, after Greenspan spoke last week, NASDAQ seemed to get the old time religion on rates. It`s too soon to tell whether it will resume laughing in the face of higher rates, but one day I`m convinced higher rates will have to bite. After all, Greenspan is raising rates to slow the economy. If the economy slows, even JDS Uniphase can`t grow as fast as it has and that really will cut the market off at the knees. I`m Eric Schurenberg. 

 KANGAS: Recapping today`s market action, an up and down kind of day. The Dow closed down 79 points, but the NASDAQ Index closed up 168 at another record high. And please join us at our World Wide Web site, NBR.com, or on America Online, keyword: NBR. 

 GHARIB: And finally tonight, he`s been a war hero, a U.S. president and the king of Camelot. Now John F. Kennedy is about to be immortalized as a G.I. Joe doll. Hasbro says the JFK action figure is based on Kennedys` role in World War II. He was a navy lieutenant on P.T. 109. And the doll will sell for about $30. It`s expected to hit the stores this fall and Paul, I bet you don`t know, this but the Kennedy doll joins other famous G.I. Joes including Colin Powell, Buzz Aldrin, General George Patton and President Dwight D. Eisenhower. 

 KANGAS: But, Susie, don`t you think to better reflect the makeup of the current military a G.I. Jane should be added to the collection? 

 GHARIB: Absolutely. 

 KANGAS: I`d knew you`d agree with that. 

 GHARIB: We`d just have to come up with who the G.I. Janes will be. You know, maybe suggestions should be mailed to you, Paul, huh? 

 KANGAS: I`ll take them. 

 GHARIB: That`s NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT for Wednesday, February 23rd. I`m Susie Gharib. Have a good evening, everyone. Good night to you, Paul. 

 KANGAS: Good night, Susie. I`m Paul Kangas, wishing all of you the best of good buys. 

 Nightly Business Report transcripts are available on-line post-broadcast. The program is transcribed by FDCH. Updates may be posted at a later date. 

 The views of our guests and commentators are their own and do not necessarily represent the views of Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. Nightly Business Report, or WPBT. 

 Information presented on Nightly Business Report is not and should not be considered as investment advice. 

 c2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. 

 END 

 TO PURCHASE A VIDEOTAPE OF THIS PIECE, PLEASE CALL  888-266-3601 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT.  THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc.   Formatting and transcription copyright 2000 eMediaMillWorks, Inc.   (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No quotes from the materials contained herein may be used in any media without attribution to Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc.  This transcript may not be copied or resold in any media. 

Document nbr0000020010808dw2n00012


 Business 
 Angry home fuel customers threaten N.H. dealer who promised cut rates 

 The Associated Press 
728 words
19 February 2000
Bangor Daily News Bangor, ME
BNGR
ALL
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 BERLIN, N.H. -- Mounting anger at a young entrepreneur who reneged on promises to deliver cut-rate heating oil to customers in New Hampshire and Maine has fueled threats of violence, his landlord says. 

 One person phoned in a bomb threat to the building that housed J.L. Oliver Enterprises and some customers threatened the company's employees, said Ron Goyette, who owns the building. Somebody kicked in the office door. 

 Goyette, who hired a security guard to stop people from entering the building, said 50 to 60 cars drove up to the offices in search of Jonathan Oliver the last two days he was in business. 

 Goyette also began eviction proceedings because he feared that either he or the other office tenant in the building might get hurt. But Oliver shut down his business and moved out before he was evicted. 

 "We were contemplating shutting the whole building down," Goyette said. "He was bringing danger into the facility and it affected everyone in the building." 

 Oliver, 27, started his oil business five years ago with a single delivery truck. He moved his Oliver Enterprises to Berlin, a remote mill town, last summer and lured thousands of prepaid customers in Maine and New Hampshire with ads offering prices that undercut competitors by 25 cents a gallon and more. 

 Oliver has touched off a wave of anger across two states, where more than 1,600 of his customers say he owes them money. The number gets higher every day. 

 In Berlin, Oliver is not a popular man. 

 Somebody is distributing fliers around town that mock Oliver's company. "J.L. Larceny Enterprises," the flier reads. "Large Enough to Shaft -- Small Enough to Hide." 

 After Oliver appeared on a local radio talk show on WMOU-AM two weeks ago, he was confronted by several people in the parking lot as he left the station. There was no violence, possibly because a police officer was there at the station's request. 

 Dolly Fortier, owner of Dolly's in downtown Berlin, said she paid for 1,000 gallons for her restaurant and home. He delivered fewer than 400. 

 "He took our money two weeks before he went down, so he had a clue of what was going on," she said. "But he still took our money. We just took his word for everything." 

 Mary Castelli, a senior assistant attorney general with the New Hampshire Attorney General's Office, can't recall an instance where so many consumers have filed complaints against a company. Oliver is to appear in court in April to answer to the state's charges of unfair and deceptive business practices and false advertising. 

 When contacted at his apartment in Berlin, Oliver declined to comment. But in court last month, he blamed his problems on his business growing too rapidly and the price of oil going up unexpectedly. His former attorney said Oliver certainly didn't intend to hurt people. 

 "He feels terrible about the whole thing," said Bob Bradfield, a lawyer in Laconia. "He keeps hoping there's something he can do to get money back in the pockets of his customers." 

 Competing dealers questioned how Oliver could sell at his advertised price and still make a profit. Their warning that he might have trouble arranging deliveries during a winter cold snap came true in December, when scores of customers began reporting they could not get their oil delivered. In late January, the deliveries stopped. 

 What has rankled so many customers is the way Oliver handled the situation. 

 Customers often could not get through to the company by telephone, or if they did, someone would hang up at the other end. Many were told the oil would be delivered, but it never came. Some people ran out of oil during the late December cold snap, and had to buy from other dealers at much higher prices. 

 All the while, Oliver continued advertising in papers for new business, even though it was clear he was having difficulty servicing existing customers. He pulled the ads only when a judge ordered him to. 

 Oliver angered people even more when he testified in court that he recently had made the last payments on a $16,000 boat and had bought a $4,000 all-terrain vehicle. 

Document bngr000020010803dw2j0039k




 Customers who paid for cut-rate heating oil feel betrayed 

724 words
18 February 2000
16:33
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 BERLIN, N.H. (AP) - Mounting anger at a young entrepreneur who reneged on promises to deliver cut-rate heating oil to customers in New Hampshire and Maine has fueled threats of violence, his landlord says. 

 One person phoned in a bomb threat to the building that housed J.L. Oliver Enterprises and some customers threatened the company's employees, said Ron Goyette, who owns the building. Somebody kicked in the office door. 

 Goyette, who hired a security guard to stop people from entering the building, said 50 to 60 cars drove up to the offices in search of Jonathan Oliver the last two days he was in business. 

 Goyette also began eviction proceedings because he feared that either he or the other office tenant in the building might get hurt. But Oliver shut down his business and moved out before he was evicted. 

 "We were contemplating shutting the whole building down," Goyette said. "He was bringing danger into the facility and it affected everyone in the building." 

 Oliver, 27, started his oil business five years ago with a single delivery truck. He moved his Oliver Enterprises to Berlin, a remote mill town, last summer and lured thousands of prepaid customers in Maine and New Hampshire with ads offering prices that undercut competitors by 25 cents a gallon and more. 

 Oliver has touched off a wave of anger across two states, where more than 1,600 of his customers say he owes them money. The number gets higher every day. 

 In Berlin, Oliver is not a popular man. 

 Somebody is distributing fliers around town that mock Oliver's company. "J.L. Larceny Enterprises," the flier reads. "Large Enough to Shaft - Small Enough to Hide." 

 After Oliver appeared on a local radio talk show on WMOU-AM two weeks ago, he was confronted by several people in the parking lot as he left the station. There was no violence, possibly because a police officer was there at the station's request. 

 Dolly Fortier, owner of Dolly's in downtown Berlin, said she paid for 1,000 gallons for her restaurant and home. He delivered fewer than 400. 

 "He took our money two weeks before he went down, so he had a clue of what was going on," she said. "But he still took our money. We just took his word for everything." 

 Mary Castelli, a senior assistant attorney general with the New Hampshire attorney general's office, can't recall an instance where so many consumers have filed complaints against a company. Oliver is to appear in court in April to answer to the state's charges of unfair and deceptive business practices and false advertising. 

 When contacted at his apartment in Berlin, Oliver declined to comment. But in court last month, he blamed his problems on his business growing too rapidly and the price of oil going up unexpectedly. His former lawyer said Oliver certainly didn't intend to hurt people. 

 "He feels terrible about the whole thing," said Bob Bradfield, a lawyer in Laconia. "He keeps hoping there's something he can do to get money back in the pockets of his customers." 

 Competing dealers questioned how Oliver could sell at his advertised price and still make a profit. Their warning that he might have trouble arranging deliveries during a winter cold snap came true in December, when scores of customers began reporting they could not get their oil delivered. In late January, the deliveries stopped. 

 What has rankled so many customers is the way Oliver handled the situation. 

 Customers often could not get through to the company by telephone, or if they did, someone would hang up at the other end. Many were told the oil would be delivered, but it never came. Some people ran out of oil during the late December cold snap, and had to buy from other dealers at much higher prices. 

 All the while, Oliver continued advertising in papers for new business, even though it was clear he was having difficulty servicing existing customers. He pulled the ads only when a judge ordered him to. 

 Oliver angered people even more when he testified in court that he recently had made the last payments on a $16,000 boat and had bought a $4,000 all-terrain vehicle. 

Rush

Document aprs000020010803dw2i03qs7




 Customers who paid for cut-rate heating oil feel betrayed 

728 words
18 February 2000
07:17
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 BERLIN, N.H. (AP) - Mounting anger at a young entrepreneur who reneged on promises to deliver cut-rate heating oil to customers in Maine and New Hampshire who paid in advance has fueled threats of violence, his landlord says. 

 One person phoned in a bomb threat to the building that housed J.L. Oliver Enterprises and some customers threatened the company's employees, said Ron Goyette, who owns the building. Somebody kicked in the office door. 

 Goyette, who hired a security guard to stop people from entering the building, said 50 to 60 cars drove up to the offices in search of Jonathan Oliver the last two days he was in business. 

 Goyette also began eviction proceedings because he feared that either he or the other office tenant in the building might get hurt. But Oliver shut down his business and moved out before he was evicted. 

 "We were contemplating shutting the whole building down," Goyette said. "He was bringing danger into the facility and it affected everyone in the building." 

 Oliver, 27, started his oil business five years ago with a single delivery truck. He moved his Oliver Enterprises to Berlin, a remote mill town, last summer and lured thousands of prepaid customers in Maine and New Hampshire with ads offering prices that undercut competitors by 25 cents a gallon and more. 

 Oliver has touched off a wave of anger across two states, where more than 1,600 of his customers say he owes them money. The number gets higher every day. 

 In Berlin, Oliver is not a popular man. 

 Somebody is distributing fliers around town that mock Oliver's company. "J.L. Larceny Enterprises," the flier reads. "Large Enough to Shaft - Small Enough to Hide." 

 After Oliver appeared on a local radio talk show on WMOU-AM two weeks ago, he was confronted by several people in the parking lot as he left the station. There was no violence, possibly because a police officer was there at the station's request. 

 Dolly Fortier, owner of Dolly's in downtown Berlin, said she paid for 1,000 gallons for her restaurant and home. He delivered fewer than 400. 

 "He took our money two weeks before he went down, so he had a clue of what was going on," she said. "But he still took our money. We just took his word for everything." 

 Mary Castelli, a senior assistant attorney general with the New Hampshire attorney general's office, can't recall an instance where so many consumers have filed complaints against a company. Oliver is to appear in court in April to answer to the state's charges of unfair and deceptive business practices and false advertising. 

 When contacted at his apartment in Berlin, Oliver declined to comment. But in court last month, he blamed his problems on his business growing too rapidly and the price of oil going up unexpectedly. His former lawyer said Oliver certainly didn't intend to hurt people. 

 "He feels terrible about the whole thing," said Bob Bradfield, a lawyer in Laconia. "He keeps hoping there's something he can do to get money back in the pockets of his customers." 

 Competing dealers questioned how Oliver could sell at his advertised price and still make a profit. Their warning that he might have trouble arranging deliveries during a winter cold snap came true in December, when scores of customers began reporting they could not get their oil delivered. In late January, the deliveries stopped. 

 What has rankled so many customers is the way Oliver handled the situation. 

 Customers often could not get through to the company by telephone, or if they did, someone would hang up at the other end. Many were told the oil would be delivered, but it never came. Some people ran out of oil during the late December cold snap, and had to buy from other dealers at much higher prices. 

 All the while, Oliver continued advertising in papers for new business, even though it was clear he was having difficulty servicing existing customers. He pulled the ads only when a judge ordered him to. 

 Oliver angered people even more when he testified in court that he recently had made the last payments on a $16,000 boat and had bought a $4,000 all-terrain vehicle. 

Rush

Document aprs000020010803dw2i03owm




 Customers who paid for cut-rate heating oil feel betrayed 

728 words
18 February 2000
07:16
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 BERLIN, N.H. (AP) - Mounting anger at a young entrepreneur who reneged on promises to deliver cut-rate heating oil to customers in New Hampshire and Maine who paid in advance has fueled threats of violence, his landlord says. 

 One person phoned in a bomb threat to the building that housed J.L. Oliver Enterprises and some customers threatened the company's employees, said Ron Goyette, who owns the building. Somebody kicked in the office door. 

 Goyette, who hired a security guard to stop people from entering the building, said 50 to 60 cars drove up to the offices in search of Jonathan Oliver the last two days he was in business. 

 Goyette also began eviction proceedings because he feared that either he or the other office tenant in the building might get hurt. But Oliver shut down his business and moved out before he was evicted. 

 "We were contemplating shutting the whole building down," Goyette said. "He was bringing danger into the facility and it affected everyone in the building." 

 Oliver, 27, started his oil business five years ago with a single delivery truck. He moved his Oliver Enterprises to Berlin, a remote mill town, last summer and lured thousands of prepaid customers in Maine and New Hampshire with ads offering prices that undercut competitors by 25 cents a gallon and more. 

 Oliver has touched off a wave of anger across two states, where more than 1,600 of his customers say he owes them money. The number gets higher every day. 

 In Berlin, Oliver is not a popular man. 

 Somebody is distributing fliers around town that mock Oliver's company. "J.L. Larceny Enterprises," the flier reads. "Large Enough to Shaft - Small Enough to Hide." 

 After Oliver appeared on a local radio talk show on WMOU-AM two weeks ago, he was confronted by several people in the parking lot as he left the station. There was no violence, possibly because a police officer was there at the station's request. 

 Dolly Fortier, owner of Dolly's in downtown Berlin, said she paid for 1,000 gallons for her restaurant and home. He delivered fewer than 400. 

 "He took our money two weeks before he went down, so he had a clue of what was going on," she said. "But he still took our money. We just took his word for everything." 

 Mary Castelli, a senior assistant attorney general with the New Hampshire attorney general's office, can't recall an instance where so many consumers have filed complaints against a company. Oliver is to appear in court in April to answer to the state's charges of unfair and deceptive business practices and false advertising. 

 When contacted at his apartment in Berlin, Oliver declined to comment. But in court last month, he blamed his problems on his business growing too rapidly and the price of oil going up unexpectedly. His former lawyer said Oliver certainly didn't intend to hurt people. 

 "He feels terrible about the whole thing," said Bob Bradfield, a lawyer in Laconia. "He keeps hoping there's something he can do to get money back in the pockets of his customers." 

 Competing dealers questioned how Oliver could sell at his advertised price and still make a profit. Their warning that he might have trouble arranging deliveries during a winter cold snap came true in December, when scores of customers began reporting they could not get their oil delivered. In late January, the deliveries stopped. 

 What has rankled so many customers is the way Oliver handled the situation. 

 Customers often could not get through to the company by telephone, or if they did, someone would hang up at the other end. Many were told the oil would be delivered, but it never came. Some people ran out of oil during the late December cold snap, and had to buy from other dealers at much higher prices. 

 All the while, Oliver continued advertising in papers for new business, even though it was clear he was having difficulty servicing existing customers. He pulled the ads only when a judge ordered him to. 

 Oliver angered people even more when he testified in court that he recently had made the last payments on a $16,000 boat and had bought a $4,000 all-terrain vehicle. 

Rush

Document aprs000020010803dw2i03ovs




News and Features
Ready for another stab at the brakes?

Neil Shoebridge, editor   
675 words
11 February 2000
BRW
BRW
Late
12
English
Copyright 2000. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.   

From Shoebridge

The message from this week's Cover Story is clear: interest rates will continue to rise. Last week's increases by the United States Federal Reserve Board and the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) are just the beginning.

Philip Rennie's report, which begins on page 44, explains why rates will rise and, more importantly, the likely effect on the US and Australian stockmarkets and the Australian dollar. Predicting rate changes is risky, but Philip found a clear consensus among economists.

Westpac economist Bill Evans, who correctly tipped the size of the recent increases, believes the RBA will lift rates by another 100 basis points by June - not 75 as most people expect - with the US Federal Reserve increasing rates by 50 points by May. Evans says Australia's economic growth needs to be moderated, and a 75-point increase will not be enough to do it.

No one is predicting a repeat of the sky-high rates of the 1970s and 1980s. Philip reports that rates could plateau mid-year, and might fall in the second half of 2001. Evans says the fall could come earlier, if global growth slows and the recent rate increases spark a bear market on Wall Street.

telstra's troubles

Telstra shareholders are not happy. Since late November, they have watched the value of their shares fall by more than 15%. The holders of the Telstra 2 instalment receipts - some of whom borrowed money to buy stock - are just as sad. When BRW went to press, the receipts were $4.40, compared with their cost of $4.50.

The unhappiness could deepen. On page 26, Adele Ferguson reports that many analysts are warning clients that Telstra's share price could fall to $7, or $4.10 for the instalment receipts. What is going on? Telstra operates in an industry that is growing 12% a year, and it is expected to report a healthy - albeit lower-than-expected - profit for the first half of 1999-2000.

Telstra's share price is being whacked by several factors, including intense competition in the local telephone-call market, the likely failure of its takeover bid for the Internet service provider OzEmail, and a failure to cut costs. Prime Minister John Howard's recent pork-barrelling - he said the Federal Government's 51% stake in Telstra will be sold to, in part, fund projects in regional Australia - is further depressing the share price, and Telstra shareholders.

AD agencies go bold

Optimism is not a common trait among the people who run the Australian advertising industry. During the 1990s, most ad agency executives entered each new year predicting that growth in ad expenditure would be sluggish. At the start of 1999, they tipped a 4-5% increase. They were wrong. Expenditure rose 3.3% last year.

Despite last year's lower-than-expected growth, ad agency bosses are upbeat about 2000, with some predicting expenditure growth of more than 9%. As Simon Lloyd reports on page 58, their out-of-character optimism is being fuelled by strong economic conditions, low inflation and a conviction that the goods and services tax will not affect ad expenditure. Another factor, the Sydney Olympics, is expected to generate additional ad expenditure of $150-200 million by Olympic sponsors and their rivals.

The second part of Simon's report examines the revenue and profit performance of some of Australia's biggest ad agencies (see page 60). Unlike other ad industry surveys, BRW's report is based on accounts lodged with the Australian Securities and Investments Commission; many of the figures are more than a year old, but they are more reliable than mere claims. Page 62 features the most popular part of BRW's annual survey: a list of the highest salaries at the biggest agencies.

MALCOLM McIntosh

BRW lost a valued colleague this week, with the death of CSIRO chief executive Dr Malcolm McIntosh. Malcolm's final Left Field column is on page 40.

Document BRW0000020111227dw2b001lc




 Business; Financial Desk 
 MARKET SAVVY Treasuries Hit by Weak Bids; Blue Chips Lag, Nasdaq Soars 

From Times Staff and Wire Reports
589 words
11 February 2000
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-4
English
 Copyright 2000 / The Times Mirror Company 

 Treasury securities got pummeled Thursday after the $10-billion auction of new 30-year debt received the weakest bids in at least 17 years. On Wall Street, Nasdaq hit another record, but stocks overall were mixed. 

 Bond dealers demanded higher yields after three weeks of turbulent trading. The market's volatility the last 10 days has been the greatest since October 1998, when giant hedge fund Long-Term Capital Management neared collapse. 

 Although a week ago traders were talking about a shortage of long-term T-bonds, on Thursday the bond's yield soared to 6.43% from 6.30% amid a lack of bids at the auction. 

 Because of the sudden price swings, "people don't want to get involved," Michael Cheah of SunAmerica Asset Management said. 

 With confusion in the bond market, and more signs that gold mining firms will stop price-hedging practices, gold futures jumped $10.10 to $316.20 in New York. 

 Not that any of that mattered on the Nasdaq Stock Market: The composite index soared 122.39 points, or 2.8%, to close at 4,485.63, its fourth new high in five sessions. 

 But other barometers were a grab bag, with the Dow Jones industrials falling 55.53 points, or 0.5%, to 10,643.63. The Standard & Poor's 500 rose 0.4% while the Russell 2,000 index of smaller stocks gained 1.2% to a record. 

 Among the day's highlights: 

 * Nasdaq leaders included many of the usual suspects: Juniper Networks surged $22.56 to $208.50, Sun Microsystems jumped $3.06 to $94.63 and Cisco Systems shot up $7.13 to $135.94. Cisco's move made it the second-most valuable U.S. company, with a market capitalization of $465 billion, displacing General Electric, at $444 billion. 

 * Many chip-related stocks showed strength, with Applied Materials surging $11 to $174.75 and Vitesse Semiconductor vaulting $15.94 to $71.75. 

 * Many Internet stocks were lower a day after hackers disrupted several popular Web sites. Amazon.com fell $4.06 to $76.19 and EBay eased $1.63 to $162.38. 

 * Several tech firms surged in their debuts, including Internet consultant Organic (ticker symbol: OGNC), up $19.94 to $39.94; Net software maker Xcare.net (XCAR), up $13.25 to $31.25; and multimedia software maker Witness Systems, up $20.06 to $40.06. 

 * Among blue chips, 3M fell $1.63 to $86, DuPont dropped $2.63 to $54.06 and Procter & Gamble lost $2.56 to $91.44 as investors generally shunned stocks outside the tech sector. 

 * Financial issues got clipped as bond yields rose, with J.P. Morgan off $2.56 to $114, American Express off $2.06 to $154.50 and Wells Fargo off $1.13 to $36.75. 

 * Drug stocks declined, with Merck sliding $2.38 to $69, Schering-Plough losing $2.13 to $43.38, Pfizer falling $1.13 to $35 and Warner-Lambert, which agreed to be bought by Pfizer, dropping $3.50 to $93.63. 

 * UnumProvident plunged $9.44 to $16.25 as the disability insurer said fourth-quarter earnings dropped more than expected. After issuing a profit warning, contract staffer AHL Services slumped $4.81 to $9.44. 

 In foreign trading, Asian and European stocks were mixed. Latin American indexes climbed, with Mexico's and Argentina's both gaining 3.4%. 

 * 

 Market Roundup, C6 

Document latm000020010808dw2b00aok




 Nasdaq flies to record - blue chips sag on rate fear. 

 By Eric Wahlgren 
749 words
10 February 2000
22:06
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Feb 10 (Reuters) - U.S. blue chips stumbled on Thursday as rising energy prices fuelled fears that interest rates will climb to stem inflation, but the Nasdaq market flew to another record on expectations that technology stocks are immune to higher lending rates. 

 "Techs were hot and everything else was not on confusion about the future of interest rates," said Alan Skrainka, chief market strategist, of Edward D. Jones, in St. Louis. "There is a little concern about oil prices. When the interest-rate picture is cloudy, the focus turns to earnings. And earnings in the tech sector have been good." 

 The Nasdaq composite index gained 122.39 points, or 2.81 percent, to 4,485.63, beating Tuesday's record close of 4,427.50. It was the Nasdaq's fifth-largest points gain, but the advance was not significant in percentage terms. 

 Stoking the technology rally was MCI WorldCom Inc., the long-distance telephone company that is set to buy smaller rival Sprint Corp. MCI WorldCom shares rose 1-11/16 to 49-13/16 after its fourth-quarter profits nearly tripled. 

 Wall Street continues to pile money into the tech sector on expectations that the sector will continue to perform, even if borrowing costs go up. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average, meanwhile, lost 55.53 points, or 0.52 percent, to 10,643.63, ending near a three-month low. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index edged up 5.13 points, or 0.36 percent, at 1,416.83. 

 The Dow's interest-rate-sensitive financial services components fell after bond prices swooned on news of weak demand in a 30-year U.S. Treasury bond auction. The long bond dropped 1-16/32, pushing the yield up to 6.43 percent from Wednesday's close of 6.31 percent. 

 Among the Dow components, American Express Co. slipped 1-7/8 to 154-1/2, and J.P. Morgan & Co. eased 2-9/16 to 114. The blue-chip index's only real bright spots were its technology members. 

 "Technology will continue to lead into the next year," said George Rodriguez, senior vice president, Guzman & Co., Jersey City, N.J. "As oil prices rise, there is concern it could increase inflationary pressures and the Fed will raises rates. But nothing really has changed since there is an expectation that the Fed will raise rates anyway." 

 With the blue chips out of favour, investors turned their attention to small-capitalisation stocks, driving the Russell 2000 index to a new high of 542.21. 

 On the New York Stock Exchange, decliners beat advances 17 to 12 with 1.05 billion shares changing hands. There were 76 stocks hitting new highs and 255 new lows. 

 Oil and energy stocks climbed after gasoline prices on the New York Mercantile Exchange hit a fresh nine-year high. 

 March gasoline futures ended at 81.75 cents a gallon, up 2.09 cents after soaring to 82.00 cents, the highest since the Gulf War in January 1991, when it jumped to 86.00 cents. 

 Chevron Corp. closed up 1-13/16 at 76-13/16 and Atlantic Richfield (ARCO) added 3-7/8 to 67-1/8. The Standard and Poor's international oil index climbed 1.74 percent. 

 Internet, software and aluminum stocks were also strong while air freight, automaker and insurance issues slipped. 

 Intel Corp. was the main Dow component countering the downdraft in the 30-stock index, rising 3 to 107-5/8. 

 Companies in the news included Network Solutions Inc., which jumped 36-5/16 to 292-5/16 after the Internet domain name registration company reported higher fourth-quarter profits. 

 Computer maker Dell Computer Corp., which recently issued a profit warning for the latest quarter, gained 3-15/64 to 38-51/64 ahead of its earnings report, expected after the close. 

 On the Big Board, Tricon Global Restaurants Inc., the parent of Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and KFC, fell 2-7/16 to 27-1/2, although its profits topped expectations. 

 UNUMProvident Corp., the nation's No. 1 disability insurer, was down 10-5/16 at 15-3/8 on lower-than-expected earnings. 

 On the initial public offering front, Organic Inc. jumped 19-15/16 to 39-15/16 after the Web site designer raised $110 million through its initial public offering. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw2a087f3




 Dell Computer Reports Earnings In Line With Last Month's Warning 

535 words
10 February 2000
21:21
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Dell Computer Corp., which last month warned fiscal fourth-quarter sales and profit would fall short of estimates because of year 2000 concerns and chip shortages, late Thursday announced results in line with the warning. 

 The Round Rock, Texas-based maker of personal computers reported net income for the fiscal quarter ending Jan. 28 of $436 million, or 16 cents a share, well below analysts' estimates, before the warning, of $462 million, or 21 cents a share. In the year-ago period, Dell posted net income of $425 million, or 15 cents a share. 

 Revenue came to $6.8 billion, about $700 million below expectations before the warning but up from $5.17 billion in the year-earlier quarter. 

 Since the warning, investors have been concerned that Dell's fourth-quarter profit troubles could spill over into its fiscal first period. Some analysts fear two more quarters could pass before it is clear that Dell - which has missed Wall Street's revenue projections in three of the previous five quarters - is back on track. 

 Last month, Dell warned that its sales gains would cool from the 38% rate of 1999 to a low-30% annual rate. It also suggested that its net profit margin decline slightly. Chief Executive Michael Dell blamed the fourth-quarter revenue shortfall on combination of slower business-PC sales and consumer-PC component shortages, including Intel Corp. microprocessors. 

 Dell Thursday said operating expenses were 11.6% of fourth-quarter revenue, up from 11% in the year-ago period. Sales through the company's Internet site accounted for 50% of revenue and averaged $40 million a day by the end of the quarter, compared with $14 million a day a year ago. 

 Dell said service revenue exceeded $490 million, a gain of more than 50%. The company said other "beyond-the-box" sales - including software and peripherals through its Internet service - grew by nearly 33% to $610 million. Non-computer sales accounted for 16% of fourth-quarter revenue. 

 Total product shipments rose 36% in the fourth quarter and 50% for the fiscal year. The company's European fourth quarter revenue rose 8%, while fourth quarter revenue from the Asia-Pacific region and Japan rose 56%. 

 In a belated bid to woo Internet start-ups, Dell has formed a sales and marketing division to target Internet-service providers and companies that host Web sites. Formation of the division, along with stepped-up investments in Internet-service and Web-hosting companies, signals Dell plans a broad push to ally with service start-ups and sell to the fast-growing market. 

 Many of Dell's rivals already have extensive links to Web start-ups, including offering them cut-rate gear or investments if they sign exclusive or long-term contracts. Dell, along with several computer makers, is counting on Microsoft Corp.'s new Windows 2000 operating software to expand the ability of PC servers to compete for jobs once reserved for high-powered computers that use the Unix operating system and processor chips based on a technology called RISC. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dw2a01227


 Business 
 POWER LUNCH - Humana, Incorporated - CEO - Interview 

 Bill Griffeth 
1,653 words
9 February 2000
05:00
CNBC/Dow Jones Business Video
PFN
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 BILL GRIFFETH, POWER LUNCH ANCHOR:  Humana (URL: http://www.humana.com/) out with fourth quarter earnings today, better than the reduced expectations Wall Street had.  The health care company said that its profits declined by 82 percent to $10 million. Works out to 15 cents a share.  That was 2 cents above the reduced estimates of Wall Street.  Revenues were up by about four percent to $2.6 billion. Humana`s stock, of course, hard hit over the last few years.  And their CEO, Greg Wolf, resigned this past August after yet another profitwarning. The stock currently trading down 5/16 and 7 7/8. 

 Humana`s brand new president and CEO is Michael McCallister, who`s been with the company for a long time.  He joins us today from Louisville, Kentucky to talk about the outlook.  And he`ll take your e-mail questions in just a moment. 

 Mr. McCallister, congratulations, I think.  Thanks for joining us today. 

 MICHAEL MCCALLISTER, PRESIDENT, CEO, HUMANA, INC.:  Thanks, Bill.  I appreciate the invitation. 

 GRIFFETH:  It is clear, I mean, from your press release this morning you are not happy with what happened last year.  What are you trying to do to improve things for 2000? 

 MCCALLISTER:  Well, `99 was a tough year for us.  We`ve put a lot of energy and a lot of work into the last six months, putting our feet back under this company.  And I think our fourth quarter results, while we did beat expectations, are a reflection of some success in that area.  The third quarter also beat results, so we feel pretty good about the fact that we do have our feet back under us.  We`re excited about 2000 and we think we`re going to be seeing improved performance next year. 

 GRIFFETH:  You have announced and, in fact, you have been selling off some assets, some of the areas geographically that you want to be out of. How much longer is that going to take? 

 MCCALLISTER:  Well, it`s something that`s ongoing.  We`ve accomplished much of what we plan to do.  It was all about improving the balance sheet. We did sell our individual business down in Florida.  We sold our HMO business in Las Vegas.  Sold our workers comp business.  These were all assets that we decided were not core to our company, and in an effort to improve our balance sheet, to pay down debt and to strengthen the company in general. We went ahead and made these decisions.  We think they were the right ones. We think its builds a good foundation under the company for next year, but it something we look at on an ongoing basis.  But I think we`re largely finished with the major moves in that regard. 

 GRIFFETH:  I want to get to the e-mail questions, because we have some good ones here, in a second.  But let me just - Big picture.  It`s a horrible time to be in your business.  The uncertainty about the costs of health care.  They continue to rise.  It`s unclear what the government is going to do about that if anything at all.  There are some bills on the table, but is this - I mean, is this a good time to be in this business right now? 

 MCCALLISTER:  This is a great business and it`s a great time, actually. There`s no hiding the fact that this is a very difficult industry right now.  Having said that, the key to success in this business is largely being able to predict your cost, look down the road, understanding where the cost trends are, and be absolutely certain that your premiums are set in a way that you are going to be able to have a margin.  This industry, for several years, was in a very aggressive price-cutting mode.  Those days are over.  The environment is good for the rates that are commensurate with the risks we take.  So it`s an exciting time to see companies like ours in a situation where good times are ahead of us. 

 GRIFFETH:  Which leads me to the first e-mail question from Howard. He writes, "Humana has announced that it is raising premiums.  Do you think this will fix the profitability of the company or are medical costs rising faster than the premium increases?"  I mean, you talk about trying to, you know, get some predictability in there.  How do you do that? 

 MCCALLISTER:  Well, I mean, that`s the actuarial science and underwriting that we have a tremendous amount of energy around.  It isn`t exact. Having said that, it is something that can be done.  We have a lot of business process changes that have occurred here.  We have a lot of discipline around that within this company right now.  So we think costs can be predictable.  But it`s not just rates.  It`s also about paying attention to costs and working on both the administrative side and the medical side. So we`re attacking it from all perspectives. And it can be done, we are doing it.  It`s reflected in our current numbers and we`re real comfortable with where we stand with both our cost projections and the premiums that we`re able to see coming our way in 2000. 

 GRIFFETH:  E-mail question from John.  "Humana`s plans for e-health. With the growth of sites like WebMD, Healtheon (URL: http://www.healtheon.com/) , how do you work with a lot of those?"  You know, is that a way to provide some efficiencies in this market? 

 MCCALLISTER:  Well, this industry and our company is beautifully positioned to take advantage of these new technologies that are out there.  As a matter of fact, we have relationships with Healtheon and WebMD and many, many others.  We`re looking for those type of partnerships.  This is a transaction business once you move out of a physician`s exam room or a patient room in a hospital.  And those transactions can be complicated. We have transaction relationships with providers of all sorts, with employers, with members, with members who are patients.  So there`s a number of transactions in this industry, and it lends itself beautifully to using the Net and other technologies for purposes of reducing administrative costs, but more importantly, bringing some terrific customer service type improvements to this business.  So it`s going to be a win, win, win for everyone as we take advantage of these technologies. 

 GRIFFETH:  A questions from Chad.  "Given the market`s preference for strong top-line growth companies, how do you plan to grow at Humana, especially since acquisition opportunities in your business are scarce?" 

 And let me add to that, of course, you had that failed merger attempt with United Healthcare about 18 months ago.  Is that something that could be in the cards at some point? 

 MCCALLISTER:  Well, I would suggest that acquisition opportunities are not scarce.  They`re numerous.  Having said that, whether they make sense or not is a totally different thing.  There`s over 600-and-some-odd HMOs in this country.  And we all know who the larger players are but there`s a lot of others.  But that`s not necessarily where we need to be or where we want to go.  You can become a growth company in this business by having a value proposition that is different than your competition.  And I believe as we better enable our existing platform and business with the technology that`s out there and take advantage of those new technologies to build different products where people make their own choices, and we drive all of that through the technology platforms, we`re going to have a new model that could potentially set this company up and any other that can get there as a growth company in this environment. 

 GRIFFETH:  Finally, there`s no specific question on this, but there were a number that came in that really had to do with mending fences. There was one from Wisconsin, one from Florida, one from Texas about your relationship with doctors and patients and local health care providers. You know you`ve got work to do along those lines, too, don`t you? 

 MCCALLISTER:  We have a lot of work to do.  And we`re not happy with where we sit in our relationship with our providers and with our members. 

 GRIFFETH:  What do you tell them? 

 MCCALLISTER:  And I think where we`re going to go with that is, in fact, tell them we are listening to them.  We have more providers working with us than we ever have.  So it`s a situation where we still have the relationships and we have something to build on.  And we have a lot of members out there, many, many of which are happy with their plans.  So it`s just a question of understanding what their concerns are, adjusting our business practices around that, and we intend to do that. 

 GRIFFETH:  Mr. McCallister, good luck.  Thanks for joining us today. 

 MCCALLISTER:  Thank you very much. 

 GRIFFETH:  Michael McCallister, the new president and CEO of Humana, joining us today from Louisville.  And we showed you what the stock was doing a little while ago.  Today, down another point or thereabouts in the New York Stock Exchange trading. 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT.  THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 CNBC/Dow Jones Business Video, a division of CNBC/Dow Jones Desktop Video, LLC.  No portions of the materials contained herein may be used in any media without attribution to CNBC/Dow Jones Business Video, a division of CNBC/Dow Jones Desktop Video, LLC.  This transcript may not be copied or resold in any media. 

Document pfn0000020010809dw29000aq




NEWS BRIEFS
BUSINESS
ANSYS PROMOTES CASHMAN; COMPANY'S INCOME CLIMBS 

789 words
9 February 2000
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
PPGZ
SOONER
B-1
English
© 2000 Post Gazette Publishing Company.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.  All rights reserved.  

James E. Cashman III has been promoted to chief executive officer of Ansys Inc., the business software company headquartered in Southpointe. He succeeds Peter J. Smith, who will continue as chairman of the board. 

Cashman, who was elected to the Ansys board of directors, will retain the title of president. 

Cashman, who joined Ansys as executive vice president of operations in 1997, holds two mechanical engineering degrees and a master's of business administration from the University of Cincinnati. 

Separately, Ansys reported record fourthquarter net income of $4.1 million, or 25 cents per diluted share, vs. $3.2 million, or 19 cents per diluted share, a year ago. Revenue rose 15 percent to $17.6 million. For all of 1999, the company earned $14.8 million, or 88 cents per diluted share, vs. $11.3 million, or 68 cents per diluted share, in 1998. Revenue for 1999 increased 12 percent to $63.1 million. 

The company also said it would repurchase up to 1 million shares, or about 6 percent of its shares outstanding. 

Nike sounds profit warning

Shares of athletic footwear and apparel giant Nike Inc. slid nearly 19 percent yesterday after the company warned its results would not meet Wall Street's estimates due to the woes of some of the industry's leading retailers. Nike fell 8 3/8 to 36 7/8 in after- hours trading on the New York Stock Exchange. Nike forecast at least a 20 percent rise in earnings per share for the 12 months ending May 31. However, profits could fall below the current First Call/Thomson Financial consensus estimate of $2.08 a share, since Venator Group Inc.'s Foot Locker and Just For Feet are closing unprofitable stores. 

Earnings 

Aetna Inc. said operating earnings for the fourth quarter rose 19.7 percent, surpassing Wall Street expectations amid faster-than- expected growth in its same-store HMO membership. The company said operating earnings, excluding other items and net realized capital gains or losses and including Y2K costs, rose to $173 million, or $1.18 a share, vs. $144.5 million, or 91 cents a share, a year ago. Operating earnings for all of 1999, including Y2K costs, were $676.4 million or $4.44 a share, vs. $567 million, or $3.52 a share, in 1998. 

Hasbro Inc.'s fourth-quarter earnings rose 18 percent from a year ago, thanks to strong sales of Pokemon toys, Furby dolls and handheld electronic games. Hasbro earned $155.4 million, or 79 cents a share, vs. $131.8 million, or 65 cents a share, a year ago. Sales increased 22 percent to $1.6 billion. Earnings for the year rose to $286.6 million, or $1.42 a share, vs. $220 million, or $1.07 a share, in 1998. Sales increased 28 percent to $4.2 billion. 

Cisco Systems Inc. again beat analyst forecasts, reporting that fiscal second-quarter profit rose 49 percent. The company posted net income of $825 million, or 23 cents a share, an increase from $282 million, or 8 cents a share, a year ago. Sales rose 53 percent to $4.35 billion. Cisco also set a 2-for-1 stock split, which is in effect March 22 for shareholders of record Feb. 22. 

Hickory Farms closing stores 

Hickory Farms, built around seasonal sales of beef sticks and cheese trays, will close its remaining 18 shopping mall stores to focus on catalog and Internet sales. The specialty food store still will operate temporary stores and kiosks in malls during the holidays. The Hickory Farms chain once included 550 stores mainly in shopping malls in the United States and Canada. In the past two decades, sales dropped steadily. Its remaining 18 year-round stores will be closed by the end of March. 

Also in business ... 

Rodney B. Mott has been named chief executive officer of Pechiney's aluminum rolling business, Pechiney Rolled Products LLC. Mott will be based at the Ravenswood, W.Va., operation ... AK Steel said it issued 1999 profit-sharing checks averaging $1,750 to production and maintenance employees at its mills in Ashland, Ky., Middletown, Ohio, and Rockport, Ind. ... The family of a retired welder for LTV Steel who died at age 78 from prolonged exposure to asbestos-containing pipe insulation has been awarded $1.6 million by an Ohio jury. The insulation was made by Pittsburgh Corning Corp., which is owned in part by PPG Industries Inc. ... The parent company of General Nutrition Cos. has acquired all shares of the Chinese company, Wuxi Chia-Tai Pharmaceutical Co. Dutch firm Royal Numico N.V. already claims 55 percent of China's nutritional products for intestinal health.  

Document ppgz000020010812dw2900853




BREAKFAST BRIEFING // CHICAGO
FINANCIAL
BREAKFAST BRIEFING // CHICAGO 

590 words
9 February 2000
Chicago Sun-Times
CHI
English
© 2000 Chicago Sun Times.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.  All rights reserved.  

Medinah TIF proposal submitted The Daley administration proposed Tuesday creating a tax-increment financing district to bolster redevelopment of Medinah Temple, 600 N. Wabash. City officials submitted a proposal for the TIF to the Community Development Commission, which is expected to hold a hearing on it in late March. The TIF would cover the Medinah property and the landmark Tree Studios, 601-23 N. State. Daley has said he wants Medinah, which the Shriners fraternal organization wants to sell, preserved and not torn down for a high-rise. The Sun-Times reported last week that developer Albert Friedman has a contract to buy the property and is negotiating with Bloomingdale's for a furniture store that would anchor a mall at Medinah. General Growth earnings up General Growth Properties Inc., the second-largest shopping-mall owner in the country, said fourth- quarter earnings rose 48 percent as it benefitted from a banner holiday shopping season and higher rents and occupancy rates. 

The Chicago-based real estate investment trust's funds from operations rose to $89.8 million from $60.6 million a year earlier. Revenue was $280.2 million, up from $209.1 million. The company's funds from operations - the best measure of a REIT's performance - exceeded Wall Street's estimates of $1.15 a share, according to a survey of analysts by First Call/Thomson Financial. Aon reports income drop Aon Corp., the world's second-largest insurance broker, said fourth- quarter earnings fell 91 percent, lowered by previously announced cost increases, weaker investment returns and a legal settlement. Net income fell to $13 million, or 5 cents a share, from $139 million, or 53 cents, a year ago. After a Jan. 10 warning from the company, analysts cut profit estimates to an average of 6 cents from 58 cents, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. Motorola, Nortel team up Schaumburg-based Motorola Inc. and Nortel Networks, the telephone and wireless Internet company, will collaborate on advanced Internet products. The companies will offer developers products combining Motorola's communications processors and Nortel's Open IP Environment routing software. The companies expect their combined products will help developers more quickly build Internet products at a lower cost. ATA adds Boston, Seattle flights ATA said Tuesday it will offer nonstop, round-trip service to Boston and Seattle from Midway Airport beginning May 7. ATA will offer three daily flights to Boston. The airline will offer a single flight to Seattle except on Wednesdays and Sundays, when there will be two flights. Introductory fares to Boston are $79 one-way, $99 to Seattle. DigitalWork.com links with AOL DigitalWork.com, the Chicago-based online business agency, has formed an alliance with America Online Inc. AOL will offer DigitalWork.com's services at co-branded sites at AOL.com, Netscape Netcenter and CompuServe. DigitalWork.com provides small businesses with services such as online advertising, direct mail and public relations. ARCH opens office in Texas ARCH Venture Partners, the Chicago seed and early-stage venture capital company, has opened a new office in Austin, Texas. ARCH now has five regional offices. Clinton W. Bybee, ARCH managing director, will head the new office. Mid America buys M &I branches Mid America Bank, the Clarendon Hills stock savings bank with $4.7 billion in assets, agreed to buy two Illinois branch offices of M &I Bank FSB of Milwaukee. The branches are in Burbank and Tinley Park. The transaction involves about $90 million in deposits.  

Document chi0000020010804dw290054w




 SmartPortfolio.Com Announces Investment Opinion 

1,151 words
9 February 2000
01:43
Business Wire
BWR
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Business Wire) 

 WASHINGTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Feb. 8, 2000-- 

 SmartPortfolio.Com Announces Investment Opinion: 

 Nasdaq Hits Record, Cisco Beats Street 

 The following is market news from SmartPortfolio.Com, Inc., located on the web at the newly redesigned site: http://www.smartportfolio.com

 Stock prices are reflective of February 8, 2000 at 6:30 PM, EST. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed up 51.81 (+0.48%) to 10957.60, the S&P 500 closed up 17.51 (+1.23%) to 1441.75, and the Nasdaq closed up 105.73 (+2.45%) to 4427.50. 

 Tech fever continued today, propelling the Nasdaq to another record high, while the Dow closed in positive territory. 

 After Tuesday's closing bell, Cisco Systems (Nasdaq:CSCO) announced quarterly earnings of 25 cents per share, beating First Call consensus estimates of 24 cents per share. The company also set a 2-for-1 stock split, its ninth split since Cisco first became a public company in February 1990. Shares of the networking equipment giant ended higher by 5/8 (+0.50%) to 125 13/16. 

 The most recent issue of the Smart!Splits Report forecasted the Cisco stock split. To read about anticipated and announced stock splits for a host of companies every week, investors are invited to try a 2-week free trial of the Smart!Splits Report by visiting: http://www.smartportfolio.com/freetrials

 A busy week in the IPO market kicked into gear today with two companies making their public debuts and many more set to burst out of the gates. Today, the much-anticipated IPO of Buy.com (Nasdaq:BUYX), a leading online retailer, took place -- and its shares did not disappoint, bolting 93.27% to 25 1/8. Meanwhile, shares of Fastnet (Nasdaq:FSST), a regional Internet service provider, had a respectable one-day performance, rising 38.54% to 16 5/8. 

 Buy.com was a featured company in the most recent issue of the Smart!IPO Report, which provides in-depth analysis of highly anticipated IPOs. Investors interested in learning about upcoming hot IPOs are invited to try a 2-week free trial of the Smart!IPO Report by visiting: http://www.smartportfolio.com/freetrials

 Tobacco stocks performed poorly on the heels of news that a class action lawsuit against the tobacco industry is brewing. The industry's latest round of litigation involves the assertion that cigarette makers have been engaged in illegal price-fixing since the 1980s, allegedly meeting secretly to make agreements on the pricing for wholesale products. Shares of Philip Morris (NYSE:MO) fell 1 1/16 (-5.17%) to 19 1/2, shares of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco (NYSE:RJR) dropped 3/8 (-2.01%) to 18 1/4 and shares of Loews Corp. (NYSE:LTR), which is the parent of Lorillard Tobacco, closed down 4 3/16 (-7.35%) to 52 13/16. 

 Action in the telecom sector was sparked by the joint announcement by Motorola (NYSE:MOT) and Nortel Networks (NYSE:NT) that the two companies will team up to create advanced Internet products that are faster, more secure and more profitable. Under the agreement, developers will be able to use Nortel's open Internet protocol routing technology to build equipment based on Motorola's semiconductor and communications processors. Shares of Motorola rose 1 (+0.63%) to 159 7/8, while shares of Nortel gained 3 1/16 (+2.60%) to 121. 

 Computer hardware stocks finished up for the day, notwithstanding a downgrade of Dell Computer (Nasdaq:DELL), as investors anticipated strong earnings results from Cisco Systems. While Dell shares dropped 9/16 (-1.50%) to 37 1/16 after its rating was cut by Warburg Dillon Read, other PC makers closed higher for the day, with Apple Computer (Nasdaq:AAPL) closing up 13/16 (+0.71%) to 114 7/8 and International Business Machines Corp. (NYSE:IBM) rising 4 13/16 (+4.22%) to 118 13/16. 

 News in the oil and gas sector was topped by Chevron Corp.'s (NYSE:CHV) announcement that it is enhancing its cost-cutting program in an effort to increase its stock price by 15% annually over the next three years. Shares of Chevron closed down 3/4 (-0.95%) to 78 5/16 on the news. 

 Shares of athletic footwear and apparel company Nike (NYSE:NKE) dropped 18.23% (down 8 1/4) to 37 after the company issued a profit warning, saying its fiscal 2000 earnings could fall below First Call consensus estimates of $2.08 per share. Shares of other athletic footwear companies also finished lower for the day, with Reebok International (NYSE:RBK) falling 3/8 (-4.23%) to 8 1/2, Converse Inc. (NYSE:CVE) dropping 1/8 (-9.09%) to 1 1/4 and K-Swiss (NYSE:KSWS) edging lower by 1/16 (-0.51%) to 12 1/4. 

 This is an abbreviated version of the free SmartPortfolio.Com Update. To receive the full free update, please visit http://www.smartportfolio.com. The company does not sell its subscriber lists and e-mail addresses are kept confidential. The company also offers premium services related to Internet stocks, IPOs and stock splits. 

 The following companies also are mentioned in Tuesday's free report: 

 Exxon Mobil Corp. (NYSE:XOM), Atlantic Richfield (NYSE:ARC), BP Amoco (NYSE:BPA), Texaco (NYSE:TX), Sunoco (NYSE:SUN), Amazon.com (Nasdaq:AMZN), America Online (NYSE:AOL), Commerce One (Nasdaq:CMRC), CMGI (Nasdaq:CMGI), Ebay (Nasdaq:EBAY), ExciteAtHome (Nasdaq:ATHM), Exodus (Nasdaq:EXDS), Intel (Nasdaq:INTC), Juniper (Nasdaq:JNPR), Oracle (Nasdaq:ORCL), Qualcomm (Nasdaq:QCOM), Qwest (NYSE:Q), Lucent (NYSE:LU), Schwab (NYSE:SCH), Sun Microsystems (Nasdaq:SUNW), Yahoo! (Nasdaq:YHOO), Home Depot (NYSE:HD), Wal-Mart Stores (NYSE:WMT), JC Penney (NYSE:JCP), Staples (Nasdaq:SPLS), Costco Wholesale Corp. (Nasdaq:COST), Fastnet (Nasdaq:FSST), Reuters Group PLC (Nasdaq:RTRSY), Multex.com (Nasdaq:MLTX), Informix (Nasdaq:IFMX), Optelecom (Nasdaq:OPTC), Global TeleSystems Group (NYSE:GTS), Portal Software (Nasdaq:PRSF), @Plan Inc. (Nasdaq:APLN), StarMedia Network (Nasdaq:STRM), Texas Instruments (NYSE:TXN), Barnesandnoble.com Inc. (Nasdaq:BNBN), Hasbro Inc. (NYSE:HAS), Chiquita Brands International (NYSE:CQB), Aetna Inc. (NYSE:AET), CVS Corp. (NYSE:CVS), Metrocall Inc. (Nasdaq:MCLL), Charter Communications (Nasdaq:CHTR), Covad Communications (Nasdaq:COVD), Elan Corp. (NYSE:ELN), Earthlink Network (Nasdaq:ELNKD), Weyerhaeuser (NYSE:WY), Aetna Plan (NYSE:AET) Sykes Enterprises (Nasdaq:SYKE), About.com (Nasdaq:BOUT), Akami Technologies (Nasdaq:AKAM), Albertson's (NYSE:ABS), Merrill Lynch (NYSE:MER), PSINet (Nasdaq:PSIX), Red Hat (Nasdaq:RHAT), Verio (Nasdaq:VRIO). 

 To read about these companies and to receive the free report, visit: http://www.smartportfolio.com/update

 To subscribe to the Smart!Reports, investors are invited to visit: http://www.smartportfolio.com/freetrials

Document bwr0000020010804dw2900mme




 Business 
 THE DAY ON WALL STREET: Earnings performance, split of stock fuel surge by Cisco 

FROM OUR NEWS SERVICES
470 words
9 February 2000
The Atlanta Constitution
ATJC
Home
D; 13
English
 (Copyright, The Atlanta Journal and Constitution - 2000) 

 Shares of Cisco Systems (ticker symbol CSCO) rose 62 1/2 cents to a record $125.81 1/4 on Tuesday, ahead of the company's earnings release, before falling 37 1/2 cents for the day. 

 But the stock jumped to $131.62 1/2 in the after-hours session as the networking equipment and software company beat profit expectations. 

 Cisco Systems also announced a 2-for-1 stock split, payable March 22 to shareholders of record Feb. 22. 

 The company reported net income of $825 million, or 23 cents a share, against $282 million, or 8 cents, in the year-ago period. Profit excluding acquisition expenses was $906 million, or 25 cents, compared with $609 million, or 17 cents. Analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial forecast profit of 24 cents without the costs. 

 Revenue increased to $4.35 billion, more than analysts' forecasts of $4.02 billion. 

 In other trading: 

 Dell Computer (DELL) shares fell about 6 percent after Warburg Dillon Read downgraded the stock, spooking investors already jittery about the company's prospects following its fourth-quarter profitwarning last month. 

 However, the stock rebounded, closing at $37.06 1/4, down 56 1/4 cents, on market-leading trading volume of almost 69 million shares. 

 Amazon.com (AMZN) rebounded from two straight losses, closing up $8.12 1/2 at $83.12 1/2. The company met with investors and analysts to discuss its outlook. 

 Most of the discussion during meetings rehashed Amazon.com's profitability forecasts and other plans outlined in its fourth- quarter conference call last week, said McDonald Investments analyst Sasha Kostadinov. 

 According to Kostadinov, Amazon.com reassured Wall Street that its latest fourth-quarter loss was a "watermark," and losses should narrow going forward. 

 CVS (CVS) added $3.56 1/4 to $40 after the company beat Wall Street's earnings forecast by two pennies. 

 That made it 13 consecutive quarters, every one since CVS went public in October 1996, in which the company has met or exceeded expectations, Chief Financial Officer David B. Rickard said. 

 Besides posting fourth-quarter earnings of 46 cents a share, compared with First Call/Thomson Financial views of 44 cents, the company handily beat its year-ago figures in every significant category and sees no signs of slowing in the year ahead. 

 Tobacco stocks were under pressure Tuesday as another lawsuit was filed against the industry. The suit accuses the industry of carrying out a "long-running and systematic" plan to fix cigarette prices charged to wholesalers. 

 Among the losers: R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings (RJR), down 37 1/ 2 cents to $18.25, and Philip Morris (MO) off $1.06 1/4 at $19.50. 

Document atjc000020010803dw2900512




 BUSINESS 
 NEW CEO HOPES TO HEAL HUMANA STRUGGLING TO REVERSE PLUNGING PROFIT, HUMANA ALSO WILL SELL A LONGWOOD UNIT. 

 Greg Groeller of The Sentinel Staff 
475 words
4 February 2000
Orlando Sentinel
ORSE
METRO
B1
English
 (Copyright 2000 by The Orlando Sentinel) 

 Humana Inc. got a new chief executive on Thursday, but the 500 employees of Humana's Longwood-based workers' compensation unit won't call him their leader for long. 

 At the same time that Louisville, Ky.-based Humana appointed Michael McCallister as its new chief executive and president, it announced the sale of Humana Workers Compensation Services to Gene Roberts, who has overseen the unit for Humana since 1997. 

 Neither Humana nor Roberts would discuss terms of the transaction, which is expected to close by April 1. 

 McCallister, a senior vice president at Humana, replaces Gregory Wolf, who resigned in August after a profit warning caused the company's stock to plunge. McCallister has led a team of senior Humana executives searching for ways to get back into Wall Street's good graces. 

 To focus on its health-insurance plans, the company has sold several businesses, including its supplemental Medicare and its property and casualty businesses. The workers' compensation division was next on its list. Rather than wait for a new corporate owner, Roberts decided to buy it himself. 

 "It was an opportunity for me to continue to do what I'm doing and for the company to continue to grow," Roberts said. 

 Roberts, who oversaw the division from Humana's headquarters in Louisville, plans to move to Central Florida to lead the company, which will remain based in Longwood. A new name hasn't been chosen for the company, which collects premiums and pays claims for insurers. It has about 18,000 customers and $50 million in annual revenue. 

 About 400 employees work in the Longwood office. An additional 100 work at bureaus in Tampa, San Antonio, Oklahoma City, Louisville, Cincinnati and Las Vegas. No jobs will be cut, Roberts said. 

 The Longwood operation was originally a division of Physician Corporation of America, which was acquired by Humana in 1997. Humana absorbed PCA's managed-care operations and sold its PCA Property and Casualty division in January to FolksAmerica Holding Company Inc. for $125 million. 

 Humana's stock has plunged since April, when the company told investors that future profits would be lower than expected because it hadn't raised premiums enough to keep up with rising medical costs. Humana's stock price fell 48 percent from $16.16 on April 7 to Thursday's close of $8.44. 

 In November, the company said its third-quarter profit fell 60 percent to $22 million, or 13 cents a share, from $54 million, or 32 cents, in the third quarter of 1998. The company has said it plans to take a fourth-quarter charge of as much as $500 million because it may have overpaid for several acquisitions in 1997. 

Document orse000020010809dw240062a


 Business 
 Lycos -  President & CEO Interview on Nightly Business Report 

 Paul Kangas, Susie Gharib 
4,594 words
4 February 2000
23:30
Nightly Business Report
NBR
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 PAUL KANGAS: The NASDAQ Index ends its best week in a quarter of a century today, up 33 points to a record high. Investors buy tech stocks and sell blue chips, concerned they may be hurt by rising interest, so the Dow falls 49 points. Good evening. I`m Paul Kangas in Miami. 

 SUSIE GHARIB: And I`m Susie Gharib in New York City. A new record in the job market: the unemployment rate is at the lowest level in 30 years. Details coming up. Then just whose Web site is it anyway? That`s the question eBay (EBAY) and "Uncle Sam" need to answer. 

 GHARIB: Good evening, everyone. A job boom is sweeping across America: the unemployment rate is now at only 4 percent, its lowest level since 1970 when Americans were wearing bell bottoms and listening to the Beatles. Wall Street had a mixed reaction to the good news from "Main Street." The Dow slipped about 50 points, but the NASDAQ rose 33 to a new record. Scott Gurvey takes a look at today`s job news. 

 SCOTT GURVEY, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: It was another strong jobs report, and unlike previous reports that showed most of the new jobs coming from the services industries. In January, even employment in the nation`s factories gained. 13,000 manufacturing jobs were added in the month. The sector lost 248,000 jobs last year. The construction industries added 110,000 jobs, an unusually high number for January caused by unusually warm weather. The total of 387,000 new jobs added in the month far exceeded Wall Street expectations. And the unemployment rate in this seemingly unstoppable economy fell another notch to 4 percent. That`s a 30-year low. Average hourly earnings rose 0.4 percent to $13.50 in January. That is an indication of wage inflation, but many economists say in the current economic climate it may not be as worrisome as it might have been in the past. 

 MICHELLE GIRARD, TREASURY MARKET STRATEGIST, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: The bottom line is businesses cannot transfer higher wage costs on to consumers, so even if workers earn the higher wages they deserve, it isn`t going to translate in my opinion into a broad-based increase in prices at the consumer level. 

 GURVEY: The bond market traded down on the news. The market is now assuming at least one and probably two more quarter-point interest rate hikes from the Federal Reserve. The question investors are now asking is, "will there be more rate hikes after that?" 

 JOHN RYDING, SENIOR ECONOMIST, BEAR STEARNS: They`re thinking that maybe there`s a couple more between the middle of the year and early next year. So rate moves don`t come as a surprise, and the current level of yields do not appear to be a problem for the equity market, particularly for those stocks like the technology stocks with very, very strong earnings growth rates. 

 GURVEY: Next week the market face the uncertainty of the Treasuries` quarterly refunding. The auctions start on Tuesday and end with the 30-year on Thursday. Scott Gurvey, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, New York. KANGAS: News of that 30-year low in unemployment and the rather sharp rise in wages didn`t stop stocks from opening higher today as Wall Street appeared confident that the Federal Reserve policy will prevent a serious overheating in the economy. The Dow Industrial Average moved to a 61.5-point gain by 10:00 a.m., with New York Exchange breadth 5 to 4 positive while the NASDAQ Index rose 58.5 points. The blue chip rally began to fall apart as morning trading progressed, mainly because of the sharp sell-off in the bond market following yesterday`s massive surge, but the NASDAQ market, led by a very strong biotech sector, extended its gains. Halfway through the noon hour, the Industrial Average fell to a 5.5-point loss while the NASDAQ Index was still sporting a 54.5 point gain. Continuing weakness in the bond market kept the blue chips on the defensive in afternoon trading and took some of the luster out of the NASDAQ market, too. The Dow Jones Industrial Average ended with a loss of 49.64 points at 10963.80. The Dow rose three times and fell twice this week and had an overall advance of 224.93 points, or 2.1 percent. The NASDAQ Composite Index rose 33.16 today to a record 4244.14. It was also a monumental week, this Index rose 357.07 points, or 9.2 percent overall. 

 Big board volume dropped a bit, but still a little over a billion shares. And about a 5 to 4 margin of down volume over up volume. 

 The Dow Transports Index fell 12.63. 

 And the Utility Index had a big drop of 2 percent, as it was off nearly 6 1/3 points. 

 The Closing Tick practically neutral at -41. 

 Standard & Poor`s 500 fell .60. 

 But the S&P 100 up over 3 1/2. 

 MidCap 400 fell 1.89. 

 CRB Bridge Futures Price Index had a big jump, up over 3 points mainly due to gold and oil. 

 And New York Stock Exchange Composite Index down nearly 2 3/4 points. 

 About a 2/3 point drop in the Value Line. 

 Russell2000 Small Cap Index rose 3.89. 

 While the Wilshire 5000 dropped 2.15. 

 The strong jobs report with more than a hint of upward pressure on wages sent bond prices broadly lower today. And of course the huge gains yesterday made this market very vulnerable to profit takers. Another negative factor was a sizable 79 cent rise to $28.82 per barrel in March New York oil futures, and the continuing inverted yield curve also made traders a bit nervous. As a result, tax-free and corporates ended down 5/8 to 3/4 of a point on average, and the Treasury market closed down across the board. 

 5-year notes off 19/32 . The 10-year notes down 21/32. 

 And the Bellwether 30-year bond down 1 7/32, bringing the yield back up to 6.22 percent. 

 And the Lehman Brothers Long-Term Treasury Bond Index fell 11.30 points. 

 I`ll be back shortly to show you where the action was on Wall Street today. Susie. 

 GHARIB: Paul, as you just said, a rally is under way in the price of gold. April futures closed up in New York at $313, up $23 an ounce. That is a three month high. Gold prices were already trending up this year. But today, Placer Dome (PDG), the Canadian gold producer, suspended its hedging activity in anticipation of an improving market and prices soared. Hedging lets a company guard against a drop in prices by selling future production at a fixed price. 

 KANGAS: In other news tonight, the Justice Department is investigating whether Internet auction giant eBay (EBAY) is unfairly blocking competitors from searching its site. Those competitors are companies called online aggregators and they search eBay and other Web sites to find the lowest prices. As Darren Gersh reports, the case could have far reaching consequences for the Internet. 

 DARREN GERSH, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: eBay says its discussions with Justice Department lawyers may have been prompted by complaints from competitors such as Bidder`s Edge. In December, eBay sued Bidder`s Edge, charging the so-called online aggregator with trespassing into eBay`s computer system, misusing eBay`s content and confusing customers. 

 DAN MACKEIGAN, INTERNET ANALYST, FRIEDMAN, BILLINGS, RAMSEY: For eBay, there`s a lot at stake here. They want to maintain the integrity of their community. 

 GERSH: The Justice Department is reportedly investigating how eBay uses software to block competitors from searching its listings. The online auction giant has reached agreements with some other online aggregators to access eBay`s listings with some restrictions. Former government antitrust lawyer Steven Sunshine argues the Justice Department is sending a message that antitrust law applies even to the fast moving Internet. Sunshine says just by starting the preliminary investigation the Justice Department has signaled it believes there is at least a possibility the facts will show eBay is a monopoly. 

 STEVEN SUNSHINE, FORMER JUSTICE DEPARTMENT, ANTITRUST LAWYER: They`re trying to look and see is there some business practice out there that we can nip in the bud, for lack of a better word, if we can keep eBay from turning into something like, you know, for instance, what the government alleges with Microsoft. 

 GERSH: The issues at stake in the eBay preliminary investigation controlling content and customer experience, are crucial to many other Internet companies, which is why e-businesses will be watching this case closely. 

 MACKEIGAN: We`re kind of pushing on a new frontier here of what is the constitutional right of content that is on the Internet? Is it open to everybody to build a business model off of? 

 GERSH: Bidder`s Edge says the issue is protecting the Internet`s openness. eBay calls the issue a commercial one, and says it`s merely protecting the integrity of its systems. Darren Gersh, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, Washington. 

 KANGAS: The stock market reverted to its recent habit of seeing the blue chips weaken and the NASDAQ strengthen, off nearly 50 points on the Dow today. But for the week it was up, as you heard earlier, 225 points. The broader market lower by only a 15 to 14 margin and only seven more new lows for the year than new highs. 

 American Online (AOL) topped the active list on 15.1 million shares, losing 2 5/8. 

 Then Lucent Technologies (LU) up 7/8. 

 Mattel (MAT) down 1 7/16 in the wake of the resignation of its CEO, Joe Barad, yesterday, and of course the company also posted a fourth quarter loss. 

 Compaq Computer (CPQ) down a 1/2 point. Vodafone AirTouch (VOD) down 3 3/4. It looks like they have closed that deal, of course, to acquire Mannesmann, the largest takeover in history, I believe. 

 Newell Rubbermaid (NWL) was down 3 7/8. Yesterday the company had just slightly higher fourth quarter earnings on just a slight rise in revenues and today the Robert Bear Brokerage downgraded the stock a notch because the company seems to be guiding analysts` earnings estimates lower for the fourth quarter. 

 Philip Morris (MO) dropped 1/2. 

 And then Nortel Network (NT) doing well, up 12 9/16. The William Blair Brokerage began covering the stock with a "buy" today. 

 Citigroup down 1 5/16. 

 And AT&T (T) moved up 7/16. 

 Abbott Laboratories (ABT) had a good day, up 1 3/16 after the Alex Brown Brokerage issued a strong "buy" on that stock. Circuit City stores rising 5 1/2. January same store sales up a respectable 9 percent and Prudential Securities upgraded the stock from "accumulate" to a "strong buy." 

 Global TeleSystems (GTS) up 3 3/8, positive reaction to news the company will acquire Netcom Internet Limited, that`s a British firm, for $91 million in Global stock. 

 Marshall and Illsley (MI) was up 2 15/16. The story here, the company is reportedly in talks to be acquired by Northwestern Mutual Life. 

 Seagram Limited (VO) down 4 1/8. The "Financial Times of London" reports the company may seek a buyer for its Universal Studios unit. CIBC World Markets Brokerage downgraded the stock from "strong buy" to just a "buy." 

 And then Waters Corp. (WAT) up 10 3/4 after the Bear Stearns Brokerage repeated a "buy" recommendation and increased earnings estimates. 

 Icici Limited (IC), I believe that`s the way it`s pronounced, up 5 3/8. This is a financial services company based in India and last week it had third quarter earnings up 51 percent. Could be a delayed reaction. 

 Placer Dome (PDG) up 2 1/8. As you saw earlier, gold futures for April in New York up $23.10 an ounce, all the way up to $313 an ounce. 

 Wolverine Worldwide (WWW) up 2 3/16. The company in with fourth quarter earnings nicely higher, $0.48 up from $0.36 last year on a 6 percent rise in sales. Those earnings were a penny above the Street estimate. 

 Aeroflex (ARX) continuing to move, up another 2 7/8 after gaining 4 1/2 yesterday on better than expected second quarter earnings. And the A.G. Edwards Brokerage also upgraded the stock to a "buy." 

 USEC (USU) was down 1 3/8. This company had some bad news today. Earnings were all right, 36 versus 32, but it issued a profit warning about fiscal year 2001 overall and cut its dividend in half and Prudential Securities downgraded it from "hold" to "sell." 

 Discount Auto Parts (DAP) losing 1 3/8. Advest Brokerage cut fiscal year 2000 earnings from $1.89 down to $1.75 a share. 

 NASDAQ trading, a gain of 33.16 today and for the week, of course, up 357 points or 9.2 percent and it`s at a record now. Volume was up 22.4 million shares from yesterday, about 21 stocks higher for every 19 lower. Cisco Systems (CSCO) up 3 5/16, topping the active list. 

 And then Yahoo! (YHOO) down 6 3/4. 

 Intel (INTC) edged up a small fraction. 

 And Microsoft (MSFT) gaining almost 3 points. 

 QUALCOMM (QCOM) was down 1 3/4, a real mixture here. 

 JDS Uniphase (JDSU) fell 4 5/8. 

 No change at all in Sun Micro (SUNW) on the day. 

 And Avanex (AVNX) went public today. This company makes fiber optic products and six million shares offered at 36. The stock opened at 183 and the high of the day was 200 and closed with a gain of 378 percent. Not bad for one day. 

 Ariba (ARBA) up over 10 points. 

 And then Oracle (ORCL) was up 1 1/8. 

 FirePond (FIRE), this is a new issue involved in Internet software. Five million shares offered at 22, opened at 52, the high of the day 102 5/16. 

 And AniGenics (AGEN), this is a new issue as well, 3 1/2 million shares offered at 18, opened at 43, the high of the day 64, backed off just a bit. 

 And eMerge Interactive (EMRG) went public today on 8 million shares offered at 15, opened at 65, the high of the day 70 1/2. 

 The American Exchange Index down 5.36 today. For the week, though, it was up about 14 3/4. 

 Chequemate International (DDD) up 2 1/8. The company`s involved in three dimensional television and the Access One Financial Company, a brokerage, issued a "buy" with a one year target of $40 a share. 

 DRYCLEAN USA (DCU) fell 1 1/4, a big percentage drop, after reporting lower second quarter earnings of only $0.05, down from $0.07 last year. 

 And finally, the Index Shares a mixed picture, but the NASDAQ 100s the only gainer. 

 And that`s the Wall Street Wrap Up. Susie? 

 GHARIB: OK, Paul. The recent deal between AOL (AOL) and Time Warner (TWX) might have been a wake up call for the Internet world, but not for executives at rival Internet portal Lycos (LCOS). They say they`re staying their course on the Web. Jeff Yastine looks at where it takes them, and talks with Lycos` CEO, Robert Davis. 

 JEFF YASTINE, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: Lycos has been busy pursuing an international expansion strategy. The most recent is an alliance with Bell Canada, creating a site called Sympatico Lycos with Canadian content for Web surfers in that country. It`s also in the midst of rolling out Lycos branded sites in Latin America to go along with established ones in Europe and Asia. And coming off last year`s failed deal with Barry Diller`s USA Networks (USAI), executives at Lycos say they don`t feel the need to match AOL`s merger with time Warner. 

 ROBERT DAVIS, PRESIDENT & CEO, LYCOS: I don`t think it changes it. I think it was a good deal for AOL and Time Warner but it was too companies, in my mind, that came together from necessity. It`s my belief that AOL is under increasing pressure for new subscriber growth and will be under it even more so in the months ahead. Free ISP is the wave of the future. We`ll be offering our own free ISP very shortly, as I suspect much of the market will be, and it`s going to be awfully difficult to explain why you you`re spending $22 a month with AOL when the rest of it`s free. So I think it was a smart deal for them. I think secondly what it does is it validates a strategy for us that we have deployed for quite some time. And what Lycos does differently than the rest of the world is we built a multi branded network and a variety of brands appealing to a variety of consumers for a variety of different interests. And that has really been our differentiation. 

 YASTINE: I also wanted to talk a little bit about the USA Networks` attempted merger. The stock was hammered pretty hard by Wall Street. Would you still consider doing some kind of a merger like that, old media and new media, in the future at some time? 

 DAVIS: It`s all relative. That was over a year ago, of course, that we looked at it, but it`s interesting, we mentioned it being slammed pretty hard, the stock was down less than AOL is down on the Time Warner merger, so I guess it`s all relative to what we say. That was a transaction when new media and old media were sort of coming together. But more importantly, it was a transaction where Lycos as a portal was coming together with a commerce. So we`ve gone done a separate path since that. We`ve built up our own commerce infrastructure and our own commerce assets and we have a very, very strong business underneath us. 

 YASTINE: And one last question as far as what we`re looking at for five years down the road for Lycos. What do you see Lycos doing? What do you think the company is going to be five years from now? 

 DAVIS: Five years down the road, that is such a long time considering we`re not five years old yet, but if you look at where we are, we will be a, I think, a global powerhouse. I don`t want to sound too cavalier when I make that statement but our presence in the U.S. will be stronger. Our presence internationally will continue to expand. You`ll see us in virtually every corner of the world. 

 YASTINE: Mr. Davis, thanks very much for talking with us. 

 DAVIS: My pleasure. 

 YASTINE: Our guest, Bob Davis, CEO of Lycos. 

 KANGAS: Monday, looking for an investment that could take off? Check out the air freight industry. 

 GHARIB: Bell South is disconnecting thousands of its employees from its workforce. It`s cutting 2,100 jobs, or more than 2 percent of its employees. Bell South wants to centralize its administrative services and eliminate redundant positions, but it`s still expanding its sales and marketing staffs. The stock jumped on the news, up 1 1/8 to 45 3/16. 

 KANGAS: Delta Airlines (DAL) is letting its employees take off on the World Wide Web. The airline is offering its 72,000 employees personal computers and Internet access for $12 a month. Delta says the program will pave the way for a wired workforce and make it possible for employees to connect with the company from home. Just yesterday, Ford Motor (F) announced a similar deal for its employees. 

 GHARIB: Coming up next week, our Friday market monitor is Conrad Hermann, portfolio manager at Franklin Templeton. In the BridgeNews watch on Monday, President Clinton`s fiscal 2001 budget comes out. Tuesday, Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers testifies about it before the Senate Finance Committee. Then on Thursday, Summers goes back to the Hill, this time with Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan, for a hearing on derivatives. KANGAS: My guest market monitor this week is Charles Laloggia, the editor of the "Super Stock Investor Market" newsletter based in Rochester, New York. Tonight he comes to us from our New York City studios and welcome back, Charles. 

 CHARLES LALOGGIA, EDITOR, SUPERSTOCK INVESTOR: Thanks for having me, Paul. 

 KANGAS: Given today`s news of a 30 year low in unemployment and higher wage pressures, this week`s Federal Reserve interest rate hike looks quite timely. But do you think that the big rally in bonds due to the Treasury`s buy backs will neutralize the Fed`s tightening efforts? 

 LALOGGIA: No, I don`t think so. In fact, the bond market was down 2 points today. I think the rally we had in bonds was a technical rally based on the fact that some hedge funds may have been short. I think bond yields will go where they need to go based on Fed policy and based on inflation. And to me that means yields are going higher throughout the year. 

 KANGAS: Well, that brings to mind this question, I mean obviously, the Fed chairman wants to kind of slow down the economy and the market a bit. So the question is raising the margin requirement for purchasing stocks seems to be a perfect way to slow down the stock market. Why is Fed Chairman Greenspan so hesitant to do that? And that ask the market monitor question, incidentally tonight comes from viewer Richard Wolf. 

 LALOGGIA: Good question, Richard. It`s interesting you should ask that question because I`m the Wall Street editor of a Web site called Movieplace.com that talks about media and entertainment stocks. And on that site, I wrote a column about that very question which is my answer is there are two stock markets. There is the broad market, which has been basically weak, especially the value stocks, and the tech market, which has been basically strong. If the Fed raises margin rates, it will affect the entire stock market, not just the tech stocks but the value stocks, and the value stocks don`t need to be cooled off. They`re ice cold. I mean they`re in a cryogenic deep freeze as it is. I don`t think the Fed`s going to raise margin rates because it will affect the whole market and really the value stocks are having enough trouble as it is. 

 KANGAS: Right. And so it will be too strong a psychological weapon, in other words? 

 LALOGGIA: I think so. 

 KANGAS: All right, now, of course, your specialty, Charles, is picking super stocks, according to your letter, and many of them you pick on the basis that they`re potential takeover targets. 

 LALOGGIA: Yes. 

 KANGAS: You`ve had a very good record. I think of some 120 stocks you`ve recommended over the last few years 44 of them were taken over. 

 LALOGGIA: Yes. 

 KANGAS: From what kind of premiums? 

 LALOGGIA: Anywhere from 25 percent to 200 percent. 

 KANGAS: Give us a couple of these 200 percent potential takeovers, would you? 

 LALOGGIA: OK. One stock, this is, actually this is a column that`s up on Movieplace.com tonight, it just appears tonight. It`s about Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer (MGM). The symbol is MGM. And it relates to the AOL/Time Warner merger, which to me indicates that content is going to be what Internet companies require. Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer has the largest film library in the world, over 4,100 titles, 9,000 television shows. They have been acquiring film rights over the last couple of years and buying back rights to the old MGM classics and I think the value of that Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer library is going to increase dramatically over time and I think at some point if investors are looking for takeover possibilities, content companies, I think Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer is one that has sort of been overlooked. It`s controlled by Kurk Cokerian so you`re not going to get a hostile takeover. 

 KANGAS: OK. 

 LALOGGIA: But it`s a possibility nonetheless. 

 KANGAS: All right, let`s have another selection. 

 LALOGGIA: One of my favorite takeover candidates right now, this is from my newsletter, "Super Stock Investor," is Weiss Markets. The symbol is WMK, a supermarket company. The Weiss family, certain members of the family that own 41 percent of that company are indicating that they would like to have that company sold. The stock right now is in the low 40s, I think it could be worth $60 or more. This is a company with $10 a share in cash and no debt and I think the stock market is underestimating the potential takeover value of Weiss Markets. So that would be one of my top picks. 

 KANGAS: We have less than a minute left, Charles, perhaps time for one more. 

 LALOGGIA: OK. Young Broadcasting. The symbol is YBTVA. It`s around $44 a share. They own 12 television stations. I think you will see takeovers of smaller television broadcasting companies in the next year or two. This is a company that actually looked into selling itself in 1998, which was not the best time to put your company up for sale, if you remember the Asian crisis. But I think those, the takeover possibility in Young Broadcasting could resurface and that would be another one of my favorite takeover possibilities. 

 KANGAS: We shall be looking closely at these, Charles and thanks very much for being with us. 

 LALOGGIA: OK. My pleasure, Paul. Thank you. 

 KANGAS: My guest Charles Laloggia, editor of the "Super Stock Investor." 

 GHARIB: Recapping today`s action, the markets go their separate ways. The Dow fell 49 points, but the NASDAQ gained 33 to a new record high. And please join us at our World Wide Web site, NBR.com, or on America Online, keyword: NBR. 

 GHARIB: And that`s NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT for Friday, February 4th. I`m Susie Gharib. Have a great weekend, everyone. And the same to you, Paul. 

 KANGAS: And you, too, Susie. I`m Paul Kangas, wishing all of you the best of good buys. 

 Nightly Business Report transcripts are available on-line post-broadcast. The program is transcribed by FDCH. Updates may be posted at a later date. 

 The views of our guests and commentators are their own and do not necessarily represent the views of Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. Nightly Business Report, or WPBT. 

 Information presented on Nightly Business Report is not and should not be considered as investment advice. 

 c2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. 

 END 

 TO PURCHASE A VIDEOTAPE OF THIS PIECE, PLEASE CALL  888-266-3601 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc.  Formatting and transcription copyright 2000 eMediaMillWorks, Inc.  (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No quotes from the materials contained herein may be used in any media without attribution to Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. This transcript may not be copied or resold in any media. 

Document nbr0000020010808dw240000p




 TECH WEEK IN REVIEW: Politics And Online Wine Merchants 

 By Jason Fry and Megan Doscher 
The Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition
1,779 words
4 February 2000
23:09
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- The Web is remaking business after business, sweeping away middlemen and putting immense power into the hands of consumers. But there's one business that's digging in its heels against the force of change, thanks largely to a class of powerful, entrenched middlemen who have the ears of state legislators and of Congress. 

 Welcome to the ludicrous politics of wine online, where the brand-new phenomenon of electronic-commerce has run squarely into one of the world's oldest phenomena: the not-so-gentle art of squalid politicking. 

 This week, Swedenburg Estates Vineyards, of Middleburg, Va., sued New York state in an effort to overturn a law in that state that makes it illegal for out-of-state wineries to ship directly to consumers. Swedenburg's court action is the fifth in a series of lawsuits filed in an effort to do away with a welter of conflicting state laws that have hamstrung the growth of direct wine sales over the Internet. 

 According to the Institute for Justice, a libertarian group supporting Swedenburg's lawsuit, 30 states have laws that prohibit out-of-state wineries from shipping directly to consumers, with such sales actually counting as felonies in Florida, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, North Carolina and Tennessee. 

 Such restrictions have put shackles on the industry: Wine sales via the Internet and telephone account for as much as $500 million in sales in a $17 billion industry, but it's a sure bet that such sales would grow substantially if a wine Web site didn't have to worry about a different law in each state -- and if a hapless customer didn't have to worry that ordering a nice cabernet could lead to jail time. 

 What online wine retailers face in many states is a three-tiered distribution system of manufacturers, wholesalers and real-world retailers, a system that dates back to 1933's 21st Amendment. 

 The 21st Amendment's principal function was to repeal Prohibition; its secondary functions were to allow states that wanted to stay dry to do so and to try and create a distribution system that wasn't controlled by organized crime. What the amendment wasn't designed to do -- and yet does do today -- was let states interfere with the free flow of trade across state borders, something forbidden by the Constitution. 

 The wholesalers and distributors in various states are the inheritors of the unintended windfall from this Depression-era legislation. They're exactly the kind of mandarin middlemen who once gummed up the works of commerce everywhere and are now being put out on the streets by "disintermediation," the MBA word for the Web's ability to put a world of buyers in direct contact with a world of sellers. 

 So why aren't these particular middlemen looking for new careers? Because they represent a powerful interest group whose lobbyists whisper sweet nothings into the ears of attorneys general eyeing governor's mansions, and because their lobbyists hurl wads of cash at state legislators and Congressmen. This is one issue where the balance of power is in fact threatening to shift against consumers -- both houses of Congress have debated bills that would give state attorneys general the ability to ask federal courts to block shipments of wine to states where it is outlawed. 

 Flacks for these middlemen put the issue differently, of course, consistently referring to out-of-state sales as "illegal bootlegging." They argue that online sales make it impossible for states to collect excise and sales taxes. This much is true -- but it's also true of action figures, books, CDs and every other thing sold online. That question is a searing debate in Congress, and with good reason. 

 The other part of their argument is decidedly disingenuous: that online wine sales are an avenue for underage drinkers to order liquor online. If so, it's a poorly traveled avenue at best. Here's some information the wine lobby already knows perfectly well: Even in God-fearing communities enriched by the presence of liquor wholesalers and their families, kids get booze by finding stores that don't care (they do exist, believe it or not) or with a well-placed $10 in the parking lot. Nor would any teen who wanted to retain a shred of social status stock a rec-room boozefest with cases of Bourdeaux. ("Dude, chug that Lafite!") 

 In an admittedly unscientific survey, three Tech Center editors who are Web-savvy and on average just six years removed from the stratagems of illegally scrounging alcohol took to the Web to see if we could score. We found no way to reliably order the kind of booze that might pass muster in the burbs on a Saturday night: No cases of Beast or Stroh's, no Thunderbird, no nothing. If the Elliot Nesses of the wholesalers' lobby would like to enlighten us on what we're missing, they can write to us below. 

 Who will win when empowered consumers go toe-to-toe with entrenched lobbyists? In the short run, one has to bet on the lobbyists -- or at least on a stalemate. But in the long run, the smart money's on the consumers -- and the Web. Here's lifting a glass to their chances. 


   Hardware and Software



VA Linux Systems Inc. agreed to acquire Andover.Net Inc. for about
$913.3 million in cash and stock. The deal combines two Linux-related
companies.



Storage Technology Corp. said that its chairman and chief executive is
resigning and warned that it will post a fourth-quarter loss.



Oracle Corp. said it has quintupled the size of its in-house
venture-capital fund, following a banner first year.



Intel Corp. landed a $1.5 billion contract to supply Sweden's Telefon
AB L.M. Ericsson with flash-memory chips for its mobile phones.



Eastman Kodak Co. and Hewlett-Packard Co. announced a joint venture to
develop and manufacture inkjet digital photo-processing machines.



An expert in the Microsoft Corp. case argued that courts shouldn't be
afraid to enforce antitrust laws for software. The White House said it
is taking further steps to ease curbs on exporting high-powered
computers to China, Russia, Israel and 47 other nations.
   Internet and Online



An Internet-tax panel has begun to focus on a multiyear extension of
the current moratorium on new Internet taxes as a compromise measure.



The U.S. Justice Department is looking into online-auctioneer eBay
Inc.'s efforts to bar entry onto its Web site of software "bots" that
roam the Internet.



Amazon.com Inc. agreed to an alliance with Living.com, which sells
furniture and other home products online, and will buy an 18% stake in
the Web retailer. Amazon also said it will buy a 5% stake in Audible
Inc. for an undisclosed price and will offer Audible's spoken-word
online recordings at Amazon's Web site.



Spain's Terra Networks SA said Juan Perea, the CEO of the highflying
Internet firm, has resigned.



A music-retailing trade group is suing Sony Music Entertainment,
seeking to stop it from putting features into its compact disks that
link consumers to Sony-controlled Web sites.



Ford Motor Co. is offering Hewlett-Packard computers and printers and
Internet access for $5 a month to all its workers. The firm also will
create a corporate Web portal.



BMG Entertainment and Universal Music Group may invest further in
their getmusic.com Web retailing venture.



Expedia Inc. said it agreed to buy two online lodging companies,
Travelscape.com and VacationSpot.com, in separate transactions valued at
a total of about $152.6 million in stock and warrants.
   Telecommunications and Cable



Mannesmann AG agreed to vote on Vodafone AirTouch PLC's $182 billion
merger offer, ending a protracted battle for the German telecom firm,
people familiar with the situation said. The deal would create the
world's largest wireless provider.



Corning Inc. plans to invest some $750 million in a massive 50%
expansion of its global fiber-making capacity.



Earnings



ABB AG reported its 1999 net profit rose 24% to $1.61 billion, fueled
by the Swiss systems-and-engineering firm's shift to high-tech
businesses.



Alcatel SA posted a 28% rise in full-year operating profit to $1.25
billion, boosted by a strong fourth-quarter performance from its
expanded portfolio of telecom-related businesses.



Amazon.com Inc. reported a $323.2 million fourth-quarter loss, its
largest to date, though its book unit was profitable and overall sales
nearly tripled.



Baan Co. posted a deep loss, in line with an earlier profit warning.
The Dutch software maker continues to seek a CEO and has hired Lazard
Freres to help find strategic partners.



CNET Inc. beat Wall Street expectations and doubled its revenue for
the latest quarter. Its results were bolstered by strong gains in its
investment portfolio.



CompUSA Inc. reported a net loss of $2 million for its fiscal second
quarter, better than expectations, and said it is re-evaluating its
four-month-old Cozone Web site due to its poor performance.



Electronic Data Systems Corp. said fourth-quarter net income tumbled
70% after a restructuring charge, but operating results beat analysts'
estimates as margins and revenue perked up.



FreeMarkets Inc. issued its first earnings report as a public company,
despite posting a narrower-than-expected loss and sharply higher
revenue.



Nokia Corp. reported a continued sharp rise in wireless-phone sales
and a 52% jump in fourth-quarter pretax profit.



Omnitel reported 1999 net profit more than doubled from a year
earlier. The Italian telecom provider's revenue rose 62%.



PeopleSoft Inc. posted a decline in revenue for its latest period, but
still topped estimates amid signs it is pulling out of a lengthy slump.



Sprint Corp. posted a 3% boost in fourth-quarter earnings amid strong
growth in its core long-distance phone business and surging demand for
its wireless services.
   Initial Public Offerings



BlueStar Communications Group Inc. and Numerical Technologies Inc.
filed for IPOs Monday, to sell up to $200 million and $70 million in
stock, respectively.



Shares of NetValue SA surged, as the French Internet
audience-measurement firm made a smashing debut on Paris's Nouveau
Marche.



Network communications company Ibeam Broadcasting Corp. on Tuesday
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission to sell up to $170
million of common stock in an initial public offering.



Telaxis shares opened at nearly three times their offering price after
pricing at $17 each, higher than the expected range of $14 to $16.


Document dj00000020010805dw2400kcs




 Cupid and People2People.com Reveal What Men and Women Really Want for Valentine's Day; Yankelovich Survey Says Romantic Weekend Away is Top Gift Choice for Both Men and Women 

868 words
2 February 2000
12:17
Business Wire
BWR
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Business Wire) 

 BOSTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Feb. 2, 2000--What does she really want for Valentine's Day? Well, skip the lingerie shop and head straight to the travel agent. According to a Yankelovich Partners survey released today, only one percent of women are hoping for sexy lingerie this Valentine's Day. So what says "I love you" best? The good news is, it's the same for men and women -- a romantic weekend getaway. The survey was sponsored by People2People.com, the Internet's premier dating and relationship community serving more than 900,000 active members. 

 You Don't Bring Her Flowers, but that May Be O.K. 

 To kick off the first Valentine's Day of the new millennium, People2People.com is answering the age-old question, "What should I get her?" The top three gifts women most want for Valentine's Day are: 

 -- Number One: A romantic weekend away (35 percent) 

 -- Number Two: A sentimental card or love note (14 percent) tied for the number two spot with jewelry (14 percent) 

 -- Number Three: Good old-fashioned candy and flowers (12 percent) 

 Perhaps a result that doesn't surprise many women, but will likely disappoint a few boyfriends and husbands -- lingerie was at the bottom of almost every woman's wish list. 

 Don't Bother to Buy for a Guy 

 This Valentine's Day, women should ignore the urge to wander aimlessly around malls looking for gifts that will tell men exactly how they feel. Instead, they should drag out their luggage or perhaps their pasta makers. Here is exactly what men want on February 14th: 

 -- Number One: A romantic weekend away (33 percent) 

 -- Number Two: A night on the town with their favorite date (21 percent) 

 -- Number Three: An intimate dinner cooked by their Valentine (17 percent) 

 Even though it may seem that men never really appreciate those love notes, the survey revealed that many men actually value written expressions of love. In fact, more men would rather get a simple, but sentimental card or love note (10 percent) than tickets to their favorite sporting event (8 percent), an accessory such as a watch or cuff links (3 percent) or, the least popular gift choice, a premium box of cigars (2 percent). 

 More Saps than Skeptics 

 How many times have you heard people lament the commercialism, pressure and stress associated with Valentine's Day? Do you think they would jump at a chance to banish the holiday from the millennium calendar? If you do, you couldn't be more wrong. 

 In a separate Yankelovich survey, 1,000 singles were asked to confess their true feelings about Valentine's Day. A whopping 90 percent of men and women admitted they want to keep on lovin' Valentine's Day, and would not cancel it if given a chance. Most say Valentine's Day is here to stay because it is a fun, romantic tradition. Seven percent of cynical singles actually would prefer to cancel Valentine's Day. Most believe the holiday is over-hyped and over-advertised (73 percent). Many feel it is just too expensive (59 percent). 

 Lastly, the survey revealed that 54 percent of people polled consider Valentine's Day the most important day of the year to have a date. Cupid's holiday ranks higher than New Year's Eve (43 percent), weddings (36 percent) and even their own birthdays (29 percent). 

 "Finally the truth is out -- regardless of their relationship status, people really love romance and enjoy celebrating Valentine's Day," said Meghan Goldstein, marketing director and relationship expert, People2People.com. "I hope this survey inspires people to embrace this day of romance, whether they have someone special or are still looking for their Valentine." 

 Yankelovich Partners conducted both surveys for People2People.com. The "Should Valentine's Day be Canceled?" survey was conducted in December 1999 and sampled 1,000 singles age 18 and over. The margin of error for this survey was plus or minus 3 percent. The "What Men and Women Want Most" survey sampled 505 women and 508 men age 18 or older. Interviews for the second survey were conducted between January 20 and January 23, 2000. The margin of error is plus or minus 4.4 percent. 

 People2People.com is the Web's largest online relationship and dating community with more than 900,000 active members and 40,000 new members joining each month. Since its launch in 1996, People2People.com has enabled more than 1.5 million people to meet online to find friends, dates and long-term relationships. The company has raised the standard for online dating by providing its members with the safest, fastest and most effective matching system available. People2People.com is based in Boston, Massachusetts, and is owned by Tele-Publishing International, the leader in Internet, newspaper, radio and voice personals in the US and UK. 

Document bwr0000020010804dw2200ihq

Search Summary

 Text((“profit*” same “warning*”) or ("disappoint*" same "result*") or ("decreas*" same "profit*") or ("compan*" same "downturn*") or ("unexpect*" same "loss*"))   Date02/01/2000 to 02/29/2000   SourceAll Sources   AuthorAll Authors   CompanyAll Companies   Subject Not Corporate/Industrial News   IndustryAll Industries   RegionUnited States   LanguageEnglish   Results Found24   Timestamp28 March 2018 17:53  
 Page 94 of 94     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

