 
•	 Clippers down 3 and 0-12
•	  Councilman says city dollars unlikely for non-profits 
•	  MALAYSIA SAYS GOOD TIMES ARE BACK FOR THE ECONOMY 
•	  DaimlerChrysler reports strong earnings for 1998, despite high merger costs 
•	  FOCUS ON FILINGS: Gadzooks Execs Like Stock's Fit >GADZ 
•	  The bright and dark sides of the US market. 
•	  JD Edwards Sees Premisys Buy Enhancing Supply-Chain Software 
•	  Investors Weigh European Stocks --- Sentiment Remains Cautious but Wary 
•	 EDITORIALS
•	  Heard on the Street: Robertson's Tiger Hedge Fund Loses Momentum 
•	  Danish shares revive, Unidanmark dominates, outlook negative. 
•	  WORLD BONDS-Dollar bloc at risk from forex falls. 
•	  Small-Cap Stocks Cut Losses As Nasdaq Turns Higher 
•	 STATE AUDIT RAISED RED FLAGS, BUT NOTHING WAS DONE
•	  Analysis: Hour 2; business news 

SPORTS
Clippers down 3 and 0-12

Joe Hamelin; The Press-Enterprise   
527 words
28 February 1999
Riverside Press-Enterprise
RVSD
ALL ZONES
C02
English
Copyright 1999 The Press-Enterprise. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank, Inc.   

LOS ANGELES

The Clippers played their third game in as many nights Saturday evening without two of their starters - and in the opening quarter a third man went down.

The result seemed predictable, and the Clippers did not disappoint: Atlanta, 103-74.

Twelve losses and counting to open the season.

Playing before 11,563 at Anaheim Arena, the Clippers were without forward Maurice Taylor and center Michael Olowokandi, both injured, then lost point guard Sherman Douglas when he restrained his groin. Douglas, who signed with LA on Feb. 4, had just won the starting job from Darrick Martin.

Grant Long's 15 points led seven in double figures for the Hawks. Dikembe Mutombo had 11 rebounds and Mookie Blaylock 10 assists.

Tyrone Nesby, an undrafted rookie forward out of Nevada-Las Vegas who stayed busy (and in shape) in the CBA, led the Clippers with 17 points. Lamond Murray scored a dozen and sat down early.

"Everyone in there should be looking at this as a golden opportunity," Clippers coach Chris Ford said. "Nesby, he's busting his tail. If there's one positive out there, it's Tyrone Nesby, a guy who didn't have a guaranteed contract coming into camp."

The Clippers have won only once (and lost 22 times) in five weeks shy of a year. They lost 10 straight before winning the final game of the season last spring.

"I like Chris, and I think he's a good coach," said the NBA's all-time winningest coach, Atlanta's Lenny Wilkens. "It's tough, when you have injuries, and you have key people out."

And there's no telling when it will end. Saturday, the club put Olowokandi ((9.7 points, 7.8 rebounds) on the injured list with a sprained left ankle, suffered late in Friday's loss to the Lakers. By rule, he'll be out for five games at least.

Taylor, their leading scorer (16.8), didn't suit up Saturday and is day-to-day after spraining his right knee Thursday.

"We hope to have him back the next game," Ford said.

In other moves Saturday, the Clippers activated rookie forward Brian Skinner and backup center Stojko Vrankovic. To make room, veteran guard Pooh Richardson went on the injured list.

The Clippers were down 25-14 in the opening quarter, 41-28 in the second and 76-47 in the third.

This was not enough of a lead, however, for Atlanta's Ed Gray to get a great deal of floor time.

When Steve Smith strained a knee, which has shelved him for 7-10 days, it created a great opportunity for Gray, who got his first start against Chicago on Monday.

Gray, of Riverside North High and California, took six shots and missed them all.

The next night, in Dallas, Gray started again, hit 2 of 9 shots, disappeared after 15 minutes and never returned.

Thursday, in Houston, he never got off the bench.

And Saturday he played four minutes early, missed each of three shots, then got six minutes at the end, missing twice.

Document RVSD000020101022dv2s02q5g




 Councilman says city dollars unlikely for non-profits 

207 words
26 February 1999
00:35
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 1999.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.

 HONOLULU (AP) - Non-profit organizations are being given an early warning by the City Council to tighten their belts. 

 John Henry Felix is advising non-profit agencies it is unlikely the council will fund any requests for financial assistance in the coming fiscal year. 

 Felix, chairman of the council's budget and public works committee, said Thursday the city's projected budget shortfall, the possibility of a property tax increase and the reduction in the city's share of the hotel room tax are the reasons for his stance. 

 He said, while acknowledging worthy organizations, the budget crunch makes it impossible to justify providing grants-in-aid to non-city organizations. 

 "With the budget crunch the city faces this year, I feel it will be impossible to justify providing grants-in-aid to non-city organizations, regardless of the good work they do and even the economic benefits they may provide the city," he said. 

 "The primary responsibility of city government is to ensure the health and safety of the public and we will certainly have our hands full this year budgeting scarce dollars for that." 

 Last year, the council provided over $500,000 to non-profit organizations. 

Urgent

Document aprs000020010829dv2q01ie3




On the record International
 BUSINESS 
 MALAYSIA SAYS GOOD TIMES ARE BACK FOR THE ECONOMY 

967 words
26 February 1999
Orlando Sentinel
ORSE
METRO
B5
English
Copyright (c) 1999 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved.

 KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia - The good times are back - or so the Malaysian government says. Shopping malls were crammed with people jostling to buy merchandise, and more people are buying houses and cars.  As 1999 began, developers sold homes worth a total of $1 billion, thawing the real estate market, which had been frozen for more than a year. The benchmark stock index hit a nine-month high in January. The national car maker, Proton, boasted it outstripped records by selling 10,176 cars in December, the highest ever for one month. They were all surprising signs for this Southeast Asian nation, which recently slipped into its worst recession in a decade. The country is forecasting growth of at least 1percent this year. 

 National 

 KMART PLANS TO PURCHASE 11 CLOSING CALDOR STORES 

 NORWALK, Conn. - Kmart Corp. will buy 11 stores for $75 million from Caldor Corp., which is selling all of its 145 stores as it goes out of business for good. The deal, announced Thursday, includes stores in Connecticut, Massachusetts, New York, New Jersey and Delaware and is subject to a bankruptcy court approval expected within 60 days, Kmart spokesman Robert Burton said. Last month, Caldor announced that it would close its doors as the discount retailer struggled to revive its ailing company. More than 20,000 Caldor employees will lose their jobs. 

 READER'S DIGEST TO PUT ITS NAME ON CREDIT CARDS 

 NEW YORK - Reader's Digest Association Inc. plans to put its name on credit cards and insurance policies as part of a push to expand further beyond its flagship magazine. Chief Executive Officer Thomas Ryder told analysts Thursday the company wants to launch a range of nonpublishing products - focusing first on financial services and health - as it continues efforts to revive its profits. Ryder has been overhauling the company since taking over in April, slashing costs and seeking ways to attract younger customers. 

 2 KEY DEVELOPERS LEAVE SATURN DIVISION OF GM 

 DETROIT - Two key players who helped develop General Motors Corp.'s Saturn division into an import-fighting domestic automaker with cooperative labor relations left their positions during the past two days, officials said Thursday. Joseph Kennedy - Saturn's vice president of sales who was a core member of the original 40-person start-up team - resigned to join the Internet-based E-Loan. Separately, United Auto Workers Local 1853 members voted on Wednesday to replace Michael Bennett - the bargaining chairman at Saturn's Spring Hill, Tenn., plant since the mid-1980s - with Robert Williams, who was vice president, a UAW official said. 

 Earnings 

 GAP INC. 

 SAN FRANCISCO - Gap Inc., the No.3 U.S. clothing chain, said fourth-quarter profit rose 46 percent, as demand for khaki pants and sweaters at its Old Navy stores helped the retailer. Profit rose to $313.9 million, or 53 cents a share, from $215.6 million, or 36 cents a share, a year earlier. Gap, which also operates the Banana Republic and GapKids chains, beat by 3 cents a share the average estimate of analysts. Sales jump to $3.03 billion from $2.17 billion in the year- earlier period. Sales at stores open at least a year rose 17 percent in the quarter, led by a gain of more than 30 percent at Old Navy. For the year, profit was $824.54 million, or $1.37 a share, up from $533.90 million, or 87 cents a share, in 1998. Annual sales were $9.05 billion, up from $6.51 billion. Gap shares lost 13 cents to $62.88 Thursday. 

 VIACOM 

 NEW YORK - Viacom Inc., the world's No.4 media company, had a larger-than-expected fourth-quarter profit, buoyed by increased revenue at MTV Networks, hit films such as The Rugrats Movie and higher Blockbuster video sales. Viacom, which also said it would split its stock 2-for-1, had profit from continuing operations of $90 million, or 30 cents a share, compared with $574.9 million, or $1.54 a share, in the year-ago period. It was expected to earn 13 cents a share. Revenue rose 15 percent to $3.34 billion from $2.91 billion. 

 J.C. PENNEY 

 PLANO, Texas - J.C. Penney Co. Inc., the nation's fourth-larg- est retailer, Thursday posted a fourth-quarter profit that exceeded Wall Street estimates despite a 4 percent dip in sales. The retailer reported a profit of $207 million, or 77 cents a share, up from $201 million, or 76 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue slipped to $9.3 billion from $9.7 billion. For the year, profit including charges was $594 million, or $2.19 a share, from $566 million, or $2.10 a share a year earlier. Excluding charges, profit fell to $2.14 a share from $2.96 a share a year earlier. Revenue rose to $30.68 billion from $30.55 billion. 

 DAIMLERCHRYSLER 

 STUTTGART, Germany - DaimlerChrysler, Europe's largest industrial company, said 1998 profit rose a less-than-expected 29 percent as sales of Mercedes-Benz and Chrysler cars as well as Airbus planes climbed. Profit at the world's fifth-biggest car maker rose to $5.73 billion. DaimlerChrysler shares fell 5 percent in Frankfurt  and New York on the earnings, the first since Daimler-Benz AG acquired Chrysler Corp. for $36 billion in November. While DaimlerChrysler benefited from record sales last year in the United States and Europe, analysts are expecting car sales to slow following Volkswagen AG's warning Monday that profit growth would be difficult this year. Analysts were expecting profit to rise 39.1 percent. DaimlerChrysler's U.S. shares closed down $5.13 to $95.81. 

From AP, Reuters, Bloomberg News Service and staff reports.

Document orse000020010829dv2q009y8




 DaimlerChrysler reports strong earnings for 1998, despite high merger costs 

482 words
25 February 1999
20:32
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 1999.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.

 STUTTGART, Germany (AP) - DaimlerChrysler AG reported higher-than expected merger costs Thursday, but analysts were encouraged by a 38 percent increase in the German-American automaker's operating profit for 1998. 

 Merger costs of $804 million lowered earnings to $5.6 billion, down 26 percent from the combined 1997 earnings of about $7.6 billion, including unusual items, for the former Chrysler Corp. and Daimler-Benz AG. Earnings per share were $6.05, which analyst Andrew Blair-Smith of Commerzbank in Frankfurt said were in line with expectations. 

 Pretax operating earnings for the year were up to $10.1 billion from $7.31 billion in 1997. Excluding merger costs and non-recurring items, net earnings totaled $6.12 billion, up 29 percent from $4.76 billion in the earlier year. 

 "We are surprised with the size of the merger cost that was booked," said analyst Tom Aney of HypoVereinsbank in Munich. "But even when taking that effect into account, the operating earnings situation remains strong." 

 DaimlerChrysler shares closed down 5 percent in Frankfurt trading, while the overall market index was off 2.8 percent. Analysts attributed the slide mainly to profit-taking, since the stock had outperformed the market recently while rival German automakers Volkswagen AG and BMW AG had slipped. 

 "Fundamentally, the company is doing very well," said Rolla Kautz, an analyst with BHF Bank in Frankfurt. "It's definitely a good start. There's nothing to worry about." 

 London-based analysts at Merrill Lynch raised their recommendation on DaimlerChrysler stock to "long-term accumulate" from "neutral" this week, forecasting DaimlerChrysler's net earnings would increase this year from strong North American sales. 

 DaimlerChrysler said about 81,000 U.S. employees will receive profit-sharing payments averaging $7,400, up 61 percent from the average payment for 1997 but below 1994's record of $8,000. More than 19,000 management and administrative employees will be eligible for the checks. 

 In Germany, about 140,000 DaimlerChrysler employees will receive profit-sharing payments totaling $1,180. 

 Sales totaled $154.6 billion last year, up 12 percent from $137.9 billion in 1997. The company did not break down results among divisions, but said more details would be available at its annual financial news conference March 31. 

 The automaker's supervisory board will propose a dividend of $2.76 a share at its March 30 meeting. 

 DaimlerChrysler also declined to issue an earnings outlook for 1999, surprising some analysts. After Volkswagen took investors off-guard late Tuesday by issuing a 1999 profit warning, traders had expected DaimlerChrysler to present an upbeat forecast. 

 The 1998 figures were calculated on a dollar/mark exchange rate of 1.667, the noon buying rate on Dec. 31, as required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The average exchange rate in 1998 was 1.7597. 

Urgent

Document aprs000020010829dv2p01hnx




 FOCUS ON FILINGS: Gadzooks Execs Like Stock's Fit >GADZ 

 By Paul Ciampoli 
1,354 words
22 February 1999
19:00
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 A Dow Jones Newswires Column 

 WASHINGTON (Dow Jones)--Is now a good time for investors to consider adding shares of Gadzooks Inc. (GADZ) to their spring stock collection while the stock continues to trade close to its 52-week low of $5.50? 

 That is a question that takes on all the more significance for bargain-hunting Wall Streeters given the fact that key executives at the Dallas teen retailer have been scooping up shares of the company over the past several months faster than the latest hot fashion for the Dawson's Creek crowd flies off the racks. 

 As reported, Gadzooks Chairman, Chief Executive and President Gerald Szczepanski purchased 100,000 shares of the company's common stock from Jan. 11 through Jan. 12 at a price range of $7.33 to $7.38 a share, raising his overall ownership in Gadzooks to 172,000 shares. The CEO bought his shares while they remained well off their 52-week high of $29.88. 

 Last month's insider buying continues a fairly steady bout of such activity seen at Gadzooks since the end of last summer. From August through December, a total of six insiders at the company picked up a combined 161,200 Gadzooks shares at prices ranging from $6.93 to $11.44 each. Officials at Gadzooks couldn't be reached for comment on the insider buying activity. 

 Investors may be tempted to read the insider buying at Gadzooks as a clear sign that the stock has nowhere to go but up. After all, Wall Streeters are likely to reason, corporate executives can have any number of motivations behind parting with shares of their firms, but they traditionally are motivated by only one thing when it comes to buying shares: they expect to reap profits on their investments at some point. 

 Of course, it is always worth remembering that most insiders aren't very good at timing equity markets. While corporate decision makers may feel more comfortable in buying shares of their firms given their institutional knowledge, they are no better than the average market player at forecasting the often-times merciless whims of financial markets. 


                Shares Have Yet To Recover



Gadzooks is a mall-based specialty retailer of casual apparel and
related accessories for young men and women, primarily between the ages
of 13 and 19. Company products include woven and knit tops, jeans,
shorts, junior dresses, swimwear and T-shirts. In addition, Gadzooks
stores offer shoes, boots, sunglasses, watches and costume jewelry.



Shares of Gadzooks have yet to fully recover from the battering they
took last summer after the company said its fiscal-second-quarter profit
would be less than half of what analysts had been expecting. The stock
tumbled from a closing price of 18 3/4 on July 22, the day it issued the
warning to Wall Street, to 11 1/4 the following day.



Since that time, investors haven't been given many reasons to pick up
shares of Gadzooks. In November, the retailer reported a loss of 8 cents
a share for its fiscal third quarter ended Oct. 31, 1998, compared with
net income of 21 cents a share in the year-ago period.



A First Call Corp. consensus of analysts' estimates projected Gadzooks
would incur a net loss of 2 cents a share for its most recent third
quarter. The company attributed results in the latest quarter to slow
sales growth, lower merchandise gross margins and higher store level and
corporate expenses as a percent of sales. Adding to the misery: Gadzooks
disclosed that same-store sales fell 6.9% in its most recent fiscal
third quarter.



Earlier this month, the company revealed more bad news on the
same-store sales front. Gadzooks said that January same-store sales fell
6.5%, while same-store sales for fiscal year 1998 were down 5.6%. At the
same time, the retailer said that total sales for the four weeks ended
Jan. 30 rose 13.3% to $11.4 million, from $10 million a year ago. For
the year, total sales rose 21.3% to $208.2 million, from $171.6 million
a year ago.



Meanwhile, the analyst crowd seems more than a bit uncertain as to
where Gadzooks is headed over the next few years. A First Call survey of
nine analysts pegs the company earning a meager 12 cents a share in
1999, but sees Gadzooks rebounding nicely the following year and earning
47 cents a share in 2000. And of the eight analysts surveyed by Zacks
Investment Research, not one was willing to go beyond a neutral rating
on the stock as of Feb. 13.



While investors may find themselves tempted to try on shares of
Gadzooks while they remain at dirt cheap price levels, market players
shouldn't forget the extremely fickle fashion whims of the teen set.
What may be the hot seller among the mall rats one month, often turns
out to be the fashion equivalent of the Model T the next. Indeed, the
company notes in its most recent annual report filed at the Securities
and Exchange Commission that its failure to anticipate or react
appropriately to changes in styles or trends could lead to, among other
things, excess inventories and higher markdowns.



         Company Faces Crowded Field Of Competitors



Gadzooks also faces a crowded field of competitors vying for all those
teen dollars. The company goes head-to-head with traditional department
stores, local specialty stores in certain markets and, to a lesser
extent, with mass merchandisers. Gadzooks also competes with such
national specialty chains such as Gap Inc. (GPS) and certain divisions
of The Limited Inc. (LTD), as well as numerous other teen retailers
including Wet Seal Inc. (WTLSA), Buckle Inc. (BKE) and Hot Topic Inc.
(HOTT).



The weakness seen in shares of Gadzooks raises the possibility of the
company being put into play as a potential acquisition target by another
retailer. As widely reported, Claire's Stores Inc. (CLE) in September of
last year disclosed ownership of an 11.8% stake in Gadzooks and
expressed an interest in purchasing Gadzooks, although Claire's chief
executive at the same time said that his company had no intention of
launching a hostile bid.



Gadzooks said that it wasn't interested in pursuing a business
combination with Claire's or any other firm. Gadzooks announced in
September that it had adopted a poison-pill shareholder rights plan,
although the company said that the plan was being prepared before
Claire's investment banker first made queries with the company.



At a recent price of 8 1/4, shares of Gadzooks are trading below the
$8.63 to $12 price range Claire's paid for its 1,042,000 shares of the
company purchased from late July through early September. For its part,
Claire's doesn't appear to have given up on the idea of pursuing a
combination with Gadzooks. Rowland Schaefer, Claire's chairman and chief
executive, recently told Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: "We would
still like to talk to them because we feel Mr. Rags would be a
complement to Gadzooks." The Mr. Rags apparel chain offers stores that
specialize in selling teen unisex clothing and accessories.



What would compel insiders at Gadzooks to buy shares of the company,
other than the fact that they continue to be priced at discount levels?
For one, the company sees the burgeoning teen population as an
increasing source of purchasing power in the U.S. In its annual report,
Gadzooks cites U.S. Census Bureau projections that the population of
about 25 million teenagers in the U.S. last year will increase to about
31 million by 2010.



In addition, the retailer has managed to move the ball forward on both
the top-line and bottom-line fronts. Earnings have grown from $1.94
million in 1995 to $8.3 million in 1998, while revenues have advanced
from $56.5 million in 1995 to $171.6 million last year.



(MORE) DOW JONES NEWS  02-22-99



02:00 PM


Document dj00000020010827dv2m04qfv




 The bright and dark sides of the US market. 

 By John Calverley. 
891 words
19 February 1999
Business Times Singapore
STBT
English
(c) 1999 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

 IN December 1996 the head of the US Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, commented that the US stock market was suffering from "irrational exuberance". Two years later the broad S&P 500 index is up 65 per cent. Technology stocks are doing even better, with the Nasdaq index, for example, up 150 per cent. 

 Mr Greenspan is still warning investors, most recently commenting about unrealistic expectations for profit growth, but it seems the market is not listening. 

 What's driving the market is large amounts of money and optimism. The money is coming from the ageing US population, who cannot rely on much in the way of government pensions, or any equivalent of a Central Provident Fund account. So they are turning to private pension schemes and mutual funds. 

 The optimism comes from the spectacular performance of the US economy and US companies in recent years. While Asia is in recession and the European economic upswing continues to sputter, the US has just turned in a record eighth year of economic expansion, with virtually no sign of inflation. 

 Perhaps even more impressive is the growth of corporate profits. Although 1998 profits were flat overall, they were still some 30 per cent above the 1994 level. US firms have focused on efficient use of capital, cutting costs, driving hard bargains with suppliers and motivating staff with profit sharing and option schemes. 

 Although profits have risen a lot, the market is up a great deal more. In other words the ratio of prices to earnings has surged from about 16 at end-1996 to 32 now. This is the highest ever in the US and has got many people worried. Is the outlook really that good? 

 Pessimists argue profit growth and valuations have been boosted by temporary factors. One is the fall in interest rates in the 1990s which has cut financing costs. Another is the sluggish rise in US wage growth, apparently due to international competition. Finally, the surge in profits, particularly in '95-'96, was due to a sharp rise in capacity use in industries. 

 All these factors are likely to prove temporary, which means that profit growth in the next few years could be closer to the growth rate of the US economy, about 4-5 per cent a year (including inflation). Forecasts for 1998 are still well above this level, particularly those of "bottom up" analysts, who are anticipating double-digit growth. However, over the long-term they have over-estimated profit growth by 7.2 per cent on average and rarely foresee periods of weak profits. 

 Looking at valuations the pessimists argue that the market has gone too far. For example, some enthusiasts argue that recessions have been abolished. This view was sometimes expressed about the Asian tigers in the early and mid-1990s! 

 Certainly, the US has managed to avoid an acceleration in inflation so far. But low inflation is partly due to economic weakness elsewhere in the world and the strength of the US dollar. It may not last and then the Federal Reserve Board would raise interest rates again, slowing the economy and hurting the market. There is also a longer term danger of an Asian type crisis of over-investment. US investment has been growing at over 10 per cent per annum in the 1990s, much faster than in the 1980s. So what should investors do? The first point to note is that pessimists have been warning of over-valuation for two years or more and investors would have missed a 65 per cent rise in their investments if they had exited the market. Historical experience shows that it is very hard to accurately time a market to buy at the bottom, sell at the top. It's best to buy and hold for the long-term. The second point is that the money is likely to keep flowing. The sharp fall in the market late last summer was recovered in a few weeks at end-1998 as the "buy on a dip" view was vindicated. The US baby boomer generation is still in its peak savings period and increasingly convinced of long-term stock investments. 

 The final point is that the US economy still looks on track for another good year in 1999 and profits probably will pick up, at least slightly. Some slowdown in economic growth is desirable, to avoid inflationary pressures, so the Latin American crisis should be positive for the US. However, investors should not forget that investment in stocks involves risk. If the US economy does fall into recession, past experience suggests that the stock market could sell off by 20-30 per cent or, given today's valuations, even more. Longer term, the market will come back up and provide good returns. But investors need to be sure that they can live through such volatility. Investors should also diversify. US government bonds will do well if the US falls into recession. Other stock markets, in Europe and Asia, would suffer some contagion effects, but should de-couple over time. This is especially true of Asian where, over the long term, markets should continue their recent recovery after the huge falls of the last two years. The writer is chief economist and strategist at American Express Bank. 

Document stbt000020010911dv2j001iv




 JD Edwards Sees Premisys Buy Enhancing Supply-Chain Software 

434 words
18 February 1999
13:31
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   This story originally appeared Wednesday.
     By Maria V. Georgianis


 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--J.D. Edwards & Co. (JDEC) is enhancing its supply-chain software for manufacturers with its acquisition of The Premisys Corp., said J.D. Edwards vice president William Goodison. 

 As reported earlier, J.D. Edwards Wednesday said it planned to acquire privately-held Premisys of Chicago for $12 million in cash and stock. The acquisition is J.D. Edwards' first since going public in September 1997 and is expected to close in early March. 

 J.D. Edwards' stock, which closed Wednesday at 14 15/16, is below its initial stock offering price of 23. The stock last Friday fell 20% when the company said it expected to report below-expectation first quarter fiscal 2000 earnings. 

 The Denver-based company is slated to report its first quarter results Feb. 23 after the market's close. 

 Until its profit warning, J.D. Edwards had seemed immune from the sales slowdown that other competitors such as SAP AG (SAP), Baan Co. (BAANF) and PeopleSoft Inc. (PSFT), had been noticing. J.D. Edwards sells to smaller companies than its rivals and this was viewed as an advantage. 

 J.D. Edwards' acquisition of Premisys isn't a near-term significant boost to its revenue growth. Premisys reported 1998 revenue of $4 million, compared to J.D. Edwards' fiscal 1998 revenue of $934 million. 

 The attraction of Premisys is its CustomWorks software, said Goodison, vice president of sales and marketing for J.D. Edwards' industrial vertical group. 

 Over the next 60 to 90 days, Goodison said he anticipates that J.D. Edwards will have signed about half a dozen new customers that will use CustomWorks in combination with other J.D. Edwards software. 

 CustomWorks allows salespeople to graphically design products to fit customers' specifications and use this information to figure out product cost and availability. The software has links to other software packages, including J.D. Edwards' Scorex supply-chain management software. 

 Supply chain software allows suppliers and customers to more efficiently plan product manufacturing and distribution. 

 Goodison said CustomWorks will be targeted to J.D. Edwards' industrial customers, including businesses in the automotive, electronics and industrial fabrication areas. J.D. Edwards industrial vertical comprised between 40% to 50% of its fiscal 1998 revenue. 


J.D. Edwards and Premisys had no customer overlap, Goodison said,
adding that his company was one of several bidding on Premisys.
   - Maria V. Georgianis; 201-938-5244;
maria.georgianis@cor.dowjones.com



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  02-18-99



08:31 AM


Document dj00000020010827dv2i04lz8




European Markets
 Investors Weigh European Stocks --- Sentiment Remains Cautious but Wary 

 By Silvia Ascarelli 
Staff Reporter
1,109 words
15 February 1999
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
11
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 LONDON -- Andrew Couch hasn't paid much attention to Bill Clinton's sex life since early this year, when he decided there was little chance the U.S. president would be removed from office. 

 "It's a nonissue," said the global equity strategist for Guinness Flight Hambro Asset Management just before the U.S. Senate voted not to convict the president on two charges of perjury and obstruction of justice. 

 What's really on the mind of Mr. Couch and other investors contemplating European share purchases are more mundane issues like corporate earnings, the possible benefits of switching into cyclical shares and the risk that interest rates could rise, thereby taking the wind out of equity markets. On top of that is the potential for more trouble in emerging markets; Ecuador on Friday said it was allowing its currency, the sucre, to float. 

 "As has been true for a long time, investors are trying to weigh up whether the strong domestic fundamentals we see in Western markets are going to be outweighed by deflationary pressures from Asia and turmoil from other parts of the world feeding through to corporate earnings," says Oliver Kamm, head of strategic research at Commerzbank Global Equities. "There is a lot of uncertainty on that point." 

 European share markets ended generally higher Friday, although they were down for the week. The Dow Jones Stoxx Index of 653 European companies rose 2.64 points to 283.75. 

 But European markets may well begin the week lower after a drop in the Dow Jones Industrial Average Friday. U.S. investors paid little heed to the roll-call vote over Mr. Clinton's fate, which came in the middle of the New York session Friday. Dominating sentiment was a pair of analyst downgrades on Dell Computer Corp. The industrial average ended down 88.57 points at 9274.89. U.S. equity markets will be closed today for the Presidents Day holiday. 

 Sentiment toward European markets remains generally positive, albeit wary. Mr. Couch, for one, fears a correction. Rallies in both the U.S. and Europe are too narrowly based; more stocks are falling than rising, he says. And the odds that U.S. bond yields could rise enough to prompt a stock-market correction have risen to about 30%, from virtually zero a year ago, he says. 

 But David Kiddie, head of pan-European equities at Hill Samuel Asset Management in London, says he's betting that European interest rates will remain low, if not fall further. That, combined with the benefits of corporate restructurings, could push European equity markets up between 8% and 10% this year. 

 Analysts and investors are most deeply divided over whether it's time for cyclical shares to come out of the doghouse. They've been out of favor ever since Asia's economic crisis sent commodity prices tumbling. But in recent weeks, some cyclical shares have been among the market stars. The Dow Jones Stoxx Basic Resources Index has climbed 10% so far this year, making it the third-best-performing sector behind telecommunications and media. And the media sector is partially driven by cyclical factors like advertising, says Teun Draaisma, a member of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter's European equity strategy team. Advertising group WPP Group PLC, a member of the Stoxx Index, has shot up nearly 25% this year. 

 Morgan Stanley has been arguing for the past month that cyclical shares will rally for the next three to six months. "We still think that's very much true," says Mr. Draaisma. The firm points to signs that business confidence is bottoming out and its own forecast of lower interest rates. The European Central Bank will drop its key interest rate to 2.25% by year end from the current 3%, and the Bank of England should lower rates to 5% from 5.5% during the same time, says Mr. Draaisma. 

 Within the sector, Morgan Stanley is pushing basic materials, such as paper, metals and chemicals, as well as building and construction shares, which also benefit from buoyant consumer confidence. Because many of these plays are small and relatively illiquid, the firm suggests the oil sector as a proxy. 

 Even disappointing results from forestry-products giant StoraEnso Corp. last week haven't dimmed Morgan Stanley's confidence. Mr. Draaisma blamed the profit warning on problems with the Finnish-Swedish firm's packaging division. 

 "Relative valuations of the cyclical sector are at a 20-year low compared to the market," he says. "So a lot of the bad news is in the price. And we think there's a lot of good news coming." 

 Credit Suisse First Boston is recommending consumer cyclical shares, citing rising consumer confidence. Its recommended list includes companies like U.K. retailer Kingfisher PLC and Carpetright PLC, the U.K.'s largest specialist carpet retailer, French temporary-employment company Adecco Travail Temporaire and Germany's Preussag AG, which has transformed itself into a tourism company from a steel and mining conglomerate. 

 But other analysts range from lukewarm to downright skeptical. Gary Dugan, European equity strategist at J.P. Morgan, recommends buying cyclicals only in small doses. He upped his overweight position in building and construction stocks last week and moved to a neutral position on the steel sector from underweight. But he cautions that global growth will remain subpar for the next two years. As a result, there's little reason to expect that industrial prices, already under pressure, can recover. 

 Asia's economies may have bottomed out, says George Hodgson, European equity strategist with ABN Amro. But that doesn't mean they're headed for a Western-style recovery that would pull cyclical shares up alongside them. The region's problems weren't caused by the usual battle to tame inflation by raising interest rates. 

 "We still sense there are deep-seated issues in the corporate-earnings trend," he says. 

 As the European earnings season swings into high gear, however, there's little sense of that. Mr. Kiddie and others are impressed with what they've heard so far. On balance, there have been more positive surprises, says Mr. Draaisma, the Morgan Stanley strategist. The firm estimates that pan-European earnings rose 5.5% last year, compared with the consensus view of 3.5%, and expects them to rise another 5.5% this year. "If there are risks, they are clearly on the upside," he adds, pointing to the unexpectedly strong U.S. economy and expectations that European growth will begin to pick up in the second half of the year. 

Document wsje000020010830dv2f002rf


EDITORIAL
EDITORIALS

The Press-Enterprise   
1,044 words
15 February 1999
Riverside Press-Enterprise
RVSD
ALL ZONES
A10
English
Copyright 1999 The Press-Enterprise. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank, Inc.   

Medicare regaining its health

It's enough to warm the hearts of Reaganites. "Waste, fraud and abuse" in a federal program can be dramatically cut - enough, perhaps, to save it from hard times or worse.

Responding to congressional and presidential demands for better performance, the Department of Health and Human Services has managed in just two years to cut almost 50 percent of its Medicare losses due to fraud, overpayment and administrative error.

In 1996, the department's independent inspector general estimated that a little more than $23 billion was lost in those categories. In 1997, after the beginning of a stepped-up auditing program, the loss was cut to about $20 billion. And last year, the loss was dropped to just $12.6 billion.

OK, so "just" and "$12.6 billion" don't go well together, even in the federal lexicon. Nonetheless, reducing the rates of waste from about 14 percent of expenditures in 1996 to 7 percent in 1998 is an astounding accomplishment. If the 14 percent rate had continued through 1998, about $24.6 billion would have been lost.

What is also astounding is why so many unjustified claims were tolerated for so long. Yes, Medicare processes about 800 million claims a year and aims to do the work quickly. So, there's a lot of hasty paperwork to get lost in. But the fact that so much waste has been cut in so brief a period of time makes one wonder if the task was all that difficult to begin with. Over the years, billions and billions of dollars must have been needlessly lost, adding to the woes of this important program.

Operation Restore Trust, as the auditing program is known, has been a success, but it will not be successful until it cuts that $12.6 billion figure down to as close to zero as possible and can say Medicare, which will have to do still more when baby boomers retire, is no longer threatened by "waste, fraud and abuse." === Tony Miller's crusade

Tony Miller is a former acting California secretary of state and co-author of the politically reform-directed Prop. 208. His devotion to election law, and especially to limiting the influence of money on the making of public policy, is unquestioned.

But having failed to convince voters to elect him secretary of state in 1994 and lieutenant governor last year, Tony Miller has deputized himself. He has announced in so many words that he intends to enforce the law covering campaign contributions and, to a great measure, has done just that. However, while his actions are no doubt an extension of his public service, the consequences may be far different than what he has in mind.

Mr. Miller has seized upon an obscure section of the Political Reform Act of 1974 that allows private citizens to assume enforcement functions normally reserved for the Fair Political Practices Commission. Under that provision, a "private attorney general" may file complaints of violations of the reform act with the commission's staff. If the staff fails to act within 40 days, the private attorney may then file a lawsuit. Any settlement obtained is split between the private attorney and the commission.

More than 200 times, Tony Miller has filed complaints, with about half of them leading to FPPC actions or to lawsuits. Over the last year, the FPPC has seen a notable increase in requests for enforcement actions and almost all of the increase is the result of Mr. Miller's actions.

He has netted Duane Roberts, owner of Riverside's Mission Inn, and legendary rocker Bruce Springsteen, and he's on the trail of famed attorney Johnnie Cochran. Most violations are not considered major, although he has made a more serious accusation of money laundering against Governor Wilson's campaign.

Mr. Miller believes he is filling in for an FPPC enforcement staff that has been greatly reduced by budget cuts. But Chip Nielsen, a noted Sacramento attorney specializing in the political reform act, warns that Mr. Miller's success could lead to others doing the same.

In this case, the warning should be viewed as prescience; it's easy to see enforcement of the political reform act being turned over to, or rather seized by, any number of so-called "private attorneys" representing individuals, groups, parties, non-profit corporations or special interests. To be sure, they won't have motives as pure as Mr. Miller's. The end result could be no independent enforcement by a staff monopolized by the complaints and the politicalization of the reform act.

The FPPC can head that off by looking at changing the law to permit a longer period of time to assess the complaint and by preparing appeals to the governor and the Legislature for restored funding for its enforcement division. === Mr. Holbrooke's time has come

Rarely has a diplomatic nominee come to the Senate with better credentials than Richard Holbrooke. He has been in and out of the State Department for more than 35 years. He has been ambassador to Germany and is largely credited with negotiating the 1995 Dayton Peace Accords, which ended the fighting in Bosnia. Now, President Clinton wants him to be ambassador to the United Nations - in fact, he has wanted him for the post for eight months.

The nomination has been held up while anonymous charges about Mr. Holbrooke having violated ethics law during his most recent hiatus from the State Department were investigated. During that time, he was alleged to have asked James Laney, the U.S. ambassador to South Korea, to arrange a meeting with President Kim Young-sam, on behalf of his new employer, Credit Suisse First Boston.

Former administration officials are not supposed to have contact with administration officials for a year after leaving their posts. However, Mr. Holbrooke's case is complicated by the fact that he was an unpaid State Department consultant at the time and was briefing world leaders about Bosnia.

In any case, Mr. Holbrooke has reached a settlement in the matter, having paid $5,000 without admitting wrongdoing. The principle of separating private and public business has been maintained. Now it's time to send him to the United Nations.

Document RVSD000020101022dv2f02p5c




 Heard on the Street: Robertson's Tiger Hedge Fund Loses Momentum 

 By Mitchell Pacelle, Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 
814 words
12 February 1999
05:01
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 The "big mo" is mowing down Julian Robertson, one of the nation's most prominent hedge-fund managers. 

 Mr. Robertson's Tiger Management was among a number of high-profile hedge funds battered in the fall by a surprise rebound in the yen against the dollar, which helped to push Tiger's overall portfolio down 3.9% for the year. 

 Now, January's "momentum" market in U.S. stocks has left his $14 billion fund group down $670 million, or 4.8%, one month into what he hoped would be a rebound year. By comparison, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 4.2% in January. 

 "We were bitterly disappointed by this first month's results, since we have been working hard to get off to a good start in 1999," Mr. Robertson wrote investors early this month. The culprit: "We are in a momentum market, one which pays little attention to value," he said. 

 Join the crowd. "Value" investors -- those searching for cheap stocks whose true values other investors don't recognize -- have been pummeled amid the market's current euphoria. The big money recently has been made by momentum investors, who care less about value and price than the likelihood that a hot stock will continue to rise. 

 Just look at how growth-stock indexes outpaced value indexes in January. The Russell 1000's growth subindex jumped 5.9%, compared with a 0.8% gain for the Russell 1000's value subindex. "This hasn't been an environment in which value means much," says Nola Kulig, a portfolio manager for Frank Russell & Co. 

 Of course, nobody is counting out Mr. Robertson. Tiger has bounced back quickly from several other dry spells. At midyear 1997, the S&P 500 was up 20.6% and Tiger had barely made a nickel. But the fund finished the year up more than 70% (56% after fees), trouncing the S&P 500's 33.4% gain. 

 And Tiger isn't the only global hedge fund to suffer in January. For instance, George Soros's $8.3 billion Quantum Fund sank 6.5% in the month, though it has regained about half of those losses in February to date. (Tiger is flat so far this month.) But Tiger lagged behind the average gain of 2% for hedge funds in January, according to Hennessee Hedge Fund Advisory Group. 

 Meanwhile, last year's poor performance had already taken a toll at Mr. Robertson's fund. Assets under management by Mr. Robertson fell to $14 billion, after peaking at more than $20 billion in the middle of 1998, stemming mostly from Tiger's falling investment values. Tiger's investors typically are loyal because of Mr. Robertson's solid long-term track record. 

 The monthly portfolio snapshot sent to Tiger investors last week reveals significant losses from the fund's "short" positions in U.S. stocks -- bets that the shares will decline in value. U.S. shorts dragged Tiger's asset values down 4.2% in January. Tiger neither identifies its shorts nor discusses them with investors, but it has been actively shorting technology stocks, says one person familiar with Tiger's strategy. 

 After Internet stocks briefly plunged several weeks ago, Tiger closed out its short position in one Internet stock by buying the shares, according to this person. Through a spokesman, Mr. Robertson declined to comment on Tiger's performance or investments. 

 In his letter, Mr. Robertson focused on several stock positions he classified as "value situations," starting with Tiger's largest holding, US Airways. After rising to a high of $64 on Jan. 8, US Airways fell 28.9% by Jan. 28, ending the month down 4.3% at $49.75, after missing fourth-quarter earnings estimates by two cents a share. Since then, it has fallen an additional 8.9% to $45.3125. Tiger held 18.2 million shares as of Sept. 30. 

 Mr. Robertson's letter criticized analysts who "flashed the dread `profit-warning' sign and estimated down earnings for the year," and offered his own "light-at-the-end-of-the-tunnel" analysis. 

 Another "terrible laggard" cited by Mr. Robertson in recent months is Bowater, a newsprint manufacturer. Bowater shares fell 2.3% in January, and 5% more since then. Tiger owned 8.7 million shares as of Sept. 30. Mr. Robertson argued that a more "rational multiple" would vault the stock to about double its current price of $37.125. 

 "We are not smart enough to know when they will begin to perform, but we do know that they are value," Mr. Robertson concluded of US Airways and Bowater. "And we do know that value will win out eventually." 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020329dv2c01vb7




 Danish shares revive, Unidanmark dominates, outlook negative. 

248 words
11 February 1999
16:42
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

     COPENHAGEN, Feb 11 (Reuters) - Blue-chip shares closed a 

 little higher on Thursday in a thinnish market dominated by 

 second biggest banking group Unidanmark's 1998 result, with 

 dealers foreseeing fresh falls ahead of the weekend. 

     The top-20 KFX index closed 0.16 percent up at 211.84 in 

 medium turnover of 676 million crowns ($103 million), while the 

 KFX February future shed 1.25 points to 211.00. 

     "Banks nearly always fall after their results are released. 

 Unidanmark will in all likelihood drop more tomorrow, following 

 the expected downward trend to new year lows for the KFX index," 

 one dealer said. 

     Unidanmark ended seven crowns down at 545, after fluctuating 

 around 550 on delivering a better than expected 1998 result, 

 with core earnings which disappointed the market. 

     Insurer Tryg-Baltica closed 13 crowns up at 173, despite 

 Unidanmark denials of media reports of a possible merger between 

 the two financial concerns. 

  Rival Den Danske, its result due late February, shed five 

 crowns to 855. 

     Tele Danmark, hit by a recent wave of profit-taking, rallied 

 to finish two crowns up at 807, while bio-tech group Novo 

 Nordisk put on two crowns to 774. 

     Off the KFX index, troubled fashion house Carli Gry tumbled 

 15 crowns to 215 on the resignation of a managing director after 

 a recent profit warning. 

     Leading grain wholesaler KFK rose four crowns to 135 after a 

 drop in 1998 profits. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv2b04nca




 WORLD BONDS-Dollar bloc at risk from forex falls. 

 By Deepthi Wickremasinghe 
740 words
10 February 1999
16:19
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, Feb 10 (Reuters) - A better tone to commodity prices has led to a good run for the Canadian, Australian and New Zealand currencies, but unless there is a big rise in commodity prices interest in their bonds may start to peter out. 

 Analysts said on Wednesday they held a neutral stance on the countries' bonds relative to U.S. Treasuries, warning any fall in the currencies could lead to profit-taking. 

 "Now would be the time to take a more neutral position, given the currencies have performed so well," said Michael Derks, senior market strategist at Nomura International. 

 "Treasuries may go up or may go down but the (yield) spreads are not going to change a whole lot over the course of this year relative to where they are now." 

 The Canadian 10-year yield spread to Treasuries is at 16 basis points. The Australia/U.S. gap is at 34 b.p and the New Zealand/U.S. spread is at 71 b.p. 

 Renewed trouble in Brazil, which tends to fuel the flight to quality in bond markets, could further dampen appetite for peripheral bonds. 

 On Tuesday state governors of the Brazilian state of Minas Gerais said the state would not meet its Eurobond payments due on Wednesday. The Brazilian government has said it will honour the $108 million Eurobond payment, but bad feeling between the government and the state could threaten Brazil's fiscal retrenchment plans and reduce global investor confidence. 

 "In a situation where Brazil is a source of concern, these other dollar currencies would probably weaken against the U.S. unit. There would also be worries over commodity prices because a Brazilian crisis would cast a shadow over global growth prospects," said Stephen Lewis, chief economist at Monument Derivatives in London. 

 "If one were in these other markets and switched out of the U.S., one would want to hedge the foreign exchange exposure." 

 But analysts said some areas within dollar bloc peripheral bond markets were attractive. 

 Near term, the long end of the Canadian curve could receive a boost when the federal budget is delivered on February 16. 

 In the past, Finance Minister Paul Martin has often taken a prudent stance on the economy in the run up to the budget. 

 "He likes to give the market a pleasant surprise on these occasions by indicating that the economy is a lot stronger than he had previously been portraying it, and he may well do the same again," said Lewis, adding any boost to the long end should be seen as an opportunity to switch out of Canada into the U.S. 

 Ten-year Canadian bonds are currently yielding 5.053 percent. They have been trading in a broad range between 4.94 percent and 5.15 since mid-December. The equivalent U.S. T-note yields 4.875 percent, also just off its range high. 

 Ian Douglas, global bond strategist at Warburg Dillon Read in London, favoured playing the two-year spread between Canada and the U.S. Currently at 13 b.p., he saw the Canada/U.S. gap trading flat over the next month or so. 

 "It is clear that growth levels in Canada are significantly weaker than growth levels in the U.S. and we could easily see Canadian bonds trading down to or through U.S. bonds yield levels again," Douglas said. 

 Lewis said the short end of the New Zealand yield curve was likely to perform well after the Reserve Bank's decision earlier this week to adopt an offical cash rate to help in short-term interest rate management. 

 By comparison, he said the short end of the Australian market looked vulnerable, with talk of a possible rate cut on Friday partly built in to the market but rather optimistic. 

 "I would go along with those investors who at the moment favour switching out of the short end of Australia to go into the short end of New Zealand," said Lewis. 

 Nomura's Derks agreed an Australian rate cut was unlikely. 

 "The economy is moving along fairly well and there is no particular reason for them to be doing anything, particularly with the (U.S.) Fed very much on hold," he said. ((International Bonds +44 171 542 4041, Fax +44 171 542 5285, uk.governmentbonds.news@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv2a04slw




 Small-Cap Stocks Cut Losses As Nasdaq Turns Higher 

Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition Roundup
692 words
8 February 1999
20:29
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Small-capitalization stocks cut losses Monday as the Nasdaq Stock Market crossed back into positive territory, tracking the meandering course of technology shares. 

 The Russell 2000 Index, which tracks the direction of small stocks traded on both the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq Stock Market, fell 1.30 to 411.50 in late afternoon trading. The Nasdaq Composite Index, which measures the performance of large and small issues traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market, shook off earlier weakness to rise 22.20 to 2395.90. The Dow Jones Industrial Average languished in negative territory, off 26 to 9278. 

 Technology shares rose as the Nasdaq Computer Index recovered from a midday loss to rise 17.80 to 1290.20. The Philadelphia Stock Exchange Semiconductor Index, meanwhile, extended gains to rise 11.50 to 397.60. 

 Among other Nasdaq industry, two finance-related sectors diverged sharply. While insurance shares led gaining sectors with a rise of 29.40 to 1840, financial services, which dominates listings on the Russell 2000, led losing industry measures with a heavy loss of 42.50 to 2843.20. 

 Among small-capitalization stocks, with market capitalizations of $1.5 billion or less, Executive Risk surged 20 1/4 to 64 1/4 on the Big Board. Insurance major Chubb, Warren, N.J., announced a definitive agreement to purchase the Simsbury, Conn., provider of liability insurance to corporate directors and officers in a stock swap valued at around $800 million. 

 Micros-To-Mainframes, Valley Cottage, N.Y., jumped 2 23/32 to 9 3/32. The provider of computer network engineering, network management, and consulting services said it has opened two electronic commerce Web sites for viewing by its present clients. The Web sites are expected to be fully functional by March 1. 

 Ligand Pharmaceuticals gained 1 3/4 to 14 after its drug Ontak received limited federal approval Friday to be the first drug specifically cleared to treat a rare form of cancer. Ontak is for patients with recurring or advanced cutaneous t-cell lymphoma, a rare, slow-growing form of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Ligand, a San Diego, Calif., drug-development concern, must complete another study and then return to the Food and Drug Administration to ask for a full approval. The FDA gave its limited ap proval to the drug under its accelerated review program for serious diseases. 

 American depositary shares of Spectrum Signal Processing fell 3/8 to 2 9/16 after the Canadian company reported that revenues for the fourth quarter were about $6.5 million, or about 8% below the third-quarter level of $7.1 million. Spectrum provides digital signal processing. 

 Cache rose 1 1/8 to 8 1/8 after it said it plans to open 100 Lillie Rubin stores and 50 Cache stores over the next five years. The New York com pany owns and operates women's specialty apparel shops. 

 Evolving Systems, Englewood, Colo., advanced 3 to 7 9/16 after announcing that it has signed a multi-year agreement with Lucent Technologies, Murray Hill, N.J., to provide custom software support for Lucent's wireless packet data projects. Evolving Systems is a software development and systems integration firm. 

 Play-By-Play Toys & Novelties, San Antonio, Texas, shed 1 13/16 to 4 15/16 after warning that it expects to report a loss of 22 ce nts to 27 cents a share for its second quarter ended Jan. 31, wider than Wall Street expectations of a loss of a penny a share. American depositary receipts of Pacific Internet fell 10 1/16 to 37 15/16 as profit-taking hit the Singapore provider of Internet services after it more than doubled in value Friday in its first day of trading. 

 Electric Fuel, New Orleans, rose 7/16 to 3 11/16 after the company announced plan to begin selling products on its web site in coming months. Electric Fuel desi gns, makes and sells zinc-air battery systems. 

 (END) DOW JONES NEWS  02-08-99 

 03:29 PM 

Document dj00000020010826dv2801h51


News
STATE AUDIT RAISED RED FLAGS, BUT NOTHING WAS DONE

RON REDMOND and ANDREW SCHNEIDER, P-I Reporters   
1,851 words
4 February 1999
SeattlePI.com
SEPI
Final
A9
English
Copyright 1999. Hearst Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

Like most auditors, Paul Loveless has an eye for detail and a precise, mathematical mind that can follow a paper trail.

But Loveless met his match when he agreed to conduct a 1995 audit of a non-profit organization called Touchstones.

His office found the Seattle-based social services agency had overbilled taxpayers by more than $330,000 in 1993 and 1994.

``Where did all the money go? Good question,'' he concedes. ``I don't know.''

Loveless led the 1,000-hour State Auditor's Office investigation of the now-defunct Touchstones, whose stated mission was to serve as an advocate for children and families of color, particularly refugees and immigrants.

What Loveless and state, city and county agencies do know is that the books at Touchstones were a mess, programs were not provided and bills were duplicated. They also know that only a few thousand dollars were ever recovered and the people in charge were never penalized.

One of them, former board Chairman Kim Long Nguyen, still heads other social-service and job-placement agencies - and those agencies continue to receive millions in government contracts.

More than four years after Touchstones, Kim Long's current agencies have been billing taxpayers for millions of dollars in questionable services, according to former staff, clients and records reviewed by the Post-Intelligencer.

Abuses documented at the Refugee Federation Service Center and the Vietnamese Friendship Association of Greater Seattle include falsifying records, improper billing, concealing funds, and claims of services that didn't exist.

Kim Long denies the allegations against his agencies and says the earlier irregularities at Touchstones were the fault of the executive director, not he and other board members.

Loveless acknowledges he saw numerous red flags about other refugee agencies five years ago when he investigated Touchstones' books. There were clear overlaps among Touchstones and an assortment of organizations headed by Kim Long:

While Kim Long was board chairman of Touchstones, one of his other organizations, the Vietnamese Friendship Association, served as Touchstones' fiscal agent. Government money was channeled through the association because Touchstones had not received its tax-exempt status.

Kim Long and Touchstones' executive director, Joe Garcia, were longtime associates in several non-profit organizations and at least one business venture.

Refugee Federation and Friendship Association staff also worked for Touchstones, and Kim Long's younger brother, Kim Thanh Nguyen, was Touchstones' social services director.

Several agencies affiliated with Touchstones - most with similar names - emerged and disappeared between 1989 and 1998. For most of them, Kim Long was listed as president and his home address was given as their registered office.

Loveless, who no longer works for the state, says the connections were too obvious to ignore, but his team had specific instructions from state, county and city agencies to examine only Touchstones' books and no related agencies.

``We should have blasted that agency (Touchstones) wide open and never given another dime to any of them,'' he says now.

``We had red flags from day one, given the closeness of the relationship between the Refugee Federation and Touchstones and the difficulties of determining the organizational structure of the two agencies,'' he said.

``It would not have been unlikely that similar problems existed at the Refugee Federation. It would have been interesting to look at.''

So why wasn't it?

The Department of Social and Health Services, the main source of money for both Touchstones and Kim Long's Refugee Federation Service Center, provides about $500 million a year to more than 40,000 contractors who provide services ranging from child care and language training to job placement.

Jim Schnellman, lead field consultant for the DSHS Department of Operations and Review, said his small staff of auditors is responsible for examining internal DSHS operations as well as the books of the tens of thousands of outside contractors.

``We have a total of 16 staff in an agency of 17,000 people - half of the state work force are in DSHS,'' Schnellman said.

``We do a total of 60 to 70 consultations and audits a year, approximately 20 of them with contractors. We have more than 40,000 contracts. If we audit 20 in a year, that's good. We don't even scratch the surface as far as looking at individual contractors.''

Schnellman was, however, asked by the DSHS Division of Management and Operations Support to look at the Refugee Federation Service Center's books in mid-1997, about a year after Touchstones' troubles were made public.

But Schnellman said as far as he knew, his partial audit of the Refugee Federation wasn't connected to Kim Long's involvement in Touchstones. In fact, Schnellman said, he knew nothing about it at the time, although it was known to others in state government.

Former auditor Loveless expressed surprise over Schnellman's ignorance of the connections between Touchstones and the Refugee Federation.

``I find it highly unusual that you would have someone going in there without that type of foreknowledge,'' Loveless said, adding that such background information can help auditors focus on areas they might otherwise ignore.

That apparent lack of communication bothers Rep. Jim Clements, R-Selah. Clements learned a lot about Kim Long's numerous agencies when he served as chairman of a House select committee that looked into Touchstones and other non-profit agencies in 1997. He questions how DSHS could ignore obvious warning signs at agencies involving Kim Long.

``You have to have the highest degree of accountability,'' said Clements, who is pushing to establish a centralized list of problem agencies, possibly in the Secretary of State's Office.

``We need a blacklist, and we need to be able to say ... that if, in fact, you have been on the board of directors of any non-profit that's gone bankrupt or there's been malfeasance or misuse of government funds, at that point you'll be flagged. Once you're on those boards and once you're an administrator, you are duly responsible for those public funds and you have a fiduciary and a legal responsibility to maintain the integrity of the whole system.''

Schnellman of DSHS said his examination of the Refugee Federation in 1997 was ordered because of billing problems and focused on the agency's $1.47 million contract to provide employment-related services for refugees.

In his final report, Schnellman made numerous references to the lack of verification of services by the federation - a complaint similar to those that had been made about Touchstones.

``Even with the large volume of paper, bills did not include independent documentation of the greater part of the services provided,'' Schnellman wrote.

For the entire contract, he concluded, ``real verification occurs for only 27 percent of the total contract dollar value of services billed.'' With a total contract value of $1.47 million, that means only $406,600 could be verified.

Shown a copy of Schnellman's report, Loveless said it should have raised alarm bells at DSHS.

``That report definitely says to me, as a cold reader of it, that there were problems in the Refugee Federation,'' Loveless said. ``My impression was there there issues within the (federation) that required answers.''

Despite Schnellman's findings and Kim Long's involvement just months earlier in Touchstones, DSHS conducted no full-blown audit.

Asked if he thought DSHS should have looked deeper, Schnellman said that was a decision for his superiors.

Schnellman's bosses at DSHS said they had no concerns about Kim Long's leadership of the Refugee Federation.

``We wouldn't be comfortable contracting with them if we had concerns,'' said Liz Begert Dunbar, acting assistant secretary in the Economic Services Administration of DSHS.

Asked whether Kim Long's links to Touchstones were a concern, she said, ``You are drawing a connection that we didn't make and still do not make. I don't see a connection between the issues at Touchstones and the Refugee Federation Service Center.''

But that confidence was not shared by the Refugee Federation's own board of directors, which expressed its concern about Kim Long's activities in Touchstones as early as December 1994 - or by Loveless.

``I would say that they should have looked extremely close at any other agency associated with Touchstones,'' Loveless said. ``Of course, you're innocent until proven guilty in this country, but there were sure a lot of red flags there.''

Much of the oversight of non-profit agencies involves inspecting paperwork rather talking to the people who were supposed to have received the services.

In his 1997 partial audit, Schnellman found that the federation's paperwork appeared to be in order, but he did not contact clients directly for verification.

``We would be if we were doing an audit,'' he said of client verification. ``We would be going out verifying actual service delivery. But for a large portion of this contract, it's hard to have that. The vendor is creating most of the documentation ... and it's documentation that the contract says is valid.''

But Post-Intelligencer interviews with 75 people listed in federation documents found that there were questionable claims in more than 40 percent of the cases. Many of the clients disputed federation claims that it had placed them in jobs or provided employment-related workshops.

Schnellman hinted in his 1997 report that there was room for abuse at the federation. He noted, for example, that verification for billing often consisted of workshop attendance sheets or written statements from staff that clients had completed the required number of hours of certain kinds of training.

``While the consultants did not see indications of untruthfulness in such documents, the verification could not be considered independent,'' he said.

He also noted that duplicate bills submitted by the federation would not be rejected by computers as long as the same bill was not entered twice on the same day.

The agency responsible for regular monitoring of the Refugee Federation is the Seattle-King County Private Industry Council, which has a contract with DSHS to perform oversight. But Vicki Asakura, coordinator of refugee programs for the council, says she looks primarily at the paperwork and doesn't talk much with clients.

``It's not a bad idea to talk to clients,'' Asakura said. ``The biggest problem is that I don't speak the language.''

Five present and former staff members at the federation say Asakura and DSHS officials regularly provided advance notice of which specific files they would be examining during quarterly monitoring visits. Asakura recalls doing that only once or twice.

Jan Deretsky, a former job placement officer and coordinator at the federation, says DSHS and the Private Industry Council are too close to the federation to monitor it effectively.

``The bottom line is that DSHS and PIC are serving like advocates and protectors of the Refugee Federation Service Center rather than auditors,'' Deretsky said. ``They help RFSC write grants, get funds and shield RFSC from the real world. There is obvious conflict of interest.''

s

Document SEPI000020120616dv2400wqa




 Analysis: Hour 2; business news 

616 words
4 February 1999
Morning Edition
MGED
English
(c) 1999 National Public Radio, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

 BOB EDWARDS, host: And now with today's business report, here's NPR business correspondent Jack Speer. 

 JACK SPEER reporting: 

 Good morning.  One day after a decision by the Federal Reserve Board's Open Market Committee to hold the line on interest rates, stocks have turned lower at midday.  The Dow Jones industrial average is currently down 60 points at 9,308.  The NASDAQ is down 48 points. 

 Weighing on stocks this morning, a couple of key government economic reports that show the economy is still growing strongly.  That in turn has prompted fears the next move by the Fed could be to raise interest rates in order to keep the economy from growing too quickly. 

 Stronger-than-expected factory orders, which rose 2.3 percent in December, are getting some of the blame.  There were also new numbers that showed retail sales were a bit stronger than expected in January. 

 An earnings warning today from one of Japan's largest electronics makers. Hitachi announced its fiscal year losses may be greater than expected. Officials say Japan's currency's partly to blame.  A stronger yen has cut into some of the company's profit on exports.  Hitachi expects losses for the current year to total roughly 375 billion yen or roughly 3.3 billion US dollars. 

 February is sweeps month, the time the nation's television networks battle for market share.  That also applies to popular Spanish-language channels like Telemundo, one of the two big Hispanic networks, the other being Univision.  Telemundo recently began producing a series of new shows.  The network also is running English subtitles with some of its programs.  Ronald Gordon(ph) is president of ZGS, a Telemundo affiliate based in Washington, DC.  He says Hispanic-Americans are starting to have a major effect in the US market. 

 Mr.  RONALD GORDON (President, ZGS): Part of what we're trying to do is modernize the network so that it really comes up with some hot programming that addresses the Latino in the United States.  And doing the subtitling is one way of, in fact, addressing that strategy. 

 SPEER: Are Hispanic-Americans being well served, do you think, by traditional media? 

 Mr.  GORDON: Well, I think one of--you know, the Spanish media around the United States has boomed over the last 10, 15 years, and particularly in the last few years.  Telemundo, as you know, was recently acquired by Sony Pictures, and I think Telemundo's trying to carve a niche by having relationships, for example, with Nickelodeon, developing sitcoms that address life in the United States, and basically trying to do things that are a little bit more germane to life here in this country. 

 SPEER: Roughly, Ronald, how big is the Hispanic market in the US? 

 Mr.  GORDON: Well, I mean, it's got to be hitting around 30 million. I mean, the United States now is the fifth largest Spanish-speaking country in the world and it's lar--the Hispanic community and the Hispanic market in the United States is larger than Canada as a market. So this is a significant market and one that is growing. 

 SPEER: Ronald Gordon is with ZGS in Washington. 

 And The New York Times is reporting a federal court in Manhattan has ruled a new line of fish-shaped crackers from Nabisco do closely resemble Pepperidge Farms' famous Goldfish crackers.  As a result, the court has blocked Nabisco from getting a campaign next week that would involve the sale of the new product.  The snack features cheese crackers in the shape of fish, bones and an unusual half-dog, half-cat creature. Jack Speer, NPR News, Washington. 

Document mged000020010828dv24000al

Search Summary

 Text((“profit*” same “warning*”) or ("disappoint*" same "result*") or ("decreas*" same "profit*") or ("compan*" same "downturn*") or ("unexpect*" same "loss*"))   Date02/01/1999 to 02/28/1999   SourceAll Sources   AuthorAll Authors   CompanyAll Companies   Subject Not Corporate/Industrial News   IndustryAll Industries   RegionUnited States   LanguageEnglish   Results Found15   Timestamp28 March 2018 14:49  
 Page 46 of 46     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

