 
•	  Market Report - Electrocomponents slides as broker shaves forecast. 
•	  Cover Feature UK Recession? - Recession - The bear facts. 
•	 Staples bucks trend
•	  ADVISORY/Former Seinfeld Actor to Boost ``Whiplash! Awards'' for Michigan Group Fighting Frivolous Lawsuits 
•	  ICN Pharma CEO Says Co's Insider Transactions Normal 
•	  BRIDGE UPDATE-COMPANY NEWS - WorldCom to cut 10%-15%... - Part 2. 
•	  BRIDGE UPDATE-COMPANY NEWS - Honeywell Q4 profit... - Part 2. 
•	  Ericsson's cautious mobile projection weighs on telecoms sector. 
•	 Green Day merges old with new
•	  Nordic shares end slightly off, helped by Ericsson. 
•	  Energizer CEO: Comparisons Should Be Easier Now 
•	  Europe Stocks Review - Mostly up, but few trends in... - Part 2. 
•	  Late technology rally boosts broader market. 
•	  FFBN Health Care/Drug Wrap -2: Tuesday's Company News 
•	  AFTER THE BELL - Compaq up 15 percent, other high-techs rise. 
•	  MARKET TALK: 2000 Trading Value On Nasdaq Was $20 Trillion 
•	  MARKET TALK: After Strong 4Q, UBS Says Kudos To Conoco 
•	  MARKET TALK: Merrill Sees Limited Upside At FreeMarkets 
•	  MARKET TALK: Downside Priced In Internet Infrastructure 
•	  MARKET TALK: Nymex Crude Seen Opening Lower 
•	  MARKET TALK: Minimal Movement In Bond Market 
•	  MARKET TALK: Canada Cites Slowing U.S For Rate Cut 
•	  MARKET TALK: Analysts' Early Read On Merck Is Positive 
•	  MARKET TALK: Chain-Store Sales Fall On Weather Woes 
•	  MARKET TALK: Merrill Cuts TXN FY01 View, Price Target 
•	  MARKET TALK: Pru Sees Upside In Maxtor, Wstrn Digital EPS 
•	  MARKET TALK: Germany's Economic Outlook Sounds Like Ours 
•	  MARKET TALK: Profits May Be Taken On FOMC News 
•	  MARKET TALK: Tsys Focus Likely To Be On Stocks 
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	  Banking on revitalised sectors. 
•	  DRAGON'S QUIET EXIT ON EARLY CLOSING DAY.. 
•	  MARKET TALK: March S&Ps Testing Support At Overnight Low 
•	  MARKET TALK: Stock Futures Off To Lower Start 
•	 Stocks fall on profit-taking; Lower forecast by Dell not factor
•	 Stocks decline on profit-taking
•	  DELL WARNING NAGS AT TECH SHARES OPTIMISTIC OUTLOOK BUOYS RETAIL SECTOR  
•	  IBM, H-P, Gateway and Dell Fall; Target, Sears and Amgen Advance   
•	  New bailout for EM.TV devised. 
•	  Business Highlights 
•	  MARKET TALK: Patent Ruling Has Biotech Group Moving 
•	  MARKET TALK: Even With Recession, Worst May Be Behind Stks 
•	  MARKET TALK: Stock Futures May Work Their Way Mildly Lower 
•	  MARKET TALK: Euro Not At Start Of Long Downturn, UBS Says 
•	  MARKET TALK: Mavesa ADRs Get Bump On Polar Offer 
•	  MARKET TALK: Merrill Less Upbeat On Canada's Stock Market 
•	  MARKET TALK: Nymex Crude To See Weakness Early On 
•	  MARKET TALK: Merrill Saw Dell Miss Coming 
•	  MARKET TALK: Euro Headed Higher Against The Dollar 
•	  MARKET TALK: Lehman Sees Upside In Veritas Quarter 
•	  MARKET TALK: X-Mas Present Just In Time For Valentine's 
•	  MARKET TALK: More Deterioration As Economy Cools 
•	  MARKET TALK: Short-End Of Tsys Get Some Support 
•	  MARKET TALK: Recent Forex Trends Still In Place 
•	  MARKET TALK: TXN 4Q Looks Soft; Still Waiting On CA 
•	  MARKET TALK: FreeMarkets' 4Q Looks Good 
•	  MARKET TALK: Digital TV Rollout May Be Delayed Further 
•	  MARKET TALK: March S&Ps Ned To Rally Above 1369 
•	  US stocks drift higher, shrug off Dell warning 
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock reports   
•	  MARKET TALK: Merrill Doesn't See Upside To TI 4Q 
•	  MARKET TALK: IPE Mar Brent Support Seen At $26.45/Bbl 
•	  MARKET TALK:W Africa Oil Cleared Out For Feb, Mar Eyed 
•	  MARKET TALK:Northeast Pwr Prices Steady/Lower;Cold Eases 
•	  MARKET TALK: US Stock Mkts Seen Dn At Open;Futures Soft 
•	  BRIDGE TOP NEWS NOW - US equities seen opening weak as Dell warns. 
•	  BRIDGE TOP NEWS NOW - Qantas withdraws offer for Hazelton. 
•	  MARKET TALK: Some Good, Some Bad From FASB Pooling Change 
•	  MARKET TALK: As Others Weaken, Tech/Telecom Can Outperform 
•	  Monday Business Preview Blue-Chip Companies Set to Issue Earnings Results 
•	  EM.TV shares stage comeback. 
•	 Dow falters on  profit warning .
•	 Michigan-Based Shoe Manufacturer's  Profit Warning  Sends Stock Price Plunging
•	  WSJ.COM: Home Depot News Hits Blue Chips; Techs Struggle 
•	  MARKET TALK: Further Economic Decline Could Pinch Consumer 
•	  MARKET TALK: GOP Congress Members To Meet Mon. With Bush 
•	  MARKET TALK: MeriStar's Junk Issue Upsized To $500M 
•	  MARKET TALK: Most Of Bush's Cabinet To Get OK Next Week 
•	  MARKET TALK: Investors Concerns Drive Genentech Stk Lower 
•	  MARKET TALK: Technicals May Be Behind March S&Ps Softness 
•	  MARKET TALK: ADC Telecom Loses Some Supporters 
•	  MARKET TALK: Talk Of Derivatives Losses At French Bank 
•	  MARKET TALK: One Vote For Retest Of Market's Low 
•	  MARKET TALK: U.S. Economic Slowdown May Not 'V' Over Yet 
•	  MARKET TALK: Price, Market, Comps Lead To Schwab Downgrade 
•	  MARKET TALK: Big Move Up In Feb. Nymex Crude 
•	  NATION BRIEFING 
•	  Terra Lycos Spain Division Takes Out Nonpayment Insurance 
•	 PORTLAND OF YEARS PAST 25 YEARS AGO: 1976 ABOUT 300 PERSONS -- ALL 
•	  US STKS RALLY AS EARNINGS BETTER THAN FEARED - IBM BOOSTS TECHS. 
•	  BRIDGE UPDATE-COMPANY NEWS - Ford Motor Q4 net meets... - Part 2. 
•	  BRIDGE UPDATE-COMPANY NEWS - Johnson Controls beats Q1 estimates. 
•	  Scient Meets Lowered 3rd-Quarter Views, Warns Of Shrinking Revenue 
•	  Scient Meets Lowered 3Q Views, Warns Of Shrinking Revs 
•	  BRIDGE UPDATE-MAJOR MARKETS - Nasdaq surges over 4%, Dow turns... 
•	  BRIDGE UPDATE-MAJOR MARKETS - Nasdaq surges 5%, Dow turns ... 
•	  UK Retailers: Supermarkets Emerge As Top Sector 
•	  Companies: Disney's Good 2000 Puts Eisner Back On Bonus Track --- CEO Gets $11.5 Million After Company's Weak '99 



 Market Report - Electrocomponents slides as broker shaves forecast. 

 By Stephen Foley. 
1,129 words
30 January 2001
The Independent - London
IND
20
English
(c) 2001 Independent Newspapers (UK) Limited . All rights reserved. This material may not be published, distributed or exploited in any way.

 FEARS OF poor trading in the United States sent shares in Electrocomponents, the distributor of electronics equipment, lower yesterday as dealers kept both eyes on economic developments across the Atlantic. 

 The stock slipped another 15p to 655p on news that Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein has become the latest broker to turn more cautious. Analysts at the bank shaved about a percentage point off forecasts in a note to clients yesterday. They have recently trimmed their forecasts for Premier Farnell, the US market leader, whose shares were steady at 395p. 

 Nervousness over the prospects for US economic growth - now close to zero, according to Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman - was reignited by cautious comments from John Chambers, head of networking firm Cisco Systems, at the World Economic Forum in Davos at the weekend. 

 The big beneficiaries yesterday were banks, gaining on hopes for a 50-point US interest-rate cut tomorrow. Barclays, seen as most at risk from bad debts in a global recession, hit a record 2,244p - up 67p - on hopes that Mr Greenspan will avert one. JP Morgan also turned more bullish, raising its target price to #24 after Barclays shares busted the investment bank's previous expectations. 

 HSBC and Standard Chartered, exposed to the Asian markets that have most to gain from cuts in US rates, also surged. HSBC was 8p better at 1,075p after a strong performance in Hong Kong overnight; Standard Chartered rose 5p to 1,097p. Prudential, the life assurer whose Asian business has driven recent share price outperformance, was up 33p to 1,044p. 

 Alliance & Leicester was boosted 14p to 714p by speculation that National Australia Bank - which is known to be on the look-out for an acquisition in the UK - has cast its eye over the former building society. An upgrade from JP Morgan last week also helped; analysts at the investment bank reckon A&L will show the best earnings growth among mortgage banks this year. 

 The banking bonanza kept the FTSE 100 in positive territory, ending 22.7 points up at 6,317 - its best in seven weeks. But it was a quiet trading day, with many deals on ice until the Fed decides. Tech shares were modestly ahead overall, with the FTSE techMARK 100 closing at 2,782.93, ahead 2.67 points on the day. 

 Bookham Technology picked itself up after Friday's fall, with Goldman Sachs arguing that the reasons for its profit warning - write-downs as a major customer switches to new technology - are "underlyingly positive". And Autonomy, the internet software firm, jumped 28p to 2,168p after unveiling a collaboration with iManage. 

 Psion also looked to be heading for a positive showing as vague chatter of a bid from Palm countered a survey from canalys.com that suggested that its share of the European hand-held computer market had halved to just 9 per cent last year. 

 Fears of a profits warning were starting to be factored in last week, but news that Motorola had abandoned a development contract that would have accounted for 80 per cent of this year's profits came as a shock. Psion shares plunged to 51p to 213p. 

 There was more nosy buying of Games Workshop amid hopes for strong interim figures, which are due shortly. The toy retailer has risen 17 per cent in a week, and was up 14.5p to 154.5p yesterday. Benchmark, the property group, was up 5.5p to a record 329p after netting a #6.5m profit on its stake in Nexus Estates, which it sold to a management buyout. 

 Delayed interim figures from Metrodome, which has set up a science-fiction portal and e-tailer, showed the company is now running on its overdraft. There was also concern over the departure of the managing director of its home-entertainment division. Metrodome shares, knocked heavily last week, were unchanged at 38.5p. 

 Tolmount, the cash shell chaired by David Rogers, fell 6.5p to 41.5p as some investors feared negotiations on an acquisition have stalled. Chrome Technology, the vulture fund also chaired by Mr Rogers, held at 25.5p. The company was floated in October to speed consolidation among internet incubators, and gossips predicted an imminent reverse takeover deal. 

 SEAQ TRADES: 101,784 

 SEAQ VOLUME: 1.62bn 

 THE PAIN control company CeNeS Pharmaceuticals is launching a City roadshow this week as it ponders a fundraising. The company wants cash to build up a sales force for its Xefo post-operative pain drug, licensed from Nycomed Pharma. Management will visit shareholders including CSFB and Prudential. CeNeS shares were up a penny to 59.5p yesterday, cheered by positive trial results from its morphine alternative last week. 

 MARKET MOVERS 

 Allied Domecq 421p (up 11p, 4.8 per cent). Says trading over Christmas 2000 compares with the Millennium period and the new year has started satisfactorily. 

 BT 692p (up 23p, 3.4 per cent). Confirms it could demerge, rather than spin off, Yell as it prepares to face investors over dinner. 

 Carlton Communications 535p (up 16p, 3.1 per cent). Speculation it could merge its online interests with those of Granada Media. 

 Creston 115p (up 12.5p, 12.2 per cent). Approval for transformation in to a marketing group. 

 Pace Micro Technology 675p (up 65p, 10.7 per cent). Deal with Sega to develop a digital television set-top box. 

 St James's Place 416p (up 30p, 7.8 per cent). Positive comment on new business figures last week. 

 Telewest Communications 146p (up 5p, 3.6 per cent). Price competition seen easing in the UK. 

 Trinity Care 131p (up 22.5p, 20.7 per cent). Says it is in takeover talks. 

 Web Angel 10.75p (up 3.5p, 48.3 per cent). Weekend press tip highlights recent upward revaluation of two investments. 

 EMI 523p (down 12p, 2.2 per cent). Doubts raised over tie-up with Bertelsmann after regulators rumoured to be playing hardball. 

 GKN 821p (down 22p, 2.6 per cent). Speculation that CK Chow, the respected chief executive, will move to Brambles, an Australian joint venture partner. 

 Iceland 192.5p (down 12p, 5.9 per cent). Row over share sales by Malcolm Walker, the chairman, before this month's profit warning. 

 IQE 235p (down 25p, 9.5 per cent). Cisco caution on growth targets knocks telecoms equipment firms. 

 Lattice 134p (down 6p, 4.3 per cent). Regulatory review of asset valuation. 

 SCi Entertainment 103.5p (down 25.5p, 19.8 per cent). Investors exit after accounting adjustments triggered profit warning. 

 Thus 62p (down 4p, 6.1 per cent). Nerves over interim figures due this morning, as its Demon internet service provider is seen as likely to disappoint. 

Document ind0000020010712dx1u00eho




 Cover Feature UK Recession? - Recession - The bear facts. 

 By Philip Thornton, economics correspondent, The Independent. 
2,530 words
30 January 2001
Accountancy
ACCUK
28
English
(c) 2001 Accountancy Magazines

 The R-word is back. Britain has not suffered a recession for a decade and it is two years since the idea was a serious proposition. But the sudden downturn in the United States has reawakened old fears this side of the Atlantic. 

 Even Sir Edward George, the ever-cautious governor of the Bank of England, felt the need to warn that 'if America really sneezes, we all catch cold'. 

 Add to that a 10% slump on the London stock market, and some pretty gloomy estimates for the impact of the foot and mouth outbreak on GDP, and you have an intellectually respectable case for a recession. 

 So far, most experts are cautiously optimistic about the UK's chances of escaping the worst of the fall-out. Chief cheerleader is the chancellor Gordon Brown, who has stuck by his Budget forecast of 'stable' growth this year. The Treasury certainly has a good track record. It correctly forecast weak growth in 1998 in the face of dire predictions of a recession triggered by the twin crises in South East Asia and Russia. 

 But is Brown right to be so confident this time around? In 1997 and 1998 the threat came from some of the world's smallest economies, whereas now the largest economy is in trouble. The US is possibly in recession - technically defined as two quarters of negative growth. Certainly its manufacturing sector has crashed. A key question for businesses is how deep this downturn will be. America's central bank, the Federal Reserve, has cut interest rates several times, but it would be a brave economist to predict with certainty whether or not the US will escape recession. 

 The issue is whether, in a globalised economy, Britain can remain immune from contagion if the world's two largest economies - Japan has already stagnated - hit the buffers. 

 A chill wind 

 The UK's economy is linked to America in three ways - foreign investment, financial markets and trade - and a chill wind is starting to blow across the Atlantic. The US and the UK are the world's two largest international investors, and both countries invest more in each other than in any other nation. A fifth of all foreign direct investment (FDI) into the US comes from the UK. Around two-fifths of the inward FDI into the UK comes from the US. 

 If the US economy crashes this will hurt businesses with subsidiaries in America and companies in the UK that are owned by US multinationals. 

 Hardly a day goes by without a new piece of bad news on the jobs front. 

 The high-technology sector - which was key to the recent record boom in the US - is clearly suffering. The UK repositioned itself early on to attract hi-tech investment, and is now paying the price. 

 Motorola, Cisco, Nortel, Lucent in the US, Marconi in the UK and Ericsson, Alcatel and Siemens have all taken the axe to their workforces, cutting some 100,000 jobs so far. Official figures show output of the mobile phone and component sector tumbled almost 30% in January. The technology, media and telecoms sector - alias TMT or New Economy - has proved a classic example of boom and bust. Unrealistic growth expectations, rash lending (both secured and unsecured), and an assumption that a new economic trend had been discovered, led to a sharp reversal when the economy turned. 

 Economists such as Andrew Smithers, of Smithers & Co in the City, have drawn comparisons with patterns in the 19th century when excessive investment in innovations such as railways meant that a sharp contraction - and recession - was the only way to correct the imbalance. 

 Whether that is the case or not, the corporate sector certainly looks as if it is in trouble. Two leading business organisations have slashed their forecasts for economic growth this year. The Confederation of British Industry (CBI) and the Institute of Directors (IoD) both now expect growth of around 2% this year thanks to the foot and mouth crisis and the global economic slowdown. 

 Ruth Lea, the IoD's head of policy, believes the UK will endure two quarters of zero growth this year - as close to a recession as one can go. 'It is hard to be optimistic', she says. 'An insidious combination of adverse events is increasing the prospect of significant slowdown. There is a combination of factors that has begun to affect consumer confidence, which can affect business confidence. That's how these things can go.' 

 Confidence is key 

 Confidence is a key element in the debate. So far, UK households have remained optimistic and have continued to spend and dabble in the housing market. But, as the recent US experience shows, a break in confidence can trigger a vicious cycle of falling spending, business profit warnings, and falling share prices, so undermining confidence. 

 If American consumers stop spending, as now looks to be the case, UK companies will have to find someone else to sell to. With Japan stagnating, the UK must look to continental Europe, which already takes more than half of all British exports and is therefore far more important in trade terms. But the jury is out on the fate of the European economy. It too is likely to be affected by the US slowdown, and many people believe the European Central Bank's failure to cut rates could prove to be a mistake. 

 A sector breakdown of the UK is revealing. Manufacturing, which makes up 20% of the economy, contracted by 0.1% in the three months to February - the first negative three-monthly growth for a year. Even before the 'tech wreck', this sector was caught between spiralling raw materials costs and slow, or even falling, inflation on the high street. On the one hand oil prices tripled in 18 months while, on the other, manufacturers found themselves at the mercy of global over-supply and fierce competition aided by the extra price transparency the internet makes possible. 

 Manufacturers are making less money as a proportion of their capital than at any time since 1993, according to the official figures. Things can only get worse. Retailers too suffered intense competition, with prices of some clothing lines falling at the fastest rate since the days of rationing. 

 The continuing grief at Marks and Spencer is just one manifestation. In the services sector, which constitutes two-thirds of the economy, net rates of return fell to a four-year low in 2000. Some economists believe an obsession with inflation has exacerbated these problems. 

 A strong pound and high interest rates created tight monetary conditions that pushed industrial and retail inflation to historic lows. At the same time, average earnings rose strongly and the oil price tripled. The worry for businesses is that if sales slow while labour costs keep rising, then companies will plunge into the red. 

 According to Richard Jeffrey, director of economics at Charterhouse Securities, this paradigm has already emerged in the US. 'The problems being reported by companies within their UK operations can be regarded as another symptom of overheating, and there may be more bad news to come,' he says. 

 Amber warning 

 Two other key indicators of corporate health have started to flash amber. 

 According to Dun & Bradstreet, the business information service, London has suffered its first rise in company failures for nine years. As the capital tends to lead the rest of the country, this portends ill for the UK. 

 Research by Ernst & Young (E&Y) reveals a sharp rise in the number of profit warnings. A total of 136 quoted UK firms issued a warning in the first quarter of the year, a 77% rise on the previous three months and the largest since E&Y started collating the data in 1998. Worryingly, the companies involved were not just TMT, but spread across sectors such as retailers, hoteliers, food producers and engineers. It forecasts 150 warnings for the current quarter. 

 The City of London is experiencing a slowdown. Merger and acquisition deals in the first three months of this year were 40% down on 2000. CSFB and JP Morgan are reported to have cut jobs, while many others, including Goldman Sachs, have instituted a headcount freeze. 

 Banking profits will come under pressure, not helped by the record bonuses paid out earlier this year. Bonuses next year could be sharply down. This is likely to have a direct effect on house prices. The gap between prices in London and the rest of the UK is the widest on record. Homebuyers are borrowing multiples of their incomes not seen since the late 1980s. 

 As John O'Sullivan, chief UK economist at investment bank Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, says: 'What followed then was a period when London prices under-performed by 30% in a rapidly under-performing market.' Gerrard, a City fund manager, believes the bear market for stocks could drag London house prices down 4% this year. 

 On top of this came the foot and mouth crisis. Estimates predict a cut in annual economic output by between #100m and #700m - or 0.1-0.7% of GDP - as farming collapses and rural tourism suffers. Ruth Lea says: 'This wretched foot and mouth - people at first just treated it as if it were no matter, and they can now see that the rural economy is suffering quite badly.' 

 Evidence has been arriving almost daily. The Brewers and Licensed Retailers Association said pubs' takings are down by an average of 18%. The Federation of Small Business reported a slump in business of up to 70%. The British Incoming Tour Operators Association said bookings from overseas were down around 25%. Preliminary research commissioned within Whitehall highlighted 126 business activities that could be affected. 

 E&Y said the epidemic would play a major role in an expected increase in profit warnings. John Harley, a partner in E&Y's corporate finance division, comments: 'There is no telling the number of warnings this will generate, but we see an early end to the economic impacts.' 

 Some experts admit they are worried about repeating - in reverse - the mistake of 1998 when they hurriedly converted forecasts for growth into recession on the back of the Asia crisis. 'Are we missing the scoop?' asks Geoffrey Dicks, chief UK economist at Royal Bank of Scotland. 'Is a serious deceleration in activity just around the corner? With taxes and interest rates coming down, probably not. But the risks are there.' 

 Not convinced 

 Most analysts are not convinced of the inevitability of a recession. The economy grew by 3% last year - above trend but not the unsustainable 5% that the US enjoyed last year. The economy has slowed, growing 0.8% in the summer and then dropping by half to 0.4% in the last three months of 2000. The first estimate for the first three months of 2001 showed quarterly growth of just 0.3% - a sharp deceleration, but still growth. 

 Business leaders are worried the UK could talk itself into a slump. According to Digby Jones, the CBI's director-general, 'the word recession should stay right off the agenda'. David Sears, the deputy director-general of the British Chambers of Commerce, says his organisation's data show that confidence has actually risen so far this year. 'This does not support fears of imminent recession,' he points out. 

 According to Robert Barrie, chief UK economist at Credit Suisse First Boston (CSFB), if there were a recession it would be the first not caused by a domestic policy failure. In both the early 1970s and late 1980s the shackles were thrown off the consumer economy, allowing a spending and borrowing spree that left the economy vulnerable to a shock from rising interest rates needed to control inflation. In the early 1980s the incoming Tory government tightened policy, forcing up the pound and throwing hundreds of thousands on the dole. 

 Diane Coyle, who worked at the Treasury in the mid-1980s and now runs the consultancy Enlightenment Economics, believes the boom that set the stage for the early 1990s bust was fuelled by tax cuts and low interest rates. 'The government didn't have an adequate macroeconomic framework after the failure of monetarism,' she recalls. 'It had had to abandon the monetary targets it set earlier in the decade because banking deregulation made them meaningless, and it didn't replace them with an alternative policy.' 

 She says the outlook now is much better, with little sign of policy mistakes waiting to ambush the economy. 'You can quibble about the policies, but the Bank of England's responsibility for setting interest rates, and the reasonably tough fiscal rules mean we just haven't had the kind of excessive boom that will force the economy into a recession.' 

 CSFB's Barrie says the major change over recent years has been a shift away from macro to micro-economics. He points out that 20 years ago an oil price shock would have triggered a rise in prices and wages as retailers and workers took out insurance against a spike in inflation. 'Micro-volatility has replaced macro-volatility,' he comments. 'That's a good thing because it allows individual business cycles to reassert themselves. Despite the lack of recession there will be plenty of business for accountants and receivers.' 

 Damage limitation 

 So what should the business manager do now to prepare, be it for a slowdown or a recession? Even the thought of a slump and all that that entails - business closures, job cuts, rising unemployment - will be alien to many people. The UK economy has now enjoyed a record 34 quarters (eight and a half years), of unbroken economic growth. Anyone setting up his or her own business since the summer of 1992 has known nothing but growth. For them, managing in a downturn will be a new challenge. 

 One of the first steps is to review the company's cost base. The most visible element of this is cutting the workforce, and there has been widespread evidence of companies already doing this. Forbidding the use of taxis in favour of public transport and economy class instead of business class flights are two examples of more subtle cost cuts. Advertising, which is easy and painless to cut, has fallen dramatically over the spring. 

 A danger for managers is cutting too deep. This can leave them struggling to recruit staff, which will make it difficult to get up to speed again to take advantage of a recovery in growth. 

 Craig Benedetti, a business regeneration partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers, advises firms to identify specific activities that consume more resources than are warranted. Among other things, he suggests: 

 - moving from fixed contracts and in-house operations towards more outsourcing and greater use of flexible contracts; 

 - formulating a plan to cut costs across the business, rather than respond to a downturn with sudden unexpected cost cuts; and 

 - looking at ways to convert assets into working capital to forestall a crash crisis. 

 'As always, planning ahead gives you more options for positive change than does responding after the fact,' says Benedetti. 

Document accuk00020011010dx1u0005m




Business
Staples bucks trend

GREG GATLIN   
304 words
30 January 2001
Boston Herald
BHLD
ALL
30
English
Copyright © 2001 Boston Herald, All rights reserved.  Distributed by NewsBank, Inc.   

Staples Inc.'s plan to go full bore with store expansion plans, even as rivals close stores, has some analysts worried that the Framingham office supply retailer may be overly ambitious.

OfficeMax Inc. of Shaker Heights, Ohio, will slash hundreds of jobs as part of a previously announced plan to close 50 stores, including one in Danvers. Yesterday, OfficeMax said it would open less than 25 new stores this year, instead of the planned 50, "in light of the significant and widespread economic slowdown."

Earlier this month, another rival, Office Depot Inc., of Delray Beach, Fla., said it would close 67 U.S. stores, including two in Massachusetts.

"We have no similar announcements to what OfficeMax and Office Depot have made," said John Mahoney, Staples' executive vice president and and chief administrative officer. Staples still plans 170 new stores this year _ 150 in North America, he said.

That expansion plan has Buckingham Research Group analyst Daniel Binder "a little concerned," in light of a Staples' earnings warning last week, and sales trends. Staples has been more successful and analytical than rivals in growing its business, Binder said. Still, its sales and profit margins are under pressure from "irrational" growth among office supply retailers, he said.

"One could argue that Staples is the best operator and smells blood right now, but even leaders need to balance growth and returns," Binder said.

Binder believes that the industry in North America can support about 2,600 office supply stores. Staples says there's room for 5,000.

"Our position all along has been that it's execution that makes the difference," Mahoney said. "Max and Depot opened a lot of bad stores. If there isn't enough business to be able to support a store, the store won't do well."

Document BHLD000020110828dx1u005qv




 ADVISORY/Former Seinfeld Actor to Boost ``Whiplash! Awards'' for Michigan Group Fighting Frivolous Lawsuits 

445 words
30 January 2001
12:01
Business Wire
BWR
English
 (Copyright (c) 2001, Business Wire) 

 SOUTHFIELD, Mich.--(ENTERTAINMENT WIRE)--Jan. 30, 2001-- 

 WHAT: John O'Hurley, the popular actor who played J. Peterman on the television series, Seinfeld, and currently host of the game show, To Tell The Truth, this week will promote a creative project developed by a legal watchdog group in Michigan. The project, a tongue-in-cheek "award" given to America's most frivolous lawsuits and given the name, the Whiplash! Awards, was created by Southfield-based Michigan Lawsuit Abuse Watch (M-LAW), and James Percelay, a former producer for Saturday Night Live and author of a book on silly lawsuits entitled, Whiplash! O'Hurley invited Percelay to appear as a celebrity guest on his show after the two met on the set of Fox Morning News. 

 WHEN: The segment featuring Percelay and the Whiplash! Awards will air January 31. For complete listings, visit www.totellthetruth.tv. 

 ABOUT THE WHIPLASH! AWARDS. Last year, M-LAW featured five lawsuits from Percelay's book on its web site and allowed the people of America to pick the nation's worst lawsuit via an Internet poll. With Percelay promoting the Whiplash! Awards on national television, thousands logged onto M-LAW's web site and selected the winner of the dubious award: an outrageous case filed by a woman against a blind man who accidentally stepped on her foot. 

 ABOUT M-LAW: Michigan Lawsuit Abuse Watch is a non-profit organization working to eliminate frivolous lawsuits. A non-partisan group, M-LAW has 2,000 supporters around the United States. Earlier this month, M-LAW released the winners of its fourth annual Wacky Warning Label Contest which reveals how lawsuits, and fear of lawsuits, have prompted warnings against obvious misuses of products. 

 M-LAW President Robert B. Dorigo Jones says, "The high cost of frivolous lawsuits is no laughing matter, but M-LAW is happy to use humor to increase public awareness of the high cost of this uniquely American problem. As more citizens become aware of this issue, it is our hope and expectation that support for eliminating the lawsuit abuse problem will also grow." M-LAW also sponsors other, more serious, projects such as its annual student essay contest which highlights the importance of jury service. 

 A photo of To Tell The Truth host, John O'Hurley, holding M-LAW's Whiplash! Award is available on M-LAW's web site at www.mlaw.org. For more information on M-LAW, please call 888-321-MLAW (6529) 

Document bwr0000020010710dx1u00rhq




 ICN Pharma CEO Says Co's Insider Transactions Normal 

 By Carey Sargent 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
526 words
26 January 2001
10:39
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 ZURICH -(Dow Jones)- ICN Pharmaceuticals Inc.'s (ICN) Chief Executive Milan Panic said Thursday there is nothing unusual about "substantial" insider transactions that were reported in mid-December. 

 "Insiders should sell when it fits into their financial planning," he said. "I always say they should sell when it suits them." 

 In mid to late November, two vice presidents and the chief financial officer sold a total of 51,437 of the company's shares at a price range between $35 and $35.25. The company has almost 80 million shares outstanding, with a float of 62 million. 

 ICN's shares are currently trading around $25 after falling almost 16% on a Jan. 19 profit warning citing increased investment in research and development, a higher tax rate and a temporary slowdown in the royalties on the company's Hepatitis C drug. 

 Asked if senior management's selling a block of shares six to eight weeks before a profit warning would cause a problem, a spokeswoman at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said: "It depends on the circumstances - it might be a problem and it might not." 

 She wouldn't elaborate on what these circumstances might be, but the issue at hand is who knew what and when. 

 Though the present situation may not cause trouble, Panic and some of his associates have had problems in the past. The SEC has filed multiple suits against Panic, with one still pending. The SEC contends that in 1994 and 1995 Panic and other company officials continued to make misleading statements about the drug application status for Hepatitis C drug ribavirin despite an FDA rejection. 

 In the three months between the FDA's decision in late November and the press release that made the rejection public in mid-February 1995, Panic sold around $1.25 million in stock. 

 When the FDA decision was made public, company shares fell 23% and then an additional 16% on the next day of trading. 

 ICN contends that investors "understood" after a December press release that ribavirin had been rejected as a stand alone treatment. 

 "I've been investigated so many times and no one has ever found that I sold on insider information," Panic said Thursday at a Zurich investors meeting. 

 He added that he would now be selling smaller amounts of his shares "every few months." 

 "It's simple estate planning," he said. 

 On Dec. 13, the company said that Panic wouldn't sell 50,000 of his own common stock shares, as had been indicated in a form filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission earlier in December. 

 The company said at the time that Panic "chose not to sell the shares" because he felt the market price for the shares was undervalued. 

 According to SEC filings, Panic currently holds 2.3 million exercisable stock options. 

 ICN is currently restructuring and plans to divide the company into three publicly traded companies, ICN Americas, ICN International and Ribapharm. 

 -By Carey Sargent, Dow Jones Newswires; +41 1 211 6637; carey.sargent@dowjones.com 

Document dji0000020010711dx1q00e1u




 BRIDGE UPDATE-COMPANY NEWS - WorldCom to cut 10%-15%... - Part 2. 

704 words
26 January 2001
17:45
FWN Select
FWS
English
(c) 2001

 New York, Jan 26, 2001 (FWN Select via COMTEX) - Dominion Resources Inc. [US;D] reported a fourth-quarter operating net of 59 cents a share, above analysts' expectations of 57 cents a share, compared with 35 cents a share a year ago, The company's net income was $107 million, compared with $59 million in the year-ago period. Dominion Resources expects an operating net of $4.10 a share in 2001, in line with analysts' estimates of $4.11 a share. ( Story .12674 ) 

 UK's Bryant Group H1 pretax profit 42 mln stlg vs. 40.4 mln stlg 

 London-Jan. 26-U.K. housebuilder and property company Bryant Group PLC [GB;BRYN] reported profit before tax of 42 million sterling ($61.33 million) for the half-year ended Nov. 30, compared with 40.4 million sterling a year ago. Earnings per share stood at 10.3 pence as against 9.6 pence last year. Turnover for the half-year was 334.9 million sterling compared with 338.5 million sterling the earlier year. ( Story .11221 ) 

 Bookham Technology slides on Q4 profit warning, acquisition 

 London-Jan. 26-Bookham Technology shares (GB;BHM) were hammered in morning trading after the London-based firm handed invest.rs a fourth-quarter profit warning while also announcing it will spend $47.5 million to acquire a rival. ( Story .11282 ) 

 Boeing CEO says plant closures are an option to boost efficiency 

 Amsterdam-Jan. 26-Boeing Co. [US;BA], the U.S. plane manufacturer, is considering a number of options, including the closure of plants, as part of its drive to increase efficiency and boost group productivity, company Chief Executive Officer Phil Condit said in an interview with CNBC. Condit said the company had a "great year" in 2000 and that he was unconcerned about competitive developments regarding Airbus Industrie's A380 superjumbo. ( Story .11167 ) 

 00 S. Korea Hyundai Motor mum on reports of taking stake in DaimlerChrysler 

 Seoul-Jan. 26-South Korea's Hyundai Motor [kr;538] declined to comment on a report by the Financial Times earlier in the week that the Korean automaker had proposed to take an equity stake in DaimlerChrysler [DE;DCX] if the U.S.-German automaker increases its stake in Hyundai beyond 15%. ( Story .24659 ) 

 PepsiCo's Enrico sees little impact from US slowdown 

 Amsterdam-Jan. 26-PepsiCo Inc. [US;PEP], the world's number two beverage manufacturer, sees little in the way of impact on the company as a result of a U.S. economic slowdown, company Chief Executive Officer Roger Enrico said in an interview with CNBC. Enrico said the company will concentrate on expanding its businesses in China, India and Russia in the future. ( Story .11406 ) 

 Novartis gets EU approval for Femara breast cancer treatment 

 Zurich-Jan. 26-Swiss pharmaceutical group Novartis AG [CH;NOV] said it h+-s received approval under the Mutual Recognition Procedure to market Femara, its first-line treatment for advanced breast cancer, in 14 European countries. Individual country marketing authorizations should follow within 45 days, it said. ( Story .11316 ) 

 Qualcomm may cancel offering of stock in semiconductor business 

 New York-Jan. 25-Shaky financial markets may force Qualcomm Inc. (US;QCOM), the developer of CDMA wireless communications technology, to cancel a public offering of shares in its semiconductor business. The warning came as Qualcomm reported a fiscal first-quarter operating profit of $231.6 million, up 10% from a year earlier. The company reported earnings per share of 29 cents, up from 27 cents a year earlier and a penny better than Wall Street analysts expected. ( Story .5979 ) 

 RJ Reynolds net tops views; judge calls mistrial in asbestos case 

 Kansas City-Jan. 25-R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings (US;RJR) topped Wall Street's fourth-quarter profit projections, and the company raised earnings guidance for the first quarter despite forecasting declining volumes. The results came as a federal judge declared a mistrial in a suit seeking to hold R.J. Reynolds, Philip Morris Cos. and other cigarette makers responsible for paying a share of the health care claims of former asbestos workers who smoked. ( Story .5977 ) 

 (C) Copyright 2001 FWN 


KEYWORD:	    New York.


Document fws0000020010712dx1q008ii




 BRIDGE UPDATE-COMPANY NEWS - Honeywell Q4 profit... - Part 2. 

332 words
26 January 2001
14:14
FWN Select
FWS
English
(c) 2001

 Jan 26, 2001 (FWN Select via COMTEX) - ( Story .24659 ) 

 PepsiCo's Enrico sees little impact from US slowdown 

 Amsterdam-Jan. 26-PepsiCo Inc. [US;PEP], the world's number two beverage manufacturer, sees little in the way of impact on the company as a result of a U.S. economic slowdown, company Chief Executive Officer Roger Enrico said in an interview with CNBC. Enrico said the company will concentrate on expanding its businesses in China, India and Russia in the future. ( Story .11406 ) 

 Novartis gets EU approval for Femara breast cancer treatment 

 Zurich-Jan. 26-Swiss pharmaceutica-group Novartis AG [CH;NOV] said it has received approval under the Mutual Recognition Procedure to market Femara, its first-line treatment for advanced breast cancer, in 14 European countries. Individual country marketing authorizations should follow within 45 days, it said. ( Story .11316 ) 

 Qualcomm may cancel offering of stock in semiconductor business 

 New York-Jan. 25-Shaky financial markets may force Qualcomm Inc. (US;QCOM), the developer of CDMA wireless communications technology, to cancel a public offering of shares in its semiconductor business. The warning came as Qualcomm reported a fiscal first-quarter operating profit of $231.6 million, up 10% from a year earlier. The company reported earnings per share of 29 cents, up from 27 cents a year earlier and a penny better than Wall Street analysts expected. ( Story .5979 ) 

 RJ Reynolds net tops views; judge calls mistrial in asbestos case 

 Kansas City-Jan. 25-R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings (US;RJR) topped Wall Street's fourth-quarter profit projections, and the company raised earnings t guidance for the first quarter despite forecasting declining volumes. The results came as a federal judge declared a mistrial in a suit seeking to hold R.J. Reynolds, Philip Morris Cos. and other cigarette makers responsible for paying a share of the health care claims of former asbestos workers who smoked. ( Story .5977 ) 

 S 

 (C) Copyright 2001 FWN 

 . 

Document fws0000020010712dx1q008ht




 Ericsson's cautious mobile projection weighs on telecoms sector. 

511 words
26 January 2001
11:12
FWN Select
FWS
English
(c) 2001

 Jan 26, 2001 (FWN Select via COMTEX) - By BridgeNews 

 London-Jan. 26-The European telecoms sector was under selling pressure on Friday morning as the spillover from a weak performance by their U.S. counterparts Thursday was compounded by a cautious projection on mobile phone handset sales this year from Ericsson Telephone AB, the Swedish handset and network company that sells 10% of the world's mobile phones. 


		  *			 *			 *




Ericsson this morning reported a pretax profit for 2000 of 28.7 billion Swedish kronor, up from 16.4 billion kronor in 1999 and slightly above consensus expectations.



However, the company said the results in its mobile phones business were "unsatisfactory," with losses caused by delivery failure from key suppliers and an inadequate product mix in the entry-level market. It addressed this problem by announcing it is to outsource handset production.



One London analyst welcomed the move and said the company "is playing to its strengths," primarily its position as the leading mobile network infrastructure provider. But he said there weoe "some slight concerns" about the handset business, while another analyst said there were worries at a warning of zero pretax profit for the first quarter of this year and slipping margins.



There were also worries about a cautious industry growth forecast. Ericsson said it shipped 43.3 million phones during 2000, an increase of 38% on the year, out of global handset sales of between 405-415 million units. Ericsson said it expects between 500 and 540 million units in 2001, a more cautious projection than a forecast of 550 million units from Finland's Nokia, the world's leading mobile manufacturer. Lehman Brothers sees 2001 mobile sales of between 535-540 million.



Ericsson's shares fell sharply following the statement. At 1000 GMT, Ericsson was down 12 kronor, or 10.1%, at 106.5.



Ericsson's telecoms equipment peers in Europe were also all lower. At 1003 GMT, Nokia was down 1.2% at 40.19 euros; France's Alcatel was down 4.2% at 61.3 euros; Germany's Siemens was down 2.9% at 153.4 euros; and the United Kingdom's Marconi was down 3.5% at 684 pence.



The negative sentiment also spilled wider through the telecoms sector. Mobile phone operators suffered due to the prospect of a slowdown. At 1006 GMT, the United Kingdom's Vodafone was down 1.2% at 234.25 pence; Germany's Deutsche Telekom was down 1.4% at 34.5 euros; and France Telecom was down 1.1% at 94.7 euros.



Related equipment makers also retreated. Among them, ARM Holdings, the U.K. company that develops microchips mainly for use in mobile phones, was down 4.6% at 534 pence.



But one analyst said Thursday's slump on the Nasdaq was amore significant drag on the sector than Ericsson's predictions. "I'd see it as more down to the general tech malaise. It's so heavily influenced by the Nasdaq at the moment," he said.



(C) Copyright 2001 FWN



.


Document fws0000020010712dx1q008h7




BNews
Green Day merges old with new

NICK CARTER; Journal Sentinel staff   
514 words
26 January 2001
The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel
MLWK
Final
08
English
Copyright 2001, The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

It's a dilemma faced by every aging punk band: How do you gracefully grow older as an act?

When Green Day first got national attention in the early '90s -- even before it became a staple of Lollapalooza tours and MTV specials -- its rise could be attributed to rock's first heavy wave of punk-rock nostalgia. So Green Day dutifully kept with the market imperatives of the times and carried out the overall energy and spirit of late '70s punk.

Yet all the while, the band went out of its way to keep its tempos bright and the lyrical matter light.

The 2001 Green Day -- still led by singer-guitarist Billie Joe Armstrong and rounded out by bassist Mike Dirnt and drummer Tre Cool -- conveyed both its original, youthful charms as well as a more emerging pensive side Wednesday night at the Rave before a crowd of 2,500 that ranged from preteens to early 30s.

The perk-punk-era Green Day dominated the first half of the show, with Armstrong leading the trio through a rousing rendition of "Nice Guys Finish Last." "Longview" and "Welcome to Paradise" also kept with the band's early appeal, with the trio jumping around the stage and the audience moshing away in front as if it were '91 all over again, when the band began tearing it up in San Francisco concert halls.

But time, perspective and profit eventually made Green Day wiser and more ironic punks, and that difference in demeanor is apparent in the group's more recent material -- some of which even discards punk altogether. Even as far back as '97, the group displayed a gently brooding side with its Irish folk-flavored single "Good Riddance (Time of Your Life)," and a couple numbers performed from the band's new album, "Warning," sounded more like early '60s Merseybeat-pop than mid-'70s or even later punk.

It's as if the band is avoiding the fate of aging punks by returning to a source that predates its actual roots.

But a lot of Green Day's familiar stage antics remain the same. When Armstrong went into his routine of taking requests from the audience, he made sure to include a Motley Crue number and snippets from other heavy metal tunes, as he did during a show at Marcus Amphitheater several years back.

Openers The Get-Up Kids seemed to be coming from a musical place very much like the headliners. The band mixes indie-pop and punk sounds into its own personal mire.

And the crowd participation the Kids managed to induce created quite a stir of its own. "They're a great band, but their fans are crazy," said a wide-eyed Konrad Koehler, 16, who attended Wednesday's show. "I was down in front, getting tossed around, and a girl actually bit me when I was trying to get out from under all the moshing," he added, rolling up his sleeve and revealing a fresh pair of teeth marks.

Document MLWK000020100320dx1q0146s




 Nordic shares end slightly off, helped by Ericsson. 

763 words
25 January 2001
18:02
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 STOCKHOLM, Jan 25 (Reuters) - A dramatic turnaround in the fortunes of Ericsson's price helped Nordic stocks to claw back most losses that dogged the region's bourses throughout the day. 

 "There was a rumour going around that Ericsson is going to start a partnership with Sony Corporation ," said a Stockholm trader. "It came from a trader who does business with a big foreign institution." 

 An Ericsson spokeswoman said she could not comment on the rumour ahead of the company's results due out Friday. However a UK-based fund manager, who invests in Nordic shares, poured scorn on the rumour. 

 "I think there's some very spurious market rumours," he said. "According to one e-mail I saw, a plane-load of Japanese landed in Stockholm. Some people would like the rumours to be true." 

 Ericsson - which at its intra-day low was 4.41 percent down - closed up 4.4 percent or five crowns up in Stockholm. It was 10.1 percent up on Nasdaq at 1750 GMT when the tech-laden Nasdaq Composite index was down more than two percent. 

 "If it is true, it's great for Ericsson and there will be trouble for Nokia," the trader said. Nokia , the highly successful world's biggest mobile phone maker, closed down 2.8 percent. 

 Re-energised by the action, the Stoxx Nordic index which at one point in the session was around 1.5 percent in the red, staged a late rally to stand just 0.19 percent off at close, underperforming the FTSE Europtop 300 index by 0.26 percent. 

 Earlier the telecoms equipment maker - which is responsible for around 30 percent of Sweden's blue chip OMX index, helped drain the market of positive sentiment, as investors fretted about its fourth quarter results due out Friday. 

 "The market is generally nervous, with major results due to come out," said a fund manager. "You have seen a bit of a bounce back, but people are asking whether its for real," he said. 

 "There are a lot of fly-by-night companies in Scandinavia and when the bubble bursts its very painful and that's what they are going through at the moment." 

 Among other tech stocks, Icon MediaLab closed deep in the red, leading blue chip losers with a 23 percent loss, after it announced a fourth quarter operating loss and the departure of its chief executive. The Swedish Internet consultant at one point plunged 30 percent. 

 A UK-based fund manager who invests in Nordic equities said he remained sceptical about IT shares generally. "I am still not convinced the IT sector is the right sector," he said. "I am not very enthused. I don't think it's the time for bottom fishing." 

 Other IT shares were also down with Framfab shedding 7.4 percent. 

 Elisa led telecoms operators lower with a 12 percent fall as it continued to feel negative ripples after issuing a below-forecast 2000 earnings. 

 Sonera shed 1.9 percent, hit partly by an article in a Finnish daily saying the company's strategy is in disarray and a power vacuum plagues the management. 

 Defying the tech bears was small-cap IT manpower agency Tieto-X , which leaped 22.6 percent to 5.15 euros after giving a bullish outlook in its 1999-2000 earnings report. 

 Danish security and rescue service firm Group 4 Falck closed 5.2 percent up without dealers able to give any clear-cut reason. 

 Topping the best-performing blue chips is Hennes & Mauritz , which closed up 13.3 percent, extending earlier gains. The Swedish clothing retailer posted below-expectations 2000 results but excited the market with store expansion plans. 

 "It looks very good, a really positive surprise," said Ohman analyst Rolf Karp. 

 Investor fell 1.4 percent after the Swedish investment house got a downgrade by Morgan Stanley Dean Witter to "neutral" from "outperform." 

 Danish bank Jyske Bank tumbled 2.9 percent after reporting core earnings of 869 million crowns, below analysts' forecasts of just over 890 million crowns. 

 Norwegian oil and gas seismic specialist Petroleum Geo-Services rose 4.1 percent to 77 crowns. Traders said sentiment was helped by bargain-hunting after a steep fall in the wake of a profit-warning last week. 

 (Additional reporting by Helsinki newsroom, Copenhagen newsroom, Oslo newsroom) 

 (The Nordic stock report is a new service combining market reports on the Stockholm, Helsinki, Copenhagen and Oslo bourses. We would very much welcome any feedback or suggestions addressed to the contact details below). 

Document lba0000020010713dx1p0725n




 Energizer CEO: Comparisons Should Be Easier Now 

 By Desiree J. Hanford 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
309 words
25 January 2001
15:00
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 ST. LOUIS -(Dow Jones)- Energizer Holdings Inc.'s (ENR) sales comparisons should become easier in the coming quarters, Energizer Chief Executive J. Patrick Mulcahy said in a conference call Thursday after the company reported that sales fell in its first quarter. 

 Future comparisons will be easier because Y2K spending is over and retail inventory levels are more favorable, Mulcahy said. But competition remains intense and currency devaluations aren't helping Energizer's foreign businesses. 

 Earlier Thursday, the company said sales in the fiscal first quarter ended Dec. 31 fell to $558.7 million from $673.6 million a year earlier. Income fell to $54.2 million, or 57 cents a share, from $99.5 million, or $1.02 a share, on a pro-forma basis. On an historical basis, the battery company earned $1.07 a share, or $104.7 million a year ago. 

 Energizer was spun off from Ralston Purina Co. (RAL) in April. Analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial expected Energizer to earn 51 cents a share in the latest first quarter. 

 Energizer's sales declined in all geographic regions. In November, Energizer issued a profit and revenue warning, citing foreign exchange rates and inventory problems. 

 In the conference call, Mulcahy said Energizer's sales and income should be better in its second quarter. Energizer's sales were $335.4 million in the second quarter of last year, and it lost a penny a share from continuing operations. 


Mulcahy said the battery industry's historical growth rate should be
resuming about now and said Energizer has seen a lift in demand for its
products in California, but not one that's significant to its total
business.
   -By Desiree J. Hanford, Dow Jones Newswires; 314-588-8443;
      desiree.hanford@dowjones.com


Document dj00000020010711dx1p028v8




 Europe Stocks Review - Mostly up, but few trends in... - Part 2. 

489 words
25 January 2001
17:52
Futures World News
FWN
English
(c) Distributed via COMTEX News.

 Jan 25, 2001 (FWN Financial via COMTEX) - Italian shares were mixed Thursday with Banca di Roma SpA leading gainers and Seat Pagine Gialle SpA heading the losers. 

 Banca Roma, Italy's fifth-biggest bank by assets, gained 1.55% to 1.312 euros as investors expect its new chief executive Carlo Salvatori to spearhead the bank's growth and development strategy. 

 Edison SpA, Italy's second-largest electricity and natural gas company, climbed 0.84% to 10.65 euros as observers saw the increased likelihood of it buying Enel SpA's power company Eurogen SpA after a court late Wednesday rejected a request to block the sales procedure by rival Italpower SpA. 

 Pirelli SpA, Italy's biggest tire and power cables company, reached a record-high adding 0.97% to 3.97 euros. There is speculation as to how Pirelli will use its cash liquidity of about $5 billion. 

 Seat Pagine Gialle SpA, the country's biggest Internet company and publisher of yellow pages, fell 1.57% to 2.195 euros on concern its acquisition P of television broadcaster Telemontecarlo SpA (TMC) may become void if the Lazio administrative court (TAR) doesn't rule on a communications authority veto by Jan. 31. 

 THE NETHERLANDS 

 The Dutch blue-chip index closed virtually unchanged, but in negative terrain although gainers outnumbered loser 13 to 11. 

 Index heavyweight Royal Dutch rose 2.22% to 64.35 euros fo1/4lowing strong results recently from its U.S. peers. But chemicals stock Akzo Nobel fell in line with other chemical stocks in Europe. 

 Among financials ING continued higher after Wednesday's low at 75 euros and rose 0.89% in thick volumes to 82.83 euros. ING put its local real estate unit Westland/Utrecht with a loan book of 10.4 billion euros up for sale. Investment Bank ABN Amro, however, fell 0.83% to 27.32 euros in heavy volume while bancassureur Fortis fell 0.30% to 33.30 euros after Fed Chairman Greenspan failed to shed light on monetary policy at his Senate testimony. 

 ASM Lithography was the sole technology stock to close higher helped after Goldman Sachs reiterated its 'recommended list' rating on the stock and said it did not share widespread fears of a profit warning in 2001. ASML shares rose 0.26% to 31.36 euros. Telecom stock KPN fell 2.19% to 16.9 euros in thick volume, while Philips fell 2.72% to 42.51 euros. 

 Elsewhere, postal and express delivery firm TPG shares rose 3.11% to 28.20 euros after Lehman Brothers initiated coverage of the stock with a buy rating and a 32-euro price target. Fashion house Gucci rose 3.41% to 98.50 euros after Gucci shareholder PPR offered LVMH $100 a share to buy its stake in Gucci to settle the dispute between the companies. 

 (C) Copyright 2001 FWN 

 . 

Document fwn0000020010712dx1p005y1




 Late technology rally boosts broader market. 

 By (AFP). 
83 words
24 January 2001
Irish Times
IRTI
20
English
(c) 2001

 Dow Jones Industrial Average: 10,649 (+71.57) 

 Investors shrugged off a profit warning from Texas Instruments and pumped more money into the technology sector yesterday, lifting the Nasdaq and the broader market. 

 Dealers said stocks opened higher and spent most of the session in positive territory. They noted strong demand for technology stocks, and said investors were not especially upset by a new profit warning from Texas Instruments, although that stock posted losses. 

Document irti000020010712dx1o00kjj




 FFBN Health Care/Drug Wrap -2: Tuesday's Company News 

614 words
24 January 2001
13:02
Federal Filings Newswires
FF
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


ISSUER: FEDERAL FILINGS
SYMBOL: X.FFI
        COMPANY NEWS: The following is a summary of noteworthy news regarding
drug, device and health-care stocks:



                                                Net      Pct    EPS    EPS
                                       Close   Change   Change  01E    02E
MERCK & CO. INC. (MRK)                  79.56   -2.75   -3.3%   $2.89 $3.20
Merck reported earnings of 75 cents a share for the fourth quarter ended Dec.
31, versus 66 cents for the same period a year ago. The company cited income
growth that reflects strong worldwide sales volume gains, as well as
manufacturing productivity improvements.
Sales volume growth was driven by Merck's human health products, which
increased 11% in the the fourth quarter, and the Merck-Medco Managed Care
business.
Separately, the Food and Drug Administration warned Merck regarding improper
testing procedures at a manufacturing facility in Arecibo, Puerto Rico.
According to a warning letter posted on the agency's Web site Tuesday,
employees at the Merck, Sharp & Dohme Quimica de Puerto Rico plant didn't
properly test weighing stations and the strength of Fosamax tablets.
The company said it has resolved the issues with the agency.
                                                Net      Pct    EPS    EPS
                                       Close   Change   Change  01E    02E
CUBIST PHARMACEUTICALS INC. (CBST)      31.25   +4.69   +17.7%  -$1.26 -$2.03
NOVARTIS AG (NVS)                       41.56   +0.50    +1.2%  $1.65  $1.90
Cubist Pharmaceuticals achieved a second milestone in its three-year
collaboration with Novartis, which uses Cubist's technology.
Tuesday, Cubist said it will receive a milestone payment for the delivery of
a validated target and high-throughput screening assay for anti-infective
drug discovery.
The company's Validation In vivo of Targets and Assays for Antiinfectives, or
VITA, technology couples the validation of anti-infective targets during an
established infection in a mouse model with assay development to discover
novel drug leads that act on therapeutically relevant targets.
                                                Net      Pct    EPS    EPS
                                       Close   Change   Change  01E    02E
JOHNSON & JOHNSON (JNJ)                 92.69   -1.62   -1.7%   $3.40 $3.83
Johnson & Johnson's fourth quarter operating profits jumped more than 16%, as
the company posted a profit, excluding charges, of $924 million, or 65 cents
a share, up 16% when compared with 56 cents a share last year.
Revenue totaled $7.1 billion, up about 3.4% from a year ago, including the
negative impact of foreign currency.
Profits exceeded Wall Street's expectations of 64 cents a share, according to
First Call/Thomson Financial. The company attributed the better-than-expected
figure to a tighter grip on expenses and a lower-than-expected tax rate of
just over 18%, analysts said.
                                                Net      Pct    EPS    EPS
                                       Close   Change   Change  01E    02E
ALEXION PHARMACEUTICALS INC. (ALXN)     71.38   +14.25  +25.0%  -$1.73 -$1.84
PROCTOR & GAMBLE CO. (PG)               69.44   +0.31   +0.5%   $3.16  $3.48
Alexion Pharmaceuticals said preliminary results of a Phase IIb clinical
trial indicate its experimental heart drug, pexelizumab, cuts the combined
incidence of heart attack and death by 41% within 30 days of bypass surgery.
The C5 Inhibitor monoclonal antibody significantly reduced a composite
endpoint of death or myocardial infarction at 30 days in patients undergoing
coronary artery bypass graft surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass.
Tuesday, the company said the trial, conducted on 914 patients in 62 medical
centers across the U.S., could provide a new approach to limiting myocardial
damage during bypass surgery if a full analysis this spring confirms the
results.
The drug, a genetically engineered antibody jointly developed with Proctor &
Gamble's pharmaceuticals unit, is given intravenously before surgery.



08:02


Document ff00000020010711dx1o007cg




 AFTER THE BELL - Compaq up 15 percent, other high-techs rise. 

 By Haitham Haddadin 
624 words
23 January 2001
23:08
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 23 (Reuters) - The shares of Compaq Computer Corp. shot up 15 percen???ocks also gained in after-hours trading on Tuesday after the No. 1 PC company said its quarter Fating lowered expectations. 

 In other after-hours activity, Broadcom Corp.'s stock surged to $140-19/32 from its close at $133-7/16 on Nasdaq. The??? 

 Compaq shares jumped to $23.07 after-hours from their close at $20.05 on the New York Stock Exchange. In regular trading, Compaq had gained 23 cents from Monday's close. 

 Compaq's operating profit, excluding a charge, rose 55 percent in the latest quarter. That exceeded the bottom range of analysts' lowered expectations, which were released after Compaq issued a profit warning last month. 

 Total revenues rose to $11.53 billion, up 10 percent from $10.48 billion, slightly above the company's lowered guidance in December. 

 "It looks like they came in at the high end of revised estimates," said analyst David Bailey of Gerard Klauer Mattison. "Relatively speaking, it looks like a pretty solid quarter. Revenues are respectable in the circumstances." 

 Other computer makers saw their shares rise in after-hours activity, including Dell Computer, which rose to $27-1/2 from its Nasdaq close at $26-3/8 and Gateway, which advanced to $23.10 from a close on the NYSE at $22.15. 

 Apple Computer Inc., inched up to $21 versus its Nasdaq close at $20-1/2 and networking computer maker Sun Microsystems rose to $31-7/8 from $31-9/16. 

 Among the most actively traded issues after-hours, Exodus Communications advanced to $26-1/2 from $26; software giant Oracle Corp. fetched $32-7/16, up from $31-31/64; No. 1 chip maker Intel Corp., rose to $36-1/2 from $35-3/8, and Internet gear titan Cisco Systems last fetched $43-3/16, up from its close at $42-5/8. 

 Big advancers included New Era of Networks Inc., which rose to $5-1/4 from its close at $4-11/16. The business software integration company posted a fourth-quarter loss that was roughly in line with Wall Street expectations. But it also warned its first-quarter loss would be deeper than expected as it continues to suffer from slower corporate spending on technology. 

 Volume in after-hours trading was relatively high at about 68.8 million shares by 5:39 p.m. EST, surpassing Monday's total volume. 

 Among the laggards, Millennium Pharmaceuticals Inc. fell after-hours to $51-5/8 from its Nasdaq close at $52-9/16. The biotech firm reported a smaller-than-expected loss in the fourth quarter, compared with a slight profit in the same period last year. 

 Stocks rose in Tuesday's regular session, with the technology-laden Nasdaq market posting its strongest close in six weeks, as investors shrugged off a poor outlook from tech giant Texas Instruments Inc. and looked to more interest-rate cuts by the Federal Reserve to stop the U.S. economy from slowing further. 

 Despite Texas Instruments' woes, glowing earnings reports came during the session from a string of other high-tech companies, including top data storage firm EMC Corp. and computer maker NCR Corp. 

 The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index ended up 82.48 points, or 2.99 percent, at 2,840.39, after shaking off an early loss. The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average gained 71.57 points, or 0.68 percent, to finish at 10,649.81, and the broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index rose 17.50 points, or 1.30 percent, to close at 1,360.40. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1n070oh




 MARKET TALK: 2000 Trading Value On Nasdaq Was $20 Trillion 

1,352 words
23 January 2001
15:12
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:11 (Dow Jones) Yearly share volume on Nasdaq surged 62% in 2000
over 1999, to 442.7 billion shares. Average daily volume hit 1.75
billion, compared to 1.08 billion in 1999. Daily share volume topped two
billion shares on 47 occasions in 2000. The dollar value of trading on
Nasdaq in 2000 was a staggering $20.4 trillion, shattering 1999's level
of $11 trillion. Finally, the market value of the 4,800 companies listed
on Nasdaq was $3.6 trillion at the end of 2000, down 31% from the year
earlier. (TG)



10:05 (Dow Jones) Conoco Inc.'s (COCA, COCB) strong 4Q is just another
example of how well its management is developing the business, said UBS
Warburg's Matthew Warburton. The analyst, who upgraded Conoco to buy,
expects lower operational sensitivity to falling crude prices and its
lack of exposure to chemicals weakness to help the company outperform
its peer group in 2001 and beyond. (CCC)



9:59 (Dow Jones) FreeMarkets Inc. (FMKT) beat Wall Street estimates
for its top- and bottom-lines when it reported 4Q Monday. But its stock
is off 23% in the wake of ratings cuts from Merrill Lynch and Goldman
Sachs. The analysts are expressing concern about new customer growth and
light auction volume. Merrill says these may be indications of "limited
upside potential" until the economy improves. (RS)



9:55 (Dow Jones) Hemingway, who used to buy his clothes there, rolls
over in his grave every time a new Abercrombie & Fitch (ANF) catalog
comes out, but the kids seem to like ANF's modern incarnation as a
T-shirt and baggy pants retailer. Two nods from Street this a.m.:
Merrill's intermediate ranking goes to "buy" from "accumulate," and
Wells Fargo Van Kasper starts it at "strong buy." Solid spring expected
for the brand, with Merrill citing appeal of "preppy styling." No
explanation for how torn shorts is preppy, but the writer is showing his
age. ANF up 6%. (GC)



9:51 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps test support as the market touches the
overnight low of 1353. Floor technical analyst puts support at 1349.90
and 1345.50, Monday's low. Resistance is seen at 1361. If the market can
move above there, it could take out Monday's high of 1364.20. (DMC)



9:47 (Dow Jones) Lehman sticking to guns that Internet infrastructure
services stocks are close to bottom, and that investors have priced in
most if not all of downside in sector. Sees sustainable 3Q rally in
group, although that could conceivably begin sooner. Says Akamai (AKAM),
Digex (DIGX), and Exodus (EXDS) are three most attractive bets in
industry when it rebounds from current funk. (TG)



9:33 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps and Nasdaq start soft, as losses in
overnight trade spill over to day session. Focus for markets is on a
flurry of earnings reports and technical outlooks. Floor traders look
for quiet action as nothing  in the earnings releases is too big of a
surprise. (DMC)



9:28 (Dow Jones) Nearby Nymex crude seen opening 15-20 cents a barrel
lower in technical pullback ahead of API inventory report late Tuesday.
March crude, down 22c to $29.58 in overnight ACCESS trade, has support
at $29.40/bbl, while resistance is pegged at $30.57/bbl. (MSX)



9:26 (Dow Jones) S&P sees stability in telecom ratings by early 2002,
says Chris Legge, director for corporate ratings at the agency. "2000
was a very transitional year, unprecedented. We don't see that kind of
year in 2001." He adds: "We'd like to see stability very soon," but
early 2002 seems more likely. (RGB)



9:19 (Dow Jones) The Treasury market is slithering through a tight
range this morning, with little to hang its hat on, data wise. The
10-year is up 5/32 to yield 5.21%. Traders are on guard for corporate
supply and stock gains, the two factors most likely to send the market
lower this morning. (MSD)



9:11 (Dow Jones) Bank of Canada cited "abruptly" slowing U.S. economy
as prime motivator of its 25 bp cut in its Bank Rate to 5.75%. Though a
surprise to some, BOC cut was well factored into market psychology.
Little immediate impact on USD/CAD, which continues choppy trade in
C$1.5070 area, looking to return to Monday highs around C$1.5120. (PE)



9:05 (Dow Jones) Merck & Co. (MRK) posted earnings of 75 cents a
share, in line with consensus estimates on sales of $11.47 billion. The
company's five main growth drivers - Zocor, Singulair, Fosamax, Vioxx,
and Cozaar/Hyzaar - continued to fuel sales, accounting for 61% in the
fourth quarter. Analysts quickly noted they were pleased with the
figures. The conference call is set to begin at 9:00 a.m. ET. (BMM)



9:01 (Dow Jones) The BTM/UBSW weekly chain store sales index dropped
0.7% from the week before, on a seasonally-adjusted comparable store
basis, as winter storms in the midwest and northeast impaired Saturday
shopping. (FL)



9:00 (Dow Jones) Merrill says it sees nothing in Texas Instruments'
(TXN) numbers that isn't already built into stock price. That said, the
firm cuts price target to $75 from $105, "simply to reflect more
realistic expectations." Cuts FY01 EPS view to $1.11 from $1.40, and
initiates FY02 view of $1.45. Maintains buy rating. (TG)



8:53 (Dow Jones) Prudential sees upside earnings from both Maxtor
(MXTR) and Western Digital (WDC) when the companies report next week.
Firm cites favorable industry pricing conditions prevalent in hard disk
drive industry in 4Q. Prudential also continues to find industry trends
encouraging. (TG)



8:46 (Dow Jones) The German Industry Federation forecasts German real
GDP growth of 2.50%-2.75% in 2001 after 3.1% growth in 2000. "Business
sentiment has cooled down considerably," the group says, but adds the
economic "dip" could be overcome by end of year. (JMS)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Here's how Kent Engelke, of Anderson & Strudwick,
sees stocks reacting to next week's FOMC meeting: a 25-basis-point cut
and the market could erase all of its January gains, while a
50-basis-point ease could result in a 50% retracement of that gain, via
normal profit taking. Many are playing a dangerous game, he says, hoping
profits will rebound in the 3Q. Ultimately, though, he can't justify
going against Fed policy and its historical implications, despite his
ongoing concerns about Nasdaq's valuation. (TG)



8:31 (Dow Jones) Treasurys are narrowly mixed soon after the New York
opening, with the 10-year up 1/32 to yield 5.22%. After Monday's
steepening, more could be on tap today. However, it's a decidedly light
data release day, and that's likely to put the focus on stocks, and
leave the market prone to trade in a range. (MSD)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Investors will spend part of Tuesday morning taking
in a ton of big profit reports, some of which look pretty good. EMC,
Merrill Lynch (MER), and Sunoco (SUN) are among the companies posting
better-than-expected results. The earnings shortfall from Texas
Instruments (TXN) last night, along with its weak 1Q outlook, apparently
is being treated in the same fashion as Dell's (DELL) warning of Monday.
That is, "it's already priced in." TI shares are a little weaker in
pre-market trade, but the overall tech group doesn't appear to be in too
bad of shape. Meanwhile, Wall Street will get a look at chain-store
sales later this morning, but Thursday is the big day on the data front,
with the 4Q employment cost index on tap, along with a speech from Fed
chief Alan Greenspan. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1n0268n




 MARKET TALK: After Strong 4Q, UBS Says Kudos To Conoco 

1,256 words
23 January 2001
15:04
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:05 (Dow Jones) Conoco Inc.'s (COCA, COCB) strong 4Q is just another
example of how well its management is developing the business, said UBS
Warburg's Matthew Warburton. The analyst, who upgraded Conoco to buy,
expects lower operational sensitivity to falling crude prices and its
lack of exposure to chemicals weakness to help the company outperform
its peer group in 2001 and beyond. (CCC)



9:59 (Dow Jones) FreeMarkets Inc. (FMKT) beat Wall Street estimates
for its top- and bottom-lines when it reported 4Q Monday. But its stock
is off 23% in the wake of ratings cuts from Merrill Lynch and Goldman
Sachs. The analysts are expressing concern about new customer growth and
light auction volume. Merrill says these may be indications of "limited
upside potential" until the economy improves. (RS)



9:55 (Dow Jones) Hemingway, who used to buy his clothes there, rolls
over in his grave every time a new Abercrombie & Fitch (ANF) catalog
comes out, but the kids seem to like ANF's modern incarnation as a
T-shirt and baggy pants retailer. Two nods from Street this a.m.:
Merrill's intermediate ranking goes to "buy" from "accumulate," and
Wells Fargo Van Kasper starts it at "strong buy." Solid spring expected
for the brand, with Merrill citing appeal of "preppy styling." No
explanation for how torn shorts is preppy, but the writer is showing his
age. ANF up 6%. (GC)



9:51 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps test support as the market touches the
overnight low of 1353. Floor technical analyst puts support at 1349.90
and 1345.50, Monday's low. Resistance is seen at 1361. If the market can
move above there, it could take out Monday's high of 1364.20. (DMC)



9:47 (Dow Jones) Lehman sticking to guns that Internet infrastructure
services stocks are close to bottom, and that investors have priced in
most if not all of downside in sector. Sees sustainable 3Q rally in
group, although that could conceivably begin sooner. Says Akamai (AKAM),
Digex (DIGX), and Exodus (EXDS) are three most attractive bets in
industry when it rebounds from current funk. (TG)



9:33 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps and Nasdaq start soft, as losses in
overnight trade spill over to day session. Focus for markets is on a
flurry of earnings reports and technical outlooks. Floor traders look
for quiet action as nothing  in the earnings releases is too big of a
surprise. (DMC)



9:28 (Dow Jones) Nearby Nymex crude seen opening 15-20 cents a barrel
lower in technical pullback ahead of API inventory report late Tuesday.
March crude, down 22c to $29.58 in overnight ACCESS trade, has support
at $29.40/bbl, while resistance is pegged at $30.57/bbl. (MSX)



9:26 (Dow Jones) S&P sees stability in telecom ratings by early 2002,
says Chris Legge, director for corporate ratings at the agency. "2000
was a very transitional year, unprecedented. We don't see that kind of
year in 2001." He adds: "We'd like to see stability very soon," but
early 2002 seems more likely. (RGB)



9:19 (Dow Jones) The Treasury market is slithering through a tight
range this morning, with little to hang its hat on, data wise. The
10-year is up 5/32 to yield 5.21%. Traders are on guard for corporate
supply and stock gains, the two factors most likely to send the market
lower this morning. (MSD)



9:11 (Dow Jones) Bank of Canada cited "abruptly" slowing U.S. economy
as prime motivator of its 25 bp cut in its Bank Rate to 5.75%. Though a
surprise to some, BOC cut was well factored into market psychology.
Little immediate impact on USD/CAD, which continues choppy trade in
C$1.5070 area, looking to return to Monday highs around C$1.5120. (PE)



9:05 (Dow Jones) Merck & Co. (MRK) posted earnings of 75 cents a
share, in line with consensus estimates on sales of $11.47 billion. The
company's five main growth drivers - Zocor, Singulair, Fosamax, Vioxx,
and Cozaar/Hyzaar - continued to fuel sales, accounting for 61% in the
fourth quarter. Analysts quickly noted they were pleased with the
figures. The conference call is set to begin at 9:00 a.m. ET. (BMM)



9:01 (Dow Jones) The BTM/UBSW weekly chain store sales index dropped
0.7% from the week before, on a seasonally-adjusted comparable store
basis, as winter storms in the midwest and northeast impaired Saturday
shopping. (FL)



9:00 (Dow Jones) Merrill says it sees nothing in Texas Instruments'
(TXN) numbers that isn't already built into stock price. That said, the
firm cuts price target to $75 from $105, "simply to reflect more
realistic expectations." Cuts FY01 EPS view to $1.11 from $1.40, and
initiates FY02 view of $1.45. Maintains buy rating. (TG)



8:53 (Dow Jones) Prudential sees upside earnings from both Maxtor
(MXTR) and Western Digital (WDC) when the companies report next week.
Firm cites favorable industry pricing conditions prevalent in hard disk
drive industry in 4Q. Prudential also continues to find industry trends
encouraging. (TG)



8:46 (Dow Jones) The German Industry Federation forecasts German real
GDP growth of 2.50%-2.75% in 2001 after 3.1% growth in 2000. "Business
sentiment has cooled down considerably," the group says, but adds the
economic "dip" could be overcome by end of year. (JMS)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Here's how Kent Engelke, of Anderson & Strudwick,
sees stocks reacting to next week's FOMC meeting: a 25-basis-point cut
and the market could erase all of its January gains, while a
50-basis-point ease could result in a 50% retracement of that gain, via
normal profit taking. Many are playing a dangerous game, he says, hoping
profits will rebound in the 3Q. Ultimately, though, he can't justify
going against Fed policy and its historical implications, despite his
ongoing concerns about Nasdaq's valuation. (TG)



8:31 (Dow Jones) Treasurys are narrowly mixed soon after the New York
opening, with the 10-year up 1/32 to yield 5.22%. After Monday's
steepening, more could be on tap today. However, it's a decidedly light
data release day, and that's likely to put the focus on stocks, and
leave the market prone to trade in a range. (MSD)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Investors will spend part of Tuesday morning taking
in a ton of big profit reports, some of which look pretty good. EMC,
Merrill Lynch (MER), and Sunoco (SUN) are among the companies posting
better-than-expected results. The earnings shortfall from Texas
Instruments (TXN) last night, along with its weak 1Q outlook, apparently
is being treated in the same fashion as Dell's (DELL) warning of Monday.
That is, "it's already priced in." TI shares are a little weaker in
pre-market trade, but the overall tech group doesn't appear to be in too
bad of shape. Meanwhile, Wall Street will get a look at chain-store
sales later this morning, but Thursday is the big day on the data front,
with the 4Q employment cost index on tap, along with a speech from Fed
chief Alan Greenspan. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1n02689




 MARKET TALK: Merrill Sees Limited Upside At FreeMarkets 

1,188 words
23 January 2001
15:00
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



9:59 (Dow Jones) FreeMarkets Inc. (FMKT) beat Wall Street estimates
for its top- and bottom-lines when it reported 4Q Monday. But its stock
is off 23% in the wake of ratings cuts from Merrill Lynch and Goldman
Sachs. The analysts are expressing concern about new customer growth and
light auction volume. Merrill says these may be indications of "limited
upside potential" until the economy improves. (RS)



9:55 (Dow Jones) Hemingway, who used to buy his clothes there, rolls
over in his grave every time a new Abercrombie & Fitch (ANF) catalog
comes out, but the kids seem to like ANF's modern incarnation as a
T-shirt and baggy pants retailer. Two nods from Street this a.m.:
Merrill's intermediate ranking goes to "buy" from "accumulate," and
Wells Fargo Van Kasper starts it at "strong buy." Solid spring expected
for the brand, with Merrill citing appeal of "preppy styling." No
explanation for how torn shorts is preppy, but the writer is showing his
age. ANF up 6%. (GC)



9:51 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps test support as the market touches the
overnight low of 1353. Floor technical analyst puts support at 1349.90
and 1345.50, Monday's low. Resistance is seen at 1361. If the market can
move above there, it could take out Monday's high of 1364.20. (DMC)



9:47 (Dow Jones) Lehman sticking to guns that Internet infrastructure
services stocks are close to bottom, and that investors have priced in
most if not all of downside in sector. Sees sustainable 3Q rally in
group, although that could conceivably begin sooner. Says Akamai (AKAM),
Digex (DIGX), and Exodus (EXDS) are three most attractive bets in
industry when it rebounds from current funk. (TG)



9:33 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps and Nasdaq start soft, as losses in
overnight trade spill over to day session. Focus for markets is on a
flurry of earnings reports and technical outlooks. Floor traders look
for quiet action as nothing  in the earnings releases is too big of a
surprise. (DMC)



9:28 (Dow Jones) Nearby Nymex crude seen opening 15-20 cents a barrel
lower in technical pullback ahead of API inventory report late Tuesday.
March crude, down 22c to $29.58 in overnight ACCESS trade, has support
at $29.40/bbl, while resistance is pegged at $30.57/bbl. (MSX)



9:26 (Dow Jones) S&P sees stability in telecom ratings by early 2002,
says Chris Legge, director for corporate ratings at the agency. "2000
was a very transitional year, unprecedented. We don't see that kind of
year in 2001." He adds: "We'd like to see stability very soon," but
early 2002 seems more likely. (RGB)



9:19 (Dow Jones) The Treasury market is slithering through a tight
range this morning, with little to hang its hat on, data wise. The
10-year is up 5/32 to yield 5.21%. Traders are on guard for corporate
supply and stock gains, the two factors most likely to send the market
lower this morning. (MSD)



9:11 (Dow Jones) Bank of Canada cited "abruptly" slowing U.S. economy
as prime motivator of its 25 bp cut in its Bank Rate to 5.75%. Though a
surprise to some, BOC cut was well factored into market psychology.
Little immediate impact on USD/CAD, which continues choppy trade in
C$1.5070 area, looking to return to Monday highs around C$1.5120. (PE)



9:05 (Dow Jones) Merck & Co. (MRK) posted earnings of 75 cents a
share, in line with consensus estimates on sales of $11.47 billion. The
company's five main growth drivers - Zocor, Singulair, Fosamax, Vioxx,
and Cozaar/Hyzaar - continued to fuel sales, accounting for 61% in the
fourth quarter. Analysts quickly noted they were pleased with the
figures. The conference call is set to begin at 9:00 a.m. ET. (BMM)



9:01 (Dow Jones) The BTM/UBSW weekly chain store sales index dropped
0.7% from the week before, on a seasonally-adjusted comparable store
basis, as winter storms in the midwest and northeast impaired Saturday
shopping. (FL)



9:00 (Dow Jones) Merrill says it sees nothing in Texas Instruments'
(TXN) numbers that isn't already built into stock price. That said, the
firm cuts price target to $75 from $105, "simply to reflect more
realistic expectations." Cuts FY01 EPS view to $1.11 from $1.40, and
initiates FY02 view of $1.45. Maintains buy rating. (TG)



8:53 (Dow Jones) Prudential sees upside earnings from both Maxtor
(MXTR) and Western Digital (WDC) when the companies report next week.
Firm cites favorable industry pricing conditions prevalent in hard disk
drive industry in 4Q. Prudential also continues to find industry trends
encouraging. (TG)



8:46 (Dow Jones) The German Industry Federation forecasts German real
GDP growth of 2.50%-2.75% in 2001 after 3.1% growth in 2000. "Business
sentiment has cooled down considerably," the group says, but adds the
economic "dip" could be overcome by end of year. (JMS)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Here's how Kent Engelke, of Anderson & Strudwick,
sees stocks reacting to next week's FOMC meeting: a 25-basis-point cut
and the market could erase all of its January gains, while a
50-basis-point ease could result in a 50% retracement of that gain, via
normal profit taking. Many are playing a dangerous game, he says, hoping
profits will rebound in the 3Q. Ultimately, though, he can't justify
going against Fed policy and its historical implications, despite his
ongoing concerns about Nasdaq's valuation. (TG)



8:31 (Dow Jones) Treasurys are narrowly mixed soon after the New York
opening, with the 10-year up 1/32 to yield 5.22%. After Monday's
steepening, more could be on tap today. However, it's a decidedly light
data release day, and that's likely to put the focus on stocks, and
leave the market prone to trade in a range. (MSD)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Investors will spend part of Tuesday morning taking
in a ton of big profit reports, some of which look pretty good. EMC,
Merrill Lynch (MER), and Sunoco (SUN) are among the companies posting
better-than-expected results. The earnings shortfall from Texas
Instruments (TXN) last night, along with its weak 1Q outlook, apparently
is being treated in the same fashion as Dell's (DELL) warning of Monday.
That is, "it's already priced in." TI shares are a little weaker in
pre-market trade, but the overall tech group doesn't appear to be in too
bad of shape. Meanwhile, Wall Street will get a look at chain-store
sales later this morning, but Thursday is the big day on the data front,
with the 4Q employment cost index on tap, along with a speech from Fed
chief Alan Greenspan. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1n0267j




 MARKET TALK: Downside Priced In Internet Infrastructure 

959 words
23 January 2001
14:49
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



9:47 (Dow Jones) Lehman sticking to guns that Internet infrastructure
services stocks are close to bottom, and that investors have priced in
most if not all of downside in sector. Sees sustainable 3Q rally in
group, although that could conceivably begin sooner. Says Akamai (AKAM),
Digex (DIGX), and Exodus (EXDS) are three most attractive bets in
industry when it rebounds from current funk. (TG)



9:33 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps and Nasdaq start soft, as losses in
overnight trade spill over to day session. Focus for markets is on a
flurry of earnings reports and technical outlooks. Floor traders look
for quiet action as nothing  in the earnings releases is too big of a
surprise. (DMC)



9:28 (Dow Jones) Nearby Nymex crude seen opening 15-20 cents a barrel
lower in technical pullback ahead of API inventory report late Tuesday.
March crude, down 22c to $29.58 in overnight ACCESS trade, has support
at $29.40/bbl, while resistance is pegged at $30.57/bbl. (MSX)



9:26 (Dow Jones) S&P sees stability in telecom ratings by early 2002,
says Chris Legge, director for corporate ratings at the agency. "2000
was a very transitional year, unprecedented. We don't see that kind of
year in 2001." He adds: "We'd like to see stability very soon," but
early 2002 seems more likely. (RGB)



9:19 (Dow Jones) The Treasury market is slithering through a tight
range this morning, with little to hang its hat on, data wise. The
10-year is up 5/32 to yield 5.21%. Traders are on guard for corporate
supply and stock gains, the two factors most likely to send the market
lower this morning. (MSD)



9:11 (Dow Jones) Bank of Canada cited "abruptly" slowing U.S. economy
as prime motivator of its 25 bp cut in its Bank Rate to 5.75%. Though a
surprise to some, BOC cut was well factored into market psychology.
Little immediate impact on USD/CAD, which continues choppy trade in
C$1.5070 area, looking to return to Monday highs around C$1.5120. (PE)



9:05 (Dow Jones) Merck & Co. (MRK) posted earnings of 75 cents a
share, in line with consensus estimates on sales of $11.47 billion. The
company's five main growth drivers - Zocor, Singulair, Fosamax, Vioxx,
and Cozaar/Hyzaar - continued to fuel sales, accounting for 61% in the
fourth quarter. Analysts quickly noted they were pleased with the
figures. The conference call is set to begin at 9:00 a.m. ET. (BMM)



9:01 (Dow Jones) The BTM/UBSW weekly chain store sales index dropped
0.7% from the week before, on a seasonally-adjusted comparable store
basis, as winter storms in the midwest and northeast impaired Saturday
shopping. (FL)



9:00 (Dow Jones) Merrill says it sees nothing in Texas Instruments'
(TXN) numbers that isn't already built into stock price. That said, the
firm cuts price target to $75 from $105, "simply to reflect more
realistic expectations." Cuts FY01 EPS view to $1.11 from $1.40, and
initiates FY02 view of $1.45. Maintains buy rating. (TG)



8:53 (Dow Jones) Prudential sees upside earnings from both Maxtor
(MXTR) and Western Digital (WDC) when the companies report next week.
Firm cites favorable industry pricing conditions prevalent in hard disk
drive industry in 4Q. Prudential also continues to find industry trends
encouraging. (TG)



8:46 (Dow Jones) The German Industry Federation forecasts German real
GDP growth of 2.50%-2.75% in 2001 after 3.1% growth in 2000. "Business
sentiment has cooled down considerably," the group says, but adds the
economic "dip" could be overcome by end of year. (JMS)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Here's how Kent Engelke, of Anderson & Strudwick,
sees stocks reacting to next week's FOMC meeting: a 25-basis-point cut
and the market could erase all of its January gains, while a
50-basis-point ease could result in a 50% retracement of that gain, via
normal profit taking. Many are playing a dangerous game, he says, hoping
profits will rebound in the 3Q. Ultimately, though, he can't justify
going against Fed policy and its historical implications, despite his
ongoing concerns about Nasdaq's valuation. (TG)



8:31 (Dow Jones) Treasurys are narrowly mixed soon after the New York
opening, with the 10-year up 1/32 to yield 5.22%. After Monday's
steepening, more could be on tap today. However, it's a decidedly light
data release day, and that's likely to put the focus on stocks, and
leave the market prone to trade in a range. (MSD)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Investors will spend part of Tuesday morning taking
in a ton of big profit reports, some of which look pretty good. EMC,
Merrill Lynch (MER), and Sunoco (SUN) are among the companies posting
better-than-expected results. The earnings shortfall from Texas
Instruments (TXN) last night, along with its weak 1Q outlook, apparently
is being treated in the same fashion as Dell's (DELL) warning of Monday.
That is, "it's already priced in." TI shares are a little weaker in
pre-market trade, but the overall tech group doesn't appear to be in too
bad of shape. Meanwhile, Wall Street will get a look at chain-store
sales later this morning, but Thursday is the big day on the data front,
with the 4Q employment cost index on tap, along with a speech from Fed
chief Alan Greenspan. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1n0266i




 MARKET TALK: Nymex Crude Seen Opening Lower 

840 words
23 January 2001
14:28
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



9:28 (Dow Jones) Nearby Nymex crude seen opening 15-20 cents a barrel
lower in technical pullback ahead of API inventory report late Tuesday.
March crude, down 22c to $29.58 in overnight ACCESS trade, has support
at $29.40/bbl, while resistance is pegged at $30.57/bbl. (MSX)



9:26 (Dow Jones) S&P sees stability in telecom ratings by early 2002,
says Chris Legge, director for corporate ratings at the agency. "2000
was a very transitional year, unprecedented. We don't see that kind of
year in 2001." He adds: "We'd like to see stability very soon," but
early 2002 seems more likely. (RGB)



9:19 (Dow Jones) The Treasury market is slithering through a tight
range this morning, with little to hang its hat on, data wise. The
10-year is up 5/32 to yield 5.21%. Traders are on guard for corporate
supply and stock gains, the two factors most likely to send the market
lower this morning. (MSD)



9:11 (Dow Jones) Bank of Canada cited "abruptly" slowing U.S. economy
as prime motivator of its 25 bp cut in its Bank Rate to 5.75%. Though a
surprise to some, BOC cut was well factored into market psychology.
Little immediate impact on USD/CAD, which continues choppy trade in
C$1.5070 area, looking to return to Monday highs around C$1.5120. (PE)



9:05 (Dow Jones) Merck & Co. (MRK) posted earnings of 75 cents a
share, in line with consensus estimates on sales of $11.47 billion. The
company's five main growth drivers - Zocor, Singulair, Fosamax, Vioxx,
and Cozaar/Hyzaar - continued to fuel sales, accounting for 61% in the
fourth quarter. Analysts quickly noted they were pleased with the
figures. The conference call is set to begin at 9:00 a.m. ET. (BMM)



9:01 (Dow Jones) The BTM/UBSW weekly chain store sales index dropped
0.7% from the week before, on a seasonally-adjusted comparable store
basis, as winter storms in the midwest and northeast impaired Saturday
shopping. (FL)



9:00 (Dow Jones) Merrill says it sees nothing in Texas Instruments'
(TXN) numbers that isn't already built into stock price. That said, the
firm cuts price target to $75 from $105, "simply to reflect more
realistic expectations." Cuts FY01 EPS view to $1.11 from $1.40, and
initiates FY02 view of $1.45. Maintains buy rating. (TG)



8:53 (Dow Jones) Prudential sees upside earnings from both Maxtor
(MXTR) and Western Digital (WDC) when the companies report next week.
Firm cites favorable industry pricing conditions prevalent in hard disk
drive industry in 4Q. Prudential also continues to find industry trends
encouraging. (TG)



8:46 (Dow Jones) The German Industry Federation forecasts German real
GDP growth of 2.50%-2.75% in 2001 after 3.1% growth in 2000. "Business
sentiment has cooled down considerably," the group says, but adds the
economic "dip" could be overcome by end of year. (JMS)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Here's how Kent Engelke, of Anderson & Strudwick,
sees stocks reacting to next week's FOMC meeting: a 25-basis-point cut
and the market could erase all of its January gains, while a
50-basis-point ease could result in a 50% retracement of that gain, via
normal profit taking. Many are playing a dangerous game, he says, hoping
profits will rebound in the 3Q. Ultimately, though, he can't justify
going against Fed policy and its historical implications, despite his
ongoing concerns about Nasdaq's valuation. (TG)



8:31 (Dow Jones) Treasurys are narrowly mixed soon after the New York
opening, with the 10-year up 1/32 to yield 5.22%. After Monday's
steepening, more could be on tap today. However, it's a decidedly light
data release day, and that's likely to put the focus on stocks, and
leave the market prone to trade in a range. (MSD)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Investors will spend part of Tuesday morning taking
in a ton of big profit reports, some of which look pretty good. EMC,
Merrill Lynch (MER), and Sunoco (SUN) are among the companies posting
better-than-expected results. The earnings shortfall from Texas
Instruments (TXN) last night, along with its weak 1Q outlook, apparently
is being treated in the same fashion as Dell's (DELL) warning of Monday.
That is, "it's already priced in." TI shares are a little weaker in
pre-market trade, but the overall tech group doesn't appear to be in too
bad of shape. Meanwhile, Wall Street will get a look at chain-store
sales later this morning, but Thursday is the big day on the data front,
with the 4Q employment cost index on tap, along with a speech from Fed
chief Alan Greenspan. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1n0265q




 MARKET TALK: Minimal Movement In Bond Market 

730 words
23 January 2001
14:19
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



9:19 (Dow Jones) The Treasury market is slithering through a tight
range this morning, with little to hang its hat on, data wise. The
10-year is up 5/32 to yield 5.21%. Traders are on guard for corporate
supply and stock gains, the two factors most likely to send the market
lower this morning. (MSD)



9:11 (Dow Jones) Bank of Canada cited "abruptly" slowing U.S. economy
as prime motivator of its 25 bp cut in its Bank Rate to 5.75%. Though a
surprise to some, BOC cut was well factored into market psychology.
Little immediate impact on USD/CAD, which continues choppy trade in
C$1.5070 area, looking to return to Monday highs around C$1.5120. (PE)



9:05 (Dow Jones) Merck & Co. (MRK) posted earnings of 75 cents a
share, in line with consensus estimates on sales of $11.47 billion. The
company's five main growth drivers - Zocor, Singulair, Fosamax, Vioxx,
and Cozaar/Hyzaar - continued to fuel sales, accounting for 61% in the
fourth quarter. Analysts quickly noted they were pleased with the
figures. The conference call is set to begin at 9:00 a.m. ET. (BMM)



9:01 (Dow Jones) The BTM/UBSW weekly chain store sales index dropped
0.7% from the week before, on a seasonally-adjusted comparable store
basis, as winter storms in the midwest and northeast impaired Saturday
shopping. (FL)



9:00 (Dow Jones) Merrill says it sees nothing in Texas Instruments'
(TXN) numbers that isn't already built into stock price. That said, the
firm cuts price target to $75 from $105, "simply to reflect more
realistic expectations." Cuts FY01 EPS view to $1.11 from $1.40, and
initiates FY02 view of $1.45. Maintains buy rating. (TG)



8:53 (Dow Jones) Prudential sees upside earnings from both Maxtor
(MXTR) and Western Digital (WDC) when the companies report next week.
Firm cites favorable industry pricing conditions prevalent in hard disk
drive industry in 4Q. Prudential also continues to find industry trends
encouraging. (TG)



8:46 (Dow Jones) The German Industry Federation forecasts German real
GDP growth of 2.50%-2.75% in 2001 after 3.1% growth in 2000. "Business
sentiment has cooled down considerably," the group says, but adds the
economic "dip" could be overcome by end of year. (JMS)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Here's how Kent Engelke, of Anderson & Strudwick,
sees stocks reacting to next week's FOMC meeting: a 25-basis-point cut
and the market could erase all of its January gains, while a
50-basis-point ease could result in a 50% retracement of that gain, via
normal profit taking. Many are playing a dangerous game, he says, hoping
profits will rebound in the 3Q. Ultimately, though, he can't justify
going against Fed policy and its historical implications, despite his
ongoing concerns about Nasdaq's valuation. (TG)



8:31 (Dow Jones) Treasurys are narrowly mixed soon after the New York
opening, with the 10-year up 1/32 to yield 5.22%. After Monday's
steepening, more could be on tap today. However, it's a decidedly light
data release day, and that's likely to put the focus on stocks, and
leave the market prone to trade in a range. (MSD)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Investors will spend part of Tuesday morning taking
in a ton of big profit reports, some of which look pretty good. EMC,
Merrill Lynch (MER), and Sunoco (SUN) are among the companies posting
better-than-expected results. The earnings shortfall from Texas
Instruments (TXN) last night, along with its weak 1Q outlook, apparently
is being treated in the same fashion as Dell's (DELL) warning of Monday.
That is, "it's already priced in." TI shares are a little weaker in
pre-market trade, but the overall tech group doesn't appear to be in too
bad of shape. Meanwhile, Wall Street will get a look at chain-store
sales later this morning, but Thursday is the big day on the data front,
with the 4Q employment cost index on tap, along with a speech from Fed
chief Alan Greenspan. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1n02654




 MARKET TALK: Canada Cites Slowing U.S For Rate Cut 

675 words
23 January 2001
14:12
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



9:11 (Dow Jones) Bank of Canada cited "abruptly" slowing U.S. economy
as prime motivator of its 25 bp cut in its Bank Rate to 5.75%. Though a
surprise to some, BOC cut was well factored into market psychology.
Little immediate impact on USD/CAD, which continues choppy trade in
C$1.5070 area, looking to return to Monday highs around C$1.5120. (PE)



9:05 (Dow Jones) Merck & Co. (MRK) posted earnings of 75 cents a
share, in line with consensus estimates on sales of $11.47 billion. The
company's five main growth drivers - Zocor, Singulair, Fosamax, Vioxx,
and Cozaar/Hyzaar - continued to fuel sales, accounting for 61% in the
fourth quarter. Analysts quickly noted they were pleased with the
figures. The conference call is set to begin at 9:00 a.m. ET. (BMM)



9:01 (Dow Jones) The BTM/UBSW weekly chain store sales index dropped
0.7% from the week before, on a seasonally-adjusted comparable store
basis, as winter storms in the midwest and northeast impaired Saturday
shopping. (FL)



9:00 (Dow Jones) Merrill says it sees nothing in Texas Instruments'
(TXN) numbers that isn't already built into stock price. That said, the
firm cuts price target to $75 from $105, "simply to reflect more
realistic expectations." Cuts FY01 EPS view to $1.11 from $1.40, and
initiates FY02 view of $1.45. Maintains buy rating. (TG)



8:53 (Dow Jones) Prudential sees upside earnings from both Maxtor
(MXTR) and Western Digital (WDC) when the companies report next week.
Firm cites favorable industry pricing conditions prevalent in hard disk
drive industry in 4Q. Prudential also continues to find industry trends
encouraging. (TG)



8:46 (Dow Jones) The German Industry Federation forecasts German real
GDP growth of 2.50%-2.75% in 2001 after 3.1% growth in 2000. "Business
sentiment has cooled down considerably," the group says, but adds the
economic "dip" could be overcome by end of year. (JMS)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Here's how Kent Engelke, of Anderson & Strudwick,
sees stocks reacting to next week's FOMC meeting: a 25-basis-point cut
and the market could erase all of its January gains, while a
50-basis-point ease could result in a 50% retracement of that gain, via
normal profit taking. Many are playing a dangerous game, he says, hoping
profits will rebound in the 3Q. Ultimately, though, he can't justify
going against Fed policy and its historical implications, despite his
ongoing concerns about Nasdaq's valuation. (TG)



8:31 (Dow Jones) Treasurys are narrowly mixed soon after the New York
opening, with the 10-year up 1/32 to yield 5.22%. After Monday's
steepening, more could be on tap today. However, it's a decidedly light
data release day, and that's likely to put the focus on stocks, and
leave the market prone to trade in a range. (MSD)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Investors will spend part of Tuesday morning taking
in a ton of big profit reports, some of which look pretty good. EMC,
Merrill Lynch (MER), and Sunoco (SUN) are among the companies posting
better-than-expected results. The earnings shortfall from Texas
Instruments (TXN) last night, along with its weak 1Q outlook, apparently
is being treated in the same fashion as Dell's (DELL) warning of Monday.
That is, "it's already priced in." TI shares are a little weaker in
pre-market trade, but the overall tech group doesn't appear to be in too
bad of shape. Meanwhile, Wall Street will get a look at chain-store
sales later this morning, but Thursday is the big day on the data front,
with the 4Q employment cost index on tap, along with a speech from Fed
chief Alan Greenspan. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1n0264g




 MARKET TALK: Analysts' Early Read On Merck Is Positive 

607 words
23 January 2001
14:05
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



9:05 (Dow Jones) Merck & Co. (MRK) posted earnings of 75 cents a
share, in line with consensus estimates on sales of $11.47 billion. The
company's five main growth drivers - Zocor, Singulair, Fosamax, Vioxx,
and Cozaar/Hyzaar - continued to fuel sales, accounting for 61% in the
fourth quarter. Analysts quickly noted they were pleased with the
figures. The conference call is set to begin at 9:00 a.m. ET. (BMM)



9:01 (Dow Jones) The BTM/UBSW weekly chain store sales index dropped
0.7% from the week before, on a seasonally-adjusted comparable store
basis, as winter storms in the midwest and northeast impaired Saturday
shopping. (FL)



9:00 (Dow Jones) Merrill says it sees nothing in Texas Instruments'
(TXN) numbers that isn't already built into stock price. That said, the
firm cuts price target to $75 from $105, "simply to reflect more
realistic expectations." Cuts FY01 EPS view to $1.11 from $1.40, and
initiates FY02 view of $1.45. Maintains buy rating. (TG)



8:53 (Dow Jones) Prudential sees upside earnings from both Maxtor
(MXTR) and Western Digital (WDC) when the companies report next week.
Firm cites favorable industry pricing conditions prevalent in hard disk
drive industry in 4Q. Prudential also continues to find industry trends
encouraging. (TG)



8:46 (Dow Jones) The German Industry Federation forecasts German real
GDP growth of 2.50%-2.75% in 2001 after 3.1% growth in 2000. "Business
sentiment has cooled down considerably," the group says, but adds the
economic "dip" could be overcome by end of year. (JMS)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Here's how Kent Engelke, of Anderson & Strudwick,
sees stocks reacting to next week's FOMC meeting: a 25-basis-point cut
and the market could erase all of its January gains, while a
50-basis-point ease could result in a 50% retracement of that gain, via
normal profit taking. Many are playing a dangerous game, he says, hoping
profits will rebound in the 3Q. Ultimately, though, he can't justify
going against Fed policy and its historical implications, despite his
ongoing concerns about Nasdaq's valuation. (TG)



8:31 (Dow Jones) Treasurys are narrowly mixed soon after the New York
opening, with the 10-year up 1/32 to yield 5.22%. After Monday's
steepening, more could be on tap today. However, it's a decidedly light
data release day, and that's likely to put the focus on stocks, and
leave the market prone to trade in a range. (MSD)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Investors will spend part of Tuesday morning taking
in a ton of big profit reports, some of which look pretty good. EMC,
Merrill Lynch (MER), and Sunoco (SUN) are among the companies posting
better-than-expected results. The earnings shortfall from Texas
Instruments (TXN) last night, along with its weak 1Q outlook, apparently
is being treated in the same fashion as Dell's (DELL) warning of Monday.
That is, "it's already priced in." TI shares are a little weaker in
pre-market trade, but the overall tech group doesn't appear to be in too
bad of shape. Meanwhile, Wall Street will get a look at chain-store
sales later this morning, but Thursday is the big day on the data front,
with the 4Q employment cost index on tap, along with a speech from Fed
chief Alan Greenspan. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1n0263q




 MARKET TALK: Chain-Store Sales Fall On Weather Woes 

533 words
23 January 2001
14:03
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



9:01 (Dow Jones) The BTM/UBSW weekly chain store sales index dropped
0.7% from the week before, on a seasonally-adjusted comparable store
basis, as winter storms in the midwest and northeast impaired Saturday
shopping. (FL)



9:00 (Dow Jones) Merrill says it sees nothing in Texas Instruments'
(TXN) numbers that isn't already built into stock price. That said, the
firm cuts price target to $75 from $105, "simply to reflect more
realistic expectations." Cuts FY01 EPS view to $1.11 from $1.40, and
initiates FY02 view of $1.45. Maintains buy rating. (TG)



8:53 (Dow Jones) Prudential sees upside earnings from both Maxtor
(MXTR) and Western Digital (WDC) when the companies report next week.
Firm cites favorable industry pricing conditions prevalent in hard disk
drive industry in 4Q. Prudential also continues to find industry trends
encouraging. (TG)



8:46 (Dow Jones) The German Industry Federation forecasts German real
GDP growth of 2.50%-2.75% in 2001 after 3.1% growth in 2000. "Business
sentiment has cooled down considerably," the group says, but adds the
economic "dip" could be overcome by end of year. (JMS)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Here's how Kent Engelke, of Anderson & Strudwick,
sees stocks reacting to next week's FOMC meeting: a 25-basis-point cut
and the market could erase all of its January gains, while a
50-basis-point ease could result in a 50% retracement of that gain, via
normal profit taking. Many are playing a dangerous game, he says, hoping
profits will rebound in the 3Q. Ultimately, though, he can't justify
going against Fed policy and its historical implications, despite his
ongoing concerns about Nasdaq's valuation. (TG)



8:31 (Dow Jones) Treasurys are narrowly mixed soon after the New York
opening, with the 10-year up 1/32 to yield 5.22%. After Monday's
steepening, more could be on tap today. However, it's a decidedly light
data release day, and that's likely to put the focus on stocks, and
leave the market prone to trade in a range. (MSD)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Investors will spend part of Tuesday morning taking
in a ton of big profit reports, some of which look pretty good. EMC,
Merrill Lynch (MER), and Sunoco (SUN) are among the companies posting
better-than-expected results. The earnings shortfall from Texas
Instruments (TXN) last night, along with its weak 1Q outlook, apparently
is being treated in the same fashion as Dell's (DELL) warning of Monday.
That is, "it's already priced in." TI shares are a little weaker in
pre-market trade, but the overall tech group doesn't appear to be in too
bad of shape. Meanwhile, Wall Street will get a look at chain-store
sales later this morning, but Thursday is the big day on the data front,
with the 4Q employment cost index on tap, along with a speech from Fed
chief Alan Greenspan. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1n0263i




 MARKET TALK: Merrill Cuts TXN FY01 View, Price Target 

495 words
23 January 2001
14:01
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



9:00 (Dow Jones) Merrill says it sees nothing in Texas Instruments'
(TXN) numbers that isn't already built into stock price. That said, the
firm cuts price target to $75 from $105, "simply to reflect more
realistic expectations." Cuts FY01 EPS view to $1.11 from $1.40, and
initiates FY02 view of $1.45. Maintains buy rating. (TG)



8:53 (Dow Jones) Prudential sees upside earnings from both Maxtor
(MXTR) and Western Digital (WDC) when the companies report next week.
Firm cites favorable industry pricing conditions prevalent in hard disk
drive industry in 4Q. Prudential also continues to find industry trends
encouraging. (TG)



8:46 (Dow Jones) The German Industry Federation forecasts German real
GDP growth of 2.50%-2.75% in 2001 after 3.1% growth in 2000. "Business
sentiment has cooled down considerably," the group says, but adds the
economic "dip" could be overcome by end of year. (JMS)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Here's how Kent Engelke, of Anderson & Strudwick,
sees stocks reacting to next week's FOMC meeting: a 25-basis-point cut
and the market could erase all of its January gains, while a
50-basis-point ease could result in a 50% retracement of that gain, via
normal profit taking. Many are playing a dangerous game, he says, hoping
profits will rebound in the 3Q. Ultimately, though, he can't justify
going against Fed policy and its historical implications, despite his
ongoing concerns about Nasdaq's valuation. (TG)



8:31 (Dow Jones) Treasurys are narrowly mixed soon after the New York
opening, with the 10-year up 1/32 to yield 5.22%. After Monday's
steepening, more could be on tap today. However, it's a decidedly light
data release day, and that's likely to put the focus on stocks, and
leave the market prone to trade in a range. (MSD)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Investors will spend part of Tuesday morning taking
in a ton of big profit reports, some of which look pretty good. EMC,
Merrill Lynch (MER), and Sunoco (SUN) are among the companies posting
better-than-expected results. The earnings shortfall from Texas
Instruments (TXN) last night, along with its weak 1Q outlook, apparently
is being treated in the same fashion as Dell's (DELL) warning of Monday.
That is, "it's already priced in." TI shares are a little weaker in
pre-market trade, but the overall tech group doesn't appear to be in too
bad of shape. Meanwhile, Wall Street will get a look at chain-store
sales later this morning, but Thursday is the big day on the data front,
with the 4Q employment cost index on tap, along with a speech from Fed
chief Alan Greenspan. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1n02635




 MARKET TALK: Pru Sees Upside In Maxtor, Wstrn Digital EPS 

436 words
23 January 2001
13:54
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



8:53 (Dow Jones) Prudential sees upside earnings from both Maxtor
(MXTR) and Western Digital (WDC) when the companies report next week.
Firm cites favorable industry pricing conditions prevalent in hard disk
drive industry in 4Q. Prudential also continues to find industry trends
encouraging. (TG)



8:46 (Dow Jones) The German Industry Federation forecasts German real
GDP growth of 2.50%-2.75% in 2001 after 3.1% growth in 2000. "Business
sentiment has cooled down considerably," the group says, but adds the
economic "dip" could be overcome by end of year. (JMS)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Here's how Kent Engelke, of Anderson & Strudwick,
sees stocks reacting to next week's FOMC meeting: a 25-basis-point cut
and the market could erase all of its January gains, while a
50-basis-point ease could result in a 50% retracement of that gain, via
normal profit taking. Many are playing a dangerous game, he says, hoping
profits will rebound in the 3Q. Ultimately, though, he can't justify
going against Fed policy and its historical implications, despite his
ongoing concerns about Nasdaq's valuation. (TG)



8:31 (Dow Jones) Treasurys are narrowly mixed soon after the New York
opening, with the 10-year up 1/32 to yield 5.22%. After Monday's
steepening, more could be on tap today. However, it's a decidedly light
data release day, and that's likely to put the focus on stocks, and
leave the market prone to trade in a range. (MSD)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Investors will spend part of Tuesday morning taking
in a ton of big profit reports, some of which look pretty good. EMC,
Merrill Lynch (MER), and Sunoco (SUN) are among the companies posting
better-than-expected results. The earnings shortfall from Texas
Instruments (TXN) last night, along with its weak 1Q outlook, apparently
is being treated in the same fashion as Dell's (DELL) warning of Monday.
That is, "it's already priced in." TI shares are a little weaker in
pre-market trade, but the overall tech group doesn't appear to be in too
bad of shape. Meanwhile, Wall Street will get a look at chain-store
sales later this morning, but Thursday is the big day on the data front,
with the 4Q employment cost index on tap, along with a speech from Fed
chief Alan Greenspan. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1n0262j




 MARKET TALK: Germany's Economic Outlook Sounds Like Ours 

390 words
23 January 2001
13:46
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



8:46 (Dow Jones) The German Industry Federation forecasts German real
GDP growth of 2.50%-2.75% in 2001 after 3.1% growth in 2000. "Business
sentiment has cooled down considerably," the group says, but adds the
economic "dip" could be overcome by end of year. (JMS)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Here's how Kent Engelke, of Anderson & Strudwick,
sees stocks reacting to next week's FOMC meeting: a 25-basis-point cut
and the market could erase all of its January gains, while a
50-basis-point ease could result in a 50% retracement of that gain, via
normal profit taking. Many are playing a dangerous game, he says, hoping
profits will rebound in the 3Q. Ultimately, though, he can't justify
going against Fed policy and its historical implications, despite his
ongoing concerns about Nasdaq's valuation. (TG)



8:31 (Dow Jones) Treasurys are narrowly mixed soon after the New York
opening, with the 10-year up 1/32 to yield 5.22%. After Monday's
steepening, more could be on tap today. However, it's a decidedly light
data release day, and that's likely to put the focus on stocks, and
leave the market prone to trade in a range. (MSD)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Investors will spend part of Tuesday morning taking
in a ton of big profit reports, some of which look pretty good. EMC,
Merrill Lynch (MER), and Sunoco (SUN) are among the companies posting
better-than-expected results. The earnings shortfall from Texas
Instruments (TXN) last night, along with its weak 1Q outlook, apparently
is being treated in the same fashion as Dell's (DELL) warning of Monday.
That is, "it's already priced in." TI shares are a little weaker in
pre-market trade, but the overall tech group doesn't appear to be in too
bad of shape. Meanwhile, Wall Street will get a look at chain-store
sales later this morning, but Thursday is the big day on the data front,
with the 4Q employment cost index on tap, along with a speech from Fed
chief Alan Greenspan. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1n02623




 MARKET TALK: Profits May Be Taken On FOMC News 

342 words
23 January 2001
13:40
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



8:39 (Dow Jones) Here's how Kent Engelke, of Anderson & Strudwick,
sees stocks reacting to next week's FOMC meeting: a 25-basis-point cut
and the market could erase all of its January gains, while a
50-basis-point ease could result in a 50% retracement of that gain, via
normal profit taking. Many are playing a dangerous game, he says, hoping
profits will rebound in the 3Q. Ultimately, though, he can't justify
going against Fed policy and its historical implications, despite his
ongoing concerns about Nasdaq's valuation. (TG)



8:31 (Dow Jones) Treasurys are narrowly mixed soon after the New York
opening, with the 10-year up 1/32 to yield 5.22%. After Monday's
steepening, more could be on tap today. However, it's a decidedly light
data release day, and that's likely to put the focus on stocks, and
leave the market prone to trade in a range. (MSD)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Investors will spend part of Tuesday morning taking
in a ton of big profit reports, some of which look pretty good. EMC,
Merrill Lynch (MER), and Sunoco (SUN) are among the companies posting
better-than-expected results. The earnings shortfall from Texas
Instruments (TXN) last night, along with its weak 1Q outlook, apparently
is being treated in the same fashion as Dell's (DELL) warning of Monday.
That is, "it's already priced in." TI shares are a little weaker in
pre-market trade, but the overall tech group doesn't appear to be in too
bad of shape. Meanwhile, Wall Street will get a look at chain-store
sales later this morning, but Thursday is the big day on the data front,
with the 4Q employment cost index on tap, along with a speech from Fed
chief Alan Greenspan. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1n0261m




 MARKET TALK: Tsys Focus Likely To Be On Stocks 

248 words
23 January 2001
13:32
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



8:31 (Dow Jones) Treasurys are narrowly mixed soon after the New York
opening, with the 10-year up 1/32 to yield 5.22%. After Monday's
steepening, more could be on tap today. However, it's a decidedly light
data release day, and that's likely to put the focus on stocks, and
leave the market prone to trade in a range. (MSD)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Investors will spend part of Tuesday morning taking
in a ton of big profit reports, some of which look pretty good. EMC,
Merrill Lynch (MER), and Sunoco (SUN) are among the companies posting
better-than-expected results. The earnings shortfall from Texas
Instruments (TXN) last night, along with its weak 1Q outlook, apparently
is being treated in the same fashion as Dell's (DELL) warning of Monday.
That is, "it's already priced in." TI shares are a little weaker in
pre-market trade, but the overall tech group doesn't appear to be in too
bad of shape. Meanwhile, Wall Street will get a look at chain-store
sales later this morning, but Thursday is the big day on the data front,
with the 4Q employment cost index on tap, along with a speech from Fed
chief Alan Greenspan. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1n02613


Newscast: Business news and stock report   

350 words
23 January 2001
CBS News: The Early Show
CBST
English
(c) Copyright 2001, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

GRETCHEN CARR, anchor:   

Time now for this morning's MarketWatch with Alexis Christoforous. Good morning to you.   

ALEXIS CHRISTOFOROUS reporting:   

Good morning, Gretchen. Good morning, everyone.   

We are deep in the heart of earnings season on Wall Street, and some of the shakiest numbers have been coming from tech firms. The latest to weigh in:  Texas Instruments.

(Graphic on screen)   

CBS MarketWatch cbs.marketwatch.com   

Stocks to Watch   

Texas Instruments (TXN)   

CHRISTOFOROUS: The chip maker failed to meet estimates for the fourth quarter and warned about future sales.   

On the flip side, Computer Associates blew by Street forecasts, earning 42 cents a share.   

(Graphic on screen)   

CBS MarketWatch cbs.marketwatch.com   

Stocks To Watch   

Computer Associates (CA)   

CHRISTOFOROUS: On Wall Street, a profit warning from  Dell Computer did little damage.   

(Graphic on screen)   

CBS MarketWatch cbs.marketwatch.com   

Dow Jones Industrials   

10,578.24 down 9.35   

CHRISTOFOROUS: The Dow industrials finished a choppy trading day, down 9 points to 10,578.   

(Graphic on screen)   

CBS MarketWatch cbs.marketwatch.com   

NASDAQ   

2,757.91 down 12.47   

CHRISTOFOROUS: And the NASDAQ snapped a three-day winning streak, down 12.   

Not coming soon to a theater near you, first-run movies at 112 Loews Theatres. The company is closing 23 percent of its theaters around the country. Loews is a billion dollars in debt and faces possible bankruptcy.   

For more market action, head to cbs.marketwatch.com or AOL, keyword MarketWatch. Gretchen.   

CARR: All right. Thank you, Alexis. And that is the news this morning. Now here are Bryant and Jane.   

BRYANT GUMBEL (Co-host): Ladies, thanks so very much.   

JANE CLAYSON (Co-host): Thanks.   

GUMBEL: You remember where you were when the Challenger went down, right?   

CLAYSON: The moment, yes.   

GUMBEL: Most people do.   

CLAYSON: It's one of those--one of those times.   

GUMBEL: Yeah. We're going to look back at the Challenger shuttle disaster. We're also going to look at a potential cancer scare for kids. Twenty-two past the hour. You're watching THE EARLY SHOW on CBS.   

(Announcements)   

Document CBST000020070818dx1n007kh


Newscast: Business news and stock report   

511 words
23 January 2001
CBS News: Morning News
CBSM
English
(c) Copyright 2001, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

GRETCHEN CARR, anchor:   

On Wall Street, stocks fell modestly on profit taking. The Dow slipped 9 points on Monday, ending at 10,578.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Dow Jones Industrials   

10,578.24   

down 9.35   

Volume: 1,164,060,000   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

CARR: The NASDAQ lost 12 points, closing at 2,757.   

(Graphic on screen)   

NASDAQ   

2,757.91   

down 12.47   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

CARR: In Tokyo, the Nikkei index was down more than one-quarter of 1 percent overnight.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Tokyo Nikkei Average   

13,984.66   

down 47.76   

Change: down 0.34%   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

CARR: On the CBS MarketWatch, tech-sector profit worries keep investors off balance. Alexis Christoforous has more on that.   

ALEXIS CHRISTOFOROUS reporting:   

A profit warning from  Texas Instruments could put pressure on tech stocks today. After the closing bell, the largest maker of computer chips for cell phones said profit missed estimates by two cents a share.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Fourth Quarter Profit   

Texas Instruments

$0.31 Share vs. $0.33 Share   

CHRISTOFOROUS:  Texas Instruments also warned that sales in the next quarter will fall 10 percent.   

Also after the bell, Computer Associates posted profit of 42 cents a share, but that was enough to beat the Street by two cents.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Fourth Quarter Profit   

Computer Associates   

$0.42 Share vs. $0.40 Share   

CHRISTOFOROUS: A profit warning from  Dell Computer did little damage on Wall Street Monday. Shares of  Dell down just about 13 cents after the PC maker warned that fourth-quarter profit and sales will be hurt, again it's blaming weak demand. Now that sent some other PC makers, including  Apple Computer, lower. Apple finished the day down more than 1 percent to $19.25.   

A big bright spot, though, was  Amgen. This biotech giant jumped nearly 13 percent. It won a court ruling that allows it to block a rival from selling its own version of the number one selling anemia drug Epogen.   

Now among the Dow movers:  American Express. That company warned that profit for this year will be at the low end of estimates, it's blaming the slowing economy and weak financial markets.   

(Graphic on screen)   

American Express (AXP)   

Down 3.62 to 45   

CHRISTOFOROUS: But retail stocks were a bright spot, including Sears, the Gap and Target.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Retail Stocks   

Sears (S) Gap (GPS) Target (TGT)   

Up Up Up 2.92 3.25 1.81 to to to 36.60 29.25 34.56   

CHRISTOFOROUS: They got a lift after a  Goldman Sachs analyst put these stocks on Goldman's recommend list. He says consumer spending will likely pick up in the second half of the year thanks to lower interest rates.   

To track your stocks, just head to cbs.marketwatch.com or AOL, keyword MarketWatch. I'm Alexis Christoforous in New York.   

CARR: And straight ahead on the morning news, your Tuesday morning weather and in sports, Andre Agassi powers his way to the semifinals in the Australian Open.   

(Announcements)   

Document CBSM000020070818dx1n003qg




 Banking on revitalised sectors. 

453 words
23 January 2001
The Scotsman
SC
10
English
(c) 2001

 EUROPEAN shares rebounded from early declines following gains in the heavyweight banking and energy sectors and a positive start in the United States. 

 The Dow Jones Euro Stoxx Total Market Index, was up 0.67 at 351.27. The Dow Jones Euro Stoxx 50 Index was up 23.3 at 4743. 

 Technology and telecommunication stocks were weak in the morning, investors apparently nervous before earnings reports due out this week. 

 European banking stocks gained as a result of data from the US. 

 Energy stocks benefited from strong fourth quarter results from US stock Enron. TotalFinaElf was up 2.1 per cent and Royal Dutch/Shell was up 0.7 per cent. 

 FRANKFURT: Modest gains in German insurance stocks outweighed a four per cent slide in Deutsche Telekom and dragged an idle DAX higher. 

 Heavyweights re-insurer Munich Re and Allianz both rose two per cent, together making up over two-thirds of the slim DAX gain. 

 By late afternoon the DAX was 0.17 per cent higher, while the Nemax 50 index was down 0.49 per cent. 

 Deutsche Telekom, dropped 3.9 per cent ahead of its preliminary full-year results. Traders said investors in telecoms stocks Europe-wide had been unsettled by the cool reception given to France Telecom's discounted price-tag for its mobile phone company Orange. 

 A price at the low end of the announced range for Orange could force Telekom to price the upcoming float of its own cellphone businesses this year at steep discounts. 

 Shares in stricken Internet retailer Letsbuyit.com plummeted 39 per cent to a record low as the company raced against time to find four million euros to avoid bankruptcy by Thrusday afternoon. 

 A source close to the company Letsbuyit, whose debts are estimated at 20 million, had raised 2.5 million (#2.32 million) of the 4 million it needs to scrape together. 

 PARIS: Share prices ended slightly higher fighting off losses from France Telecom, which dipped on disappointment over the lower-than-foreseen valuation of its mobile phone unit Orange. 

 Defensive stocks in banking and retail sectors helped buck up the blue-chip CAC-40 index which closed 0.63 per cent higher at 5,882.76. 

 France Telecom ended down 1.1 per cent at 94, recovering from earlier losses that dragged it down to a session low of 91.30. 

 STOCKHOLM: Stalwart forestry, energy and shipping helped Nordic equities pare early losses, but were swamped by fallout on tech and telecom heavyweights from a profit warning by US computer giant Dell. Telecoms operators Elisa Communications and Tele1 Europe booked some of the worst bluechip losses as sector sentiment sagged on news of the Orange float. 

Document sc00000020010714dx1n00238




 DRAGON'S QUIET EXIT ON EARLY CLOSING DAY.. 

528 words
23 January 2001
The Evening Standard
NS
English
(c) 2001

 BY RAY HEATH  The Year of the Dragon made a muted exit in Asia as many markets closed early for the Lunar New Year holiday.The overnight weakness on Wall Street and Nasdaq, disappointing profits from Texas Instruments and another earnings warning from Dell Computer subdued technology stocks.The euphoria in the Philippines faded after Monday's record 17% gain as investors celebrated the passing of power from disgraced but unrepentant Joseph Estrada to Gloria Arroyo. As investors took stock of the hard road ahead for the economy and earnings, the Composite index fell 45.76 points to 1662.3.Politics were also a major influence in Japan, as yet another scandal hit the government of Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori and economics minister Fukushiro Nukaga resigned. 

  The Nikkei 225 fell 13963.08 69.34 points in morning trading, as profit-takers moved in on recently strong technology and internet stocks.The fall in Tokyo, which ended a seven-day run of gains, was led by chip-makers, hit by Texas Instrument's profit statement. Adventest, which produces testing equipment, fell by almost 2%. Dell's warning of slowing sales hurt Japanese computer makers Toshiba and Fujitsu. Hong Kong investors decided cash was the safe haven over the New Year holiday, and locked in recent profits on telecom and property stocks. The one-way trade pushed the Hang Seng index down 55.06 points to 16044.21. Mobile phone operators were hit by news that the Hong Kong government was planning to charge for renewing second-generation licences.Singapore investors were more interested in preparations for the New Year festival than chasing stocks, and in sluggish trading the Straits Times index finished a short trading day up 3.22 points at 1914.2.Technology stocks reacted badly to the pessimistic outlook from Texas Instruments and Dell Computer. Major chip-maker Chartered Semiconductor dived by 5% after analysts polled by Reuters were divided over the prospects for fourth quarter results at the end of the month. Bank shares underpinned the general market on light buying inspired by expectations of further interest-rate cuts.Bank and electronics stocks provided some power in a sluggish Thai market, which saw the SET index edge up 3.09 points to 322.18.Financial counters reassured by a pledge from new Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra that his populist policies would not lead to a surge in government debt.Profit-taking and a sharp overnight drop in the ADRs of Indonesia telephone operator PT Telekomunikasi pushed the Jakarta Composite index down 1.39 points to 416.51.Banking stocks provided some rare strength in Sydney as most stocks drifted on a lack of US inspiration.Prospects of lower interest rates and reliable earnings brought in buyers for Commonwealth Bank, Australia and New Zealand Banking Group and National Australia bank. Prices elsewhere were a wakened by a survey which showed that business confidence slumped in December as executives worried about oil prices, new taxes and the low Aussie dollar. At midday the All Ordinaries index was down 28 points at 3234.9. Malaysia, South Korea and Taiwan were closed. 

Document ns00000020010714dx1n001lz




 MARKET TALK: March S&Ps Testing Support At Overnight Low 

1,019 words
23 January 2001
14:51
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



9:51 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps test support as the market touches the
overnight low of 1353. Floor technical analyst puts support at 1349.90
and 1345.50, Monday's low. Resistance is seen at 1361. If the market can
move above there, it could take out Monday's high of 1364.20. (DMC)



9:47 (Dow Jones) Lehman sticking to guns that Internet infrastructure
services stocks are close to bottom, and that investors have priced in
most if not all of downside in sector. Sees sustainable 3Q rally in
group, although that could conceivably begin sooner. Says Akamai (AKAM),
Digex (DIGX), and Exodus (EXDS) are three most attractive bets in
industry when it rebounds from current funk. (TG)



9:33 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps and Nasdaq start soft, as losses in
overnight trade spill over to day session. Focus for markets is on a
flurry of earnings reports and technical outlooks. Floor traders look
for quiet action as nothing  in the earnings releases is too big of a
surprise. (DMC)



9:28 (Dow Jones) Nearby Nymex crude seen opening 15-20 cents a barrel
lower in technical pullback ahead of API inventory report late Tuesday.
March crude, down 22c to $29.58 in overnight ACCESS trade, has support
at $29.40/bbl, while resistance is pegged at $30.57/bbl. (MSX)



9:26 (Dow Jones) S&P sees stability in telecom ratings by early 2002,
says Chris Legge, director for corporate ratings at the agency. "2000
was a very transitional year, unprecedented. We don't see that kind of
year in 2001." He adds: "We'd like to see stability very soon," but
early 2002 seems more likely. (RGB)



9:19 (Dow Jones) The Treasury market is slithering through a tight
range this morning, with little to hang its hat on, data wise. The
10-year is up 5/32 to yield 5.21%. Traders are on guard for corporate
supply and stock gains, the two factors most likely to send the market
lower this morning. (MSD)



9:11 (Dow Jones) Bank of Canada cited "abruptly" slowing U.S. economy
as prime motivator of its 25 bp cut in its Bank Rate to 5.75%. Though a
surprise to some, BOC cut was well factored into market psychology.
Little immediate impact on USD/CAD, which continues choppy trade in
C$1.5070 area, looking to return to Monday highs around C$1.5120. (PE)



9:05 (Dow Jones) Merck & Co. (MRK) posted earnings of 75 cents a
share, in line with consensus estimates on sales of $11.47 billion. The
company's five main growth drivers - Zocor, Singulair, Fosamax, Vioxx,
and Cozaar/Hyzaar - continued to fuel sales, accounting for 61% in the
fourth quarter. Analysts quickly noted they were pleased with the
figures. The conference call is set to begin at 9:00 a.m. ET. (BMM)



9:01 (Dow Jones) The BTM/UBSW weekly chain store sales index dropped
0.7% from the week before, on a seasonally-adjusted comparable store
basis, as winter storms in the midwest and northeast impaired Saturday
shopping. (FL)



9:00 (Dow Jones) Merrill says it sees nothing in Texas Instruments'
(TXN) numbers that isn't already built into stock price. That said, the
firm cuts price target to $75 from $105, "simply to reflect more
realistic expectations." Cuts FY01 EPS view to $1.11 from $1.40, and
initiates FY02 view of $1.45. Maintains buy rating. (TG)



8:53 (Dow Jones) Prudential sees upside earnings from both Maxtor
(MXTR) and Western Digital (WDC) when the companies report next week.
Firm cites favorable industry pricing conditions prevalent in hard disk
drive industry in 4Q. Prudential also continues to find industry trends
encouraging. (TG)



8:46 (Dow Jones) The German Industry Federation forecasts German real
GDP growth of 2.50%-2.75% in 2001 after 3.1% growth in 2000. "Business
sentiment has cooled down considerably," the group says, but adds the
economic "dip" could be overcome by end of year. (JMS)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Here's how Kent Engelke, of Anderson & Strudwick,
sees stocks reacting to next week's FOMC meeting: a 25-basis-point cut
and the market could erase all of its January gains, while a
50-basis-point ease could result in a 50% retracement of that gain, via
normal profit taking. Many are playing a dangerous game, he says, hoping
profits will rebound in the 3Q. Ultimately, though, he can't justify
going against Fed policy and its historical implications, despite his
ongoing concerns about Nasdaq's valuation. (TG)



8:31 (Dow Jones) Treasurys are narrowly mixed soon after the New York
opening, with the 10-year up 1/32 to yield 5.22%. After Monday's
steepening, more could be on tap today. However, it's a decidedly light
data release day, and that's likely to put the focus on stocks, and
leave the market prone to trade in a range. (MSD)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Investors will spend part of Tuesday morning taking
in a ton of big profit reports, some of which look pretty good. EMC,
Merrill Lynch (MER), and Sunoco (SUN) are among the companies posting
better-than-expected results. The earnings shortfall from Texas
Instruments (TXN) last night, along with its weak 1Q outlook, apparently
is being treated in the same fashion as Dell's (DELL) warning of Monday.
That is, "it's already priced in." TI shares are a little weaker in
pre-market trade, but the overall tech group doesn't appear to be in too
bad of shape. Meanwhile, Wall Street will get a look at chain-store
sales later this morning, but Thursday is the big day on the data front,
with the 4Q employment cost index on tap, along with a speech from Fed
chief Alan Greenspan. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1n0266k




 MARKET TALK: Stock Futures Off To Lower Start 

895 words
23 January 2001
14:33
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



9:33 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps and Nasdaq start soft, as losses in
overnight trade spill over to day session. Focus for markets is on a
flurry of earnings reports and technical outlooks. Floor traders look
for quiet action as nothing  in the earnings releases is too big of a
surprise. (DMC)



9:28 (Dow Jones) Nearby Nymex crude seen opening 15-20 cents a barrel
lower in technical pullback ahead of API inventory report late Tuesday.
March crude, down 22c to $29.58 in overnight ACCESS trade, has support
at $29.40/bbl, while resistance is pegged at $30.57/bbl. (MSX)



9:26 (Dow Jones) S&P sees stability in telecom ratings by early 2002,
says Chris Legge, director for corporate ratings at the agency. "2000
was a very transitional year, unprecedented. We don't see that kind of
year in 2001." He adds: "We'd like to see stability very soon," but
early 2002 seems more likely. (RGB)



9:19 (Dow Jones) The Treasury market is slithering through a tight
range this morning, with little to hang its hat on, data wise. The
10-year is up 5/32 to yield 5.21%. Traders are on guard for corporate
supply and stock gains, the two factors most likely to send the market
lower this morning. (MSD)



9:11 (Dow Jones) Bank of Canada cited "abruptly" slowing U.S. economy
as prime motivator of its 25 bp cut in its Bank Rate to 5.75%. Though a
surprise to some, BOC cut was well factored into market psychology.
Little immediate impact on USD/CAD, which continues choppy trade in
C$1.5070 area, looking to return to Monday highs around C$1.5120. (PE)



9:05 (Dow Jones) Merck & Co. (MRK) posted earnings of 75 cents a
share, in line with consensus estimates on sales of $11.47 billion. The
company's five main growth drivers - Zocor, Singulair, Fosamax, Vioxx,
and Cozaar/Hyzaar - continued to fuel sales, accounting for 61% in the
fourth quarter. Analysts quickly noted they were pleased with the
figures. The conference call is set to begin at 9:00 a.m. ET. (BMM)



9:01 (Dow Jones) The BTM/UBSW weekly chain store sales index dropped
0.7% from the week before, on a seasonally-adjusted comparable store
basis, as winter storms in the midwest and northeast impaired Saturday
shopping. (FL)



9:00 (Dow Jones) Merrill says it sees nothing in Texas Instruments'
(TXN) numbers that isn't already built into stock price. That said, the
firm cuts price target to $75 from $105, "simply to reflect more
realistic expectations." Cuts FY01 EPS view to $1.11 from $1.40, and
initiates FY02 view of $1.45. Maintains buy rating. (TG)



8:53 (Dow Jones) Prudential sees upside earnings from both Maxtor
(MXTR) and Western Digital (WDC) when the companies report next week.
Firm cites favorable industry pricing conditions prevalent in hard disk
drive industry in 4Q. Prudential also continues to find industry trends
encouraging. (TG)



8:46 (Dow Jones) The German Industry Federation forecasts German real
GDP growth of 2.50%-2.75% in 2001 after 3.1% growth in 2000. "Business
sentiment has cooled down considerably," the group says, but adds the
economic "dip" could be overcome by end of year. (JMS)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Here's how Kent Engelke, of Anderson & Strudwick,
sees stocks reacting to next week's FOMC meeting: a 25-basis-point cut
and the market could erase all of its January gains, while a
50-basis-point ease could result in a 50% retracement of that gain, via
normal profit taking. Many are playing a dangerous game, he says, hoping
profits will rebound in the 3Q. Ultimately, though, he can't justify
going against Fed policy and its historical implications, despite his
ongoing concerns about Nasdaq's valuation. (TG)



8:31 (Dow Jones) Treasurys are narrowly mixed soon after the New York
opening, with the 10-year up 1/32 to yield 5.22%. After Monday's
steepening, more could be on tap today. However, it's a decidedly light
data release day, and that's likely to put the focus on stocks, and
leave the market prone to trade in a range. (MSD)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Investors will spend part of Tuesday morning taking
in a ton of big profit reports, some of which look pretty good. EMC,
Merrill Lynch (MER), and Sunoco (SUN) are among the companies posting
better-than-expected results. The earnings shortfall from Texas
Instruments (TXN) last night, along with its weak 1Q outlook, apparently
is being treated in the same fashion as Dell's (DELL) warning of Monday.
That is, "it's already priced in." TI shares are a little weaker in
pre-market trade, but the overall tech group doesn't appear to be in too
bad of shape. Meanwhile, Wall Street will get a look at chain-store
sales later this morning, but Thursday is the big day on the data front,
with the 4Q employment cost index on tap, along with a speech from Fed
chief Alan Greenspan. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1n02661




Business
Stocks fall on profit-taking; Lower forecast by Dell not factor

The Associated Press
465 words
23 January 2001
The Seattle Times
SETL
First
D2
English
Copyright 2001, The Seattle Times Company  All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

NEW YORK --Profit-taking--not an earnings warning from Dell Computer--sent stocks modestly lower yesterday. Analysts said Wall Street, which enjoyed healthy gains in the high-tech sector last week, was due for a pullback.

"We've had a pretty fabulous run since the Fed initially lowered rates on Jan. 2. Stock prices have done well," said Steven Goldman, market strategist at Weeden & Co. "There was some bad news today, but investors appear to be looking ahead, instead of focusing on the rear-view mirror and bad earnings news for this last quarter."

The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 9.35 at 10,578.24, according to preliminary calculations.

The Nasdaq composite index slipped 12.47 to 2,757.91, while the broader-based Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 0.36 to 1,342.90.

Dell, which fell 13 cents to $25.50, is the latest high-profile technology company to lower its earnings forecast because of the slowing economy and slumping consumer confidence.

So far this year, the market has had little reaction to similar warnings, reflecting many investors' belief that weak earnings were already priced into stocks.

The Federal Reserve's decision to lower interest rates earlier this month--and expectations that it will lower rates again next week--have made investors more confident even as companies release disappointing earnings outlooks.

"Six months ago, the same news would have sent Dell down 25 to 30 percent, but its stock is already down," said John Forelli, portfolio manager at Independence Investment Associates. "I think investors are starting to feel like the bad news is factored into stocks."

Also yesterday, a key gauge of U.S. economic activity plunged 0.6 percent in December, signaling continued weakness in the U.S. economy. The news from the New York-based Conference Board's Index of Leading Economic Indicators was taken as yet another sign that the economy is slowing, giving the Fed more reason to lower rates.

Three consecutive declines in the index traditionally have been seen by analysts as a signal that the U.S. economy is headed into recession.

But Conference Board economist Ken Goldstein said in a statement accompanying the report that "the cumulative decline is ... still below the threshold of what would be considered a recessionary signal."

He added: "The overall signal remains one of moderation in the pace of economic activity, but no recession looming on the horizon."

The decline in December was the largest since a 0.7 percent drop in January 1996, the Conference Board said.

The Seattle Times: Index of leading indicators (Graph not available electronically): Stocks fall on profit-taking (Graph not available electronically)| |chart   

Document SETL000020090109dx1n003my




DBusiness
Stocks decline on profit-taking

From Journal Sentinel wire reports   
68 words
23 January 2001
The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel
MLWK
Final
01
English
Copyright 2001, The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

Profit-taking sent stocks modestly lower Monday, as Wall Street rested after three weeks of healthy gains in the high-tech sector. An earnings warning from Dell Computer had little effect on the markets. This year, the market has had little reaction to similar warnings, reflecting many investors' belief that weak earnings were already priced into stocks.

Document MLWK000020100320dx1n013m4




Market report
 Business 
 DELL WARNING NAGS AT TECH SHARES OPTIMISTIC OUTLOOK BUOYS RETAIL SECTOR  

 Bill Barnhart  
715 words
23 January 2001
Chicago Tribune
TRIB
Chicago Sports Final ; N
9
English
 (Copyright 2001 by the Chicago Tribune)  

 Stocks ended narrowly mixed in moderate trading Monday.  

 Technology stocks slipped after Dell Computer warned of disappointing fourth-quarter results. Retailing stocks rallied on an upbeat outlook for the industry from Goldman Sachs.  

 Goldman raised its investment ratings on Sears, Gap, Target and Federated Department Stores, citing prospects for tax cuts and a recovery in the U.S. economy during the second half of the year.  

 The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 9.35 points, at 10,578.24, on New York Stock Exchange volume of 1.13 billion shares.  

 Winning stocks outnumbered losers by about 4-3 among NYSE stocks. The Standard & Poor's 500 edged up 0.36, to 1342.90.  

 Among major retailers, Sears added $2.92, or nearly 9 percent, to $36.60; Wal-Mart Stores added $1.75, to $52.56; Gap rose $3.25, to $29.25, and Target gained $1.81, to $34.56.  

 The Nasdaq composite index lost 12.47, to 2757.91, on Nasdaq volume of 2.03 billion shares. Nasdaq winners held a slight edge over losers.  

 Dell Computer closed down just 13 cents, to $25.50, after its profit warning. The stock was the most-active issue in the Nasdaq market.  

 Dell, issuing its fifth profit warning in 12 months, said the current economic slowdown "has been greater than anyone expected."  

 Nonetheless, Dell Chief Executive Michael Dell said, "We are seeing nice momentum in Europe" and "Asia continues to be strong."  

 Bear Stearns upgraded Dell to "attractive."  

 After the close of regular trading, shares of semiconductor maker Texas Instruments fell. The company's fourth-quarter earnings, issued late Monday, came in below the consensus Wall Street estimate.  

 Similarly, Vitesse Semiconductor traded lower after-hours despite a quarterly report that slightly beat the consensus forecast.  

 The Russell 2000 index of small-company stocks rose 2.06, to 490.15.  

 Among stocks in the news, biotechnology leader Amgen gained nearly 13 percent, to $67.62. A judge sided with the company in a patent dispute regarding its drug, called Epogen, for fighting anemia.  

 The American Stock Exchange index of biotech stocks gained 4.6 percent.  

 In the Treasury securities market, long-term bonds fell but short- dated notes rallied. Traders anticipate another cut in short-term interest rates by the Federal Reserve, whose monetary policy committee meets Jan. 30-31.  

 Attention also turned to a Capitol Hill debate over cutting income taxes. The Bush administration submitted a proposal for a 10-year, $1.3 trillion tax cut, centered on cutting income tax rates.  

 Talk has also begun on both sides of the aisle about a cut in the capital gains tax rates. Sponsors of the Bush tax cut plan, Republican Sen. Phil Gramm of Texas and Democrat Zell Miller of Georgia, said the size of the tax cut may increase. The bill introduced Monday does not address capital gains.  

 Legislators will be listening for Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan to comment on tax cuts when he addresses the Senate Budget Committee on Thursday.  

 Treasury auction: Interest rates declined at Monday's auction of 3- and 6-month Treasury bills.  

 The discount rate for three-month bills was 5.09 percent, down from 5.22 percent last week. The rate of 6-month bills was 4.92 percent, down from 5.05 percent last week.  

 The coupon equivalent rates at Monday's auction were 5.23 percent for 3-month bills and 5.11 percent for 6-month bills.  

 Local news: Standard & Poor's cut its credit rating for Schaumburg- based Motorola. "The company's profitability and cash flow will remain pressured by weakness in its key wireless handset and semiconductor markets over the intermediate term," S&P credit analysts concluded. "Restructuring charges remain likely as the company continues to realign its cost base." Shares fell $1.19, or 4.8 percent, to $23.50.  

 - Shares of Chicago-based Northern Trust rose $4.62, or 7.2 percent, to $69.19, after Merrill Lynch gave the stock an "accumulate" rating. Merrill Lynch said its upgrade reflected a recent slump in the stock. "We see no sustained slowing in [earnings per share] momentum," the brokerage firm said.  

Document trib000020010713dx1n00610




Abreast of the Market
 IBM, H-P, Gateway and Dell Fall; Target, Sears and Amgen Advance   

 By Robert O'Brien   
Dow Jones Newswires
962 words
23 January 2001
The Wall Street Journal
J
C4
English
 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

 NEW YORK -- Another batch of downbeat earnings statements kept Wall Street optimism in check, but the losses proved rather modest.   

 Computer makers, a group that had begun to pick up last week after a brutal selloff in the preceding months, came under fire again. International Business Machines fell $2.69 to $108.56, while Hewlett-Packard lost 1.25 to 34.50, and Gateway declined 2.24 to 21.45.   

 The losses came after rival personal-computer maker Dell Computer (Nasdaq) said fourth-quarter earnings wouldn't be as strong as the company had forecast. Analysts said they had seen a profit warning coming, which allowed for a relatively modest selloff -- shares eased 13 cents to 25.50 -- though they also said the scope of the profit reduction caught them by surprise.   

 Meanwhile, some of the suppliers that sell gear and services to Dell fell in sympathy, with electronics manufacturer SCI Systems down 3 to 30.69, and Jabil Circuit, another manufacturer, off 1.88 to 35.13.   

 Nevertheless, investors, even in the technology sector, allowed themselves the luxury of picking some of the low-hanging fruit in the form of companies slated to issue profit reports that are expected to be more positive. Veritas Software (Nasdaq) rose 1.44 to 100.69, reflecting some of the optimism on what its earnings will show.   

 "The tone has been a little better the last few days," said Scott Curtis, head of trading at Kaufman Brothers. "It seems to be a case where, maybe the bull isn't fully back, but the bear isn't as ferocious as it was."   

 The Nasdaq Composite Index finished off 12.47, or 0.45%, at 2757.91, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average declined 9.35, or 0.09%, to 10578.24.   

 American Express fell 3.63 to 45, after the financial-services company posted fourth-quarter results that matched analysts' projections, but also made some cautious comments about its earnings for 2001. The company added that it expects economic weakness to continue, hurting its growth.   

 Shares of several retailers gained, after Goldman Sachs issued some upbeat comments about the sector. Federated Department Stores rose 2.50 to 40.50, Target gained 1.81 to 34.56, and Sears Roebuck advanced 2.92 to 36.60. Goldman raised its ratings on those issues, as well as Gap, which rose 3.25 to 29.25, and TJX, which gained 1.31 to 28.81. The enthusiasm lifted Wal-Mart Stores 1.75 to 52.56, while Home Depot gained 2.75 to 43.75.   

 The biotechnology sector also managed to post sharp gains. Amgen (Nasdaq) gained 7.63 to 67.63. A federal-court judge in Boston ruled Friday that rival Transkaryotic Therapies had infringed Amgen patents for its anemia treatment, preserving the company's monopoly for its top-selling drug. Shares of Transkaryotic (Nasdaq) fell 10.88 to 23.13.   

 The ruling also helped to restore some confidence in the safety of other biotech companies' patents. Human Genome Sciences gained 2.44 to 56, while Protein Design Labs rose 3.63 to 58.25, both on Nasdaq, after CIBC World Markets said the companies have important patent estates.   

 Oracle (Nasdaq) fell 2.75 to 31.81. Traders reported speculation on trading desks and Internet message boards that the company planned to amend the quarterly Securities and Exchange Commission filing it submitted last week, presumably to reveal some adverse news. The company denied that it had plans to amend that filing.   

 Concord EFS (Nasdaq) added 2.06 to 37.25. The Memphis, Tenn., provider of electronic-transaction services said it reached an agreement with Wal-Mart Stores to help process debit transactions for Wal-Mart and Sam's Clubs stores.   

 Scientific-Atlanta fell 1.94 to 55.56. Morgan Stanley cut its rating on shares of the Atlanta cable-television equipment maker.   

 Powerwave Technologies (Nasdaq) slid 7.31 to 39.75. UBS Warburg cut its rating on the Irvine, Calif., supplier of wireless communications network equipment, saying that, because of industry changes, it saw little opportunity for price-to-earnings multiples to expand in the sector.   

 ADC Telecommunications (Nasdaq) fell 1.31 to 14.25, sinking to a 52-week low, after losing 27% Friday, when the Minneapolis communications-equipment maker lowered its earnings outlook for its fiscal first quarter and 2001 fiscal year. More firms cut their ratings on the stock, though many already had done so Friday.   

 Schering-Plough finished fractionally lower, losing six cents to 52.31, though its shares traded higher intraday. The Food and Drug Administration approved its once-a-week injectable version of a treatment for chronic hepatitis C.   

 Walt Disney lost 1.56 to 31.13. An article in The Wall Street Journal raised questions about the outlook for the Burbank, Calif., entertainment concern's new theme park in Anaheim, Calif., given the decline in economic growth. The new park is slated to open Feb. 8.   

 Gillette gained 56 cents to 34.25. The Boston consumer-products maker said it named James M. Kilts, a former Nabisco Holdings executive, as chairman and chief executive, effective Feb. 12.   

 Enron gained 4.19 to 75.06. The Houston natural-gas and energy concern reported quarterly results that topped Wall Street expectations. The company also said it doesn't expect the problems in the California energy market to affect its earnings this year.   

 Clear Channel Communications lost 2.38 to 59.38, following some cautious comments by Lehman Brothers about the broadcasting industry.   

 Cox Radio lost 1 to 25.50, after Bear Stearns lowered its rating on the Atlanta radio broadcaster.   

Document j000000020010711dx1n000s2




 New bailout for EM.TV devised. 

 Scott Roxborough 
790 words
23 January 2001
Hollywood Reporter
HLYW
4
ISSN: 0018-3660; Volume 366; Issue 32
English
 Copyright 2001 Gale Group Inc. All rights reserved. COPYRIGHT 2001 VNU Business Media 

 COLOGNE, Germany -- Media mogul Herbert Kloiber and U.S. brokerage firm Hellmann & Friedman have reportedly structured an alternative rescue plan for struggling German media group EM.TV & Merchandising AG. 

 The deal would see San Francisco-based Hellman & Friedman buy back the 50% stake in Formula One auto racing holding company SLEC it sold to EM.TV in March, according to reports in the German media Monday. The bank would then return a 17% stake of the company to Formula One boss Bernie Ecclestone. In exchange, Ecclestone would drop a put option that, if exercised, would allow him to force EM.TV to buy another 25% of SLEC for $1 billion. 

 Hellman & Friedman would then have to find a buyer for the remaining 33% of the racing company. Likely candidates include a consortium of Formula One automobile manufacturers, investment bank Morgan Grenfell and Kloiber, who has shown a taste for acquiring top sporting rights. 

 The Hellmann & Friedman deal, reportedly put together by Kloiber and Nickolaus Becker, head of EM.TV's supervisory board, could be a bitter pill for the German company to swallow. Hellmann & Friedman is said to be offering only $700 million for the SLEC stake, compared with the $1.65 billion EM.TV paid for it in a stock and cash deal last year. 

 A spokesman for Hellman & Friedman declined comment Monday. 

 EM.TV, however, may have few options left. Exclusive bailout talks with German media giant Kirch-Group, first announced last month, have reportedly broken down, and the Munich-based kids' television company desperately needs a strong partner with ready cash. Burdened by about $1 billion in debt, EM.TV would be unable to finance the SLEC put option alone should Ecclestone decide to exercise it. 

 Despite the less-than-ideal conditions, rumors that a deal was in the works sent EM.TV stock into a rare upswing. On Monday, EM.TV shares climbed almost 10% to 8.54 euros ($8). 

 Kirch's rescue plan would have it take 16.74% of EM.TV and about half of its 50% stake in Formula One. The deal also would see Kirch hand EM.TV $550 million and the remaining half of Junior, the kids' TV rights catalogue the two companies jointly control. 

 A Kirch spokesman declined comment on the reports of a Kloiber-Hellmann & Friedman counteroffer, except to say that Kirch was still officially in negotiations with EM.TV. 

 EM.TV spokesman Michael Birnbaum said the company has received other offers for its SLEC stake but added that the company will remain in exclusive talks with the KirchGroup until at least the end of this month. 

 Kloiber, a longtime Kirch opponent, has opposed Kirch's involvement from the beginning. His company, TeleMunchen Group, is 45%-owned by EM.TV, and he has said he wants to keep Kirch "as far away from EM.TV as possible." 

 If Kirch takes a stake in EM.TV, Kloiber may be forced to buy back EM.TV's 45% stake in TeleMunchen to satisfy European competition watchdogs. It is thought that Kloiber would have trouble coming up with the DM860 million EM.TV originally paid for the stake. Kloiber, who is attending NATPE in Las Vegas, was unavailable for comment. 

 Ecclestone also is thought to dislike the idea of giving Kirch a major stake in his Formula One circuit. Kirch plans to give Formula One exclusively to its German pay TV operation Premiere World, a move that would cut into the free TV revenue Ecclestone enjoys by selling his races to Kirch competitor RTL. 

 In a separate development Monday, former EM.TV chief financial officer Florian Haffa revealed that he sold off about 450,000 EM.TV shares worth around DM34.1 million ($16.3 million) shortly before the company's stock went into free fall late last year. 

 Haffa told German newsweekly Der Spiegel that he sold 50,000 EM.TV shares in July and 400,000 in October. The October sale, which Haffa told Spiegel was to pay off a personal debt, is the most controversial because it came shortly before the company issued a shock profit warning in which Haffa said that the firm would book a net loss of DM350 million ($167 million). 

 Following the announcement, Florian Haffa resigned as chief financial officer. Florian's brother, EM.TV CEO Thomas, has also admitted to selling about DM40 million ($19.1 million) in EM.TV shares in February -- shortly before EM.TV stock began its long decline. 

FULL TEXT VNU eMedia, Inc. THIS IS THE FULL TEXT: COPYRIGHT 2001 VNU Business Media Subscription: $175.00 per year. Published daily (5 times a week).

Document hlyw000020010711dx1n000wx




 Business Highlights 

1,202 words
23 January 2001
00:04
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2001.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 SACRAMENTO, Calif. (AP) - Transmission problems aggravated California's power crisis on Monday as the state continued its struggle to keep the lights on. 

 Stage 3 alerts - the most severe and the prelude to rolling blackouts - remained in effect, marking the seventh straight day with electricity reserves near or below 1.5 percent. 

 The Independent System Operator was expecting to avoid blackouts like those that darkened thousands of businesses and homes for several hours last week. Credit was given to conservation and the return to service of several newly repaired plants in Southern California. 

 But the transfer of power between south and north was slowed when the three major conduits were jammed at a bottleneck consisting of just two 500,000-volt lines in central California. 

 --- 

 WASHINGTON (AP) - The Supreme Court agreed Monday to rule on a case that could affect how quickly American consumers see greater choice for local phone service - and perhaps lower prices - in a national market still dominated by the offspring of the old Bell system. 

 The case involves a dispute over the fees that dominant local phone companies charge to lease their lines to rivals that want to offer competing services. The 1996 Telecommunications Act, which sought to crack open the local phone monopoly, laid this out as a key way for upstart companies to get into the market. 

 The law allowed for telecom businesses, including long-distance providers, to lease phone lines and connect to existing networks run mostly by the regional Bells, the local phone companies severed from AT&T in the 1980s. Rival providers serve less than 7 percent of the nation's 192 million local phone lines, according to government figures. 

 --- 

 NEW YORK (AP) - A key gauge of U.S. economic activity plunged 0.6 percent in December, the largest drop in five years and a signal of continued weakness in the U.S. economy. 

 The New York-based Conference Board said its Index of Leading Economic Indicators, which has been statistically revised and rebased, fell to 108.3 last month after two consecutive drops of 0.4 percent in October and November. 

 Three consecutive declines in the index traditionally has been seen by analysts as a signal that the U.S. economy is headed into recession. 

 --- 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Designer Calvin Klein and Linda Wachner, chief executive officer of Warnaco Group Inc., reached an 11th-hour settlement of their trade infringement battle Monday, avoiding a federal trial and preserving a lucrative licensing partnership. 

 The two fashion heavyweights sealed the deal with a handshake and air kisses in a Manhattan courtroom only minutes before a judge was to begin picking a jury for Calvin Klein Inc.'s lawsuit against Warnaco. 

 The suit had sought to terminate the jeans licensing deal by alleging that Warnaco cheapened Calvin Klein's jeanswear brand by selling it to such mass outlets as Costco Warehouse Club without approval. 

 --- 

 AUSTIN, Texas (AP) - A slowing economy and diminishing demand for personal computers and services caused Dell Computer Corp. to warn Monday that it won't meet fourth-quarter earnings and revenue expectations. 

 Dell said earnings for the three months ending Feb. 2 would be between 18 cents and 19 cents per share, down from the 26 cents the company originally expected and down from the 25 cents estimated by analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Revenue for the quarter will total $8.5 billion to $8.6 billion, 1 percent to 2 percent lower than expected, the company said. Dell will release fourth quarter results Feb. 15. 

 --- 

 LOS ANGELES (AP) - Talks aimed at preventing a walkout by Hollywood screenwriters began Monday, with some of the biggest studios sending their top executives to the opening session in a gesture of cooperation. 

 Many in Hollywood have expressed fear that negotiations with the Writers Guild of America - and, later, the Screen Actors Guild - will end in an industrywide summer shutdown. 

 WGA representatives are negotiating with the Alliance of Motion Picture & Television Producers, which represents the major studios and independent companies. The WGA contract expires May 1. 

 Contracts with the Screen Actors Guild and the American Federation of Radio & Television Artists - which represent 135,000 actors - expire two months later. 

 --- 

 WASHINGTON (AP) - The Senate Banking Committee chairman said Monday he plans to send President Bush a new bankruptcy overhaul bill that would make it harder for people to erase their debts in court. 

 Congress overwhelmingly passed a similar bill last year, but it was vetoed by President Clinton, who said it was unfair to ordinary debtors and working families who fall on hard times. 

 Bush is widely expected to sign such legislation if it reaches his desk. 

 That would mean a stricter stance toward debtors, particularly wealthy ones, who abuse the bankruptcy court system, Gramm indicated. 

 --- 

 DETROIT (AP) - Auto parts suppliers Delphi Automotive Systems Corp. and Visteon Corp. said Monday they will temporarily lay off a combined 10,300 hourly workers this week, given automakers' production cuts amid softened U.S. vehicle sales. 

 Delphi, the world's largest automotive supplier, said nearly half of the 4,300 workers it will idle for a week beginning Monday at 25 sites are in Ohio, with the remainder in Michigan, Indiana and New York state, spokesman Steve Gaut said. 

 About 6,000 affected Visteon workers are largely in Michigan, Indiana and Ohio, spokeswoman Carly Lamprecht said. 

 Specific breakdowns of affected workers by plant were not immediately available, though both companies called the layoffs temporary and meant to keep inventories balanced with curbed demand from automakers. 

 --- 

 BOSTON (AP) - Sneaker maker Converse Inc., best known for its basketball and "Chuck Taylor" brand shoes, is closing three North American production plants and shifting production to Asia as part of a Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization. 

 The 93-year-old company said Monday it plans to close its plants in Lumberton, N.C., Mission, Texas, and Reynosa, Mexico, by March 31. The three plants employ about 1,000 people. 

 Converse said it plans to become exclusively a licensor of Converse-brand products - a model it has already adopted for overseas sales. Converse has filed a motion with the bankruptcy court in Delaware seeking approval of an agreement to make Santa Barbara, Calif.-based Global Brand Marketing Inc. the licensee for Converse-brand footwear in the U.S. 

 --- 

 By The Associated Press 

Profit-taking sent stocks modestly lower Monday as Wall Street rested after three weeks of healthy gains in the high-tech sector. An earnings warning from Dell Computer had little effect on the markets. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 9.35 at 10,578.24, and the Nasdaq composite index slipped 12.47 to 2,757.91, while the Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 0.36 to 1,342.90. 

 Crude and products futures fell in late profit-taking at the New York Mercantile Exchange Monday, correcting for powerful gains made on Friday. 

 In other markets, trading bulls in the cocoa futures at the Coffee, Sugar & Cocoa Exchange had reason to rejoice Monday, over sizable gains, while coffee futures gained on the CSCE after heavy short covering by speculative commodity funds. Cotton futures slid on the New York Cotton Exchange. 

Urgent

Document aprs000020010709dx1n02gy7




 MARKET TALK: Patent Ruling Has Biotech Group Moving 

1,429 words
22 January 2001
15:36
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:35 (Dow Jones) Transkaryotic Therapies Inc. (TKTX) shares
plummetted while legal nemesis Amgen Inc. (AMGN) soared, bringing the
rest of the biotech sector with it. Investors were celebrating Amgen's
victory over Transkaryotic and its marketing partner Aventis SA (AVE)
and the idea that patents would be upheld and enforced. After the
closing bell Friday, a federal court ruled Transkaryotic and Aventis
violated three of Amgen's patents that protected anti-anemia drug Epogen
for kidney dialysis patients. (BMM)



10:31 (Dow Jones) From a financial markets perspective, it doesn't
matter whether we're in for a soft landing or already in a recession,
says Lehman investment strategist Jeff Applegate. As long as the Fed is
easing to ensure a soft landing doesn't get harder, stocks should be
rebounding. If it's already a hard landing and the Fed has begun the
process to recovery, stocks should also be going up. Either way, history
suggests the stock-market trough is behind us. His call, by the way, is
for a soft landing. (TG)



10:19 (Dow Jones) Even though traders believe March Nasdaq has priced
in negative earnings for tech issues, the contract was depressed by Dell
Computer's (DELL) 4Q earnings warning, suggesting more losses could
follow in this earnings-heavy week. "Unless you get something really
drastic, the market will work its way lower, but not in a big way," said
one floor trader. (ZHS)



10:15 (Dow Jones) CSFB reinstates coverage of MarchFirst (MRCH) with
buy rating and $8 price target, but remains "a bit cautious" on fiscal
2001 - forecasting fiscal 2001 revenue and losses well-below the
struggling Web consulting firm's guidance. CSFB, which was paid $10.5
million to be MarchFirst's financial advisor in a recent $150 million
financing, says MarchFirst's restructuring is well underway. Co. reports
4Q on Feb. 12. Shares up 50% to $2.78. (MLP)



10:10 (Dow Jones) EUR slide may be worrying for some, but not for
economists at UBS Warburg. They say slide is still a correction
following sharp gains rather than "start of a prolonged downturn." (NEH)



10:05 (Dow Jones) American Depositary Receipts of Venezuelan consumer
products company Mavesa SA (MAV) are up 12.8% to $8.25 after Polar, the
country's largest brewer, offered to buy 65% of the company's shares at
$8.50 per ADR. (AG)



9:59 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch cut its 2001 target for the TSE 300
composite index, Canada's main stock benchmark, to 10,500 from 11,000
points, citing lower growth estimates for the global economy and limited
multiple expansion for the key index. The TSE 300 was recently trading
down 1.0% at 9068.90. (BED)



9:50 (Dow Jones) Stocks out to soft open, with technology moving
lower. Biotechs, retailers, and drugs show moderate strength. DJIA off
23 at 10568, Nasdaq drops 35 to 2735, and S&P 500 eases 2 to 1240. (TG)



9:43 (Dow Jones) Merrill has Texas Instruments (TXN) posting 4Q EPS of
33c later Monday, with no upside likely. But the possibility of a soft
1Q aside, firm says TI is the large-cap semiconductor name investors
should own for long-term. Meanwhile, Merrill says Vitesse (VTSS) should
report 24c a share later today, with moderate upside potential. (TG)



9:34 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude seen opening 20-25 cents a barrel lower,
correcting Friday's technical gains in volatile pre-expiry trade of Feb.
contract. Friday's strong close points to uptrend but Monday is Feb.
contract's "last trading day, so anything can happen," analyst says.
Feb. crude, down 19c to $32 on ACCESS, faces resistance at $32.40;
support is pegged at $31.40. March crude is down 14c to $30.05 overnight
in ACCESS trade. (MSX)



9:26 (Dow Jones) While CSFB, ABN Amro, and Robbie Stephens upgraded
Dell Computer (DELL) very recently, Merrill issues a note this morning
saying it expects Dell to pre-announce a miss for the January quarter
within the next two weeks. The firm underestimated the extent of Dell's
miss, though, as it lowered its 4Q estimate to 23c a share from 26c
(Dell earlier said it would post 18c-19c a share). Merrill reiterates
buy, and views any significant weakness in shares as buying opportunity.
(TG)



9:14 (Dow Jones) UBS' Ed Kerschner offers report this morning on
FASB's likely elimination of pooling accounting for M&A. Firms benefit
from higher earnings due to lack of goodwill amortization plus greater
asset value and higher shareholder equity. Among downsides: lower
quality of earnings (that increase in earnings is just an accounting
change, remember?). Kerschner sees an aggregate 5% to 6% boost for S&P
500 EPS. (GC)



9:09 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD is heading higher after failure to break
below $0.9262, the low for the year and level hit after the surprise Fed
cut triggered a huge stock rally on Jan. 3. EUR/USD is up to $0.9302
after falling as low as $0.9272. (CSE)



9:06 (Dow Jones) Lehman expects Veritas' (VRTS) Dec. quarter results
to be a penny, maybe two, ahead of expectations. Firm also believes
company may raise guidance, driven by strong fundamentals and healthy
demand by IT managers for company's clustering, server-less back-up, and
file system products. While concerns over declining IT spending remain,
Lehman says money is being spent on "must-have" and mission critical
software, which includes Veritas' data availability products. Reiterates
strong buy, price target $160. (TG)



8:59 (Dow Jones) You want it when? Results of Accenture's (formerly
Andersen Consulting) holiday B2C study: 67% of deliveries weren't
received as ordered, and 12% didn't make it by X-mas. Bricks-and-clicks
operators had better on-time deliveries than "pure play" e-tailers.
Accenture placed nearly 600 orders between Nov. 27-Dec. 4. on about 100
Web sites. (GC)



8:53 (Dow Jones) Standard & Poor's notes fact that corporate credit
defaults started rising in 2000 at a time when the economy was robust is
a concern. "Now that the economy is showing signs of slowing materially,
the more traditional business cycle deterioration in portfolios will
accelerate," says Robert Swanton, a director in S&P's U.S. Financial
Services Group. (TG)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Once again, Treasurys players clearly favor
curve-steepening trades, with everything but bills and two-year notes
trading under water. Wednesday's two-year auction could briefly
challenge the steepening trend, but not for long. As talk of the
economic slowdown/potential recession starts to gel in the collective
mind of the market, Treasurys will remain supported, and the steeper
curve will persist. (SV)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Arnhold's John Roque says tech/telecom can continue
to outperform for a while longer, perhaps until the FOMC meeting nezt
week. Why? Because the number of new highs on the NYSE has fallen
sharply. "We know this is a circuitous way of saying why tech/telecom
can outperform for a while longer, but if the number of new highs on the
NYSE is falling, then NYSE stocks should underperform," he says. Roque
notes new highs on the NYSE reached a peak of 386 on Dec. 28, and have
recently fallen to 107. (TG)



8:33 (Dow Jones) Weak data out of the eurozone and strong data out of
Japan earlier have helped to continue the trend of the last 2 weeks.
EUR/USD has dropped to $0.9279, while USD/JPY is down at Y116.58. (CSE)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks will fall at the open, and another
high-profile earnings warning may limit any chance of an upside reversal
Monday. Dell Computer (DELL) said 4Q earnings will be well below
expectations, at 18c-19c a share. It comes as little surprise the
company cited a slowdown in demand, but the latest estimates from Dell
come not long after it had projected earnings of 26c. That's precisely
why so many market observers are calling for more weakness in stocks -
while some analysts have argued the worst has been seen on the earnings
front, others say the profit trough has yet to come. Big week for
earnings, including American Express (AXP) and Texas Instruments (TXN)
today. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1m0274c




 MARKET TALK: Even With Recession, Worst May Be Behind Stks 

1,351 words
22 January 2001
15:33
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:31 (Dow Jones) From a financial markets perspective, it doesn't
matter whether we're in for a soft landing or already in a recession,
says Lehman investment strategist Jeff Applegate. As long as the Fed is
easing to ensure a soft landing doesn't get harder, stocks should be
rebounding. If it's already a hard landing and the Fed has begun the
process to recovery, stocks should also be going up. Either way, history
suggests the stock-market trough is behind us. His call, by the way, is
for a soft landing. (TG)



10:19 (Dow Jones) Even though traders believe March Nasdaq has priced
in negative earnings for tech issues, the contract was depressed by Dell
Computer's (DELL) 4Q earnings warning, suggesting more losses could
follow in this earnings-heavy week. "Unless you get something really
drastic, the market will work its way lower, but not in a big way," said
one floor trader. (ZHS)



10:15 (Dow Jones) CSFB reinstates coverage of MarchFirst (MRCH) with
buy rating and $8 price target, but remains "a bit cautious" on fiscal
2001 - forecasting fiscal 2001 revenue and losses well-below the
struggling Web consulting firm's guidance. CSFB, which was paid $10.5
million to be MarchFirst's financial advisor in a recent $150 million
financing, says MarchFirst's restructuring is well underway. Co. reports
4Q on Feb. 12. Shares up 50% to $2.78. (MLP)



10:10 (Dow Jones) EUR slide may be worrying for some, but not for
economists at UBS Warburg. They say slide is still a correction
following sharp gains rather than "start of a prolonged downturn." (NEH)



10:05 (Dow Jones) American Depositary Receipts of Venezuelan consumer
products company Mavesa SA (MAV) are up 12.8% to $8.25 after Polar, the
country's largest brewer, offered to buy 65% of the company's shares at
$8.50 per ADR. (AG)



9:59 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch cut its 2001 target for the TSE 300
composite index, Canada's main stock benchmark, to 10,500 from 11,000
points, citing lower growth estimates for the global economy and limited
multiple expansion for the key index. The TSE 300 was recently trading
down 1.0% at 9068.90. (BED)



9:50 (Dow Jones) Stocks out to soft open, with technology moving
lower. Biotechs, retailers, and drugs show moderate strength. DJIA off
23 at 10568, Nasdaq drops 35 to 2735, and S&P 500 eases 2 to 1240. (TG)



9:43 (Dow Jones) Merrill has Texas Instruments (TXN) posting 4Q EPS of
33c later Monday, with no upside likely. But the possibility of a soft
1Q aside, firm says TI is the large-cap semiconductor name investors
should own for long-term. Meanwhile, Merrill says Vitesse (VTSS) should
report 24c a share later today, with moderate upside potential. (TG)



9:34 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude seen opening 20-25 cents a barrel lower,
correcting Friday's technical gains in volatile pre-expiry trade of Feb.
contract. Friday's strong close points to uptrend but Monday is Feb.
contract's "last trading day, so anything can happen," analyst says.
Feb. crude, down 19c to $32 on ACCESS, faces resistance at $32.40;
support is pegged at $31.40. March crude is down 14c to $30.05 overnight
in ACCESS trade. (MSX)



9:26 (Dow Jones) While CSFB, ABN Amro, and Robbie Stephens upgraded
Dell Computer (DELL) very recently, Merrill issues a note this morning
saying it expects Dell to pre-announce a miss for the January quarter
within the next two weeks. The firm underestimated the extent of Dell's
miss, though, as it lowered its 4Q estimate to 23c a share from 26c
(Dell earlier said it would post 18c-19c a share). Merrill reiterates
buy, and views any significant weakness in shares as buying opportunity.
(TG)



9:14 (Dow Jones) UBS' Ed Kerschner offers report this morning on
FASB's likely elimination of pooling accounting for M&A. Firms benefit
from higher earnings due to lack of goodwill amortization plus greater
asset value and higher shareholder equity. Among downsides: lower
quality of earnings (that increase in earnings is just an accounting
change, remember?). Kerschner sees an aggregate 5% to 6% boost for S&P
500 EPS. (GC)



9:09 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD is heading higher after failure to break
below $0.9262, the low for the year and level hit after the surprise Fed
cut triggered a huge stock rally on Jan. 3. EUR/USD is up to $0.9302
after falling as low as $0.9272. (CSE)



9:06 (Dow Jones) Lehman expects Veritas' (VRTS) Dec. quarter results
to be a penny, maybe two, ahead of expectations. Firm also believes
company may raise guidance, driven by strong fundamentals and healthy
demand by IT managers for company's clustering, server-less back-up, and
file system products. While concerns over declining IT spending remain,
Lehman says money is being spent on "must-have" and mission critical
software, which includes Veritas' data availability products. Reiterates
strong buy, price target $160. (TG)



8:59 (Dow Jones) You want it when? Results of Accenture's (formerly
Andersen Consulting) holiday B2C study: 67% of deliveries weren't
received as ordered, and 12% didn't make it by X-mas. Bricks-and-clicks
operators had better on-time deliveries than "pure play" e-tailers.
Accenture placed nearly 600 orders between Nov. 27-Dec. 4. on about 100
Web sites. (GC)



8:53 (Dow Jones) Standard & Poor's notes fact that corporate credit
defaults started rising in 2000 at a time when the economy was robust is
a concern. "Now that the economy is showing signs of slowing materially,
the more traditional business cycle deterioration in portfolios will
accelerate," says Robert Swanton, a director in S&P's U.S. Financial
Services Group. (TG)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Once again, Treasurys players clearly favor
curve-steepening trades, with everything but bills and two-year notes
trading under water. Wednesday's two-year auction could briefly
challenge the steepening trend, but not for long. As talk of the
economic slowdown/potential recession starts to gel in the collective
mind of the market, Treasurys will remain supported, and the steeper
curve will persist. (SV)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Arnhold's John Roque says tech/telecom can continue
to outperform for a while longer, perhaps until the FOMC meeting nezt
week. Why? Because the number of new highs on the NYSE has fallen
sharply. "We know this is a circuitous way of saying why tech/telecom
can outperform for a while longer, but if the number of new highs on the
NYSE is falling, then NYSE stocks should underperform," he says. Roque
notes new highs on the NYSE reached a peak of 386 on Dec. 28, and have
recently fallen to 107. (TG)



8:33 (Dow Jones) Weak data out of the eurozone and strong data out of
Japan earlier have helped to continue the trend of the last 2 weeks.
EUR/USD has dropped to $0.9279, while USD/JPY is down at Y116.58. (CSE)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks will fall at the open, and another
high-profile earnings warning may limit any chance of an upside reversal
Monday. Dell Computer (DELL) said 4Q earnings will be well below
expectations, at 18c-19c a share. It comes as little surprise the
company cited a slowdown in demand, but the latest estimates from Dell
come not long after it had projected earnings of 26c. That's precisely
why so many market observers are calling for more weakness in stocks -
while some analysts have argued the worst has been seen on the earnings
front, others say the profit trough has yet to come. Big week for
earnings, including American Express (AXP) and Texas Instruments (TXN)
today. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1m0273x




 MARKET TALK: Stock Futures May Work Their Way Mildly Lower 

1,255 words
22 January 2001
15:20
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:19 (Dow Jones) Even though traders believe March Nasdaq has priced
in negative earnings for tech issues, the contract was depressed by Dell
Computer's (DELL) 4Q earnings warning, suggesting more losses could
follow in this earnings-heavy week. "Unless you get something really
drastic, the market will work its way lower, but not in a big way," said
one floor trader. (ZHS)



10:15 (Dow Jones) CSFB reinstates coverage of MarchFirst (MRCH) with
buy rating and $8 price target, but remains "a bit cautious" on fiscal
2001 - forecasting fiscal 2001 revenue and losses well-below the
struggling Web consulting firm's guidance. CSFB, which was paid $10.5
million to be MarchFirst's financial advisor in a recent $150 million
financing, says MarchFirst's restructuring is well underway. Co. reports
4Q on Feb. 12. Shares up 50% to $2.78. (MLP)



10:10 (Dow Jones) EUR slide may be worrying for some, but not for
economists at UBS Warburg. They say slide is still a correction
following sharp gains rather than "start of a prolonged downturn." (NEH)



10:05 (Dow Jones) American Depositary Receipts of Venezuelan consumer
products company Mavesa SA (MAV) are up 12.8% to $8.25 after Polar, the
country's largest brewer, offered to buy 65% of the company's shares at
$8.50 per ADR. (AG)



9:59 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch cut its 2001 target for the TSE 300
composite index, Canada's main stock benchmark, to 10,500 from 11,000
points, citing lower growth estimates for the global economy and limited
multiple expansion for the key index. The TSE 300 was recently trading
down 1.0% at 9068.90. (BED)



9:50 (Dow Jones) Stocks out to soft open, with technology moving
lower. Biotechs, retailers, and drugs show moderate strength. DJIA off
23 at 10568, Nasdaq drops 35 to 2735, and S&P 500 eases 2 to 1240. (TG)



9:43 (Dow Jones) Merrill has Texas Instruments (TXN) posting 4Q EPS of
33c later Monday, with no upside likely. But the possibility of a soft
1Q aside, firm says TI is the large-cap semiconductor name investors
should own for long-term. Meanwhile, Merrill says Vitesse (VTSS) should
report 24c a share later today, with moderate upside potential. (TG)



9:34 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude seen opening 20-25 cents a barrel lower,
correcting Friday's technical gains in volatile pre-expiry trade of Feb.
contract. Friday's strong close points to uptrend but Monday is Feb.
contract's "last trading day, so anything can happen," analyst says.
Feb. crude, down 19c to $32 on ACCESS, faces resistance at $32.40;
support is pegged at $31.40. March crude is down 14c to $30.05 overnight
in ACCESS trade. (MSX)



9:26 (Dow Jones) While CSFB, ABN Amro, and Robbie Stephens upgraded
Dell Computer (DELL) very recently, Merrill issues a note this morning
saying it expects Dell to pre-announce a miss for the January quarter
within the next two weeks. The firm underestimated the extent of Dell's
miss, though, as it lowered its 4Q estimate to 23c a share from 26c
(Dell earlier said it would post 18c-19c a share). Merrill reiterates
buy, and views any significant weakness in shares as buying opportunity.
(TG)



9:14 (Dow Jones) UBS' Ed Kerschner offers report this morning on
FASB's likely elimination of pooling accounting for M&A. Firms benefit
from higher earnings due to lack of goodwill amortization plus greater
asset value and higher shareholder equity. Among downsides: lower
quality of earnings (that increase in earnings is just an accounting
change, remember?). Kerschner sees an aggregate 5% to 6% boost for S&P
500 EPS. (GC)



9:09 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD is heading higher after failure to break
below $0.9262, the low for the year and level hit after the surprise Fed
cut triggered a huge stock rally on Jan. 3. EUR/USD is up to $0.9302
after falling as low as $0.9272. (CSE)



9:06 (Dow Jones) Lehman expects Veritas' (VRTS) Dec. quarter results
to be a penny, maybe two, ahead of expectations. Firm also believes
company may raise guidance, driven by strong fundamentals and healthy
demand by IT managers for company's clustering, server-less back-up, and
file system products. While concerns over declining IT spending remain,
Lehman says money is being spent on "must-have" and mission critical
software, which includes Veritas' data availability products. Reiterates
strong buy, price target $160. (TG)



8:59 (Dow Jones) You want it when? Results of Accenture's (formerly
Andersen Consulting) holiday B2C study: 67% of deliveries weren't
received as ordered, and 12% didn't make it by X-mas. Bricks-and-clicks
operators had better on-time deliveries than "pure play" e-tailers.
Accenture placed nearly 600 orders between Nov. 27-Dec. 4. on about 100
Web sites. (GC)



8:53 (Dow Jones) Standard & Poor's notes fact that corporate credit
defaults started rising in 2000 at a time when the economy was robust is
a concern. "Now that the economy is showing signs of slowing materially,
the more traditional business cycle deterioration in portfolios will
accelerate," says Robert Swanton, a director in S&P's U.S. Financial
Services Group. (TG)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Once again, Treasurys players clearly favor
curve-steepening trades, with everything but bills and two-year notes
trading under water. Wednesday's two-year auction could briefly
challenge the steepening trend, but not for long. As talk of the
economic slowdown/potential recession starts to gel in the collective
mind of the market, Treasurys will remain supported, and the steeper
curve will persist. (SV)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Arnhold's John Roque says tech/telecom can continue
to outperform for a while longer, perhaps until the FOMC meeting nezt
week. Why? Because the number of new highs on the NYSE has fallen
sharply. "We know this is a circuitous way of saying why tech/telecom
can outperform for a while longer, but if the number of new highs on the
NYSE is falling, then NYSE stocks should underperform," he says. Roque
notes new highs on the NYSE reached a peak of 386 on Dec. 28, and have
recently fallen to 107. (TG)



8:33 (Dow Jones) Weak data out of the eurozone and strong data out of
Japan earlier have helped to continue the trend of the last 2 weeks.
EUR/USD has dropped to $0.9279, while USD/JPY is down at Y116.58. (CSE)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks will fall at the open, and another
high-profile earnings warning may limit any chance of an upside reversal
Monday. Dell Computer (DELL) said 4Q earnings will be well below
expectations, at 18c-19c a share. It comes as little surprise the
company cited a slowdown in demand, but the latest estimates from Dell
come not long after it had projected earnings of 26c. That's precisely
why so many market observers are calling for more weakness in stocks -
while some analysts have argued the worst has been seen on the earnings
front, others say the profit trough has yet to come. Big week for
earnings, including American Express (AXP) and Texas Instruments (TXN)
today. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1m0272z




 MARKET TALK: Euro Not At Start Of Long Downturn, UBS Says 

1,113 words
22 January 2001
15:10
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:10 (Dow Jones) EUR slide may be worrying for some, but not for
economists at UBS Warburg. They say slide is still a correction
following sharp gains rather than "start of a prolonged downturn." (NEH)



10:05 (Dow Jones) American Depositary Receipts of Venezuelan consumer
products company Mavesa SA (MAV) are up 12.8% to $8.25 after Polar, the
country's largest brewer, offered to buy 65% of the company's shares at
$8.50 per ADR. (AG)



9:59 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch cut its 2001 target for the TSE 300
composite index, Canada's main stock benchmark, to 10,500 from 11,000
points, citing lower growth estimates for the global economy and limited
multiple expansion for the key index. The TSE 300 was recently trading
down 1.0% at 9068.90. (BED)



9:50 (Dow Jones) Stocks out to soft open, with technology moving
lower. Biotechs, retailers, and drugs show moderate strength. DJIA off
23 at 10568, Nasdaq drops 35 to 2735, and S&P 500 eases 2 to 1240. (TG)



9:43 (Dow Jones) Merrill has Texas Instruments (TXN) posting 4Q EPS of
33c later Monday, with no upside likely. But the possibility of a soft
1Q aside, firm says TI is the large-cap semiconductor name investors
should own for long-term. Meanwhile, Merrill says Vitesse (VTSS) should
report 24c a share later today, with moderate upside potential. (TG)



9:34 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude seen opening 20-25 cents a barrel lower,
correcting Friday's technical gains in volatile pre-expiry trade of Feb.
contract. Friday's strong close points to uptrend but Monday is Feb.
contract's "last trading day, so anything can happen," analyst says.
Feb. crude, down 19c to $32 on ACCESS, faces resistance at $32.40;
support is pegged at $31.40. March crude is down 14c to $30.05 overnight
in ACCESS trade. (MSX)



9:26 (Dow Jones) While CSFB, ABN Amro, and Robbie Stephens upgraded
Dell Computer (DELL) very recently, Merrill issues a note this morning
saying it expects Dell to pre-announce a miss for the January quarter
within the next two weeks. The firm underestimated the extent of Dell's
miss, though, as it lowered its 4Q estimate to 23c a share from 26c
(Dell earlier said it would post 18c-19c a share). Merrill reiterates
buy, and views any significant weakness in shares as buying opportunity.
(TG)



9:14 (Dow Jones) UBS' Ed Kerschner offers report this morning on
FASB's likely elimination of pooling accounting for M&A. Firms benefit
from higher earnings due to lack of goodwill amortization plus greater
asset value and higher shareholder equity. Among downsides: lower
quality of earnings (that increase in earnings is just an accounting
change, remember?). Kerschner sees an aggregate 5% to 6% boost for S&P
500 EPS. (GC)



9:09 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD is heading higher after failure to break
below $0.9262, the low for the year and level hit after the surprise Fed
cut triggered a huge stock rally on Jan. 3. EUR/USD is up to $0.9302
after falling as low as $0.9272. (CSE)



9:06 (Dow Jones) Lehman expects Veritas' (VRTS) Dec. quarter results
to be a penny, maybe two, ahead of expectations. Firm also believes
company may raise guidance, driven by strong fundamentals and healthy
demand by IT managers for company's clustering, server-less back-up, and
file system products. While concerns over declining IT spending remain,
Lehman says money is being spent on "must-have" and mission critical
software, which includes Veritas' data availability products. Reiterates
strong buy, price target $160. (TG)



8:59 (Dow Jones) You want it when? Results of Accenture's (formerly
Andersen Consulting) holiday B2C study: 67% of deliveries weren't
received as ordered, and 12% didn't make it by X-mas. Bricks-and-clicks
operators had better on-time deliveries than "pure play" e-tailers.
Accenture placed nearly 600 orders between Nov. 27-Dec. 4. on about 100
Web sites. (GC)



8:53 (Dow Jones) Standard & Poor's notes fact that corporate credit
defaults started rising in 2000 at a time when the economy was robust is
a concern. "Now that the economy is showing signs of slowing materially,
the more traditional business cycle deterioration in portfolios will
accelerate," says Robert Swanton, a director in S&P's U.S. Financial
Services Group. (TG)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Once again, Treasurys players clearly favor
curve-steepening trades, with everything but bills and two-year notes
trading under water. Wednesday's two-year auction could briefly
challenge the steepening trend, but not for long. As talk of the
economic slowdown/potential recession starts to gel in the collective
mind of the market, Treasurys will remain supported, and the steeper
curve will persist. (SV)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Arnhold's John Roque says tech/telecom can continue
to outperform for a while longer, perhaps until the FOMC meeting nezt
week. Why? Because the number of new highs on the NYSE has fallen
sharply. "We know this is a circuitous way of saying why tech/telecom
can outperform for a while longer, but if the number of new highs on the
NYSE is falling, then NYSE stocks should underperform," he says. Roque
notes new highs on the NYSE reached a peak of 386 on Dec. 28, and have
recently fallen to 107. (TG)



8:33 (Dow Jones) Weak data out of the eurozone and strong data out of
Japan earlier have helped to continue the trend of the last 2 weeks.
EUR/USD has dropped to $0.9279, while USD/JPY is down at Y116.58. (CSE)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks will fall at the open, and another
high-profile earnings warning may limit any chance of an upside reversal
Monday. Dell Computer (DELL) said 4Q earnings will be well below
expectations, at 18c-19c a share. It comes as little surprise the
company cited a slowdown in demand, but the latest estimates from Dell
come not long after it had projected earnings of 26c. That's precisely
why so many market observers are calling for more weakness in stocks -
while some analysts have argued the worst has been seen on the earnings
front, others say the profit trough has yet to come. Big week for
earnings, including American Express (AXP) and Texas Instruments (TXN)
today. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1m0271r




 MARKET TALK: Mavesa ADRs Get Bump On Polar Offer 

1,075 words
22 January 2001
15:06
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:05 (Dow Jones) American Depositary Receipts of Venezuelan consumer
products company Mavesa SA (MAV) are up 12.8% to $8.25 after Polar, the
country's largest brewer, offered to buy 65% of the company's shares at
$8.50 per ADR. (AG)



9:59 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch cut its 2001 target for the TSE 300
composite index, Canada's main stock benchmark, to 10,500 from 11,000
points, citing lower growth estimates for the global economy and limited
multiple expansion for the key index. The TSE 300 was recently trading
down 1.0% at 9068.90. (BED)



9:50 (Dow Jones) Stocks out to soft open, with technology moving
lower. Biotechs, retailers, and drugs show moderate strength. DJIA off
23 at 10568, Nasdaq drops 35 to 2735, and S&P 500 eases 2 to 1240. (TG)



9:43 (Dow Jones) Merrill has Texas Instruments (TXN) posting 4Q EPS of
33c later Monday, with no upside likely. But the possibility of a soft
1Q aside, firm says TI is the large-cap semiconductor name investors
should own for long-term. Meanwhile, Merrill says Vitesse (VTSS) should
report 24c a share later today, with moderate upside potential. (TG)



9:34 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude seen opening 20-25 cents a barrel lower,
correcting Friday's technical gains in volatile pre-expiry trade of Feb.
contract. Friday's strong close points to uptrend but Monday is Feb.
contract's "last trading day, so anything can happen," analyst says.
Feb. crude, down 19c to $32 on ACCESS, faces resistance at $32.40;
support is pegged at $31.40. March crude is down 14c to $30.05 overnight
in ACCESS trade. (MSX)



9:26 (Dow Jones) While CSFB, ABN Amro, and Robbie Stephens upgraded
Dell Computer (DELL) very recently, Merrill issues a note this morning
saying it expects Dell to pre-announce a miss for the January quarter
within the next two weeks. The firm underestimated the extent of Dell's
miss, though, as it lowered its 4Q estimate to 23c a share from 26c
(Dell earlier said it would post 18c-19c a share). Merrill reiterates
buy, and views any significant weakness in shares as buying opportunity.
(TG)



9:14 (Dow Jones) UBS' Ed Kerschner offers report this morning on
FASB's likely elimination of pooling accounting for M&A. Firms benefit
from higher earnings due to lack of goodwill amortization plus greater
asset value and higher shareholder equity. Among downsides: lower
quality of earnings (that increase in earnings is just an accounting
change, remember?). Kerschner sees an aggregate 5% to 6% boost for S&P
500 EPS. (GC)



9:09 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD is heading higher after failure to break
below $0.9262, the low for the year and level hit after the surprise Fed
cut triggered a huge stock rally on Jan. 3. EUR/USD is up to $0.9302
after falling as low as $0.9272. (CSE)



9:06 (Dow Jones) Lehman expects Veritas' (VRTS) Dec. quarter results
to be a penny, maybe two, ahead of expectations. Firm also believes
company may raise guidance, driven by strong fundamentals and healthy
demand by IT managers for company's clustering, server-less back-up, and
file system products. While concerns over declining IT spending remain,
Lehman says money is being spent on "must-have" and mission critical
software, which includes Veritas' data availability products. Reiterates
strong buy, price target $160. (TG)



8:59 (Dow Jones) You want it when? Results of Accenture's (formerly
Andersen Consulting) holiday B2C study: 67% of deliveries weren't
received as ordered, and 12% didn't make it by X-mas. Bricks-and-clicks
operators had better on-time deliveries than "pure play" e-tailers.
Accenture placed nearly 600 orders between Nov. 27-Dec. 4. on about 100
Web sites. (GC)



8:53 (Dow Jones) Standard & Poor's notes fact that corporate credit
defaults started rising in 2000 at a time when the economy was robust is
a concern. "Now that the economy is showing signs of slowing materially,
the more traditional business cycle deterioration in portfolios will
accelerate," says Robert Swanton, a director in S&P's U.S. Financial
Services Group. (TG)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Once again, Treasurys players clearly favor
curve-steepening trades, with everything but bills and two-year notes
trading under water. Wednesday's two-year auction could briefly
challenge the steepening trend, but not for long. As talk of the
economic slowdown/potential recession starts to gel in the collective
mind of the market, Treasurys will remain supported, and the steeper
curve will persist. (SV)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Arnhold's John Roque says tech/telecom can continue
to outperform for a while longer, perhaps until the FOMC meeting nezt
week. Why? Because the number of new highs on the NYSE has fallen
sharply. "We know this is a circuitous way of saying why tech/telecom
can outperform for a while longer, but if the number of new highs on the
NYSE is falling, then NYSE stocks should underperform," he says. Roque
notes new highs on the NYSE reached a peak of 386 on Dec. 28, and have
recently fallen to 107. (TG)



8:33 (Dow Jones) Weak data out of the eurozone and strong data out of
Japan earlier have helped to continue the trend of the last 2 weeks.
EUR/USD has dropped to $0.9279, while USD/JPY is down at Y116.58. (CSE)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks will fall at the open, and another
high-profile earnings warning may limit any chance of an upside reversal
Monday. Dell Computer (DELL) said 4Q earnings will be well below
expectations, at 18c-19c a share. It comes as little surprise the
company cited a slowdown in demand, but the latest estimates from Dell
come not long after it had projected earnings of 26c. That's precisely
why so many market observers are calling for more weakness in stocks -
while some analysts have argued the worst has been seen on the earnings
front, others say the profit trough has yet to come. Big week for
earnings, including American Express (AXP) and Texas Instruments (TXN)
today. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1m0271l




 MARKET TALK: Merrill Less Upbeat On Canada's Stock Market 

1,032 words
22 January 2001
15:00
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



9:59 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch cut its 2001 target for the TSE 300
composite index, Canada's main stock benchmark, to 10,500 from 11,000
points, citing lower growth estimates for the global economy and limited
multiple expansion for the key index. The TSE 300 was recently trading
down 1.0% at 9068.90. (BED)



9:50 (Dow Jones) Stocks out to soft open, with technology moving
lower. Biotechs, retailers, and drugs show moderate strength. DJIA off
23 at 10568, Nasdaq drops 35 to 2735, and S&P 500 eases 2 to 1240. (TG)



9:43 (Dow Jones) Merrill has Texas Instruments (TXN) posting 4Q EPS of
33c later Monday, with no upside likely. But the possibility of a soft
1Q aside, firm says TI is the large-cap semiconductor name investors
should own for long-term. Meanwhile, Merrill says Vitesse (VTSS) should
report 24c a share later today, with moderate upside potential. (TG)



9:34 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude seen opening 20-25 cents a barrel lower,
correcting Friday's technical gains in volatile pre-expiry trade of Feb.
contract. Friday's strong close points to uptrend but Monday is Feb.
contract's "last trading day, so anything can happen," analyst says.
Feb. crude, down 19c to $32 on ACCESS, faces resistance at $32.40;
support is pegged at $31.40. March crude is down 14c to $30.05 overnight
in ACCESS trade. (MSX)



9:26 (Dow Jones) While CSFB, ABN Amro, and Robbie Stephens upgraded
Dell Computer (DELL) very recently, Merrill issues a note this morning
saying it expects Dell to pre-announce a miss for the January quarter
within the next two weeks. The firm underestimated the extent of Dell's
miss, though, as it lowered its 4Q estimate to 23c a share from 26c
(Dell earlier said it would post 18c-19c a share). Merrill reiterates
buy, and views any significant weakness in shares as buying opportunity.
(TG)



9:14 (Dow Jones) UBS' Ed Kerschner offers report this morning on
FASB's likely elimination of pooling accounting for M&A. Firms benefit
from higher earnings due to lack of goodwill amortization plus greater
asset value and higher shareholder equity. Among downsides: lower
quality of earnings (that increase in earnings is just an accounting
change, remember?). Kerschner sees an aggregate 5% to 6% boost for S&P
500 EPS. (GC)



9:09 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD is heading higher after failure to break
below $0.9262, the low for the year and level hit after the surprise Fed
cut triggered a huge stock rally on Jan. 3. EUR/USD is up to $0.9302
after falling as low as $0.9272. (CSE)



9:06 (Dow Jones) Lehman expects Veritas' (VRTS) Dec. quarter results
to be a penny, maybe two, ahead of expectations. Firm also believes
company may raise guidance, driven by strong fundamentals and healthy
demand by IT managers for company's clustering, server-less back-up, and
file system products. While concerns over declining IT spending remain,
Lehman says money is being spent on "must-have" and mission critical
software, which includes Veritas' data availability products. Reiterates
strong buy, price target $160. (TG)



8:59 (Dow Jones) You want it when? Results of Accenture's (formerly
Andersen Consulting) holiday B2C study: 67% of deliveries weren't
received as ordered, and 12% didn't make it by X-mas. Bricks-and-clicks
operators had better on-time deliveries than "pure play" e-tailers.
Accenture placed nearly 600 orders between Nov. 27-Dec. 4. on about 100
Web sites. (GC)



8:53 (Dow Jones) Standard & Poor's notes fact that corporate credit
defaults started rising in 2000 at a time when the economy was robust is
a concern. "Now that the economy is showing signs of slowing materially,
the more traditional business cycle deterioration in portfolios will
accelerate," says Robert Swanton, a director in S&P's U.S. Financial
Services Group. (TG)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Once again, Treasurys players clearly favor
curve-steepening trades, with everything but bills and two-year notes
trading under water. Wednesday's two-year auction could briefly
challenge the steepening trend, but not for long. As talk of the
economic slowdown/potential recession starts to gel in the collective
mind of the market, Treasurys will remain supported, and the steeper
curve will persist. (SV)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Arnhold's John Roque says tech/telecom can continue
to outperform for a while longer, perhaps until the FOMC meeting nezt
week. Why? Because the number of new highs on the NYSE has fallen
sharply. "We know this is a circuitous way of saying why tech/telecom
can outperform for a while longer, but if the number of new highs on the
NYSE is falling, then NYSE stocks should underperform," he says. Roque
notes new highs on the NYSE reached a peak of 386 on Dec. 28, and have
recently fallen to 107. (TG)



8:33 (Dow Jones) Weak data out of the eurozone and strong data out of
Japan earlier have helped to continue the trend of the last 2 weeks.
EUR/USD has dropped to $0.9279, while USD/JPY is down at Y116.58. (CSE)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks will fall at the open, and another
high-profile earnings warning may limit any chance of an upside reversal
Monday. Dell Computer (DELL) said 4Q earnings will be well below
expectations, at 18c-19c a share. It comes as little surprise the
company cited a slowdown in demand, but the latest estimates from Dell
come not long after it had projected earnings of 26c. That's precisely
why so many market observers are calling for more weakness in stocks -
while some analysts have argued the worst has been seen on the earnings
front, others say the profit trough has yet to come. Big week for
earnings, including American Express (AXP) and Texas Instruments (TXN)
today. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1m0270r




 MARKET TALK: Nymex Crude To See Weakness Early On 

874 words
22 January 2001
14:34
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



9:34 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude seen opening 20-25 cents a barrel lower,
correcting Friday's technical gains in volatile pre-expiry trade of Feb.
contract. Friday's strong close points to uptrend but Monday is Feb.
contract's "last trading day, so anything can happen," analyst says.
Feb. crude, down 19c to $32 on ACCESS, faces resistance at $32.40;
support is pegged at $31.40. March crude is down 14c to $30.05 overnight
in ACCESS trade. (MSX)



9:26 (Dow Jones) While CSFB, ABN Amro, and Robbie Stephens upgraded
Dell Computer (DELL) very recently, Merrill issues a note this morning
saying it expects Dell to pre-announce a miss for the January quarter
within the next two weeks. The firm underestimated the extent of Dell's
miss, though, as it lowered its 4Q estimate to 23c a share from 26c
(Dell earlier said it would post 18c-19c a share). Merrill reiterates
buy, and views any significant weakness in shares as buying opportunity.
(TG)



9:14 (Dow Jones) UBS' Ed Kerschner offers report this morning on
FASB's likely elimination of pooling accounting for M&A. Firms benefit
from higher earnings due to lack of goodwill amortization plus greater
asset value and higher shareholder equity. Among downsides: lower
quality of earnings (that increase in earnings is just an accounting
change, remember?). Kerschner sees an aggregate 5% to 6% boost for S&P
500 EPS. (GC)



9:09 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD is heading higher after failure to break
below $0.9262, the low for the year and level hit after the surprise Fed
cut triggered a huge stock rally on Jan. 3. EUR/USD is up to $0.9302
after falling as low as $0.9272. (CSE)



9:06 (Dow Jones) Lehman expects Veritas' (VRTS) Dec. quarter results
to be a penny, maybe two, ahead of expectations. Firm also believes
company may raise guidance, driven by strong fundamentals and healthy
demand by IT managers for company's clustering, server-less back-up, and
file system products. While concerns over declining IT spending remain,
Lehman says money is being spent on "must-have" and mission critical
software, which includes Veritas' data availability products. Reiterates
strong buy, price target $160. (TG)



8:59 (Dow Jones) You want it when? Results of Accenture's (formerly
Andersen Consulting) holiday B2C study: 67% of deliveries weren't
received as ordered, and 12% didn't make it by X-mas. Bricks-and-clicks
operators had better on-time deliveries than "pure play" e-tailers.
Accenture placed nearly 600 orders between Nov. 27-Dec. 4. on about 100
Web sites. (GC)



8:53 (Dow Jones) Standard & Poor's notes fact that corporate credit
defaults started rising in 2000 at a time when the economy was robust is
a concern. "Now that the economy is showing signs of slowing materially,
the more traditional business cycle deterioration in portfolios will
accelerate," says Robert Swanton, a director in S&P's U.S. Financial
Services Group. (TG)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Once again, Treasurys players clearly favor
curve-steepening trades, with everything but bills and two-year notes
trading under water. Wednesday's two-year auction could briefly
challenge the steepening trend, but not for long. As talk of the
economic slowdown/potential recession starts to gel in the collective
mind of the market, Treasurys will remain supported, and the steeper
curve will persist. (SV)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Arnhold's John Roque says tech/telecom can continue
to outperform for a while longer, perhaps until the FOMC meeting nezt
week. Why? Because the number of new highs on the NYSE has fallen
sharply. "We know this is a circuitous way of saying why tech/telecom
can outperform for a while longer, but if the number of new highs on the
NYSE is falling, then NYSE stocks should underperform," he says. Roque
notes new highs on the NYSE reached a peak of 386 on Dec. 28, and have
recently fallen to 107. (TG)



8:33 (Dow Jones) Weak data out of the eurozone and strong data out of
Japan earlier have helped to continue the trend of the last 2 weeks.
EUR/USD has dropped to $0.9279, while USD/JPY is down at Y116.58. (CSE)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks will fall at the open, and another
high-profile earnings warning may limit any chance of an upside reversal
Monday. Dell Computer (DELL) said 4Q earnings will be well below
expectations, at 18c-19c a share. It comes as little surprise the
company cited a slowdown in demand, but the latest estimates from Dell
come not long after it had projected earnings of 26c. That's precisely
why so many market observers are calling for more weakness in stocks -
while some analysts have argued the worst has been seen on the earnings
front, others say the profit trough has yet to come. Big week for
earnings, including American Express (AXP) and Texas Instruments (TXN)
today. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1m026ye




 MARKET TALK: Merrill Saw Dell Miss Coming 

791 words
22 January 2001
14:27
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



9:26 (Dow Jones) While CSFB, ABN Amro, and Robbie Stephens upgraded
Dell Computer (DELL) very recently, Merrill issues a note this morning
saying it expects Dell to pre-announce a miss for the January quarter
within the next two weeks. The firm underestimated the extent of Dell's
miss, though, as it lowered its 4Q estimate to 23c a share from 26c
(Dell earlier said it would post 18c-19c a share). Merrill reiterates
buy, and views any significant weakness in shares as buying opportunity.
(TG)



9:14 (Dow Jones) UBS' Ed Kerschner offers report this morning on
FASB's likely elimination of pooling accounting for M&A. Firms benefit
from higher earnings due to lack of goodwill amortization plus greater
asset value and higher shareholder equity. Among downsides: lower
quality of earnings (that increase in earnings is just an accounting
change, remember?). Kerschner sees an aggregate 5% to 6% boost for S&P
500 EPS. (GC)



9:09 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD is heading higher after failure to break
below $0.9262, the low for the year and level hit after the surprise Fed
cut triggered a huge stock rally on Jan. 3. EUR/USD is up to $0.9302
after falling as low as $0.9272. (CSE)



9:06 (Dow Jones) Lehman expects Veritas' (VRTS) Dec. quarter results
to be a penny, maybe two, ahead of expectations. Firm also believes
company may raise guidance, driven by strong fundamentals and healthy
demand by IT managers for company's clustering, server-less back-up, and
file system products. While concerns over declining IT spending remain,
Lehman says money is being spent on "must-have" and mission critical
software, which includes Veritas' data availability products. Reiterates
strong buy, price target $160. (TG)



8:59 (Dow Jones) You want it when? Results of Accenture's (formerly
Andersen Consulting) holiday B2C study: 67% of deliveries weren't
received as ordered, and 12% didn't make it by X-mas. Bricks-and-clicks
operators had better on-time deliveries than "pure play" e-tailers.
Accenture placed nearly 600 orders between Nov. 27-Dec. 4. on about 100
Web sites. (GC)



8:53 (Dow Jones) Standard & Poor's notes fact that corporate credit
defaults started rising in 2000 at a time when the economy was robust is
a concern. "Now that the economy is showing signs of slowing materially,
the more traditional business cycle deterioration in portfolios will
accelerate," says Robert Swanton, a director in S&P's U.S. Financial
Services Group. (TG)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Once again, Treasurys players clearly favor
curve-steepening trades, with everything but bills and two-year notes
trading under water. Wednesday's two-year auction could briefly
challenge the steepening trend, but not for long. As talk of the
economic slowdown/potential recession starts to gel in the collective
mind of the market, Treasurys will remain supported, and the steeper
curve will persist. (SV)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Arnhold's John Roque says tech/telecom can continue
to outperform for a while longer, perhaps until the FOMC meeting nezt
week. Why? Because the number of new highs on the NYSE has fallen
sharply. "We know this is a circuitous way of saying why tech/telecom
can outperform for a while longer, but if the number of new highs on the
NYSE is falling, then NYSE stocks should underperform," he says. Roque
notes new highs on the NYSE reached a peak of 386 on Dec. 28, and have
recently fallen to 107. (TG)



8:33 (Dow Jones) Weak data out of the eurozone and strong data out of
Japan earlier have helped to continue the trend of the last 2 weeks.
EUR/USD has dropped to $0.9279, while USD/JPY is down at Y116.58. (CSE)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks will fall at the open, and another
high-profile earnings warning may limit any chance of an upside reversal
Monday. Dell Computer (DELL) said 4Q earnings will be well below
expectations, at 18c-19c a share. It comes as little surprise the
company cited a slowdown in demand, but the latest estimates from Dell
come not long after it had projected earnings of 26c. That's precisely
why so many market observers are calling for more weakness in stocks -
while some analysts have argued the worst has been seen on the earnings
front, others say the profit trough has yet to come. Big week for
earnings, including American Express (AXP) and Texas Instruments (TXN)
today. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1m026xo




 MARKET TALK: Euro Headed Higher Against The Dollar 

632 words
22 January 2001
14:09
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



9:09 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD is heading higher after failure to break
below $0.9262, the low for the year and level hit after the surprise Fed
cut triggered a huge stock rally on Jan. 3. EUR/USD is up to $0.9302
after falling as low as $0.9272. (CSE)



9:06 (Dow Jones) Lehman expects Veritas' (VRTS) Dec. quarter results
to be a penny, maybe two, ahead of expectations. Firm also believes
company may raise guidance, driven by strong fundamentals and healthy
demand by IT managers for company's clustering, server-less back-up, and
file system products. While concerns over declining IT spending remain,
Lehman says money is being spent on "must-have" and mission critical
software, which includes Veritas' data availability products. Reiterates
strong buy, price target $160. (TG)



8:59 (Dow Jones) You want it when? Results of Accenture's (formerly
Andersen Consulting) holiday B2C study: 67% of deliveries weren't
received as ordered, and 12% didn't make it by X-mas. Bricks-and-clicks
operators had better on-time deliveries than "pure play" e-tailers.
Accenture placed nearly 600 orders between Nov. 27-Dec. 4. on about 100
Web sites. (GC)



8:53 (Dow Jones) Standard & Poor's notes fact that corporate credit
defaults started rising in 2000 at a time when the economy was robust is
a concern. "Now that the economy is showing signs of slowing materially,
the more traditional business cycle deterioration in portfolios will
accelerate," says Robert Swanton, a director in S&P's U.S. Financial
Services Group. (TG)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Once again, Treasurys players clearly favor
curve-steepening trades, with everything but bills and two-year notes
trading under water. Wednesday's two-year auction could briefly
challenge the steepening trend, but not for long. As talk of the
economic slowdown/potential recession starts to gel in the collective
mind of the market, Treasurys will remain supported, and the steeper
curve will persist. (SV)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Arnhold's John Roque says tech/telecom can continue
to outperform for a while longer, perhaps until the FOMC meeting nezt
week. Why? Because the number of new highs on the NYSE has fallen
sharply. "We know this is a circuitous way of saying why tech/telecom
can outperform for a while longer, but if the number of new highs on the
NYSE is falling, then NYSE stocks should underperform," he says. Roque
notes new highs on the NYSE reached a peak of 386 on Dec. 28, and have
recently fallen to 107. (TG)



8:33 (Dow Jones) Weak data out of the eurozone and strong data out of
Japan earlier have helped to continue the trend of the last 2 weeks.
EUR/USD has dropped to $0.9279, while USD/JPY is down at Y116.58. (CSE)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks will fall at the open, and another
high-profile earnings warning may limit any chance of an upside reversal
Monday. Dell Computer (DELL) said 4Q earnings will be well below
expectations, at 18c-19c a share. It comes as little surprise the
company cited a slowdown in demand, but the latest estimates from Dell
come not long after it had projected earnings of 26c. That's precisely
why so many market observers are calling for more weakness in stocks -
while some analysts have argued the worst has been seen on the earnings
front, others say the profit trough has yet to come. Big week for
earnings, including American Express (AXP) and Texas Instruments (TXN)
today. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1m026w0




 MARKET TALK: Lehman Sees Upside In Veritas Quarter 

580 words
22 January 2001
14:06
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



9:06 (Dow Jones) Lehman expects Veritas' (VRTS) Dec. quarter results
to be a penny, maybe two, ahead of expectations. Firm also believes
company may raise guidance, driven by strong fundamentals and healthy
demand by IT managers for company's clustering, server-less back-up, and
file system products. While concerns over declining IT spending remain,
Lehman says money is being spent on "must-have" and mission critical
software, which includes Veritas' data availability products. Reiterates
strong buy, price target $160. (TG)



8:59 (Dow Jones) You want it when? Results of Accenture's (formerly
Andersen Consulting) holiday B2C study: 67% of deliveries weren't
received as ordered, and 12% didn't make it by X-mas. Bricks-and-clicks
operators had better on-time deliveries than "pure play" e-tailers.
Accenture placed nearly 600 orders between Nov. 27-Dec. 4. on about 100
Web sites. (GC)



8:53 (Dow Jones) Standard & Poor's notes fact that corporate credit
defaults started rising in 2000 at a time when the economy was robust is
a concern. "Now that the economy is showing signs of slowing materially,
the more traditional business cycle deterioration in portfolios will
accelerate," says Robert Swanton, a director in S&P's U.S. Financial
Services Group. (TG)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Once again, Treasurys players clearly favor
curve-steepening trades, with everything but bills and two-year notes
trading under water. Wednesday's two-year auction could briefly
challenge the steepening trend, but not for long. As talk of the
economic slowdown/potential recession starts to gel in the collective
mind of the market, Treasurys will remain supported, and the steeper
curve will persist. (SV)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Arnhold's John Roque says tech/telecom can continue
to outperform for a while longer, perhaps until the FOMC meeting nezt
week. Why? Because the number of new highs on the NYSE has fallen
sharply. "We know this is a circuitous way of saying why tech/telecom
can outperform for a while longer, but if the number of new highs on the
NYSE is falling, then NYSE stocks should underperform," he says. Roque
notes new highs on the NYSE reached a peak of 386 on Dec. 28, and have
recently fallen to 107. (TG)



8:33 (Dow Jones) Weak data out of the eurozone and strong data out of
Japan earlier have helped to continue the trend of the last 2 weeks.
EUR/USD has dropped to $0.9279, while USD/JPY is down at Y116.58. (CSE)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks will fall at the open, and another
high-profile earnings warning may limit any chance of an upside reversal
Monday. Dell Computer (DELL) said 4Q earnings will be well below
expectations, at 18c-19c a share. It comes as little surprise the
company cited a slowdown in demand, but the latest estimates from Dell
come not long after it had projected earnings of 26c. That's precisely
why so many market observers are calling for more weakness in stocks -
while some analysts have argued the worst has been seen on the earnings
front, others say the profit trough has yet to come. Big week for
earnings, including American Express (AXP) and Texas Instruments (TXN)
today. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1m026vp




 MARKET TALK: X-Mas Present Just In Time For Valentine's 

501 words
22 January 2001
13:59
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



8:59 (Dow Jones) You want it when? Results of Accenture's (formerly
Andersen Consulting) holiday B2C study: 67% of deliveries weren't
received as ordered, and 12% didn't make it by X-mas. Bricks-and-clicks
operators had better on-time deliveries than "pure play" e-tailers.
Accenture placed nearly 600 orders betwen Nov. 27-Dec. 4. on about 100
Web sites. (GC)



8:53 (Dow Jones) Standard & Poor's notes fact that corporate credit
defaults started rising in 2000 at a time when the economy was robust is
a concern. "Now that the economy is showing signs of slowing materially,
the more traditional business cycle deterioration in portfolios will
accelerate," says Robert Swanton, a director in S&P's U.S. Financial
Services Group. (TG)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Once again, Treasurys players clearly favor
curve-steepening trades, with everything but bills and two-year notes
trading under water. Wednesday's two-year auction could briefly
challenge the steepening trend, but not for long. As talk of the
economic slowdown/potential recession starts to gel in the collective
mind of the market, Treasurys will remain supported, and the steeper
curve will persist. (SV)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Arnhold's John Roque says tech/telecom can continue
to outperform for a while longer, perhaps until the FOMC meeting nezt
week. Why? Because the number of new highs on the NYSE has fallen
sharply. "We know this is a circuitous way of saying why tech/telecom
can outperform for a while longer, but if the number of new highs on the
NYSE is falling, then NYSE stocks should underperform," he says. Roque
notes new highs on the NYSE reached a peak of 386 on Dec. 28, and have
recently fallen to 107. (TG)



8:33 (Dow Jones) Weak data out of the eurozone and strong data out of
Japan earlier have helped to continue the trend of the last 2 weeks.
EUR/USD has dropped to $0.9279, while USD/JPY is down at Y116.58. (CSE)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks will fall at the open, and another
high-profile earnings warning may limit any chance of an upside reversal
Monday. Dell Computer (DELL) said 4Q earnings will be well below
expectations, at 18c-19c a share. It comes as little surprise the
company cited a slowdown in demand, but the latest estimates from Dell
come not long after it had projected earnings of 26c. That's precisely
why so many market observers are calling for more weakness in stocks -
while some analysts have argued the worst has been seen on the earnings
front, others say the profit trough has yet to come. Big week for
earnings, including American Express (AXP) and Texas Instruments (TXN)
today. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1m026ub




 MARKET TALK: More Deterioration As Economy Cools 

432 words
22 January 2001
13:54
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



8:53 (Dow Jones) Standard & Poor's notes fact that corporate credit
defaults started rising in 2000 at a time when the economy was robust is
a concern. "Now that the economy is showing signs of slowing materially,
the more traditional business cycle deterioration in portfolios will
accelerate," says Robert Swanton, a director in S&P's U.S. Financial
Services Group. (TG)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Once again, Treasurys players clearly favor
curve-steepening trades, with everything but bills and two-year notes
trading under water. Wednesday's two-year auction could briefly
challenge the steepening trend, but not for long. As talk of the
economic slowdown/potential recession starts to gel in the collective
mind of the market, Treasurys will remain supported, and the steeper
curve will persist. (SV)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Arnhold's John Roque says tech/telecom can continue
to outperform for a while longer, perhaps until the FOMC meeting nezt
week. Why? Because the number of new highs on the NYSE has fallen
sharply. "We know this is a circuitous way of saying why tech/telecom
can outperform for a while longer, but if the number of new highs on the
NYSE is falling, then NYSE stocks should underperform," he says. Roque
notes new highs on the NYSE reached a peak of 386 on Dec. 28, and have
recently fallen to 107. (TG)



8:33 (Dow Jones) Weak data out of the eurozone and strong data out of
Japan earlier have helped to continue the trend of the last 2 weeks.
EUR/USD has dropped to $0.9279, while USD/JPY is down at Y116.58. (CSE)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks will fall at the open, and another
high-profile earnings warning may limit any chance of an upside reversal
Monday. Dell Computer (DELL) said 4Q earnings will be well below
expectations, at 18c-19c a share. It comes as little surprise the
company cited a slowdown in demand, but the latest estimates from Dell
come not long after it had projected earnings of 26c. That's precisely
why so many market observers are calling for more weakness in stocks -
while some analysts have argued the worst has been seen on the earnings
front, others say the profit trough has yet to come. Big week for
earnings, including American Express (AXP) and Texas Instruments (TXN)
today. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1m026tt




 MARKET TALK: Short-End Of Tsys Get Some Support 

369 words
22 January 2001
13:46
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



8:45 (Dow Jones) Once again, Treasurys players clearly favor
curve-steepening trades, with everything but bills and two-year notes
trading under water. Wednesday's two-year auction could briefly
challenge the steepening trend, but not for long. As talk of the
economic slowdown/potential recession starts to gel in the collective
mind of the market, Treasurys will remain supported, and the steeper
curve will persist. (SV)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Arnhold's John Roque says tech/telecom can continue
to outperform for a while longer, perhaps until the FOMC meeting nezt
week. Why? Because the number of new highs on the NYSE has fallen
sharply. "We know this is a circuitous way of saying why tech/telecom
can outperform for a while longer, but if the number of new highs on the
NYSE is falling, then NYSE stocks should underperform," he says. Roque
notes new highs on the NYSE reached a peak of 386 on Dec. 28, and have
recently fallen to 107. (TG)



8:33 (Dow Jones) Weak data out of the eurozone and strong data out of
Japan earlier have helped to continue the trend of the last 2 weeks.
EUR/USD has dropped to $0.9279, while USD/JPY is down at Y116.58. (CSE)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks will fall at the open, and another
high-profile earnings warning may limit any chance of an upside reversal
Monday. Dell Computer (DELL) said 4Q earnings will be well below
expectations, at 18c-19c a share. It comes as little surprise the
company cited a slowdown in demand, but the latest estimates from Dell
come not long after it had projected earnings of 26c. That's precisely
why so many market observers are calling for more weakness in stocks -
while some analysts have argued the worst has been seen on the earnings
front, others say the profit trough has yet to come. Big week for
earnings, including American Express (AXP) and Texas Instruments (TXN)
today. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1m026te




 MARKET TALK: Recent Forex Trends Still In Place 

202 words
22 January 2001
13:33
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



8:33 (Dow Jones) Weak data out of the eurozone and strong data out of
Japan earlier have helped to continue the trend of the last 2 weeks.
EUR/USD has dropped to $0.9279, while USD/JPY is down at Y116.58. (CSE)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks will fall at the open, and another
high-profile earnings warning may limit any chance of an upside reversal
Monday. Dell Computer (DELL) said 4Q earnings will be well below
expectations, at 18c-19c a share. It comes as little surprise the
company cited a slowdown in demand, but the latest estimates from Dell
come not long after it had projected earnings of 26c. That's precisely
why so many market observers are calling for more weakness in stocks -
while some analysts have argued the worst has been seen on the earnings
front, others say the profit trough has yet to come. Big week for
earnings, including American Express (AXP) and Texas Instruments (TXN)
today. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1m026s5




 MARKET TALK: TXN 4Q Looks Soft; Still Waiting On CA 

1,176 words
22 January 2001
21:41
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



4:40 (Dow Jones) Texas Instruments' (TXN) 4Q looks 2 cents shy, and
company's outlook for 1Q calls for 10% drop in revenue from 4Q. Computer
Associates (CA) halted, but earnings not yet released. (TG)



4:22 (Dow Jones) The initial read on FreeMarkets Inc.'s (FMKT) 4Q
results is good. Revenue of $34.5M topped Wall Street consensus for
$31.22M. Loss of 27c a share, excluding non-cash items, was 4c narrower
than 31c-a-share First Call/Thomson Financial consensus. (RS)



4:17 (Dow Jones) FCC's ruling that cable operators don't have to carry
TV station's regular as well as digital copy is no surprise, so Digital
TV rollout will take even longer (if that's possible.) Paxson (PAX) and
Sinclair Broadcasting (SBGI), which are helping pioneer digital, might
suffer, but other broadcasters unlikely to be much affected, says UBS'
Lee Westerfield in an afternoon note. (GC)



4:10 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps could be in deeper trouble if they fail to
rally Tuesday above 1369 - a double top from Jan. 3 and Jan 19, said an
off-floor trader. "We've had plenty of powder, but yet we did nothing,"
he said, referring to the index futures in general, which tried but
failed to sustain gains on Monday despite the strong possiblity of
interest rate cuts. (ZHS)



4:03 (Dow Jones) Stocks close out mixed, quiet session generally
softer. Dell warning shaved a bit off PC group, American Express weighs
on DJIA. Now market turns attention to Texas Instruments and Computer
Associates after the close. After big rally so far this year, techs may
need time to consolidate, some observers say. Big up day for banks,
retailers, biotechs. Tuesday another big day for profit reports,
including Compaq, EMC and Merck. DJIA drops 8 to 10581, Nasdaq slips 12
to 2758, and S&P flat at 1342 (preliminary). (TG)



3:45 (Dow Jones) Some of President Bush's top officials said earlier
Monday that California should solve its own energy problems. However,
with the state accounting for 1/8 of GDP, others argue its problems will
be shared. As a point of exercise, Credit Suisse First Boston Economist
Neal Soss said if one assumes that electricity is vital to all that
makes up the GDP, a total shutdown in California's production for one
day will cut GDP growth by 0.5%. While a total halt is highly unlikely,
minor disruptions are surely occuring. (CCC)



3:40 (Dow Jones) The licensing arm of the National Football League has
demanded that PepsiCo (PEP) pull its latest TV ad for the Pepsi One diet
drink off the air and permanently stop using it, according to a letter
obtained by Dow Jones Newswires. The organization, known as NFL
Properties, accuses PepsiCo of unlawfully using trademarks of the
Chicago Bears in the popular spot starring "Sex and the City" actress
Kim Cattrall. An NFL spokesman says the sports league is currently
evaluating Pepsi's response to the letter. He would not elaborate.
Meanwhile, the ad continues to run. (CEG)



3:32 (Dow Jones) The American Stock Exchange is preparing to launch
Tuesday a new volatity Index based on options on the Nasdaq 100 Trust,
commonly called the QQQ. The index will be an investor sentiment
indicator about the future volatility of the QQQ, which shadows the 100
largest non-financial stocks in the Nasdaq. Other options exchanges also
have been working on such a volatility index, market watchers say, which
more accurately reflect investor sentiment about volatile tech issues.
(KXT)



3:22 (Dow Jones) Government auctions of broadcast spectrum should push
federal surpluses even higher, said JP Morgan analysts. Recent auction
yielded bids around $17 billion. "This money, far in excess of the $3.9
billion of spectrum auction receipts the CBO assumed in its FY2001
surplus projection, will go far to offset any decline in tax receipts
due to the economic slowdown," the economists said. "The outcome of this
most recent sale has raised expectations for the next spectrum auction,
scheduled for this spring." (HJP)



3:17 (Dow Jones) Treasurys are pulling themselves across the New York
finishing line amid some notable curve steepening led by losses in the
back end. The 10-year has dropped 13/32 to 5.23%, while the 30-year fell
28/32 to yield 5.61%. Traders are betting on aggressive Fed easing, and
that's supported the front-end, while back-end issues suffered from
worries over a slowing economy coupled with technical pressures. (MSD)



3:07 (Dow Jones) Lehman cuts 2000 EPS view on Immunex (IMNX) to 28c
from 29c, and 2001 view to 29c from 30c, but maintains buy rating. Firm
lowers Enbrel revenue estimate for the 4Q and for 2001 based on current
perception of the manufacturing constraints at Immunex. "We continue to
be optimistic that Immunex may obtain additional capacity by mid-year,
however the impact of this capacity will clearly be less than if they
had it in hand today," Lehman said in a research note. (TG)



2:50 (Dow Jones) Angel investing - a start-up company's initial
investment, usually from wealthy individuals - hasn't slowed down
despite the downturn in the public markets. Angel investors funded 236%
more companies in 2000 than in 1996, and, on average, gave each company
$350,000, according to a survey from the Angel Advisor magazine's Angel
Network Activity Survey. Angel investing has grown at a 35% annual rate
since 1996, the survey says. (RJH)



2:40 (Dow Jones) U.S. economy has no doubt slowed sharply, but Merrill
chief economist Bruce Steinberg rejects talk of recession. He does
believe recent mix of economic data justify another 50 basis-point ease
by the Fed on Jan. 31. (TG)



2:27 (Dow Jones) The government racked up a $32.67B surplus in
December, a little bit smaller than expected. The 1Q deficit of the
government's fiscal year was $2.35B, which was better than the $20.28B
deficit seen in the 1Q of fiscal year 2000. (MSD)



2:23 (Dow Jones) Crude oil's rise contributing to worries about
inflationary pressures and to long bond's sagging price. Crude for Feb.
delivery in N.Y. up 45 cents to $32.64. 30-year down 25/32 at 109 6/32,
yield up 5 bp at 5.61% (JNP)



2:16 (Dow Jones) IPO action returns to the market later this week,
probably Thursday and Friday, and one minor point has some observers
optimistic. Not one of the three companies on the docket - Align
Technology, Peet's Coffee and Tea, and Xenogen - has yet seen fit to
lower the price range for its deal. When we last left the IPO market in
December, companies had to cut terms dramatically to attract any
interest. (RJH)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1m025hm




 MARKET TALK: FreeMarkets' 4Q Looks Good 

1,136 words
22 January 2001
21:23
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



4:22 (Dow Jones) The initial read on FreeMarkets Inc.'s (FMKT) 4Q
results is good. Revenue of $34.5M topped Wall Street consensus for
$31.22M. Loss of 27c a share, excluding non-cash items, was 4c narrower
than 31c-a-share First Call/Thomson Financial consensus. (RS)



4:17 (Dow Jones) FCC's ruling that cable operators don't have to carry
TV station's regular as well as digital copy is no surprise, so Digital
TV rollout will take even longer (if that's possible.) Paxson (PAX) and
Sinclair Broadcasting (SBGI), which are helping pioneer digital, might
suffer, but other broadcasters unlikely to be much affected, says UBS'
Lee Westerfield in an afternoon note. (GC)



4:10 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps could be in deeper trouble if they fail to
rally Tuesday above 1369 - a double top from Jan. 3 and Jan 19, said an
off-floor trader. "We've had plenty of powder, but yet we did nothing,"
he said, referring to the index futures in general, which tried but
failed to sustain gains on Monday despite the strong possiblity of
interest rate cuts. (ZHS)



4:03 (Dow Jones) Stocks close out mixed, quiet session generally
softer. Dell warning shaved a bit off PC group, American Express weighs
on DJIA. Now market turns attention to Texas Instruments and Computer
Associates after the close. After big rally so far this year, techs may
need time to consolidate, some observers say. Big up day for banks,
retailers, biotechs. Tuesday another big day for profit reports,
including Compaq, EMC and Merck. DJIA drops 8 to 10581, Nasdaq slips 12
to 2758, and S&P flat at 1342 (preliminary). (TG)



3:45 (Dow Jones) Some of President Bush's top officials said earlier
Monday that California should solve its own energy problems. However,
with the state accounting for 1/8 of GDP, others argue its problems will
be shared. As a point of exercise, Credit Suisse First Boston Economist
Neal Soss said if one assumes that electricity is vital to all that
makes up the GDP, a total shutdown in California's production for one
day will cut GDP growth by 0.5%. While a total halt is highly unlikely,
minor disruptions are surely occuring. (CCC)



3:40 (Dow Jones) The licensing arm of the National Football League has
demanded that PepsiCo (PEP) pull its latest TV ad for the Pepsi One diet
drink off the air and permanently stop using it, according to a letter
obtained by Dow Jones Newswires. The organization, known as NFL
Properties, accuses PepsiCo of unlawfully using trademarks of the
Chicago Bears in the popular spot starring "Sex and the City" actress
Kim Cattrall. An NFL spokesman says the sports league is currently
evaluating Pepsi's response to the letter. He would not elaborate.
Meanwhile, the ad continues to run. (CEG)



3:32 (Dow Jones) The American Stock Exchange is preparing to launch
Tuesday a new volatity Index based on options on the Nasdaq 100 Trust,
commonly called the QQQ. The index will be an investor sentiment
indicator about the future volatility of the QQQ, which shadows the 100
largest non-financial stocks in the Nasdaq. Other options exchanges also
have been working on such a volatility index, market watchers say, which
more accurately reflect investor sentiment about volatile tech issues.
(KXT)



3:22 (Dow Jones) Government auctions of broadcast spectrum should push
federal surpluses even higher, said JP Morgan analysts. Recent auction
yielded bids around $17 billion. "This money, far in excess of the $3.9
billion of spectrum auction receipts the CBO assumed in its FY2001
surplus projection, will go far to offset any decline in tax receipts
due to the economic slowdown," the economists said. "The outcome of this
most recent sale has raised expectations for the next spectrum auction,
scheduled for this spring." (HJP)



3:17 (Dow Jones) Treasurys are pulling themselves across the New York
finishing line amid some notable curve steepening led by losses in the
back end. The 10-year has dropped 13/32 to 5.23%, while the 30-year fell
28/32 to yield 5.61%. Traders are betting on aggressive Fed easing, and
that's supported the front-end, while back-end issues suffered from
worries over a slowing economy coupled with technical pressures. (MSD)



3:07 (Dow Jones) Lehman cuts 2000 EPS view on Immunex (IMNX) to 28c
from 29c, and 2001 view to 29c from 30c, but maintains buy rating. Firm
lowers Enbrel revenue estimate for the 4Q and for 2001 based on current
perception of the manufacturing constraints at Immunex. "We continue to
be optimistic that Immunex may obtain additional capacity by mid-year,
however the impact of this capacity will clearly be less than if they
had it in hand today," Lehman said in a research note. (TG)



2:50 (Dow Jones) Angel investing - a start-up company's initial
investment, usually from wealthy individuals - hasn't slowed down
despite the downturn in the public markets. Angel investors funded 236%
more companies in 2000 than in 1996, and, on average, gave each company
$350,000, according to a survey from the Angel Advisor magazine's Angel
Network Activity Survey. Angel investing has grown at a 35% annual rate
since 1996, the survey says. (RJH)



2:40 (Dow Jones) U.S. economy has no doubt slowed sharply, but Merrill
chief economist Bruce Steinberg rejects talk of recession. He does
believe recent mix of economic data justify another 50 basis-point ease
by the Fed on Jan. 31. (TG)



2:27 (Dow Jones) The government racked up a $32.67B surplus in
December, a little bit smaller than expected. The 1Q deficit of the
government's fiscal year was $2.35B, which was better than the $20.28B
deficit seen in the 1Q of fiscal year 2000. (MSD)



2:23 (Dow Jones) Crude oil's rise contributing to worries about
inflationary pressures and to long bond's sagging price. Crude for Feb.
delivery in N.Y. up 45 cents to $32.64. 30-year down 25/32 at 109 6/32,
yield up 5 bp at 5.61% (JNP)



2:16 (Dow Jones) IPO action returns to the market later this week,
probably Thursday and Friday, and one minor point has some observers
optimistic. Not one of the three companies on the docket - Align
Technology, Peet's Coffee and Tea, and Xenogen - has yet seen fit to
lower the price range for its deal. When we last left the IPO market in
December, companies had to cut terms dramatically to attract any
interest. (RJH)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1m025fu




 MARKET TALK: Digital TV Rollout May Be Delayed Further 

1,090 words
22 January 2001
21:17
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



4:17 (Dow Jones) FCC's ruling that cable operators don't have to carry
TV station's regular as well as digital copy is no surprise, so Digital
TV rollout will take even longer (if that's possible.) Paxson (PAX) and
Sinclair Broadcasting (SBGI), which are helping pioneer digital, might
suffer, but other broadcasters unlikely to be much affected, says UBS'
Lee Westerfield in an afternoon note. (GC)



4:10 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps could be in deeper trouble if they fail to
rally Tuesday above 1369 - a double top from Jan. 3 and Jan 19, said an
off-floor trader. "We've had plenty of powder, but yet we did nothing,"
he said, referring to the index futures in general, which tried but
failed to sustain gains on Monday despite the strong possiblity of
interest rate cuts. (ZHS)



4:03 (Dow Jones) Stocks close out mixed, quiet session generally
softer. Dell warning shaved a bit off PC group, American Express weighs
on DJIA. Now market turns attention to Texas Instruments and Computer
Associates after the close. After big rally so far this year, techs may
need time to consolidate, some observers say. Big up day for banks,
retailers, biotechs. Tuesday another big day for profit reports,
including Compaq, EMC and Merck. DJIA drops 8 to 10581, Nasdaq slips 12
to 2758, and S&P flat at 1342 (preliminary). (TG)



3:45 (Dow Jones) Some of President Bush's top officials said earlier
Monday that California should solve its own energy problems. However,
with the state accounting for 1/8 of GDP, others argue its problems will
be shared. As a point of exercise, Credit Suisse First Boston Economist
Neal Soss said if one assumes that electricity is vital to all that
makes up the GDP, a total shutdown in California's production for one
day will cut GDP growth by 0.5%. While a total halt is highly unlikely,
minor disruptions are surely occuring. (CCC)



3:40 (Dow Jones) The licensing arm of the National Football League has
demanded that PepsiCo (PEP) pull its latest TV ad for the Pepsi One diet
drink off the air and permanently stop using it, according to a letter
obtained by Dow Jones Newswires. The organization, known as NFL
Properties, accuses PepsiCo of unlawfully using trademarks of the
Chicago Bears in the popular spot starring "Sex and the City" actress
Kim Cattrall. An NFL spokesman says the sports league is currently
evaluating Pepsi's response to the letter. He would not elaborate.
Meanwhile, the ad continues to run. (CEG)



3:32 (Dow Jones) The American Stock Exchange is preparing to launch
Tuesday a new volatity Index based on options on the Nasdaq 100 Trust,
commonly called the QQQ. The index will be an investor sentiment
indicator about the future volatility of the QQQ, which shadows the 100
largest non-financial stocks in the Nasdaq. Other options exchanges also
have been working on such a volatility index, market watchers say, which
more accurately reflect investor sentiment about volatile tech issues.
(KXT)



3:22 (Dow Jones) Government auctions of broadcast spectrum should push
federal surpluses even higher, said JP Morgan analysts. Recent auction
yielded bids around $17 billion. "This money, far in excess of the $3.9
billion of spectrum auction receipts the CBO assumed in its FY2001
surplus projection, will go far to offset any decline in tax receipts
due to the economic slowdown," the economists said. "The outcome of this
most recent sale has raised expectations for the next spectrum auction,
scheduled for this spring." (HJP)



3:17 (Dow Jones) Treasurys are pulling themselves across the New York
finishing line amid some notable curve steepening led by losses in the
back end. The 10-year has dropped 13/32 to 5.23%, while the 30-year fell
28/32 to yield 5.61%. Traders are betting on aggressive Fed easing, and
that's supported the front-end, while back-end issues suffered from
worries over a slowing economy coupled with technical pressures. (MSD)



3:07 (Dow Jones) Lehman cuts 2000 EPS view on Immunex (IMNX) to 28c
from 29c, and 2001 view to 29c from 30c, but maintains buy rating. Firm
lowers Enbrel revenue estimate for the 4Q and for 2001 based on current
perception of the manufacturing constraints at Immunex. "We continue to
be optimistic that Immunex may obtain additional capacity by mid-year,
however the impact of this capacity will clearly be less than if they
had it in hand today," Lehman said in a research note. (TG)



2:50 (Dow Jones) Angel investing - a start-up company's initial
investment, usually from wealthy individuals - hasn't slowed down
despite the downturn in the public markets. Angel investors funded 236%
more companies in 2000 than in 1996, and, on average, gave each company
$350,000, according to a survey from the Angel Advisor magazine's Angel
Network Activity Survey. Angel investing has grown at a 35% annual rate
since 1996, the survey says. (RJH)



2:40 (Dow Jones) U.S. economy has no doubt slowed sharply, but Merrill
chief economist Bruce Steinberg rejects talk of recession. He does
believe recent mix of economic data justify another 50 basis-point ease
by the Fed on Jan. 31. (TG)



2:27 (Dow Jones) The government racked up a $32.67B surplus in
December, a little bit smaller than expected. The 1Q deficit of the
government's fiscal year was $2.35B, which was better than the $20.28B
deficit seen in the 1Q of fiscal year 2000. (MSD)



2:23 (Dow Jones) Crude oil's rise contributing to worries about
inflationary pressures and to long bond's sagging price. Crude for Feb.
delivery in N.Y. up 45 cents to $32.64. 30-year down 25/32 at 109 6/32,
yield up 5 bp at 5.61% (JNP)



2:16 (Dow Jones) IPO action returns to the market later this week,
probably Thursday and Friday, and one minor point has some observers
optimistic. Not one of the three companies on the docket - Align
Technology, Peet's Coffee and Tea, and Xenogen - has yet seen fit to
lower the price range for its deal. When we last left the IPO market in
December, companies had to cut terms dramatically to attract any
interest. (RJH)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1m025ev




 MARKET TALK: March S&Ps Ned To Rally Above 1369 

1,023 words
22 January 2001
21:12
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



4:10 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps could be in deeper trouble if they fail to
rally Tuesday above 1369 - a double top from Jan. 3 and Jan 19, said an
off-floor trader. "We've had plenty of powder, but yet we did nothing,"
he said, referring to the index futures in general, which tried but
failed to sustain gains on Monday despite the strong possiblity of
interest rate cuts. (ZHS)



4:03 (Dow Jones) Stocks close out mixed, quiet session generally
softer. Dell warning shaved a bit off PC group, American Express weighs
on DJIA. Now market turns attention to Texas Instruments and Computer
Associates after the close. After big rally so far this year, techs may
need time to consolidate, some observers say. Big up day for banks,
retailers, biotechs. Tuesday another big day for profit reports,
including Compaq, EMC and Merck. DJIA drops 8 to 10581, Nasdaq slips 12
to 2758, and S&P flat at 1342 (preliminary). (TG)



3:45 (Dow Jones) Some of President Bush's top officials said earlier
Monday that California should solve its own energy problems. However,
with the state accounting for 1/8 of GDP, others argue its problems will
be shared. As a point of exercise, Credit Suisse First Boston Economist
Neal Soss said if one assumes that electricity is vital to all that
makes up the GDP, a total shutdown in California's production for one
day will cut GDP growth by 0.5%. While a total halt is highly unlikely,
minor disruptions are surely occuring. (CCC)



3:40 (Dow Jones) The licensing arm of the National Football League has
demanded that PepsiCo (PEP) pull its latest TV ad for the Pepsi One diet
drink off the air and permanently stop using it, according to a letter
obtained by Dow Jones Newswires. The organization, known as NFL
Properties, accuses PepsiCo of unlawfully using trademarks of the
Chicago Bears in the popular spot starring "Sex and the City" actress
Kim Cattrall. An NFL spokesman says the sports league is currently
evaluating Pepsi's response to the letter. He would not elaborate.
Meanwhile, the ad continues to run. (CEG)



3:32 (Dow Jones) The American Stock Exchange is preparing to launch
Tuesday a new volatity Index based on options on the Nasdaq 100 Trust,
commonly called the QQQ. The index will be an investor sentiment
indicator about the future volatility of the QQQ, which shadows the 100
largest non-financial stocks in the Nasdaq. Other options exchanges also
have been working on such a volatility index, market watchers say, which
more accurately reflect investor sentiment about volatile tech issues.
(KXT)



3:22 (Dow Jones) Government auctions of broadcast spectrum should push
federal surpluses even higher, said JP Morgan analysts. Recent auction
yielded bids around $17 billion. "This money, far in excess of the $3.9
billion of spectrum auction receipts the CBO assumed in its FY2001
surplus projection, will go far to offset any decline in tax receipts
due to the economic slowdown," the economists said. "The outcome of this
most recent sale has raised expectations for the next spectrum auction,
scheduled for this spring." (HJP)



3:17 (Dow Jones) Treasurys are pulling themselves across the New York
finishing line amid some notable curve steepening led by losses in the
back end. The 10-year has dropped 13/32 to 5.23%, while the 30-year fell
28/32 to yield 5.61%. Traders are betting on aggressive Fed easing, and
that's supported the front-end, while back-end issues suffered from
worries over a slowing economy coupled with technical pressures. (MSD)



3:07 (Dow Jones) Lehman cuts 2000 EPS view on Immunex (IMNX) to 28c
from 29c, and 2001 view to 29c from 30c, but maintains buy rating. Firm
lowers Enbrel revenue estimate for the 4Q and for 2001 based on current
perception of the manufacturing constraints at Immunex. "We continue to
be optimistic that Immunex may obtain additional capacity by mid-year,
however the impact of this capacity will clearly be less than if they
had it in hand today," Lehman said in a research note. (TG)



2:50 (Dow Jones) Angel investing - a start-up company's initial
investment, usually from wealthy individuals - hasn't slowed down
despite the downturn in the public markets. Angel investors funded 236%
more companies in 2000 than in 1996, and, on average, gave each company
$350,000, according to a survey from the Angel Advisor magazine's Angel
Network Activity Survey. Angel investing has grown at a 35% annual rate
since 1996, the survey says. (RJH)



2:40 (Dow Jones) U.S. economy has no doubt slowed sharply, but Merrill
chief economist Bruce Steinberg rejects talk of recession. He does
believe recent mix of economic data justify another 50 basis-point ease
by the Fed on Jan. 31. (TG)



2:27 (Dow Jones) The government racked up a $32.67B surplus in
December, a little bit smaller than expected. The 1Q deficit of the
government's fiscal year was $2.35B, which was better than the $20.28B
deficit seen in the 1Q of fiscal year 2000. (MSD)



2:23 (Dow Jones) Crude oil's rise contributing to worries about
inflationary pressures and to long bond's sagging price. Crude for Feb.
delivery in N.Y. up 45 cents to $32.64. 30-year down 25/32 at 109 6/32,
yield up 5 bp at 5.61% (JNP)



2:16 (Dow Jones) IPO action returns to the market later this week,
probably Thursday and Friday, and one minor point has some observers
optimistic. Not one of the three companies on the docket - Align
Technology, Peet's Coffee and Tea, and Xenogen - has yet seen fit to
lower the price range for its deal. When we last left the IPO market in
December, companies had to cut terms dramatically to attract any
interest. (RJH)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1m025e6




 US stocks drift higher, shrug off Dell warning 

293 words
22 January 2001
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2001) 

 NEW YORK, Jan 22 (AFP) - Wall Street shares drifted higher Monday, shrugging off a profit warning from Dell, as investors continued to digest the latest quarterly earnings. 

 At 1545 GMT, the Dow Jones industrials were up 36.60 points (0.35 percent) to 10,624.19 and the the Nasdaq rose 5.37 points (0.19 percent) to 2,775.75. 

 The Standard and Poor's 500 advanced 8.38 points (0.62 percent) to 1,350.92. 

 The Nasdaq shook off an early decline after bellwether Dell said fourth-quarter earnings would be hurt by the economic slowdown and lower demand for computer services and products. 

 Dell shares slipped three percent to 24-13/16, dragging down other computer stocks. 

 Hewlett Packard fell 4.2 percent to 34-1/4, Gateway 5.6 percent to 22.36 dollars and Compaq nearly three percent to 19.90. 

 Elsewhere in technology Cisco was up 3.56 percent while Texas Instruments slipped 2.48 percent to 49-1/16 and Microsoft shed 1.84 percent to 59-7/8. 

 Oil shares were lifted by a strong earnings report by Conoco, up 1.17 percent to 26-15/16. Exxon Mobil advanced 0.8 percent to 80-1/ 8, but Chevron slipped 0.24 percent 79-1/8. 

 In financial services, Bank of America rallied 3.30 percent to 50- 13/16 and Bank One added 2.37 percent to 37-13/16. 

 On the bond market, the yield o the 10-year Treasury bond rose to 5.215 percent from 5.166 Friday and on the 30-year bond to 5.583 percent against 5.551 percent. Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions. 

 rl/mdl 

Document afpr000020010709dx1m00r76


Newscast: Business news and stock report   

275 words
22 January 2001
CBS News: The Early Show
CBST
English
(c) Copyright 2001, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

GRETCHEN CARR, anchor:   

And time now for this morning's MarketWatch with Alexis Christoforous.   

Good morning.   

ALEXIS CHRISTOFOROUS reporting:   

Good morning, Gretchen.   

Well, today is the first trading day of the Bush administration and many MarketWatchers are calling the Bush team the most pro-business to hit DC in decades.   

On Friday, a profit warning from  Home Depot took the air out of the market.   

The Dow industrials sank 90 points to 10,587.   

(Graphic on screen)   

CBS MarketWatch cbs.marketwatch.com   

Dow Jones Industrials   

10,587.59 down 90.69   

CHRISTOFOROUS: The NASDAQ edged up about 2. The NASDAQ is up 12 percent so far this year.   

(Graphic on screen)   

CBS MarketWatch cbs.marketwatch.com   

NASDAQ   

2,770.38 up 1.89   

CHRISTOFOROUS: Keep your eye on Gillette today. The razor maker is expected to name former Nabisco CEO James Kilt as its new chief executive.   

And the earnings parade continues today with  American Express, BellSouth and  Texas Instruments among the highlights.   

For more, visit us at cbs.marketwatch.com or AOL, keyword: marketwatch. Gretchen?   

CARR: All right. Thank you, Alexis.   

And that is the news this morning. Now here are Bryant and Jane.   

BRYANT GUMBEL (Co-host): All right. Ladies, thanks so very much.   

JANE CLAYSON (Co-host): Thank you.   

GUMBEL: We still got a lot to get to and talk about the Golden Globes...   

CLAYSON: Oh, yeah.   

GUMBEL: ...a little bit this morning, talk about some winners and losers. We'll also have a look at President Bush's immediate agenda. We'll do all that and more when we come back right after this.   

(Announcements)   

Document CBST000020070818dx1m007jg


Newscast: Business news and stock reports   

591 words
22 January 2001
CBS News: Morning News
CBSM
English
(c) Copyright 2001, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

GRETCHEN CARR, anchor:   

Stocks in Tokyo closed higher overnight. The Nikkei index gained more than 43 points or more than one-quarter of 1 percent.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Tokyo Nikkei Average   

14,032.42 up 43.30   

Change: up 0.31%   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

CARR: On the CBS MarketWatch, corporate earnings setting the tone on Wall Street. Renay San Miguel has more on that.   

RENAY SAN MIGUEL reporting:   

It's the first week of the George W. Bush administration, but the last week of the Clinton era saw Wall Street trying to relive its recent glory days. The markets came through one of the busiest weeks of earnings season with some momentum intact and no major sell-offs, and now it's back to the Alan Greenspan watch as we close in on yet another Fed meeting.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Dow Jones Industrials   

down to 90.69 10,587.59   

SAN MIGUEL: Friday did see the Dow lose 90 points as weakness in financials, retailers and industrials took hold, but there have been more gains than losses in the last couple of weeks.   

(Graphic on screen)   

NASDAQ Composite   

up 1.93 2,770.42   

SAN MIGUEL: The NASDAQ, meanwhile, was looking at a major rally early Friday before late selling kicked in. It closed up just 2 points at 2,770.   

Charles Dickens would have loved the NASDAQ on Friday because it turned into a tale of two tech companies:  Microsoft and  Sun Microsystems.Microsoft did its part to help the index by meeting lowered expectations for its second quarter. The company also said Windows 2000 was selling better.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Tech Earnings   

MicrosoftSun Microsystems (MSFT) (SUNW)   

up 5.50 down 4 to to 61 30.88   

SAN MIGUEL:  Sun Microsystems, the so-called `dot in dot-com,' went the other direction. It, too, met earnings estimates but came in light on the sales side, and the stock lost ground--the worst of times, as it were.   

Other tech companies that met or exceeded Wall Street expectations included Canadian fiber-optic giant Nortel and the Internet's leading auction house,  eBay.

(Graphic on screen)   

WINNERS   

Nortel Networks (NT)  eBay (EBAY)   

up 3.31 up 3.25 to to 40 50.13   

SAN MIGUEL: Those in turn helped lift other networking and Web companies.   

CMGI, though, an incubator of Internet companies like Lycos and AltaVista, went into hibernation Friday, as it warned that it would not meet consolidated revenue targets for its fiscal year.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Internet Loser   

CMGI ( CMGI)   

down to 1.16 5.69   

SAN MIGUEL: And  Home Depot became a fixer-upper on Friday as it issued a profit warning saying a slowing economy was affecting sales of lumber at the nation's top home improvement retailer.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Profit Warning

Home Deput (HD)   

down to 3.25 41   

SAN MIGUEL: There's no relief from the flood of earnings reports. The coming week sees the likes of  American Express,  Compaq Computer,  Eli Lilly,  Johnson & Johnson,  Kimberly-Clark, Kellogg,  Texas Instruments and  R.J. Reynolds. And, of course, there's a Fed meeting, but if you're an investor, you probably already knew that.   

For more on the markets, go to cbs.marketwatch.com or AOL, keyword MarketWatch. In New York, I'm Renay San Miguel, cbs.marketwatch.com.   

CARR: Straight ahead on the MORNING NEWS, your Monday morning weather; and fireworks on the Australian Open court, but not from Anna Kournikova or her doubles match partner.   

(Announcements)   

Document CBSM000020070818dx1m003px




 MARKET TALK: Merrill Doesn't See Upside To TI 4Q 

935 words
22 January 2001
14:44
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



9:43 (Dow Jones) Merrill has Texas Instruments (TXN) posting 4Q EPS of
33c later Monday, with no upside likely. But the possibility of a soft
1Q aside, firm says TI is the large-cap semiconductor name investors
should own for long-term. Meanwhile, Merrill says Vitesse (VTSS) should
report 24c a share later today, with moderate upside potential. (TG)



9:34 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude seen opening 20-25 cents a barrel lower,
correcting Friday's technical gains in volatile pre-expiry trade of Feb.
contract. Friday's strong close points to uptrend but Monday is Feb.
contract's "last trading day, so anything can happen," analyst says.
Feb. crude, down 19c to $32 on ACCESS, faces resistance at $32.40;
support is pegged at $31.40. March crude is down 14c to $30.05 overnight
in ACCESS trade. (MSX)



9:26 (Dow Jones) While CSFB, ABN Amro, and Robbie Stephens upgraded
Dell Computer (DELL) very recently, Merrill issues a note this morning
saying it expects Dell to pre-announce a miss for the January quarter
within the next two weeks. The firm underestimated the extent of Dell's
miss, though, as it lowered its 4Q estimate to 23c a share from 26c
(Dell earlier said it would post 18c-19c a share). Merrill reiterates
buy, and views any significant weakness in shares as buying opportunity.
(TG)



9:14 (Dow Jones) UBS' Ed Kerschner offers report this morning on
FASB's likely elimination of pooling accounting for M&A. Firms benefit
from higher earnings due to lack of goodwill amortization plus greater
asset value and higher shareholder equity. Among downsides: lower
quality of earnings (that increase in earnings is just an accounting
change, remember?). Kerschner sees an aggregate 5% to 6% boost for S&P
500 EPS. (GC)



9:09 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD is heading higher after failure to break
below $0.9262, the low for the year and level hit after the surprise Fed
cut triggered a huge stock rally on Jan. 3. EUR/USD is up to $0.9302
after falling as low as $0.9272. (CSE)



9:06 (Dow Jones) Lehman expects Veritas' (VRTS) Dec. quarter results
to be a penny, maybe two, ahead of expectations. Firm also believes
company may raise guidance, driven by strong fundamentals and healthy
demand by IT managers for company's clustering, server-less back-up, and
file system products. While concerns over declining IT spending remain,
Lehman says money is being spent on "must-have" and mission critical
software, which includes Veritas' data availability products. Reiterates
strong buy, price target $160. (TG)



8:59 (Dow Jones) You want it when? Results of Accenture's (formerly
Andersen Consulting) holiday B2C study: 67% of deliveries weren't
received as ordered, and 12% didn't make it by X-mas. Bricks-and-clicks
operators had better on-time deliveries than "pure play" e-tailers.
Accenture placed nearly 600 orders between Nov. 27-Dec. 4. on about 100
Web sites. (GC)



8:53 (Dow Jones) Standard & Poor's notes fact that corporate credit
defaults started rising in 2000 at a time when the economy was robust is
a concern. "Now that the economy is showing signs of slowing materially,
the more traditional business cycle deterioration in portfolios will
accelerate," says Robert Swanton, a director in S&P's U.S. Financial
Services Group. (TG)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Once again, Treasurys players clearly favor
curve-steepening trades, with everything but bills and two-year notes
trading under water. Wednesday's two-year auction could briefly
challenge the steepening trend, but not for long. As talk of the
economic slowdown/potential recession starts to gel in the collective
mind of the market, Treasurys will remain supported, and the steeper
curve will persist. (SV)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Arnhold's John Roque says tech/telecom can continue
to outperform for a while longer, perhaps until the FOMC meeting nezt
week. Why? Because the number of new highs on the NYSE has fallen
sharply. "We know this is a circuitous way of saying why tech/telecom
can outperform for a while longer, but if the number of new highs on the
NYSE is falling, then NYSE stocks should underperform," he says. Roque
notes new highs on the NYSE reached a peak of 386 on Dec. 28, and have
recently fallen to 107. (TG)



8:33 (Dow Jones) Weak data out of the eurozone and strong data out of
Japan earlier have helped to continue the trend of the last 2 weeks.
EUR/USD has dropped to $0.9279, while USD/JPY is down at Y116.58. (CSE)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks will fall at the open, and another
high-profile earnings warning may limit any chance of an upside reversal
Monday. Dell Computer (DELL) said 4Q earnings will be well below
expectations, at 18c-19c a share. It comes as little surprise the
company cited a slowdown in demand, but the latest estimates from Dell
come not long after it had projected earnings of 26c. That's precisely
why so many market observers are calling for more weakness in stocks -
while some analysts have argued the worst has been seen on the earnings
front, others say the profit trough has yet to come. Big week for
earnings, including American Express (AXP) and Texas Instruments (TXN)
today. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1m026zh




 MARKET TALK: IPE Mar Brent Support Seen At $26.45/Bbl 

1,154 words
22 January 2001
15:55
Dow Jones Energy Service
NRG
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Beth Heinsohn
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   Call us in London: 44-20-7842-9358 or in New York: 201-938-4435.


 1555 GMT (Dow Jones) Support for IPE Mar Brent is seen at $26.45/bbl with $26.25, $26 below that, say brokers. A test of these levels is not expected Mon despite the resumption of Iraqi exports and reports of mild weather forecast next week for Europe and the US. Mar Brent at $26.87. (SMF) 

 1552 GMT (Dow Jones) W African crude differentials for early March are seen steady, say traders. Bonny Light, Quo Iboe is valued at dated Brent +5/10c, Brass River is expected to be at 10/12c above dated and Forcados is valued at dated -5c. (SWI) 

 1548 GMT (Dow Jones) IPE Mar Brent is seen climbing during the afternoon after initial pressure from Nymex sent it to a low of $26.65/bbl. "We should pick up a little bit now - it'll be bullish if we can break through the $27.25 uptrend line," says one broker. At $26.85. (SMF) 

 1543 GMT (Dow Jones) West African crude mkt quiet, no volumes left to trade, say traders. Most of Feb cargoes cleared out last week and end of Feb oil put on VLCCs to US Gulf to take advantage of continuing high Brent/WTI arb. Participants now waiting for Mar programs, which are due out next week. (SWI) 

 1538 GMT (Dow Jones) Nymex oil complex down on profit-taking "after the astounding run-up we saw last week," analyst says (Feb crude settled +$1.74 Fri). With cash mkt heating oil, gasoline prices level or close to level to the screen, "we're going to bleed lower." Feb crude -4c to $32.15/bbl; Feb heating oil 48 points to 87.45c/gal; Feb gasoline -12 pts to $88c. (MSX) 

 1512 GMT (Dow Jones) Power prices in the US Northeast are steady to lower in light trading on signs of weakening demand in the region, traders say. PJM trades at about $50-$51/MWh, even with most Fri deals, while Nepool power trades at $71.50-$72, down about $4 from Fri. High temps in the Boston area are forecast to warm nearly 10 deg F by Tue. (JDK) 

 1507 GMT (Dow Jones) Cinergy hub power for Tue trades at $48-$51/MWh, down from $48-$56 Fri, amid signs temperatures in the eastern Midwest are rising. The warmer weather signals weaker demand for power. High temps in the Cincinnati area are forecast to reach 42 deg F Tue, up 7 deg from expected Mon highs. (JDK) 

 1448 GMT (Dow Jones) NWE Eurograde gasoline prices stable at $259-$260/ton, with a possible move to the downside due to oversupply, says trader. "There're plenty of sellers around. I think $260/ton will be the top of the day." (GAF) 

 1442 GMT (Dow Jones) Feb Nymex gasoline seen opening 25-50 points a gallon lower in sympathy with heating oil, crude. Support for Feb contract, dn 32 pts to 87.80c on ACCESS, is pegged at 86c; resistance is seen at 89c. Contracts for beginning of 'driving season' all higher overnight; Mar, Apr, May up about 30 pts to 86.41c, 89.98c and 88.50c, respectively. (MSX). 

 1435 GMT (Dow Jones) Nymex heating oil seen opening 25-50 points a gallon lower. Some traders see futures pressured lower ahead of Tue's API inventory report due to last year's dramatic drawdown of 8 mln bbl; this week's stocks picture seen easing. Feb heating oil, dn 38 pts to 87.55c, has support at 85.50c while resistance is pegged at 88.20c. (MSX) 

 1429 GMT (Dow Jones) Nymex crude seen opening 20-25 cents a barrel lower, correcting Fri's technical gains in volatile pre-expiry trade of Feb contract. Fri's strong close points to uptrend but Mon is Feb contract's "last trading day, so anything can happen," analyst says. Feb crude, dn 19c to $32, faces resistance at $32.40; support is pegged at $31.40. (MSX) 

 1422 GMT (Dow Jones) Feb Nymex natural gas seen opening 26-28 cents higher on technical rebound, to $7.70-$7.73/MMBtu from Fri $7.459 settlement. Traders see scale-up selling after the open, mainly on cold weather in the Northeast over weekend. Physical gas at Henry Hub at $7.76-$7.80/MMBtu. (JEE) 

 1416 GMT (Dow Jones) EUR/USD heads higher after failure to break below $0.9262, the low for the year and level hit after the surprise Fed cut triggered a huge stock rally on Jan 3. EUR/USD is up to $0.9294 after falling as low as $0.9272. (CSE) 

 1408 GMT (Dow Jones) Standard & Poor's notes fact that corporate credit defaults started rising in 2000 at a time when the economy was robust is a concern. "Now that the economy is showing signs of slowing materially, the more traditional business cycle deterioration in portfolios will accelerate," says Robert Swanton, a director in S&P's U.S. Financial Services Group. (TG) 

 1359 GMT (Dow Jones) US stock mkts seen falling at the open, and another high-profile earnings warning may limit any chance of an upside reversal Mon. Dell Computer (DELL) said 4Q earnings will be well below expectations, at 18c-19c a share. It comes as little surprise the company cited a slowdown in demand, but the latest estimates from Dell come not long after it had projected earnings of 26c. That's precisely why so many market observers are calling for more weakness in stocks - while some analysts have argued the worst has been seen on the earnings front, others say the profit trough has yet to come. Big week for earnings, including American Express (AXP) and Texas Instruments (TXN) today. Stock futures soft. (TG) 

 1332 GMT (Dow Jones) North Sea crudes seen steady at levels traded Fri, one trader says. Forties seen at dated Brent +38-40c, Gullfaks C at +55-60c and Draugen at +70-71c. "It's been a quiet Mon and differentials are unch since the trades Fri," he says. (SWI) 

 1330 GMT (Dow Jones) North Sea crude traders now eyeing mid- to late-Feb loadings as most of early Feb cleared out after last week with another 6-7 deals on Fri. "There are only bits and pieces left from early Feb and we're now mainly looking at mid- to late-Feb cargoes," one trader says. (SWI) 

 1319 GMT (Dow Jones) North Sea crudes seen steady but could come under pressure if flat price moves up and products prices don't follow, says one trader. "The differentials could so a bit if products don't move up with crude," says one trader. (SWI) 

8764

Document nrg0000020010712dx1m00cek




 MARKET TALK:W Africa Oil Cleared Out For Feb, Mar Eyed 

1,211 words
22 January 2001
15:44
Dow Jones Energy Service
NRG
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Beth Heinsohn
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   Call us in London: 44-20-7842-9358 or in New York: 201-938-4435.


 1543 GMT (Dow Jones) West African crude mkt quiet, no volumes left to trade, say traders. Most of Feb cargoes cleared out last week and end of Feb oil put on VLCCs to US Gulf to take advantage of continuing high Brent/WTI arb. Participants now waiting for Mar programs, which are due out next week. (SWI) 

 1538 GMT (Dow Jones) Nymex oil complex down on profit-taking "after the astounding run-up we saw last week," analyst says (Feb crude settled +$1.74 Fri). With cash mkt heating oil, gasoline prices level or close to level to the screen, "we're going to bleed lower." Feb crude -4c to $32.15/bbl; Feb heating oil 48 points to 87.45c/gal; Feb gasoline -12 pts to $88c. (MSX) 

 1512 GMT (Dow Jones) Power prices in the US Northeast are steady to lower in light trading on signs of weakening demand in the region, traders say. PJM trades at about $50-$51/MWh, even with most Fri deals, while Nepool power trades at $71.50-$72, down about $4 from Fri. High temps in the Boston area are forecast to warm nearly 10 deg F by Tue. (JDK) 

 1507 GMT (Dow Jones) Cinergy hub power for Tue trades at $48-$51/MWh, down from $48-$56 Fri, amid signs temperatures in the eastern Midwest are rising. The warmer weather signals weaker demand for power. High temps in the Cincinnati area are forecast to reach 42 deg F Tue, up 7 deg from expected Mon highs. (JDK) 

 1448 GMT (Dow Jones) NWE Eurograde gasoline prices stable at $259-$260/ton, with a possible move to the downside due to oversupply, says trader. "There're plenty of sellers around. I think $260/ton will be the top of the day." (GAF) 

 1442 GMT (Dow Jones) Feb Nymex gasoline seen opening 25-50 points a gallon lower in sympathy with heating oil, crude. Support for Feb contract, dn 32 pts to 87.80c on ACCESS, is pegged at 86c; resistance is seen at 89c. Contracts for beginning of 'driving season' all higher overnight; Mar, Apr, May up about 30 pts to 86.41c, 89.98c and 88.50c, respectively. (MSX). 

 1435 GMT (Dow Jones) Nymex heating oil seen opening 25-50 points a gallon lower. Some traders see futures pressured lower ahead of Tue's API inventory report due to last year's dramatic drawdown of 8 mln bbl; this week's stocks picture seen easing. Feb heating oil, dn 38 pts to 87.55c, has support at 85.50c while resistance is pegged at 88.20c. (MSX) 

 1429 GMT (Dow Jones) Nymex crude seen opening 20-25 cents a barrel lower, correcting Fri's technical gains in volatile pre-expiry trade of Feb contract. Fri's strong close points to uptrend but Mon is Feb contract's "last trading day, so anything can happen," analyst says. Feb crude, dn 19c to $32, faces resistance at $32.40; support is pegged at $31.40. (MSX) 

 1422 GMT (Dow Jones) Feb Nymex natural gas seen opening 26-28 cents higher on technical rebound, to $7.70-$7.73/MMBtu from Fri $7.459 settlement. Traders see scale-up selling after the open, mainly on cold weather in the Northeast over weekend. Physical gas at Henry Hub at $7.76-$7.80/MMBtu. (JEE) 

 1416 GMT (Dow Jones) EUR/USD heads higher after failure to break below $0.9262, the low for the year and level hit after the surprise Fed cut triggered a huge stock rally on Jan 3. EUR/USD is up to $0.9294 after falling as low as $0.9272. (CSE) 

 1408 GMT (Dow Jones) Standard & Poor's notes fact that corporate credit defaults started rising in 2000 at a time when the economy was robust is a concern. "Now that the economy is showing signs of slowing materially, the more traditional business cycle deterioration in portfolios will accelerate," says Robert Swanton, a director in S&P's U.S. Financial Services Group. (TG) 

 1359 GMT (Dow Jones) US stock mkts seen falling at the open, and another high-profile earnings warning may limit any chance of an upside reversal Mon. Dell Computer (DELL) said 4Q earnings will be well below expectations, at 18c-19c a share. It comes as little surprise the company cited a slowdown in demand, but the latest estimates from Dell come not long after it had projected earnings of 26c. That's precisely why so many market observers are calling for more weakness in stocks - while some analysts have argued the worst has been seen on the earnings front, others say the profit trough has yet to come. Big week for earnings, including American Express (AXP) and Texas Instruments (TXN) today. Stock futures soft. (TG) 

 1332 GMT (Dow Jones) North Sea crudes seen steady at levels traded Fri, one trader says. Forties seen at dated Brent +38-40c, Gullfaks C at +55-60c and Draugen at +70-71c. "It's been a quiet Mon and differentials are unch since the trades Fri," he says. (SWI) 

 1330 GMT (Dow Jones) North Sea crude traders now eyeing mid- to late-Feb loadings as most of early Feb cleared out after last week with another 6-7 deals on Fri. "There are only bits and pieces left from early Feb and we're now mainly looking at mid- to late-Feb cargoes," one trader says. (SWI) 

 1319 GMT (Dow Jones) North Sea crudes seen steady but could come under pressure if flat price moves up and products prices don't follow, says one trader. "The differentials could so a bit if products don't move up with crude," says one trader. (SWI) 

 1313 GMT (Dow Jones) NWE heating gasoil barge bids seen higher at IPE Feb gasoil +$2 from +$1 Fri against offers of +$3-$3.50. Deal heard at +$2.75 for refinery grade basis Rotterdam, says trader. IPE Feb gasoil up $2.25 at $228.75/ton. (SLJ) 

 1310 GMT (Dow Jones) Support for IPE Mar Brent is seen at $26.75/bbl with the contract bouncing off this level twice Mon, say brokers. Resistance is seen at $27.25 and some see this being tested in the afternoon with Brent gaining strength from gasoil. At $26.85. (SMF) 

 1303 GMT (Dow Jones) Around 6-7 N Sea crude cargoes traded Fri, say traders. Norsk Hydro participated in 2 Oseberg trades, price unknown, and 1 Gullfaks C at dated Brent +55-60c. A Feb 2-4 Forties cargo traded between BP and Shell at dated +38c and 2 Draugen cargoes traded, one between Statoil and Texaco for loading Feb 19-21 at dated +70-71c. (SWI) 

 1239 GMT (Dow Jones) NWE CST380 marine fuel oil barge prices dn $2 at $102-$103/ton as oversupply and weak demand weigh on mkt. Supplies remain good in Rotterdam although Antwerp loading problems are providing some support to the price, say traders. (SLJ) 

8764

Document nrg0000020010712dx1m00cec




 MARKET TALK:Northeast Pwr Prices Steady/Lower;Cold Eases 

1,309 words
22 January 2001
15:11
Dow Jones Energy Service
NRG
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Beth Heinsohn
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   Call us in London: 44-20-7842-9358 or in New York: 201-938-4435.


 1512 GMT (Dow Jones) Power prices in the US Northeast are steady to lower in light trading on signs of weakening demand in the region, traders say. PJM trades at about $50-$51/MWh, even with most Fri deals, while Nepool power trades at $71.50-$72, down about $4 from Fri. High temps in the Boston area are forecast to warm nearly 10 deg F by Tue. (JDK) 

 1507 GMT (Dow Jones) Cinergy hub power for Tue trades at $48-$51/MWh, down from $48-$56 Fri, amid signs temperatures in the eastern Midwest are rising. The warmer weather signals weaker demand for power. High temps in the Cincinnati area are forecast to reach 42 deg F Tue, up 7 deg from expected Mon highs. (JDK) 

 1448 GMT (Dow Jones) NWE Eurograde gasoline prices stable at $259-$260/ton, with a possible move to the downside due to oversupply, says trader. "There're plenty of sellers around. I think $260/ton will be the top of the day." (GAF) 

 1442 GMT (Dow Jones) Feb Nymex gasoline seen opening 25-50 points a gallon lower in sympathy with heating oil, crude. Support for Feb contract, dn 32 pts to 87.80c on ACCESS, is pegged at 86c; resistance is seen at 89c. Contracts for beginning of 'driving season' all higher overnight; Mar, Apr, May up about 30 pts to 86.41c, 89.98c and 88.50c, respectively. (MSX). 

 1435 GMT (Dow Jones) Nymex heating oil seen opening 25-50 points a gallon lower. Some traders see futures pressured lower ahead of Tue's API inventory report due to last year's dramatic drawdown of 8 mln bbl; this week's stocks picture seen easing. Feb heating oil, dn 38 pts to 87.55c, has support at 85.50c while resistance is pegged at 88.20c. (MSX) 

 1429 GMT (Dow Jones) Nymex crude seen opening 20-25 cents a barrel lower, correcting Fri's technical gains in volatile pre-expiry trade of Feb contract. Fri's strong close points to uptrend but Mon is Feb contract's "last trading day, so anything can happen," analyst says. Feb crude, dn 19c to $32, faces resistance at $32.40; support is pegged at $31.40. (MSX) 

 1422 GMT (Dow Jones) Feb Nymex natural gas seen opening 26-28 cents higher on technical rebound, to $7.70-$7.73/MMBtu from Fri $7.459 settlement. Traders see scale-up selling after the open, mainly on cold weather in the Northeast over weekend. Physical gas at Henry Hub at $7.76-$7.80/MMBtu. (JEE) 

 1416 GMT (Dow Jones) EUR/USD heads higher after failure to break below $0.9262, the low for the year and level hit after the surprise Fed cut triggered a huge stock rally on Jan 3. EUR/USD is up to $0.9294 after falling as low as $0.9272. (CSE) 

 1408 GMT (Dow Jones) Standard & Poor's notes fact that corporate credit defaults started rising in 2000 at a time when the economy was robust is a concern. "Now that the economy is showing signs of slowing materially, the more traditional business cycle deterioration in portfolios will accelerate," says Robert Swanton, a director in S&P's U.S. Financial Services Group. (TG) 

 1359 GMT (Dow Jones) US stock mkts seen falling at the open, and another high-profile earnings warning may limit any chance of an upside reversal Mon. Dell Computer (DELL) said 4Q earnings will be well below expectations, at 18c-19c a share. It comes as little surprise the company cited a slowdown in demand, but the latest estimates from Dell come not long after it had projected earnings of 26c. That's precisely why so many market observers are calling for more weakness in stocks - while some analysts have argued the worst has been seen on the earnings front, others say the profit trough has yet to come. Big week for earnings, including American Express (AXP) and Texas Instruments (TXN) today. Stock futures soft. (TG) 

 1332 GMT (Dow Jones) North Sea crudes seen steady at levels traded Fri, one trader says. Forties seen at dated Brent +38-40c, Gullfaks C at +55-60c and Draugen at +70-71c. "It's been a quiet Mon and differentials are unch since the trades Fri," he says. (SWI) 

 1330 GMT (Dow Jones) North Sea crude traders now eyeing mid- to late-Feb loadings as most of early Feb cleared out after last week with another 6-7 deals on Fri. "There are only bits and pieces left from early Feb and we're now mainly looking at mid- to late-Feb cargoes," one trader says. (SWI) 

 1319 GMT (Dow Jones) North Sea crudes seen steady but could come under pressure if flat price moves up and products prices don't follow, says one trader. "The differentials could so a bit if products don't move up with crude," says one trader. (SWI) 

 1313 GMT (Dow Jones) NWE heating gasoil barge bids seen higher at IPE Feb gasoil +$2 from +$1 Fri against offers of +$3-$3.50. Deal heard at +$2.75 for refinery grade basis Rotterdam, says trader. IPE Feb gasoil up $2.25 at $228.75/ton. (SLJ) 

 1310 GMT (Dow Jones) Support for IPE Mar Brent is seen at $26.75/bbl with the contract bouncing off this level twice Mon, say brokers. Resistance is seen at $27.25 and some see this being tested in the afternoon with Brent gaining strength from gasoil. At $26.85. (SMF) 

 1303 GMT (Dow Jones) Around 6-7 N Sea crude cargoes traded Fri, say traders. Norsk Hydro participated in 2 Oseberg trades, price unknown, and 1 Gullfaks C at dated Brent +55-60c. A Feb 2-4 Forties cargo traded between BP and Shell at dated +38c and 2 Draugen cargoes traded, one between Statoil and Texaco for loading Feb 19-21 at dated +70-71c. (SWI) 

 1239 GMT (Dow Jones) NWE CST380 marine fuel oil barge prices dn $2 at $102-$103/ton as oversupply and weak demand weigh on mkt. Supplies remain good in Rotterdam although Antwerp loading problems are providing some support to the price, say traders. (SLJ) 

 1237 GMT (Dow Jones) Two Brent cargoes traded Fri for loading Jan 27-29, Feb 2-4, traders say Mon. One traded on a dated-related basis and the second at Mar paper +40c. Sempra was involved in one of the deals, but other details remain unclear. (SWI) 

 1235 GMT (Dow Jones) Spanish oil company Cepsa sees congestion in Algeciras Jan. 22, 23, 24; in Gibraltar Jan. 22, 23; and Tenerife Jan. 25, says trader. (SLJ) 

 1233 GMT (Dow Jones) Med marine fuel oil bunker prices stable to $4 higher as some brokers track late Brent gains Fri, while others chose to ignore the mkt's volatility. Algeciras CST380 at $116-$120/ton, same port CST180 at $123-$125/ton. IPE Mar Brent dn 16c at $26.88/bbl. (SLJ) 

 1230 GMT (Dow Jones) Brent physical mkt strengthens after being kept artificially low last week by low bids, offers on spot cargoes, says one trader. "Brent's going to go higher this week. It should have been high last week, but it was kept artificially low," one trader says. (SWI) 

 1227 GMT (Dow Jones) Brent physical mkt seen strong this week on wide WTI/Brent arb, at +$3 for both Mar and Apr, making transatlantic delivery profitable, traders say. "The arb to the US is so wide open you could drive a truck through it," says one. (SWI) 

8764

Document nrg0000020010712dx1m00cea




 MARKET TALK: US Stock Mkts Seen Dn At Open;Futures Soft 

1,205 words
22 January 2001
13:59
Dow Jones Energy Service
NRG
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Beth Heinsohn
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   Call us in London: 44-20-7842-9358 or in New York: 201-938-4435.


 1359 GMT (Dow Jones) US stock mkts seen falling at the open, and another high-profile earnings warning may limit any chance of an upside reversal Mon. Dell Computer (DELL) said 4Q earnings will be well below expectations, at 18c-19c a share. It comes as little surprise the company cited a slowdown in demand, but the latest estimates from Dell come not long after it had projected earnings of 26c. That's precisely why so many market observers are calling for more weakness in stocks - while some analysts have argued the worst has been seen on the earnings front, others say the profit trough has yet to come. Big week for earnings, including American Express (AXP) and Texas Instruments (TXN) today. Stock futures soft. (TG) 

 1332 GMT (Dow Jones) North Sea crudes seen steady at levels traded Fri, one trader says. Forties seen at dated Brent +38-40c, Gullfaks C at +55-60c and Draugen at +70-71c. "It's been a quiet Mon and differentials are unch since the trades Fri," he says. (SWI) 

 1330 GMT (Dow Jones) North Sea crude traders now eyeing mid- to late-Feb loadings as most of early Feb cleared out after last week with another 6-7 deals on Fri. "There are only bits and pieces left from early Feb and we're now mainly looking at mid- to late-Feb cargoes," one trader says. (SWI) 

 1319 GMT (Dow Jones) North Sea crudes seen steady but could come under pressure if flat price moves up and products prices don't follow, says one trader. "The differentials could so a bit if products don't move up with crude," says one trader. (SWI) 

 1313 GMT (Dow Jones) NWE heating gasoil barge bids seen higher at IPE Feb gasoil +$2 from +$1 Fri against offers of +$3-$3.50. Deal heard at +$2.75 for refinery grade basis Rotterdam, says trader. IPE Feb gasoil up $2.25 at $228.75/ton. (SLJ) 

 1310 GMT (Dow Jones) Support for IPE Mar Brent is seen at $26.75/bbl with the contract bouncing off this level twice Mon, say brokers. Resistance is seen at $27.25 and some see this being tested in the afternoon with Brent gaining strength from gasoil. At $26.85. (SMF) 

 1303 GMT (Dow Jones) Around 6-7 N Sea crude cargoes traded Fri, say traders. Norsk Hydro participated in 2 Oseberg trades, price unknown, and 1 Gullfaks C at dated Brent +55-60c. A Feb 2-4 Forties cargo traded between BP and Shell at dated +38c and 2 Draugen cargoes traded, one between Statoil and Texaco for loading Feb 19-21 at dated +70-71c. (SWI) 

 1239 GMT (Dow Jones) NWE CST380 marine fuel oil barge prices dn $2 at $102-$103/ton as oversupply and weak demand weigh on mkt. Supplies remain good in Rotterdam although Antwerp loading problems are providing some support to the price, say traders. (SLJ) 

 1237 GMT (Dow Jones) Two Brent cargoes traded Fri for loading Jan 27-29, Feb 2-4, traders say Mon. One traded on a dated-related basis and the second at Mar paper +40c. Sempra was involved in one of the deals, but other details remain unclear. (SWI) 

 1235 GMT (Dow Jones) Spanish oil company Cepsa sees congestion in Algeciras Jan. 22, 23, 24; in Gibraltar Jan. 22, 23; and Tenerife Jan. 25, says trader. (SLJ) 

 1233 GMT (Dow Jones) Med marine fuel oil bunker prices stable to $4 higher as some brokers track late Brent gains Fri, while others chose to ignore the mkt's volatility. Algeciras CST380 at $116-$120/ton, same port CST180 at $123-$125/ton. IPE Mar Brent dn 16c at $26.88/bbl. (SLJ) 

 1230 GMT (Dow Jones) Brent physical mkt strengthens after being kept artificially low last week by low bids, offers on spot cargoes, says one trader. "Brent's going to go higher this week. It should have been high last week, but it was kept artificially low," one trader says. (SWI) 

 1227 GMT (Dow Jones) Brent physical mkt seen strong this week on wide WTI/Brent arb, at +$3 for both Mar and Apr, making transatlantic delivery profitable, traders say. "The arb to the US is so wide open you could drive a truck through it," says one. (SWI) 

 1223 GMT (Dow Jones) Med marine middle distillate bunker prices up $1-$5 on the $6 hike in IPE Feb gasoil Fri, say traders. Las Palmas marine diesel at $248-$253/ton, same port gasoil at $239-$260/ton. IPE Feb gasoil up $2.25 at $228.75/ton. (SLJ) 

 1221 GMT (Dow Jones) IPE mkt seen moving up after early technical weakness. "A lot of people were selling averages and some stops were triggered," says broker. Gasoil seen leading complex with $240/ton long-term upside goal for Feb. $235 seen possible Mon. At $228.75. (SMF) 

 1210 GMT (Dow Jones) Brent physical mkt seen strong on OPEC output cuts and continued disruptions to Iraqi exports, traders say. "The mkt's tightening up - it's a knock on effect of the OPEC cuts and the missing Iraqi barrels," says one trader. (SWI) 

 1139 GMT (Dow Jones) Prompt Brent CFDs are stronger on higher dated Brent assessment and mkt backwardation, traders say. Jan 22-26 up 20c at Mar paper +45c; Jan 29-Feb 2 up 5c at +20c, Feb 5-9 is dn 20c at Mar flat; Feb 12-16 is dn 3c at -17c and Feb 19-23 is unch at -35c. (SWI) 

 1124 GMT (Dow Jones) 15-day Brent spreads are stronger Mon picking up in line with higher dated assessment, traders say. Feb/Mar at +73c based on offers at 75c; Mar/Apr is at +81c from +77c and Apr/May is up 10c at +38c. (SWI) 

 1116 GMT (Dow Jones) Dated Brent is assessed up 39c at Mar +35c based on Elf's stronger bids on cargoes Fri up to Mar +45c, say traders. "The mkt's looking quite strong today (Mon) and could pick up another 10c by the day's end if the bids are still around Mar +45c," one trader says. (SWI) 

 1114 GMT (Dow Jones) NWE Eurograde gasoline barge deals heard at $259/ton, $260 for refinery grade basis Rotterdam. NWE mkt remains fairly balanced, says trader. (SLJ) 

 1112 GMT (Dow Jones) NWE Eurograde gasoline barge prices up $1-$2 at $259-$260/ton on the back of strong Brent gains Fri. Mkt eyes screen for direction, with IPE Feb Brent now dn 14c at $26.90/bbl. (SLJ) 

 1024 GMT (Dow Jones) Nymex Feb crude expiry will be IPE focus later, may lead to widening of already steep backwardation, says GNI. While a last minute squeeze can't be ruled out, it suspects there will be selling opportunities at some point. IPE Mar Brent dn 14C at $26.90/bbl. (SPM) 

8764

Document nrg0000020010712dx1m00cdp




 BRIDGE TOP NEWS NOW - US equities seen opening weak as Dell warns. 

831 words
22 January 2001
13:46
FWN Select
FWS
English
(c) 2001

 Jan 22, 2001 (FWN Select via COMTEX) - TOP STORIES: 

 IPO values France Telecom's Orange at up to $60.2 billion 

 Paris-Jan. 22-France Telecom SA (FR;FTE) said its sale of shares in Orange SA will value the mobile phone unit at 55.2-64.8 billion euros ($51.3-60.2 billion). Shares, on sale Tuesday, will be priced at 11.5-13.5 euros. Last year France Telecom had estimated Orange's value at more than 100 billion euros, before the sharp correction in telecom share prices. France Telecom Chairman Michael Bon later added thao his company will not give up control of Orange. ( Story .5960 ) 

 Dell sees fourth-quarter earnings below expectations 

 New York-Jan. 22-Dell Computer Corp. (DELL) expects fourth-quarter operating results to fall short of expectations, blaming the deteriorating economy and weaker demand for computer systems and services. The world's largest direct-sale computer vendor expects fourth-quarter earnings per share to reach 18-19 cents, compared to a previous view of 26 cents. Dell nevertheless expects revenue to be $8.5-8.6 billion, up 25-27% from the fourth quarter a year ago. ( Story .14290 ) 

 German business confidence drops for seventh consecutive month 

 Frankfurt-Jan. 22-Business sentiment in the western German manufacturing, trade and construction industries took a dive again in December, the Ifo economic institute said. The latest fall marks the seventh month in a row of declining business sentiment. Ifo's confidence index for December was a seasonally-adjusted 96.5 points, compared with 97.0 in November, in line with forecasts. ( Story .1622 ) 

 Boston Scientific close to $2 bln deal with Medinol, says report 

 New York-Jan. 22-U.S.-based Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) is nearing a deal to buy the 80% it doesn't already own in Israel's Medinol Ltd., the Wall Street Journal's interactive edition reported. The deal is believed to be for $1.5-2.0 billion in cash and stock, and is a climbdown from Medinol's earlier demand of $6.0-7.0 billion. The two firms started talks this summer, but the high price quoted by the Israeli firm prevented a deal, the report said. ( Story .10814 ) 

 Sweoen's SCA buys Georgia-Pacific's tissue unit and Tuscarora 

 Stockholm-Jan. 22-Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget (SE;SCA), the Swedish paper products group, announced it is acquiring two companies to expand into the U.S. market. SCA said it has agreed to buy Georgia-Pacific Corp.'s (FJUS) Away From Home tissue business for $850 million debt free and Tuscarora Inc. (TUSC), which makes protective packaging for the high-technology industry, for $230 million, also excluding debt. ( Story .5962 ) 

 US equities seen weaker on open as Dell warns 

 New York-Jan. 22-U.S. stocks are viewed weak on the open as profit-taking and a profit warning from Dell Computer Corp. weigh on the market. Meanwhile, earnings reports reach a peak this week. The Dow Jones Average is seen opening down 40 to 60 points. ( Story .1307 ) 

 Euro-zone annual inflation eases to 2.6% in December 

 Brussels-Jan. 22-Euro-zone inflation eased to an annual rate of 2.6% in December from 2.9% in November, helped by falling oil prices, according to figures released by Eurostat. The data was in line with economists' forecasts. However, inflation remains well above the European Central Bank's 2.0% target, limiting the ECB's scope to cut interest rates, traders said. ( Story .5925 ) 

 Taylor Woodrow agrees to buy housebuilder Bryant for $814 million 

 London-Jan. 22-Taylor Woodrow PLC (GB; TWOD), the construction and property group, said it has agreed to buy housebuilder Bryant Group PLC (GB;BRYN) for 556 million sterling ($813.8 million). The cash-and-shares deal values Bryant's shares at 207.4 pence each. The combined group will be theEURUnited Kingdom's fifth-largest housebuilder, producing 6,000 homes a year, the companies said. ( Story .11202 ) 

 OF INTEREST: 

 Australia's Qantas withdraws takeover offer for Hazelton Airlines 

 Sydney-Jan. 22-Australia's largest domestic airline, Qantas Airways Ltd. (AU;QAN), said it has withdrawn its takeover offer for regional player Hazelton Airlines Ltd. (AU;HAZ). Qantas said it would not proceed with its current Aus $1.50 per share offer on advice from the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission that it would not approve the acquisition. ( Story .10514 ) 

 Bank of Japan's economic view turns slightly cautious 

 Tokyo-Jan. 22-The Bank of Japan (BOJ) turned slightly cautious in assessing the economy in its January economic and financial report, citing future risks such as an expected fall in net exports. The BOJ said: "A temporary decline in exports is seen as inevitable, reflecting slowing in the overseas economy," adding, "net exports are expected to decline partially due to expected growth in imports of products." ( Story .1464 ) 

 (C) Copyright 2001 FWN 

 . 

Document fws0000020010712dx1m005sm




 BRIDGE TOP NEWS NOW - Qantas withdraws offer for Hazelton. 

740 words
22 January 2001
06:01
FWN Select
FWS
English
(c) 2001

 Jan 22, 2001 (FWN Select via COMTEX) - TOP STORIES: 

 Australia's Qantas withdraws takeover offer for Hazelton Airlines 

 Sydney-Jan. 22-Australia's largest domestic airline, Qantas Airways Ltd. (AU;QAN), said it has withdrawn its takeover offer for regional player Hazelton Airlines Ltd. (AU;HAZ). Qantas said it would not proceed with its current Aus $1.50 per share offer on advice from the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission that it would not approve the acquisition. ( Story .10514 ) 

 Bank of Japan's economic view turns slightly cautious on future risk 

 Tokyo-Jan. 22-The Bank of Japan (BOJ) turned slightly cautious in assessing the overall economy inits January economic and financial report released Monday, citing future risks such as an expected fall in net exports. The BOJ said: "A temporary decline in exports is seen as inevitable, reflecting slowing in the overseas economy," adding, "net exports are expected to decline partially due to expected growth in imports of products, such as consumer goods, capital goods and parts." ( Story .1464 ) 

 Japan's service industry index rises 0.6% on month in November 

 Tokyo-Jan. 22-The index for activity in Japan's service industry, which accounts for 60% of Japan's economy, rose 0.6% on month on a seasonally adjusted basis in November, after it had shown no change in October, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry announced. The ministry also said the November index for activity by all industries, an indicator of the movement of gross domestic product, increased 0.4% on month. ( Story .12148 ) 

 Australia's Woolworths' first-half sales up 9.3% to $6.268 billion 

 Melbourne-Jan. 22-Australian retailing giant Woolworths Ltd. [AU;WOW] said sales for the 28 weeks to Jan. 7 totaled Aus $11.247 billion [US $6.268 billion], up 9.3% from the same period a year ago. The company said sales strengthened in December, and it remained on track to achieve high single-digit sales growth and low double-digit earnings per share growth for the full financial year [July-June]. ( Story .12746 ) 

 Limited blackouts ordered in Northern California 

 Sacramento-Jan 21.-Parts of Northern California were blacked out after demand for electricity overwhelmed power grid operators for the third day in less than a w2ek. The outages, affecting Sacramento, Roseville, Turlock and Modesto areas, lasted about 20 minutes. The Independent System Operator, which manages 80% of the state's electricity grid, earlier had declared a Stage 3 alert through Monday. Stage 3 alerts allow operators to impose rolling blackouts to cope with demand. ( Story .12016 ) 

 Nasdaq ekes out gain while DJIA falls 

 New York-Jan. 19-The Nasdaq ended almost unchanged Friday as investors digested recent gains and some mixed earnings reports. The Dow industrials ended lower, however, as a profit warning from Home Depot (US;HD) and general concerns about the slowing economy weighed heavily on the index. The Nasdaq closed up 1.89, or 0.07%, to 2770.38 and the Dow was down 90.69, or 0.85%, to 10,587.59. The S&P 500 was down 5.42, or 0.40%, to 1342.55. ( Story .1300 ) 

 Philippines' Arroyo announces Cabinet changes 

 Manila-Jan. 22-Newly installed Philippine President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo retained former Defense Secretary Orlando Mercado in her Cabinet lineup which she began announcing Monday. Mercado was among those who defected to the opposition Friday, precipitating the fall of Macapagal's predecessor, Joseph Estrada. ( Story .12760 ) 

 Japan minister Nukaga says will continue at post 

 Tokyo-Jan. 22-Fukushiro Nugaka, Japan's Minster of State for Economic and Fiscal Policy, said he would continue to tackle his assigned tasks, indicating he did not intend to step down from his post. Many Japanese newspapers have reported Nukaga will resign as early as Monday to take responsibility for his ties with scandal-tainted mutual aid foun2ation KSD. ( Story .12896 ) 

 OF INTEREST: 

 Japan's NTT DoCoMo says no decision yet on SK Telecom stake purchase 

 Tokyo-Jan. 22-NTT DoCoMo Inc.(JP;9437) told BridgeNews that nothing has yet been decided on the purchase of stake from South Korea's SK Telecom. The Wall Street Journal reported that the Japanese mobile carrier and SK Telecom were in talks over a stake sale. However they failed to reach an agreement on the price for the 15% stake purchase, it added. ( Story .12639 ) 

 (C) Copyright 2001 FWN 

 . 

Document fws0000020010712dx1m005s1




 MARKET TALK: Some Good, Some Bad From FASB Pooling Change 

707 words
22 January 2001
14:15
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



9:14 (Dow Jones) UBS' Ed Kerschner offers report this morning on
FASB's likely elimination of pooling accounting for M&A. Firms benefit
from higher earnings due to lack of goodwill amortization plus greater
asset value and higher shareholder equity. Among downsides: lower
quality of earnings (that increase in earnings is just an accounting
change, remember?). Kerschner sees an aggregate 5% to 6% boost for S&P
500 EPS. (GC)



9:09 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD is heading higher after failure to break
below $0.9262, the low for the year and level hit after the surprise Fed
cut triggered a huge stock rally on Jan. 3. EUR/USD is up to $0.9302
after falling as low as $0.9272. (CSE)



9:06 (Dow Jones) Lehman expects Veritas' (VRTS) Dec. quarter results
to be a penny, maybe two, ahead of expectations. Firm also believes
company may raise guidance, driven by strong fundamentals and healthy
demand by IT managers for company's clustering, server-less back-up, and
file system products. While concerns over declining IT spending remain,
Lehman says money is being spent on "must-have" and mission critical
software, which includes Veritas' data availability products. Reiterates
strong buy, price target $160. (TG)



8:59 (Dow Jones) You want it when? Results of Accenture's (formerly
Andersen Consulting) holiday B2C study: 67% of deliveries weren't
received as ordered, and 12% didn't make it by X-mas. Bricks-and-clicks
operators had better on-time deliveries than "pure play" e-tailers.
Accenture placed nearly 600 orders between Nov. 27-Dec. 4. on about 100
Web sites. (GC)



8:53 (Dow Jones) Standard & Poor's notes fact that corporate credit
defaults started rising in 2000 at a time when the economy was robust is
a concern. "Now that the economy is showing signs of slowing materially,
the more traditional business cycle deterioration in portfolios will
accelerate," says Robert Swanton, a director in S&P's U.S. Financial
Services Group. (TG)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Once again, Treasurys players clearly favor
curve-steepening trades, with everything but bills and two-year notes
trading under water. Wednesday's two-year auction could briefly
challenge the steepening trend, but not for long. As talk of the
economic slowdown/potential recession starts to gel in the collective
mind of the market, Treasurys will remain supported, and the steeper
curve will persist. (SV)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Arnhold's John Roque says tech/telecom can continue
to outperform for a while longer, perhaps until the FOMC meeting nezt
week. Why? Because the number of new highs on the NYSE has fallen
sharply. "We know this is a circuitous way of saying why tech/telecom
can outperform for a while longer, but if the number of new highs on the
NYSE is falling, then NYSE stocks should underperform," he says. Roque
notes new highs on the NYSE reached a peak of 386 on Dec. 28, and have
recently fallen to 107. (TG)



8:33 (Dow Jones) Weak data out of the eurozone and strong data out of
Japan earlier have helped to continue the trend of the last 2 weeks.
EUR/USD has dropped to $0.9279, while USD/JPY is down at Y116.58. (CSE)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks will fall at the open, and another
high-profile earnings warning may limit any chance of an upside reversal
Monday. Dell Computer (DELL) said 4Q earnings will be well below
expectations, at 18c-19c a share. It comes as little surprise the
company cited a slowdown in demand, but the latest estimates from Dell
come not long after it had projected earnings of 26c. That's precisely
why so many market observers are calling for more weakness in stocks -
while some analysts have argued the worst has been seen on the earnings
front, others say the profit trough has yet to come. Big week for
earnings, including American Express (AXP) and Texas Instruments (TXN)
today. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1m026wh




 MARKET TALK: As Others Weaken, Tech/Telecom Can Outperform 

301 words
22 January 2001
13:41
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



8:39 (Dow Jones) Arnhold's John Roque says tech/telecom can continue
to outperform for a while longer, perhaps until the FOMC meeting nezt
week. Why? Because the number of new highs on the NYSE has fallen
sharply. "We know this is a circuitous way of saying why tech/telecom
can outperform for a while longer, but if the number of new highs on the
NYSE is falling, then NYSE stocks should underperform," he says. Roque
notes new highs on the NYSE reached a peak of 386 on Dec. 28, and have
recently fallen to 107. (TG)



8:33 (Dow Jones) Weak data out of the eurozone and strong data out of
Japan earlier have helped to continue the trend of the last 2 weeks.
EUR/USD has dropped to $0.9279, while USD/JPY is down at Y116.58. (CSE)



8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks will fall at the open, and another
high-profile earnings warning may limit any chance of an upside reversal
Monday. Dell Computer (DELL) said 4Q earnings will be well below
expectations, at 18c-19c a share. It comes as little surprise the
company cited a slowdown in demand, but the latest estimates from Dell
come not long after it had projected earnings of 26c. That's precisely
why so many market observers are calling for more weakness in stocks -
while some analysts have argued the worst has been seen on the earnings
front, others say the profit trough has yet to come. Big week for
earnings, including American Express (AXP) and Texas Instruments (TXN)
today. Stock futures soft. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1m026t0




 Business; Financial Desk 
 Monday Business Preview Blue-Chip Companies Set to Issue Earnings Results 

Reuters
187 words
22 January 2001
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-2
English
 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company 

 Wall Street investors seem to have shaken the profit-warning blues and are expected to remain chin-up this week, giving stocks a boost, as the corporate earnings season revs up to full-speed. Corporate America already has largely confessed to the sins of weaker profits committed before the backdrop of slowing growth, and Wall Street appears ready to forgive and forget--at least for now. "Most of the bad news is already in most of these stock prices," Peter Gottlieb, portfolio manager at First Albany Asset Management, said. The tap opens on the flood of earnings reports this week--with a substantial batch of blue-chip firms set to issue their quarterly results--and analysts say many investors will be able to shrug off any negative surprises. There could even be some good news--particularly from the slew of pharmaceutical companies expected to issue statements about their profits, as well as many U.S. 

  oil companies, which saw their profits get a boost from sky-high oil and natural gas prices. 

Document latm000020010712dx1m002o0




 EM.TV shares stage comeback. 

 Scott Roxborough 
470 words
22 January 2001
Hollywood Reporter
HLYW
8
ISSN: 0018-3660; Volume 366; Issue 31
English
 Copyright 2001 Gale Group Inc. All rights reserved. COPYRIGHT 2001 VNU Business Media 

 Reports of offer to buy company's stake in SLEC bolster stock 

 COLOGNE, Germany -- Shares in troubled German media firm EM.TV shot up Friday amid reports that an international consortium has made an offer to buy EM.TV's 50% stake in SLEC, the holding company that controls the Formula One auto racing circuit. 

 Reports in German and British media claimed that the head of EM.TV's supervisory board, Nickolaus Becker, met with a representative of a small British investment bank Thursday in Geneva to discuss the Formula One sale. The bank reportedly offered EM.TV about a third of the $1.69 billion it paid Formula One boss Bernie Ecclestone for the SLEC stake last year. 

 As part of the reported deal, part of the 50% stake would be returned to Ecclestone in exchange for his cancellation of a put option that, if exercised, could force EM.TV to pay $1 billion to buy a further 25% of SLEC. 

 Stock in the Munich-based firm jumped almost 60% on the news before losing some of those gains in late trading. EM.TV shares closed Friday up 22.8% at 7.8 euros ($7.30). 

 An EM.TV spokesman declined comment on the reports, saying the company is in negotiations with Germany's KirchGroup, as per an exclusivity agreement between the companies. 

 Last month, Kirch unveiled its planned bailout of EM.TV, which would involve taking a 16.74% stake in the company and buying half of the firm's Formula One stake. The rescue plan also would give Kirch 25% of EM.TV voting shares. 

 But the spokesman said EM.TV has received other offers for SLEC, including ones from international investors, but declined further comment. On Friday, a report in the Financial Times Germany claimed that an unnamed consortium of "international investors" has approached EM.TV and made an offer for the SLEC stake. 

 Other parties thought to be interested in getting a hand on EM.TV's Formula One business include rights buyer Tele-Munchen and a consortium of automobile manufacturers whose cars race on the Formula One circuit. 

 A KirchGroup spokesman called the reports of an international offer "nebulous" and hinted that EM.TV might be trying to use the media as a bargaining tool in its negotiations with Kirch. 

 Once a rising star in the German and international media scene, EM.TV has seen its stock fall more than 95% in recent months following a profit warning and reports of financial mismanagement German stock market authorities and Munich state prosecutors are investigating allegations of insider trading and deliberately deceiving shareholders. 

FULL TEXT VNU eMedia, Inc. THIS IS THE FULL TEXT: COPYRIGHT 2001 VNU Business Media Subscription: $175.00 per year. Published daily (5 times a week).

Document hlyw000020010711dx1m000sl


 Dow falters on  profit warning . 

540 words
21 January 2001
Sunday Mail
SUNMAI
36
English
(c) 2001 Advertiser Newspapers Limited

 The Australian share market could open warily tomorrow after "old economy" stocks were battered in New York at the close of trade. Stocks closed mostly lower on Wall Street, pressured by profit warnings. 

 The Dow Jones industrials index fell 90 points to close at 10,587, while the hi-tech Nasdaq edged back 1.8 points to close at 2770. 

 The Standard and Poor's 500 fell 5.4 points to 1342. 

 Breadth was negative with 1733 shares lower and 1346 higher, with 1.4 billion shares traded on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Union Carbide Corp warned its fourth-quarter losses would be greater than Wall Street expected, as high prices for raw materials and energy have taken their toll on the chemical maker. 

 Another profit warning, from Home Depot, and general concerns about the slowing economy weighed heavily on the Dow. 

 "We need to consolidate for a while, but it looks like the lows are in place," said John Hughes, market analyst at Shields & Co. The Nasdaq had absorbed some lukewarm earnings news surprisingly well recently, but in the absence of any really positive news he believed the upside would be limited. 

 "Today was about as constructive as you could get after the recent run up," he added. The Nasdaq rose 6 per cent in its last two trading days and is up 12 per cent since the start of the year. Microsoft rose 9.9 per cent after meeting lowered second-quarter earnings estimates and issuing cautiously optimistic guidance. Analysts said the firm's bullish enterprise outlook was tempered by caution in consumer and desktop applications. In the Internet sector, eBay Inc. added 7 per cent after beating fourth-quarter earnings estimates of 7 cents a share by 2 cents, and raising 2001 sales guidance. 

 Still, Sun Microsystems Inc. fell 11 per cent after lowering the range on revenue growth expectations for fiscal 2001. 

 ADC Telecom slid 27 per cent after saying it expects a shortfall in first-quarter earnings. 

 "We're not going to resume the run we had a year ago but we're starting to see higher lows. Momentum has shifted back into tech and telecom," said Robert Harrington, head of listed trading at UBS Warburg. 

 On the Dow, Home Depot was the biggest loser, falling 7 per cent or 3 1/4, to 41 after warning that fourth-quarter earnings would come in at 20 cents a share, or 4 cents below the First Call consensus estimate, due to a declining economy. Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing), Wal-Mart and United Technologies also led on the downside. 

 Volume on the Nasdaq was a heavy 2.68 billion, with declines beating advances by 1943 to 1882. Traders said volume was heavy due to double witching - the expiration of options on stocks and stock indexes. 

 In currency trade, the euro fell against the dollar to 93.36 cents. 

 February crude oil futures rose $1.65 cents to $32.10 as traders rushed to cover short positions ahead of the contract's expiration tomorrow. In the bond market, the 30-year Treasury fell 1 4/32, pushing its yield up to 5.546 per cent. 

 Gold closed at $US264 an ounce. 

Document sunmai0020010715dx1l001a1


 Michigan-Based Shoe Manufacturer's  Profit Warning  Sends Stock Price Plunging 

 Jennifer Bott 
359 words
20 January 2001
Knight Ridder Tribune Business News - KRTBN
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2001 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 A warning from Wolverine Worldwide Inc. that it won't meet fourth-quarter earnings estimates booted the Hush Puppies shoemaker's shares down 23.7 percent Friday. 

 Blaming factory closings, slow retail sales and currency problems, the Rockford-based company warned late Thursday that it would earn only 38 cents to 40 cents per share for the fourth quarter. For the year the company said it would earn between 96 cents and 98 cents per share. The company's earnings will be released Feb. 7. 

 Analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial had expected Wolverine to earn 49 cents per share for the fourth quarter and $1.07 per share for the year. 

 Thomas Mundt, a Wolverine spokesman, said poor holiday sales took a particularly big bite out of earnings as retailers failed to reorder inventory. 

 Wall Street didn't react warmly to Wolverine's warning Friday. The company's stock price fell $4.50 per share to close at $14.50. About 2.7 million shares traded hands, nine times the average daily volume of 310,318 shares. 

 At least one analyst at Wells Fargo Van Kasper in New York downgraded the company's stock Friday from a buy recommendation to accumulate. 

 Wolverine has been in the midst of restructuring -- shifting its production from in-house factories to outsourcing. 

 In July, it announced plans to close five plants and lay off 1,400 people, about 25 percent of its workforce. 

 Wolverine's Michigan plants in Rockford and Big Rapids were not affected. 

 The cost cuts were intended to free up funds for marketing and eliminate overcapacity. 

 Timothy J. O'Donovan, Wolverine's president and chief executive officer, said in a statement: "While we did not achieve our sales and earnings goals for 2000, we moved aggressively to position the company for improved results in 2001 and beyond." 

 But Wolverine is already backing away from some optimistic projections for this year. 

 Instead of earning $1.22 per share in 2001, the company warned Thursday its earnings will range from $1.14 to $1.18 per share. 

Document krtbn00020010711dx1k008uk




 WSJ.COM: Home Depot News Hits Blue Chips; Techs Struggle 

 By David Runk 
1,001 words
19 January 2001
18:29
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 WSJ.com 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- A profit warning from Home Depot pulled blue chips lower Friday, while technology stocks struggled to hold gains after key earnings reports met lowered expectations but offered a mixed outlook for 2001. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average was down 107 points, or 1%, at 10571 in early-afternoon trading, after gaining 93.94 points the previous session. The Nasdaq Composite Index was up 7.60 to 2776.10, trying to extend a two-day, 150-point surge. 

 Other major indexes were lower. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 6.70 to 1341.20, the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index declined 5.50 to 646, and the Russell 2000 Index of small-capitalization stocks dropped 4.90 to 489.70. 

 The market stabilized somewhat following a volatile opening, which saw the Nasdaq composite swiftly erase a 73-point opening jump to waver in and out of negative territory. Cautionary comments about earnings gave investors reason to hesitate and some profit-taking hit the tech sector, while earnings news from tech bellwether Microsoft offered support. 

 "I think the market is looking a little tired here. We've had a pretty meteoric rise" recently in the tech sector, said Bryan Piskorowski, market analyst at Prudential Securities. 

 Bond prices fell amid profit-taking following the week's rally, and the dollar traded mixed. 

 Meanwhile, Dow component Home Depot fell $1.88 to $42.38 after saying earnings for its quarter ending Jan. 28 would miss expectations. The building-products retailer said the weakening economy was among the reasons for weak sales in the period. 

 "The Dow is being impacted by Home Depot and Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing, where the selling continues," said Bill Barker, investment strategist and consultant at Dain Rauscher. "We've got a lot of cross currents in the earnings reports. Up until today, the market had been ignoring the bad news." 

 Shares of 3M extended a slide that began Wednesday when the manufacturing giant warned about fourth-quarter results. Retail, transportation, financial and manufacturing stocks all weighed on the market, while telecommunications, biotech and semiconductor stocks also fell. But Internet and computer stocks rose. Microsoft late Thursday reported earnings in line with forecasts as the software giant continued to battle lackluster personal-computer sales. Revenue for the quarter was slightly higher than expected. Its stock rose $4.50 to $60, bolstering the Nasdaq composite and supporting the industrial average. 

 In addition to Microsoft, a string of tech companies released results in line with or exceeding views late Thursday, including Sun Microsystems, Nortel Networks and eBay. Shares of eBay rose 9% after the Internet auctioneer reported net income jumped more than sixfold while revenue climbed 81% from a year earlier. 

 But some of those companies also showed signs that the slowing economy could take its toll, which restrained the market. Sun Microsystems dropped 11% after it posted earnings that met forecasts but showed slowing revenue growth. Nortel, which rose 6%, said earnings met expectations, but the communications-equipment company noted 2001 growth will be at the low end of views. Elsewhere, Critical Path plunged 51% after the provider of Internet-messaging services posted a surprise loss late Thursday, prompting a stream of analyst downgrades. 

 Corporate earnings lifted the tech sector this week as investors turned their attention to prospects for 2001 and away from the generally dismal fourth quarter. Worries remain that a prolonged economic slowdown or recession could knock down stocks. But many now expect lower interest rates from the Federal Reserve to help the economy recover and support Wall Street. 

 Prudential's Piskorowski said the market is showing a more sober and steadied pace, with gains holding up better compared with the big jumps and drops that marked the tail end of 2000. He noted that its ability over much of the last two weeks to absorb negative news was especially encouraging. 

 "It has really said a lot about the change in investor psychology," said Piskorowski, who noted profit-taking weighed on the tech sector Friday. "This is predicated a little bit on the way the Fed has really changed course. ... That is allowing traders to overlook the short-term trough and look ahead to greener pastures." 

 Meanwhile, economic data offered more signs that the economy is slowing, supporting hopes that the Fed will cut interest rates at its Jan. 30-31 meeting. The Fed surprised Wall Street earlier this month with an aggressive half-percentage-point cut, and many are saying another such move is in the works. Most expect at least a quarter-percentage-point cut. 

 Among the reports issued Friday, the Commerce Department said that the U.S. trade gap shrank to $32.99 billion November, in line with estimates from economists, from a revised $33.55 billion in October. Imports showed the largest monthly drop in almost a decade, providing more evidence of easing consumer demand. 

 Outside the U.S., European shares returned early gains to finish mostly lower Friday. In the Asian-Pacific region, markets closed mostly higher as Thursday's advance on Wall Street provided a boost. 

 In major U.S. market action: 

 Stocks were mixed. On the Big Board, where 821 million shares traded, 1,565 stocks declined and 1,163 advanced. 

 On the Nasdaq market, 1.60 billion shares changed hands. Bonds declined. The 10-year Treasury note was down 1/4, or $2.50 for each $1,000 invested. The yield, which moves inversely to price, rose to 5.15%. The 30-year bond fell more than 7/8 to yield 5.54%. 

 The dollar was mixed. It traded at 93.69 cents to the euro and 117.23 yen to the dollar, compared with 94.54 cents to the euro and 118.02 yen to the dollar late Thursday in New York. 

 For continuously updated news from The Wall Street Journal, see WSJ.com at http://wsj.com. 

Document dj00000020010711dx1j025ty




 MARKET TALK: Further Economic Decline Could Pinch Consumer 

1,314 words
19 January 2001
17:53
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



12:54 (Dow Jones) In last year's 3Q, homeowners owed a record high 46%
of the value of their homes between first mortgages and home equity
credit lines. Also, margin debt fell from $278B last March to just under
$200B last month. Historically, margin balances often fall to roughly
10% of their previous highs. Even an overall decline of 50% leaves
another $60B or so in shrinkage yet to occur. The consumer's debt-paying
ability is clearly in considerably more precarious shape with any
sustained economic decline. (GK)



12:28 (Dow Jones) Congressional Republicans will huddle with
President-elect George W. Bush at the White House Monday - Bush's first
business day in office - to discuss the new president's agenda and how
to move it through Congress, Senate Republican Leader Trent Lott,
R-Miss., said. (MHA)



12:19 (Dow Jones) MeriStar Hospitality Corp.'s (MHX) issue expected to
price this afternoon via Lehman has been upsized, say sources familiar
with the deal. In addition to the $300M 7-year notes with price talk of
yield 9%-9.125%, the company now plans an additional $200M 10-year notes
expected to yield 1/8 point higher than the 7-years. (RTB)



12:13 (Dow Jones) Senate GOP Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss., said Friday
that the Senate will likely approve a bulk of President-elect George W.
Bush's cabinet nominees by the end of next week. Lott said the Senate
plans Saturday to confirm former Alcoa Inc. CEO Paul O'Neill as the new
Treasury Secretary and retired Gen. Colin Powell as Secretary of State.
(DMK)



12:03 (Dow Jones) Despite meeting analysts' fourth-quarter earnings
views, investors have some concerns about Genentech (DNA). The biotech
company's 2001 EPS growth guidance of 20% to 25%; lower-than-expected
Herceptin sales for the third consecutive quarter; slowing demand of its
growth hormone products Nutropin and Nutropin Depot; cautious comments
about a possible delay of its experimental asthma treatment Xolair; and
higher expenses in 2001 forced some in the investment community to
question the stock's high-flying premium. Shares of Genentech fell 11%.
(BMM)



11:59 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps trade quietly weaker in light volume.
Traders say the market is likely consolidating after Thursday's gains.
"It seems we overshot it yesterday," one trader says. He adds part of
the market's weakness comes from some technical analysis that
recommended selling March S&Ps if the market did not open above 1373.50.
(DMC)



11:50 (Dow Jones) ADC Telecommunications (ADCT) became a Wall Street
whipping boy Friday as a number of analysts cut their ratings on the
stock after the company slashed 1Q earnings estimates in half. ABN-AMRO
analyst Ken Leon says a "'combination of management in transition and
weaker market conditions causes us to be less than supportive." At least
four other analysts also cut their ratings. "Historically, the January
quarter has been ADC's most challenging," says Josephthal & Co. analyst
Lawrence Harris, who cut ADC to hold from buy. "When carrier spending
tends to be on the low side, it exacerbates the problem." (JDB)



11:31 (Dow Jones) Early rumors of derivatives losses at a French bank
refuse to go away. The talk hasn't had a direct impact, but it is making
potential buyers of the major bond contracts a lot more reticent, says
dealer. (NK)



11:20 (Dow Jones) Here's why stocks will probably stage another retest
of recent lows, as Jeff deGraaf, technical analyst at Lehman Brothers,
sees it. First, volume expanded at the recent bottom. This can happen at
ultimate bottoms, he says, but usually only when the bottom is
capitulative, and he doesn't think it was. Next, volatility was
expanding at lows, when it usually contracts as investors start to
neglect the market and the selling and buying forces diminish. Momentum
was not decelerating at the bottom, which is usually indicative of a
"testing" phase, and sentiment surveys were not resoundingly bearish,
but moderately complacent. (TG)



11:08 (Dow Jones) The U.S. recovery may prove to be V-shaped. But has
it reached the bottom of the V yet? If it hasn't, says Mark Cliffe at
ING Barings, then expect market to become even more optimistic about
rate cuts in U.S. and Europe. (NEH)



11:01 (Dow Jones) Putnam Lovell Securities downgrades Charles Schwab
Corp. (SCH) to hold from buy, a day after Schwab reported 4Q earnings
below expectations. Analyst Richard Repetto cites stock valuation
(despite the 24% drop in the shares over the past six months), market
conditions, and difficult year-over-year comparisons. Schwab shares are
flat at $27.50. (GFC)



10:54 (Dow Jones) Feb. Nymex crude sharply higher, gaining 75 cents a
barrel to intraday high of $31.20, after contract hits buy stops at
$30.50. Resistance seen at $31.40 and $32/bbl. "Obviously, OPEC cutback
is underpinning (nearby crude)," analyst says. (MSX)



10:45 (Dow Jones) The presumed market dominance of B2B darlings Ariba
(ARBA) and Commerce One (CMRC) is waning, warns CIBC. These software
firms have focused on online procurement as the core of B2B, but over
the last six months "it has become clear that this is not the direction
the world is heading." Rather, supply chain collaboration is the brass
ring of B2B and these companies have limited capabilities there, analyst
Melissa Eisenstat warns. She downgrades Ariba and Commerce One noting
there is "substantial risk" if they are unable to adapt to these
industry changes. (MLP)



10:41 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq finds support at 2655 and is using that
level as a springboard back to near unchanged. Traders say that level is
key as it is close to the high put in on Jan. 3 (2650), the day of the
Fed rate cut. "It's a good sign to see it hold, it could be a base," one
pit trader says. (DMC)



10:38 (Dow Jones) It's been an optimistic two weeks for stocks, but
now an options sentiment indicator is showing up bearish. The CBOE's
equity put/call ratio this morning is at 0.37, with 268,282 calls traded
to 100,219 puts. That ratio is seen as a contrarian sentiment indicator
- when too many traders are bullish, then the smart move is to be
bearish. As such, that indicator is considered bullish when between 0.75
to 1, neutral from 0.40 to 0.75, and bearish when below 0.40. The
question is if it'll stay bearish through this session. (KXT)



10:32 (Dow Jones) March S&PS act soft even though the contract bounces
off lows. "We act like we can go lower," one trader says. Weakness in
March DJIA lends pressure. Merrill Lynch and Goldman buyers, while
Lehman and locals are sellers. Profit taking could be weighing on
market, he says. (DMC)



10:28 (Dow Jones) Secondary offerings have been mostly successful for
investors lately, but there's a notable exception today. Capital One
(COF) sold 6.5 million shares at $62 each through J.P. Morgan, but the
shares are now down to $60.69. (RJH)



10:22 (Dow Jones) Following Home Depot's (HD) fiscal 4Q profitwarning, Lehman Brothers analyst Alan Rifkin cut his earnings estimate
for fiscal 2002 to $1.30 a share from $1.58, reflecting his view that
sales growth will be slow in the first half of the year. His new
estimate reflects a same-store sales increase of 2.5% to 3% in fiscal
2002, down from his earlier estimate for a 3.5% same-store sales rise.
(PAP)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1j025s9




 MARKET TALK: GOP Congress Members To Meet Mon. With Bush 

1,526 words
19 January 2001
17:28
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



12:28 (Dow Jones) Congressional Republicans will huddle with
President-elect George W. Bush at the White House Monday - Bush's first
business day in office - to discuss the new president's agenda and how
to move it through Congress, Senate Republican Leader Trent Lott,
R-Miss., said. (MHA)



12:19 (Dow Jones) MeriStar Hospitality Corp.'s (MHX) issue expected to
price this afternoon via Lehman has been upsized, say sources familiar
with the deal. In addition to the $300M 7-year notes with price talk of
yield 9%-9.125%, the company now plans an additional $200M 10-year notes
expected to yield 1/8 point higher than the 7-years. (RTB)



12:13 (Dow Jones) Senate GOP Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss., said Friday
that the Senate will likely approve a bulk of President-elect George W.
Bush's cabinet nominees by the end of next week. Lott said the Senate
plans Saturday to confirm former Alcoa Inc. CEO Paul O'Neill as the new
Treasury Secretary and retired Gen. Colin Powell as Secretary of State.
(DMK)



12:03 (Dow Jones) Despite meeting analysts' fourth-quarter earnings
views, investors have some concerns about Genentech (DNA). The biotech
company's 2001 EPS growth guidance of 20% to 25%; lower-than-expected
Herceptin sales for the third consecutive quarter; slowing demand of its
growth hormone products Nutropin and Nutropin Depot; cautious comments
about a possible delay of its experimental asthma treatment Xolair; and
higher expenses in 2001 forced some in the investment community to
question the stock's high-flying premium. Shares of Genentech fell 11%.
(BMM)



11:59 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps trade quietly weaker in light volume.
Traders say the market is likely consolidating after Thursday's gains.
"It seems we overshot it yesterday," one trader says. He adds part of
the market's weakness comes from some technical analysis that
recommended selling March S&Ps if the market did not open above 1373.50.
(DMC)



11:50 (Dow Jones) ADC Telecommunications (ADCT) became a Wall Street
whipping boy Friday as a number of analysts cut their ratings on the
stock after the company slashed 1Q earnings estimates in half. ABN-AMRO
analyst Ken Leon says a "'combination of management in transition and
weaker market conditions causes us to be less than supportive." At least
four other analysts also cut their ratings. "Historically, the January
quarter has been ADC's most challenging," says Josephthal & Co. analyst
Lawrence Harris, who cut ADC to hold from buy. "When carrier spending
tends to be on the low side, it exacerbates the problem." (JDB)



11:31 (Dow Jones) Early rumors of derivatives losses at a French bank
refuse to go away. The talk hasn't had a direct impact, but it is making
potential buyers of the major bond contracts a lot more reticent, says
dealer. (NK)



11:20 (Dow Jones) Here's why stocks will probably stage another retest
of recent lows, as Jeff deGraaf, technical analyst at Lehman Brothers,
sees it. First, volume expanded at the recent bottom. This can happen at
ultimate bottoms, he says, but usually only when the bottom is
capitulative, and he doesn't think it was. Next, volatility was
expanding at lows, when it usually contracts as investors start to
neglect the market and the selling and buying forces diminish. Momentum
was not decelerating at the bottom, which is usually indicative of a
"testing" phase, and sentiment surveys were not resoundingly bearish,
but moderately complacent. (TG)



11:08 (Dow Jones) The U.S. recovery may prove to be V-shaped. But has
it reached the bottom of the V yet? If it hasn't, says Mark Cliffe at
ING Barings, then expect market to become even more optimistic about
rate cuts in U.S. and Europe. (NEH)



11:01 (Dow Jones) Putnam Lovell Securities downgrades Charles Schwab
Corp. (SCH) to hold from buy, a day after Schwab reported 4Q earnings
below expectations. Analyst Richard Repetto cites stock valuation
(despite the 24% drop in the shares over the past six months), market
conditions, and difficult year-over-year comparisons. Schwab shares are
flat at $27.50. (GFC)



10:54 (Dow Jones) Feb. Nymex crude sharply higher, gaining 75 cents a
barrel to intraday high of $31.20, after contract hits buy stops at
$30.50. Resistance seen at $31.40 and $32/bbl. "Obviously, OPEC cutback
is underpinning (nearby crude)," analyst says. (MSX)



10:45 (Dow Jones) The presumed market dominance of B2B darlings Ariba
(ARBA) and Commerce One (CMRC) is waning, warns CIBC. These software
firms have focused on online procurement as the core of B2B, but over
the last six months "it has become clear that this is not the direction
the world is heading." Rather, supply chain collaboration is the brass
ring of B2B and these companies have limited capabilities there, analyst
Melissa Eisenstat warns. She downgrades Ariba and Commerce One noting
there is "substantial risk" if they are unable to adapt to these
industry changes. (MLP)



10:41 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq finds support at 2655 and is using that
level as a springboard back to near unchanged. Traders say that level is
key as it is close to the high put in on Jan. 3 (2650), the day of the
Fed rate cut. "It's a good sign to see it hold, it could be a base," one
pit trader says. (DMC)



10:38 (Dow Jones) It's been an optimistic two weeks for stocks, but
now an options sentiment indicator is showing up bearish. The CBOE's
equity put/call ratio this morning is at 0.37, with 268,282 calls traded
to 100,219 puts. That ratio is seen as a contrarian sentiment indicator
- when too many traders are bullish, then the smart move is to be
bearish. As such, that indicator is considered bullish when between 0.75
to 1, neutral from 0.40 to 0.75, and bearish when below 0.40. The
question is if it'll stay bearish through this session. (KXT)



10:32 (Dow Jones) March S&PS act soft even though the contract bounces
off lows. "We act like we can go lower," one trader says. Weakness in
March DJIA lends pressure. Merrill Lynch and Goldman buyers, while
Lehman and locals are sellers. Profit taking could be weighing on
market, he says. (DMC)



10:28 (Dow Jones) Secondary offerings have been mostly successful for
investors lately, but there's a notable exception today. Capital One
(COF) sold 6.5 million shares at $62 each through J.P. Morgan, but the
shares are now down to $60.69. (RJH)



10:22 (Dow Jones) Following Home Depot's (HD) fiscal 4Q profitwarning, Lehman Brothers analyst Alan Rifkin cut his earnings estimate
for fiscal 2002 to $1.30 a share from $1.58, reflecting his view that
sales growth will be slow in the first half of the year. His new
estimate reflects a same-store sales increase of 2.5% to 3% in fiscal
2002, down from his earlier estimate for a 3.5% same-store sales rise.
(PAP)



10:18 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq is in negative territory as the market
makes new session lows. Support seen at 2660, 2640 and 2595. Resistance
seen at 2765 and 2805, an off-floor technical trader says. (DMC)



10:14 (Dow Jones) Drop in the headline Michigan index to 93.6 was much
weaker than the consensus of 99.0. But as a result of Thursday's weak
Philly Fed survey, the market was already set up for a poor Michigan
result, so the reaction is limited. It still backs view Fed will act on
Jan 31, with the expectations index falling to 84.2 from 90.7 in Dec.,
dealers say. (NK)



10:11 (Dow Jones) Is it the market volatility or are more investors
warming up to options trading? More than 5.29 million options contracts
traded yesterday - a new daily options volume record, according to the
Options Industry Council. That is 38% higher than the year-to-date daily
average volume of 3.83 million, which in turn is higher than last year's
average daily volume of 2.8 million, as more investors look to options
to manage the risk of their stock portfolios. (KXT)



10:06 (Dow Jones)  Mr. & Mrs. America still have pricey homes, but
they evidently aren't willing to undertake major remodeling projects
anymore. DJIA component Home Depot (HD) 4Q warning about tough economy
affecting net is the other, bigger shoe dropping after Lowe's (LOW)
warning on its 4Q back in December. Interesting that a lot of these
economy-based warnings seem to posit that 2H could be better. True,
another Fed cut or two will help, but there's also risk that recession
could kick in. Some say it already has in manufacturing sector. HD off
nearly 5% early. (GC)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1j025re




 MARKET TALK: MeriStar's Junk Issue Upsized To $500M 

1,476 words
19 January 2001
17:19
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



12:19 (Dow Jones) MeriStar Hospitality Corp.'s (MHX) issue expected to
price this afternoon via Lehman has been upsized, say sources familiar
with the deal. In addition to the $300M 7-year notes with price talk of
yield 9%-9.125%, the company now plans an additional $200M 10-year notes
expected to yield 1/8 point higher than the 7-years. (RTB)



12:13 (Dow Jones) Senate GOP Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss., said Friday
that the Senate will likely approve a bulk of President-elect George W.
Bush's cabinet nominees by the end of next week. Lott said the Senate
plans Saturday to confirm former Alcoa Inc. CEO Paul O'Neill as the new
Treasury Secretary and retired Gen. Colin Powell as Secretary of State.
(DMK)



12:03 (Dow Jones) Despite meeting analysts' fourth-quarter earnings
views, investors have some concerns about Genentech (DNA). The biotech
company's 2001 EPS growth guidance of 20% to 25%; lower-than-expected
Herceptin sales for the third consecutive quarter; slowing demand of its
growth hormone products Nutropin and Nutropin Depot; cautious comments
about a possible delay of its experimental asthma treatment Xolair; and
higher expenses in 2001 forced some in the investment community to
question the stock's high-flying premium. Shares of Genentech fell 11%.
(BMM)



11:59 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps trade quietly weaker in light volume.
Traders say the market is likely consolidating after Thursday's gains.
"It seems we overshot it yesterday," one trader says. He adds part of
the market's weakness comes from some technical analysis that
recommended selling March S&Ps if the market did not open above 1373.50.
(DMC)



11:50 (Dow Jones) ADC Telecommunications (ADCT) became a Wall Street
whipping boy Friday as a number of analysts cut their ratings on the
stock after the company slashed 1Q earnings estimates in half. ABN-AMRO
analyst Ken Leon says a "'combination of management in transition and
weaker market conditions causes us to be less than supportive." At least
four other analysts also cut their ratings. "Historically, the January
quarter has been ADC's most challenging," says Josephthal & Co. analyst
Lawrence Harris, who cut ADC to hold from buy. "When carrier spending
tends to be on the low side, it exacerbates the problem." (JDB)



11:31 (Dow Jones) Early rumors of derivatives losses at a French bank
refuse to go away. The talk hasn't had a direct impact, but it is making
potential buyers of the major bond contracts a lot more reticent, says
dealer. (NK)



11:20 (Dow Jones) Here's why stocks will probably stage another retest
of recent lows, as Jeff deGraaf, technical analyst at Lehman Brothers,
sees it. First, volume expanded at the recent bottom. This can happen at
ultimate bottoms, he says, but usually only when the bottom is
capitulative, and he doesn't think it was. Next, volatility was
expanding at lows, when it usually contracts as investors start to
neglect the market and the selling and buying forces diminish. Momentum
was not decelerating at the bottom, which is usually indicative of a
"testing" phase, and sentiment surveys were not resoundingly bearish,
but moderately complacent. (TG)



11:08 (Dow Jones) The U.S. recovery may prove to be V-shaped. But has
it reached the bottom of the V yet? If it hasn't, says Mark Cliffe at
ING Barings, then expect market to become even more optimistic about
rate cuts in U.S. and Europe. (NEH)



11:01 (Dow Jones) Putnam Lovell Securities downgrades Charles Schwab
Corp. (SCH) to hold from buy, a day after Schwab reported 4Q earnings
below expectations. Analyst Richard Repetto cites stock valuation
(despite the 24% drop in the shares over the past six months), market
conditions, and difficult year-over-year comparisons. Schwab shares are
flat at $27.50. (GFC)



10:54 (Dow Jones) Feb. Nymex crude sharply higher, gaining 75 cents a
barrel to intraday high of $31.20, after contract hits buy stops at
$30.50. Resistance seen at $31.40 and $32/bbl. "Obviously, OPEC cutback
is underpinning (nearby crude)," analyst says. (MSX)



10:45 (Dow Jones) The presumed market dominance of B2B darlings Ariba
(ARBA) and Commerce One (CMRC) is waning, warns CIBC. These software
firms have focused on online procurement as the core of B2B, but over
the last six months "it has become clear that this is not the direction
the world is heading." Rather, supply chain collaboration is the brass
ring of B2B and these companies have limited capabilities there, analyst
Melissa Eisenstat warns. She downgrades Ariba and Commerce One noting
there is "substantial risk" if they are unable to adapt to these
industry changes. (MLP)



10:41 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq finds support at 2655 and is using that
level as a springboard back to near unchanged. Traders say that level is
key as it is close to the high put in on Jan. 3 (2650), the day of the
Fed rate cut. "It's a good sign to see it hold, it could be a base," one
pit trader says. (DMC)



10:38 (Dow Jones) It's been an optimistic two weeks for stocks, but
now an options sentiment indicator is showing up bearish. The CBOE's
equity put/call ratio this morning is at 0.37, with 268,282 calls traded
to 100,219 puts. That ratio is seen as a contrarian sentiment indicator
- when too many traders are bullish, then the smart move is to be
bearish. As such, that indicator is considered bullish when between 0.75
to 1, neutral from 0.40 to 0.75, and bearish when below 0.40. The
question is if it'll stay bearish through this session. (KXT)



10:32 (Dow Jones) March S&PS act soft even though the contract bounces
off lows. "We act like we can go lower," one trader says. Weakness in
March DJIA lends pressure. Merrill Lynch and Goldman buyers, while
Lehman and locals are sellers. Profit taking could be weighing on
market, he says. (DMC)



10:28 (Dow Jones) Secondary offerings have been mostly successful for
investors lately, but there's a notable exception today. Capital One
(COF) sold 6.5 million shares at $62 each through J.P. Morgan, but the
shares are now down to $60.69. (RJH)



10:22 (Dow Jones) Following Home Depot's (HD) fiscal 4Q profitwarning, Lehman Brothers analyst Alan Rifkin cut his earnings estimate
for fiscal 2002 to $1.30 a share from $1.58, reflecting his view that
sales growth will be slow in the first half of the year. His new
estimate reflects a same-store sales increase of 2.5% to 3% in fiscal
2002, down from his earlier estimate for a 3.5% same-store sales rise.
(PAP)



10:18 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq is in negative territory as the market
makes new session lows. Support seen at 2660, 2640 and 2595. Resistance
seen at 2765 and 2805, an off-floor technical trader says. (DMC)



10:14 (Dow Jones) Drop in the headline Michigan index to 93.6 was much
weaker than the consensus of 99.0. But as a result of Thursday's weak
Philly Fed survey, the market was already set up for a poor Michigan
result, so the reaction is limited. It still backs view Fed will act on
Jan 31, with the expectations index falling to 84.2 from 90.7 in Dec.,
dealers say. (NK)



10:11 (Dow Jones) Is it the market volatility or are more investors
warming up to options trading? More than 5.29 million options contracts
traded yesterday - a new daily options volume record, according to the
Options Industry Council. That is 38% higher than the year-to-date daily
average volume of 3.83 million, which in turn is higher than last year's
average daily volume of 2.8 million, as more investors look to options
to manage the risk of their stock portfolios. (KXT)



10:06 (Dow Jones)  Mr. & Mrs. America still have pricey homes, but
they evidently aren't willing to undertake major remodeling projects
anymore. DJIA component Home Depot (HD) 4Q warning about tough economy
affecting net is the other, bigger shoe dropping after Lowe's (LOW)
warning on its 4Q back in December. Interesting that a lot of these
economy-based warnings seem to posit that 2H could be better. True,
another Fed cut or two will help, but there's also risk that recession
could kick in. Some say it already has in manufacturing sector. HD off
nearly 5% early. (GC)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1j025qk




 MARKET TALK: Most Of Bush's Cabinet To Get OK Next Week 

1,415 words
19 January 2001
17:13
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



12:13 (Dow Jones) Senate GOP Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss., said Friday
that the Senate will likely approve a bulk of President-elect George W.
Bush's cabinet nominees by the end of next week. Lott said the Senate
plans Saturday to confirm former Alcoa Inc. CEO Paul O'Neill as the new
Treasury Secretary and retired Gen. Colin Powell as Secretary of State.
(DMK)



12:03 (Dow Jones) Despite meeting analysts' fourth-quarter earnings
views, investors have some concerns about Genentech (DNA). The biotech
company's 2001 EPS growth guidance of 20% to 25%; lower-than-expected
Herceptin sales for the third consecutive quarter; slowing demand of its
growth hormone products Nutropin and Nutropin Depot; cautious comments
about a possible delay of its experimental asthma treatment Xolair; and
higher expenses in 2001 forced some in the investment community to
question the stock's high-flying premium. Shares of Genentech fell 11%.
(BMM)



11:59 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps trade quietly weaker in light volume.
Traders say the market is likely consolidating after Thursday's gains.
"It seems we overshot it yesterday," one trader says. He adds part of
the market's weakness comes from some technical analysis that
recommended selling March S&Ps if the market did not open above 1373.50.
(DMC)



11:50 (Dow Jones) ADC Telecommunications (ADCT) became a Wall Street
whipping boy Friday as a number of analysts cut their ratings on the
stock after the company slashed 1Q earnings estimates in half. ABN-AMRO
analyst Ken Leon says a "'combination of management in transition and
weaker market conditions causes us to be less than supportive." At least
four other analysts also cut their ratings. "Historically, the January
quarter has been ADC's most challenging," says Josephthal & Co. analyst
Lawrence Harris, who cut ADC to hold from buy. "When carrier spending
tends to be on the low side, it exacerbates the problem." (JDB)



11:31 (Dow Jones) Early rumors of derivatives losses at a French bank
refuse to go away. The talk hasn't had a direct impact, but it is making
potential buyers of the major bond contracts a lot more reticent, says
dealer. (NK)



11:20 (Dow Jones) Here's why stocks will probably stage another retest
of recent lows, as Jeff deGraaf, technical analyst at Lehman Brothers,
sees it. First, volume expanded at the recent bottom. This can happen at
ultimate bottoms, he says, but usually only when the bottom is
capitulative, and he doesn't think it was. Next, volatility was
expanding at lows, when it usually contracts as investors start to
neglect the market and the selling and buying forces diminish. Momentum
was not decelerating at the bottom, which is usually indicative of a
"testing" phase, and sentiment surveys were not resoundingly bearish,
but moderately complacent. (TG)



11:08 (Dow Jones) The U.S. recovery may prove to be V-shaped. But has
it reached the bottom of the V yet? If it hasn't, says Mark Cliffe at
ING Barings, then expect market to become even more optimistic about
rate cuts in U.S. and Europe. (NEH)



11:01 (Dow Jones) Putnam Lovell Securities downgrades Charles Schwab
Corp. (SCH) to hold from buy, a day after Schwab reported 4Q earnings
below expectations. Analyst Richard Repetto cites stock valuation
(despite the 24% drop in the shares over the past six months), market
conditions, and difficult year-over-year comparisons. Schwab shares are
flat at $27.50. (GFC)



10:54 (Dow Jones) Feb. Nymex crude sharply higher, gaining 75 cents a
barrel to intraday high of $31.20, after contract hits buy stops at
$30.50. Resistance seen at $31.40 and $32/bbl. "Obviously, OPEC cutback
is underpinning (nearby crude)," analyst says. (MSX)



10:45 (Dow Jones) The presumed market dominance of B2B darlings Ariba
(ARBA) and Commerce One (CMRC) is waning, warns CIBC. These software
firms have focused on online procurement as the core of B2B, but over
the last six months "it has become clear that this is not the direction
the world is heading." Rather, supply chain collaboration is the brass
ring of B2B and these companies have limited capabilities there, analyst
Melissa Eisenstat warns. She downgrades Ariba and Commerce One noting
there is "substantial risk" if they are unable to adapt to these
industry changes. (MLP)



10:41 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq finds support at 2655 and is using that
level as a springboard back to near unchanged. Traders say that level is
key as it is close to the high put in on Jan. 3 (2650), the day of the
Fed rate cut. "It's a good sign to see it hold, it could be a base," one
pit trader says. (DMC)



10:38 (Dow Jones) It's been an optimistic two weeks for stocks, but
now an options sentiment indicator is showing up bearish. The CBOE's
equity put/call ratio this morning is at 0.37, with 268,282 calls traded
to 100,219 puts. That ratio is seen as a contrarian sentiment indicator
- when too many traders are bullish, then the smart move is to be
bearish. As such, that indicator is considered bullish when between 0.75
to 1, neutral from 0.40 to 0.75, and bearish when below 0.40. The
question is if it'll stay bearish through this session. (KXT)



10:32 (Dow Jones) March S&PS act soft even though the contract bounces
off lows. "We act like we can go lower," one trader says. Weakness in
March DJIA lends pressure. Merrill Lynch and Goldman buyers, while
Lehman and locals are sellers. Profit taking could be weighing on
market, he says. (DMC)



10:28 (Dow Jones) Secondary offerings have been mostly successful for
investors lately, but there's a notable exception today. Capital One
(COF) sold 6.5 million shares at $62 each through J.P. Morgan, but the
shares are now down to $60.69. (RJH)



10:22 (Dow Jones) Following Home Depot's (HD) fiscal 4Q profitwarning, Lehman Brothers analyst Alan Rifkin cut his earnings estimate
for fiscal 2002 to $1.30 a share from $1.58, reflecting his view that
sales growth will be slow in the first half of the year. His new
estimate reflects a same-store sales increase of 2.5% to 3% in fiscal
2002, down from his earlier estimate for a 3.5% same-store sales rise.
(PAP)



10:18 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq is in negative territory as the market
makes new session lows. Support seen at 2660, 2640 and 2595. Resistance
seen at 2765 and 2805, an off-floor technical trader says. (DMC)



10:14 (Dow Jones) Drop in the headline Michigan index to 93.6 was much
weaker than the consensus of 99.0. But as a result of Thursday's weak
Philly Fed survey, the market was already set up for a poor Michigan
result, so the reaction is limited. It still backs view Fed will act on
Jan 31, with the expectations index falling to 84.2 from 90.7 in Dec.,
dealers say. (NK)



10:11 (Dow Jones) Is it the market volatility or are more investors
warming up to options trading? More than 5.29 million options contracts
traded yesterday - a new daily options volume record, according to the
Options Industry Council. That is 38% higher than the year-to-date daily
average volume of 3.83 million, which in turn is higher than last year's
average daily volume of 2.8 million, as more investors look to options
to manage the risk of their stock portfolios. (KXT)



10:06 (Dow Jones)  Mr. & Mrs. America still have pricey homes, but
they evidently aren't willing to undertake major remodeling projects
anymore. DJIA component Home Depot (HD) 4Q warning about tough economy
affecting net is the other, bigger shoe dropping after Lowe's (LOW)
warning on its 4Q back in December. Interesting that a lot of these
economy-based warnings seem to posit that 2H could be better. True,
another Fed cut or two will help, but there's also risk that recession
could kick in. Some say it already has in manufacturing sector. HD off
nearly 5% early. (GC)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1j025q2




 MARKET TALK: Investors Concerns Drive Genentech Stk Lower 

1,514 words
19 January 2001
17:02
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



12:03 (Dow Jones) Despite meeting analysts' fourth-quarter earnings
views, investors have some concerns about Genentech (DNA). The biotech
company's 2001 EPS growth guidance of 20% to 25%; lower-than-expected
Herceptin sales for the third consecutive quarter; slowing demand of its
growth hormone products Nutropin and Nutropin Depot; cautious comments
about a possible delay of its experimental asthma treatment Xolair; and
higher expenses in 2001 forced some in the investment community to
question the stock's high-flying premium. Shares of Genentech fell 11%.
(BMM)



11:59 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps trade quietly weaker in light volume.
Traders say the market is likely consolidating after Thursday's gains.
"It seems we overshot it yesterday," one trader says. He adds part of
the market's weakness comes from some technical analysis that
recommended selling March S&Ps if the market did not open above 1373.50.
(DMC)



11:50 (Dow Jones) ADC Telecommunications (ADCT) became a Wall Street
whipping boy Friday as a number of analysts cut their ratings on the
stock after the company slashed 1Q earnings estimates in half. ABN-AMRO
analyst Ken Leon says a "'combination of management in transition and
weaker market conditions causes us to be less than supportive." At least
four other analysts also cut their ratings. "Historically, the January
quarter has been ADC's most challenging," says Josephthal & Co. analyst
Lawrence Harris, who cut ADC to hold from buy. "When carrier spending
tends to be on the low side, it exacerbates the problem." (JDB)



11:31 (Dow Jones) Early rumors of derivatives losses at a French bank
refuse to go away. The talk hasn't had a direct impact, but it is making
potential buyers of the major bond contracts a lot more reticent, says
dealer. (NK)



11:20 (Dow Jones) Here's why stocks will probably stage another retest
of recent lows, as Jeff deGraaf, technical analyst at Lehman Brothers,
sees it. First, volume expanded at the recent bottom. This can happen at
ultimate bottoms, he says, but usually only when the bottom is
capitulative, and he doesn't think it was. Next, volatility was
expanding at lows, when it usually contracts as investors start to
neglect the market and the selling and buying forces diminish. Momentum
was not decelerating at the bottom, which is usually indicative of a
"testing" phase, and sentiment surveys were not resoundingly bearish,
but moderately complacent. (TG)



11:08 (Dow Jones) The U.S. recovery may prove to be V-shaped. But has
it reached the bottom of the V yet? If it hasn't, says Mark Cliffe at
ING Barings, then expect market to become even more optimistic about
rate cuts in U.S. and Europe. (NEH)



11:01 (Dow Jones) Putnam Lovell Securities downgrades Charles Schwab
Corp. (SCH) to hold from buy, a day after Schwab reported 4Q earnings
below expectations. Analyst Richard Repetto cites stock valuation
(despite the 24% drop in the shares over the past six months), market
conditions, and difficult year-over-year comparisons. Schwab shares are
flat at $27.50. (GFC)



10:54 (Dow Jones) Feb. Nymex crude sharply higher, gaining 75 cents a
barrel to intraday high of $31.20, after contract hits buy stops at
$30.50. Resistance seen at $31.40 and $32/bbl. "Obviously, OPEC cutback
is underpinning (nearby crude)," analyst says. (MSX)



10:45 (Dow Jones) The presumed market dominance of B2B darlings Ariba
(ARBA) and Commerce One (CMRC) is waning, warns CIBC. These software
firms have focused on online procurement as the core of B2B, but over
the last six months "it has become clear that this is not the direction
the world is heading." Rather, supply chain collaboration is the brass
ring of B2B and these companies have limited capabilities there, analyst
Melissa Eisenstat warns. She downgrades Ariba and Commerce One noting
there is "substantial risk" if they are unable to adapt to these
industry changes. (MLP)



10:41 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq finds support at 2655 and is using that
level as a springboard back to near unchanged. Traders say that level is
key as it is close to the high put in on Jan. 3 (2650), the day of the
Fed rate cut. "It's a good sign to see it hold, it could be a base," one
pit trader says. (DMC)



10:38 (Dow Jones) It's been an optimistic two weeks for stocks, but
now an options sentiment indicator is showing up bearish. The CBOE's
equity put/call ratio this morning is at 0.37, with 268,282 calls traded
to 100,219 puts. That ratio is seen as a contrarian sentiment indicator
- when too many traders are bullish, then the smart move is to be
bearish. As such, that indicator is considered bullish when between 0.75
to 1, neutral from 0.40 to 0.75, and bearish when below 0.40. The
question is if it'll stay bearish through this session. (KXT)



10:32 (Dow Jones) March S&PS act soft even though the contract bounces
off lows. "We act like we can go lower," one trader says. Weakness in
March DJIA lends pressure. Merrill Lynch and Goldman buyers, while
Lehman and locals are sellers. Profit taking could be weighing on
market, he says. (DMC)



10:28 (Dow Jones) Secondary offerings have been mostly successful for
investors lately, but there's a notable exception today. Capital One
(COF) sold 6.5 million shares at $62 each through J.P. Morgan, but the
shares are now down to $60.69. (RJH)



10:22 (Dow Jones) Following Home Depot's (HD) fiscal 4Q profitwarning, Lehman Brothers analyst Alan Rifkin cut his earnings estimate
for fiscal 2002 to $1.30 a share from $1.58, reflecting his view that
sales growth will be slow in the first half of the year. His new
estimate reflects a same-store sales increase of 2.5% to 3% in fiscal
2002, down from his earlier estimate for a 3.5% same-store sales rise.
(PAP)



10:18 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq is in negative territory as the market
makes new session lows. Support seen at 2660, 2640 and 2595. Resistance
seen at 2765 and 2805, an off-floor technical trader says. (DMC)



10:14 (Dow Jones) Drop in the headline Michigan index to 93.6 was much
weaker than the consensus of 99.0. But as a result of Thursday's weak
Philly Fed survey, the market was already set up for a poor Michigan
result, so the reaction is limited. It still backs view Fed will act on
Jan 31, with the expectations index falling to 84.2 from 90.7 in Dec.,
dealers say. (NK)



10:11 (Dow Jones) Is it the market volatility or are more investors
warming up to options trading? More than 5.29 million options contracts
traded yesterday - a new daily options volume record, according to the
Options Industry Council. That is 38% higher than the year-to-date daily
average volume of 3.83 million, which in turn is higher than last year's
average daily volume of 2.8 million, as more investors look to options
to manage the risk of their stock portfolios. (KXT)



10:06 (Dow Jones)  Mr. & Mrs. America still have pricey homes, but
they evidently aren't willing to undertake major remodeling projects
anymore. DJIA component Home Depot (HD) 4Q warning about tough economy
affecting net is the other, bigger shoe dropping after Lowe's (LOW)
warning on its 4Q back in December. Interesting that a lot of these
economy-based warnings seem to posit that 2H could be better. True,
another Fed cut or two will help, but there's also risk that recession
could kick in. Some say it already has in manufacturing sector. HD off
nearly 5% early. (GC)



10:04 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq firmer, but off highs. Despite
pullback, traders say the market appears to have created a trend with
the recent firmer closes. "It's been a slow grind up, and that's a good
sign," one says. "It means we're consolidating." However, they're not
sure whether this is a short-term trend or something more substantial.
"We have to get much higher, back into the mid-3000s before we call this
more than a correction." (DMC)



9:48 (Dow Jones) EBay Inc. (EBAY) has bucked the trend of
less-than-rosy dot-com news, and its stock is soaring. The online
marketplace reported stronger-than-consensus revenue and EPS numbers of
$134M and 9c, respectively, Thursday night. Consensus was $125.5M and
7c. Analysts characterized eBay's various metrics as strong across the
board, despite the economic slowdown in the fourth quarter. Meanwhile,
the company noted that a California court had dismissed a lawsuit
against eBay over allegedly fraudulent sports memorabilia. (RS)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1j025pc




 MARKET TALK: Technicals May Be Behind March S&Ps Softness 

1,429 words
19 January 2001
17:00
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



11:59 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps trade quietly weaker in light volume.
Traders say the market is likely consolidating after Thursday's gains.
"It seems we overshot it yesterday," one trader says. He adds part of
the market's weakness comes from some technical analysis that
recommended selling March S&Ps if the market did not open above 1373.50.
(DMC)



11:50 (Dow Jones) ADC Telecommunications (ADCT) became a Wall Street
whipping boy Friday as a number of analysts cut their ratings on the
stock after the company slashed 1Q earnings estimates in half. ABN-AMRO
analyst Ken Leon says a "'combination of management in transition and
weaker market conditions causes us to be less than supportive." At least
four other analysts also cut their ratings. "Historically, the January
quarter has been ADC's most challenging," says Josephthal & Co. analyst
Lawrence Harris, who cut ADC to hold from buy. "When carrier spending
tends to be on the low side, it exacerbates the problem." (JDB)



11:31 (Dow Jones) Early rumors of derivatives losses at a French bank
refuse to go away. The talk hasn't had a direct impact, but it is making
potential buyers of the major bond contracts a lot more reticent, says
dealer. (NK)



11:20 (Dow Jones) Here's why stocks will probably stage another retest
of recent lows, as Jeff deGraaf, technical analyst at Lehman Brothers,
sees it. First, volume expanded at the recent bottom. This can happen at
ultimate bottoms, he says, but usually only when the bottom is
capitulative, and he doesn't think it was. Next, volatility was
expanding at lows, when it usually contracts as investors start to
neglect the market and the selling and buying forces diminish. Momentum
was not decelerating at the bottom, which is usually indicative of a
"testing" phase, and sentiment surveys were not resoundingly bearish,
but moderately complacent. (TG)



11:08 (Dow Jones) The U.S. recovery may prove to be V-shaped. But has
it reached the bottom of the V yet? If it hasn't, says Mark Cliffe at
ING Barings, then expect market to become even more optimistic about
rate cuts in U.S. and Europe. (NEH)



11:01 (Dow Jones) Putnam Lovell Securities downgrades Charles Schwab
Corp. (SCH) to hold from buy, a day after Schwab reported 4Q earnings
below expectations. Analyst Richard Repetto cites stock valuation
(despite the 24% drop in the shares over the past six months), market
conditions, and difficult year-over-year comparisons. Schwab shares are
flat at $27.50. (GFC)



10:54 (Dow Jones) Feb. Nymex crude sharply higher, gaining 75 cents a
barrel to intraday high of $31.20, after contract hits buy stops at
$30.50. Resistance seen at $31.40 and $32/bbl. "Obviously, OPEC cutback
is underpinning (nearby crude)," analyst says. (MSX)



10:45 (Dow Jones) The presumed market dominance of B2B darlings Ariba
(ARBA) and Commerce One (CMRC) is waning, warns CIBC. These software
firms have focused on online procurement as the core of B2B, but over
the last six months "it has become clear that this is not the direction
the world is heading." Rather, supply chain collaboration is the brass
ring of B2B and these companies have limited capabilities there, analyst
Melissa Eisenstat warns. She downgrades Ariba and Commerce One noting
there is "substantial risk" if they are unable to adapt to these
industry changes. (MLP)



10:41 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq finds support at 2655 and is using that
level as a springboard back to near unchanged. Traders say that level is
key as it is close to the high put in on Jan. 3 (2650), the day of the
Fed rate cut. "It's a good sign to see it hold, it could be a base," one
pit trader says. (DMC)



10:38 (Dow Jones) It's been an optimistic two weeks for stocks, but
now an options sentiment indicator is showing up bearish. The CBOE's
equity put/call ratio this morning is at 0.37, with 268,282 calls traded
to 100,219 puts. That ratio is seen as a contrarian sentiment indicator
- when too many traders are bullish, then the smart move is to be
bearish. As such, that indicator is considered bullish when between 0.75
to 1, neutral from 0.40 to 0.75, and bearish when below 0.40. The
question is if it'll stay bearish through this session. (KXT)



10:32 (Dow Jones) March S&PS act soft even though the contract bounces
off lows. "We act like we can go lower," one trader says. Weakness in
March DJIA lends pressure. Merrill Lynch and Goldman buyers, while
Lehman and locals are sellers. Profit taking could be weighing on
market, he says. (DMC)



10:28 (Dow Jones) Secondary offerings have been mostly successful for
investors lately, but there's a notable exception today. Capital One
(COF) sold 6.5 million shares at $62 each through J.P. Morgan, but the
shares are now down to $60.69. (RJH)



10:22 (Dow Jones) Following Home Depot's (HD) fiscal 4Q profitwarning, Lehman Brothers analyst Alan Rifkin cut his earnings estimate
for fiscal 2002 to $1.30 a share from $1.58, reflecting his view that
sales growth will be slow in the first half of the year. His new
estimate reflects a same-store sales increase of 2.5% to 3% in fiscal
2002, down from his earlier estimate for a 3.5% same-store sales rise.
(PAP)



10:18 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq is in negative territory as the market
makes new session lows. Support seen at 2660, 2640 and 2595. Resistance
seen at 2765 and 2805, an off-floor technical trader says. (DMC)



10:14 (Dow Jones) Drop in the headline Michigan index to 93.6 was much
weaker than the consensus of 99.0. But as a result of Thursday's weak
Philly Fed survey, the market was already set up for a poor Michigan
result, so the reaction is limited. It still backs view Fed will act on
Jan 31, with the expectations index falling to 84.2 from 90.7 in Dec.,
dealers say. (NK)



10:11 (Dow Jones) Is it the market volatility or are more investors
warming up to options trading? More than 5.29 million options contracts
traded yesterday - a new daily options volume record, according to the
Options Industry Council. That is 38% higher than the year-to-date daily
average volume of 3.83 million, which in turn is higher than last year's
average daily volume of 2.8 million, as more investors look to options
to manage the risk of their stock portfolios. (KXT)



10:06 (Dow Jones)  Mr. & Mrs. America still have pricey homes, but
they evidently aren't willing to undertake major remodeling projects
anymore. DJIA component Home Depot (HD) 4Q warning about tough economy
affecting net is the other, bigger shoe dropping after Lowe's (LOW)
warning on its 4Q back in December. Interesting that a lot of these
economy-based warnings seem to posit that 2H could be better. True,
another Fed cut or two will help, but there's also risk that recession
could kick in. Some say it already has in manufacturing sector. HD off
nearly 5% early. (GC)



10:04 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq firmer, but off highs. Despite
pullback, traders say the market appears to have created a trend with
the recent firmer closes. "It's been a slow grind up, and that's a good
sign," one says. "It means we're consolidating." However, they're not
sure whether this is a short-term trend or something more substantial.
"We have to get much higher, back into the mid-3000s before we call this
more than a correction." (DMC)



9:48 (Dow Jones) EBay Inc. (EBAY) has bucked the trend of
less-than-rosy dot-com news, and its stock is soaring. The online
marketplace reported stronger-than-consensus revenue and EPS numbers of
$134M and 9c, respectively, Thursday night. Consensus was $125.5M and
7c. Analysts characterized eBay's various metrics as strong across the
board, despite the economic slowdown in the fourth quarter. Meanwhile,
the company noted that a California court had dismissed a lawsuit
against eBay over allegedly fraudulent sports memorabilia. (RS)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1j025ov




 MARKET TALK: ADC Telecom Loses Some Supporters 

1,361 words
19 January 2001
16:50
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



11:50 (Dow Jones) ADC Telecommunications (ADCT) became a Wall Street
whipping boy Friday as a number of analysts cut their ratings on the
stock after the company slashed 1Q earnings estimates in half. ABN-AMRO
analyst Ken Leon says a "'combination of management in transition and
weaker market conditions causes us to be less than supportive." At least
four other analysts also cut their ratings. "Historically, the January
quarter has been ADC's most challenging," says Josephthal & Co. analyst
Lawrence Harris, who cut ADC to hold from buy. "When carrier spending
tends to be on the low side, it exacerbates the problem." (JDB)



11:31 (Dow Jones) Early rumors of derivatives losses at a French bank
refuse to go away. The talk hasn't had a direct impact, but it is making
potential buyers of the major bond contracts a lot more reticent, says
dealer. (NK)



11:20 (Dow Jones) Here's why stocks will probably stage another retest
of recent lows, as Jeff deGraaf, technical analyst at Lehman Brothers,
sees it. First, volume expanded at the recent bottom. This can happen at
ultimate bottoms, he says, but usually only when the bottom is
capitulative, and he doesn't think it was. Next, volatility was
expanding at lows, when it usually contracts as investors start to
neglect the market and the selling and buying forces diminish. Momentum
was not decelerating at the bottom, which is usually indicative of a
"testing" phase, and sentiment surveys were not resoundingly bearish,
but moderately complacent. (TG)



11:08 (Dow Jones) The U.S. recovery may prove to be V-shaped. But has
it reached the bottom of the V yet? If it hasn't, says Mark Cliffe at
ING Barings, then expect market to become even more optimistic about
rate cuts in U.S. and Europe. (NEH)



11:01 (Dow Jones) Putnam Lovell Securities downgrades Charles Schwab
Corp. (SCH) to hold from buy, a day after Schwab reported 4Q earnings
below expectations. Analyst Richard Repetto cites stock valuation
(despite the 24% drop in the shares over the past six months), market
conditions, and difficult year-over-year comparisons. Schwab shares are
flat at $27.50. (GFC)



10:54 (Dow Jones) Feb. Nymex crude sharply higher, gaining 75 cents a
barrel to intraday high of $31.20, after contract hits buy stops at
$30.50. Resistance seen at $31.40 and $32/bbl. "Obviously, OPEC cutback
is underpinning (nearby crude)," analyst says. (MSX)



10:45 (Dow Jones) The presumed market dominance of B2B darlings Ariba
(ARBA) and Commerce One (CMRC) is waning, warns CIBC. These software
firms have focused on online procurement as the core of B2B, but over
the last six months "it has become clear that this is not the direction
the world is heading." Rather, supply chain collaboration is the brass
ring of B2B and these companies have limited capabilities there, analyst
Melissa Eisenstat warns. She downgrades Ariba and Commerce One noting
there is "substantial risk" if they are unable to adapt to these
industry changes. (MLP)



10:41 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq finds support at 2655 and is using that
level as a springboard back to near unchanged. Traders say that level is
key as it is close to the high put in on Jan. 3 (2650), the day of the
Fed rate cut. "It's a good sign to see it hold, it could be a base," one
pit trader says. (DMC)



10:38 (Dow Jones) It's been an optimistic two weeks for stocks, but
now an options sentiment indicator is showing up bearish. The CBOE's
equity put/call ratio this morning is at 0.37, with 268,282 calls traded
to 100,219 puts. That ratio is seen as a contrarian sentiment indicator
- when too many traders are bullish, then the smart move is to be
bearish. As such, that indicator is considered bullish when between 0.75
to 1, neutral from 0.40 to 0.75, and bearish when below 0.40. The
question is if it'll stay bearish through this session. (KXT)



10:32 (Dow Jones) March S&PS act soft even though the contract bounces
off lows. "We act like we can go lower," one trader says. Weakness in
March DJIA lends pressure. Merrill Lynch and Goldman buyers, while
Lehman and locals are sellers. Profit taking could be weighing on
market, he says. (DMC)



10:28 (Dow Jones) Secondary offerings have been mostly successful for
investors lately, but there's a notable exception today. Capital One
(COF) sold 6.5 million shares at $62 each through J.P. Morgan, but the
shares are now down to $60.69. (RJH)



10:22 (Dow Jones) Following Home Depot's (HD) fiscal 4Q profitwarning, Lehman Brothers analyst Alan Rifkin cut his earnings estimate
for fiscal 2002 to $1.30 a share from $1.58, reflecting his view that
sales growth will be slow in the first half of the year. His new
estimate reflects a same-store sales increase of 2.5% to 3% in fiscal
2002, down from his earlier estimate for a 3.5% same-store sales rise.
(PAP)



10:18 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq is in negative territory as the market
makes new session lows. Support seen at 2660, 2640 and 2595. Resistance
seen at 2765 and 2805, an off-floor technical trader says. (DMC)



10:14 (Dow Jones) Drop in the headline Michigan index to 93.6 was much
weaker than the consensus of 99.0. But as a result of Thursday's weak
Philly Fed survey, the market was already set up for a poor Michigan
result, so the reaction is limited. It still backs view Fed will act on
Jan 31, with the expectations index falling to 84.2 from 90.7 in Dec.,
dealers say. (NK)



10:11 (Dow Jones) Is it the market volatility or are more investors
warming up to options trading? More than 5.29 million options contracts
traded yesterday - a new daily options volume record, according to the
Options Industry Council. That is 38% higher than the year-to-date daily
average volume of 3.83 million, which in turn is higher than last year's
average daily volume of 2.8 million, as more investors look to options
to manage the risk of their stock portfolios. (KXT)



10:06 (Dow Jones)  Mr. & Mrs. America still have pricey homes, but
they evidently aren't willing to undertake major remodeling projects
anymore. DJIA component Home Depot (HD) 4Q warning about tough economy
affecting net is the other, bigger shoe dropping after Lowe's (LOW)
warning on its 4Q back in December. Interesting that a lot of these
economy-based warnings seem to posit that 2H could be better. True,
another Fed cut or two will help, but there's also risk that recession
could kick in. Some say it already has in manufacturing sector. HD off
nearly 5% early. (GC)



10:04 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq firmer, but off highs. Despite
pullback, traders say the market appears to have created a trend with
the recent firmer closes. "It's been a slow grind up, and that's a good
sign," one says. "It means we're consolidating." However, they're not
sure whether this is a short-term trend or something more substantial.
"We have to get much higher, back into the mid-3000s before we call this
more than a correction." (DMC)



9:48 (Dow Jones) EBay Inc. (EBAY) has bucked the trend of
less-than-rosy dot-com news, and its stock is soaring. The online
marketplace reported stronger-than-consensus revenue and EPS numbers of
$134M and 9c, respectively, Thursday night. Consensus was $125.5M and
7c. Analysts characterized eBay's various metrics as strong across the
board, despite the economic slowdown in the fourth quarter. Meanwhile,
the company noted that a California court had dismissed a lawsuit
against eBay over allegedly fraudulent sports memorabilia. (RS)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1j025oh




 MARKET TALK: Talk Of Derivatives Losses At French Bank 

1,258 words
19 January 2001
16:32
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



11:31 (Dow Jones) Early rumors of derivatives losses at a French bank
refuse to go away. The talk hasn't had a direct impact, but it is making
potential buyers of the major bond contracts a lot more reticent, says
dealer. (NK)



11:20 (Dow Jones) Here's why stocks will probably stage another retest
of recent lows, as Jeff deGraaf, technical analyst at Lehman Brothers,
sees it. First, volume expanded at the recent bottom. This can happen at
ultimate bottoms, he says, but usually only when the bottom is
capitulative, and he doesn't think it was. Next, volatility was
expanding at lows, when it usually contracts as investors start to
neglect the market and the selling and buying forces diminish. Momentum
was not decelerating at the bottom, which is usually indicative of a
"testing" phase, and sentiment surveys were not resoundingly bearish,
but moderately complacent. (TG)



11:08 (Dow Jones) The U.S. recovery may prove to be V-shaped. But has
it reached the bottom of the V yet? If it hasn't, says Mark Cliffe at
ING Barings, then expect market to become even more optimistic about
rate cuts in U.S. and Europe. (NEH)



11:01 (Dow Jones) Putnam Lovell Securities downgrades Charles Schwab
Corp. (SCH) to hold from buy, a day after Schwab reported 4Q earnings
below expectations. Analyst Richard Repetto cites stock valuation
(despite the 24% drop in the shares over the past six months), market
conditions, and difficult year-over-year comparisons. Schwab shares are
flat at $27.50. (GFC)



10:54 (Dow Jones) Feb. Nymex crude sharply higher, gaining 75 cents a
barrel to intraday high of $31.20, after contract hits buy stops at
$30.50. Resistance seen at $31.40 and $32/bbl. "Obviously, OPEC cutback
is underpinning (nearby crude)," analyst says. (MSX)



10:45 (Dow Jones) The presumed market dominance of B2B darlings Ariba
(ARBA) and Commerce One (CMRC) is waning, warns CIBC. These software
firms have focused on online procurement as the core of B2B, but over
the last six months "it has become clear that this is not the direction
the world is heading." Rather, supply chain collaboration is the brass
ring of B2B and these companies have limited capabilities there, analyst
Melissa Eisenstat warns. She downgrades Ariba and Commerce One noting
there is "substantial risk" if they are unable to adapt to these
industry changes. (MLP)



10:41 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq finds support at 2655 and is using that
level as a springboard back to near unchanged. Traders say that level is
key as it is close to the high put in on Jan. 3 (2650), the day of the
Fed rate cut. "It's a good sign to see it hold, it could be a base," one
pit trader says. (DMC)



10:38 (Dow Jones) It's been an optimistic two weeks for stocks, but
now an options sentiment indicator is showing up bearish. The CBOE's
equity put/call ratio this morning is at 0.37, with 268,282 calls traded
to 100,219 puts. That ratio is seen as a contrarian sentiment indicator
- when too many traders are bullish, then the smart move is to be
bearish. As such, that indicator is considered bullish when between 0.75
to 1, neutral from 0.40 to 0.75, and bearish when below 0.40. The
question is if it'll stay bearish through this session. (KXT)



10:32 (Dow Jones) March S&PS act soft even though the contract bounces
off lows. "We act like we can go lower," one trader says. Weakness in
March DJIA lends pressure. Merrill Lynch and Goldman buyers, while
Lehman and locals are sellers. Profit taking could be weighing on
market, he says. (DMC)



10:28 (Dow Jones) Secondary offerings have been mostly successful for
investors lately, but there's a notable exception today. Capital One
(COF) sold 6.5 million shares at $62 each through J.P. Morgan, but the
shares are now down to $60.69. (RJH)



10:22 (Dow Jones) Following Home Depot's (HD) fiscal 4Q profitwarning, Lehman Brothers analyst Alan Rifkin cut his earnings estimate
for fiscal 2002 to $1.30 a share from $1.58, reflecting his view that
sales growth will be slow in the first half of the year. His new
estimate reflects a same-store sales increase of 2.5% to 3% in fiscal
2002, down from his earlier estimate for a 3.5% same-store sales rise.
(PAP)



10:18 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq is in negative territory as the market
makes new session lows. Support seen at 2660, 2640 and 2595. Resistance
seen at 2765 and 2805, an off-floor technical trader says. (DMC)



10:14 (Dow Jones) Drop in the headline Michigan index to 93.6 was much
weaker than the consensus of 99.0. But as a result of Thursday's weak
Philly Fed survey, the market was already set up for a poor Michigan
result, so the reaction is limited. It still backs view Fed will act on
Jan 31, with the expectations index falling to 84.2 from 90.7 in Dec.,
dealers say. (NK)



10:11 (Dow Jones) Is it the market volatility or are more investors
warming up to options trading? More than 5.29 million options contracts
traded yesterday - a new daily options volume record, according to the
Options Industry Council. That is 38% higher than the year-to-date daily
average volume of 3.83 million, which in turn is higher than last year's
average daily volume of 2.8 million, as more investors look to options
to manage the risk of their stock portfolios. (KXT)



10:06 (Dow Jones)  Mr. & Mrs. America still have pricey homes, but
they evidently aren't willing to undertake major remodeling projects
anymore. DJIA component Home Depot (HD) 4Q warning about tough economy
affecting net is the other, bigger shoe dropping after Lowe's (LOW)
warning on its 4Q back in December. Interesting that a lot of these
economy-based warnings seem to posit that 2H could be better. True,
another Fed cut or two will help, but there's also risk that recession
could kick in. Some say it already has in manufacturing sector. HD off
nearly 5% early. (GC)



10:04 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq firmer, but off highs. Despite
pullback, traders say the market appears to have created a trend with
the recent firmer closes. "It's been a slow grind up, and that's a good
sign," one says. "It means we're consolidating." However, they're not
sure whether this is a short-term trend or something more substantial.
"We have to get much higher, back into the mid-3000s before we call this
more than a correction." (DMC)



9:48 (Dow Jones) EBay Inc. (EBAY) has bucked the trend of
less-than-rosy dot-com news, and its stock is soaring. The online
marketplace reported stronger-than-consensus revenue and EPS numbers of
$134M and 9c, respectively, Thursday night. Consensus was $125.5M and
7c. Analysts characterized eBay's various metrics as strong across the
board, despite the economic slowdown in the fourth quarter. Meanwhile,
the company noted that a California court had dismissed a lawsuit
against eBay over allegedly fraudulent sports memorabilia. (RS)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1j025nw




 MARKET TALK: One Vote For Retest Of Market's Low 

1,216 words
19 January 2001
16:22
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



11:20 (Dow Jones) Here's why stocks will probably stage another retest
of recent lows, as Jeff deGraaf, technical analyst at Lehman Brothers,
sees it. First, volume expanded at the recent bottom. This can happen at
ultimate bottoms, he says, but usually only when the bottom is
capitulative, and he doesn't think it was. Next, volatility was
expanding at lows, when it usually contracts as investors start to
neglect the market and the selling and buying forces diminish. Momentum
was not decelerating at the bottom, which is usually indicative of a
"testing" phase, and sentiment surveys were not resoundingly bearish,
but moderately complacent. (TG)



11:08 (Dow Jones) The U.S. recovery may prove to be V-shaped. But has
it reached the bottom of the V yet? If it hasn't, says Mark Cliffe at
ING Barings, then expect market to become even more optimistic about
rate cuts in U.S. and Europe. (NEH)



11:01 (Dow Jones) Putnam Lovell Securities downgrades Charles Schwab
Corp. (SCH) to hold from buy, a day after Schwab reported 4Q earnings
below expectations. Analyst Richard Repetto cites stock valuation
(despite the 24% drop in the shares over the past six months), market
conditions, and difficult year-over-year comparisons. Schwab shares are
flat at $27.50. (GFC)



10:54 (Dow Jones) Feb. Nymex crude sharply higher, gaining 75 cents a
barrel to intraday high of $31.20, after contract hits buy stops at
$30.50. Resistance seen at $31.40 and $32/bbl. "Obviously, OPEC cutback
is underpinning (nearby crude)," analyst says. (MSX)



10:45 (Dow Jones) The presumed market dominance of B2B darlings Ariba
(ARBA) and Commerce One (CMRC) is waning, warns CIBC. These software
firms have focused on online procurement as the core of B2B, but over
the last six months "it has become clear that this is not the direction
the world is heading." Rather, supply chain collaboration is the brass
ring of B2B and these companies have limited capabilities there, analyst
Melissa Eisenstat warns. She downgrades Ariba and Commerce One noting
there is "substantial risk" if they are unable to adapt to these
industry changes. (MLP)



10:41 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq finds support at 2655 and is using that
level as a springboard back to near unchanged. Traders say that level is
key as it is close to the high put in on Jan. 3 (2650), the day of the
Fed rate cut. "It's a good sign to see it hold, it could be a base," one
pit trader says. (DMC)



10:38 (Dow Jones) It's been an optimistic two weeks for stocks, but
now an options sentiment indicator is showing up bearish. The CBOE's
equity put/call ratio this morning is at 0.37, with 268,282 calls traded
to 100,219 puts. That ratio is seen as a contrarian sentiment indicator
- when too many traders are bullish, then the smart move is to be
bearish. As such, that indicator is considered bullish when between 0.75
to 1, neutral from 0.40 to 0.75, and bearish when below 0.40. The
question is if it'll stay bearish through this session. (KXT)



10:32 (Dow Jones) March S&PS act soft even though the contract bounces
off lows. "We act like we can go lower," one trader says. Weakness in
March DJIA lends pressure. Merrill Lynch and Goldman buyers, while
Lehman and locals are sellers. Profit taking could be weighing on
market, he says. (DMC)



10:28 (Dow Jones) Secondary offerings have been mostly successful for
investors lately, but there's a notable exception today. Capital One
(COF) sold 6.5 million shares at $62 each through J.P. Morgan, but the
shares are now down to $60.69. (RJH)



10:22 (Dow Jones) Following Home Depot's (HD) fiscal 4Q profitwarning, Lehman Brothers analyst Alan Rifkin cut his earnings estimate
for fiscal 2002 to $1.30 a share from $1.58, reflecting his view that
sales growth will be slow in the first half of the year. His new
estimate reflects a same-store sales increase of 2.5% to 3% in fiscal
2002, down from his earlier estimate for a 3.5% same-store sales rise.
(PAP)



10:18 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq is in negative territory as the market
makes new session lows. Support seen at 2660, 2640 and 2595. Resistance
seen at 2765 and 2805, an off-floor technical trader says. (DMC)



10:14 (Dow Jones) Drop in the headline Michigan index to 93.6 was much
weaker than the consensus of 99.0. But as a result of Thursday's weak
Philly Fed survey, the market was already set up for a poor Michigan
result, so the reaction is limited. It still backs view Fed will act on
Jan 31, with the expectations index falling to 84.2 from 90.7 in Dec.,
dealers say. (NK)



10:11 (Dow Jones) Is it the market volatility or are more investors
warming up to options trading? More than 5.29 million options contracts
traded yesterday - a new daily options volume record, according to the
Options Industry Council. That is 38% higher than the year-to-date daily
average volume of 3.83 million, which in turn is higher than last year's
average daily volume of 2.8 million, as more investors look to options
to manage the risk of their stock portfolios. (KXT)



10:06 (Dow Jones)  Mr. & Mrs. America still have pricey homes, but
they evidently aren't willing to undertake major remodeling projects
anymore. DJIA component Home Depot (HD) 4Q warning about tough economy
affecting net is the other, bigger shoe dropping after Lowe's (LOW)
warning on its 4Q back in December. Interesting that a lot of these
economy-based warnings seem to posit that 2H could be better. True,
another Fed cut or two will help, but there's also risk that recession
could kick in. Some say it already has in manufacturing sector. HD off
nearly 5% early. (GC)



10:04 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq firmer, but off highs. Despite
pullback, traders say the market appears to have created a trend with
the recent firmer closes. "It's been a slow grind up, and that's a good
sign," one says. "It means we're consolidating." However, they're not
sure whether this is a short-term trend or something more substantial.
"We have to get much higher, back into the mid-3000s before we call this
more than a correction." (DMC)



9:48 (Dow Jones) EBay Inc. (EBAY) has bucked the trend of
less-than-rosy dot-com news, and its stock is soaring. The online
marketplace reported stronger-than-consensus revenue and EPS numbers of
$134M and 9c, respectively, Thursday night. Consensus was $125.5M and
7c. Analysts characterized eBay's various metrics as strong across the
board, despite the economic slowdown in the fourth quarter. Meanwhile,
the company noted that a California court had dismissed a lawsuit
against eBay over allegedly fraudulent sports memorabilia. (RS)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1j025n9




 MARKET TALK: U.S. Economic Slowdown May Not 'V' Over Yet 

1,111 words
19 January 2001
16:09
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



11:08 (Dow Jones) The U.S. recovery may prove to be V-shaped. But has
it reached the bottom of the V yet? If it hasn't, says Mark Cliffe at
ING Barings, then expect market to become even more optimistic about
rate cuts in U.S. and Europe. (NEH)



11:01 (Dow Jones) Putnam Lovell Securities downgrades Charles Schwab
Corp. (SCH) to hold from buy, a day after Schwab reported 4Q earnings
below expectations. Analyst Richard Repetto cites stock valuation
(despite the 24% drop in the shares over the past six months), market
conditions, and difficult year-over-year comparisons. Schwab shares are
flat at $27.50. (GFC)



10:54 (Dow Jones) Feb. Nymex crude sharply higher, gaining 75 cents a
barrel to intraday high of $31.20, after contract hits buy stops at
$30.50. Resistance seen at $31.40 and $32/bbl. "Obviously, OPEC cutback
is underpinning (nearby crude)," analyst says. (MSX)



10:45 (Dow Jones) The presumed market dominance of B2B darlings Ariba
(ARBA) and Commerce One (CMRC) is waning, warns CIBC. These software
firms have focused on online procurement as the core of B2B, but over
the last six months "it has become clear that this is not the direction
the world is heading." Rather, supply chain collaboration is the brass
ring of B2B and these companies have limited capabilities there, analyst
Melissa Eisenstat warns. She downgrades Ariba and Commerce One noting
there is "substantial risk" if they are unable to adapt to these
industry changes. (MLP)



10:41 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq finds support at 2655 and is using that
level as a springboard back to near unchanged. Traders say that level is
key as it is close to the high put in on Jan. 3 (2650), the day of the
Fed rate cut. "It's a good sign to see it hold, it could be a base," one
pit trader says. (DMC)



10:38 (Dow Jones) It's been an optimistic two weeks for stocks, but
now an options sentiment indicator is showing up bearish. The CBOE's
equity put/call ratio this morning is at 0.37, with 268,282 calls traded
to 100,219 puts. That ratio is seen as a contrarian sentiment indicator
- when too many traders are bullish, then the smart move is to be
bearish. As such, that indicator is considered bullish when between 0.75
to 1, neutral from 0.40 to 0.75, and bearish when below 0.40. The
question is if it'll stay bearish through this session. (KXT)



10:32 (Dow Jones) March S&PS act soft even though the contract bounces
off lows. "We act like we can go lower," one trader says. Weakness in
March DJIA lends pressure. Merrill Lynch and Goldman buyers, while
Lehman and locals are sellers. Profit taking could be weighing on
market, he says. (DMC)



10:28 (Dow Jones) Secondary offerings have been mostly successful for
investors lately, but there's a notable exception today. Capital One
(COF) sold 6.5 million shares at $62 each through J.P. Morgan, but the
shares are now down to $60.69. (RJH)



10:22 (Dow Jones) Following Home Depot's (HD) fiscal 4Q profitwarning, Lehman Brothers analyst Alan Rifkin cut his earnings estimate
for fiscal 2002 to $1.30 a share from $1.58, reflecting his view that
sales growth will be slow in the first half of the year. His new
estimate reflects a same-store sales increase of 2.5% to 3% in fiscal
2002, down from his earlier estimate for a 3.5% same-store sales rise.
(PAP)



10:18 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq is in negative territory as the market
makes new session lows. Support seen at 2660, 2640 and 2595. Resistance
seen at 2765 and 2805, an off-floor technical trader says. (DMC)



10:14 (Dow Jones) Drop in the headline Michigan index to 93.6 was much
weaker than the consensus of 99.0. But as a result of Thursday's weak
Philly Fed survey, the market was already set up for a poor Michigan
result, so the reaction is limited. It still backs view Fed will act on
Jan 31, with the expectations index falling to 84.2 from 90.7 in Dec.,
dealers say. (NK)



10:11 (Dow Jones) Is it the market volatility or are more investors
warming up to options trading? More than 5.29 million options contracts
traded yesterday - a new daily options volume record, according to the
Options Industry Council. That is 38% higher than the year-to-date daily
average volume of 3.83 million, which in turn is higher than last year's
average daily volume of 2.8 million, as more investors look to options
to manage the risk of their stock portfolios. (KXT)



10:06 (Dow Jones)  Mr. & Mrs. America still have pricey homes, but
they evidently aren't willing to undertake major remodeling projects
anymore. DJIA component Home Depot (HD) 4Q warning about tough economy
affecting net is the other, bigger shoe dropping after Lowe's (LOW)
warning on its 4Q back in December. Interesting that a lot of these
economy-based warnings seem to posit that 2H could be better. True,
another Fed cut or two will help, but there's also risk that recession
could kick in. Some say it already has in manufacturing sector. HD off
nearly 5% early. (GC)



10:04 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq firmer, but off highs. Despite
pullback, traders say the market appears to have created a trend with
the recent firmer closes. "It's been a slow grind up, and that's a good
sign," one says. "It means we're consolidating." However, they're not
sure whether this is a short-term trend or something more substantial.
"We have to get much higher, back into the mid-3000s before we call this
more than a correction." (DMC)



9:48 (Dow Jones) EBay Inc. (EBAY) has bucked the trend of
less-than-rosy dot-com news, and its stock is soaring. The online
marketplace reported stronger-than-consensus revenue and EPS numbers of
$134M and 9c, respectively, Thursday night. Consensus was $125.5M and
7c. Analysts characterized eBay's various metrics as strong across the
board, despite the economic slowdown in the fourth quarter. Meanwhile,
the company noted that a California court had dismissed a lawsuit
against eBay over allegedly fraudulent sports memorabilia. (RS)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1j025m7




 MARKET TALK: Price, Market, Comps Lead To Schwab Downgrade 

1,058 words
19 January 2001
16:01
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



11:01 (Dow Jones) Putnam Lovell Securities downgrades Charles Schwab
Corp. (SCH) to hold from buy, a day after Schwab reported 4Q earnings
below expectations. Analyst Richard Repetto cites stock valuation
(despite the 24% drop in the shares over the past six months), market
conditions, and difficult year-over-year comparisons. Schwab shares are
flat at $27.50. (GFC)



10:54 (Dow Jones) Feb. Nymex crude sharply higher, gaining 75 cents a
barrel to intraday high of $31.20, after contract hits buy stops at
$30.50. Resistance seen at $31.40 and $32/bbl. "Obviously, OPEC cutback
is underpinning (nearby crude)," analyst says. (MSX)



10:45 (Dow Jones) The presumed market dominance of B2B darlings Ariba
(ARBA) and Commerce One (CMRC) is waning, warns CIBC. These software
firms have focused on online procurement as the core of B2B, but over
the last six months "it has become clear that this is not the direction
the world is heading." Rather, supply chain collaboration is the brass
ring of B2B and these companies have limited capabilities there, analyst
Melissa Eisenstat warns. She downgrades Ariba and Commerce One noting
there is "substantial risk" if they are unable to adapt to these
industry changes. (MLP)



10:41 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq finds support at 2655 and is using that
level as a springboard back to near unchanged. Traders say that level is
key as it is close to the high put in on Jan. 3 (2650), the day of the
Fed rate cut. "It's a good sign to see it hold, it could be a base," one
pit trader says. (DMC)



10:38 (Dow Jones) It's been an optimistic two weeks for stocks, but
now an options sentiment indicator is showing up bearish. The CBOE's
equity put/call ratio this morning is at 0.37, with 268,282 calls traded
to 100,219 puts. That ratio is seen as a contrarian sentiment indicator
- when too many traders are bullish, then the smart move is to be
bearish. As such, that indicator is considered bullish when between 0.75
to 1, neutral from 0.40 to 0.75, and bearish when below 0.40. The
question is if it'll stay bearish through this session. (KXT)



10:32 (Dow Jones) March S&PS act soft even though the contract bounces
off lows. "We act like we can go lower," one trader says. Weakness in
March DJIA lends pressure. Merrill Lynch and Goldman buyers, while
Lehman and locals are sellers. Profit taking could be weighing on
market, he says. (DMC)



10:28 (Dow Jones) Secondary offerings have been mostly successful for
investors lately, but there's a notable exception today. Capital One
(COF) sold 6.5 million shares at $62 each through J.P. Morgan, but the
shares are now down to $60.69. (RJH)



10:22 (Dow Jones) Following Home Depot's (HD) fiscal 4Q profitwarning, Lehman Brothers analyst Alan Rifkin cut his earnings estimate
for fiscal 2002 to $1.30 a share from $1.58, reflecting his view that
sales growth will be slow in the first half of the year. His new
estimate reflects a same-store sales increase of 2.5% to 3% in fiscal
2002, down from his earlier estimate for a 3.5% same-store sales rise.
(PAP)



10:18 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq is in negative territory as the market
makes new session lows. Support seen at 2660, 2640 and 2595. Resistance
seen at 2765 and 2805, an off-floor technical trader says. (DMC)



10:14 (Dow Jones) Drop in the headline Michigan index to 93.6 was much
weaker than the consensus of 99.0. But as a result of Thursday's weak
Philly Fed survey, the market was already set up for a poor Michigan
result, so the reaction is limited. It still backs view Fed will act on
Jan 31, with the expectations index falling to 84.2 from 90.7 in Dec.,
dealers say. (NK)



10:11 (Dow Jones) Is it the market volatility or are more investors
warming up to options trading? More than 5.29 million options contracts
traded yesterday - a new daily options volume record, according to the
Options Industry Council. That is 38% higher than the year-to-date daily
average volume of 3.83 million, which in turn is higher than last year's
average daily volume of 2.8 million, as more investors look to options
to manage the risk of their stock portfolios. (KXT)



10:06 (Dow Jones)  Mr. & Mrs. America still have pricey homes, but
they evidently aren't willing to undertake major remodeling projects
anymore. DJIA component Home Depot (HD) 4Q warning about tough economy
affecting net is the other, bigger shoe dropping after Lowe's (LOW)
warning on its 4Q back in December. Interesting that a lot of these
economy-based warnings seem to posit that 2H could be better. True,
another Fed cut or two will help, but there's also risk that recession
could kick in. Some say it already has in manufacturing sector. HD off
nearly 5% early. (GC)



10:04 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq firmer, but off highs. Despite
pullback, traders say the market appears to have created a trend with
the recent firmer closes. "It's been a slow grind up, and that's a good
sign," one says. "It means we're consolidating." However, they're not
sure whether this is a short-term trend or something more substantial.
"We have to get much higher, back into the mid-3000s before we call this
more than a correction." (DMC)



9:48 (Dow Jones) EBay Inc. (EBAY) has bucked the trend of
less-than-rosy dot-com news, and its stock is soaring. The online
marketplace reported stronger-than-consensus revenue and EPS numbers of
$134M and 9c, respectively, Thursday night. Consensus was $125.5M and
7c. Analysts characterized eBay's various metrics as strong across the
board, despite the economic slowdown in the fourth quarter. Meanwhile,
the company noted that a California court had dismissed a lawsuit
against eBay over allegedly fraudulent sports memorabilia. (RS)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1j025ld




 MARKET TALK: Big Move Up In Feb. Nymex Crude 

999 words
19 January 2001
15:54
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:54 (Dow Jones) Feb. Nymex crude sharply higher, gaining 75 cents a
barrel to intraday high of $31.20, after contract hits buy stops at
$30.50. Resistance seen at $31.40 and $32/bbl. "Obviously, OPEC cutback
is underpinning (nearby crude)," analyst says. (MSX)



10:45 (Dow Jones) The presumed market dominance of B2B darlings Ariba
(ARBA) and Commerce One (CMRC) is waning, warns CIBC. These software
firms have focused on online procurement as the core of B2B, but over
the last six months "it has become clear that this is not the direction
the world is heading." Rather, supply chain collaboration is the brass
ring of B2B and these companies have limited capabilities there, analyst
Melissa Eisenstat warns. She downgrades Ariba and Commerce One noting
there is "substantial risk" if they are unable to adapt to these
industry changes. (MLP)



10:41 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq finds support at 2655 and is using that
level as a springboard back to near unchanged. Traders say that level is
key as it is close to the high put in on Jan. 3 (2650), the day of the
Fed rate cut. "It's a good sign to see it hold, it could be a base," one
pit trader says. (DMC)



10:38 (Dow Jones) It's been an optimistic two weeks for stocks, but
now an options sentiment indicator is showing up bearish. The CBOE's
equity put/call ratio this morning is at 0.37, with 268,282 calls traded
to 100,219 puts. That ratio is seen as a contrarian sentiment indicator
- when too many traders are bullish, then the smart move is to be
bearish. As such, that indicator is considered bullish when between 0.75
to 1, neutral from 0.40 to 0.75, and bearish when below 0.40. The
question is if it'll stay bearish through this session. (KXT)



10:32 (Dow Jones) March S&PS act soft even though the contract bounces
off lows. "We act like we can go lower," one trader says. Weakness in
March DJIA lends pressure. Merrill Lynch and Goldman buyers, while
Lehman and locals are sellers. Profit taking could be weighing on
market, he says. (DMC)



10:28 (Dow Jones) Secondary offerings have been mostly successful for
investors lately, but there's a notable exception today. Capital One
(COF) sold 6.5 million shares at $62 each through J.P. Morgan, but the
shares are now down to $60.69. (RJH)



10:22 (Dow Jones) Following Home Depot's (HD) fiscal 4Q profitwarning, Lehman Brothers analyst Alan Rifkin cut his earnings estimate
for fiscal 2002 to $1.30 a share from $1.58, reflecting his view that
sales growth will be slow in the first half of the year. His new
estimate reflects a same-store sales increase of 2.5% to 3% in fiscal
2002, down from his earlier estimate for a 3.5% same-store sales rise.
(PAP)



10:18 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq is in negative territory as the market
makes new session lows. Support seen at 2660, 2640 and 2595. Resistance
seen at 2765 and 2805, an off-floor technical trader says. (DMC)



10:14 (Dow Jones) Drop in the headline Michigan index to 93.6 was much
weaker than the consensus of 99.0. But as a result of Thursday's weak
Philly Fed survey, the market was already set up for a poor Michigan
result, so the reaction is limited. It still backs view Fed will act on
Jan 31, with the expectations index falling to 84.2 from 90.7 in Dec.,
dealers say. (NK)



10:11 (Dow Jones) Is it the market volatility or are more investors
warming up to options trading? More than 5.29 million options contracts
traded yesterday - a new daily options volume record, according to the
Options Industry Council. That is 38% higher than the year-to-date daily
average volume of 3.83 million, which in turn is higher than last year's
average daily volume of 2.8 million, as more investors look to options
to manage the risk of their stock portfolios. (KXT)



10:06 (Dow Jones)  Mr. & Mrs. America still have pricey homes, but
they evidently aren't willing to undertake major remodeling projects
anymore. DJIA component Home Depot (HD) 4Q warning about tough economy
affecting net is the other, bigger shoe dropping after Lowe's (LOW)
warning on its 4Q back in December. Interesting that a lot of these
economy-based warnings seem to posit that 2H could be better. True,
another Fed cut or two will help, but there's also risk that recession
could kick in. Some say it already has in manufacturing sector. HD off
nearly 5% early. (GC)



10:04 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq firmer, but off highs. Despite
pullback, traders say the market appears to have created a trend with
the recent firmer closes. "It's been a slow grind up, and that's a good
sign," one says. "It means we're consolidating." However, they're not
sure whether this is a short-term trend or something more substantial.
"We have to get much higher, back into the mid-3000s before we call this
more than a correction." (DMC)



9:48 (Dow Jones) EBay Inc. (EBAY) has bucked the trend of
less-than-rosy dot-com news, and its stock is soaring. The online
marketplace reported stronger-than-consensus revenue and EPS numbers of
$134M and 9c, respectively, Thursday night. Consensus was $125.5M and
7c. Analysts characterized eBay's various metrics as strong across the
board, despite the economic slowdown in the fourth quarter. Meanwhile,
the company noted that a California court had dismissed a lawsuit
against eBay over allegedly fraudulent sports memorabilia. (RS)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx1j025kl


 National International 
 NATION BRIEFING 

281 words
18 January 2001
The Florida Times Union
XFTU
CITY
A-10
English
 (Copyright 2001) 

 NEW MEXICO GOVERNOR HOSPITALIZED AFTER FALL ON ICE 

 SANTA FE, N.M. -- New Mexico Gov. Gary Johnson fell on ice yesterday and suffered compression fractures in his upper spine but will not require surgery or have permanent effects, his doctor said. 

 Johnson, 48, could be released from St. Vincent Hospital by tomorrow, depending on his levels of mobility and pain, said neurosurgeon Erich Marshand, who treated the governor. 

 Johnson was in good condition and was joking with the hospital staff, said his spokeswoman, Diane Kinderwater. 

 Johnson canceled plans to attend Saturday's inauguration of George W. Bush.  STUDENT DIES AFTER SHOOTING AT BALTIMORE HIGH SCHOOL 

 BALTIMORE -- A student was killed after being shot three times outside a city high school yesterday in what police said was a premeditated attack. 

 Two students from another school were detained for questioning shortly after the 8:45 a.m. shooting on the grounds of Lake Clifton- Eastern High School, police said. No charges had been filed by last night. 

 Juan Matthews, 17, was shot with a small-caliber pistol while standing near a flagpole in front of the school's main entrance, police commissioner Edward Norris said.  ALSO 

 Be warned: "Shin pads cannot protect any part of the body they do not cover." That label on a pair of shin guards beat out nearly 100 competitors yesterday to win the Michigan Lawsuit Abuse Watch's Wacky Warning Labels contest. M-LAW, a non-profit group formed in 1997, seeks to call attention to the effects of product-liability lawsuits. The shin pad label beat out a label affixed to a toilet inside a public restroom: "Recycled flush water unsafe for drinking." 

Document xftu000020010713dx1i0035t




 Terra Lycos Spain Division Takes Out Nonpayment Insurance 

202 words
18 January 2001
11:16
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 MADRID -(Dow Jones)- Spanish-U.S. Internet company Terra Lycos SA (TRLY) confirmed Thursday that its Spanish division, Terra Networks (E.TRR), has taken out an insurance policy with Credito y Caucion to protect the company against missed payments by clients in 2001. 

 Last year, about 35% of Terra Networks' clients in Spain were Internet businesses. 

 The policy is an attempt by Terra Lycos to ensure it doesn't miss 2001 revenue projections, which would disappoint investors. Terra Lycos needs to reach $900 million in revenue by the fourth quarter of 2001 to meet its projection. 

 Yet the Internet sector has been fraught with profit warnings, most recently a revenue and earnings warning for 2001 from Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO). 

 One analyst said the insurance will safeguard only a fraction of the company's total revenue for 2001, as roughly 65% of Terra Lycos' income is derived from its U.S. operations through the former Lycos. 

 Spain's Terra Networks bought Lycos for $12.5 billion and merged the two companies Oct. 27. Terra Lycos has operations in 41 countries. 

 -By Eric Bovim, Dow Jones Newswires, 34-91-395-8123; eric.bovim@dowjones.com 

Document dji0000020010711dx1i009nn




Portland of Years Past
LIVING    PORTLAND ZONER
PORTLAND OF YEARS PAST 25 YEARS AGO: 1976 ABOUT 300 PERSONS -- ALL 

Compiled by JUNE M. BOONE - for The Oregonian, from the pages of The  Oregonian 
1,090 words
18 January 2001
The Oregonian
POR
English
© 2001 Oregonian Publishing Company.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.  All rights reserved.  

Portland of Years Past, a weekly feature of the Living section, offers a snapshot of a city ever in transition. Selections are drawn from the pages of The Oregonian. 

25 YEARS AGO: 1976 

About 300 persons -- all fat or feeling that way -- flocked to the Sheraton Portland Hotel Wednesday to try and get skinny through hypnosis. 

And for a sizable number of them, the hypnosis seemed to work, although only time will tell whether their excess pounds melt away. 

The group hypnosis was part of a two-hour program on weight loss through the hypnosis presented by Michael Jackson, a slender young man with a talent for putting people under. 

Jackson told listeners that his program, aided by a tape recording which many purchased for $19.95, would cause them to lose weight by programming the subconscious mind to dislike fattening food, such as bread, potatoes and desserts. 

* The editor and managing editor of the Portland State University Vanguard, the student newspaper, face possible dismissal next week for refusing to run CIA and military recruitment advertisements. 

Pat Bennett, a student member of the Publications Board, filed a complaint with the board asking that the two editors, Kathleen Hawkins and Ray Worden, be fired. 

* A mandatory vehicle emissions testing program in the Portland area may need a tune-up by spring and perhaps a major overhaul by 1977 if objections to the program continue. 

The state Department of Environmental Quality, which administers the inspections, expects an onslaught of more than 180,000 vehicles in January, February and March at seven stations where, at peak hours, vehicles form long lines. 

About 35 percent of them fail the emissions test, and DEQ officials face a problem of convincing skeptical motorists that the environmental cost they must pay to register their cars is really worth it. 

The program, as conceived by the 1975 Oregon Legislature, provides few exemptions and, generally, all owners of post-1942 vehicles weighing less than 8,400 pounds must pass the test or forfeit their rights to register the cars. 

50 YEARS AGO: 1951 

It will cost more money to play on Portland's city-owned golf courses this summer, Commissioner J. E. Bennett and Park superintendent Harry B. Buckley jointly announced Wednesday. 

Commissioner Bennett, warning that the slender golf profit picture has the city just about "sand-trapped," said he will bring in an ordinance raising green fees effective March 1 on Eastmoreland, Rose City and West Hills golf courses. 

Under the proposed new schedule there will be a ten-cent increase on the 9-hole green fee for both week days and Saturdays and Sundays. The new price will be 60 cents, although junior tickets of 25 cents will not be affected. 

The all-day $1.25 ticket will be thrown out completely, Bennett stated. 

* Connection of the federal power system in the Columbia basin with California's central valley project by a 140-mile-high voltage transmission line was ordered Wednesday by the secretary of interior. 

Dr. Paul J. Raver, Bonneville administrator, said the proposed tie between the two great electrical systems would enable both to make large power savings. 

The tie would result in an interconnecting grid system which would run from the Canadian border to Los Angeles. 

* Complaints by tenants to the Oregon Apartment House association about rent increases indicate that charges of single-family dwellings have jumped far more than on apartments since the decontrol order of December 29, association members were told at their January luncheon Wednesday at the Multnomah hotel. 

E.L. Wilson, chairman of the groups' decontrol committee, stated that complaints on 15 dwellings reported rent boosts averaging about 42 percent, or a dollar increase of about $15 a month. 

* Commissioner J.E. (Jake) Bennett, who started a small-scale "moral war" this week when he ordered a cigaret machine out of city hall, Tuesday took the city out of the "pool hall business." 

He dispatched orders to the city park bureau to discontinue plans calling for the use of two pool tables at Eliot school, scheduled to be opened February 2 as a community center. "We're not getting into the pool hall business," Bennett asserted. "They can call it recreation if they want to but it will just teach kids how to play pool." 

100 YEARS AGO: 1901 

Members of the Twenty-seventh United States volunteers are now straggling homeward from Manila by way of Portland, and little squads are seen every day on the streets. Most of the boys are thin and sallow in appearance, and can be easily distinguished from the soldiers quartered at Vancouver. Dysentery has afflicted them all with more or less severity, and they feel very grateful on reaching Portland, as it begins to seem like home. 

* Rev. J.J. Dalton, D.D., and the official members of the First Cumberland Presbyterian Church, corner of East Twelfth and East Taylor streets, decided yesterday that they would proceed with the arrangements for a Lincoln memorial service, to take place in the auditorium of that church on the evening of February 12, the anniversary of the birthday of the great commoner. This church has one of the largest and most beautiful auditoriums on the East Side, and it will accommodate about 800 people. 

* Tonight a prominent feature of the weekly concert at Whale's will be the gold and silver medal contest, for which about 20 young musicians will have entered their names. A magnificent gold medal will be given to the best player between the ages of 12 and 16, and a handsome silver medal between the ages of 6 to 12 years. Many prominent teachers have entered their pupils, and great interest is manifested in the result. 

* The Cone Bros. Sawmill, on the river bank, about a mile above St. Johns, which is to have a capacity of 50,000 feet per day, is rapidly approaching completion. The machinery is being put in and the mill will be ready to start up by the first of February or soon after. The situation, which looks rather unpromising to a novice, will be a very favorable one for the lumber business when the railroad has been constructed from Albina to St. Johns, when there will be every facility for shipping by rail or by water. -- June Boone  

Caption: Photo by The Oregonian/1906 

Document por0000020010712dx1i001oc




 US STKS RALLY AS EARNINGS BETTER THAN FEARED - IBM BOOSTS TECHS. 

396 words
18 January 2001
21:22
Market News International
MARNEW
English
(c) 2001. Market News International, Inc.

 NEW YORK (MktNews) - U.S. share prices rose sharply Thursday supported by positive results in the opening act of the earnings season, specifically strong earnings and revenues from IBM. 

 The Nasdaq composite rose 77.17, or 2.8 percent, to 2759.95, dimming the threat of 2,000 that had loomed before the Federal Reserve's surprise rate cut of Jan. 3. The Dow Industrials rose 1 percent, the S&P 500 1.4 percent, and the Wilshire 5000 1.1 percent. 

 IBM edged out profit estimates late Wednesday and, unlike prior quarters, made its sales goal for 6 percent growth. Analysts welcomed the results and said they bode well for the technology sector in the quarters to come. IBM gained 12 to 108 11/16 [IBM]. 

 Rival computer makers rose likewise, with Apple gaining 1 15/16 to 18 3/4 [AAPL] despite posting a wider-than-expected loss. IBM software supplier Computer Associates rose 5 3/8 to 34 5/16 [CA]. 

 Dealers and analysts are noting a positive turn in sentiment, with bad news overlooked and good news accentuated - a reversal from the market's long funk. Advanced Micro Devices rose 3 7/8 to 22 3/8 [AMD] despite missing projections, offering instead a positive sales outlook. 

 Biogen rose 3 to 59 [BGEN] after beating estimates, while Analog Devices gained 2 to 59 5/8 [ADI] despite issuing a profit warning. But Caterpillar was a loser, falling 2 11/16 to 41 15/16 [CAT] after missing estimates and issuing a grim outlook stained with overcapacity and narrowing margins. 

 Microsoft and Sun Microsystems will both report after the close Thursday, expected to show profits of 47 cents and 16 cents per share, respectively. 

 Hopes for further interest rate cuts are the backbone of the market's new sentiment. Wednesday's benign consumer price report has clearly tilted expectations for a second 50 basis point cut at the Federal Reserve's month-end policy meeting. 

 An extraordinarily weak Philadelphia Federal Reserve manufacturing report Thursday confirmed a host of other indicators that the economys leading sector is in a tailspin, including the latest industrial production report, the National Association of Purchasing Management report, and manufacturing payroll data in the employment report. 

 ***MARKET NEWS INTERNATIONAL NEW YORK NEWSROOM 212 509 9270*** [TOPICS: MNUEQ$]. 

Document marnew0020010713dx1i0067a




 BRIDGE UPDATE-COMPANY NEWS - Ford Motor Q4 net meets... - Part 2. 

559 words
18 January 2001
12:59
FWN Select
FWS
English
(c) 2001

 Washington, Jan 18, 2001 (FWN Select via COMTEX) - Apple Computer Inc. (AAPL) said that it lost $195 million, or 58 cents a share, in its fourth quarter, in line with its December warning that it would post its first quarterly loss since Steve Jobs returned as chief executive in 1997. A year ago, the personal computer-maker posted a profit of $183 million, or 51 cents a share. Analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial had predicted a loss of 65 cents in the quarter. ( Story .7868 ) 

 Italy's Seat hurt by protracted battle to take over TMC 

 Milan-Jan. 18-Shares in Seat Pagine Gialle SpA (IT;SPG) fell sharply in early trade on the Milan stock market after Italy's Communications Authority announced late Wednesday it had rejected plans by the yellow pages publisher to take over TV network Telemontecarlo (TMC). Analysts, however, feel that Seat will ultimately succeed in acquiring TMC buo they add that a long protracted legal battle could weigh negatively on the stock. ( Story .13525 ) 

 Switzerland's Sulzer 2000 sales up 7%, better 2001 seen 

 Zurich-Jan. 18-Swiss industrial and medical technology group Sulzer (CH;SU) said it posted consolidated order intakes, or sales, of 5.775 billion Swiss francs ($3.49 billion) in 2000, up 7% from 1999. Its Sulzer Medica (CH;SME) unit's sales rose 14% to 1.347 billion euros. The results were at the higher end of analyst and market expectations. ( Story .11472 ) 

 CSFB may lay off up to 10% of its investment bankers, says report 

 New York-Jan. 18-Credit Suisse Group's (CH;CSG) Credit Suisse First Boston unit is likely to lay off as many as 280 investment bankers, or 10% of its investment-banking workforce, the Wall Street Journal's interactive edition reported. The job cuts could also affect the firm's high-flying technology group led by Frank Quattrone, the report added, quoting people close to the firm. ( Story .11830 ) 

 Canada's Barrick, AngloGold said to bid for S. Africa's Gold Fields 

 Johannesburg-Jan. 18-Speculation is mounting that Canadian gold miner Barrick (CA;ABX), together with the world's largest gold producer, AngloGold (ZA;ANG), might be planning to bid for South Africa's second largest gold producer Gold Fields (ZA;GFS). A reliable source said the joint bid is expected by the end of this week. ( Story .12596 ) 

 Australian regulator rejects Qantas/Ansett revised Hazelton proposals 

 Melbourne-Jan. 18-The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission rejected revised proposals by the nation's major airli.es Qantas Airways Ltd. [AU;QAN] and Ansett Australia to acquire regional carrier Hazelton Airways Ltd [AU;HZA]. The ACCC said Qantas and Ansett had failed to address its concerns over the impact the acquisition of the smaller airline would have on competition in the regional aviation market. ( story .5950 ) 

 San Miguel declines to comment on Coke unit purchase report 

 Manila-Jan. 18-Philippine food and beverage giant San Miguel Corp. (PH;SMC) declined to comment on a newspaper report quoting sources that the company expects to finalize the acquisition of 70% of Coca-Cola Bottlers Philippines Inc., the Philippine unit of Australian soft-drink bottler and distributor Coca-Cola Amatil (AU;CCA) within this month. ( Story .11901 ) 

 (C) Copyright 2001 FWN 


KEYWORD:	    Washington.


Document fws0000020010712dx1i005pe




 BRIDGE UPDATE-COMPANY NEWS - Johnson Controls beats Q1 estimates. 

971 words
18 January 2001
12:51
FWN Select
FWS
English
(c) 2001

 Jan 18, 2001 (FWN Select via COMTEX) - TOP STORIES: 

 Johnson Controls Q1 EPS $1.10 beats First Call's $1.02 

 Detroit-Jan. 18-Johnson Controls Inc. (US;JCI) said its net income for the first quarter rose 4% from year-ago levels to $102.5 million, or $1.10 per share, compared with $99.0 million, or $1.06 per share, reported a year ago. The results solidly beat First Call's expectations of $1.02 per share for the quarter. The company said favorable tax rates ano continued strong sales helped boost the numbers for the quarter. ( Story .14879 ) 

 Netherlands' ASML profit triples in 2000 on strong demand 

 Amsterdam-Jan. 18-ASM Lithography Holding NV (NL;ASML), the Dutch manufacturer of equipment used in semiconductor production, has said its profits more than tripled in 2000 as customer demand for its products outstripped capacity. Net income for the year was 347 million euros ($326 million) or 0.83 euro per share, up from 81 million euros or 0.19 euro per share in 1999 and ahead of analysts' expectations. ( Story .5960 ) 

 Sonera full-year profits fall 35% on development costs 

 Helsinki-Jan. 18-Sonera Corp. (FI;SRA), the Finnish telecommunications operator, said pretax profit excluding exceptional items for 2000 fell 35% due to the expense of developing new services and projects. Pretax profit excluding sales gains and losses was 310 million euros ($291 million), down from 476 million euros in 1999, according to preliminary figures. Finland's former state monopoly spent around 240 million euros on developing new service businesses. ( Story .5961 ) 

 Lafarge group sales up 16% to 12.2 billion euros in 2000 

 Paris-Jan. 18-French construction materials producer Lafarge (FR;LG) reported group sales of 12.216 billion euros for the year ending Dec. 31, 2000, up 16% on 1999, when the group had sales of 10.528 billion euros. Lafarge said its underlying activity growth attained 4.7% in 2000, compared with 2.5% in 1999. ( Story .11853 ) 

 Legg Mason Q3 EPS 61c compared with 54c year ago 

 New York-Jan. 18-Legg Mason (US;LM), the Baltimore-bas2d brokerage and money management firm, reported increased net earnings for its fiscal third quarter ended Dec. 31, based on increases in revenue from the firm's asset management and investment banking businesses. Legg Mason reported net earnings of $41.3 million for the third quarter, up 17.0% from $35.3 million the previous year. Diluted earnings per share totaled 61 cents, up from 54c a year ago. The figure matched the First Call consensus estimate. ( Story .14755 ) 

 OF INTEREST: 

 PricewaterhouseCoopers year revenues up 15% 

 New York-Jan. 18-PricewaterhouseCoopers reported revenues of $21.5 billion in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2000, a 15% rise over $18.7 billion reported last year. Net revenues, which exclude subcontractor and other expenses, were $19.6 billion. The firm said revenues from the assurance and business advisory services rose 11% to $8.4 billion, revenues from management consulting services rose 14% to $6.6 billion, revenues from the tax business rose 17% to $4 billion, while revenues from the financial advisory services rose 21% to $1.5 billion. ( Story .14099 ) 

 Deutsche Boerse's Breuer says not in talks for stake in Nasdaq 

 Frankfurt-Jan. 18-Rolf Breuer, chairman of the supervisory board of Deutsche Boerse AG, Thursday said the German stock exchange operator is not in talks with U.S. technology exchange Nasdaq. Breuer was speaking on the sidelines of the bourse's extraordinary meeting of shareholders, where shareholders voted in favor of a planned capital hike of 2.936 million shares. ( Story .14145 ) 

 Prudential, Royal & Sun surge on positive outlook aeor 2001 

 London-Feb. 18-Prudential PLC (GB;PRU) and Royal & Sun Alliance Group Insurance Group (GB;RSA) have seen their shares surge after both U.K. insurance heavyweights forecast healthy growth for 2000. Prudential reported sales for 2000 up 13% on 1999. Royal & Sun's outlook was optimistic despite reporting that bad weather in the U.K. and other European countries will result in fourth-quarter exceptional losses of 180-200 million sterling ($265-$295 million). ( Story .12298 ) 

 IBM fourth-quarter earnings beat Wall Street estimates 

 New York-Jan. 17-IBM Corp. (IBM) has said that its fourth-quarter earnings rose 28%, beating Wall Street forecasts by 2 cents. The leading computer-maker posted earnings for the period of $2.7 billion, or $1.48 per share, up from $2.1 billion, or $1.12 per share, a year ago. Analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial had been expecting $1.46 per share. ( Story .6056 ) 

 Apple Computer fourth-quarter loss smaller than expected 

 Washington-Jan. 17-Apple Computer Inc. (AAPL) said that it lost $195 million, or 58 cents a share, in its fourth quarter, in line with its December warning that it would post its first quarterly loss since Steve Jobs returned as chief executive in 1997. A year ago, the personal computer-maker posted a profit of $183 million, or 51 cents a share. Analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial had predicted a loss of 65 cents in the quarter. ( Story .7868 ) 

 Italy's Seat hurt by protracted battle to take over TMC 

 Milan-Jan. 18-Shares in Seat Pagine Gialle SpA (IT;SPG) fell sharply in early trade on the Milan stoc" market after Italy's Communications Authority announced late Wednesday it had rejected plans by the yellow pages publisher to take over TV network Telemontecarlo (TMC). Analysts, however, feel that Seat will ultimately succeed in acquiring TMC but they add that a long protracted legal battle could weigh negatively on the stock. ( Story .13525 ) 

 Switzerland's Sulzer 2000 sales up 7%, better 2001 seen 

 (C) Copyright 2001 FWN 

 . 

Document fws0000020010712dx1i005pb




 Scient Meets Lowered 3rd-Quarter Views, Warns Of Shrinking Revenue 

 By Marcelo Prince 
539 words
17 January 2001
22:26
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 Dow Jones Newswires 

 NEW YORK -- Internet consulting company Scient Corp. reported weak fiscal third-quarter results that essentially met its previously reduced targets, but signaled that its business continues to evaporate. 

 After reporting December quarter revenue of $79.8 million, a 22% drop from the previous quarter, Scient expects sales to shrink anywhere from 30% to 38% in the next three months. 

 Scient (SCNT), which is in the midst of a restructuring, predicted March quarter sales of $50 million to $55 million. Scient also projected a pro forma loss from operations of $6 million to $10 million, or 6 cents to 10 cents a share, in March, wider than the consensus estimate of a seven-cent loss. 

 The San Francisco firm, like many of its rivals, is suffering from a sustained drop in demand for Web services and the demise of dot-com clients. These developments prompted a warning of a significant shortfall from the company on Dec. 6. On that date, it predicted a December quarter loss of 16 cents a share on revenue of $80 million, compared with previous estimates of an eight-cent profit on sales of $110 million. 

 On Wednesday it reported a loss from operations, excluding a $47.2 million restructuring charge and other items, of $12.7 million, or 13 cents a share, in the December quarter. 

 The company admitted that little has changed since it issued its warning in early December and the environment remains challenging. "In the near term this market is extraordinarily difficult and treacherous," Bob Howe, chairman and chief executive, said in a teleconference. He said the broad-based slowdown in demand continues, as does stiff price competition. 

 Scient said it laid off 405 employees during its third quarter and now has 1,073 billable consultants. Executives said Wednesday they expect to complete the current round of layoffs shortly and have no plans for deeper cuts. 

 In conjunction with its December earnings warning, Scient said it would cut 25% of its work force, or 450 workers. 

 On the teleconference, Scient executives also revealed they had issued new options for approximately 11 million shares to employees in December in the hopes of boosting retention. The options have a strike price of $2.62 and vest over three years, executives said. 

 Scient's $47.2 million restructuring charge was larger than expected because in addition to severance and office closing costs, it included a reserve against its Scient Capital investment portfolio. Scient executives said $22 million of the total charge had been paid off or written off in the December quarter. 

 Scient executives said they are committed to returning to profitability, but declined to give guidance beyond the March quarter or say when they anticipate a return to profitability. 

 Scient shares, which traded as high as $133.75 last year amid the Internet boom, were down 56 cents, or 14%, to $3.44 in 4 p.m. EST trading Wednesday on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Shares were little changed in after-hours trading on the Island ECN. 

 Write to Marcelo Prince at marcelo.prince@dowjones.com 

 Copyright (c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020010711dx1h00917




 Scient Meets Lowered 3Q Views, Warns Of Shrinking Revs 

 By Marcelo Prince 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
518 words
17 January 2001
22:11
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Internet consulting company Scient Corp. (SCNT) reported weak fiscal third-quarter results that essentially met its previously reduced targets, but signaled that its business continues to evaporate. 

 After reporting December quarter revenue of $79.8 million - a 22% drop from the previous quarter - Scient expects sales to shrink anywhere from 30% to 38% in the next three months. 

 Scient, which is in the midst of a restructuring, predicted March quarter sales of $50 million to $55 million. Scient also projected a pro forma operating loss of $6 million to $10 million, or 6 cents to 10 cents a share, in March, wider than the consensus estimate of a 7-cent loss. 

 The San Francisco firm, like many of its rivals, is suffering from a sustained drop in demand for Web services and the demise of dot-com clients. These developments prompted a warning of a significant shortfall from the company on Dec. 6. On that date, it predicted a December quarter loss of 16 cents a share on revenue of $80 million, compared with previous estimates of an 8-cent profit on sales of $110 million. 

 On Wednesday it reported an operating loss, excluding a $47.2 million restructuring charge and other items, of $12.7 million, or 13 cents a share in the December quarter. 

 The company admitted that little has changed since it issued its warning in early December and the environment remains challenging. "In the near term this market is extraordinarily difficult and treacherous," Bob Howe, chairman and chief executive, said in a teleconference. He said the broad-based slowdown in demand continues, as does stiff price competition. 

 Scient said it laid off 405 employees during its third quarter and now has 1,073 billable consultants. Executives said Wednesday they expect to complete the current round of layoffs shortly and have no plans for deeper cuts. 

 In conjunction with its December earnings warning, Scient said it would cut 25% of its work force, or 450 workers. 

 On the teleconference, Scient executives also revealed they had issued new options for approximately 11 million shares to employees in December in the hopes of boosting retention. The options have a strike price of $2.62 and vest over three years, executives said. 

 Scient's $47.2 million restructuring charge was larger than expected because in addition to severance and office closing costs, it included a reserve against its Scient Capital investment portfolio. Scient executives said $22 million of the total charge had been paid off or written off in the December quarter. 

 Scient executives said they are committed to returning to profitability, but declined to give guidance beyond the March quarter or say when they anticipate a return to profitability. 

 Scient shares, which traded as high as $133.75 last year amid the Internet boom, ended Wednesday's session at $3.44 and were little changed in after-hours trading on the Island ECN. 

 -By Marcelo Prince, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5244; marcelo.prince@dowjones.com 

Document dj00000020010711dx1h023lq




 BRIDGE UPDATE-MAJOR MARKETS - Nasdaq surges over 4%, Dow turns... 

646 words
17 January 2001
16:41
FWN Select
FWS
English
(c) 2001

 Jan 17, 2001 (FWN Select via COMTEX) - TOP STORIES: 

 Nasdaq rises 5%, Dow Jones moves back into positive territory 

 New York-Jan. 17-The Nasdaq extended its lead in early trade as chip stocks surged 10% despite a revenue warning from Intel (INTC). Traders say Intel's announcement was not unexpected and that some people may have been fearing much worse. Applied Micro Circuits (AMCC) also helped the sector, climbing 13% to 79 1/4 after beating Street estimates by 2 cents pYr share in reporting a third-quarter profit of 16 cents. The Dow moved back into positive territory as technology stocks posted strong gains. The Dow was up 23 points at 10,676, while the Nasdaq was up 123 points at 2742. ( Story .1300 ) 

 Dollar strengthens after US inflation report 

 New York-Jan. 17-A report showing inflation remains under control in the United States helped the dollar rebound from losses in Asian trading to gain against both the euro and the yen. Buying by U.S. and Swiss market participants boosted the dollar off a six-day low of 116.90 yen. In early trading, the dollar was worth 117.90 yen. Early in the day, the euro was at 93.85 cents, down from 94.22 yen a day earlier. ( Story .901 ) 

 Stocks hurt short end Treasuries, buyback news lifts 30-year bond 

 New York-Jan. 16-Shorter-end Treasuries declined early morning as the Nasdaq rallied on the open. The short-end was particularly hit on a reversal of the flight to quality, and as traders reported good selling of two-year notes to make room for next Wednesday's auction of new two-year notes. On the other hand, bonds rose as the weaker than expected industrial production numbers and on account of the larger-than-expected buyback of bonds on Thursday. ( Story .312 ) 

 European indexes rise on positive Intel results 

 London-Jan. 17-European markets were all up in morning trade on the back of better-than-expected results from the U.S. technology sector leader Intel Corp., which came after the U.S. close on Tuesday. Technology stocks were strong across the board and big gains were made by the U.K.'s Powergen after conaeirmation they were in talks with Germany's E.ON about being taken over. The U.K.'s benchmark FTSE-100 index was up 53.03 at 3491.79. ( Story .1165 ) 

 European bonds modestly lower on dealer selling 

 London-Jan. 17-Trading in all bond markets has been dominated by dealer activity with others preferring to sit on the sidelines until this afternoon's full calendar of data, speeches, hearings and announcements are released into the market and digested. At the end of the European morning the benchmark German government bond, the Mar Bund was down 6 ticks at 108.29, and the benchmark U.K. government bond, the Mar Gilt was down 29 ticks at 114.59. ( Story .337 ) 

 OF INTEREST: 

 Japan bonds close marginally lower 

 Tokyo-Jan. 17-March yen bond futures closed marginally lower, reflecting a slight rise in the Nikkei. The March futures fell briefly to 135.72, just after the release of the tender results of the 20-year government bonds at 1400 JT. However, the March futures rebounded somewhat and closed at 135.80, down 0.25 from Tuesday. ( Story .100 ) 

 Japan stocks end up for fourth consecutive day 

 Tokyo-Jan. 17-The Nikkei closed higher for the fourth straight session for the first time since Oct. 4. With sentiment boosted by an improved near-term outlook for the Japanese and U.S. stock markets, short-covering and bargain-hunting pushed shares higher. Telecommunications and bank shares rose particularly strongly. The Nikkei rose 83 points, or 0.6% to 13,667. ( Story .1105 ) 

 (C) Copyright 2001 FWN 

 . 

Document fws0000020010712dx1h005ns




 BRIDGE UPDATE-MAJOR MARKETS - Nasdaq surges 5%, Dow turns ... 

644 words
17 January 2001
16:00
FWN Select
FWS
English
(c) 2001

 Jan 17, 2001 (FWN Select via COMTEX) - TOP STORIES: 

 Nasdaq rises 5%, Dow Jones moves back into positive territory 

 New York-Jan. 17-The Nasdaq extended its lead in early trade as chip stocks surged 10% despite a revenue warning from Intel (INTC). Traders say Intel's announcement was not unexpected and that some people may have been fearing much worse. Applied Micro Circuits (AMCC) also helped the sector, climbing 13% to 79 1/4 after beating Street estimates by 2 cents per share in reporting a third-quarter profit of 16 cents. The Dow moved back into positive territory as technology stocks posted strong gains. The Dow was up 36 points at 10,688, while the Nasdaq was up 130 points at 2748. ( Story .1300 ) 

 Dollar strengthens after US inflation report 

 New York-Jan. 17-A report showing inflation remains under control in the United States helped the dollar rebound from losses in Asian trading to gain against both the euro and the yen. Buying by U.S. and Swiss market participants boosted the dollar off a six-day low of 116.90 yen. In early trading, the dollar was worth 117.90 yen. Early in the day, the euro was at 93.85 cents, down from 94.22 yen a day earlier. ( Story .901 ) 

 Stocks hurt short end Treasuries, buyback news lifts 30-year bond 

 New York-Jan. 16-Shorter-end Treasuries declined early morning as the Nasdaq rallied on the open. The short-end was particularly hit on a reversal of the flight to quality, and as traders reported good selling of two-year notes to make room for nextWednesday's auction of new two-year notes. On the other hand, bonds rose as the weaker than expected industrial production numbers and on account of the larger-than-expected buyback of bonds on Thursday. ( Story .312 ) 

 European indexes rise on positive Intel results 

 London-Jan. 17-European markets were all up in morning trade on the back of better-than-expected results from the U.S. technology sector leader Intel Corp., which came after the U.S. close on Tuesday. Technology stocks were strong across the board and big gains were made by the U.K.'s Powergen after confirmation they were in talks with Germany's E.ON about being taken over. The U.K.'s benchmark FTSE-100 index was up 53.03 at 3491.79. ( Story .1165 ) 

 European bonds modestly lower on dealer selling 

 London-Jan. 17-Trading in all bond markets has been dominated by dealer activity with others preferring to sit on the sidelines until this afternoon's full calendar of data, speeches, hearings and announcements are released into the market and digested. At the end of the European morning the benchmark German government bond, the Mar Bund was down 6 ticks at 108.29, and the benchmark U.K. government bond, the Mar Gilt was down 29 ticks at 114.59. ( Story .337 ) 

 OF INTEREST: 

 Japan bonds close marginally lower 

 Tokyo-Jan. 17-March yen bond futures closed marginally lower, reflecting a slight rise in the Nikkei. The March futures fell briefly to 135.72, just after the release of the tender results of the 20-year government bonds at 1400 JT. However, the March futures rebounded somewhat and closed at 135.80, down 0.25 frou Tuesday. ( Story .100 ) 

 Japan stocks end up for fourth consecutive day 

 Tokyo-Jan. 17-The Nikkei closed higher for the fourth straight session for the first time since Oct. 4. With sentiment boosted by an improved near-term outlook for the Japanese and U.S. stock markets, short-covering and bargain-hunting pushed shares higher. Telecommunications and bank shares rose particularly strongly. The Nikkei rose 83 points, or 0.6% to 13,667. ( Story .1105 ) 

 (C) Copyright 2001 FWN 

 . 

Document fws0000020010712dx1h005no




 UK Retailers: Supermarkets Emerge As Top Sector 

 By James Hall 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
756 words
16 January 2001
14:40
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 LONDON -(Dow Jones)-  In a turbulent holiday season for U.K. retailers, supermarket chains have emerged with the most to cheer about. 

 Although grocers always do well over Christmas - when food and drink consumption peaks - Tesco PLC (U.TSC), Safeway PLC (U.SFW), and Wm Morrisons Supermarkets PLC (U.MRW) this year saw forecast-busting like-for-like sales growth as they cut prices and increased non-core ranges in U.K. retailing's most competitive sector. 

 Wal-Mart INC-owned Asda (WMT) also said it had its best ever trading week in the run-up to Christmas, with sales up to a fifth higher than 1999. 

 A buoyant food sector compares favorably with fashion which is facing a period of increasing uncertainty, epitomized by discount operator Matalan PLC's (U.MAN) spectacular 49% fall in value last Thursday or high street chain Oasis Stores PLC's (U.OAS) profit warning Tuesday. 

 But food sector favorites did as expected. Tesco said Monday like-for-like sales for the seven weeks to Jan. 6 were up 6.7%, against forecasts of 4%. Morrisons last week reported a like-for-like sales increase of 8% for the five weeks to Jan. 7, against a forecasted rise of 4%. 

 All eyes, however, have been on the 'three Ss' - J Sainsbury PLC (U.SBR), Somerfield PLC (U.SFD) and Safeway - all of which have demonstrated successful initial turnarounds under new chief executives over the last 12 months. 

 Safeway said Tuesday that third quarter sales were up 5.9% like-for-like for the 12 weeks to Jan. 6, an increase from a first half rise of 5%. 

 Finance director Simon Luffin told Dow Jones Newswires the group continues to poach new customers from rivals under the guidance of chief executive Carlos Criado-Perez, who joined in November 1999. He said Safeway plans capital expenditure of GBP150 million refurbishing existing stores this year, and a further GBP350 million next year, in an attempt to hold on to new customers. 

 "A lot of commentators said we were a one year wonder, and that our like-for-likes would come up against tough comparables from last year. But we've still got the highest volume growth in the sector," he said. 

 One analyst, who requested anonymity, said Safeway's figures were "fine" but that the market will wait until the first quarter of next financial year to see if the new customers are there for the long haul. 

 Last Friday Sainsbury's reported that third quarter like-for-like sales grew by 0.7%, way below its peers. However Sainsbury's shares rose 7 pence to 356 pence following the results. 

 A second analyst - also requesting anonymity - said the market reacted favorably as there was concern that Sainsbury's profits were under pressure. "This is emphatically not the case," he said. 

 Sainsbury's chief executive Sir Peter Davis told Dow Jones Newswires he had succeeding in halting the decline in profits and had stopped customers deserting to rivals. "The first positive statement is there is no profits warning," he said. Davis pointed to a like-for-like sales leap of 7.1% in refurbished stores as evidence that Sainsbury's is finally shedding its jaded image. 

 However final evidence that the sector is picking up came Tuesday from former basket case Somerfield, which also owns the Kwik Save chain. Although the struggling retailer announced dire first half losses of GBP21.7 million, compared with a profit of GBP45.6 million last year, the poor figures belied the fact that chairman John Von Spreckelsen has managed to stabilize hemorrhaging sales over the Christmas period. At 1325 GMT, Somerfield's shares had risen 7.75 pence, or 8.8%, to 96 pence. 

 "Nine months ago like-for-like sales were down 10%. In the four weeks to January they were flat, so there has been a 10% swing," Von Spreckelsen told Dow Jones Newswires. 

 Von Spreckelsen said the group will invest up to GBP240 million in refurbishing the group's 1,300 stores to "compete with the best" over the next 18 months. 

 Consolidation in European food retailing means U.K. grocers remain vulnerable to outside interest. While last year analysts warned that no outsider would touch the U.K. food sector in its depressed state, potential stalkers may now see more attractive targets in their sites. 

 -By James Hall, Dow Jones Newswires; 020-7842-9272; jamesf.hall@dowjones.com 

Document dji0000020010711dx1g0094e




 Companies: Disney's Good 2000 Puts Eisner Back On Bonus Track --- CEO Gets $11.5 Million After Company's Weak '99 

 By Bruce Orwall 
Staff Reporter
393 words
15 January 2001
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
5
English
 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Walt Disney Co. Chairman and Chief Executive Michael Eisner was awarded an $11.5 million (12.1 million euros) bonus for the year that ended Sept. 30, 2000, up strongly from 1999 when he and most other top Disney corporate officers were shut out of bonuses after a poor year. 

 In Disney's annual proxy statement, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the company also disclosed that it has raised Mr. Eisner's annual base salary to $1 million from $750,000. That's the first increase in the Disney chief's salary since he took over in 1984. 

 Disney said that $3 million of Mr. Eisner's 2000 bonus will be deferred until 2004. Additionally, Mr. Eisner's package of Disney stock options was restructured for tax purposes. 

 He also was awarded options on two million shares of Disney Internet Group, the stock that tracks Disney's Internet performance. The strike price for those shares, $25.66, is well above Disney Internet Group's Friday closing price of $5.56 on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 A Disney spokesman said the bonus awards to Mr. Eisner and other executives reflected the company's stronger financial performance in 2000. In his annual letter to shareholders, Mr. Eisner said the company's performance "represents a return to the kind of growth we have enjoyed for most of the past 16 years." 

 That depends on how Disney's results are viewed. For the year, the company often beat Wall Street expectations, its stock price rose, and pro forma net income increased. The pro forma results assume that certain events occurred at the beginning of the 1999 financial year, including Disney's acquisition of the remaining interest in Infoseek Corp. and the sale of Fairchild Publications. Disney says the pro forma figures provide a better account of the continuing performance of Disney's business units. 

 But Disney's net income for 2000, including its 71% retained interest in Disney Internet Group, in actual terms fell about 8% to $1.2 billion. And since Sept. 30, Disney's stock price has dropped off again and it has issued a warning that its first-quarter profit would be flat. 

Document wsje000020010713dx1f000tv

Search Summary

 Text((“profit*” same “warning*”) or ("disappoint*" same "result*") or ("decreas*" same "profit*") or ("compan*" same "downturn*") or ("unexpect*" same "loss*"))   Date01/01/2001 to 01/31/2001   SourceAll Sources   AuthorAll Authors   CompanyAll Companies   Subject Not Corporate/Industrial News   IndustryAll Industries   RegionUnited States   LanguageEnglish   Results Found151   Timestamp29 March 2018 13:23  










•	  Evening Standard, London, Market Report Column 
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	  KINGFISHER DIPS AS SELL-OFF HOPES FADE... 
•	  Wall St falls as $A dips. 
•	  A giant's  first steps ; World waits as AOL Time Warner  starts conquering media kingdoms 
•	  BUSINESS DIGEST 
•	 Warning harms Safeco stock
•	  Markets Nasdaq's 3-Day Win Streak Comes to End 
•	  US stocks lower after seesaw session ATTENTION - UPDATES with closing prices /// 
•	  $A slips but it's `not all gloom'. 
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	  Europe Stocks Midday - Up on Nasdaq rally led by tech sector. 
•	 Techs give Nasdaq a win streak; Index up for 3 straight days; some backsliding after hours
•	 TSE 300 moves up by 204.59; Bouchard's resignation boosts loonie  
•	  Business News From The Israeli Press Thursday 
•	 Barnes & Noble issues  profit warning
•	 Digital Now Cuts 16 Jobs After Issuing  Profit Warning
•	  MARKET TALK/Europe: Roundup Of Stocks, Mkt Activity 
•	  Markets Stocks Finish Lower Despite Bargain Hunting in Last Hour 
•	  Valley of the Mudslingers Benchmark Capital went from Silicon Valley's favorite son to its whipping boy. 
•	  Recession fears as US print issues warnings 
•	  US retailers see cold December sales. 
•	  Investors flee German technology stocks 
•	  Most European, Asian markets rally, US stocks finish lower 
•	 Double worry puts BAE Systems in dive; MARKET REPORT  
•	  Global stock markets rally after US rate cut by Daniel Rook ATTENTION - UPDATES with Frankfurt close /// 
•	  Global stock markets rally after US rate cut by Daniel Rook ATTENTION - RECASTS, UPDATES prices, rates /// 
•	  Techs take tumble. 
•	  Analysis: Growth of high-technology and how it has changed the geographic centers in the United States 
•	  U.S. stock board the Fed rocket, Treasuries tumble. 
•	  How we could all catch a cold from America's economic chill. 
•	  Neuer Markt Starts 2001 As It Ended 2000 - Very Weakly 
•	  Shareholder Advocacy Group To Sue EM.TV Late Jan - VWD 
•	  Headlines From International Herald Tribune Wednesday 
•	  Intershop to rethink US strategy after disastrous fourth quarter ATTENTION - ADDS share movement /// 
•	  HI-TECHS SLIDE AFTER NASDAQ DRUBBING. 
•	 Europe Press - WSJ Digest - Intershop shares fall on  profit warning .
•	  Europe Stocks Midday - In the red on Nasdaq rout - techs worst hit. 
•	  MARKET TALK: AG Edwards Says VRSN Core Long-Term Holding 
•	  MARKET TALK: Salomon Reits Buy On WCOM, Target Is $45 
•	  MARKET TALK: ICI Revises Nov. Flows Into Stock Funds 
•	  MARKET TALK: Junk Bonds Ended Year On High Note, Sort Of 
•	  MARKET TALK: Calif. Utility Bonds Get Bump Higher 
•	  MARKET TALK: Saxton Says Time To Cut Rates Is Now 
•	  MARKET TALK: Nymex Crude Rebounds, Trading Still Choppy 
•	  MARKET TALK: Euro Approaching 95c Vs. Dollar 
•	  MARKET TALK: March S&Ps, Nasdaq May Retest Day's Lows 
•	  MARKET TALK: History Says Small-Caps May Outperform Again 
•	  MARKET TALK: Intershop Woes Find Way Into U.S. Names 
•	  The preacher:  Mark Twain and slaying Christians 
•	  Slower US growth dragging down local companies  

 Evening Standard, London, Market Report Column 

 Lachlan Colquhoun 
655 words
15 January 2001
Knight Ridder Tribune Business News - KRTBN
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2001 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 HIGH-FLYING EASYJET SOARS TO A RECORD: Shares of budget airline operator easyJet rose a further 81/2 pence to 4131/2 pence -- their highest level since floating on the stock market in December. 

 Two big broking houses have taken a shine to easyJet with US securities house Schroder Salomon Smith Barney initiating coverage with a "buy" recommendation and a target price of 500 pence. Rival Credit Suisse First Boston has begun following the shares again and rates them a buy up to the 460 pence level. CSFB says the low-fare aviation market is the fastest-growing segment of a growth industry. EasyJet has placed orders for planes that should guarantee growth of around 25 percent a year over the next four years. The group intends to concentrate on expanding existing routes. 

 Despite Friday's setback for the Dow Jones, the FTSE 100 index managed to recover an early fall to post a modest gain of 2.7 to 6168.2. But with Wall Street closed today for Martin Luther King's birthday, few punters were expecting to make a fortune. 

 Kingfisher fell 18 pence to 468 pence on claims its demerger of Woolworths and Superdrug may be shelved. Boots fell 22 pence to 551 pence after US securities house Goldman Sachs downgraded the shares. 

 British Telecom was undermined by a report claiming the group was ready to slash the final dividend. The shares slumped 14 pence to 6961/2 pence although sources close to the company were quietly pouring cold water on the report. 

 Troubled Railtrack retreated 28 pence to 965 pence on the back of its profit warning that will see the railway infrastructure group make write-offs totalling almost UKpound 600 million. About UKpound 400 million will be paid in compensation to train operators with the balance relating to the cost of re-laying track in the wake of the Hatfield crash. HSBC fell 16 pence to 987 pence after broker Credit Suisse First Boston cut its rating from "buy" to "hold". It continues to restate its preference for Asian-based rival Standard Chartered, 51/2 pence cheaper at 10241/2 pence. 

 Housebuilder Beazer rose 2 pence to 170 pence as the struggle for control of the company intensified. Last week rival Bryant Group, 2 pence lighter at 180 pence, said it would proceed with its agreed UKpound 759 million merger after rejecting several offers from construction group Taylor Woodrow, 41/2 pence better at 176 pence. But now another housebuilder, Persimmon, 51/2 pence easier at 271/2 pence, says it may make a bid for Beazer if the deal with Bryant is blocked. 

 Investors are keeping their fingers crossed that the sell-off in the hi-tech sector may have run its course. A steadier performance of late from Nasdaq has raised hopes that the bottom of the market may have been reached after a fall of more than 40 percent last year. Second-line tech stocks were well supported with IQE, up 161/2 pence at 195 pence, Photo-Me 61/2 pence better at 96 pence and nCipher ahead 141/2 pence at 255 pence. 

 Oil shares were marked higher ahead of Wednesday's meeting of Opec in Vienna at which members are expected to agree production cuts of between 1.5 million and two million barrels a day. This should bolster the price of crude, which has fallen as low as $25 a barrel recently. BP Amoco rose 151/2 pence to 571 pence and Shell put on 14 pence at 563 pence. Bank of America published its list of top 10 buys. They include Pilkington, up 1/2 pence at 116 pence, Laporte, down 3 pence at 687 pence, Dixons, down 31/2 pence at 2651/2 pence, British Energy, 1/4 pence firmer at 2101/4 pence, and Tesco, up 61/2 pence at 264 pence. 

Document krtbn00020010711dx1f00a6s
 

Newscast: Business news and stock report   

555 words
15 January 2001
CBS News: Morning News
CBSM
English
(c) Copyright 2001, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

JULIE CHEN, anchor:   

US financial markets are closed today in observance of the Martin Luther King holiday. In Tokyo overnight, the Nikkei index was up more than 1 percent.   

(Graphic on screen)   

TOKYO NIKKEI AVERAGE   

13,506.23 up 158.49   

CHANGE: up 1.19%   

CBS.MARKETWATCH.COM   

CHEN: On the CBS MarketWatch, a look at the week ahead on Wall Street. Renay San Miguel has the details.   

RENAY SAN MIGUEL reporting:   

The future of the new economy is spelled AOL-TWX. One year after the merger of America Online and  Time Warner was first announced, the government has made the new company jump through its last hoop and has cleared the way for what many are calling a new era of digital media.   

That bit of news and some more profit warnings from the nation's top tech companies dominated Friday's trading. The Dow ended down 84 points to 10,525 as tech, paper, financial and drug stocks took it on the chin.   

(Graphic on screen)   

DOW INDUSTRIALS   

down to 84.17 10,525.38   

SAN MIGUEL: The NASDAQ did start the day in plus territory before a minor spurt of late afternoon selling put it back into the red. It ended down 14 points.   

(Graphic on screen)   

NASDAQ COMPOSITE   

down to 14.07 2,626.50   

SAN MIGUEL: Here's how AOL- Time Warner shares performed on Friday, a day after the FCC gave its final approval of the deal.   

(Graphic on screen)   

FCC APPROVAL   

AOL TIME WARNER   

down to 0.76 46.47   

SAN MIGUEL: That approval, though, hinges on AOL making its market-leading instant messaging system work with competing systems. Also, smaller Internet service providers must have access.   

The hardware sector was rocked by two--count 'em--two bits of bad news late in the week.  Hewlett-Packard issued its second profit warning in as many quarters. CEO Carly Fiorina said it was like somebody turned out the lights on corporate technology spending.   

(Graphic on screen)   

PC STOCKS   

HEWLETT PACKARD (HWP) GATEWAY (GTW)   

down down 1.69 1.80 to to 30.69 21.10   

SAN MIGUEL: And Gateway issued earnings a week ahead of schedule and missed Wall Street estimates, saying consumer PC sales are still sluggish.   

(Graphic on screen)   

IN THE SPOTLIGHT   

AT&T (T) DOUBLECLICK (DCLK)   

up up 1.19 3.50 to to 24.44 14.75   

SAN MIGUEL:  AT&T and DoubleClick gave investors a double dose of good news. Telephone got a higher rating from  J.P. Morgan, H&Q and DoubleClick, the online advertiser, had better than expected earnings.   

The week ahead will have us getting knee-deep into the earnings season. Here's a list of some of the heavyweights reporting in all kinds of sectors: AMR, parent of American Airlines,  Advanced Micro Devices, Apple,  Boeing, GM, Philip Morris, Nortel,  SBC Communications, Schlumberger and  Microsoft. Economic indicators to watch for include the Consumer Price Index for December and the number of new housing starts.   

For more on the markets, go to cbs.marketwatch.com or AOL, keyword MarketWatch. I'm Renay San Miguel, cbs.marketwatch.com.   

CHEN: Straight ahead, your Monday morning weather.   

And in sports, Baltimore's big Tony Siragusa crunches Raider Rich Gannon and the Raiders' Super Bowl hopes.   

(Announcements)   

Document CBSM000020070818dx1f003ne
 

 

 KINGFISHER DIPS AS SELL-OFF HOPES FADE... 

585 words
15 January 2001
The Evening Standard
NS
English
(c) 2001

 KINGFISHER DIPS AS SELL-OFF HOPES FADECITY investors returned after the weekend break to see share prices post modest gains in thin trading. But with Wall Street and Nasdaq closed for Martin Luther King Day, few punters were pinning much on their hopes of making their fortune.Despite Friday's setback for the Dow Jones, the FTSE 100 index managed to recover an early fall to score a rise of 10 to 6175.5. But few brokers were betting on the market retaining its slim lead.Stores group Kingfisher was an early casualty, falling 15p to 471p on the back of reports that the planned demerger of its Woolworth and Superdrug outlets may be shelved. The management of the B&Q and Comet retailer has received several offers for its Superdrug operation and is considering plans for a management buyout of Woolworth. 

  Wal-Mart and the Canadian Shoppers Drug Mart are seen as the most likely bidders for Superdrug.British Telecom was undermined by a report at the weekend claiming the group was ready to slash the final dividend in an attempt to help reduce its growing debt burden. The shares slumped 161/2p to 694p although sources close to the company were quietly pouring cold water on the report.Troubled Railtrack retreated 28p to 965p on the back of its profit warning that will see the railway infrastructure group make write-offs totalling almost #600 million. About #400 million will be paid in compensation to train operators with the balance relating to the cost of re-laying track in the wake of the Hatfield crash.HSBC fell 14p to 989p after broker Credit Suisse First Boston cut its rating from "buy" to "hold". It continues to restate its preference for Asian-based rival Standard Chartered, 2p cheaper at 1028p.Tesco was marked 21/2p higher to 260p ahead of its Christmas trading update. Only last week rival J Sainsbury, 1p dearer at 257p, reported bumper Christmas sales and saw its shares marked sharply higher, although like-for-like sales were a mere 0.7% ahead. Somerfield was 1p lower at 88p ahead of results on Wednesday.Housebuilder Beazer rose 4p to 172p as the struggle for control of the company intensified. Last week rival Bryant Group, unmoved at 182p, said it would proceed with its agreed #759 million merger after rejecting several offers from construction group Taylor Woodrow, 11/2p better at 173p. But now another housebuilder, Persimmon, 2p easier at 275p, says it may make a bid for Beazer if the deal with Bryant is blocked.Investors are keeping their fingers crossed that the sell-off in the hi-tech sector may have run its course. A steadier performance of late from Nasdaq has raised hopes that the bottom of the market may have been reached after a fall of more than 40% last year. Second-line tech stocks were well supported with Computacenter up 11p at 3981/2p, Kewill Systems 91/2p better at 360p and Telecity 171/2p to 4971/2p.Oil shares were marked higher ahead of Wednesday's meeting of Opec in Vienna at which members of the cartel are expected to agree production cuts of 1.5 million to two million barrels a day. The measures are intended to bolster the price of crude that has fallen as low as $25 a barrel in recent weeks. BP Amoco rose 11p to 5661/2p and Shell put on 9p at 558p. 

Document ns00000020010714dx1f0009k
 

 Wall St falls as $A dips. 

365 words
14 January 2001
Sunday Mail
SUNMAI
39
English
(c) 2001 Advertiser Newspapers Limited

 NEW YORK: Stocks ended the week lower after a seesaw session in the wake of unexpectedly strong US economic data that surprised Wall Street. 

 The Dow Jones industrials slid 84.17 points (0.79 per cent) to 10,525.38 and the Nasdaq fell 14.07 points (0.53 per cent) to 2626.50. 

 The Standard and Poor's 500 dipped 8.27 points (0.62 per cent) to close at 1318.55. 

 The stronger than expected retail sales figures helped push the Australian dollar lower. 

 The figures, while weak, were not as bad as the market had expected and prompted more interest in the US dollar at the expense of other currencies. 

 The Aussie opened above 56USc following its gains in Sydney, opening at $US56.10 and hitting a high soon after of $US56.20. But it lost ground and was trading at $US55.9 shortly before its close. 

 The US producer price index last month was unchanged, although the core rate rose a fairly hefty 0.3 per cent while retail sales were up 0.1 per cent despite expectations of a slump. 

 Dealers said the sales data caused bonds to post sharp losses because it was one of the last pieces of consumer data that the Federal Reserve will receive before its January 30 meeting. It appears to indicate consumer activity is more robust than had previously been believed. 

 They noted many market players were hoping for another half-point rate reduction later this month, but signs of consumer health could thwart such a move. On the bond market, the yield on the 10-year Treasury bond jumped to 5.246 per cent from 5.114 per cent Thursday and on the 30-year bond to 5.627 per cent against 5.536 per cent. 

 The rise in yields reflected a drop in bond prices. 

 Technology stocks ended a run of three straight winning sessions, and were hurt by disappointing earnings from Gateway and a profit warning from Hewlett-Packard. 

 Microsoft also slipped after the Department of Justice said a US appeals court should uphold the District Court's ruling to split the company in two. 

Document sunmai0020010715dx1e000vi
 

 

 Business 
 A giant's  first steps ; World waits as AOL Time Warner  starts conquering media kingdoms 

 Seth Sutel 
ASSOCIATED PRESS
742 words
13 January 2001
San Antonio Express-News
SAEN
Metro
01D
English
 (c) Copyright 2001 San Antonio Express-News. All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK - Executives from the newly combined AOL Time Warner Inc. went right into champagne-popping mode Friday, ringing the opening bell at the New York Stock Exchange, beaming before TV cameras and unveiling a new sign installed overnight at their corporate headquarters. 

 But there's no escaping the fact that the merger that closed Jan. 11, 2001, faces a different world than the one that was announced Jan. 10, 2000. 

 As executives waited that year and one day for federal approval, a stock slump shrank the value of the deal from $165 billion to $106 billion. Slower ad growth is now threatening several core businesses, and expectations have been scaled back for how quickly new services such as interactive TV will be introduced. 

 Nonetheless, industry experts remain convinced that the driving premise behind the merger - combining the Internet with traditional media - is still a sound business idea. And in an era where clout counts, a behemoth the size of AOL Time Warner is best positioned to take a leading role in bringing the worlds of old and new media together. 

 Consumers are likely to see the first effects of the merger as the company brings more of Time Warner's large array of media properties online. AOL's sports sites can draw on articles and pictures from Sports Illustrated; AOL's music sites will have access to the Warner Bros. music library; and news sites can draw on stories from Time magazine and CNN. 

 But Christopher Dixon, media analyst at UBS Warburg, said the real challenge for AOL Time Warner lies in creating entirely new ways of packaging and delivering media online that will entice both consumers and the advertisers who want to reach them. 

 The company's goal will be to "develop new businesses that we can only begin to think about," such as delivery systems for music, video and TV programming via high-speed wires, Dixon said. 

 "If they can come up with a new way to deliver music in a very convenient method, it will be like introducing Windows and Lotus 1-2-3 to a world that only knew DOS and VisiCalc," he said. 

 The company has been promising to develop exactly those kinds of services, but so far no specific plans have been announced. Jerry Levin, CEO of AOL Time Warner, said in an interview that one of the projects being developed was a kind of video subscription service where viewers could pick out programs - such as HBO shows "The Sopranos" and "Sex and the City" - to view when they want. 

 Once in place, that kind of delivery model could be applied to other forms of media such as music, movies and print. The idea is to exploit AOL Time Warner's relationships with millions of customers who use subscription-based services such as AOL, magazines and cable TV. 

 "This is a company that will be subscription-based," Levin said. "If you can enhance the acquisition of those subscribers, you can upsell (premium) services, sell access to those subscribers to people called advertisers and deliver content to them." 

 Yet even while it looks to the media of the future, AOL Time Warner has some hard business realities to deal with now. 

 CNN, whose ratings have been sinking, is expected to announce hundreds of layoffs; the struggling WCW wrestling unit was sold off this week; and last month Time Warner said that poor box office and music sales would drag down its yearly results. 

 A profit warning in mid-December caught investors by surprise, and they punished the company's stock. While the shares have since recovered, the new management team is going to have to work hard to convince investors that it can still deliver big profit gains. 

 Jessica Reif Cohen, an influential media analyst at Merrill Lynch, warned investors in a note this week that the company faced a "sluggish" fourth quarter because of slowdowns in its movie and music businesses and slower advertising. She also said because of the sudden profitwarning, "confidence in the combined management team has been damaged." 

 RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS New York Stock Exchange Chairman Richard Grasso (left) and AOL Time Warner Inc. co-CEO Bob Pittman (right) await the opening bell, which Friday was rung by the new media giant's other CEO, Gerald Levin (second from left). 

Document saen000020010713dx1d002eo
 

 

 Business/Financial Desk; Section C 
 BUSINESS DIGEST 

652 words
13 January 2001
The New York Times
NYTF
Page 1, Column 1
English
(c) 2001 New York Times Company

 California Governor Orders Energy Conservation Plan 

 One day after California was on the verge of blackouts because of its energy crisis, Gov. Gray Davis ordered a crash power conservation program for the state and met with other regional governors to map out comprehensive solutions. 

 Under orders to cut energy use by 5 percent by next Tuesday, state officials initiated programs that included changing the bulbs in traffic lights to more efficient models and redirecting the power generated by a state dam to the power grid rather than to pumps in state-owned aqueducts. [Page A1.] 

 Executives of utilities and power generating plants meeting in Washington with federal and California officials narrowed their differences over a rescue package. [A11.] 

 Dow Tumbles on Profit Concerns 

 A warning from Hewlett-Packard that it would not meet quarterly or annual estimates, helped send the Dow Jones industrial average down 84.17 points, or 0.8 percent, to 10,525.38. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 14.07 points, or 0.5 percent, to 2,626.50. And the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 8.50 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,318.32. [C3.] 

 Full Pardon for Milken Is Expected 

 As one of his final acts of office, President Clinton is expected to grant a full pardon to Michael R. Milken, the former Wall Street financier who was convicted of securities fraud, lawyers involved in the process said. [A8.] 

 Hurt by Ad Decline, NBC Plans Cuts 

 NBC, accelerating a continuing cost-cutting program in the face of a drop in advertising, will cut 5 to 10 percent of its work force, or 300 to 600 jobs. Some of the cuts are expected to be achieved through attrition. [C14.] 

 Auction Houses Enrich Settlement 

 Sotheby's and Christie's have sweetened part of the $512 million class-action antitrust settlement deal they had agreed to in October. A federal judge must approve the deal. [C4.] 

 UAL Clears One Antitrust Hurdle 

 UAL, parent of United Airlines, won approval from European antitrust regulators for its planned takeover of US Airways, after promising to surrender some takeoff and landing slots at congested airports in Germany. [C3.] 

 A Profit Warning From Body Shop 

 Body Shop warned that its profit would fall 10 to 15 percent for its fiscal year ending Feb. 28, setting off a sharp decline in its stock price and contributing to a sense among analysts that the year-end holiday period has been mixed at best for Britain's retailers. [C2.] 

 Fed Official Addresses Rate Cut 

 In a speech to an economic conference in Oakland, Calif., the vice chairman of the Federal Reserve, Roger W. Ferguson Jr., left, said that the central bank's surprising decision to cut interest rates last week was not based on any information about economic or financial problems not available to the public. He hinted that tumbling stock prices had played some role. He also offered a vague forecast for what lies ahead, saying, ''I would expect a period of notable weakness early in 2001, followed by a pickup in activity.'' [C3.] 

 Hewlett-Packard Co-Founder Dies 

 William R. Hewlett, the electrical engineer who in 1938 with his partner, David Packard, pulled together $538 to set up a tiny electronics company in a Palo Alto, Calif., garage, that ultimately led to the creation of Silicon Valley, died at his home in Portola Valley, Calif. He was 87. [B9.] 

 U.S. Financial Markets Closed 

 United States financial markets will be closed on Monday in observance of Martin Luther King's Birthday. 

 Photo Chart: ''YESTERDAY'' Dow industrials -- 10,525.38 down 84.17 Nasdaq composite -- 2,626.50 down 14.07 10-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.24% up 0.14 The euro -- $0.9522 down 0.0003 The dollar -- 118.31 yen up 0.63 Graph tracks Dow Industrials since Sept. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

Document nytf000020010712dx1d001m5
 

 

Business
Warning harms Safeco stock

Greg Heberlein   
Seattle Times business reporter
765 words
13 January 2001
The Seattle Times
SETL
First
D1
English
Copyright 2001, The Seattle Times Company  All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

Yet another Safecoprofit warning proved more costly than usual yesterday.

Not only did the stock plunge 18 percent after the Seattle insurance giant said it would suffer its first quarterly loss in 18 years, but a major credit-rating agency said it may lower Safeco's rating.

A lower credit rating forces a company to pay more to borrow money, and generally makes the company less attractive to investors.

"It's a company with a very, very honored past, and it's a shame to see what's going on now," said Michael Lewis, an insurance-industry analyst with the UBS Warburg brokerage in New York. "I'm not getting down on the company ... but it's a shame it's taking so long and also a shame that management changes haven't been made."

Four months ago, Safeco said Chief Executive Roger Eigsti would leave at year's end. Last month, when a successor failed to turn up, the company said lead director Gary Reed would take over temporarily. A permanent CEO still has not been named.

Yesterday, Safeco said the fourth quarter ended Dec. 31 would show a loss of 5 to 10 cents a share. That's $6.4 million to $13 million, the first loss since the fourth quarter of 1982.

Bad weather at the end of December caused about $18 million in damages, Reed said, and surety suffered a $5 million loss because of a bankruptcy. The auto segment, Safeco's biggest, was hurt by claim costs running faster than price increases, Reed said.

The announcement slashed Safeco's stock price by $5.20, to $24. Trading volume of 4.5 million shares was five times the daily norm.

The stock has been in jail since the 1997 acquisition of American States, a rival company. Some have contended poor results since then reflected Safeco's overpayment for American States and a variety of other mismanaged problems.

Standard & Poor's, a New York rating agency, said it had expected operating results to improve by the end of 2000.

"This marks the fifth consecutive quarter," S&P said, "in which Safeco's operating results have failed to meet expectations since Standard & Poor's lowered its rating on Safeco by two notches on Nov. 16, 1999."

S&P and Lewis both expressed diasppointment that despite defined plans to attack the company's problems, results continue to worsen. Lewis said Safeco has been able to get away with stumbling for a while because of its pristine record.

"Obviously Safeco has been ahead of the curve for quite a period of time," Lewis said. "In all respects, this is not a third-rate company. Its discipline and approach to business and staying the course has been appreciated by the analytic community."

But Lewis said it has surprised analysts that Safeco has taken so long to right the ship.

Issues that dogged Safeco included an inability to impose higher auto-insurance rates quickly enough, and issues within the life-insurance unit, Lewis said. He said that with results so far down, Safeco may need to trim its cash dividend to shareholders, too, to conserve capital.

Although some of Safeco's problems have been felt by the rest of the industry, Lewis said no other insurers in Safeco's group had warned of poor results.

Safeco was formed in 1923. It maintained a conservative reputation that sometimes included rates higher than competitors', to ensure the company's financial security.

In the insurance business, companies collect premiums, then invest them in stocks, bonds, real estate and elsewhere. A measure of an insurer's success is the combined ratio. A figure below 100 means a company makes money off the insurance it writes, regardless of how the premiums are invested. Above 100 means insurance is being written at a loss and requires investment income to break even or show a profit.

Many insurers' combined ratio is above 100. Safeco's often was below 100 but hasn't been in recent periods. Safeco said its private passenger auto insurance would be about 109, business insurance would be about 109 and commercial would be about 129.

Fourth-quarter and annual results will be announced Jan. 22, Safeco said.

Information from Bloomberg News is included in this report. Greg Heberlein's phone number is 206-464-2267. His e-mail address is: gheberlein@seattletimes.com.

The Seattle Times: Safeco's slumping profit (Chart not available electronically): Warning harms Safeco stock (Chart not available electronically)| |chart   

Document SETL000020090109dx1d00301
 

 

 Business; Financial Desk 
 Markets Nasdaq's 3-Day Win Streak Comes to End 

From Times Staff and Wire Reports
901 words
13 January 2001
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-4
English
 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company 

 It was three and out for technology investors Friday as the Nasdaq Stock Market failed to add to its three-day winning streak. 

 Still, market watchers were encouraged that the Nasdaq composite index ended down a meager 14.07 points, or 0.5%, at 2,626.50--its first loss after putting together three consecutive positive days for the first time since Sept. 1. 

 The mild loss allowed the tech-heavy index to close up 9.1% for the week after four straight weeks of declines. And for the third time this week, tech investors shrugged off warnings of slow sales from leaders in the sector--this time, computer giants Hewlett-Packard and Gateway. 

 "The market is showing some resilience," said Alan Skrainka, chief market strategist at Edward Jones. "The market could have been down a lot more, especially in the wake of the Gateway and Hewlett-Packard disappointments." 

 Even more telling: Winners outnumbered losers on Nasdaq by a solid 8-5 margin on heavy volume of 2.5 billion shares. 

 Investors in bonds and blue-chip stocks weren't as fortunate, however. Prices of both tumbled as the latest economic data on retail sales and inflation showed the economy was stronger than expected, reducing the betting among investors that the Federal Reserve will be in a rush to cut interest rates again. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 84.17 points, or 0.8%, to 10,525.38, off 1.3% for the week for its third down week in a row. It was dragged lower by some "old-economy" companies, interest-rate-sensitive financials and selected tech companies such as software giant Microsoft, which lost $1.50 to $53.50. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 8.50 points, or 0.6%, to 1,318.32, finishing the week up 1.6%. Winners barely outnumbered losers on the New York Stock Exchange amid active trading. 

 Reports on retail sales and the producer price index, which measures inflation at the wholesale level, showed the economy may still be growing at a decent clip, raising expectations the Fed might not be as vigorous in lowering rates again to keep the economy from slowing down too much. 

 "Both were stronger than expected. That's going to make it tough for the Fed to consider anything more than a [quarter of a percentage point] cut at the January 30-31 meetings," said Barry Hyman, chief investment strategist at Weatherly Securities. 

 Earlier this month, the Fed unexpectedly cut interest rates by half a percentage point. Its policy-setting group, the Federal Open Market Committee, meets at the end of January. 

 The producer price index was unchanged for December versus a consensus forecast for a gain of 0.1%. But the core PPI, which excludes volatile food and energy prices, rose a higher-than-expected 0.3%. 

 Retail sales were less bleak in December than expected, posting a 0.1% rise. Excluding automobiles, sales were unchanged. 

 Evidence of economic strength wreaked havoc in the bond market, where prices plunged as yields rose sharply. 

 The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note jumped to 5.24% from Thursday's close of 5.11%. The yield on the one-year Treasury note climbed to 4.96% from 4.85% Thursday. 

 The dollar, however, surged to 17-month highs against the Japanese yen and rose slightly against the euro, as the economic data took the edge off some investors' concerns about the U.S. economic slowdown. 

 The bulk of the selling in high-tech stocks was limited to the individual stocks of HP and Gateway and related companies in the software and computer industries. 

 Gateway fell $1.80 to $21.10 after it reported late Thursday profit that were less than one-third the expected level and also warned of lower sales ahead. HP, a Dow 30 stock, was off $1.69 at $30.69 after saying it expects earnings will fall short of expectations, blaming the economic weakness and customer demand. 

 Among software companies, Ariba, which makes applications used in e-commerce, plunged $8.19 to $35.19--a 19% loss--after the company said it expects sales growth to slow. 

 But those losses were counterbalanced by pockets of strength in telecom equipment and fiber-optics firms, including Qualcomm, which gained $1.25 to $71.81. 

 Another big tech gainer was online advertising firm DoubleClick, which climbed $3.50 to $14.75 after the company released better-than-expected results for the fourth quarter. 

 Dow losers besides Microsoft included United Technologies, which lost $3.19 to $70.69 after a recent run-up, and Procter & Gamble, off $2.44 to $70.31. P&G is down 8% since issuing a profit warning Monday. 

 Some traders locked in profits ahead of the long holiday weekend. U.S. financial and commodities markets will be closed Monday in observance of Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthday. 

 "You had three upside days on Nasdaq and traders always get a little nervous when they have profits, particularly if you have a three-day weekend," said Al Kugel, senior investment strategist at Stein Roe & Farnham. 

 * 

 Reuters and Bloomberg News were used in compiling this report. 

 Market Roundup, C5-6 

 GRAPHIC-CHART: Daily Diary: Friday, Jan. 12, 2001; 

Document latm000020010712dx1d003ya
 

 

 US stocks lower after seesaw session ATTENTION - UPDATES with closing prices /// 

522 words
12 January 2001
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2001) 

 NEW YORK, Jan 12 (AFP) - Stocks closed lower Friday after a seesaw session in the wake of unexpectedly strong US economic data that surprised Wall Street. 

 The Dow Jones industrials slid 84.17 points (0.79 percent) to 10,525.38 and the Nasdaq fell 14.07 points (0.53 percent) to 2,626.50. 

 The Standard and Poor's 500 dipped 8.27 points (0.62 percent) to close at 1,318.55. 

 The US producer price index last month was unchanged, although the core rate rose a fairly hefty 0.3 percent. And retail sales were up 0.1 percent despite expectations of a slump. 

 Bond dealers said the retail sales data caused bonds to post sharp losses because it is one of the last pieces of consumer data that the Federal will receive before its January 30 meeting, and it appears to indicate that consumer activity is more robust than had previously been believed. 

 They noted that many market players are hoping for yet another half-point reduction later this month -- but signs of consumer health could thwart such a move. 

 On the bond market, the yield on the 10-year Treasury bond jumped to 5.246 percent from 5.114 percent Thursday and on the 30-year bond to 5.627 percent against 5.536 percent. The rise in yields reflects a drop in bond prices. 

 Technology stocks ended a run of three straight winning sessions, and were hurt by disappointing earnings from Gateway and a profitwarning from Hewlett-Packard. 

 "After three days of gains, with some pretty nice moves from second-tier stocks, people decided not to go long over the holiday weekend," said Matt Johnson, market strategist at Thomas Weisel Partners. 

 Markets will be closed Monday for the Martin Luther King holiday 

 Micron Technology rose 7/16 to 41-7/16 on a favorable brokerage report. 

 KLA-Tencor Corp fell 2-7/8 to 39-15/16, after a downgrade by Wells Fargo. 

 Intel slipped 1-1/4 to 32-1/8, and AMD declined 3/8 to 17-13/16. Texas Instruments lost 1-3/4 to 47-7/8, with Applied Materials closing unchanged at 46-3/8. 

 Among Internet issues, ExciteAtHome rose 1 to 8-23/32, after ATT said it raised its stake in the company to 38 percent from 23 percent. 

 Yahoo closed 11/16 higher at 26-9/16, while AOL finished down 76 cents to 46.47 dollars. 

 In the PC sector, Hewlett-Packard fell 1-11/16 to 30-11/16, after the company warned that the upcoming first half will prove even tougher than expected, dealers said. 

 Gateway fell 1.80 dollars to 21.10 after its fourth quarter results showed sales down. 

 IBM declined 1/8 to 93-13/16, and Dell lost 11/16 to 22-1/8. 

 Elsewhere, Microsoft slipped 1-1/2 to 53-1/2, after the Department of Justice said a US appeals court should uphold the District Court's ruling to split Microsoft in two. 

 bur-rl/mk 

Document afpr000020010709dx1c00mm4
 

 

 $A slips but it's `not all gloom'. 

 By REBECCA HOLMES and MEREDITH BOOTH. 
399 words
12 January 2001
Adelaide Advertiser
ADVTSR
32
English
(c) 2001 Advertiser Newspapers Limited

 AUSTRALIAN dollar selling against Japan's yen has pushed the currency almost US2c lower to US55.52 since Tuesday. But analysts said the fall was a "good thing" as overextended currency dealers pulled back their positions. Macquarie Bank corporate dealer Kevin Tuckey said about $A2,000,000 had been sold against Japanese yen in the past two days indicating that Japanese mobile giant NTT DoCoMo may be unwinding its position in buying C&W Optus' mobile assets. 

 "It's gone up US6.5c in six-and-a-half weeks and unless we break US54.5c I don't think it's all doom and gloom. Just a healthy retracement," said Macquarie Bank corporate dealer Kevin Tuckey. 

 A Bank One foreign exchange dealer said repatriation of Japanese funds offshore was behind $A selling. 

 Meanwhile, the shadow of gloom over Australia's share market darkened as the all ordinaries posted its fourth consecutive loss. 

 The benchmark index slipped a further 12.1 points to 3172.4, dragged lower by selling in resources and key industrials including Lend Lease, Brambles and larger banks. 

 Succumbing to profit-taking, NAB lost 16c to $28.90 and CBA fell 20c to $30.40, while Westpac and ANZ were unchanged. Bucking the trend were St George, up 22c to $14.10, and some smaller banks. 

 Macquarie Day Cutten client adviser Lynton Sallis said stocks in the resources sector were broadly weaker after MIM issued a profit-warning. 

 Shares in the Brisbane-based base metal company topped turnover at 54 million and fell 10c to 94c, while Rio Tinto lost 56c to $28.89, BHP 15c to $19.08, and WMC 13c to $7.17. 

 Elsewhere, issues in share registry company Computershare tumbled 54c to $7.20. In answering an ASX query the company said it was "not aware of any information that could explain the recent trading in the securities of the company". 

 "All operations are continuing to perform in line with expectations," the company said. 

 In the US, overnight rallies in tech stocks lifted the Nasdaq 83 points to 2524, while the Dow squeezed out a 32-point increase to 10604. 

 In Japan, Tokyo stocks slumped to a 27-month low as investors dumped shares including NTT DoCoMo and Toyota Motor. The Nikkei fell 231 points to 13,201.07. 

Document advtsr0020010709dx1c00orf
 

Newscast: Business news and stock report   

505 words
12 January 2001
CBS News: Morning News
CBSM
English
(c) Copyright 2001, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

JULIE CHEN, anchor:   

On Wall Street, tech stocks soared.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Dow Jones Industrials   

10,609.55 up 5.28   

Volume: 1,411,210,000   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

CHEN: But the blue chips made only modest gains. The Dow climbed just 5 points, finishing at 10,609.   

(Graphic on screen)   

NASDAQ   

2,640.57 up 116.39   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

CHEN: The NASDAQ ended at 2,640, up 116.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Tokyo Nikkei Average   

13,347.74 up 146.67   

Change: up 1.11%   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

CHEN: In Tokyo, the Nikkei Index gained 1 percent overnight.   

On the CBS MarketWatch, some earnings warnings and signs of a slowing economy. Alexis Christoforous has details.   

ALEXIS CHRISTOFOROUS reporting:   

The NASDAQ made it three winning days in row, something we haven't seen since Labor Day. Tech stocks took off at the open and never looked back. But the blue chips had a choppy day of trading.   

Investors yawned at  Yahoo!.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Yahoo! -14.8% 26.00 -4.50   

CHRISTOFOROUS: The company's sales and profit warning had little effect on the overall market, although investors did push shares of  Yahoo! down about 15 percent, closing at $26 a share.   

The slowdown in consumer spending is hitting two big tech companies right in the wallet. After the closing bell,  Hewlett-Packard and Gateway both warned that profits and sales in their first quarter will be below expectations. The computer makers blame a slowdown in spending by consumers and businesses. Gateway will also slash 10 percent of its work force, or about 2,100 jobs to cut costs.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Ariba +0.1%   

43.44 +0.06   

CHRISTOFOROUS: The earnings parade marched on after the markets closed. Ariba, the B-2-B e-commerce company, posted profit of 5 cents a share, 3 cents better than expected; the stock up slightly in after-hours trading.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Rambus -10.6%   

43.69 -5.20   

CHRISTOFOROUS: The chip giant  Rambus said profit fell a penny shy of expectations. That stock getting hammered in after-hours trading.   

(Graphic on screen)   

DoubleClick +15.0%   

12.94 +1.69   

CHRISTOFOROUS: And the online advertising company DoubleClick said it broke even in its fourth quarter, better than the expected loss the Street was bracing for. DoubleClick up nicely in after-hours trading.   

And three of the world's biggest computer companies are teaming up to create a new voting system.  Unisys,  Dell Computer and  Microsoft will work together to develop an electronic voting system to prevent the kind of ballot fiasco we had with the presidential election. At the NASDAQ Marketsite, I'm Alexis Christoforous, cbs.marketwatch.com   

CHEN: For the latest on the markets. Click on cbs.marketwatch.com.   

Straight ahead on the morning news, your weekend weather forecast.   

And in sports, for Tiger Woods, a frustrating beginning to the new year. But, hey, it's not all bad. He's in Hawaii in January.   

(Announcements)   

Document CBSM000020070818dx1c003mz
 

 

 Europe Stocks Midday - Up on Nasdaq rally led by tech sector. 

1,088 words
12 January 2001
12:16
Futures World News
FWN
English
(c) Distributed via COMTEX News.

 Jan 12, 2001 (FWN Financial via COMTEX) - By BridgeNews 

 London-Jan. 12-European stocks rose Friday mid-day, boosted by gains in technology, media and telecommunications stocks after the U.S. Nasdaq's rally overnight. At 1206 GMT, the FTSE Eurotop 100 Index was up 19.39 points, or 0.56%, to 3471.44. 


		 *			 *			 *




At 1206 GMT (figures rounded):



-The U.K.'s FTSE-100 index was up 33.60 points at 6148.50 (+0.55%)



-Germany's Xetra DAX-30 was up 79.38 points at 6544.59 (+1.23%)



-France's CAC-40 was up 90.20 points at 5792.98 (+1.58%)



-Italy's Mibtel was up 221 points at 30303 (+0.73%)



-The Netherlands' AEX was up 3.64 points at 640.89 (+0.57%)



UNITED KINGDOM



Technology and telecommunication stocks staged a rally Friday, dragging the FTSE 100 index up 0.7% in morning trade.



Leading technology indices higher were sector stalwarts such as software group Logica, up 8.0% at 16.20 sterling; software search group Autonomy, last up 7.0% at 19.93 sterling; and semiconductor designer ARM Holdings, last up 5.3% at 547.0 pence.



Overall, the FTSE techMARK 100 index was up 3.5%, or 85.7 points, at 2555.8 points.



Dealers believe that the market has stopped selling off on negative news, and the focus now is better prospects in the second half of the year.



South African software group DiData was last up 6.3% at 424.0 pence, seemingly unaffected by a downgrade from UBS Warburg. The Swiss investment bank slashed its rating to Hold from Buy in response to U.S. company Cisco System's more cautionary stance on business.



Retail continued to be in the spotlight as several more companies came out with their January trading statements.



J Sainsbury PLC, the U.K.'s second-largest food retailer, Friday said it was satisfied with the progress it is making in turning around its fortunes and stabilizing its profits, despite sluggish sales durin. the latest quarter. Investors welcomed the comments, and the supermarket chain was last up 4.4% at 364.5 pence.



Faring less well was high-street natural cosmetics group The Body Shop, whose shares lost over a quarter of their value after the group issued a profit warning.



FRANCE



The CAC-40 index advanced Friday morning, lifted by strong gains in technology, media and telecoms shares after the Nasdaq's 4% rally overnight.



Index bellwether France Telecom SA led the pack in percentage terms, up 6.2% at 91.30 euros. By mid-day, the French operator's shares had erased almost all of their losses for the week, which had been linked to concerns about its planned initial public offering of wireless unit Orange.



Telecoms equipment maker Alcatel SA also put in a strong showing, climbing 5.1% to 65.80 euros. Alcatel announced Friday that it had won a turnkey contract worth "several hundred million U.S. dollars" to help build a transatlantic submarine network with U.K.-based communications group Cable & Wireless PLC. Sources said the deal represents at least $500 million in revenues for the French group.



Semiconductor maker STMicroelectronics NV was also among the morning's top performers, adding 6.1% to 46.00 euros in the wake of a strong performance by U.S. chip shares overnight. The Philadelphia Semiconductor Index rose 6% Thursday, despite a number of bearish analyst comments about sector revenues in the first half.



Vivendi Universal advanced as well, adding 4.3% to 72.10 euros. Market speculation persists that the group is poised to buy roughly 80% of U.K. online directory Saoot.com PLC it does not already own, perhaps with the help of proceeds from the imminent sale of its 55% stake in Internet service provider, AOL France.



Elsewhere, banking shares were higher, with Societe Generale climbing 3.2% to 74.40 euros and rival BNP Paribas up 2.3% at 101.30 euros. Even Credit Lyonnais, the French bank privatized in 1999, advanced 2.9% to 41.06 euros-brushing off a report in The Economist magazine that its U.S. banking license may be suspended as punishment for violations of U.S. law in the 1990s.



GERMANY



German shares were higher in mixed trade around midday as TMT issues benefited from overnight Nasdaq gains. At 1100 GMT, Germany's DAX-30 index rose 1% to 6527.04.



Sentiment for TMT issues received a further boost from positive sentiment "as the Nasdaq is soaring to the 3,000-points level," one dealer said.



"The market is stabilizing now and that's good," the dealer added, commenting on the mixed picture of the DAX around midday.



With the exception of SAP AG, which was down 2.8% to 175.30 euros on profit-taking, technology issues were higher, with the sharpest gains in IT specialist Epcos AG, which rose 7% to 98.80 euros. Deutsche Telekom AG rose 5.8% to 36.78 euros and electronics firm Siemens AG added 3.10% to 146.30 euros.



Apart from Munich Re AG, up 1.2% to 364.24 euros, financials traded lower. Deutsche Bank AG fell 0.3% to 93.96 euros and Dresdner Bank AG gave up 0.8% to 46.34 euros. Commerzbank fell 0.5% to 31.93 euros, reversing earlier gains on the back of remarks by its CEO late last night that 2000 will be the bank's best year in term1 of net profit.



DaimlerChrysler AG fell 1.7% to 44.22 euros, after hitting a low of 43.27 euros in early morning trade as Bank of America placed between two and 10 million shares in the troubled carmaker, dealers said. Media reports that DaimlerChrysler's 2000 dividend will not reach the 2.35 euros distributed in 1999 put further pressure on the stock.



Pharmaceutical stock Schering AG rose 1.7% to 56.20 euros, reversing strong gains yesterday on the back of a rumor that Switzerland's Roche AG is interested in buying the German firm, which is a likely takeover target as it lacks a major shareholder. Fellow chemical issue BASF rose 0.3% to 46.50 euros and Bayer AG added 1.6% to 52.15 euros.



ITALY



Italian shares were higher midday, boosted by gains in Internet and telecommunications-related stocks as well as insurance companies.



(C) Copyright 2001 FWN



.


Document fwn0000020010712dx1c002ua
 

 

Business
Techs give Nasdaq a win streak; Index up for 3 straight days; some backsliding after hours

Seattle Times news services
340 words
12 January 2001
The Seattle Times
SETL
Fourth
D6
English
Copyright 2001, The Seattle Times Company  All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

NEW YORK --Technology stocks soared yesterday, lifting blue chips more modestly and giving the Nasdaq composite index its first three-day winning streak since Labor Day.

However, a profit warning from Hewlett-Packard and lower-than-expected Gateway earnings released after the market's close erased some of those gains in extended trading.

Still, analysts were pleased with the regular session's advances, particularly in the battered tech sector.

"It's not a full-blown green light to recovery, but this is a good sign," said Brian Belski, fundamental market strategist for US Bancorp Piper Jaffray. "It would be naive to think there's not going to be some downward surprise from earnings as we get into the reporting season, but I think investors are starting to think with a longer-term, more disciplined approach to investing."

The Nasdaq rose 116.39 points to 2,640.57, extending a rally that began Tuesday.

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 5.28 to 10,609.55 after spending most of the day in negative territory.

Tech stocks turned in a strong performance across the board in regular trading, but some of those issues fell after the Gateway and Hewlett-Packard announcements.

Microsoft, one of the 30 Dow-industrial components, fell $1 to $54 in after-hours trading, after rising $2.13 to $55 in regular trading.

Boeing, another Northwest stock in the Dow industrials, sank $1.25 to $59.13.

Getty Images shares sank $8.63, or 24 percent, to $27.50 after the largest provider of stock visuals for advertisers and other media was downgraded from "strong buy" to "buy" by Thomas Weisel Partners analyst Keith Gay. The market for the Seattle company's images has become more challenging, Gay said in a report, citing recent magazine-advertising trends and feedback within the industry.

Information from The Associated Press and Bloomberg News is included in this report.

Document SETL000020090109dx1c002yq
 

 

Business
TSE 300 moves up by 204.59; Bouchard's resignation boosts loonie  

Gillian Livingston  
The Canadian Press
585 words
12 January 2001
The Hamilton Spectator
HMSP
Final
B04
English
Copyright (c) 2001 The Hamilton Spectator.  

Toronto -- Investors welcomed Nortel's confirmation yesterday its plans to trim its worldwide, full-time workforce by 4,000 over the next few months -- including about 830 in Ottawa and 170 in the Toronto area -- in a streamlining of operations.  

In New York, Nortel gained $2.13 US to close at $34.06 as 34 million shares traded. Technology shares were also the winner south of the border, lifting blue chips more modestly and giving the Nasdaq composite index its first three-day winning streak since Labour Day.  

However, a profit warning from Hewlett-Packard and lower-than-expected Gateway earnings released after the market's close erased some of those gains in extended trading.  

The Nasdaq rose 116.39 to 2,640.57, extending a rally that began Tuesday.  

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 5.28 at 10,609.55 after spending most of the day in negative territory. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 gained 13.55 to reach 1,326.82.  

"It's not a full-blown green light to recovery, but this is a good sign," said Brian Belski, fundamental market strategist for US Bancorp Piper Jaffray.  

"It would be naive to think there's not going to be some downward surprise from earnings as we get into the reporting season, but I think investors are starting to think with a longer-term, more disciplined approach to investing."  

In Toronto, technology shares gained. Celestica was up $9.45 to $89.55, Ballard Power rose $12.30 to $101.60 and Research In Motion added $8.10 to $85.90.  

Ten of 14 stock groups rose, including consumer products up 2.29 per cent and transportation up 1.43 per cent. The biggest decliner was the metals and minerals group, off 2.72 per cent.  

Advancers outnumbered decliners 599 to 420 with 245 unchanged in trading of 171 million shares valued at $3.7 billion. The TSE 100 rose 13.15 to 544.26.  

The Canadian dollar closed at 66.91 US yesterday, up 0.34 of a cent from Wednesday. News of Quebec Premier Lucien Bouchard's resignation gave the Canadian dollar a moderate nudge upward on currency markets.  

The western-based Canadian Venture Exchange gained 35.09 points to 2,981.07 as its oil and gas and technology indexes rose 1.3 per cent.  

In New York, although Wall Street maintains an anxious focus on earnings, many analysts believe market conditions are improving overall.  

"Clearly in the last several days, the Nasdaq has done well. We're also seeing improving breadth, the number of stocks advancing versus those declining," said Richard Cripps, chief market strategist for Legg Mason of Baltimore.  

Tech stocks turned in a strong performance across the board in regular trading, but some of those issues fell in after-market trading after Gateway's earnings missed analyst expectations and Hewlett-Packard lowered its earnings estimates. Hewlett-Packard tumbled $1.38 to $31 US, wiping out its 63-cent gain during the day, and Gateway fell $2.96 to $20, completely erasing its regular session gain.  

Microsoft fell $1 to $54 in late trading, after rising $2.13 to $55 in regular trading. PC maker Dell fell $1 to $21.81 after a $1.50 gain in the regular session.  

Photo: Richard Drew, the Associated Press | The Nasdaq seems to be rallying but 'earnings issues' are worrying analysts.  

Document HMSP000020051121dx1c002jc
 

 

 Business News From The Israeli Press Thursday 

348 words
11 January 2001
08:16
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 The government now forecasts economic growth of 1.5% to 3% in 2001, versus 5.9% in 2000, and will update its budget proposal and revenues projections accordingly, Ha'aretz reports. 

 Morgan Stanley expects the Bank of Israel to step up its discount rate reductions to 30-40 basis points in the next few months from the 20 basis point cuts that have prevailed in recent months, Globes reports. The investment bank forecasts 3% GDP growth in 2001, and inflation of 1.3%. 

 Level 8 (LVEL) is expected to issue a profit warning in the next few days, Globes reports. The company, which operates in the enterprise integration application space, has lost some 80% of its value in the past three months, Yediot Ahronot reports. 

 State-run Bezeq The Israel Telecommunication Corp. (C.BZQ) has renewed its efforts to rescind the structural separation from its subsidiaries that was imposed upon it, Maariv reports. CEO Ilan Biran says a separation of the subsidiaries' accounting will achieve the same objective that the structural separation was meant to attain. Biran says the current situation doesn't allow the company to offer customers comprehensive solutions, something that could hurt it in Israel's increasingly competitive communications market. 

 Medinol chief Kobi Richter has told a confidant that his family's stake in the company is likely to be sold to Boston Scientific (BSX) based on a company valuation of $3.9 billion, Maariv reports. 

 Israeli diamond merchant Lev Leviev has become the largest shareholder, at 33%, in the Camufuca diamond mine in Angola, and plans to invest $20 million in its development, newspapers report. The Leviev group says the mine has a potential of $2.5 billion, Leviev is already a partner in the Catoca mine in Angola, Ha'aretz reports. 

 The Histadrut labor federation is demanding a public sector wage increase of 30-35 billion shekels ($1=ILS4.1110) over the next three years, and is threatening to launch a public sector strike Wednesday if its wage demands aren't met, Ha'aretz reports. 

82026

Document dji0000020010711dx1b00525
 

 

Business
Barnes & Noble issues  profit warning 

Associated Press
37 words
10 January 2001
Kitchener-Waterloo Record
TKWR
Final
E05
English
Copyright (c) 2001 Kitchener-Waterloo Record.  

New York -- Its video game business is expected to earn six cents a share, well below the 33 cents estimated by analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial.  

Document TKWR000020060207dx1a0063u
 

 

 Digital Now Cuts 16 Jobs After Issuing  Profit Warning 

 By Jason Anders 
514 words
9 January 2001
22:44
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 WSJ.com 

 WASHINGTON -- Digital Now Inc., a maker of equipment that lets photography labs digitize photographs, has cut 16 jobs and restructured its business, just days after the company warned that it expected to report a loss for 2000. 

 The Vienna, Va., company also said founder and Chief Executive Stephen Giordano Sr. will step down from the helm of the company and will instead oversee Digital Now's marketing and sales efforts. Gary Mueller, now chief operating officer, will become chief executive. 

 The cuts, representing about 19% of the company's work force, are primarily in Digital Now's fledgling e-commerce operation. The company had planned to offer a wide variety of Internet-based services that photo labs could sell to customers. New e-commerce initiatives will now be put on hold so that the company can focus on its core digitization hardware business, Mr. Giordano said. 

 Digital Now said it has been hurt by an industry-wide slowness in adopting new digitization technologies. The company has installed its high-speed scanning systems in more than 180 large photo-processing centers around the world, though Mr. Giordano said sales were "dismal" during its fourth quarter. 

 "We had to refocus because the growth that we expected just wasn't there," he said. "The biggest reason for my new role is so that I can get out in the field and put some sales together." 

 On Jan. 3, the company issued a press release in Australia warning that it could report a loss of as much as four million Australian dollars (US$2.3 million), before interest, tax, depreciation, amortization and stock-based compensation. Earlier in the year, the company had said it expected to post a profit, on a similar basis, of more than A$9 million, though in November it said it would likely only break even. 

 The company said it had sales of about US$17 million for 2000, down from the US$20 million it predicted earlier. 

 Despite the company's Virginia base, Digital Now stock is traded on the Australian Stock Exchange -- a move made both to appease an Australian company that is one of Digital Now's largest investors and also because of lower barriers to entry than U.S. markets, the company said. On Tuesday, Digital Now shares closed around 33 Australian cents, down from the initial offering price of A$1.50 in March 2000. 

 Digital Now still expects to be profitable in the first quarter of 2001, Mr. Giordano said. He also said the company has been working on developing a new dry-developing technology that will allow customers to feed an undeveloped roll of film into a machine and, in less than a minute, begin selecting pictures on a screen to print or save to a CD-ROM. He said the company will demonstrate the technology to potential customers later this month. 

 Write to Jason Anders at jason.anders@wsj.com 

 Copyright (c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020010711dx19007qd
 

 

 MARKET TALK/Europe: Roundup Of Stocks, Mkt Activity 

1,000 words
9 January 2001
13:05
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 Call Us In London: 44-20-7842-9490 

 1303 GMT (Dow Jones) AMSTERDAM--Numico (N.NUM) clarifies trading statement date: Jan 22, after 1600 GMT. Numico had told Dow Jones earlier that the statement will include information about developments in 2000 and the US market. News has pushed up shares to up 3.3% at EUR48.60. (HDG) 

 GMT (Dow Jones) AMSTERDAM--Numico will issue its trading statement Feb. 22 after 1600 GMT. Numico had told Dow Jones earlier that the statement will include information about developments in 2000 and the US market. News has pushed up shares to up 3.3% at EUR48.60. (HDG) 

 1258 GMT (Dow Jones) COPENHAGEN--Nokia (NOK) stock skidding even lower, -16% to EUR37.85, with trading volumes near record highs of 32 million shares even before US markets open. Finnish rader says he'd be surprised if the stock hits EUR35.00, but no recovery seen off current levels. (XL) 

 1255 GMT (Dow Jones) MADRID--Merrill Lynch downgrade of Yahoo! (YHOO) will drag Terra Lycos (TRLY), +0.4% at EUR12.98, lower says technology analyst. Yahoo! seen reference for Terra Lycos in US. Terra Lycos has resistance seen at EUR13.05, support at EUR10. (CZH) 

 1253 GMT (Dow Jones) LONDON--UBS Warburg continues to favor defensives in its Pan-European equity picks. Sees upside for Aventis (AVE), BAE (U.BA), ENI (E) and Nestle (Z.NES). Sees secular growth with certainty from Alcatel (ALA), Adecco (ADO), RAS (I.RAS) and Vodafone (VOD). Also favors BNP Paribas (F.BNP), Royal Bank of Scotland (U.RBK), Telecom Italia (TI), Zurich Financial Services (Z.ZFS) on restructuring with credibility. Adds Lattice in utilities, removes Iberdrola (E.IBR) and switches into Castorama (F.CDI) and out of Munich Re (G.MUV). Replaces Marconi (MONI) with Tesco (U.TSC). (PBM) 

 1251 GMT (Dow Jones) ZURICH--Swiss private bankers Lombard Odier, in strategy note, expect a US soft landing, satisfactory European growth. After volatile start to New Year, "straight-and-narrow" earnings come to the fore. Sees year-end SMI at 8750 from 7950 now. (BAK) 

 1249 GMT (Dow Jones) FRANKFURT--SAP (SAP) rises 6.4% continuing Monday gains on strong 4Q data. Lehman Brothers analysts say expect "the stock to pop up by around 20%". Full Q4 details to be published Jan 23. Remains outperformer at EUR255-295. Project 2002 as SAP's financial rebound year. Analysts are watching growth levels in North America and possible success of new products and services. (DRS) 

 1246 GMT (Dow Jones) PARIS--CAC-40 seen drooping on Nokia (NOK) induced TMT sell-off. France Telecom (FTE) -5.4%, STMicroelectronics (STM) -1.7% and Bouygues (F.BOU) -2.5%. Alstom (ALS) now leading gainers, +2.7% on technical rebound following Monday's sharp fall on core shareholders' plans to divest. Index down 1.4% at 5653. Support seen at 5610. (MJK) 

 1241 GMT (Dow Jones) PARIS--Alcatel (ALA) shares turn sharply down as Nokia (NOK) sales disappoint market. Stock down 1.7% at EUR60.40, after reaching EUR64.25 earlier. Alcatel had sales target of 20 million mobile handsets in 2000. Support around EUR59.70. France Telecom (FTE) also hit by Nokia (NOK) news, down 5.4% at EUR85.85. (VLV) 

 1228 GMT (Dow Jones) OSLO--Rug yanked out from under StepStone (Y.SSO) shares after rare "sell" recommendation recently from a Norwegian sell-side institution. Shares continue to tumble to new low at NOK11.50, down 14%, and traders hard-pressed to call a bottom to slide. (CLL) 

 1224 GMT (Dow Jones) AMSTERDAM--AEX off +0.2% at 632.26 points, down from a 0.5% rise before Nokia (NOK) released worse-than-expected figures. KPN (KPN) -0.3% and Philips (PHG) flat after both erased early gains on the news. Trader says Philips should rebound somewhat. (TBS) 

 1221 GMT (Dow Jones) MADRID--IBEX-35 -1% at 9529.20 with heavyweight Telefonica (TEF) -0.5% at EUR18.68. Analyst sees market overreacting to Nokia's (NOK) disappointing sales figures. IBEX-35 has support at 9450, but could drop to 9200 if it falls through that level. (CZH) 

 1217 GMT (Dow Jones) LONDON--Williams de Broe analyst Andrew Darke rates Chubb (U.CHU), demerged from Williams (U.WLM) last November, a buy as last month's drop in price after profit warning, excessive. Says, though downturn in post-Olympic Australia deeper than thought, underlying business sound. EPS cut by 8% to 10 pence 2001; shares having plummeted 40%. Target 185 pence. Stock at 163.25 pence, up 4.7%. (MSA) 

 GMT (Dow Jones) PARIS--Lehman Brothers downgrades Sidel (F.SDL) to neutral from buy as company's meager 1.6% rise in orderbook casts doubt over 2001 growth outlook. With a ROC employed of roughly 20% Sidel no longer deserves a significant premium rating. Cuts share price target to EUR40 from EUR70. Shares down 0.4% at EUR33.65. (MJK) 

 1131 GMT (Dow Jones) ZURICH--Swiss tech issues are off their highs after Nokia's (NOK) disappointing phone sales report. Swisscom (Z.SCM) down 0.1% at CHF426, Kudelski (Z.KUD) off 3.6% at CHF1,650, Ascom (Z.ASC) down 1.9% at CHF106.25. Nasdaq future also swings lower. Puts dent in budding optimism. Broader Swiss market's mixed, trendless. (BAK) 

 1128 GMT (Dow Jones) PARIS--Lafarge (F.LAF) upgraded to buy from outperform, says Deutche Bank, with a EUR133 target on the back of Blue Circle (U.BCI) acquisition, called "strategic success". Deutsche Bank is positive on cement sector in general, citing Switzerland's Holderbank (Z.HOL) as another good buy. Lafarge up 0.8% at EUR98.75. (MMR) 


1126 GMT (Dow Jones) VIENNA --Libro (R.LIB) up 1.1% at EUR14.15, seen
rebounding from all-time-low, after chief executive Andre Rettberg
brushed off investors' worries about Libro's heavy spending on its
Internet unit lion.cc. (KOM)
DOW JONES NEWS  01-09-01



08:05 AM


Document dj00000020010711dx1902067
 

 

 Business; Financial Desk 
 Markets Stocks Finish Lower Despite Bargain Hunting in Last Hour 

From Associated Press
711 words
9 January 2001
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-4
English
 Copyright 2001 / The Times Mirror Company 

 Bargain hunters saved the market from another big tech sell-off Monday, rescuing the Dow Jones industrials and the Nasdaq composite index from losses of more than 100 points each in the last hour of trading. 

 Major indexes still finished lower, as Wall Street waits to see how much of a negative effect the slowing economy has had on corporate earnings. 

 The Dow closed down 40.66 points, or 0.4%, at 10,621.35. Nasdaq fell 11.73 points, or 0.5%, to 2,395.92 and the Standard & Poor's 500 index ended down 2.49 points, or 0.2%, at 1,295.86. 

 Discounted prices prompted investors to do some last-minute buying Monday. 

 "Looks like the sellers ran out of gas," said Arthur Hogan, chief market analyst for Jefferies & Co. "It's hard to say who flipped on the 'buy' sign . . . but we'll take it." 

 In Nasdaq's case, the rally began after the index dipped below 2,300. The market closed below that level Jan. 2 for the first time since March 1999. 

 With stocks continuing their slide despite last week's interest rate cut by the Federal Reserve, investors were anxiously looking for a bottom. Nasdaq has already lost 3% this year, following last year's painful 39% slide. 

 Hogan said the market might be close to turning around, and theorized that upcoming earnings reports might not be as bad as expected, which could mean a rally in deeply depressed stocks. 

 Since the new year began, the market has continued to fall on Wall Street's fears about waning profits and the slowing economy. The one exception was Wednesday, when the Dow and Nasdaq soared more than 300 points each after the Fed's rate cut. But investors resumed selling as it sank in that it will take time for earnings and the economy to benefit from lower interest rates. 

 Still, stocks might rally if upcoming earnings beat analysts' expectations or if the market can shake off disappointing results, said Ricky Harrington, technical analyst for Wachovia Securities in Charlotte, N.C. 

 After nearly five months on a downturn, "that could be a key change in character in the market," Harrington said. 

 The first big day of tech earnings comes Wednesday when Yahoo and Motorola are due to report results. On Monday, investors seemed guarded, sending Yahoo skidding $1.31 to $27.19. But Motorola, which had fallen earlier, closed up 56 cents at $21.75. 

 Before turning into bargain hunters, investors directed their ire at technology in general, because the sector stands to have the weakest profits. 

 Dell Computer recovered late in the day, picking up 13 cents to close at $19.13. Earlier, Bear Stearns lowered its earnings estimates for the company. IBM, a Dow stock, fell 44 cents to $93.56 after losing more than $2 earlier in the session. 

 Companies that supply the PC industry also were hurt, but rebounded somewhat. Microsoft lost 19 cents to finish at $48.94, while Intel was down 13 cents at $31.94. Both are Dow components. 

 Blue-chip advances were spread across sectors with no clear leader. Coca-Cola rose 94 cents to $58.63, and Procter & Gamble climbed $1.63 to $76.56. P&G issued a profit warning after regular trading ended. 

 Alcoa, another Dow component, rose 50 cents to $33.63 after posting better-than-expected earnings. And Philip Morris, the industrial average's best-performing stock last year, jumped $1.94 to $42.06 as investors sought out so-called defensive stocks, which tend to perform well even during an economic slowdown. 

 But shares of retailers, many of which reported they had the bleakest holiday shopping season in years, were down. Best Buy fell sharply, down $2.38 at $37.56, and Abercrombie & Fitch slid $1.75 to $20.56. 

 Advancing issues outnumbered decliners 13 to 11 on the New York Stock Exchange, where trading was active. Losers held an 11-8 edge over winners on Nasdaq, where 1.8 billion shares changed hands. 

 * 

 Market Roundup, C14-15 

 GRAPHIC-CHART: Daily Chart: Monday, Jan. 8, 2001, Los Angeles Times; 

Document latm000020010712dx19001iq
 

 

 Out Front 
 Valley of the Mudslingers Benchmark Capital went from Silicon Valley's favorite son to its whipping boy. 

 BY Luisa Kroll 
445 words
8 January 2001
Forbes
FB
060
English
 Copyright 2001 Forbes Inc. 

 Heard the joke about Dante touring hell? He and Virgil pass by a pit of boiling lava, where demons are pushing screaming souls back into the flaming goo with pitchforks. They pass another pit full of the damned, but no demons herding them. Dante asks, "How come no guards?" Virgil replies: "They're Russians. As soon as one climbs out, his comrades pull him back in." 

 The same might be said of Sand Hill Road, in Menlo Park, Calif., home to the toniest--and cattiest--venture capitalists. In this case the one being pulled back in is Benchmark Capital, one of the most envied firms in Silicon Valley. Formed in 1995, it gained fame by putting money into Ebay and big winners like Ariba and HandSpring. 

 Benchmark is still the talk of the town. But the talk isn't very nice. The latest whispering: Partners aren't getting along; they're dumping their own money into companies to salvage them; they asked investors to fork over $200 million for troubled companies. 

 Benchmark insists none of this is true. But that hasn't stopped rumors that it sent a letter to limited partners warning that its $175 million third fund, which closed in December 1998 and invested mostly in Weblettes, would liquidate without a profit. Several vcs claim they saw the letter; none can produce it. "It's such a fantastical rumor. Yet, people I respect have called me assuming the letter exists," says Eric Doppstadt, director of private equity at the Ford Foundation, a Benchmark investor. "If they did put out such a letter, the partners would have to have their heads examined. Why would they admit to such a thing, especially in writing?" Indeed. "The whole idea is ludicrous," says Kevin Harvey, general partner at Benchmark. 

 Now for the truth. Benchmark did put out a letter a year ago asking investors in its December 1998 fund to chip in 10% more. It had sent out similar requests for two earlier funds; all three times investors readily agreed. While that sort of pitch letter is unusual, it's more an indication of poor forecasting than lousy returns. It's too soon to know what its performance will be. Only one company, 1-800-Flowers, has gone public, and another, Living.com, has folded. Harvey insists the third fund has just as much chance of producing good returns as any around. 

 It may yet blow up. But if it does, lots of other funds--perhaps run by those gloating most--will fall hard, too. 

Document fb00000020010711dx180006f
 

 Recession fears as US print issues warnings 

504 words
8 January 2001
Printing World
PRIWOR
12
English
 (Copyright 2001) 

 By Alex Grant 

 As US factory output slumped to its lowest level in nine years, the last days of 2000 were marked by a string of unseasonal profits warnings from US companies. 

 RR Donnelley, the world's second largest printing group, has cut its full-year profit forecast from $2.30 to nearer $2.15 per share. Higher than expected overheads and a drop in profits at its Mexican, logistics and direct mail operations are blamed, although longer run printing has proved better. The results are expected out on January 31. 

 The warning has prompted RR Donnelley to resume its share buy back programme, setting aside $165m. "We are aggressively addressing our short term issues and our long term outlook remains positive," says chief executive William Davis. 

 But there are still worries about over-capacity as the US begins to look like it could be entering a recession year. Just before Christmas, printing and office supplies group Champion International announced a 30% fall in annual profits to $2.1m. Although print sales had grown slightly, "cost containment" is now on the company's mind. 

 At the same time International Paper, the world's largest paper group, has cut its profits forecast much more dramatically, from 44 cents to 30 cents per share, because of continued over-capacity and a $40m rise in energy costs. But IP's share price has stayed up, ironically, and paper prices have been stable in recent months with only coated freesheet papers showing a price fall of about $50 a ton in the last six months. 

 IP's warning follows similar statements from Mead, which has halved its profits forecast to just 15-20 cents a share and has prompted fears that the two-year recovery in the paper industry may be faltering. Analysts also see paper stocks as a bellwether of economic fortunes and take profit warnings from IP and others as a clear sign that the US economy is slowing down faster than expected. 

 IP is responding by cutting a further 100,000 tons of capacity, and raising its disposal target from $3bn to $5bn. 

 Nor are printing equipment suppliers immune. Ctp manufacturer Presstek, which has seen its share price slide from nearly 20 cents to 10 cents since October, has rushed out a bullish market statement, saying it was seeing pleasing demand for its new Dimension ctp products, but is making no predictions about its annual results, due out in late February. 

 Master Graphics has got the go-ahead from creditors to drastically scale back its printing operations. The troubled printing group, which filed for Chapter 11 protection from creditors last July, is selling off 12 of its 23 divisions. The sell-off is subject to shareholder approval but should be rubber stamped at a hearing on January 25. A new chief executive, to replace interim ceo Michael Bemis, should be appointed within the next few weeks. 

 IN BRIEF * US paper fortunes falter * Share warnings issued * Over-capacity fears 

Document priwor0020010712dx1800018
 

 

 US retailers see cold December sales. 

281 words
6 January 2001
Channelnewsasia
CNEWAS
English
(c) 2001 MediaCorp News Pte Ltd. All Rights Reserved

 A slowing US economy and severe winter storms in December dampened holiday same-store sales growth for American retailers. 

 Many companies are now warning that they would not meet profit forecasts. 

 In the latest sign of an economic cooling, weak sales hit all retail segments. 

 And this came just one day after the US central bank made a surprise interest rates cut amid growing concern about falling consumer confidence. 

 According to a Salomon Smith Barney index of data, December same-store sales went up half a percent which matches the smallest increase since March 1995. 

 In December of 1999, same-store sales were up 6.2 percent, powered by spending to prepare for the year 2000. 

 This time, the holiday data finished off a year of lacklustre sales which first showed signs of slowing in May. 

 Even the latest rate cut is not expected to immediately translate into higher sales and profits as lower interest rates on credit cards and home mortgages need time to filter down to consumers. 

 December sales were also affected by ice and snow storms that made many stay home instead of heading to stores and malls in the South, Midwest and Northeast of US. 

 These shortfalls in sales are significant because November and December retail typically account for about 25 percent of a company's annual sales. 

 Retailers that issued earnings warnings included discounters Ross Stores and Dollar Tree Stores, casual apparel retailer Gap, women's apparel seller AnnTaylor Stores and upscale jeweller Tiffany & Company. 

 No retailer was immune to the decline, not even discount giants like Wal-Mart Stores and Target, which both reported lower than expected sales. 

Document cnewas0020010710dx16001ux
 

 

 Investors flee German technology stocks 

390 words
5 January 2001
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2001) 

 FRANKFURT, Jan 5 (AFP) - Investors fled German technology stocks as profit warnings pounded sentiment in the first week of 2001 despite a cut in US interest rates, experts said. 

 Over the week, the DAX index of 30 top stocks in Frankfurt dropped 51.3 points, or 0.7 percent, to close the week at 6,382.31. 

 But the technology-laden NEMAX 50 index of key "new economy" shares slumped 528.76 points, or 18.4 percent, over the same period to finish on Friday at 2,340.25 points. 

 The NEMAX plunge was accelerated Tuesday by bad news from the United States but mostly also by a warning of poor profits ahead from star company Intershop, which lost 70 percent of its value that day. 

 By Wednesday evening, the main German indices had been lifted by a wave of enthusiasm greeting the US Federal Reserve's decision to cut its federal funds rate by half a percentage point. 

 But "a cut in US rates is certainly not going to trigger a sudden change in the direction of global stock markets," said a weekly stock market report by Commerzbank. 

 "Other unfulfilled promises by companies will create more uncertainty," the bank said, which nevertheless welcomed the Fed's decision to take early action to offset a sharp landing in the US economy. 

 "A stabilisation of the US economy is a key condition for recovery of international share markets," Commerzbank said, particularly in Germany because of its economic situation and the growth potential for its companies. 

 Technology stocks got a roasting, however. 

 Business software group SAP, victim of rumours of an impending profit warning, slumped 24.7 euros, or 16.5 percent over the week, to close at 125.10 euros. 

 Microchip manufacturer Epcos fell 0.58 euros, or 0.6 percent, to 95.07 euros. 

 Dresdner Bank, subject to rumours it was about to sell a big slice of Allianz shares, eased 0.05 euros to 46.40. 

 The US interest rate cut helped car manufacturers on expectations of an increase in US sales after a drop in demand. DaimlerChrysler climbed 1.76 euros, or 3.9 percent, to close at 46.50. 

 But energy group E.ON slumped 5.30 euros, or 8.2 percent, to finish the week at 59.50. 

 ahe/djw/sst 

Document afpr000020010709dx1500hf4
 

 

 Most European, Asian markets rally, US stocks finish lower 

713 words
5 January 2001
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2001) 

 NEW YORK, Jan 4 (AFP) - US stocks finished Thursday lower, driven down by fears that an interest rate decrease announced by the Federal Reserve might not be enough to ward off a recession. 

 The new slide came on the heels of a world market rally sparked by a decision Wednesday by the US Federal Reserve to slash short-term interest rates by half a point in a bid to halt a sharp growth slowdown. 

 In an unusual move coming between its regularly scheduled meetings, the Fed's policymaking Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) brought down the benchmark federal funds rate to six percent. 

 But after a powerful rally Wednesday, US stock lost some ground Thursday amid investor worries about the future of the US economy. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average lost 33.34 points, or 0.3 percent of its value, to end the day at 10,912.41 points. The technology- heavy Nasdaq lost 49.85 points, or 1.91 percent, to reach 2,566.84 points. 

 Trading was heavy as 2.1 billion shares changed hands in one session for the first time in Wall Street history. 

 "The economic picture for 2001 is still unclear," commented Abby Joseph Cohen, an analyst with Goldman Sachs. 

 "The FOMC action makes clear the desire of policymakers to avoid further economic weakness, and serves to boost confidence that recession will be avoided," she pointed out. 

 On the bond market, 10-year Treasury notes were yielding 5.017 percent versus 5.14 percent on Wednesday while the yield on 30-year Treasury bonds was 5.472 compared to 5.433 the day before. Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions. 

 Around the world, stock markets rallied Thursday as investors briefly forgot their fears for the world economy following the shock US interest rate cut. 

 European investors followed their US and Asian counterparts, snapping up stocks, and notably technology shares, which had slumped on prospects that the US engine of global growth could be grinding to a halt. 

 But even in the buying frenzy, investors sounded a note of caution as experts raised questions about the health of the US economy and whether the US rate cut would be enough. 

 "Enjoy it while it lasts, because it could all crash tomorrow," said one trader in Paris. 

 London's FTSE-100 index rallied 145.7 points, or 2.4 percent, to finish at 6,185.6 while Paris' CAC-40 index jumped 131.94 points, or 2.3 percent to close the day at 5,815.99. 

 Frankfurt's DAX index was the exception, closing down 58.42 points, or 0.91 percent, at 6,376.54. 

 Across the 12-nation euro zone, the Euro Stoxx 50 index was at 4,757.34 points, up 96.86 points or 2.1 percent. 

 Most Asian markets got a shot in the arm too. The Hang Seng index in Hong Kong clawed back 4.4 percent, but investors in Tokyo missed out on the new-found optimism and the Nikkei-225 slipped 0.7 percent. 

 "It is a reaction, perhaps a bit more violent than usual, to what happened in the United States and here yesterday," said one Paris- based dealer.             Technology and telecommunications stocks led the way in Europe. 

 In Paris, French telecommunications equipment firm Alcatel closed up 7.80 euros, or 14.3 percent, at 62.30 euros and France Telecom advanced 6.05 euros, or 7.0 percent, to 92.55 euros. 

 In London, market heavyweight Vodafone jumped 14 pence, or 6.2 percent, to finish at 239 pence. British Telecom, which said it was discussing a real estate sale to cut its debt, rose 53 pence to 613 pence. 

 Investors in Germany were gloomier. Business software group SAP eased 11.48 percent to 126.05 euros following a profit warning the previous week. 

 Despite the US rate cut, the European Central Bank refused to be panicked into easing monetary conditions and held the minimum bid rate for its regular refinancing operations steady at 4.75 percent at a regular meeting. 

 Its other two rates -- the deposit rate at 3.75 percent and the marginal lending rate at 5.75 percent -- were also untouched. 

 bur/mk/ksb 

Document afpr000020010709dx1500ght
 

 

Double worry puts BAE Systems in dive; MARKET REPORT  

JIM ARMITAGE  
616 words
5 January 2001
The Evening Standard
NS
D
75
English
(c) 2001 Associated Newspapers. All rights reserved  

BAE SYSTEMS headed down to earth today as traders fretted about the size of provisions needed by the group in the face of poor uptake of its Hawk trainer planes and the two-year overrun for its contract to supply Nimrod spy-in-the-sky aircraft.  

The company is discussing the financial implications of Nimrod's problems with the Ministry of Defence. Some analysts are estimating total provisions for the two projects of between Pounds 400 million and Pounds 450 million, but others say those guesses are far too conservative. Reports of further rationalisation at the group following the 5000 job losses announced last year failed to ease earnings concerns and BAE Systems was one of the FTSE 100 index's biggest fallers, losing 18 The slide came against the backdrop of a cautiously rising market, with another strong session for telecoms, media and technology shares despite a lacklustre US performance.  

Tech firms traditionally love a US Federal Reserve interest rate cut more than those in more-defensive sectors, so further gains in Colt Telecom, up 140p to 1665p, BT, 21p stronger at 628p and Vodafone, 61/2p up 2451/2p, came as little surprise. Analysts said yesterday's property disposal announcement by BT was seen as showing that new finance director Philip Hampton was being given freedom to carry out his ideas.  

The FTSE 100 gained 54 points to 6239.6 after taking heart from US non-farm payroll figures that were in line with expectations.  

Autonomy, which stood out as a faller amid yesterday's exuberance for technology stocks, was the biggest riser. Up 205p at 1515p, the group made up for some of its 46% slide in value since joining the Footsie last month as a positive trading statement eased some worries about its market position following a profit warning from US software outfit Inktomi, one of its customers.  

Whitbread lost the previous session's fizz, ditching 8p to 549p, as investors noted today was the deadline for indicative offers for its 3000-strong pubs estate. Seen as highly desirable in the pubs industry, they are expected to attract bids of up to Pounds 1.6 billion from the likes of private equity houses Nomura, Alchemy and DB Capital Partners.  

What effect the downturn in the bond market will have on venture capitalists' thirst for such a huge deal is unclear. A contract win helped office equipment group Danka Business Systems gain 23/4p to 123/4p, some comfort for investors who have seen the group fall from 1971/2p a year ago.  

Danka's deal with US visual communications outfit Kinko's has a total value of more than Pounds 38 million. But some traders were touting the stock as a recovery play. Trading in its US-listed stocks overnight was going through at the equivalent of 14p, indicating London could soon be playing catch-up. A big institutional seller was cleared out while the group also calmed fears over its financing by paying off $25 million (Pounds 16.7 million) of loans early, brokers said.  

An upgrade from CCF Charterhouse warmed healthcare group Nycomed Amer-sham by 10p to 545p while ex-dividend United Utilities was the Footsie's biggest faller, losing 351/2p to 611p after ABN Amro reduced its rating of the group.  

It set a target of 500p-560p amid concerns over regulatory pressures and the declining value of its business telecoms operations.  

lPrices and indices in this section are supplied from various sources and calculated at different times and may not always match those listed in the tables. Ofex prices relate to the previous close.  

944603286

Document NS00000020060914dx15008hx
 

 

 Global stock markets rally after US rate cut by Daniel Rook ATTENTION - UPDATES with Frankfurt close /// 

722 words
4 January 2001
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2001) 

 LONDON, Feb 4 (AFP) - Global stock markets rallied Thursday as investors briefly forgot their fears for the world economy following a shock US interest rate cut to ward off the threat of recession. 

 European investors followed their US and Asian counterparts, snapping up stocks, and notably technology shares, which had slumped on prospects that the US engine of global growth could be grinding to a halt. 

 But even in the buying frenzy, investors sounded a note of caution as experts raised questions about the health of the US economy and whether the US rate cut would be enough. 

 "Enjoy it while it lasts, because it could all crash tomorrow," said one trader in Paris. 

 London's FTSE-100 index rallied 145.7 points, or 2.4 percent, to finish at 6,185.6 while Paris' CAC-40 index jumped 131.94 points, or 2.3 percent to close the day at 5,815.99. 

 Frankfurt's DAX index was the exception, closing down 58.42 points, or 0.91 percent, at 6,376.54. 

 Across the 12-nation euro zone, the Euro Stoxx 50 index was 4,757.34 points, up 96.86 points or 2.1 percent. 

 In early US trade, the technology-heavy Nasdaq, which surged 14.7 percent Wednesday, was up 0.05 percent at 2,618.03 points while the Dow Jones Industrial Average, which had advanced 2.9 percent the previous day, was up 0.3 percent at 10,970.25 points. 

 Most Asian markets got a shot in the arm too. The Hang Seng index in Hong Kong clawed back 4.4 percent, but investors in Tokyo missed out on the new-found optimism and the Nikkei-225 slipped 0.7 percent. 

 "It is a reaction, perhaps a bit more violent than usual, to what happened in the United States and here yesterday," said one Paris- based dealer, a day after the United States cut rates by 0.5 percentage points. 

 Technology and telecommunications stocks led the way in Europe. 

 In Paris, French telecommunications equipment firm Alcatel closed up 7.80 euros, or 14.3 percent, at 62.30 euros and France Telecom advanced 6.05 euros, or 7.0 percent, to 92.55 euros. 

 In London, market heavyweight Vodafone jumped 14 pence, or 6.2 percent, to finish at 239 pence. British Telecom, which said it was discussing a real estate sale to cut its debt, rose 53 pence to 613 pence. 

 Investors in Germany were gloomier. Business software group SAP eased 11.48 percent to 126.05 euros following a profit warning the previous week. 

 Despite the US rate cut, the European Central Bank refused to be panicked into easing monetary conditions and held the minimum bid rate for its regular refinancing operations steady at 4.75 percent at a regular meeting. 

 Its other two rates -- the deposit rate at 3.75 percent and the marginal lending rate at 5.75 percent -- were also untouched. 

 On foreign exchange markets, the euro also brushed aside the US interest rate cut, spiking above 95 US cents after an immediate surge of the dollar had petered out amid persistent concerns about the health of the US economy. 

 The single European currency clawed its way back above 95 US cents, then eased to 0.9451 dollars in late trade -- still markedly higher than 0.9270 dollars in late New York trading. 

 "The ability of the Fed to rescue the economy and hence the dollar, at least in the early part of this year, will be difficult to achieve," said Deutsche Bank economist Michael Lewis. 

 And in Hong Kong, research chief Tan Chin Poh at RHB Cathay Securities said the sudden US cut had spooked some investors. 

 The reduction was "indicative of how bad things are shaping up in the United States ... the US economy will probably slow further. What we're seeing right now is the repercussions of the rate hikes last year," he said. 

 Elsewhere, Amsterdam's AEX index rose 9.11 points to 638.97 and Madrid's IBEX-35 index rallied 396.3 points, or 4.3 percent, to 9,597.2. But Brussels' Bel 20 closed 12.9 points lower at 3,014.84. 

 dr-burs/djw/rmb 

Document afpr000020010709dx1400geh
 

 

 Global stock markets rally after US rate cut by Daniel Rook ATTENTION - RECASTS, UPDATES prices, rates /// 

747 words
4 January 2001
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2001) 

 LONDON, Feb 4 (AFP) - Global stock markets rallied Thursday as investors briefly forgot their fears for the world economy following a shock US interest rate cut to ward off the threat of recession. 

 European investors followed their US and Asian counterparts, snapping up stocks, and notably technology shares, which had slumped on prospects that the US engine of global growth could be grinding to a halt. 

 But even in the buying frenzy, investors sounded a note of caution as experts raised questions about the health of the US economy and whether the US rate cut would be enough. 

 "Enjoy it while it lasts, because it could all crash tomorrow," said one trader in Paris. 

 London's FTSE-100 index rallied 145.7 points, or 2.4 percent, to finish at 6,185.6 while Paris' CAC-40 index jumped 131.94 points, or 2.3 percent to close the day at 5,815.99. 

 Frankfurt's DAX index was the exception, easing 45.78 points, or 0.7 percent, to 6,389.18 points in late trade despite opening on a strong note. 

 Across the 12-nation euro zone, the Euro Stoxx 50 index was 4,757.34 points, up 96.86 points or 2.1 percent. 

 In early US trade, the technology-heavy Nasdaq, which surged 14.7 percent Wednesday, was up 0.05 percent at 2,618.03 points while the Dow Jones Industrial Average, which had advanced 2.9 percent the previous day, was up 0.3 percent at 10,970.25 points. 

 Most Asian markets got a shot in the arm too. The Hang Seng index in Hong Kong clawed back 4.4 percent, but investors in Tokyo missed out on the new-found optimism and the Nikkei-225 slipped 0.7 percent. 

 "It is a reaction, perhaps a bit more violent than usual, to what happened in the United States and here yesterday," said one Paris- based dealer, a day after the United States cut rates by 0.5 percentage points. 

 Technology and telecommunications stocks led the way in Europe. 

 In Paris, French telecommunications equipment firm Alcatel closed up 7.80 euros, or 14.3 percent, at 62.30 euros and France Telecom advanced 6.05 euros, or 7.0 percent, to 92.55 euros. 

 In London, market heavyweight Vodafone jumped 14 pence, or 6.2 percent, to finish at 239 pence. British Telecom, which said it was discussing a real estate sale to cut its debt, rose 53 pence to 613 pence. 

 Investors in Germany were gloomier. Business software group SAP was down 10.25 percent at 127.8 euros in afternoon trade following a profit warning the previous week while Deutsche Telecom was up 1.4 percent at 34.41 euros. 

 Despite the US rate cut, the European Central Bank refused to be panicked into easing monetary conditions and held the minimum bid rate for its regular refinancing operations steady at 4.75 percent at a regular meeting. 

 Its other two rates -- the deposit rate at 3.75 percent and the marginal lending rate at 5.75 percent -- were also untouched. 

 On foreign exchange markets, the euro also brushed aside the US interest rate cut, spiking above 95 US cents after an immediate surge of the dollar had petered out amid persistent concerns about the health of the US economy. 

 The single European currency clawed its way back above 95 US cents, then eased to 0.9451 dollars in late trade -- still markedly higher than 0.9270 dollars in late New York trading. 

 "The ability of the Fed to rescue the economy and hence the dollar, at least in the early part of this year, will be difficult to achieve," said Deutsche Bank economist Michael Lewis. 

 And in Hong Kong, research chief Tan Chin Poh at RHB Cathay Securities said the sudden US cut had spooked some investors. 

 The reduction was "indicative of how bad things are shaping up in the United States ... the US economy will probably slow further. What we're seeing right now is the repercussions of the rate hikes last year," he said. 

 Elsewhere, Amsterdam's AEX index rose 9.11 points to 638.97 and Madrid's IBEX-35 index rallied 396.3 points, or 4.3 percent, to 9,597.2. But Brussels' Bel 20 closed 12.9 points lower at 3,014.84. 

 dr-burs/djw/db 

Document afpr000020010709dx1400gb9
 

 

 Techs take tumble. 

 By REBECCA HOLMES. 
320 words
4 January 2001
Adelaide Advertiser
ADVTSR
34
English
(c) 2001 Advertiser Newspapers Limited

 WALL Street's dismal start to the New Year infected the local share market yesterday, causing investors to flee high-risk stocks. 

 Technology shares, rocked by the Nasdaq's 7 per cent fall overnight, took the brunt of the negative sentiment with selling in News Corp, major resource stocks and the banking sector also contributing to the all ordinaries' 24.9 point slide to 3180.5. 

 But the Australian dollar was unruffled by negative sentiment, closing above the US56c mark for the first time since September 7 last year. 

 The local unit hit US56.55c during the day before closing at US56.40c, from US55.84c in the previous session. Traders said the $A had been bolstered by strength in the euro, which hit six-month highs against the US dollar at US95c. 

 Although the $A performed well, Dickson's client adviser Andrew Sassi said the market was plagued with nervousness. 

 "Investors are looking for a bit of direction out of the US and perhaps they are also looking for an interest rate drop in the US," Mr Sassi said. 

 On Wall Street overnight, the Nasdaq fell to 2292, its lowest level since March 1999, as many technology and Internet stocks posted 12-month lows. 

 The Dow Jones also finished weaker, down 1.3 per cent to 10,646. US investors went on the defensive, buying bonds after economic data showed US manufacturing fell to its lowest level in a decade - further confirming a slowing in the US economy. 

 This raised hopes that the US Federal Reserve would cut interest rates soon. 

 SecureNet and software designer Ci Technologies were major technology casualties on the ASX. 

 SecureNet fell 26 per cent, down $1.20 to $3.40 on market uncertainty. While Ci Technologies plunged 44 per cent, $1.39 lower at $1.74, after warning of a $5 million profit from forecasts of $7 million. 

Document advtsr0020010709dx1400r45
 

 

 Analysis: Growth of high-technology and how it has changed the geographic centers in the United States 

8,710 words
3 January 2001
NPR: Talk of the Nation
TOTN
English
 Copyright 2001 National Public Radio, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

 TOM GJELTEN, host: It's TALK OF THE NATION.  I'm Tom Gjelten, in today for Juan Williams. 

 The location of the great American cities is no accident.  New York was ideally situated for trade, with one of best waterfronts on the East Coast, but also the Hudson River and then the Erie Canal connecting it to the agricultural hinterland.  Chicago came to dominate the Middle West in part because it was the center of the railroad network.  Cleveland prospered along with the growth of the steel industry; Houston with the oil industry.  People who found employment in those industries had to move to the areas where the industries were based. 

 But that was the old economy and the old United States.  In the past 20 years, the growth of high-technology has transformed the country. The companies that prosper these days deal in knowledge and information, not iron and steel; optic fiber links, not railroads, are what tie the firms together.  Employment in the old-line manufacturing sector continues to decline.  The new opportunities are in the media and entertainment industries; in telecommunications and in computers, notwithstanding the recent collapse of high-technology stock prices. 

 And with these developments, the American landscape is changing, because the cities growing these days are the ones whose locations match the needs of the high-technology industries.  The rise of the digital economy means many companies no longer worry about rail links or waterways. Instead, they need people, skilled workers with specialized knowledge and training.  And the firms will locate in those places where those people are most available or most want to live. 

 The rules for geographic success have changed.  So argues Joel Kotkin in his book, "The New Geography:  How the Digital Revolution is Reshaping the American Landscape."  Join our conversation.  Our number here in Washington is 1 (800) 989-8255.  That's 1 (800) 989-TALK.  Our e-mail address is totn@npr.org. 

 Of course, the success of the new economy has been somewhat in question lately, as tech stocks have gone into sharp decline.  And before we talk with Joel Kotkin, let's just take a minute to check in on the latest news with respect to the new economy. 

 There was a surprising announcement today from the Federal Reserve that it is cutting a key interest rate by 1/2 a percentage point.  The announcement led to an immediate surge in the markets, and joining me from New York to talk about the announcement is NPR's Jim Zarroli. Hello, Jim. 

 JIM ZARROLI reporting: 

 Hi, Tom. 

 GJELTEN:  The next scheduled meeting of the Fed's Open Market Committee, where these announcements are usually made, is still three weeks away. Now a lot of people were assuming that the Fed was going to announce a rate drop at that point.  Why did it act now? 

 ZARROLI:  Yeah, you're right, this was an unusual move.  The Fed--if you follow this stuff, you know the Fed gets together every five weeks. They decide what to do about interest rates.  You know, you've probably seen Alan Greenspan heading into the meetings with his briefcase.  But what a lot of people might not know is that the Fed doesn't really have to wait for a meeting to cut rates; it can do it anytime, if it feels like there's a particular urgency.  And that's what happened here. 

 And I think it basically just says something about how concerned the Fed is. We've had a really sudden slowdown in the economy.  Consumer confidence is down.  A lot of companies are warning that their profit growth is down.  This hasn't been reflected in the labor market so far, but you know, unemployment numbers are coming out Friday.  A lot of people think it's just a matter of time.  There are more and more economists who think we're heading into a recession, and some of them are actually saying, you know, `We may already be there.'  So I'm sure the Fed just doesn't want to be accused of waiting too long to take action. 

 GJELTEN:  And a 1/2 a point--how big is that? 

 ZARROLI:  Well, you know, it's bigger than they could have done. They could have gone with 1/4 point; they went with 1/2 point.  I don't know that any of the--I don't know that that was especially unexpected. A lot of people have been waiting for the Fed to take some kind of action. It sort of signaled that after its last meeting.  You know, they could have done less, but again, I think it's just a sign of how worried they are. They're sort of saying, you know, why wait?  Why drag things out? You know, what would be the point of that? 

 Alan Greenspan is, you know, about as revered a figure as Wall Street has, and you know, I'm sure he doesn't want anybody saying that he was caught unaware while the recession was beginning. 

 GJELTEN:  Now as you say, Alan Greenspan is revered.  And an indication from Alan Greenspan himself that he's worried about the direction of the economy could conceivably alarm traders.  I mean, stock market trading is such a funny thing, anyway.  The immediate reaction of the market today is positive, but can we be sure this is going to continue in that direction?  Or will, in fact, this surprise, dramatic move even alarm some traders? 

 ZARROLI:  Well, I think the stock market loves this.  I mean, you know, it's like Christmas coming a week and a half late.  You know, the market has had this really awful wrenching period over the past few months. It's just--you know, the wonderful bull market just coming to a sudden end.  Everybody knew that was going to happen, but when it actually happens, it's a surprise. 

 You know, the tech sector's in terrible shape.  The NASDAQ Composite Index, you might have seen, it had its worst year ever last year. It fell by almost 2/5ths.  You know, the market has been looking for some good news, something it could latch on to.  And this will do it, at least for a while. 

 I mean, you can never really predict what the kind of secondary reaction is going to be, but you know, on the whole, cutting interest rates makes it a lot cheaper for companies to do business.  And it also stimulates spending.  And that's something that's good news for a lot of companies. 

 GJELTEN:  And you and the analysts you talk to do think that this is going to be enough for a while? 

 ZARROLI:  Not--it's hard to say.  It's very possible there could be another interest rate cut.  You know, in the statement that it issued today, the Fed said it was ready to cut rates again if it had to. And there are people that think it will do so.  They think, you know, the economy has slowed so much that we're going to have to see more cuts. The Fed likes to do things in stages.  It likes to shift policy slowly, take its time.  So, you know, it's very reasonable to think that it could do so again, maybe at the next meeting. 

 A lot of it is going to depend on some of the upcoming economic data, especially the unemployment numbers, which come out on Friday.  If they're disappointing, you know, the odds are going to be pretty good that we're going to see more easing, maybe at the meeting at the end of January. 

 GJELTEN:  Thanks, Jim.  NPR's Jim Zarroli in New York. 

 And joining me now from NPR's bureau in Los Angeles is Joel Kotkin. Hello, Joel.  Welcome to TALK OF THE NATION. 

 Mr. JOEL KOTKIN (Author, "The New Geography"):  Nice to be here. 

 GJELTEN:  And, in fact, in, I think, the second sentence of your book you talk about the rise of the digital economy.  Are you still confident that the digital economy is rising and going to continue rising? 

 Mr. KOTKIN:  Oh, I think that's certainly the case.  It would be like going into one of the recessions, and sometimes depressions, that took place during the industrial age and say, `Well, is the industrial age still going to take place?'  Obviously there are going to be ups and downs, but if you look at the long-term trends, as you look at the growth of the digital economy, the growth of the number of people online going from, let's say, if you go with US adults from 10 percent in 1976, even less than 20 percent in 1996, to close to 40 percent now, maybe over 50 percent within a few years, you're talking about tremendous changes happening at an incredibly rapid rate.  So the long-term trends are there. 

 And, you know, one thing I find sort of interesting is people are saying, `Well, the new economy is falling part and, you know, maybe the old economy's coming back.'  But Montgomery Ward going out of business, I thought, was an interesting sign about the old economy.  And obviously the problems in the auto sector show you that what's happening in the economy is going across the board.  And the tech stocks have taken a hit, but anyone who bets against the technology sector long-term and against the digital revolution long-term is going to be in serious trouble. 

 GJELTEN:  Of course, I think there was bad news--I understand there was bad news from General Motors today, too, so that just underscores your point, doesn't it? 

 Mr. KOTKIN:  Yeah.  I mean, if you look at the American economy, its growth has been pretty consistently, over the last decade, driven by the tech sector, by the information sector.  If the information sector weakens, everything else is going to weaken.  The only sort of outlier in this whole thing may be energy.  That may do well, given some of the problems in the energy sector. But basically the new economy is the future of the American economy, and it's going to be the thing that's going to shape our society and how we live and where we live.  And that's really what the new geography is all about. 

 GJELTEN:  Well, just before we get into it--what's a fascinating discussion is the geographic aspects of this.  But just to stick on this economic front for a second more, do you see the growth simply slowing down, or maybe this being a period where sort of the stronger companies are the ones that survive and the weaker one are weeded out? Is that what's going on right now? 

 Mr. KOTKIN:  I think there are going to be several things happening. One thing is you're going to see certain companies obviously being acquired by the stronger companies.  That's going to take place.  And I also think there's a tremendous swelling up at the grassroots level, whether in Silicon Alley or you're in South of Market, San Francisco, or in Silicon Valley or here in the West Side of Los Angeles, which is a major hotbed, you're seeing a lot of little companies getting started up, maybe more on a shoestring. 

 So I think you'll see both consolidation of the known companies and a whole bunch of unknown companies getting going as people get laid off, people begin to look for new opportunities.  I think it's an extremely dynamic situation, and I think we're going to see a whole bunch of new players emerge over the next three, four, five years that we never even heard of. 

 GJELTEN:  So we have the old new economy and the new new economy. 

 Mr. KOTKIN:  Exactly.  And I think what is going to happen with the new new economy is, one, I think the companies are going to be more bottom line oriented, which is good 'cause they're not going to be fed with idiot money from Wall Street; and second of all, I think you're going to see this have some geographic impacts. 

 I think some areas that have been very hot--San Francisco, West LA, Manhattan--may become a little expensive for companies looking at the bottom line, and you may see companies moving to Oakland or parts of northern New Jersey, or even to places like Tulsa or places in Texas which are cheaper, better places to do business from a money point of view. 

 So I think it's going to continue to change and shape and morph, but the fundamental forces that I describe in "New Geography" are just, I think, irresistible over time. 

 GJELTEN:  Please join us in our conversation.  The phone number is 1 (800) 989-TALK. 

 And on the geographic implications, you talk about why the successful cities are new and different from the old successful cities.  Very quickly summarize what it is that accounts for geographic success these days in the context of this new economy. 

 Mr. KOTKIN:  Well, if you look at the urban picture, there are really, I discovered, different environments.  But in terms of urban areas, in many ways it's sort of the successful pre-industrial cities that have been most successful in the post-industrial era.  And that is those cities that have a lot of culture, are attractive to young, creative workers. There are really two kinds of workers in the tech world and the information economy.  There's the conventional nerds, and they live in places that I describe in the book as `nerdistans,' and I'm sure we'll get into that discussion. 

 And then there are the sort of people who work on the soft side, the people who fill the pipeline that the nerds are creating.  And they tend to like places where there's lots of interaction, where there's a lot happening, where they--and very often these are single people, people without children.  They want to go out, they want to socialize. They tend to like the old architecture.  And what you see all over the country is those cities that maintained, if you will, a kind of charm and livability--you look at the Lower part of Manhattan or the Boston Cyber District, South of Market, San Francisco--these are the places that seem to have attracted this kind of soft side.  And these are the cities that have done best.  I mean, you can go through the cities with the highest Internet penetration--Seattle, San Francisco, Boston.  These are cities that have done well. 

 Who has not done well really are cities that were sort of scarred, if you will, by their success in the industrial revolution.  They became sort of cold and massive and not very livable, but very functional in the industrial era. St. Louis is certainly one city that has had that problem.  Buffalo had that problem.  Detroit had that problem. They didn't really have a lot of the accoutrements that attract this sort of new urbanite professional.  And at the same time, they lost their big industries.  So right now those cities are in very bad shape.  And in the book, I refer to some of them as new Carthages. 

 GJELTEN:  We're talking about how the digital age has created a new geography and what that means.  And we're going to be taking your calls at 1 (800) 989-TALK.  Or send us e-mail.  The address is totn@npr.org. I'm Tom Gjelten. It's TALK OF THE NATION from NPR News. 

 (Soundbite of music) 

 GJELTEN:  It's TALK OF THE NATION.  I'm Tom Gjelten. 

 We're talking about the changing importance of place with Joel Kotkin, the author most recently of "The New Geography:  How the Digital Revolution is Reshaping the American Landscape."  And you can join our conversation at 1 (800) 989-8255.  That's 1 (800) 989-TALK. 

 Clear something up for me, Joel, because there's kind of a complicated point that you make.  On the one hand, we all think with the new economy that people have the ability to work at home, to telecommute, and that because firms don't depend anymore on the location of physical assets but rather on communication, that you would think that there's been this tremendous decentralization of the economy and decentralization of the work force and where workers live.  And yet you talk very much about the importance of cities and really a process of urbanization that is going on with the development of the new economy and people being clustered increasingly together.  Now how do you explain what strikes me, as a novice, as a bit of a contradiction? 

 Mr. KOTKIN:  Well, actually several things are happening at the same time, as they usually do in history.  First of all, people said, `OK, digital economy; we're going to have a placeless society.  It can be anywhere.  Anyone can be anywhere.' 

 GJELTEN:  Right. 

 Mr. KOTKIN:  Therefore place isn't important.  What I found in my research and in continuing research that I do is that a society where people have more locational choices really is one where place and the nature of place is more important.  If I can be one of a thousand places, then I'm going to tend to choose those places that I like. 

 GJELTEN:  And you're probably going to choose a city. 

 Mr. KOTKIN:  Well, some people are going to choose a city.  I talk about three real environments that have done well in the digital economy to date.  One is what I would call the boutique cities, the West LAs, the San Franciscos, the Seattles, the Lower Manhattans, other places where you have a kind of urban lifestyle that attracts creative, younger people, generally speaking. 

 Second of all, you have these nerdistans, which is the classic high-tech environment.  Places that are a little bit on the antiseptic side by some judgments, but have good schools, parks, well-organized work environments. This applies to engineers.  You talk to human resource managers at engineering firms, they like places like Raleigh-Durham, Irvine, which are predictable. They don't want to step over homeless people on the way to work.  They don't care whether there's a great Burmese restaurant that opened up around the corner. They want to go, they want to do their work and they want to go back to their families in an orderly manner.  They want to get houses with modern wiring so they have all their gadgets.  This is what HR managers tell me. 

 GJELTEN:  So you're saying these are places that appeal to nerds and are populated mostly by nerds.  Is that what you're saying? 

 Mr. KOTKIN:  Exactly.  They people who build the pipeline, the hard edge of the technology revolution is with the nerds. 

 The third area--and this is probably the most interesting, in some ways--is the development of what I call Valhallas, which are these remote locations, very often even places that had once been old mining towns that now are doing very well as people who don't have to be in the urban area or a metropolitan area on a regular basis choose to locate--Jackson Hole, Wyoming; Park City, Utah, are very good cases. But you see it in the Berkshires and parts of southern Vermont; you see it in places like San Luis Obispo, California; where certain kinds of workers who can just plug in and give their input into a company or into the economy from a remote location, they go. 

 On each one of these type of areas--the nerdistans, the boutique cities and in the Valhallas--there is a sort of polar opposite of types of places that don't do well.  I'm not one of these people who believes that the technology revolution and the digital revolution is going to make life great for everybody everywhere.  Like every change in society, there are winners and losers.  And how we deal with that politically is going to be one of the great question of the next 10 to 20 years. 

 GJELTEN:  Joel, let's bring Andrew Segal into the conversation now. He's a bit of a character in your book--a real estate developer with boxer properties based in Houston, Texas.  And Andrew joins us now on the line. How are you today?  Welcome to TALK OF THE NATION. 

 Mr. ANDREW SEGAL:  Thanks for having me. 

 GJELTEN:  Now you're someone who has redeveloped a lot of properties in a lot of downtown areas.  Why would you say a city is a good location to invest? Why not suburbs where a family lives?  How do you--what do you see right now as the most desirable place to invest from a residential, and even commercial, development point of view? 

 Mr. SEGAL:  Well, I think it's absolutely the cities.  I see the downtown areas as organic, as full of people, creative, a lot of interaction. Whereas the suburbs, while they have a long-standing place in commerce, are somewhat sterile.  The one reason that I think--or the most compelling reason people moved away from the cities was crime. That was really the only reason why you didn't want to be surrounded by a lot of people.  As the cities are correcting that problem, they're really becoming the exciting place to be. 

 GJELTEN:  And what do you think--have you read Joel's book, and do you agree with his thesis that cities and communities are being shaped in a very deliberate way by the choices of the people who move there? 

 Mr. SEGAL:  Absolutely.  And I think it goes--you know, it goes to a whole other level, is that, you know, in accordance with Joel's thesis, as people decide where they want to be in the country, they also decide where they want to be within a city.  In the same way, it shapes the block that they move on, a well as the decision whether to be downtown or in the suburbs. 

 GJELTEN:  And, again, what are the factors that you find are important to them? 

 Mr. SEGAL:  Coffee and beer. 

 GJELTEN:  (Laughs) 

 Mr. SEGAL:  Those are the two things that we seem to be willing to pay a huge premium to have people watch us drink.  You know, it's a place to mingle, to exchange ideas and--Who knows?--even phone numbers. 

 GJELTEN:  Now, Andrew, in Houston do you see a distinction between these nerd communities--the nerdistans, in Joel's terminology--and the more, let's say, core city areas where presumably there are more bars and coffee shops and bookstores and so forth? 

 Mr. SEGAL:  Absolutely.  Houston is a microcosm of the country, in that it has a downtown but also has a collection of suburbs.  The downtown is winning the race in, you know, determining where companies locate. Any given technology company, or even non-technology company, is going to have a combination of the tech people and the creative people. It seems like the creative people are choosing the locations these days. 

 GJELTEN:  Well, that's very interesting.  And thank you for joining us, Andrew Segal.  He's in Joel Kotkin's recent book "The New Geography." 

 And you can join our discussion.  Give us a call at 1 (800) 989-TALK. Our e-mail address is totn@npr.org.  And with us for the rest of the hour is Joel Kotkin. 

 Joel, describe, let's say, the flip side of Andrew Segal's story, which you call the anti-urban impulse, because in fact, not all people--you mentioned your Valhalla idea--not all people do choose to live in the city when they have a choice.  Is that not correct? 

 Mr. KOTKIN:  Well, yeah, really the new geography is really as much about sociology and demographics as it is about technology.  It really is the intersection of those things.  First of all, you have a large number of people who have families.  I mean, what you'll see in American society today is people go--move to the city, move to Andrew's buildings, whether in Baltimore or Houston or Hartford or wherever he's investing these days.  They'll go there, and then around 30, 35 they get married and then maybe they start thinking about having children.  And by the time the children get to be about four or five years old, they start thinking about the schools.  Crime may be getting fixed, but schools aren't. They--the little kids--I have a six-year-old--they start moving around, they want a little more space.  They move to the suburbs. And there's that impulse. 

 Now the thing that's different today is you now have a very large group of people, an increasing number of people who never have children and, in some cases, never get married.  They stay in the city.  But there's this other group that moves out. 

 Then there's yet another group.  Sometimes these people, as they become successful, begin to say, `Well, you know, I'm living in a nerdistan in Irvine and I'm sort of getting tired of the high prices and the sterility.  And I want to get back to something that I think is better for my children or more relaxing.' And that's when they start looking for the Valhallas.  And that's part of--in the chapter in "The New Geography" call the anti-urban impulse.  I talk about the Valhallas. And you now see very prominent people and very, even important companies being operated out of Jackson Hole, out of the Maine coast because some people make those choices. 

 Again, it's a question of different sociological groups, if you will, choosing different ways of getting into the digital economy, but is--the uniting factor is that they now have those choices to go to those various kinds of environments.  You don't have to be a creative worker suffering in Irvine. You don't have to be a nerd suffering in Santa Monica. 

 GJELTEN:  Well, Joel, we have a ton of people who have comments and questions for you.  Let's go now to Sean(ph) in Cleveland, Ohio. Sean, you're on TALK OF THE NATION. 

 SEAN (Caller):  Hi.  How are you doing? 

 GJELTEN:  Good. 

 SEAN:  My question--or actually, it's more of a comment I'd like a response to.  I know people that are in these little enclaves sitting around drinking their coffee and beer, as was earlier described, kind of looking at each other and thinking, you know, `This is the whole country, this whole digital revolution thing,' because everybody around them is doing that.  But when you go across the rest of the country, I don't really think this so-called `digital economy' is even real to a point.  I mean, basically many of these companies that are on the Internet are just the old Spiegel's and Sears & Roebuck's catalogs in an electric format, and eventually they went out of business.  You still need factories to make things.  You still need trucks to deliver them; warehouses to store them.  People still need houses or apartments to live in.  People have to build those. 

 I mean, by and large, it seems to me that the major impact of these e-businesses and digital commerce has basically been a place to put venture capital that was at one time going into the marketplace and driving up the cost of all these stocks, which then, when these new stocks come online and make their initial public offerings, their prices go up because everybody thinks those are going to do the same and do well.  And basically, the driving thrust of the economy has just been--or rather the stock market has been money pouring in looking for something to buy. 

 So many of these companies have gone out of business because we found out we really didn't need all these wonderful things that they promised. They didn't really deliver any better than the shop down at the end of the street or what have you.  It seems to me that as long as people are putting their 401(k)s and their retirements into stocks and bonds, you're going to continue to see the stock market moving up.  And when people get scared, like what's been happening from the first drop that we saw in tech stocks over the preceding---or I should say over probably since last summer, people have been slowly moving their money out of tech stocks, because when they took that first big hit and saw their retirement savings drop by... 

 Mr. KOTKIN:  Right. 

 SEAN:  ...up to a third, they got scared.  And so now what your seeing is moneys are being moved out of that slowly--They're being moved into certificates of deposit--and old line companies, like Ford and Chevy and IBM and all that. 

 So basically my point is that it just seems to me like this digital economy is only for a few people in these enclaves, if you will, that have new jobs now because of all this paper that they're pushing around. 

 GJELTEN:  Well, Sean, let's let Joel talk about that.  Joel, you mentioned that a lot of this money that was going into the industry was--forget your expression--`junk money' from Wall Street or something like that. 

 Mr. KOTKIN:  Idiot money. 

 GJELTEN:  `Idiot money.'  That's what you said.  And that it was basically distorting the sector. 

 Mr. KOTKIN:  Well, there's no question about it.  But what I'm talking about in "The New Geography" is not what's going on in the stock market. 

 GJELTEN:  Right. 

 Mr. KOTKIN:  I frankly don't pay much attention to the stock market as much as I take a look at what's happening in society.  I don't think you can underestimate a process in which, for instance, if you look at the Internet economy, all the things involved with the Internet, going from about, oh, 100 million--$100 billion, excuse me, in 1999 to probably 350 billion this year, now that's a small part of the economy, but it's where a lot of the growth is. Even the old economy, if you will, is increasingly digitized and affected by the digital revolution in the sense of where people locate, how they do their jobs.  Farmers today--I was just reading a report the other day--spend as much as two hours a day on the Internet looking at where to buy feed, what to--what's going on the global market.  So this information revolution and the things that go in it and the people who service it and the people who build the components, those are well beyond the few, flaky dot-coms in Silicon Alley that, you know, got hyped in the newspaper. So I think it's much, much broader than that, and it really affects communities. 

 The other thing is, in the work that I've done, particularly over the past year, what I've seen is that this economy is now being discussed and beginning to be a factor in places where you don't expect it.  I... 

 GJELTEN:  Hold that thought for a second, Joel. 

 You're listening to TALK OF THE NATION from NPR News. 

 Go ahead. 

 Mr. KOTKIN:  I did a town hall in Grand Forks, North Dakota, with about 300 people.  And there's a town that has a classic new geography problem. They young people in North Dakota are some of the most outstanding young people I've ever encountered.  They're smart.  Most of them go to college. They're polite.  They're well-disciplined.  If you lived in New York and Los Angeles, you say, `God, this is the way young people should be sometimes.' You're there in North Dakota, they create these people, but they can't get people to stay. 

 And the whole question is:  How do we keep this vital resource? It's not what's the future of wheat and soybeans and hogs.  It's how do we keep these bright, young people in these communities?  And I'm finding all over the country--Huntsville, Alabama, the same issues were raised at meetings I had.  People are trying to say, `How do we keep these bright, young people and, to some extent, attract the companies who would employ them?'  But it's more keeping the people. 

 The real essence of the new geography is it's about how do you get people to stay, locate, invest in your community?  And that goes beyond Silicon Alley and South of Market.  This is something that in the work that I do on my own Web site and the responses I get from people, this is really an issue that's gone well beyond the San Franciscos. 

 Five, six years ago, the digital economy was an issue that really, as the gentlemen explained, affected a small group of people.  Now you can go to small towns in the middle of Iowa and they want to know:  How do we fit into the digital economy?  How can we make it work for us?  Do we have a future? 

 GJELTEN:  You know, Joel, Ed in Grays River, Washington, is on the line and Ed has actually I think a question for you just exactly in that regard with respect to places like the Dakotas and others that might have been left behind.  Ed, welcome to TALK OF THE NATION. 

 ED (Caller):  Thank you.  Joel, I want to say that you're one of the first writers on the new economy that I actually agree with.  It's just amazing. 

 Mr. KOTKIN:  That's good to know. 

 ED:  I live in Washington state, which reportedly has the highest income disparity between rich and poor counties in the nation.  We have the Microsofts, but we also have the, you know, Grays River, Washingtons. And I'm really interested in figuring out how to get this digital infrastructure out to rural communities so that businesses can locate there.  But I think what's actually going to happen is that these kids graduating from high school are going to start their own businesses and move back to their home towns.  But how do we get those fiber-optic lines, those high-capacity infrastructure out to rural areas?  You know, I'm a telecommuter and a journalist and a Web editor, and I telecommute at 28.8 baud right now. 

 Mr. KOTKIN:  Oh, pretty slow. 

 ED:  Yeah.  And, you know, there's no help on the horizon as far as that goes. US West is more interested in providing new services to urban areas than extending basic services--the basic infrastructure to areas like us. 

 GJELTEN:  Ed.  Hold that question, Ed.  And I want to give you a chance, Joel, to think about that while we go to a break. 

 We're talking about how the American view of place has shifted in the digital age.  You can continue this discussion with us online.  Go to npr.org, click on the `Your Turn' section, and scroll down to TALK OF THE NATION. 

 I'm Tom Gjelten.  It's TALK OF THE NATION from NPR News. 

 (Announcements) 

 GJELTEN:  It's TALK OF THE NATION.  I'm Tom Gjelten. 

 Several GOP congressmen who were swept into office during the Republican revolution have voluntarily retired this year.  Tomorrow at this time, Juan Williams will talk with several of these outgoing legislators about term limits and their experiences in Congress. 

 Today we're talking about the shifting importance of place in the digital age with Joel Kotkin.  His most recent book is "The New Geography: How the Digital Revolution is Reshaping the American Landscape." 

 Join our conversation.  Call us at 1 (800) 989-TALK.  Our e-mail address is TALK OF THE NATION--totn@npr.org. 

 Ed in Grays River, Washington, just before the break you were asking what rural communities can do to get in on the digital revolution if they don't have adequate infrastructure.  If that wasn't quite your question correct me. But let's hear, first of all, what Joel has to say about that. 

 Mr. KOTKIN:  Well, I think it's a terrific question.  And in some of the work that I've done--and some of those articles are at www.newgeography.com--I have seen that there have been communities that have done something about it.  I mean, this problem where you have big telecommunications companies that say, `You know what?  We don't want to invest in small town America.  We're going to go to the places where the action is, where the buildings where Andrew Segal's people are, in the downtowns, in the nerdistans and maybe in a Valhalla, like Park City.' I'm sure they have all the good services you want. 

 These other communities, sometimes they have to be very innovative. One community that I've written about is Manning, Iowa, and this is a community, and several communities like it in Iowa, they had terrible problems. They couldn't get call waiting.  They couldn't get the kind of Internet service they wanted.  What they did, which I thought was fascinating, is they actually municipalized their phone service. They actually set up their own phone service.  So they have extremely good telecommunications capacity. 

 So sometimes what you might even refer to as a bit of civic socialism might be one of the ways that people can respond.  This is how rural America has traditionally responded to these kinds of market failures. And we're seeing massive market failure across rural America.  And communities are saying, `If we don't have this telecommunications infrastructure, we can't attract companies, and it's going to be hard for us to get young people or people who want to move back to their hometown.'  They say, `Well, I'm not going to move back to my hometown and have to deal on a, you know, 28 baud modem.  I can't do what I do at that speed.'  So I think that that's one of the things that these rural communities can do.  And, of course, there are many cities and even suburban communities are going to have to figure out other ways of getting these kinds of services. 

 But the Manning, Iowa, case, which I write about in my New York Times column, I thought was really, really interesting because really the people there really just took the bull by the horns and said, `We're not going to let, in their case, GTE destroy our town and leave us a hulking wreck.  We are going to go and get command of our own fate.' And I think it worked extremely well. 

 GJELTEN:  Well, Ed in Grays River, what's the problem, Ed?  Why are you stuck with that very low modem rate there? 

 ED:  Well, there's--you know, I just want to add on what he's been saying. You know, my Internet service provider is the Public Utility District.  And the public utility districts were created during the Rural Electrification Project of the 1930s.  And I think that a similar effort might be needed to help bring this sort of infrastructure out into our areas. 

 But the problem is that, you know, I have--our local phone company is actually family owned and it's wonderful, and they actually put fiber-optic lines in the ground, but haven't been able to hook it up to the big corporate providers so that it hooks up to the outside world. We actually have fiber-optic lines in the ground just waiting to be hooked up.  It's been in there for years. And so that's the problem. It's just getting those companies to invest in the infrastructure. 

 And Oregon has worked out a deal with US West a year or two ago where they would trade off lifting some regulations on quality of service in exchange for getting US West to actually invest a little bit of infrastructure in rural communities. 

 GJELTEN:  Well, Ed, send them Joel Kotkin's book and tell them to get with it. Thanks an awful lot, Ed. 

 ED:  Yeah.  Well, you know, also... 

 GJELTEN:  Yeah. 

 ED:  ...Bonneville Power Administration has looked into providing fiber-optic lines, but the utilities are actually fighting that effort. 

 GJELTEN:  Thanks, Ed. 

 ED:  OK. 

 GJELTEN:  I want to go now to Don Williamson who has sent us an e-mail from Seaview, Washington.  And Don says, `Today's lead-in'--and he's talking about this program, I guess--`failed to recognize that the new economy has its own infrastructure requirements.  It requires high speed Internet access,' as we've been discussing.  `Towns and regions that do not have populations large enough to support this access are being left behind.  As an example, Astoria, Oregon, is repeatedly evaluated for location, but rejected by the tech companies.' 

 This is exactly what we've been talking about.  And I guess, Joel, that you've hit a nerve in pointing out that there are--the new `have not' communities in America are the ones that aren't situated for the high-tech industry. 

 Mr. KOTKIN:  Yeah.  And I think there is also a great opportunity economically for some of these communities, particularly the ones that are in attractive areas and good places to raise children, or even good places for people to retire.  You're going to have a whole group of baby boomers in their 50s. Their children are grown up.  Many of them either came from small towns, grew up on farms, and may be ready to not really retire, but start a second career in a small community.  But if they cannot have the access to the telecommunications infrastructure, they're not going to do it. 

 GJELTEN:  I want to go now to Gershen(ph) in Mountain View, California. Gershen, you're on.  Am I saying your name correctly? 

 GERSHEN (Caller):  Yeah.  Gershen.  Uh-huh. 

 GJELTEN:  Great.  OK.  You're on TALK OF THE NATION. 

 GERSHEN:  Well, out here in the heart of Silicon Valley... 

 GJELTEN:  Exactly. 

 GERSHEN:  ...I have nothing to do with the computer industry.  And I think that--I'm wondering why you're not bringing out the evils, so to speak, of when an area gets concentrated with overpaid people in that industry, and the average--not only the average person, but the above-average income person cannot afford to live here anymore, and has to commute two hours.  This would include:  professors, policemen, teachers, all the important people who work with people, not machines. 

 GJELTEN:  Well, I want to give Joel credit.  He certainly does talk about the downside of the high-tech economy in your book. 

 GERSHEN:  There's plenty of downside. 

 GJELTEN:  Yeah. 

 GERSHEN:  You got a single mother looking for a place to live.  You get rents going up 20 percent a year.  Housing prices are out of sight, except for your people who've made money in stock options. 

 GJELTEN:  Joel, you wouldn't argue with any of that, would you? 

 GERSHEN:  The environment has been spoiled and congested. 

 Mr. KOTKIN:  No.  I mean, one of the things that happens in I think with this process--and I lived in the Bay Area.  I went to school in Berkeley. So, you know, across the bay, but I did have friends at Stanford. One of the things that you notice in some of these most successful nerdistans. You have to call the Silicon Valley sort of nerdistan on steroids. Sort of like the logical extension if a nerdistan grew without limit, you get this kind of process. And what's happening now is Silicon Valley is going to have to sort of remake itself to be a more livable place, because it's beginning to become less attractive many people, particularly those who want to go in and buy a home now. 

 I have a former researcher's who's making a very good living.  He lives in Palo Alto.  He's from the Bay Area.  He and his wife make about $125,000 a year between then.  And he told me the other day--and this is a Silicon Valley guy as much as you'll ever find.  And he just said, `You know what?  At $125,000 a year, I can never buy a home, and I'm starting to look in Nevada.' 

 So you're starting to see the spinoff of people to what you might call Valhallas, for one way or another, or you may see people moving to other smaller, more manageable nerdistans that haven't grown quite as large, aren't quite as expensive.  So this process, again, it is like the industrial revolution, if you will.  You know, you might have gotten to a point in Manchester, for instance, or Sheffield where it was too crowded, too ugly, too difficult, and maybe people started to look--and too expensive, people started to look for other places.  In the digital age, it happens faster.  And so I think this process will continue. 

 And I think that I find today, interestingly enough, that communities are not saying to me, `Oh, we want to be the next Silicon Valley.'  I think people don't want to be any more the next Silicon Valley than they want to be the nest Los Angeles; although, I dearly love Los Angeles and it's my home.  But people say, `I don't really know if I want to grow that way.  I want the high-tech industry, but I don't know if I want so much of it that it distorts every other part of life.' 

 GJELTEN:  And, Joel, you talk about, to the extent that people are choosing to live in the Valhallas and the nerdistans because they have the ability to make that choice, people that don't have that choice end up being more segregated from these more fortunate workers.  So you're getting, you write in your book, `more class, even racial segregation,' as part of the new geography. 

 Mr. KOTKIN:  Yes.  And I've actually learned quite a bit from students of mine.  I teach at Pepperdine University.  And I've had students who come from small towns in Washington state, oddly enough, and they talk about the sort of problem that some of these communities have.  You go to Los Angeles and the Westside of LA is all this high tech.  And then they see their communities being left behind.  And they're left behind in the most profound way, in that you have a media called the Internet, which I think is going to become more and more part of the life, particularly of upper middle-class and middle-class people.  That's where they're going to get their information and their entertainment; and whereas almost everybody had a TV.  They're going to be--40 to 50 percent of the population for a long time is not going to have access to the Internet.  So they're going to be segregated not just by place but also culturally.  They'll be getting different kinds of information. They'll have a different experience of life, different options.  And I think this is a problem that society is going to have to deal with in a very serious way. 

 And I don't think that politicians are even aware of this problem in any profound way.  And I'm not necessarily sure that the problem can be even solved in a political way.  It may have to be solved in churches and neighborhoods and communities. 

 GJELTEN:  Mm-hmm. 

 Mr. KOTKIN:  The interesting thing about the digital age is the way to address most of the issues affecting us in the digital age are really at the local level, like I mentioned in Grand Forks, North Dakota... 

 GJELTEN:  Right. 

 Mr. KOTKIN:  ...or in Manning, Iowa. 

 GJELTEN:  Right. 

 You're listening to TALK OF THE NATION from NPR News. 

 And, Joel, I have another e-mail here from J.D. Quianga(ph) in Concord, North Carolina.  He says, `I'm a member of what seems to be a growing class of `real' road warriors.  I've spent most of the last two and a half years living out of extended-stay hotels and noted quite a few workers like me in a variety of industries.  What effect is this trend having on the economic geography? And are there communities that cater to people like me?' 

 Mr. KOTKIN:  Well, I think you can find that kind of environment in any large city, particularly a lot of them are in--well, in the nerdistans or on the fringes of the nerdistans, where most people haven't lived in that place for a long time and where the environment of living is not very important.  I mean, one of the things that's really interesting, if you go from this sort of environment that Andrew Segal was trying to create and a lot of the Nerdistans around the country, is that nerdistans are places where place doesn't make that much of a difference in a way. 

 One nerdistan looks like another nerdistan.  And so--you know, in a way, it's sort of interchangeable parts.  It works efficiently, but it doesn't have a lot of, if you will, soul to it.  And so people can move from one place to another, and essentially they're going to the same restaurants, they're shopping in the same stores, they're using the same computers and they're doing the same kinds of jobs.  They're just moving from place to place.  And, you know, I guess it's sort of like the Silas Marner of the electronic age. 

 GJELTEN:  Joel, just in the 30 or so seconds that we have left, let's go back to where we started this and that's talking about the retrenchment of the new economy.  Do you see different communities now emerging successful than might have before?  And we just have a few seconds. 

 Mr. KOTKIN:  Basically, I would take a very hard look at some of the smaller cities--what I call `comeback' cities or `emerging technology regions.' Places like Huntsville, Alabama, Tulsa, Oklahoma, Oakland, California, which now, because of cost pressures, are going to seem a lot more attractive to high-tech companies and their workers. 

 GJELTEN:  And will workers have, as a result, fewer choices does that mean? Is this going to sort of constrain workers' choices a little bit? 

 Mr. KOTKIN:  Well, I think it's go--I think they're being constrained by the fact that, as the man from Mountain View talked about, some places have gotten so expensive that a new worker can't go into a particular marketplace and expect a decent quality of life.  He's going to look for something different. 

 GJELTEN:  Thank you, Joel Kotkin, author of "The New Geography: How the Digital Revolution is Reshaping the American Landscape."  He joined us from our Los Angeles bureau. 

 And for more information about Joel's ideas and the book itself, check out his Web site at www.newgeography.com. 

 Earlier, we spoke with Andrew Segal from his office in Houston, Texas. 

 Juan Williams will return tomorrow. 

 In Washington, I'm Tom Gjelten, NPR News. 

 (Credits) 

Document totn000020010713dx1300006
 

 

 U.S. stock board the Fed rocket, Treasuries tumble. 

 By Brendan Intindola 
911 words
3 January 2001
21:10
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 3 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks shot higher on Wednesday afternoon trade after the market got precisely what it wanted, a surprise reduction of interest rates by the Federal Reserve to kick start the flagging American economy. 

 Stock market bulls, desperate for relief from the Fed-engineered slowdown and further disheartened by Tuesday's news of sluggish factory activity unseen in nearly 10 years, stampeded back onto the trading floors after the Fed's surprise announcement. 

 In late afternoon trade, the Nasdaq composite was up more nearly 13 percent, or 297 points, at 2,589, rising from about 2,300 before the Fed's announcement shortly after 1 p.m. EST (1800 GMT). At the current rate, the composite is on track to log its close with its largest percentage gain ever. 

 On Tuesday, the composite closed at 2,291 after a rout of more than 7 percent, or nearly 180 points, after the news of the manufacturing slowdown pointed to further diminished economic activity. 

 Meanwhile, the Dow Jones Industrial average was up almost 3 percent, or 302 points, to 10,947. The Dow briefly breached the 11,000 mark right after the Fed news for the first time in almost two months. 

 "Hallelujah! It's been a rough ride," said Christopher Conkey, chief investment officer for Evergreen Funds. 

 "It means the light is at the end of the tunnel. It does not mean that the real economy is out of the woods by any stretch of the imagination. Liquidity has been crushed, wealth has been destroyed, and the economy is slowing down very quickly. 

 "The fundamental economic impact is positive, but it's not over. It's going to take a while," he said. 

 An interest rate cut is bullish for stocks because it ultimately lowers companies' borrowing costs. The market was hammered last year by fears that the slowing economy will hurt corporate profits. 

 The Federal Reserve cut the fed funds rate by a half percentage point to 6 percent. The central bank also cut the more symbolic discount rate on Fed loans to commercial banks by a quarter percentage point to 5.75 percent. 

 The move came four weeks ahead of the year's first meeting of the rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC). It was the first time the Fed cut interest rates between regular FOMC meetings since the fall of 1998, when a global economic crisis threatened to seize up world financial markets. 

 The Fed had raised interest rates six times since the summer of 1999, to rein in inflation. These higher borrowing costs already have hurt corporate profit growth and contributed to a slew of companies' warning of disappointing results. 

 DOLLAR SNAPS BACK ON FED NEWS 

 The euro extended steep losses against the dollar after the rate-cut surprise. 

 The single currency fell below 93 cents in the U.S. afternoon, according to Reuters data, down more than 2.5 cents from a six-month peak hit overnight and off more than 2 percent from Tuesday's New York close. 

 The euro's losses against the dollar also dragged it sharply lower against the Japanese yen. The euro fell below 105.50 yen, down more than 3 percent on the day, after scaling to a 10-month peak of 109.48 yen overnight. 

 "The markets have been begging for the drug of a rate cut to rejuvenate the U.S. consumer, the stock market and the economy. The stock market and the dollar have responded very positively," said Jeremy Fand, chief foreign exchange strategist at UBS Warburg. 

 TREASURIES EXTEND LOSSES AFTER TUESDAY RALLY 

 U.S. Treasury cash bond fell more than two full points in afternoon trade on Wednesday as U.S. stocks took off after the rate cut. "Bonds right now are overvalued. This would be a good time to sell bonds. We should see money coming out of bonds and cash and going into stocks," said Sung Won Sohn, chief economist, Wells Fargo Bank, Minneapolis, Minn. 

 The benchmark 10-year Treasury notes were 1-17/32 lower at 104-23/32, unwinding a 1-1/2 point gain on Tuesday. Their yield, which had fallen to a level not seen since February 1999 after the Nasdaq drop Tuesday, rose to 5.12 percent. 

 CRUDE OIL JUMPS 

 NYMEX crude futures extended gains Wednesday afternoon, aided by forecasts of a hefty draw in crude oil stocks while taking encouragement from a surprise Fed move cutting interest rates. 

 The market remained on the alert for further news from OPEC amid signs of consensus within the cartel for an output cut. 

 Traders said the Fed's surprise move was positive for the market. 

 The Fed's move "provides some support (to the oil markets) as the cuts made will be a huge stimulus to the economy, increasing consumer confidence and stoking nascent demand," said John Kilduff, senior vice president for risk management at Fimat Futures in New York. 

 At 3.30 p.m. (2030 GMT), NYMEX February crude traded at $27.95 a barrel, a gain of 74 cents, after surging to a fresh intraday high of $27.95. 

 The day's trade extended a 41-cent surge on Tuesday after OPEC's leading oil producer, Saudi Arabia, called for hefty output cuts when the cartel meets on January 17 in Vienna in a bid to stem a recent slide in prices. 

Document lba0000020010713dx1304cld
 

 

 How we could all catch a cold from America's economic chill. 

 By SUZY JAGGER. 
941 words
3 January 2001
Mirror
DMIRR
6
English
(c) 2001 Mirror Group Ltd

 BRITAIN UNDER THREAT FROM THE U.S. RECESSION 

 THE City braced itself yesterday amid early signs that the UK economy is about to be hit by a recession in America. 

 When the world's largest economy slows, everyone suffers - especially the UK. 

 Last week, Sir Edward George, Governor of the Bank of England warned of a slowdown, pointing out that when America sneezes, the rest of the world catches a cold. 

 And yesterday, economic figures proved him right. Growth in the UK manufacturing sector was stagnant last month. 

 The Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply said that business levels among UK manufacturers were unchanged from November - and the City blamed it on uncertainty about demand from overseas buyers, especially America - our biggest trading partner. 

 The picture looks even bleaker, with billionaire financier George Soros - the man who famously made a vast fortune when Britain withdrew from the Exchange Rate Mechanism in 1992 - predicting that the American economy will fall "hard". 

 And much also depends on whether the new president George W Bush will reduce personal or corporate taxes in the US. 

 Many UK company are dependent on sales in the States for a large portion of their profits. 

 Aggregates group Hanson derives much of its income from the US, and Britain's highly lucrative pharmaceuticals industry relies on America for sales. 

 Jeremy Batstone, head of research at NatWest Stockbrokers, said: "The two economies are closely tied. If America falls into recession, it is likely that there will be a number of negative hits on our economy." 

 In other words, a recession in America - and last night Wall Street's Nasdaq index fell nine per cent - could have a direct effect on our pockets. 

 QCOULD an American recession affect the value of UK stocks and shares? 

 AYES. A number of UK companies, such as like drugs group Glaxo SmithKline whose shares are traded in London - need America for a large proportion of its income. 

 If the American economy slows, demand for goods from the world's biggest consumer falls. 

 This could hit those UK companies with American subsidiaries, slashing their profits. And when the City sees a business making less money the company's share price will fall. 

 What's worse is that when an economy slows, companies tighten their belts and cut down on spending, hurting the smaller British firms which supply them. 

 QIF the UK is the hit by an American recession, what could that mean for interest rates? 

 ATHE last time Britain suffered a recession was at the beginning of the Nineties at the hands of the Thatcher government. Chancellor Nigel Lawson raised interest rates to stem inflation, which was spiralling out of control. 

 But the slowdown in the UK this time round is a different kettle of fish. 

 Before Christmas, the City learnt that the country's output is slowing because demand from overseas has weakened. To prevent squashing domestic demand, the Bank of England - which now controls interest rates - is sure at least to keep interest rates as they are.. or even lower them. 

 Jeremy Batstone predicts that interest rates, which have been on hold at six per cent for ten months, could fall to 5.5 per cent over the course of this year. 

 QWHAT will happen to house prices in the UK? 

 AHOUSE prices should continue to rise - though probably at a slower rate than they have over the past two years. 

 Only the brave are likely to want to invest large proportions of their savings in the stock market, which has become increasingly volatile and lost a tenth of its value last year. 

 Experts reckon that we will instead plough our savings into home improvements or moving to somewhere bigger. 

 But more importantly, when interest rates fall, mortgages become more attractive, so it is expected that a fall in the base rate this year will help the housing market grow. 

 QCOULD a recession in America affect the amount of personal credit I can get? 

 APROBABLY. High street banks tend to get twitchy when there is an slowdown. 

 They become nervous about the prospect of rising bad debts from companies which are feeling the squeeze - or from individuals who have lost savings on the stock market, or who are facing a less certain future at work. 

 QWHAT will happen to the value of the pound in my pocket and to the euro? 

 AWHEN the value of the US dollar falls, sterling tends to follow suit. 

 This makes the euro attractive to banks, companies and speculators who plough their cash into a currency which has less likelihood of depreciating. 

 And yesterday the Governor of the Bank of France reckoned Euro Zone economies will grow by three per cent this year. As the dollar and pound fall, the euro has risen to a five-month high against the US dollar. 

 And that means that if you're planning a holiday in a country such as France or Italy, your pound will buy you fewer euros - and your holiday will cost more. 

 QCOULD unemployment levels rise here? 

 AYES. When an employer feels the pinch, many companies tighten their belts. Nowhere was this more clearly seen than in America last month, when the world's biggest retailer, Wal-Mart, issued a profit warning. A number of American retailers have begun to axe jobs. 

 Jeremy Batstone points out that, while the Government had hoped that unemployment levels would fall to below one million before Christmas - they narrowly missed the target - it's unlikely that unemployment will continue to fall in the face of a slowdown. 

Document dmirr00020010710dx130095s
 

 

 Neuer Markt Starts 2001 As It Ended 2000 - Very Weakly 

 By Dan Scott 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
581 words
3 January 2001
16:51
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 FRANKFURT -(Dow Jones)- Tech shares on Germany's once high-flying Neuer Markt are slumping to start 2001, and it will take far more than a rate cut by the U.S. Federal Reserve for the growth market to recover. 

 Down 40% in 2000 and turning in an especially dismal fourth quarter, the NEMAX All-Share index started this year on a bad note, falling 224.80 points in its maiden 2001 session. It dropped again Wednesday, shedding 182.35 points to 2322.71 at 1645GMT. 

 The tech sector's benchmark NEMAX-50 index, which also took a 44% pounding in 2000 and started 2001 on a weak note, dropping 318.38 points Tuesday, also fell Wednesday. Trading in uncharted territory the index was down 194.34 points at 2320.54, or 7.8%. 

 Both indexes fell Tuesday due to weak macroeconomic data from the U.S. that signals an impending U.S. recession to some punters in Europe's stock markets. 

 Investors largely agree the Neuer Markt is oversold, but there's not much they can do. That's because punters are busy selling and short-selling, pushing stocks lower as they price a U.S. recession into the tech sector. 

 Frankfurt-based Helaba Invest portfolio manager Klaus Kusber sees the NEMAX All Share and NEMAX-50 indexes dropping to 2000 before investors will see a "bear-market rally." 

 "We need a real capitulation before things look up again," he said. 

 But before there's any bounce in techs, three things need to happen: A U.S. rate cut, signs that the U.S. is not heading for recession and a positive turn in investor sentiment toward the Neuer Markt. 

 Frankfurt traders say U.S. payroll data due out Friday will be watched very closely for further signs of just how hard the U.S. economy will be landing. If the figure declines more than is expected some foresee the Fed cutting rates by 25 basis points Friday. 

 A rate cut alone won't be enough to bring the market back though. The Neuer Markt is suffering from very negative sentiment, highlighted by the failure of positive news in recent days to drive shares higher. 

 NEMAX-50 listed ComRoad (G.RDG) shares were down 4.2% at EUR29.61, despite announcing ahead of schedule that it had beaten its 2000 sales target with revenue of EUR43.6 million - above previous guidance of EUR40.9 million. 

 Portfolio manager Klaus Stabel at Frankfurt-based brokerage ICF AG, who says the Neuer Markt's performance has been a disaster, notes that Germany's growth-share index is suffering from a serious lack of confidence. 

Profit warning after profit warning, coupled with a lack of transparency in accounting standards has dampened sentiment significantly. Sentiment is so shaken that the market is suffering from a "mass psychosis," Stabel said. 

 Starting the year off with a profit warning from Intershop Communications AG (ISHP) didn't help. The previously well-trusted e-commerce software company said late Monday it wouldn't reach its 2000 earnings targets, blaming a global slowdown on information technology spending and sales taking longer to close. 

 In addition to being well-known in European technology circles, Intershop is a share that is held by numerous U.S. mutual fund managers. 

 By Dan Scott; Dow Jones Newswires; + 49 69 297 25500; dan.scott@dowjones.com 

Document dji0000020010711dx13001so
 

 

 Shareholder Advocacy Group To Sue EM.TV Late Jan - VWD 

220 words
3 January 2001
14:48
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 MUNICH -(Dow Jones)- Shareholder advocacy group Deutsche Schutzvereinigung fuer Wertpapierbesitz wants to sue media group EM.TV & Merchandising AG (G.ETV), its Chief Executive Thomas Haffa and former Chief Financial Officer Florian Haffa late this month, German news agency VWD said Monday. 

 The DSW is currently assembling the "most fitting cases" among some 800 affected shareholders, a spokeswoman said. She doubted the company or the Haffa brothers would come to an agreement outside the courts because this would lead to a slew of other demands. 

 EM.TV shareholders are up in arms about the company's disclosure policy and an alleged breach of a share lock-up agreement by the Haffa brothers. 

 However, legal firms Tilp & Kaelberer and Rotter, which represent around 250 EM.TV shareholders, are hoping for a negotiated compensation of at least DEM15 million (EUR1=DEM1.95583) from EM.TV, VWD reported. 

 EM.TV shocked the market with a profit warning late November just weeks after it had promised to meet 2000 earnings targets. The share, which had traded around EUR120 last March, was trading down 3.2%, or 35 cents, at EUR5.29, around 1445 GMT. 

 -By Stephan Kueffner, Dow Jones Newswires; +49 69 29 72 55 00; stephan.kueffner@dowjones.newswires 

Document dji0000020010711dx13001q5
 

 

 Headlines From International Herald Tribune Wednesday 

354 words
3 January 2001
00:12
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


                        Front Page



Arafat Seeks Plan Details In Hurried Visit To US; Palestinian Remains
Uncommitted As Strife Flares Up In Gaza Strip


 Strong Euro Faces A Troubled Economic Front 

 Three Taiwanese Ships Arrive In China, Bridging An Era 

 Cambodia Assembly Sets Tribunal On "Killing Fields" 

 Instant Everything: Making The Fast Lane Faster; New Products For People With No Time To Spare 


                    Front Business Page



Output Index At 10-Year Low; US Indicator Falls For Fifth Month



Bush Faces Stack Of Trade Issues; Pacts And Disputes Await Action



Malaysian Banks Miss Merger Date



Business Is Taking Off For Embraer; Brazilian Plane Manufacturer Goes
From Strength To Strength



Newcomers Were A Drag On The Dow



               Front Page



Factory Figures Point To Fed Rate Cut



Euro Rises On Upbeat Prospects For EU Growth



AOL Members Splash US$4.6 Bln On Christmas Spending Spree



               First Business Page



Intel Unveils Digital Music Player



Accenture Counts The Cost Of Taking On New Identity



JP Morgan Executive Set To Leave After Chase Takeover



Intershop Shares Plunge 70% After Profit Warning


France Telecom Wins MobiNil
-0- 03/01/01 03-08G
                     FRONT PAGE:
-Democrat Chosen As Bush Completes Cabinet Selection
-Expectations Low As Clinton Pushes Plan With Arafat
-News Analysis: G.O.P.'s Different Wings
-Drug Shortages Become Worry At Hospitals Around Country
-Mud Yields Ghosts Of Hudson River's Past
-For A Fee, Chinese Firm Will Beg Pardon For Anyone
                 FIRST BUSINESS PAGE:
-Continuing Investor Worries Keep Stocks Falling In 2001
-Management Ex-executives Come Back To Fix Troubled Companies
-Tax-law Shift Gives Investors Tricky Choice On Asset Sales
-Factory Index Fell Sharply Last Month
-Yahoo To Try Harder To Rid Postings Of Hateful Material



0447GMT



                        FRONT PAGE:
-Clinton Presses Arafat
-Inaugural Plans Take Shape
-Hill Democrats Ready To Resist GOP Push
-Russia Targeted Torpedo
-Khmer Rouge To Face Trial
-Bush Emphasizes Loyalty
                        FIRST BUSINESS PAGE:
-Even 2000's Tech Winners Hit Hard
-For AOL, Good News And Bad
-Ford, Firestone Act On Tires
-New Year, Same Old Stock Slide
-Signs Of Weakness Boost Recession Fears
-Assessing Protections For The Disabled



0550GMT


1088

Document dji0000020010711dx13001e8
 

 

 Intershop to rethink US strategy after disastrous fourth quarter ATTENTION - ADDS share movement /// 

333 words
3 January 2001
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2001) 

 DUSSELDORF, Germany, Jan 3 (AFP) - Intershop, which suffered a fall of more than 70 percent in its share price on Tuesday, plans to rethink strategy in the United States owing to a disastrous fourth quarter, the financial chief said on Wednesday. 

 Intershop, the former leading light of the high-growth Neuer Markt, saw US sales fall 80 percent short of expectations, chief financial officer Wilfried Beeck told the business daily Handelsblatt. 

 "In future, we will concentrate only on the area of business-to- business" in the US, Beeck said. 

 Shares in Intershop, which specialises in e-commerce software, plunged by more than 70 percent on the Frankfurt stock exchange on Tuesday after the company had issued a profit warning for the fourth quarter of last year and consequently for the year as a whole. 

 The meltdown in the share price continued on Wednesday, when Intershop shares fell a further 19.3 percent to 7.86 euros in early trading. 

 The high-growth NEMAX 50 index was down 3.98 percent at 2,424.06 points. 

 Intershop had said on Tuesday that it expected to post a net loss of 30-32 million euros (28-30 million dollars) in the fourth quarter of 2000, exceeding estimated fourth-quarter sales of 28-30 million euros. 

 For the full year, Intershop expected to post net loss of 37-39 million euros on sales of 121-123 million euros, equivalent to net loss per share of 0.44-0.47 euro. 

 Nevertheless, the company insisted that the disappointing fourth quarter was not related to competitive pressures or the longer term prospects for e-business software vendors. 

 Instead, six or seven big contracts in the US had been postponed, Beeck told Handelsblatt on Wednesday. 

 However, Beeck warned that it was too early to say whether Intershop would be able to return to profit this year, even if it still had sufficient cash reserves. 

 spm/hd 

Document afpr000020010709dx1300hc4
 

 

 HI-TECHS SLIDE AFTER NASDAQ DRUBBING. 

 By Ray Heath 
575 words
3 January 2001
The Evening Standard
NS
English
(c) 2001

 City investors were again reeling against the ropes today by the overnight sell-off in the US that saw hi-tech companies take another drubbing.A fall of more than 140 points in the Dow Jones on Wall Street took some swallowing, but it was the loss of almost 180 points, or 7%, in the Nasdaq that knocked the stuffing out of punters. This was the seventh biggest one-day fall on record for the hi-tech market which has now lost almost 50% of its value in the past year alone.Brokers warn further falls are likely. They claim the ratings of many hi-tech companies are still too high compared with those of companies that make up the old economy.As a result hi-tech companies again came under the hammer in London with losses among the leaders such as Auto-nomy Corporation, down 110p at 1590p, Misys, 30p at 603p, and ARM Holdings, 26p at 463p. 

  The second-liners saw Baltimore lose 21p at 298p, Psion 17p at 248p, Geo Interactive Media 30p at 655p, while internet investor Amerindo shed 6p to 59p.Down more than 75 points during the first hour of trading, the FTSE 100 index managed to reduce the deficit to 39.9 at 6134.8 in another thin trading session. It has not been the best start to the year for investors, but at least we have not experienced the record falls seen this time last year.The index was weighed down by a sell-off in Europe's biggest company Vodafone, off 6p at 2351/4p, amid fears that it may be close to acquiring Cable & Wireless's Australian subsidiary Optus. Vodafone may decide to issue further shares to finance the deal and that could lead to another bout of indigestion for the market. As a rough rule of thumb, a penny off the mobile phone operator wipes three points off the index. So investors were today inclined to focus their attention back on old-economy companies. Leading the way higher was Cadbury Schweppes, 91/2p better at 4801/2p. Brokers are hoping the great British public will have spent Christmas wading through vast lakes of soft drinks and a mountain of chocolate and other delectable confections, thereby boosting profits,There was also support for the good old dependables such as United Utilities, up 5p at 650p, Royal Bank of Scotland, 28p better at 1572p, and BAT, 8p better at 523p.Retailers stayed in focus ahead of the welter of Christmas trading statements expected soon. Great Universal Stores was the best placed blue-chip retailer, adding 8p at 538p in a thin market, but Marks & Spencer eased 11/4p at 189p. Yesterday's biggest blue chip gainer, Dixons, ticked up an-other 3p to 238p ahead of interim results from the electricals retailer next week.Second-line jeweller Signet Group, which confirmed late yesterday that it will provide a trading update tomorrow, held steady at 513/4p. The performance of its US operations will come under the spotlight following the recent profit warning from American rival Zale Corporation.NetB2B2 lost 2p to 5p. Brokers fear that the departure yesterday of director Ian Brown will mean his 1.2% stake in the company may be left overhanging the market.Aerospace and electronics specialist Meggitt rose 2p at 214p after naming Terry Twigger as its chief executive officer. 

Document ns00000020010714dx130000z
 

 

 Europe Press - WSJ Digest - Intershop shares fall on  profit warning . 

194 words
3 January 2001
04:47
FWN Select
FWS
English
(c) 2001

 Jan 02, 2001 (FWN Select via COMTEX) - Top Stories in Wednesday's Wall Street Journal Europe: 

 The euro soared to its highest level since July and traded at 94.93 U.S. cents Tuesday. Economists believe that this signals the end of the common currency's decline for nearly two years. 

 *   *   * 

 Shares of Germany's Intershop Communications, an e-commerce software 

 company, fell 68% following a profit warning about weak fourth-quarter 

 sales. The company blamed the pending slowdown in infor1/2ation technology, 

 which could weaken the entire sector. 

 *   *   * 

 In the biggest deal since Napster agreed to create a legal version of its 

 service with Bertelsmann, independent European music label Edel Music 

 agreed to distribute music over Napster's popular song-swapping service. 

 *   *   * 

 The chief executive of DaimlerChrysler, Juergen Schrempp, said he plans to 

 bring 

 American executives back in control of the company's Chrysler division. 

 This, however, would be done only after German executives complete their 

 overhaul of the troubled plant. 

 *   *   * 

 Shares of the Netherlands-based Letsbuyit.com slid 58% after the Internet 

 retailer scrambled to prevent a shutdown. 

 (C) Copyright 2001 FWN 

 . 

Document fws0000020010712dx1300554
 

 

 Europe Stocks Midday - In the red on Nasdaq rout - techs worst hit. 

1,145 words
3 January 2001
12:59
Futures World News
FWN
English
(c) Distributed via COMTEX News.

 Jan 03, 2001 (FWN Financial via COMTEX) - By BridgeNews 

 London-Jan. 3-Stock markets across Europe took a tumble Wednesday midday on the back of the Nasdaq's and Wall Otreet's sharp fall overnight, amid concerns of a U.S. recession. Technology, media and telecoms issues bore the brunt of the slide. The U.K.'s techMARK-100 index was down by as much as 5%, at a level not seen since the index's opening session in November 1999. At 1201 GMT, the FTSE Eurotop 100 Index was down 39.27 points, or 1.13%, at 3438.13. 


		  *			 *			 *




At 1201 GMT (figures rounded):



-The U.K.'s FTSE-100 index was down 66.70 points at 6108.00 (-1.08%)



-Germany's Xetra DAX-30 was down 49.33 points at 6240.49 (-0.78%)



-France's CAC-40 was down 82.12 points at 5716.78 (-1.42%)



-Italy's Mibtel was 318 points at 29516 (-1.07%)



-The Netherlands' AEX was down 0.47 points at 633.69 (-0.07%)



UNITED KINGDOM



The U.K.'s FTSE-100 benchmark stock market index fell over 1% on Wednesday morning, as European equities suffered the fall-out from another sharp sell-off on Wall Street on Tuesday amid fears of a U.S. recession. Technology stocks were hardest hit after the Nasdaq's tumble, while beverage companies also dipped after U.K. regulators surprisingly blocked the purchase of Bass Brewers in the U.K. by Belgium's Interbrew, and required Interbrew to now sell the business onto an approved buyer.



At 1208 GMT the techMARK-100 index was down 5.1% at 2360 points, the only time it has traded below 2400 since the index's opening session in November 1999. The weakest performer in the FTSE-100 for the second successive day was software developer Autonomy, which at 1212 GMT was down 12.9%. Other software companies also slumped, notably Misys (down 12.3%), -ogica (down 10.9%) and CMG (down 10.2%).



Telecoms and media companies also suffered alongside their technology cousins.



Also weak at midday was the beverages sector, following the announcement at 1100 GMT from U.K. regulators ordering Belgium's Interbrew to divest Bass Brewers in the United Kingdom. The regulator blocked the merger as it was seen as anti-competitive. Bass completed the 2.3-billion-sterling sale in August, so the ruling now leaves Interbrew to find an acceptable buyer. As a result, shares in Bass, now focused on leisure and hotel operations, was only down 0.3% at 1240 GMT. But at 1231 GMT the index of FTSE 350 beverages companies was down 3.1%, and Scottish & Newcastle shares were down 2.6%.



Elsewhere, some of the retailers were the best performers for the second successive day, which dealers attributed to optimism that Christmas trading was generally strong.



FRANCE



France's CAC-40 stock index was down at Midday after recovering some of its loses from earlier in the morning when it was down 2%. The only company to be in the black was energy group Total Fina Elf. Wednesday morning's slide was led mainly by technology stocks after the U.S.' technology-heavy Nasdaq index closed down 7% the previous day.



Telecommunications equipment maker Alcatel saw its shares sink nearly 5% to 54.65 euros while shares of Franco-Italian semi-conductor maker STMicroelectronics slumped 3.22% to 41.20 euros.



Media and communications conglomerate Vivendi Universal was down 1.76% at 66.80 euros despite news that its pay-TV arm Canal Plus would sell its 49.5% + stake in sports channel Eurosport to T3levision Francaise for 2 billion francs and will start its own sports channel. Television Francaise 1 was down 1.46% to 54.15 euros.



Car manufacturer Renault saw its shares slide 1.08% to 54.80 euros after it announced that its worldwide sales had remained stable for 2000 at 2.3 million vehicles. Franco-German pharmaceuticals group Aventis was down 1.05% at 89.20 euros after it said that it would sell its 66.6% stake in the German industrial gas producer Messer Griesheim GmbH to Allianz AG and Goldman Sachs. Energy group Total Fina Elf resisted the downward trend of the index, boosted by expectations that OPEC will reduce oil production in an attempt to raise oil prices. Total Fina Elf traded up 0.38% to 159.00 euros.



Index heavy-weight France Telecom bucked the trend of the index's other telecommunication and technology shares and enjoyed a modest gain. Its shares were up 2.29% to 88.75 euros.



GERMANY



German shares traded lower on the back of strong, overnight Nasdaq losses. Trade was thin and the majority of shares traded in the red. At 1102 GMT, the DAX-30 index traded 0.6% lower at 6250.26 points.



Technology, media and telecoms (TMT) stocks fell hardest after the Nasdaq lost more than 7% yesterday. Bad sentiment was fueled further by losses on Germany's growth market for hi-tech and biotech companies, the Neuer Markt, which fell 5.6% to 2374.92 points in early morning trade. Neuer Markt companies Intershop Communications and EM.TV dragged down the Nemax-50 index. Intershop was still suffering after a profit warning and EM.TV faces a lawsuit by disgruntled investors.



Among TMT stocks, onl1/2 former German telecoms monopoly Deutsche Telekom AG showed gains. The stock put on 2.3% to 31.93 euros on bargain hunting, dealers said. In the red, SAP AG fell 5.9% to 123.50 euros and Infineon AG dropped 4.6% to 36.0 euros following a string of negative analyst reports on the U.S. peers of the two German companies. Electronics firm Siemens AG gave up 3.2% to 132.08 euros.



Both DAX-listed insurance firms were on the rise. Allianz AG rising 1.6% to 393.50 euros and re-insurer Munich Re AG edging 2% higher to 382.55. Munich Re AG is seen by Goldman Sachs as "by far the best way to weather the current uncertain market conditions." Dresdner Bank AG did not benefit from the U.S. investment bank's comments that reiterated Dresdner's position on its recommended list. Dresdner Bank shares were 1.75% lower at 44.07 euros. HypoVereinsbank AG was flat at 59.30 euros, Commerzbank dropped 1.3% to 29.80 euros and Deutsche Bank AG fell 1.8% to 84.82 euros.



Some of last year's underperformers were also on the rise. German retailer KarstadtQuelle AG rose 2.4% to 34.70 euros, utility E.ON AG added 1.3% to 63.75 euros and MAN AG added 1.6% to 28.95 euros.



ITALY



(C) Copyright 2001 FWN



.


Document fwn0000020010712dx13001rq
 

 

 MARKET TALK: AG Edwards Says VRSN Core Long-Term Holding 

1,209 words
2 January 2001
19:44
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



2:44 (Dow Jones) Shares of VeriSign (VRSN) are getting hit hard on a
Robertson Stephens downgrade of the Internet sector, but A.G. Edwards
says the "broad brush" shouldn't paint the company. A.G. Edwards
believes Internet security is a trend that will continue to show
"phenomenal" growth through this year and beyond. "For investors willing
to ride through this period of inherent volatility and uncertainty,
VeriSign is a core holding in the long run," says analyst John
Puricelli. (TG)



2:36 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps hit limit down, 32 points lower, falling
to 1303 at 2:29 p.m. ET. A 10-minute trading curb is in effect. If the
market remains at limit down, a 2-minute trading halt will occur. The
next limit is 65 points lower. (DMC)



2:24 (Dow Jones) First it was the election, then tax-loss selling, now
it's stagflation. Regardless of the excuse, stocks extending weakness.
While semis are in midst of nice intraday turnaround, tech in general
stinks. Nasdaq 100 off 7.5%, Nasdaq Computer index down 7.6%, and Nasdaq
telecom index drops 6.2%. New 52-week lows abound, and Nasdaq Composite
is not too far from Dec. 21 low of 2288. DJIA off 145 at 10641, Nasdaq
Composite drops 153 to 2315, and S&P 500 falls 32 to 1288. (TG)



2:12 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD is inching toward 95 cents, well supported by
the weak NAPM report. Last time euro was trading above 95 cents was July
12. It's at $0.9488, slightly off high intra-day high of $0.9496. (CSE)



1:57 (Dow Jones) Salomon Smith Barney analyst Jack Grubman strongly
reiterates buy on WorldCom (WCOM), the firm's top pick in telecom
services. Believes company will hit 4Q 12%-14% revenue growth guidance,
and says WCOM still possesses best set of global network and IP assets
to address needs of corporate enterprises. Price target is $45. (TG)



1:41 (Dow Jones) After a bounce mid-morning off session lows, traders
say they believe March S&Ps and Nasdaq will begin to retest the low.
"The bounce in the Nasdaq was nice, but it was one to sell," he says.
"Considering we were down 5%, the bounce back was nothing." As for the
light volume, the trader says it takes a few days for volume to get back
after the holiday. (DMC)



1:36 (Dow Jones) With a big December, small-cap names managed to
outduel large-caps again in 2000, the second straight year of
outperformance. Prudential's Steven DeSanctis notes that when small-caps
beat large-caps in a down year, they usually go on to outperform them in
the subsequent year. He also notes small-cap value beat growth by its
widest margin ever in 2000. (TG)



1:15 (Dow Jones) Business-to-business players and Internet software
vendors are slumping in heavy trading in the wake of a profit warning
from European star Intershop Communications (ISHP). Intershop, which
blammed its shortfall on slack demand from major corporations for its
e-commerce platform, has heightened fears of slowing technology
spending. Its stock has fallen two-thirds and is pressuring many of its
U.S. counterparts. Among those down 15% or more are rivals BroadVision
(BVSN), Art Technology (ARTG) and Blue Martini (BLUE). (MLP)



1:03 (Dow Jones) U.S. Bancorp market strategy chief Brian Belski
believes the market is  entering a "transitional stage" in which stocks
will return in the 8%-10% range for a few years, compared with 25%-30%
of the past three or four years. A re-examination of "investing
disciplines and strategies" and "the scars of 2000" will put a "collar"
on price performance, he said. (MER)



12:47 (Dow Jones) Gazing into his crystal ball, Gruntal investment
guru Joe Battipaglia sees several reasons to expect above-average
returns for stocks in 2001. Chief among them, the likelihood of a
combined 75- to 100-basis-point Fed short-term rate cut this year. He
also believes contraction is mostly done, with irrational exuberance
having given way to "more disciplined" valuation. (MER)



12:28 (Dow Jones) Andrx Corp. (ADRX) removed some of the uncertainty
that weighed its shares down. It came to an understanding with GenPharm
Inc. by confirming Andrx's status as the first to file an application
with the FDA for a generic version of Prilosec, AstraZeneca PLC's (AZN)
ulcer medicine. As a result, Andrx avoids litigation with GenPharma and
can enjoy 180 days of exclusivity for its generic drug, establish market
share, and gain sales at higher prices when faced with several generic
rivals. Andrx shares rose 18%. (BMM)



12:16 (Dow Jones) Tyson Foods (TSN) CEO John Tyson is discounting the
downdraft in his company's stock over the pending IBP acquisition. He
says acquiring the beef giant is "a unique opportunity" that
shareholders will appreciate down the line. Tyson predicts the deal will
be wrapped up by Valentine's Day. (RLG)



12:07 (Dow Jones) Fears of slowing economy still weighing on corporate
yields, leaving the market languishing as Treasurys rally. Telecom yield
spreads, battered in recent weeks on credit concerns, another 5 bp wider
on long end. (DA)



11:59 (Dow Jones) Bondtalk.com analyst Anthony Crescenzi says the Fed
may choose to act Friday if payroll numbers come in weaker than
expected. Crescenzi contends that "Greenspan has shown a preference for
acting on payroll statistics, having cut rates four times on payroll
Fridays in 1991." (CMN)



11:54 (Dow Jones) UBS Warburg strategist Ed Kerschner reiterates that
stocks currently offer one of the five best buying opportunities of the
past 20 years. He notes that in the previous four periods of 15%-plus
appreciation in the past 20 years, the negative effect on stocks of
declining earnings was more than offset by the positive effect of Fed
easings, a scenario that could well be repeated this year. (TG)



11:39 (Dow Jones) In a renegotiation of its pact to merge with
Intermedia Communications Inc. (ICIX), WorldCom Inc. (WCOM) could divert
some of the stock payment to Digex Inc. (DIGX) shareholders, said Aryeh
Bourkoff, a high-yield analyst at UBS Warburg. A lawsuit filed by
minority shareholders of Intermedia subsidiary Digex has thrown the
merger into question and widened the spread between the two partners as
WorldCom has repeatedly declined to comment on intention to proceed with
the merger. In an S-4 filed Friday, WorldCom repeated that it expects
the merger to close in the first quarter, but declined to comment
publicly. (CBN)



11:29 (Dow Jones) Floor technical trader says to keep an eye around
the 1313 level on March S&Ps, which is the half-way back level between
the Nov. low of 1270 and the recent high. "We've been taking out support
fast and that suggests no one knows where this is going to end," he
says. "But when you look at it, we're still in mid-range." (DMC)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx12000iu
 

 

 MARKET TALK: Salomon Reits Buy On WCOM, Target Is $45 

936 words
2 January 2001
18:58
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



1:57 (Dow Jones) Salomon Smith Barney analyst Jack Grubman strongly
reiterates buy on WorldCom (WCOM), the firm's top pick in telecom
services. Believes company will hit 4Q 12%-14% revenue growth guidance,
and says WCOM still possesses best set of global network and IP assets
to address needs of corporate enterprises. Price target is $45. (TG)



1:41 (Dow Jones) After a bounce mid-morning off session lows, traders
say they believe March S&Ps and Nasdaq will begin to retest the low.
"The bounce in the Nasdaq was nice, but it was one to sell," he says.
"Considering we were down 5%, the bounce back was nothing." As for the
light volume, the trader says it takes a few days for volume to get back
after the holiday. (DMC)



1:36 (Dow Jones) With a big December, small-cap names managed to
outduel large-caps again in 2000, the second straight year of
outperformance. Prudential's Steven DeSanctis notes that when small-caps
beat large-caps in a down year, they usually go on to outperform them in
the subsequent year. He also notes small-cap value beat growth by its
widest margin ever in 2000. (TG)



1:15 (Dow Jones) Business-to-business players and Internet software
vendors are slumping in heavy trading in the wake of a profit warning
from European star Intershop Communications (ISHP). Intershop, which
blammed its shortfall on slack demand from major corporations for its
e-commerce platform, has heightened fears of slowing technology
spending. Its stock has fallen two-thirds and is pressuring many of its
U.S. counterparts. Among those down 15% or more are rivals BroadVision
(BVSN), Art Technology (ARTG) and Blue Martini (BLUE). (MLP)



1:03 (Dow Jones) U.S. Bancorp market strategy chief Brian Belski
believes the market is  entering a "transitional stage" in which stocks
will return in the 8%-10% range for a few years, compared with 25%-30%
of the past three or four years. A re-examination of "investing
disciplines and strategies" and "the scars of 2000" will put a "collar"
on price performance, he said. (MER)



12:47 (Dow Jones) Gazing into his crystal ball, Gruntal investment
guru Joe Battipaglia sees several reasons to expect above-average
returns for stocks in 2001. Chief among them, the likelihood of a
combined 75- to 100-basis-point Fed short-term rate cut this year. He
also believes contraction is mostly done, with irrational exuberance
having given way to "more disciplined" valuation. (MER)



12:28 (Dow Jones) Andrx Corp. (ADRX) removed some of the uncertainty
that weighed its shares down. It came to an understanding with GenPharm
Inc. by confirming Andrx's status as the first to file an application
with the FDA for a generic version of Prilosec, AstraZeneca PLC's (AZN)
ulcer medicine. As a result, Andrx avoids litigation with GenPharma and
can enjoy 180 days of exclusivity for its generic drug, establish market
share, and gain sales at higher prices when faced with several generic
rivals. Andrx shares rose 18%. (BMM)



12:16 (Dow Jones) Tyson Foods (TSN) CEO John Tyson is discounting the
downdraft in his company's stock over the pending IBP acquisition. He
says acquiring the beef giant is "a unique opportunity" that
shareholders will appreciate down the line. Tyson predicts the deal will
be wrapped up by Valentine's Day. (RLG)



12:07 (Dow Jones) Fears of slowing economy still weighing on corporate
yields, leaving the market languishing as Treasurys rally. Telecom yield
spreads, battered in recent weeks on credit concerns, another 5 bp wider
on long end. (DA)



11:59 (Dow Jones) Bondtalk.com analyst Anthony Crescenzi says the Fed
may choose to act Friday if payroll numbers come in weaker than
expected. Crescenzi contends that "Greenspan has shown a preference for
acting on payroll statistics, having cut rates four times on payroll
Fridays in 1991." (CMN)



11:54 (Dow Jones) UBS Warburg strategist Ed Kerschner reiterates that
stocks currently offer one of the five best buying opportunities of the
past 20 years. He notes that in the previous four periods of 15%-plus
appreciation in the past 20 years, the negative effect on stocks of
declining earnings was more than offset by the positive effect of Fed
easings, a scenario that could well be repeated this year. (TG)



11:39 (Dow Jones) In a renegotiation of its pact to merge with
Intermedia Communications Inc. (ICIX), WorldCom Inc. (WCOM) could divert
some of the stock payment to Digex Inc. (DIGX) shareholders, said Aryeh
Bourkoff, a high-yield analyst at UBS Warburg. A lawsuit filed by
minority shareholders of Intermedia subsidiary Digex has thrown the
merger into question and widened the spread between the two partners as
WorldCom has repeatedly declined to comment on intention to proceed with
the merger. In an S-4 filed Friday, WorldCom repeated that it expects
the merger to close in the first quarter, but declined to comment
publicly. (CBN)



11:29 (Dow Jones) Floor technical trader says to keep an eye around
the 1313 level on March S&Ps, which is the half-way back level between
the Nov. low of 1270 and the recent high. "We've been taking out support
fast and that suggests no one knows where this is going to end," he
says. "But when you look at it, we're still in mid-range." (DMC)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx12000h9
 

 

 MARKET TALK: ICI Revises Nov. Flows Into Stock Funds 

1,329 words
2 January 2001
21:29
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



4:28 (Dow Jones) It turns out November was an even tougher month for
mutual fund managers than it orignally appeared. The Investment Company
Institute revised the amount of new money flowing into stock funds in
November down to $5.68 billion - a 70% drop from October. Last week, ICI
reported new cash flowing into stock funds fell 50% to $8.82 billion.
ICI said all of the revision was in cash flow to the global stock fund
category, indicating that stock funds investing abroad lost just over $6
billion to investor desertions in November, compared with $206 million
in October. (AMB)



4:08 (Dow Jones) Last year we were saying it would be nice if the
Nasdaq Composite could act like the Dow Industrials, but this isn't what
we had in mind. Losses on both indexes Tuesday mirror each other for
most of the session, though the DJIA came back a bit late. GE falls
9.4%, EMC sheds 18%, CSCO drops 13%, and BA loses 6%. Nasdaq 100 falls
9%, and techs get shredded. First round of economic data, in the form of
NAPM, goes to those looking for rate cut soon. A weak payroll report
Friday could get it done. DJIA falls 140 to 10646, S&P falls 37 to 1283,
and Nasdaq sheds 178 to 2291 (preliminary). (TG)



3:40 (Dow Jones) Junk bonds put in their best performance of last year
in December, returning 2.17% on Merrill Lynch's High Yield Master Index.
But that was still worse than Treasurys, which had a 2.98% return, and
spreads widened a bit to 881 BP over 10-year Treasurys. (RTB)



3:31 (Dow Jones) Calif. utility bonds continue recovering as last
week's panic over power crisis ebbs. Southern Cal Edison's unsecured
10-year paper, trading at dollar price of 76 Friday, now bid at 85 and
offered at 88. Investors expect utilities to get rate relief and stave
off bankruptcy. (DA)



3:18 (Dow Jones) In the "not-how-you-want-to-start-the-year" category:
The Wall Street Journal greeted General Electric (GE) with a front-page
story Tuesday highlighting problems with its CF-6 jet engines. The
report has helped to knock the stock down close to its 52-week low of
$41.65 despite analysts' and management's view that the engine issue is
old news and won't impact earnings at all. Concern about a weakening
economy is also hurting the stock. But many money managers remain
strongly bullish on GE. "GE is positioned better than any of its peers,"
said Mike Holton of T.Rowe Price. (CCW)



3:04 (Dow Jones) Nasdaq Composite takes out Dec. 21, 2000, intraday
low of 2288. Off 183 at 2287. DJIA down 156 at 10629. (TG)



3:04 (Dow Jones) "I believe that given the lack of signs of current or
future inflation, the Federal Reserve should cut interest rates
immediately, and not wait until the end of the month," said Rep. Saxton,
Joint Economic Committee vice chairman. "An inter-meeting cut in
interest rates is appropriate in the current environment created, in
part, by an overly tight" Fed. (JC)



2:56 (Dow Jones) Software stocks are getting pummeled in heavy selling
Tuesday pushing the Goldman Sachs software index down 13%. The shorts
are having their druthers, one market watcher says, amid fears that
scaled back IT spending will prompt more pre-announcements or result in
weak quarterly reports. Among those stocks dropping 25% or more: Veritas
(VRTS), Commerce One (CMRC), Manugistics (MANU) and i2 Technologies
(ITWO). (MLP)



2:49 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude rebounds after tracking heating oil
futures lower earlier in the session. No news cited. Trading remains
light and choppy, with most of the action on the nearby contracts.
Front-month Feb.-March spread widens to as much as 69 cents, reflecting
buying interest in the front month contract. Feb. up 55c at $27.35.
Short-term resistance at $27.45, $28. (MXF)



2:44 (Dow Jones) Shares of VeriSign (VRSN) are getting hit hard on a
Robertson Stephens downgrade of the Internet sector, but A.G. Edwards
says the "broad brush" shouldn't paint the company. A.G. Edwards
believes Internet security is a trend that will continue to show
"phenomenal" growth through this year and beyond. "For investors willing
to ride through this period of inherent volatility and uncertainty,
VeriSign is a core holding in the long run," says analyst John
Puricelli. (TG)



2:36 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps hit limit down, 32 points lower, falling
to 1303 at 2:29 p.m. ET. A 10-minute trading curb is in effect. If the
market remains at limit down, a 2-minute trading halt will occur. The
next limit is 65 points lower. (DMC)



2:24 (Dow Jones) First it was the election, then tax-loss selling, now
it's stagflation. Regardless of the excuse, stocks extending weakness.
While semis are in midst of nice intraday turnaround, tech in general
stinks. Nasdaq 100 off 7.5%, Nasdaq Computer index down 7.6%, and Nasdaq
telecom index drops 6.2%. New 52-week lows abound, and Nasdaq Composite
is not too far from Dec. 21 low of 2288. DJIA off 145 at 10641, Nasdaq
Composite drops 153 to 2315, and S&P 500 falls 32 to 1288. (TG)



2:12 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD is inching toward 95 cents, well supported by
the weak NAPM report. Last time euro was trading above 95 cents was July
12. It's at $0.9488, slightly off high intra-day high of $0.9496. (CSE)



1:57 (Dow Jones) Salomon Smith Barney analyst Jack Grubman strongly
reiterates buy on WorldCom (WCOM), the firm's top pick in telecom
services. Believes company will hit 4Q 12%-14% revenue growth guidance,
and says WCOM still possesses best set of global network and IP assets
to address needs of corporate enterprises. Price target is $45. (TG)



1:41 (Dow Jones) After a bounce mid-morning off session lows, traders
say they believe March S&Ps and Nasdaq will begin to retest the low.
"The bounce in the Nasdaq was nice, but it was one to sell," he says.
"Considering we were down 5%, the bounce back was nothing." As for the
light volume, the trader says it takes a few days for volume to get back
after the holiday. (DMC)



1:36 (Dow Jones) With a big December, small-cap names managed to
outduel large-caps again in 2000, the second straight year of
outperformance. Prudential's Steven DeSanctis notes that when small-caps
beat large-caps in a down year, they usually go on to outperform them in
the subsequent year. He also notes small-cap value beat growth by its
widest margin ever in 2000. (TG)



1:15 (Dow Jones) Business-to-business players and Internet software
vendors are slumping in heavy trading in the wake of a profit warning
from European star Intershop Communications (ISHP). Intershop, which
blammed its shortfall on slack demand from major corporations for its
e-commerce platform, has heightened fears of slowing technology
spending. Its stock has fallen two-thirds and is pressuring many of its
U.S. counterparts. Among those down 15% or more are rivals BroadVision
(BVSN), Art Technology (ARTG) and Blue Martini (BLUE). (MLP)



1:03 (Dow Jones) U.S. Bancorp market strategy chief Brian Belski
believes the market is  entering a "transitional stage" in which stocks
will return in the 8%-10% range for a few years, compared with 25%-30%
of the past three or four years. A re-examination of "investing
disciplines and strategies" and "the scars of 2000" will put a "collar"
on price performance, he said. (MER)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx12000pq
 

 

 MARKET TALK: Junk Bonds Ended Year On High Note, Sort Of 

1,107 words
2 January 2001
20:40
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



3:40 (Dow Jones) Junk bonds put in their best performance of last year
in December, returning 2.17% on Merrill Lynch's High Yield Master Index.
But that was still worse than Treasurys, which had a 2.98% return, and
spreads widened a bit to 881 BP over 10-year Treasurys. (RTB)



3:31 (Dow Jones) Calif. utility bonds continue recovering as last
week's panic over power crisis ebbs. Southern Cal Edison's unsecured
10-year paper, trading at dollar price of 76 Friday, now bid at 85 and
offered at 88. Investors expect utilities to get rate relief and stave
off bankruptcy. (DA)



3:18 (Dow Jones) In the "not-how-you-want-to-start-the-year" category:
The Wall Street Journal greeted General Electric (GE) with a front-page
story Tuesday highlighting problems with its CF-6 jet engines. The
report has helped to knock the stock down close to its 52-week low of
$41.65 despite analysts' and management's view that the engine issue is
old news and won't impact earnings at all. Concern about a weakening
economy is also hurting the stock. But many money managers remain
strongly bullish on GE. "GE is positioned better than any of its peers,"
said Mike Holton of T.Rowe Price. (CCW)



3:04 (Dow Jones) Nasdaq Composite takes out Dec. 21, 2000, intraday
low of 2288. Off 183 at 2287. DJIA down 156 at 10629. (TG)



3:04 (Dow Jones) "I believe that given the lack of signs of current or
future inflation, the Federal Reserve should cut interest rates
immediately, and not wait until the end of the month," said Rep. Saxton,
Joint Economic Committee vice chairman. "An inter-meeting cut in
interest rates is appropriate in the current environment created, in
part, by an overly tight" Fed. (JC)



2:56 (Dow Jones) Software stocks are getting pummeled in heavy selling
Tuesday pushing the Goldman Sachs software index down 13%. The shorts
are having their druthers, one market watcher says, amid fears that
scaled back IT spending will prompt more pre-announcements or result in
weak quarterly reports. Among those stocks dropping 25% or more: Veritas
(VRTS), Commerce One (CMRC), Manugistics (MANU) and i2 Technologies
(ITWO). (MLP)



2:49 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude rebounds after tracking heating oil
futures lower earlier in the session. No news cited. Trading remains
light and choppy, with most of the action on the nearby contracts.
Front-month Feb.-March spread widens to as much as 69 cents, reflecting
buying interest in the front month contract. Feb. up 55c at $27.35.
Short-term resistance at $27.45, $28. (MXF)



2:44 (Dow Jones) Shares of VeriSign (VRSN) are getting hit hard on a
Robertson Stephens downgrade of the Internet sector, but A.G. Edwards
says the "broad brush" shouldn't paint the company. A.G. Edwards
believes Internet security is a trend that will continue to show
"phenomenal" growth through this year and beyond. "For investors willing
to ride through this period of inherent volatility and uncertainty,
VeriSign is a core holding in the long run," says analyst John
Puricelli. (TG)



2:36 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps hit limit down, 32 points lower, falling
to 1303 at 2:29 p.m. ET. A 10-minute trading curb is in effect. If the
market remains at limit down, a 2-minute trading halt will occur. The
next limit is 65 points lower. (DMC)



2:24 (Dow Jones) First it was the election, then tax-loss selling, now
it's stagflation. Regardless of the excuse, stocks extending weakness.
While semis are in midst of nice intraday turnaround, tech in general
stinks. Nasdaq 100 off 7.5%, Nasdaq Computer index down 7.6%, and Nasdaq
telecom index drops 6.2%. New 52-week lows abound, and Nasdaq Composite
is not too far from Dec. 21 low of 2288. DJIA off 145 at 10641, Nasdaq
Composite drops 153 to 2315, and S&P 500 falls 32 to 1288. (TG)



2:12 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD is inching toward 95 cents, well supported by
the weak NAPM report. Last time euro was trading above 95 cents was July
12. It's at $0.9488, slightly off high intra-day high of $0.9496. (CSE)



1:57 (Dow Jones) Salomon Smith Barney analyst Jack Grubman strongly
reiterates buy on WorldCom (WCOM), the firm's top pick in telecom
services. Believes company will hit 4Q 12%-14% revenue growth guidance,
and says WCOM still possesses best set of global network and IP assets
to address needs of corporate enterprises. Price target is $45. (TG)



1:41 (Dow Jones) After a bounce mid-morning off session lows, traders
say they believe March S&Ps and Nasdaq will begin to retest the low.
"The bounce in the Nasdaq was nice, but it was one to sell," he says.
"Considering we were down 5%, the bounce back was nothing." As for the
light volume, the trader says it takes a few days for volume to get back
after the holiday. (DMC)



1:36 (Dow Jones) With a big December, small-cap names managed to
outduel large-caps again in 2000, the second straight year of
outperformance. Prudential's Steven DeSanctis notes that when small-caps
beat large-caps in a down year, they usually go on to outperform them in
the subsequent year. He also notes small-cap value beat growth by its
widest margin ever in 2000. (TG)



1:15 (Dow Jones) Business-to-business players and Internet software
vendors are slumping in heavy trading in the wake of a profit warning
from European star Intershop Communications (ISHP). Intershop, which
blammed its shortfall on slack demand from major corporations for its
e-commerce platform, has heightened fears of slowing technology
spending. Its stock has fallen two-thirds and is pressuring many of its
U.S. counterparts. Among those down 15% or more are rivals BroadVision
(BVSN), Art Technology (ARTG) and Blue Martini (BLUE). (MLP)



1:03 (Dow Jones) U.S. Bancorp market strategy chief Brian Belski
believes the market is  entering a "transitional stage" in which stocks
will return in the 8%-10% range for a few years, compared with 25%-30%
of the past three or four years. A re-examination of "investing
disciplines and strategies" and "the scars of 2000" will put a "collar"
on price performance, he said. (MER)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx12000mh
 

 

 MARKET TALK: Calif. Utility Bonds Get Bump Higher 

1,051 words
2 January 2001
20:31
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



3:31 (Dow Jones) Calif. utility bonds continue recovering as last
week's panic over power crisis ebbs. Southern Cal Edison's unsecured
10-year paper, trading at dollar price of 76 Friday, now bid at 85 and
offered at 88. Investors expect utilities to get rate relief and stave
off bankruptcy. (DA)



3:18 (Dow Jones) In the "not-how-you-want-to-start-the-year" category:
The Wall Street Journal greeted General Electric (GE) with a front-page
story Tuesday highlighting problems with its CF-6 jet engines. The
report has helped to knock the stock down close to its 52-week low of
$41.65 despite analysts' and management's view that the engine issue is
old news and won't impact earnings at all. Concern about a weakening
economy is also hurting the stock. But many money managers remain
strongly bullish on GE. "GE is positioned better than any of its peers,"
said Mike Holton of T.Rowe Price. (CCW)



3:04 (Dow Jones) Nasdaq Composite takes out Dec. 21, 2000, intraday
low of 2288. Off 183 at 2287. DJIA down 156 at 10629. (TG)



3:04 (Dow Jones) "I believe that given the lack of signs of current or
future inflation, the Federal Reserve should cut interest rates
immediately, and not wait until the end of the month," said Rep. Saxton,
Joint Economic Committee vice chairman. "An inter-meeting cut in
interest rates is appropriate in the current environment created, in
part, by an overly tight" Fed. (JC)



2:56 (Dow Jones) Software stocks are getting pummeled in heavy selling
Tuesday pushing the Goldman Sachs software index down 13%. The shorts
are having their druthers, one market watcher says, amid fears that
scaled back IT spending will prompt more pre-announcements or result in
weak quarterly reports. Among those stocks dropping 25% or more: Veritas
(VRTS), Commerce One (CMRC), Manugistics (MANU) and i2 Technologies
(ITWO). (MLP)



2:49 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude rebounds after tracking heating oil
futures lower earlier in the session. No news cited. Trading remains
light and choppy, with most of the action on the nearby contracts.
Front-month Feb.-March spread widens to as much as 69 cents, reflecting
buying interest in the front month contract. Feb. up 55c at $27.35.
Short-term resistance at $27.45, $28. (MXF)



2:44 (Dow Jones) Shares of VeriSign (VRSN) are getting hit hard on a
Robertson Stephens downgrade of the Internet sector, but A.G. Edwards
says the "broad brush" shouldn't paint the company. A.G. Edwards
believes Internet security is a trend that will continue to show
"phenomenal" growth through this year and beyond. "For investors willing
to ride through this period of inherent volatility and uncertainty,
VeriSign is a core holding in the long run," says analyst John
Puricelli. (TG)



2:36 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps hit limit down, 32 points lower, falling
to 1303 at 2:29 p.m. ET. A 10-minute trading curb is in effect. If the
market remains at limit down, a 2-minute trading halt will occur. The
next limit is 65 points lower. (DMC)



2:24 (Dow Jones) First it was the election, then tax-loss selling, now
it's stagflation. Regardless of the excuse, stocks extending weakness.
While semis are in midst of nice intraday turnaround, tech in general
stinks. Nasdaq 100 off 7.5%, Nasdaq Computer index down 7.6%, and Nasdaq
telecom index drops 6.2%. New 52-week lows abound, and Nasdaq Composite
is not too far from Dec. 21 low of 2288. DJIA off 145 at 10641, Nasdaq
Composite drops 153 to 2315, and S&P 500 falls 32 to 1288. (TG)



2:12 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD is inching toward 95 cents, well supported by
the weak NAPM report. Last time euro was trading above 95 cents was July
12. It's at $0.9488, slightly off high intra-day high of $0.9496. (CSE)



1:57 (Dow Jones) Salomon Smith Barney analyst Jack Grubman strongly
reiterates buy on WorldCom (WCOM), the firm's top pick in telecom
services. Believes company will hit 4Q 12%-14% revenue growth guidance,
and says WCOM still possesses best set of global network and IP assets
to address needs of corporate enterprises. Price target is $45. (TG)



1:41 (Dow Jones) After a bounce mid-morning off session lows, traders
say they believe March S&Ps and Nasdaq will begin to retest the low.
"The bounce in the Nasdaq was nice, but it was one to sell," he says.
"Considering we were down 5%, the bounce back was nothing." As for the
light volume, the trader says it takes a few days for volume to get back
after the holiday. (DMC)



1:36 (Dow Jones) With a big December, small-cap names managed to
outduel large-caps again in 2000, the second straight year of
outperformance. Prudential's Steven DeSanctis notes that when small-caps
beat large-caps in a down year, they usually go on to outperform them in
the subsequent year. He also notes small-cap value beat growth by its
widest margin ever in 2000. (TG)



1:15 (Dow Jones) Business-to-business players and Internet software
vendors are slumping in heavy trading in the wake of a profit warning
from European star Intershop Communications (ISHP). Intershop, which
blammed its shortfall on slack demand from major corporations for its
e-commerce platform, has heightened fears of slowing technology
spending. Its stock has fallen two-thirds and is pressuring many of its
U.S. counterparts. Among those down 15% or more are rivals BroadVision
(BVSN), Art Technology (ARTG) and Blue Martini (BLUE). (MLP)



1:03 (Dow Jones) U.S. Bancorp market strategy chief Brian Belski
believes the market is  entering a "transitional stage" in which stocks
will return in the 8%-10% range for a few years, compared with 25%-30%
of the past three or four years. A re-examination of "investing
disciplines and strategies" and "the scars of 2000" will put a "collar"
on price performance, he said. (MER)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx12000ld
 

 

 MARKET TALK: Saxton Says Time To Cut Rates Is Now 

1,409 words
2 January 2001
20:06
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



3:04 (Dow Jones) "I believe that given the lack of signs of current or
future inflation, the Federal Reserve should cut interest rates
immediately, and not wait until the end of the month," said Rep. Saxton,
Joint Economic Committee vice chairman. "An inter-meeting cut in
interest rates is appropriate in the current environment created, in
part, by an overly tight" Fed. (JC)



2:56 (Dow Jones) Software stocks are getting pummeled in heavy selling
Tuesday pushing the Goldman Sachs software index down 13%. The shorts
are having their druthers, one market watcher says, amid fears that
scaled back IT spending will prompt more pre-announcements or result in
weak quarterly reports. Among those stocks dropping 25% or more: Veritas
(VRTS), Commerce One (CMRC), Manugistics (MANU) and i2 Technologies
(ITWO). (MLP)



2:49 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude rebounds after tracking heating oil
futures lower earlier in the session. No news cited. Trading remains
light and choppy, with most of the action on the nearby contracts.
Front-month Feb.-March spread widens to as much as 69 cents, reflecting
buying interest in the front month contract. Feb. up 55c at $27.35.
Short-term resistance at $27.45, $28. (MXF)



2:44 (Dow Jones) Shares of VeriSign (VRSN) are getting hit hard on a
Robertson Stephens downgrade of the Internet sector, but A.G. Edwards
says the "broad brush" shouldn't paint the company. A.G. Edwards
believes Internet security is a trend that will continue to show
"phenomenal" growth through this year and beyond. "For investors willing
to ride through this period of inherent volatility and uncertainty,
VeriSign is a core holding in the long run," says analyst John
Puricelli. (TG)



2:36 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps hit limit down, 32 points lower, falling
to 1303 at 2:29 p.m. ET. A 10-minute trading curb is in effect. If the
market remains at limit down, a 2-minute trading halt will occur. The
next limit is 65 points lower. (DMC)



2:24 (Dow Jones) First it was the election, then tax-loss selling, now
it's stagflation. Regardless of the excuse, stocks extending weakness.
While semis are in midst of nice intraday turnaround, tech in general
stinks. Nasdaq 100 off 7.5%, Nasdaq Computer index down 7.6%, and Nasdaq
telecom index drops 6.2%. New 52-week lows abound, and Nasdaq Composite
is not too far from Dec. 21 low of 2288. DJIA off 145 at 10641, Nasdaq
Composite drops 153 to 2315, and S&P 500 falls 32 to 1288. (TG)



2:12 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD is inching toward 95 cents, well supported by
the weak NAPM report. Last time euro was trading above 95 cents was July
12. It's at $0.9488, slightly off high intra-day high of $0.9496. (CSE)



1:57 (Dow Jones) Salomon Smith Barney analyst Jack Grubman strongly
reiterates buy on WorldCom (WCOM), the firm's top pick in telecom
services. Believes company will hit 4Q 12%-14% revenue growth guidance,
and says WCOM still possesses best set of global network and IP assets
to address needs of corporate enterprises. Price target is $45. (TG)



1:41 (Dow Jones) After a bounce mid-morning off session lows, traders
say they believe March S&Ps and Nasdaq will begin to retest the low.
"The bounce in the Nasdaq was nice, but it was one to sell," he says.
"Considering we were down 5%, the bounce back was nothing." As for the
light volume, the trader says it takes a few days for volume to get back
after the holiday. (DMC)



1:36 (Dow Jones) With a big December, small-cap names managed to
outduel large-caps again in 2000, the second straight year of
outperformance. Prudential's Steven DeSanctis notes that when small-caps
beat large-caps in a down year, they usually go on to outperform them in
the subsequent year. He also notes small-cap value beat growth by its
widest margin ever in 2000. (TG)



1:15 (Dow Jones) Business-to-business players and Internet software
vendors are slumping in heavy trading in the wake of a profit warning
from European star Intershop Communications (ISHP). Intershop, which
blammed its shortfall on slack demand from major corporations for its
e-commerce platform, has heightened fears of slowing technology
spending. Its stock has fallen two-thirds and is pressuring many of its
U.S. counterparts. Among those down 15% or more are rivals BroadVision
(BVSN), Art Technology (ARTG) and Blue Martini (BLUE). (MLP)



1:03 (Dow Jones) U.S. Bancorp market strategy chief Brian Belski
believes the market is  entering a "transitional stage" in which stocks
will return in the 8%-10% range for a few years, compared with 25%-30%
of the past three or four years. A re-examination of "investing
disciplines and strategies" and "the scars of 2000" will put a "collar"
on price performance, he said. (MER)



12:47 (Dow Jones) Gazing into his crystal ball, Gruntal investment
guru Joe Battipaglia sees several reasons to expect above-average
returns for stocks in 2001. Chief among them, the likelihood of a
combined 75- to 100-basis-point Fed short-term rate cut this year. He
also believes contraction is mostly done, with irrational exuberance
having given way to "more disciplined" valuation. (MER)



12:28 (Dow Jones) Andrx Corp. (ADRX) removed some of the uncertainty
that weighed its shares down. It came to an understanding with GenPharm
Inc. by confirming Andrx's status as the first to file an application
with the FDA for a generic version of Prilosec, AstraZeneca PLC's (AZN)
ulcer medicine. As a result, Andrx avoids litigation with GenPharma and
can enjoy 180 days of exclusivity for its generic drug, establish market
share, and gain sales at higher prices when faced with several generic
rivals. Andrx shares rose 18%. (BMM)



12:16 (Dow Jones) Tyson Foods (TSN) CEO John Tyson is discounting the
downdraft in his company's stock over the pending IBP acquisition. He
says acquiring the beef giant is "a unique opportunity" that
shareholders will appreciate down the line. Tyson predicts the deal will
be wrapped up by Valentine's Day. (RLG)



12:07 (Dow Jones) Fears of slowing economy still weighing on corporate
yields, leaving the market languishing as Treasurys rally. Telecom yield
spreads, battered in recent weeks on credit concerns, another 5 bp wider
on long end. (DA)



11:59 (Dow Jones) Bondtalk.com analyst Anthony Crescenzi says the Fed
may choose to act Friday if payroll numbers come in weaker than
expected. Crescenzi contends that "Greenspan has shown a preference for
acting on payroll statistics, having cut rates four times on payroll
Fridays in 1991." (CMN)



11:54 (Dow Jones) UBS Warburg strategist Ed Kerschner reiterates that
stocks currently offer one of the five best buying opportunities of the
past 20 years. He notes that in the previous four periods of 15%-plus
appreciation in the past 20 years, the negative effect on stocks of
declining earnings was more than offset by the positive effect of Fed
easings, a scenario that could well be repeated this year. (TG)



11:39 (Dow Jones) In a renegotiation of its pact to merge with
Intermedia Communications Inc. (ICIX), WorldCom Inc. (WCOM) could divert
some of the stock payment to Digex Inc. (DIGX) shareholders, said Aryeh
Bourkoff, a high-yield analyst at UBS Warburg. A lawsuit filed by
minority shareholders of Intermedia subsidiary Digex has thrown the
merger into question and widened the spread between the two partners as
WorldCom has repeatedly declined to comment on intention to proceed with
the merger. In an S-4 filed Friday, WorldCom repeated that it expects
the merger to close in the first quarter, but declined to comment
publicly. (CBN)



11:29 (Dow Jones) Floor technical trader says to keep an eye around
the 1313 level on March S&Ps, which is the half-way back level between
the Nov. low of 1270 and the recent high. "We've been taking out support
fast and that suggests no one knows where this is going to end," he
says. "But when you look at it, we're still in mid-range." (DMC)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx12000jz
 

 

 MARKET TALK: Nymex Crude Rebounds, Trading Still Choppy 

1,275 words
2 January 2001
19:49
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



2:49 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude rebounds after tracking heating oil
futures lower earlier in the session. No news cited. Trading remains
light and choppy, with most of the action on the nearby contracts.
Front-month Feb.-March spread widens to as much as 69 cents, reflecting
buying interest in the front month contract. Feb. up 55c at $27.35.
Short-term resistance at $27.45, $28. (MXF)



2:44 (Dow Jones) Shares of VeriSign (VRSN) are getting hit hard on a
Robertson Stephens downgrade of the Internet sector, but A.G. Edwards
says the "broad brush" shouldn't paint the company. A.G. Edwards
believes Internet security is a trend that will continue to show
"phenomenal" growth through this year and beyond. "For investors willing
to ride through this period of inherent volatility and uncertainty,
VeriSign is a core holding in the long run," says analyst John
Puricelli. (TG)



2:36 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps hit limit down, 32 points lower, falling
to 1303 at 2:29 p.m. ET. A 10-minute trading curb is in effect. If the
market remains at limit down, a 2-minute trading halt will occur. The
next limit is 65 points lower. (DMC)



2:24 (Dow Jones) First it was the election, then tax-loss selling, now
it's stagflation. Regardless of the excuse, stocks extending weakness.
While semis are in midst of nice intraday turnaround, tech in general
stinks. Nasdaq 100 off 7.5%, Nasdaq Computer index down 7.6%, and Nasdaq
telecom index drops 6.2%. New 52-week lows abound, and Nasdaq Composite
is not too far from Dec. 21 low of 2288. DJIA off 145 at 10641, Nasdaq
Composite drops 153 to 2315, and S&P 500 falls 32 to 1288. (TG)



2:12 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD is inching toward 95 cents, well supported by
the weak NAPM report. Last time euro was trading above 95 cents was July
12. It's at $0.9488, slightly off high intra-day high of $0.9496. (CSE)



1:57 (Dow Jones) Salomon Smith Barney analyst Jack Grubman strongly
reiterates buy on WorldCom (WCOM), the firm's top pick in telecom
services. Believes company will hit 4Q 12%-14% revenue growth guidance,
and says WCOM still possesses best set of global network and IP assets
to address needs of corporate enterprises. Price target is $45. (TG)



1:41 (Dow Jones) After a bounce mid-morning off session lows, traders
say they believe March S&Ps and Nasdaq will begin to retest the low.
"The bounce in the Nasdaq was nice, but it was one to sell," he says.
"Considering we were down 5%, the bounce back was nothing." As for the
light volume, the trader says it takes a few days for volume to get back
after the holiday. (DMC)



1:36 (Dow Jones) With a big December, small-cap names managed to
outduel large-caps again in 2000, the second straight year of
outperformance. Prudential's Steven DeSanctis notes that when small-caps
beat large-caps in a down year, they usually go on to outperform them in
the subsequent year. He also notes small-cap value beat growth by its
widest margin ever in 2000. (TG)



1:15 (Dow Jones) Business-to-business players and Internet software
vendors are slumping in heavy trading in the wake of a profit warning
from European star Intershop Communications (ISHP). Intershop, which
blammed its shortfall on slack demand from major corporations for its
e-commerce platform, has heightened fears of slowing technology
spending. Its stock has fallen two-thirds and is pressuring many of its
U.S. counterparts. Among those down 15% or more are rivals BroadVision
(BVSN), Art Technology (ARTG) and Blue Martini (BLUE). (MLP)



1:03 (Dow Jones) U.S. Bancorp market strategy chief Brian Belski
believes the market is  entering a "transitional stage" in which stocks
will return in the 8%-10% range for a few years, compared with 25%-30%
of the past three or four years. A re-examination of "investing
disciplines and strategies" and "the scars of 2000" will put a "collar"
on price performance, he said. (MER)



12:47 (Dow Jones) Gazing into his crystal ball, Gruntal investment
guru Joe Battipaglia sees several reasons to expect above-average
returns for stocks in 2001. Chief among them, the likelihood of a
combined 75- to 100-basis-point Fed short-term rate cut this year. He
also believes contraction is mostly done, with irrational exuberance
having given way to "more disciplined" valuation. (MER)



12:28 (Dow Jones) Andrx Corp. (ADRX) removed some of the uncertainty
that weighed its shares down. It came to an understanding with GenPharm
Inc. by confirming Andrx's status as the first to file an application
with the FDA for a generic version of Prilosec, AstraZeneca PLC's (AZN)
ulcer medicine. As a result, Andrx avoids litigation with GenPharma and
can enjoy 180 days of exclusivity for its generic drug, establish market
share, and gain sales at higher prices when faced with several generic
rivals. Andrx shares rose 18%. (BMM)



12:16 (Dow Jones) Tyson Foods (TSN) CEO John Tyson is discounting the
downdraft in his company's stock over the pending IBP acquisition. He
says acquiring the beef giant is "a unique opportunity" that
shareholders will appreciate down the line. Tyson predicts the deal will
be wrapped up by Valentine's Day. (RLG)



12:07 (Dow Jones) Fears of slowing economy still weighing on corporate
yields, leaving the market languishing as Treasurys rally. Telecom yield
spreads, battered in recent weeks on credit concerns, another 5 bp wider
on long end. (DA)



11:59 (Dow Jones) Bondtalk.com analyst Anthony Crescenzi says the Fed
may choose to act Friday if payroll numbers come in weaker than
expected. Crescenzi contends that "Greenspan has shown a preference for
acting on payroll statistics, having cut rates four times on payroll
Fridays in 1991." (CMN)



11:54 (Dow Jones) UBS Warburg strategist Ed Kerschner reiterates that
stocks currently offer one of the five best buying opportunities of the
past 20 years. He notes that in the previous four periods of 15%-plus
appreciation in the past 20 years, the negative effect on stocks of
declining earnings was more than offset by the positive effect of Fed
easings, a scenario that could well be repeated this year. (TG)



11:39 (Dow Jones) In a renegotiation of its pact to merge with
Intermedia Communications Inc. (ICIX), WorldCom Inc. (WCOM) could divert
some of the stock payment to Digex Inc. (DIGX) shareholders, said Aryeh
Bourkoff, a high-yield analyst at UBS Warburg. A lawsuit filed by
minority shareholders of Intermedia subsidiary Digex has thrown the
merger into question and widened the spread between the two partners as
WorldCom has repeatedly declined to comment on intention to proceed with
the merger. In an S-4 filed Friday, WorldCom repeated that it expects
the merger to close in the first quarter, but declined to comment
publicly. (CBN)



11:29 (Dow Jones) Floor technical trader says to keep an eye around
the 1313 level on March S&Ps, which is the half-way back level between
the Nov. low of 1270 and the recent high. "We've been taking out support
fast and that suggests no one knows where this is going to end," he
says. "But when you look at it, we're still in mid-range." (DMC)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx12000j0
 

 

 MARKET TALK: Euro Approaching 95c Vs. Dollar 

977 words
2 January 2001
19:11
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



2:12 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD is inching toward 95 cents, well supported by
the weak NAPM report. Last time euro was trading above 95 cents was July
12. It's at $0.9488, slightly off high intra-day high of $0.9496. (CSE)



1:57 (Dow Jones) Salomon Smith Barney analyst Jack Grubman strongly
reiterates buy on WorldCom (WCOM), the firm's top pick in telecom
services. Believes company will hit 4Q 12%-14% revenue growth guidance,
and says WCOM still possesses best set of global network and IP assets
to address needs of corporate enterprises. Price target is $45. (TG)



1:41 (Dow Jones) After a bounce mid-morning off session lows, traders
say they believe March S&Ps and Nasdaq will begin to retest the low.
"The bounce in the Nasdaq was nice, but it was one to sell," he says.
"Considering we were down 5%, the bounce back was nothing." As for the
light volume, the trader says it takes a few days for volume to get back
after the holiday. (DMC)



1:36 (Dow Jones) With a big December, small-cap names managed to
outduel large-caps again in 2000, the second straight year of
outperformance. Prudential's Steven DeSanctis notes that when small-caps
beat large-caps in a down year, they usually go on to outperform them in
the subsequent year. He also notes small-cap value beat growth by its
widest margin ever in 2000. (TG)



1:15 (Dow Jones) Business-to-business players and Internet software
vendors are slumping in heavy trading in the wake of a profit warning
from European star Intershop Communications (ISHP). Intershop, which
blammed its shortfall on slack demand from major corporations for its
e-commerce platform, has heightened fears of slowing technology
spending. Its stock has fallen two-thirds and is pressuring many of its
U.S. counterparts. Among those down 15% or more are rivals BroadVision
(BVSN), Art Technology (ARTG) and Blue Martini (BLUE). (MLP)



1:03 (Dow Jones) U.S. Bancorp market strategy chief Brian Belski
believes the market is  entering a "transitional stage" in which stocks
will return in the 8%-10% range for a few years, compared with 25%-30%
of the past three or four years. A re-examination of "investing
disciplines and strategies" and "the scars of 2000" will put a "collar"
on price performance, he said. (MER)



12:47 (Dow Jones) Gazing into his crystal ball, Gruntal investment
guru Joe Battipaglia sees several reasons to expect above-average
returns for stocks in 2001. Chief among them, the likelihood of a
combined 75- to 100-basis-point Fed short-term rate cut this year. He
also believes contraction is mostly done, with irrational exuberance
having given way to "more disciplined" valuation. (MER)



12:28 (Dow Jones) Andrx Corp. (ADRX) removed some of the uncertainty
that weighed its shares down. It came to an understanding with GenPharm
Inc. by confirming Andrx's status as the first to file an application
with the FDA for a generic version of Prilosec, AstraZeneca PLC's (AZN)
ulcer medicine. As a result, Andrx avoids litigation with GenPharma and
can enjoy 180 days of exclusivity for its generic drug, establish market
share, and gain sales at higher prices when faced with several generic
rivals. Andrx shares rose 18%. (BMM)



12:16 (Dow Jones) Tyson Foods (TSN) CEO John Tyson is discounting the
downdraft in his company's stock over the pending IBP acquisition. He
says acquiring the beef giant is "a unique opportunity" that
shareholders will appreciate down the line. Tyson predicts the deal will
be wrapped up by Valentine's Day. (RLG)



12:07 (Dow Jones) Fears of slowing economy still weighing on corporate
yields, leaving the market languishing as Treasurys rally. Telecom yield
spreads, battered in recent weeks on credit concerns, another 5 bp wider
on long end. (DA)



11:59 (Dow Jones) Bondtalk.com analyst Anthony Crescenzi says the Fed
may choose to act Friday if payroll numbers come in weaker than
expected. Crescenzi contends that "Greenspan has shown a preference for
acting on payroll statistics, having cut rates four times on payroll
Fridays in 1991." (CMN)



11:54 (Dow Jones) UBS Warburg strategist Ed Kerschner reiterates that
stocks currently offer one of the five best buying opportunities of the
past 20 years. He notes that in the previous four periods of 15%-plus
appreciation in the past 20 years, the negative effect on stocks of
declining earnings was more than offset by the positive effect of Fed
easings, a scenario that could well be repeated this year. (TG)



11:39 (Dow Jones) In a renegotiation of its pact to merge with
Intermedia Communications Inc. (ICIX), WorldCom Inc. (WCOM) could divert
some of the stock payment to Digex Inc. (DIGX) shareholders, said Aryeh
Bourkoff, a high-yield analyst at UBS Warburg. A lawsuit filed by
minority shareholders of Intermedia subsidiary Digex has thrown the
merger into question and widened the spread between the two partners as
WorldCom has repeatedly declined to comment on intention to proceed with
the merger. In an S-4 filed Friday, WorldCom repeated that it expects
the merger to close in the first quarter, but declined to comment
publicly. (CBN)



11:29 (Dow Jones) Floor technical trader says to keep an eye around
the 1313 level on March S&Ps, which is the half-way back level between
the Nov. low of 1270 and the recent high. "We've been taking out support
fast and that suggests no one knows where this is going to end," he
says. "But when you look at it, we're still in mid-range." (DMC)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx12000hz
 

 

 MARKET TALK: March S&Ps, Nasdaq May Retest Day's Lows 

880 words
2 January 2001
18:41
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



1:41 (Dow Jones) After a bounce mid-morning off session lows, traders
say they believe March S&Ps and Nasdaq will begin to retest the low.
"The bounce in the Nasdaq was nice, but it was one to sell," he says.
"Considering we were down 5%, the bounce back was nothing." As for the
light volume, the trader says it takes a few days for volume to get back
after the holiday. (DMC)



1:36 (Dow Jones) With a big December, small-cap names managed to
outduel large-caps again in 2000, the second straight year of
outperformance. Prudential's Steven DeSanctis notes that when small-caps
beat large-caps in a down year, they usually go on to outperform them in
the subsequent year. He also notes small-cap value beat growth by its
widest margin ever in 2000. (TG)



1:15 (Dow Jones) Business-to-business players and Internet software
vendors are slumping in heavy trading in the wake of a profit warning
from European star Intershop Communications (ISHP). Intershop, which
blammed its shortfall on slack demand from major corporations for its
e-commerce platform, has heightened fears of slowing technology
spending. Its stock has fallen two-thirds and is pressuring many of its
U.S. counterparts. Among those down 15% or more are rivals BroadVision
(BVSN), Art Technology (ARTG) and Blue Martini (BLUE). (MLP)



1:03 (Dow Jones) U.S. Bancorp market strategy chief Brian Belski
believes the market is  entering a "transitional stage" in which stocks
will return in the 8%-10% range for a few years, compared with 25%-30%
of the past three or four years. A re-examination of "investing
disciplines and strategies" and "the scars of 2000" will put a "collar"
on price performance, he said. (MER)



12:47 (Dow Jones) Gazing into his crystal ball, Gruntal investment
guru Joe Battipaglia sees several reasons to expect above-average
returns for stocks in 2001. Chief among them, the likelihood of a
combined 75- to 100-basis-point Fed short-term rate cut this year. He
also believes contraction is mostly done, with irrational exuberance
having given way to "more disciplined" valuation. (MER)



12:28 (Dow Jones) Andrx Corp. (ADRX) removed some of the uncertainty
that weighed its shares down. It came to an understanding with GenPharm
Inc. by confirming Andrx's status as the first to file an application
with the FDA for a generic version of Prilosec, AstraZeneca PLC's (AZN)
ulcer medicine. As a result, Andrx avoids litigation with GenPharma and
can enjoy 180 days of exclusivity for its generic drug, establish market
share, and gain sales at higher prices when faced with several generic
rivals. Andrx shares rose 18%. (BMM)



12:16 (Dow Jones) Tyson Foods (TSN) CEO John Tyson is discounting the
downdraft in his company's stock over the pending IBP acquisition. He
says acquiring the beef giant is "a unique opportunity" that
shareholders will appreciate down the line. Tyson predicts the deal will
be wrapped up by Valentine's Day. (RLG)



12:07 (Dow Jones) Fears of slowing economy still weighing on corporate
yields, leaving the market languishing as Treasurys rally. Telecom yield
spreads, battered in recent weeks on credit concerns, another 5 bp wider
on long end. (DA)



11:59 (Dow Jones) Bondtalk.com analyst Anthony Crescenzi says the Fed
may choose to act Friday if payroll numbers come in weaker than
expected. Crescenzi contends that "Greenspan has shown a preference for
acting on payroll statistics, having cut rates four times on payroll
Fridays in 1991." (CMN)



11:54 (Dow Jones) UBS Warburg strategist Ed Kerschner reiterates that
stocks currently offer one of the five best buying opportunities of the
past 20 years. He notes that in the previous four periods of 15%-plus
appreciation in the past 20 years, the negative effect on stocks of
declining earnings was more than offset by the positive effect of Fed
easings, a scenario that could well be repeated this year. (TG)



11:39 (Dow Jones) In a renegotiation of its pact to merge with
Intermedia Communications Inc. (ICIX), WorldCom Inc. (WCOM) could divert
some of the stock payment to Digex Inc. (DIGX) shareholders, said Aryeh
Bourkoff, a high-yield analyst at UBS Warburg. A lawsuit filed by
minority shareholders of Intermedia subsidiary Digex has thrown the
merger into question and widened the spread between the two partners as
WorldCom has repeatedly declined to comment on intention to proceed with
the merger. In an S-4 filed Friday, WorldCom repeated that it expects
the merger to close in the first quarter, but declined to comment
publicly. (CBN)



11:29 (Dow Jones) Floor technical trader says to keep an eye around
the 1313 level on March S&Ps, which is the half-way back level between
the Nov. low of 1270 and the recent high. "We've been taking out support
fast and that suggests no one knows where this is going to end," he
says. "But when you look at it, we're still in mid-range." (DMC)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx12000gs
 

 

 MARKET TALK: History Says Small-Caps May Outperform Again 

802 words
2 January 2001
18:37
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



1:36 (Dow Jones) With a big December, small-cap names managed to
outduel large-caps again in 2000, the second straight year of
outperformance. Prudential's Steven DeSanctis notes that when small-caps
beat large-caps in a down year, they usually go on to outperform them in
the subsequent year. He also notes small-cap value beat growth by its
widest margin ever in 2000. (TG)



1:15 (Dow Jones) Business-to-business players and Internet software
vendors are slumping in heavy trading in the wake of a profit warning
from European star Intershop Communications (ISHP). Intershop, which
blammed its shortfall on slack demand from major corporations for its
e-commerce platform, has heightened fears of slowing technology
spending. Its stock has fallen two-thirds and is pressuring many of its
U.S. counterparts. Among those down 15% or more are rivals BroadVision
(BVSN), Art Technology (ARTG) and Blue Martini (BLUE). (MLP)



1:03 (Dow Jones) U.S. Bancorp market strategy chief Brian Belski
believes the market is  entering a "transitional stage" in which stocks
will return in the 8%-10% range for a few years, compared with 25%-30%
of the past three or four years. A re-examination of "investing
disciplines and strategies" and "the scars of 2000" will put a "collar"
on price performance, he said. (MER)



12:47 (Dow Jones) Gazing into his crystal ball, Gruntal investment
guru Joe Battipaglia sees several reasons to expect above-average
returns for stocks in 2001. Chief among them, the likelihood of a
combined 75- to 100-basis-point Fed short-term rate cut this year. He
also believes contraction is mostly done, with irrational exuberance
having given way to "more disciplined" valuation. (MER)



12:28 (Dow Jones) Andrx Corp. (ADRX) removed some of the uncertainty
that weighed its shares down. It came to an understanding with GenPharm
Inc. by confirming Andrx's status as the first to file an application
with the FDA for a generic version of Prilosec, AstraZeneca PLC's (AZN)
ulcer medicine. As a result, Andrx avoids litigation with GenPharma and
can enjoy 180 days of exclusivity for its generic drug, establish market
share, and gain sales at higher prices when faced with several generic
rivals. Andrx shares rose 18%. (BMM)



12:16 (Dow Jones) Tyson Foods (TSN) CEO John Tyson is discounting the
downdraft in his company's stock over the pending IBP acquisition. He
says acquiring the beef giant is "a unique opportunity" that
shareholders will appreciate down the line. Tyson predicts the deal will
be wrapped up by Valentine's Day. (RLG)



12:07 (Dow Jones) Fears of slowing economy still weighing on corporate
yields, leaving the market languishing as Treasurys rally. Telecom yield
spreads, battered in recent weeks on credit concerns, another 5 bp wider
on long end. (DA)



11:59 (Dow Jones) Bondtalk.com analyst Anthony Crescenzi says the Fed
may choose to act Friday if payroll numbers come in weaker than
expected. Crescenzi contends that "Greenspan has shown a preference for
acting on payroll statistics, having cut rates four times on payroll
Fridays in 1991." (CMN)



11:54 (Dow Jones) UBS Warburg strategist Ed Kerschner reiterates that
stocks currently offer one of the five best buying opportunities of the
past 20 years. He notes that in the previous four periods of 15%-plus
appreciation in the past 20 years, the negative effect on stocks of
declining earnings was more than offset by the positive effect of Fed
easings, a scenario that could well be repeated this year. (TG)



11:39 (Dow Jones) In a renegotiation of its pact to merge with
Intermedia Communications Inc. (ICIX), WorldCom Inc. (WCOM) could divert
some of the stock payment to Digex Inc. (DIGX) shareholders, said Aryeh
Bourkoff, a high-yield analyst at UBS Warburg. A lawsuit filed by
minority shareholders of Intermedia subsidiary Digex has thrown the
merger into question and widened the spread between the two partners as
WorldCom has repeatedly declined to comment on intention to proceed with
the merger. In an S-4 filed Friday, WorldCom repeated that it expects
the merger to close in the first quarter, but declined to comment
publicly. (CBN)



11:29 (Dow Jones) Floor technical trader says to keep an eye around
the 1313 level on March S&Ps, which is the half-way back level between
the Nov. low of 1270 and the recent high. "We've been taking out support
fast and that suggests no one knows where this is going to end," he
says. "But when you look at it, we're still in mid-range." (DMC)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx12000gg
 

 

 MARKET TALK: Intershop Woes Find Way Into U.S. Names 

1,446 words
2 January 2001
18:15
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



1:15 (Dow Jones) Business-to-business players and Internet software
vendors are slumping in heavy trading in the wake of a profit warning
from European star Intershop Communications (ISHP). Intershop, which
blammed its shortfall on slack demand from major corporations for its
e-commerce platform, has heightened fears of slowing technology
spending. Its stock has fallen two-thirds and is pressuring many of its
U.S. counterparts. Among those down 15% or more are rivals BroadVision
(BVSN), Art Technology (ARTG) and Blue Martini (BLUE). (MLP)



1:03 (Dow Jones) U.S. Bancorp market strategy chief Brian Belski
believes the market is  entering a "transitional stage" in which stocks
will return in the 8%-10% range for a few years, compared with 25%-30%
of the past three or four years. A re-examination of "investing
disciplines and strategies" and "the scars of 2000" will put a "collar"
on price performance, he said. (MER)



12:47 (Dow Jones) Gazing into his crystal ball, Gruntal investment
guru Joe Battipaglia sees several reasons to expect above-average
returns for stocks in 2001. Chief among them, the likelihood of a
combined 75- to 100-basis-point Fed short-term rate cut this year. He
also believes contraction is mostly done, with irrational exuberance
having given way to "more disciplined" valuation. (MER)



12:28 (Dow Jones) Andrx Corp. (ADRX) removed some of the uncertainty
that weighed its shares down. It came to an understanding with GenPharm
Inc. by confirming Andrx's status as the first to file an application
with the FDA for a generic version of Prilosec, AstraZeneca PLC's (AZN)
ulcer medicine. As a result, Andrx avoids litigation with GenPharma and
can enjoy 180 days of exclusivity for its generic drug, establish market
share, and gain sales at higher prices when faced with several generic
rivals. Andrx shares rose 18%. (BMM)



12:16 (Dow Jones) Tyson Foods (TSN) CEO John Tyson is discounting the
downdraft in his company's stock over the pending IBP acquisition. He
says acquiring the beef giant is "a unique opportunity" that
shareholders will appreciate down the line. Tyson predicts the deal will
be wrapped up by Valentine's Day. (RLG)



12:07 (Dow Jones) Fears of slowing economy still weighing on corporate
yields, leaving the market languishing as Treasurys rally. Telecom yield
spreads, battered in recent weeks on credit concerns, another 5 bp wider
on long end. (DA)



11:59 (Dow Jones) Bondtalk.com analyst Anthony Crescenzi says the Fed
may choose to act Friday if payroll numbers come in weaker than
expected. Crescenzi contends that "Greenspan has shown a preference for
acting on payroll statistics, having cut rates four times on payroll
Fridays in 1991." (CMN)



11:54 (Dow Jones) UBS Warburg strategist Ed Kerschner reiterates that
stocks currently offer one of the five best buying opportunities of the
past 20 years. He notes that in the previous four periods of 15%-plus
appreciation in the past 20 years, the negative effect on stocks of
declining earnings was more than offset by the positive effect of Fed
easings, a scenario that could well be repeated this year. (TG)



11:39 (Dow Jones) In a renegotiation of its pact to merge with
Intermedia Communications Inc. (ICIX), WorldCom Inc. (WCOM) could divert
some of the stock payment to Digex Inc. (DIGX) shareholders, said Aryeh
Bourkoff, a high-yield analyst at UBS Warburg. A lawsuit filed by
minority shareholders of Intermedia subsidiary Digex has thrown the
merger into question and widened the spread between the two partners as
WorldCom has repeatedly declined to comment on intention to proceed with
the merger. In an S-4 filed Friday, WorldCom repeated that it expects
the merger to close in the first quarter, but declined to comment
publicly. (CBN)



11:29 (Dow Jones) Floor technical trader says to keep an eye around
the 1313 level on March S&Ps, which is the half-way back level between
the Nov. low of 1270 and the recent high. "We've been taking out support
fast and that suggests no one knows where this is going to end," he
says. "But when you look at it, we're still in mid-range." (DMC)



11:27 (Dow Jones) DPL Inc.'s (DPL) decision Friday to explore
strategic alternatives may be a sign of just how vulnerable some small
utilities are feeling these days, said Deustche Banc Alex. Brown's James
Dobson. He says there has been talk that Conectiv (CIV) may be doing the
same. A Conectiv spokesman said the company has not announced it's
exploring options, and would not comment on the speculation. The rumors
began in mid-November after a trade publication, citing unnamed sources,
said Conectiv could put itself up for sale. Possible buyers for DPL
include Dominion Resources Inc. (D), PowerGen PLC (PWG), FirstEnergy
Corp. (FE) and Allegheny Energy Inc. (AYE), Dobson said. (CCC)



11:18 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude futures come under pressure as heating
oil futures continue to feel the pinch of a steep slide in natural gas
and above-normal weather forecasts. Traders cite National Weather
Service report forecasting above-normal temperatures in Northeast and
Midwest Jan 9-15. Feb. crude down 2 cents at $26.78, while March up 25c
at $26.23. Feb. heating oil down 3.19c at 85.90c, just above support at
85.87c. (MXF)



11:13 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps break support at 1315 as March Nasdaq
extends losses. Floor traders say the next best support comes at the
1301-1300 level. "It doesn't act like it wants to hold support," one
trader says. March Nasdaq, incidently, makes new contract low by taking
out 2213. Current low is 2195, but that's likely to change. (DMC)



11:09 (Dow Jones) Stocks near lowest levels of session, with Nasdaq
Composite off almost 6%. New talk of stagflation not helping. Nasdaq
Computer index down 7.4%. telecom index off 6.1%, and financial index
drops 4.7%. EMC off 15%, CSCO at another 52-week low. Stock players want
an inter-meeting cut. DJIA off 98 at 10690, Nasdaq down 139 at 2332.
(TG)



11:02 (Dow Jones) Banc of America's Mark Gulley is a bit more
optimistic about the specialty chemical sector, upgrading it to market
perform from underperform. In part, the sector is benefiting from the
misery of others. These days it isn't the only group posting lackluster
earnings. Furthermore, the bad news may already be in the stocks. Gulley
also expects the group to benefit from easing interest rates, increased
pricing flexibility and lower costs for some raw materials. A few
caveats: natural gas price remain high, the economy could weaken
further, and a weak yen could offset the euro's improvement. (CCC)



10:57 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq hits its second daily limit of 130
points lower, falling to 2244.50. A 10-minute trading curb is in effect.
If the market remaains at limit down, a 2 minute trading curb will
occur. (DMC)



10:49 (Dow Jones) Pall Corp. (PLL), whose stock has been a chronic
underachiever for many years, needs any dose of good news it can get.
Banc of America Securities analyst Mark Gulley supplied some well-needed
adrenaline for the sluggish stock by upgrading his recommendation to buy
from market perform. Gulley cited the stock's valuation and his
expectation of positive news regarding Pall's blood filtration business.
Pall's stock rose recently rose $1 to $22.25. (CCW)



10:45 (Dow Jones) The overall economy is probably not as weak as the
NAPM data suggest. The Dec. index is barely above recession threshold.
but with manufacturing a shrinking part of overall economy, it hasn't
been a good gauge of overall GDP. For instance, in all of 2000, the NAPM
readings correspond to GDP growth of 3.3%, though many expect it to come
in closer to 5%. (BB)



10:39 (Dow Jones) How do you feel about a sub-5% yield on all current
Treasurys? It's pretty likely following the nasty reading on the NAPM
report that helps build the case for an aggressive Fed rate cut agenda.
A number of analysts said all on-the-runs should move to a four handle,
although the 30-year bond may dance on either side. Already, the only
issues with yields above 5% are the 10-year at 5.01% and the 30-year at
5.40%. (MSD)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx12000fi
 

 The preacher:  Mark Twain and slaying Christians 

 James H Smylie 
8,356 words
1 January 2001
Theology Today
GTHE
484-500
Volume 57, Issue 4; ISSN: 0040-5736
English
 Copyright (c) 2001 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved. Copyright Theology Today Jan 2001 

 "I have always preached," Samuel Langhorne Clemens confessed in The Autobiography of Mark Twain. "That is the reason," he added, "that I have lasted thirty years." Funnymen of the "mere sort" cannot survive. For them, humor is only a "fragrance" and "decoration." Humor must not "professedly teach" or "preach," but do both if it would live "forever." "If humor came of its own and uninvited accord," Twain reflected on his own life as preacher, "I have allowed it a place in my sermon, but I was not writing the sermon for the sake of the humor. I should have written the sermon just the same whether any humor applied for admission or not." He could and did "stretch" the Bible, texts, and sermons, probably because he thought humor was one of God's chief attributes as well as his own. 1 

 Twain and his sermons lasted for more than thirty years. He is still a towering figure in American literature, humor, and pulpit. He preached in travelogues, such as Innocents Abroad (1869), novels such as Tom Sawyer (published in 1876, 125 years ago), Huckleberry Finn (1884), A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court (1889), and Captain Stormfield's Visit to Heaven (1907-08). He also produced homilies in sketches, after-dinner addresses, and comments on local, national, and world affairs. As America's number-one funnyman, he slew a lot of Christians, especially Presbyterians, from his pulpit with his funny bone as Samson slew Philistines with the jawbone of an ass. He employed irony, sarcasm, and sometimes burlesque to expose human foibles, incongruities, and the stress and strain of life, indeed, to help himself and others deal with their crying during the latter third of the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Never able to escape his religious heritage, he quarreled with God and his Christian contemporaries, using a broad range of biblical texts about, for example, Adam and Eve, Noah, and the Prodigal Son, with whom he seemed to identify. His eclectic style sounds much like the preacher of Ecclesiastes, although he seldom refers to him directly in his writings. Twain left us sermonic mirrors-concave, convex, a mixture of both-in which we still see our religious, racial, social, political, and economic selves.2 

 EARLY INFLUENCES 

 Everything Mark Twain wrote seems to be autobiographical. Born in 1835, he lived through the American drive westward to the Pacific to grab land, silver, and gold, an internecine war that was anything but civil, an industrial revolution, and America's rise to imperial power. He observed Christian efforts to evangelize, educate, and reform the nation and world through voluntary societies, and he also dealt with intellectual revolutions at century's end. What a time for a preacher! 3 

 Young Sam grew on a distinguished family tree. Father, John Marshall Clemens, and mother, Jane Lampston, stemmed from Virginia, Kentucky, and Tennessee roots with early Methodist sympathies. John practiced law, engaged in public service, and tried to accumulate and hold onto land. In the process, the family finally settled in Hannibal, MO, on the Mississippi River where Sam was born and just grew. His father died when Sam was twelve. He left his family land-rich, but without the business sense to exploit the inheritance. According to tradition, a Presbyterian preacher, Ezra Stiles Ely, founder of and professor at Marion College near Hannibal, converted Jane at a revival. He doomed her and Sam to lifelong Presbyterian captivity. Mark Twain considered his mother the deepest of pietists. She even prayed for Satan, chief of sinners. In his youth, Twain recalls, he considered becoming a Presbyterian minister because it never occurred to him that a preacher could be damned. He seemed always suspicious of camp meetings, a mixture of hysteria, hypocrisy, and sensuality that produced "camp meeting babies" as well as converts. About one, he remarked: "All converted but me. All sinners again in a week." Ely, a land speculator like Sam's father, was accused and tried for shady dealings, thus giving young Sam, with his "trained Presbyterian conscience," further questions about clergy. 

 After his father's death, young Sam enrolled in the college and seminary of hard knocks, first as a printer's apprentice and then as a cub reporter for his brother's newspaper. He began to travel to places such as St. Louis, New York, and Philadelphia and to produce sketches of his experiences. Restless, he headed south for New Orleans with plans to seek adventure and fortune in Brazil. Instead, he became a river pilot on the mighty "Miss" and learned to dodge its shoals. He adopted a pen name, "Mark Twain," the two fathoms of depth that marked the line between safe and dangerous waters. He tended to live on the edge for most of his life. Still restless after brief service with Confederate irregulars during the Civil War, he headed west to assist his brother who was an agent in the Nevada Territory. After also mining for silver, he joined the Gold Rush to California where he made a name for himself as reporter and author. 

 While he associated with Presbyterian churches in Nevada and California, his skepticism was stimulated by Thomas Paine's The Age of Reason (1794-95), to which he continually referred during his life as a preacher. The story of The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calavaras County, and Other Sketches (1867), an attack on the dangers of betting, brought him national and international fame. Jim (Leonidas) Smiley, a "reverend" and a gambler, trains a frog he claims can outjump all frogs. Another gambler slyly feeds Smiley's frog so much quail shot that during the jump-off Smiley's frog cannot even get off the ground. Twain's hilarious translation of this tall tale from French back into English brought him more notoriety. (I know this Jim Smiley and I are related, because Twain never told me otherwise!) Not all in California amused Mark Twain; he attacked ways Americans exploited Chinese immigrants to the area. 

 On assignment to tour the world, he returned east to New York in 1867. While there he gave a successful lecture at Cooper Union and attended Henry Ward Beecher's Plymouth Congregational Church to take the measure of America's illustrious preacher. Instead of proceeding around the world, Twain signed onto a grand cruise through the Mediterranean and Holy Land sponsored by Beecher's congregation. His early success whetted his appetite for the good life, but his observations of the upper class, to which he aspired, deepened his suspicions of the people with whom he longed to associate. This forced him into some agonizing compromises in his sermonizing. But at thirty-two, Twain was on his way, already full of texts and illustrations for his sermons.4 

 TRAVELOGUES 

 If Smiley's jumping frog made Twain a celebrity, The Innocents Abroad, or The New Pilgrim's Progress (1869) brought him fortune as well as more fame. In his travelogue, he warned Christians to go carefully into the house of God (Eccl 5:1). His disillusionment began almost immediately. He expected to rub elbows with celebrities on the cruise but found he was the only celebrity on the good ship, Quaker City, among a boatload of pious Christians. Beecher did not even accompany them. On his way across the Mediterranean, he was duly impressed by the splendors of ancient museums, monuments, and churches, but shocked at the squalor and misery of dying street people, completely ignored by citizens and Christian tourists alike. Moreover, he was disturbed by fellow travelers who expected to find a Baptist, Methodist, Episcopalian, or especially a Presbyterian Palestine. They were so predisposed by travel literature written by, for example, Presbyterian biblical scholar Edward Robinson and missionary William M. Thomson, to whose popular studies he refers. He was troubled by the way his companions were taken in by the humbuggery of their guides. 

 In his wanderings, he was reminded of biblical figures he had "met" in his Hannibal Sunday School. He relates, with tongue in cheek, how he met descendents of old visionary Noah. He grieved that the cattle licked up Lot's wife: "Peace to her sediment." He expressed concern for the raven that had to feed Elijah in a wilderness in which the raven could hardly feed itself. He was also of the opinion, given the treatment of tourists in Palestine, that the Samaritan Jesus refers to in the parable was probably the only "good Samaritan" the province ever produced. In the Church of the Holy Sepulcher he met Adam, Eve, and Jesus. He was overjoyed at "the tomb of Adam": 

 How touching it was, here in a land of strangers, far away from home, and friends, and all who cared for me, thus to discover the grave of a blood relation. True, a distant one, but still a relation .... I leaned upon a pillar and burst into tears .Noble old man-he did not live to see me-he did not live to see his child. And I-I-also, I did not live to see him. Weighed down by sorrow and disappointment, he died before I was born. But let us try to bear it with fortitude. Let us trust that he is better off where he is. Let us take comfort in the thought that his loss is our eternal gain. On the other hand, Twain was sobered as he stood at the place in the church where presumably Jesus was crucified. He was also depressed by the way in which various Christian bodies squabbled over the management of this holy places 

 Upon his return home with "the lost tribes of America," as he called the tourists, Twain prospered. He grew richer with the sale of his first travelogue. More skeptical, he had more texts for his sermons. Meanwhile, on his tour he fell in love with a photograph of Olivia Langdon, sister of one of the pilgrims from Elmira, NY, daughter of a prosperous businessman and former abolitionist. Twain wooed, won, and wed her in 1870, and they lived happily, on the whole, thereafter. "Livy," as he called her, served as his lifelong critic and sometime censor. Mark and Livy vacationed in Elmira and attended Thomas Beecher's Congregational church. When in Elmira, Twain advocated erecting a statue in memory to Adam on the public square. Charles Darwin, whom Twain met later in England, was shaking biblical foundations. Twain wanted to keep Adam from being replaced by the ape and soon forgotten. An attempt to gain Congressional support for this project fizzled. 

 The Clemenses took up residence in their home, Nook Farm, in Hartford, CT, near noted celebrities such as Harriet Beecher Stowe. They attended the Asylum Congregational Church. Its pastor, Joseph Twichell, became a lifelong friend and confidant. After Twain and Twichell attended Henry Ward Beecher's sensational adultery trial in New York (1875), Twain was not completely reassured about other clergy friends. Twain did crown Twichell as his "equilibrium restorer." The Clemenses had four children who brought them joy, anxiety, and sorrow. Their only son died in infancy. 

 Twain joined Livy at prayers and grace before meals. As his religious views shifted, he finally informed her that he would no longer attend family worship. As he adjusted to Yankeedom in Connecticut, this Missourian continued to preach in travel literature about his western escapades in Roughing It (1872), European life, including the awesome, awful German language, in A Tramp Abroad (1880), and his youthful experiences in Life on the Mississippi (1883). In his report on global travels, Following the Equator (1897), during which tour he was exposed directly to western colonial exploitation, he left off preaching and began to meddle.6 

 TOM, HUCK, AND JIM 

 Twain decided after his own dusty, dirty trip by donkey through Palestine that if Jesus were to come a second time, he would not return to Jerusalem. No sensible person who had visited the place once would want to return; thus he poked fun at the premillennialists of his day. While Twain did not return to the Holy Land, he did visit Bible texts for his novels. Although he often attacked the Bible as fiction, he did not hesitate to use it in his own fictional accounts about American faith and life. During these years, his skepticism was fed by agnostic iconoclast Robert Ingersoll, whom he knew and read with appreciation. 

 As early as 1871, Twain expressed his concern about America's great industrial barbecue. He even revised the first questions of the Westminster Shorter Catechism, which he was fed in Sunday school: Man's chief end is not to "glorify God," but to "get rich"-"dishonestly if we can; honestly if we must." Unfortunately, in this connection, the only thing most people remember about his first novel sermon, The Gilded Age (1873), which he coauthored with his neighbor, Charles Dudley Warner, is the title. With Warner, he took on get-rich speculators and politicians of the times, exposing the land wheeling and dealing, lobbying, logrolling, and lying of early Sunday school "robber barons" during the Ulysses S. Grant years. This sermon, warning of the downside of the "Gospel of Wealth," as Andrew Carnegie put it, sold well at first; but the very class with whom he attended church in Hartford felt somewhat betrayed. Twain referred to his congregation as the "Church of the Holy Speculators." So he turned for his sermonic material to the days of his youth in which he took delight, following that Hebrew preacher (Eccl 11:9).7 

 In The Adventures of Tom Sawyer (1876), Twain preaches not about "good boy-bad boy" types of nineteenth-century novels, but about a "young Adam," both bad and good. Tom faces adolescence in the Eden of St. Petersburg (that is, Hannibal), on the Mississippi, with its courthouse, public school, Sunday school, Presbyterian church, and cave. In the very beginning, orphan Tom, young Adam, narrowly escapes a switching from an indulgent Aunt Polly for stealing forbidden jam. To keep her ward out of jams, she tries to make him wash, wear clean clothes, and attend school, worship, and Sunday school. She punishes him by making him go to church Sunday evenings, should he backslide.8 His education is not reassuring. In order to win a Bible contest at Sunday school he does some slick trading for tickets that testify that he has memorized 2,000 Bible verses. He then misidentifies Jesus' first disciples as "David and Goliath," much to the dismay of his teachers and Judge Thacher, a Sunday school supporter. In church, he almost sleeps through a long sermon on predestination and "limitless fire and brimstone." The preacher narrows and narrows the elect to a number so small "as to hardly be worth the saving." Tom fidgets with a beetle he has smuggled into church to distract him from the warning. On "examination" day at public school, he does not do much better than at Sunday school. He cannot complete Patrick Henry's "Give me liberty or give me death" speech because of his stage fright. But he does pick up life experiences. As a prodigal, Tom is forever annoying Sid, his priggish, elder half brother. In an un-Presbyterian way, he avoids work, but as an entrepreneur, he makes a profit by enticing other kids to whitewash his fence for a fee. With other adolescents, he runs away, smokes, plays pirate, and dreams of finding treasure as did the California Gold Rushers. As a young Adam, he yearns for his "Adored Unknown" Eve, who turns out to be Becky Thacher, thus adding romance to this unromantic novel. Tom seems to have a religious awakening of a sort when he witnesses a murder by Injun Joe in the graveyard with Muff Potter's knife. Confessing that he did not have a clean Sunday school record, he promises God and himself to "waller in Sunday schools" if he escapes from this particular jam. 

 Tom's conscience matures in a town that cares for its children. Despite their mischief making, citizens mourn missing boys presumably drowned in the river. After the boys witness their own funeral from the church balcony, the town greets them joyfully as they walk down the aisle-alive. Tom is impressed. Sacrificially, Tom takes a switching for Becky who accidentally tears the teacher's anatomy book, exposing the teacher's own secret sins of the flesh. Tom comes forward to defend Muff Potter, who is tried wrongfully for the murder Injun Joe commits. The judge hails Tom as a "George Washington" for this truth telling. Tom is also hailed for protecting Becky when they are lost in the cave on the Sunday school picnic and escape from Injun Joe. After Tom and Huck actually find treasure and hit it rich, Tom persuades Huck to live with Widow Douglas and go "respectable," much to the delight of all. Tom did not appreciate that early "election" sermon he turned off in church, the one about the "millennium when the lion and the lamb should lie down together and a little child should lead them" (Isa 11:6). Through Tom, Twain invited adult readers to remember the days of their youth, as he satirized with tender loving care some of the conventional values of his hometown. It should be noted that Injun Joe dies in the cave, perhaps suggesting Twain's ambivalence about Native Americans in the 1870s and the frontier wars. 

 Twain began The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn (1884) before he finished Tom Sawyer. In 1883, he refreshed memories of his own adventures in Life on the Mississippi. While he set his sermon about Huck in the 1840s, he published it after the rise of the KKK (1866) and Jim Crow laws (1875). Moreover, he submitted his manuscript to his friend and fellow traveler, George Washington Cable, who attacked Louisiana's infamous convict-lease system in "The Freedman's Case in Equity" (1884) and The Silent South (1885), protesting the virtual reenslavement and injustices to African Americans. A fellow Presbyterian, Cable was run out of New Orleans and fled to New England. Using Huck's voice, Twain tipped his spiritual sword with humor, exposing legal injustices, conventions, and the hypocrisy of the South. He also mapped the growth of Huck's consciousness and conscience in relation to Jim, his raft companion and fellow adventurer. Twain warns that any reader trying to find a motive, moral, or plot in this sermon-like I am doing-may be prosecuted, banished, or even shot.9 

 The Missourian introduces us to his themes in the beginning of the sermon. Widow Douglas, who takes Huck in as a son, introduces him to the idea of providence, which involves a conscience of a sound heart and love of the other, while Miss Watson, the widow's spinster sister, underscores providence as a matter of society's laws and conventions, with the threat of fire and brimstone for disobedience. The widow, who cries over Huck at times, also introduces him to Moses. Huck takes little stock in Moses when he learns he is dead, without realizing that Moses is a liberator as well as lawgiver. Tom Sawyer, who is familiar with the adventures of Don Quixote, is up to old tricks, pretending to be a highwayman and holding people for ransom, including Miss Watson's slave, Jim. Huck refuses to play Tom's game at Jim's expense. Jim runs away because he thinks Miss Watson intends to "sell him down the river." Huck, seized and isolated by Pap Finn, "white trash," drunkard, drifter, and racist, runs away. The fugitives meet, discover a raft, and begin their own Pilgrim's Progress, a book in which Huck has read "considerable." They float down the mighty "Miss," presumably to freedom in Ohio. Huck identifies himself with Jim from the beginning. He exclaims about their pursuers: "Jim, they are after us!" 

 Missing the turn up the Ohio River at Cairo, Huck and Jim float deeper into dangerous waters. At one point they come across the wreck of a boat, the Walter Scott, a reminder that Twain held the Scottish novelist responsible for the unrealistic attitudes of Southerners. On shore leave, from time to time, with the Dauphin and the Duke-flimflam artists who join them on the raft-they are exposed to the family, religious, cultural, and civic conflicts-and the gullibility-of Southern life. Huck, for example, meets the Grangerfords and Shepherdsons, biblical Abels and Cains involved in a violent feud, the ancient origin of which no one can remember. These families, one of which subscribes to the Presbyterian Observer, carry their shotguns to Sunday worship and begin the defense of family honor immediately thereafter. Huck recalls the sermon on "faith and good works and free grace and preforeordestination," altogether one of his roughest Sundays of sermonizing. The Dauphin poses once as a pirate at a Pokesville revival, converts, and promises to return to the South Seas to convert the pirates there. He returns to the raft with a pile of cash bragging that pirates always beat heathens to work a camp meeting. The Dauphin, accompanied by the Duke, passes himself off as a preacher and as a long-absent relative of a grieving family. The two fleece the family of its inheritance. Huck, following the Widow Douglas's conscience of the heart, steals the funds back from the imposters and saves the family from the deception. Hard up for funds, the Dauphin and the Duke sell Jim into slavery before a mob uncovers their own flapdoodle and tars and feathers them. Huck observes the cruelty of human beings to one another, even though the rascals may have deserved it. Moreover, Huck reports the cowardly behavior of a lynch mob in another adventure, easily cowed by threats to their own safety. 

 Back on the raft, Huck's conscience matures through his relationship with Jim. Like the biblical inhabitants of Eden, he and Jim do not "go much on clothes." Huck is grateful to Jim for telling him about the latter's love of wife and children, something Huck never heard from his own dysfunctional father. Jim is grateful to Huck for being the only white man who ever kept his promise to him. When Huck plays a trick on Jim, Jim calls Huck "trash." Huck humbles himself and asks Jim's forgiveness, something Huck never thought he would do. Huck's action helps Jim reaffirm himself as a human being. Huck also saves Jim from gullible slavers by reassuring them that no free black would float South of Cairo as he and Jim were doing. When Huck wrestles with his Miss Watson-self and Widow Douglas-self and considers sending Jim back up the river into slavery, his good heart "slaps" him in the face. Although realizing he is breaking the law, he throws his lot with Jim. "All right," he declares, "I'll go to hell": not an easy thing for a hell-believing Presbyterian to conclude. 

 Huck ends up providentially with Tom Sawyer's Uncle Silas Phelps and Aunt Sally in Arkansas. By now, Jim is a possession of this family and imprisoned on its farm. A farmer preacher, Silas studies Acts 17 before going to feed Jim. He seems oblivious to the fact that Paul and his biblical namesake suffered prison and that Paul shortly afterward preached on the Areopagus that God had made of "one blood" all nations of the earth. Pious Aunt Sally seems to count as nothing the death of a slave in a riverboat accident. Now Tom Sawyer shows up, and devises an elaborate escape for Jim, one as long as any of Scott's novels and one which Cervantes might have caricatured. Having promised himself that he would try to rescue Jim if he were ever again enslaved, Huck reluctantly plays along, following his heart. He is startled that Tom, with his Sunday school conscience, would ever "steal a nigger" out of slavery. 

 During the escape, Tom is accidentally shot by the posse, and Jim is nearly lynched as he waits with Tom until a doctor arrives on the scene. Huck recognizes, at this point, that Jim is real "white inside," given what he had endured as a slave. To add insult to injury, Tom finally announces that Jim had been freed two months before by Miss Watson in her will. Miss Watson died with a good conscience after all. Jim has actually been free during all his adventures with Huck on the mighty "Miss." 

 Mark Twain did not solve all of America's problems after Reconstruction. In fact, while free, Jim seems to get lost. He does reappear in Tom Sawyer Abroad (1894) as a Presbyterian, like Moses, by religion. Huck, who uses whiteness to measure Jim's humanity, the only measure he knows, is not comfortable with reentering white Southern society. He takes off for the "Territory" to avoid being further "sivilized." 

 What Cable attacked directly, Twain attacked indirectly. Although he could not stand Cable's Calvinism and Sabbatarianism, Twain appreciated Cable's tribute to his Huck sermon. He combined, Cable commented, "wisdom and truth and art" with the "cunning ostentation of awkwardness." Twain's sermon caused controversy immediately. Even in the North, it was put down as "trash," not suitable for children. The novelist agreed. He confessed that he resented adults who made him read, as a child, about the wickedness of David and Solomon in the Bible. He maintained his book was not intended for children. It was banned in some places. Censors in Concord, MA did not like the intimacy between Huck and Jim. Twain delighted in the controversy; it increased sales. Unfortunately, censors missed the point. Presbyterians in the South, with which denomination Twain and Cable had associated, wrestled with the issue of white-black relations, and tried unsuccessfully to resolve it by organizing a separate African American denomination for a time.10 

 Twain next focused on A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court (1889). In this sermon, he attacked the high cost of industrialization and urbanization. He also poked fun at Matthew Arnold's condescending attack on the United States in Civilization in America (1888). In his earlier The Prince and the Pauper: A Tale for Young People of All Ages (1881), a prince changes places with a pauper and experiences injustices of both English and American society. Twain may have borrowed his text for this sermon from the biblical preacher of Ecclesiastes (Eccl 4:13). In Connecticut Yankee, Twain has some fun at English expense. He also exposes his cynical view about what was happening in his own country. II 

 Yankee Hank Morgan, another alter ego, wakes up in Arthur's Court in sixth-century England. He begins to expose the shabbiness of the Arthurian legend with its Round Table, the divine right of kings and bishops, and an entrenched nobility and hierarchy manipulated by a medieval magician, Merlin. He also exposes England's poverty-so much for British mythology and "civil and ecclesiastical pets of privilege." Arthur makes Hank "Boss" when Hank outsmarts Merlin by predicting an eclipse, outdoing Merlin's tricks. Like a Joseph in Egypt, or an "autocrat" at Arthur's Round Table, he proceeds to industrialize Britain into a "Republic on the American Plan." Hank uses his power to end slavery and repression and to introduce suffrage and universal education, along with religious liberty. While he has the authority and power to establish his own "Presbyterian sect," he opts for safety in numbers and even allows "Free Baptists" to preach. He organizes numerous Sunday schools. Christians, he notes, on a pilgrimage to the "Valley of Holiness" are as shameless as those with whom Twain visited the Holy Land in the 1860s. Hank also introduces modern bicycles, telephones, the typesetting machine-which Twain had difficulty introducing to America-and gunpowder, all giving people a taste of social progress. Later, he persuades the king to disguise himself as a peasant, to experience not how the "other half," but how the vast majority of his people live in utter poverty because of economic disparities. Arthur falls into the hands of Merlin, who does not recognize him and who threatens the king himself with torture and execution. Riding bicycles, Hank's agents rescue Arthur and Hank in the nick of time. 

 Twain ends this sermon about England's Golden Age in a conflict of death and destruction in which Hank employs modern weapons such as machine guns and explosives. There are 30,000 knights slaughtered! Hank still loses and nothing changes, despite his efforts. While this sermon turns into farce, Twain exposes his fierce anger against the inhumanity among people in the "Gilded Age" in a manner not found in his first novels. He also shows he is running out of laughs. Hank complains after hearing the humor of Camelot that there are no new jokes. Twain's focus on the destructiveness of modern technology at the conclusion of Connecticut Yankee suggests that he was still wrestling with his lifelong quarrel with God and his Calvinism over predestination. Pastor Twichell had given Twain a copy of Jonathan Edwards's Freedom of the Will (1754) to read. Twain considered it a matter of Edwards's giant intellect gone mad. But in 1906, Twain finally published anonymously What Is Man ? In his dialogical sermon he tries to resolve his problem about human freedom and necessity with, ironically, a form of mechanistic determinism. He did not acknowledge his authorship of this book during his lifetime.12 

 Twain sometimes thought of himself as a modern Noah warning of a doomsday to come. He complained, it should be noted, that neither God nor Noah took into consideration the terrible cost of that early flood to men, women, and children who were excluded from the ark. He was also angry with Noah for keeping dinosaurs off, while allowing on the ark disease-- carrying microbes, mosquitoes, and flies.13 Humankind was still suffering from these lapses in judgment, but Twain had not lost his conscience or hope. Connecticut Yankee appeared during a period of reform by President Grover Cleveland, a Presbyterian preacher's kid whom Twain liked and supported as a Mugwump. Twain dismissed the charge that Cleveland had fathered an illegitimate child as irrelevant. By voting for Cleveland, Twain and Twichell annoyed their Hartford Republican congregation. Twichell did keep his pulpit. Nevertheless, Twain remarked that of the "eighty thousand" preachers in America only "twenty" were "politically independent." The rest had to vote the "ticket of their congregations." Americans did not have such independence, he added, because preachers did not preach it. Stirred in part by the traumatic labor strikes of these years, some of Twain's coreligionists in the Presbyterian and Congregational churches supported Baptist Walter Rauschenbusch's social gospel to deal with the injustices of the new order of the "Gilded Age." 

 QUARRELS WITH GOD AND SOCIAL CLASS 

 Twain never lost his funny bone, but the humor which invited itself into his sermons was darker in color. In 1891, he took his family to Europe, partially because of financial difficulties. He never returned to Nook Farm. In the first decade of the twentieth century, he lived occasionally in New York, where he attended the Brick Presbyterian Church. A friend and fellow novelist, Henry Van Dyke, served as pastor. Van Dyke was liberal and a member of a commission which successfully rounded off some of the sharp edges of the predestinarianism in amendments to the Westminster Confession, adopted by Presbyterians in 1903. Perhaps Tom Sawyer and Huck Finn made a contribution to doctrinal change after all. In 1896, Twain took a lecture tour around the world and improved his fiscal situation with Following the Equator (1898). It was a Twainian success. During these years, two daughters died. In 1904, Olivia, whose health had never been robust, also passed away. Twain regretted that he had caused her to lose her orthodoxy. Her death deepened his darkness, his concerns for the "damned human race," and his quarrel with God. As Ecclesiastes puts it: "For in much wisdom is much vexation, and those who increase knowledge increase sorrow" (Eccl 1:18). 114 

 Twain often turned his humorous sermons on himself at the same time he dispensed judgment on contemporaries. He admitted he had committed "several millions of sins." He had repented of many of them and partly repented of others. He had forgotten just a "few." He also claimed to have done eleven good deeds, four of which he remembered with crystal clearness. He admitted, however, of repenting of these good deeds whenever he thought of them. He summoned his camp followers to do likewise. America's richest man, Andrew Carnegie, who attended Brick Church with his wife and enjoyed hearing the Gospel according to Mark, never had any other theme but himself. The industrialist, Twain wrote, spoke of the many attentions paid him without realizing that they were mainly tributes to his wealth. He bought fame and paid cash for it! John Wanamaker, Philadelphia retailer and Postmaster General for Presbyterian Benjamin Harrison, prayed unceasingly. Twain wrote that God's Recording Angel immediately dismissed all "Professional Prayers" arising from Wanamaker's Bethany Presbyterian Church Sunday school, one of the largest in America. Words, words, words, signifying nothing. As Baptist Sunday school teachers, the Rockefellers, John I and John II, spent their time telling students how they made money, according to Twain. Sunday schoolers divided their worship between the Rockefellers and God, "unequally." Although Twain's daughter gained some help from Christian Science, Twain did not like Mary Baker Glover Patterson Eddy. Eddy suffered from an "Eddy-puss" complex and presided over a "grabby" religious empire with absolute control for her own "self-edification." Twain was especially hard on Brooklyn Presbyterian preacher T. DeWitt Talmage, who announced that dirty, smelly, working people were not welcome at his church. Twain erupted. Jesus smelled like a carpenter and called fishy-smelling disciples. It astounded Twain that Christians who once faced the cross, the stake, and the ax should wither and wilt under some unsavory human smells. Humbug! Reflecting on the human condition, Twain maintained that God had invented humankind because God was disappointed with the monkey. Now God worried that man was "no considerable improvement." Twain called his contemporaries to repent. 15 

 Twain continued to show his concern for African Americans and the impact of American culture upon them in The Tragedy of Pudd'nhead Wilson (1894) and "The United States of Lyncherdom," published over his name after his death in Europe and Elsewhere (1923). In Following the Equator and in other places, he attacked the exploitation of "lesser breeds," as his friend Rudyard Kipling called them, by European nations and the United States. He was especially angry after the Spanish-American War with Methodist William McKinley, who took the Philippines in a brutal put-down of indigenous forces fighting for independence. McKinley, successor of George Washington and Abe Lincoln, promised hypocritically to Christianize and civilize Filipinos. Some president! Twain went after the respected Congregationalist minister, Reverend William Scott Ament, director of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions. Ament joined other powers in seeking indemnities from the Chinese after the Boxer Rebellion against western exploitation in 1900. Twain, perhaps unfairly, was shocked that Ament would use such blood money for the "propagation of the Gospel" and to promote the "blessings of civilization" to brothers and sisters who "sit in darkness." He summoned to missionaries: Come home and Christianize Christians in the states! He also wrote a bitter satire, King Leopold's Soliloquy: A Defense of His Congo Rule (1905), condemning Belgium's Christian monarch for rubber profiteering at African expense. He praised Presbyterian missionaries William Shepperd, an African American, and William Morrison, both from Virginia, for exposing Leopold's agents. Agents cut off hands of Africans who did not make their rubber quotas. On New Year's Eve, 1900, Twain prepared a "Greeting from the Nineteenth to the Twentieth Century" for a meeting of the American Red Cross: "I bring you the stately nation named Christendom," returning from imperial pirate raids around the world, "bedraggled, besmirched, and dishonored" with "her soul full of meanness, her pocket full of boodle, and her mouth full of pious hypocrisies. Give her soap and towel, but hide the looking-glass." In Europe and Elsewhere, Twain's executors printed his "War Prayer," dictated in 1904-1905, in which he reminded all those who prayed for young patriots in battle what victory meant to the lives, lands, and homes of an enemy, or victims of imperialism. Violence, according to Twain, made no sense at all. 16 

 Twain continued his quarrel with God, echoing the preacher in Ecclesiastes, for example, in Letters from the Earth, finally published in 1939. "Vanity of vanities! All is vanity!" (Eccl 1:2). During his later years, Twain became acquainted with William James and the noted philosopher's analysis of the divided self, the healthy-minded and sick-soul religious experiences in which mirror Twain may have seen himself. Twain also spent some of his time comparing other religions favorably with his own and rewriting the Bible, a book of a "thousand lies." He blamed God for not explaining clearly to Adam and Eve the meaning of moral choice and especially the significance of death before Satan was allowed to tempt them. He also concluded God and Jesus did not deserve all the compliments paid them. Imagine calling God the "All-Just, the All-Righteous, the All-Good, the All-Merciful, the All-Forgiving, the All-Truthful, the AllLoving, the Source of all Morality!" Twain considered these "sarcasms," uttered every day by pious Christians without a smile. He blamed Jesus for giving us "hell." He considered the Beatitudes about the blessedness of the poor, the poor in spirit, the mourners, the meek, the merciful, the pure in heart, the persecuted, and those who hunger and thirst after righteousness also "immense sarcasms, giant hypocrisies." God and Jesus did not obey their own laws! Jesus' six hours on the cross were not sufficient divine atonement for all that human beings had suffered through the centuries since Noah. On the other hand, Twain often thought kindly of Jesus, his life, his teachings, and his death. Jesus, he once remarked, may have been the only Christian. And they caught and crucified him early, Twain mused, perhaps remembering his solemn visit to the Church of the Holy Sepulcher in Jerusalem. Then again, Jesus may not have been Christian at all, given the way his claimants behaved.17 

 Toward the end of his life, he ran across a saying of Darwin's father: "Unitarianism is a feather to catch falling Christians." Still living on the edge, Twain liked that comment. No wonder he thought of himself at times as the Prodigal Son. Twain, the preacher, was not a trained biblical scholar, theologian, or expert about other religions, all of which disciplines were in flux in his day. But he read widely. He had a keen sense of the difficulties in resolving conflicts about God and the human condition. Knowing something of his parishioners' complaints, Twichell wrote Twain when Olivia died. Those thoughts you have about life's darkness, Twichell confessed, "visit me too. I, indeed, believe, that behind the riddle there is a Hidden and Awful Wisdom; that for one tempest-tossed in these wide weltering seas there is an Anchorage, that for the mortal spirit there is a practical victory over the world and all its baffling mysteries." Toward the end of his life, Twain began to wear white suits, as did the biblical preacher (Eccl 9:8), professing his innocence.18 

 Samuel Langhorne Clemens, alias Mark Twain, died at his new home, Stormfield, in Redding, CT, in 1910. The world had honored its Prodigal Son while he was alive by doctoring him at Yale (1901), the University of Missouri (1902), and Oxford (1907)-three honors among others bestowed upon him. While Twain could not attend his own funeral, as did Tom Sawyer, he did explore beyond the pearly gates in Captain Stormfield's Visit to Heaven (1908). Captain Stormfield, a universalist, served as another alter ego. Twain began this sermon after reading Congregationalist Elizabeth Stuart Phelps's The Gates Ajar (1869), an enormously popular description of a Victorian heaven with Victorian parlors and grand pianos. Livy would not let him publish these thoughts about the afterlife during her lifetime. Twain, perhaps not doing complete justice to Phelps, thought her heaven much too small. Stormfield finds an entirely different place, enormous in expanse, populated by innumerable angels, the vast majority of them copper colored. He finds angels from all races-a few Caucasoid, to be sure, but vast numbers of Mongoloid and Negroid, including Injun Joe and Jim-from all religions-Jews, Muslims, as well as Christians-- and from all nationalities. He finds it difficult to locate Americans and white angels. He is pleased in a heaven so large he need not associate with T. DeWitt Talmage from Brooklyn. As he wanders around, he gradually drops his halo, harp, and wings as useless and finds his friend Adam, a great crowd pleaser. Thus, in his last years, Twain preached one of his finest sermons, letting in the humor. When asked once about heaven, he admitted that there was no empirical evidence that there could be an afterlife. After a pause, he confessed, "And yet-I am strongly inclined to expect one." 19 

 At death, Twain was a greater celebrity than was Jim Smiley's celebrated frog. He set sail to heaven from the Brick Presbyterian Church, Joseph Twichell and Henry Van Dyke presiding. These men knew the contribution Twain made as preacher to a sharper understanding about problems of race, economics, and global expansion and about the theological debates of the day because of his funny bone. Twain, Van Dyke recalled, gave us insights into elements of the "unreal, absurd, ridiculous in this strange incongruous world," humorous not only to Twain, but to God. Twain's humor, Van Dyke concluded, was of the highest sort. He laughed at the false, pretentious, hypocritical, the vain. He did not poke fun at the helpless. He had a reverence for the frankness, joyfulness, and genuineness of little children of whom Jesus said, "Of such is the kingdom of Heaven" (Matt 19:14). So the crowd honored America's preeminent preacher and humorist whose sermons still echo in our ears and inform our hearts and minds.20 

 Mark Twain often commented on the work of undertakers. In Life on the Mississippi, a mortician thanked God for the "art of inhumation," the "dead surest business in Christendom." Twain advised his contemporaries: "Let us endeavor so to live that when we come to die even the undertaker will be sorry." When I visit heaven, I expect to find Samuel Langhorne Clemens, talk about providences, and thank him for letting Christians have it with his funny bone.21 

 JAMES H. SMYLIE 

 James H. Smylie is Ernest T. Thompson Professor of Church History, Emeritus, at Union Theological Seminary and Presbyterian School of Christian Education in Richmond, VA. He presented a longer version of this article as the William and Miriam Blake Lecture on American Religious History at Virginia Commonwealth University on February 29, 2000. He is the author of A Brief History of the Presbyterians (1996). 

 Footnotes: 

 1The Autobiography of Mark Twain, ed. Charles Neider (New York: Harper Perennial, 1990), 273. Twain claimed that it is the "will of God that we must have critics and missionaries and congressmen and humorists, and we must bear the burden." See also Albert Bigelow Paine, Mark Twain: A Biography: The Personal and Literan, Life of Samuel Langhorne Clemens, 3 vols. (New York: Harper & Bros., 1912), 1556. 

 2The bibliography of and on Mark Twain is immense. Here are references to convenient editions of his major works and samples of sources: The Favorite Works of Mark Twain (New York: Garden City Publishing, 1939); Justin Kaplan, ed., Great Short Works of Mark Twain (New York: Harper & Row, 1967); Howard G. Baetzhold and Joseph B. McCullough, eds., The Bible according to Mark Twain: Writings on Heaven, Eden, and the Flood, (Athens: University of Georgia Press, 1995); R. Kent Rasmussen, Mark Twain A to Z: The Essential Reference to His Life and Writings (New York: Facts on File, 1995); Louis J. Budd, Mark Twain: Social Philosopher (Port Washington, NY: Kennikat Press, 1962); Allison Ensor, Mark Twain & the Bible (Lexington: University of Kentucky Press, 1969); Everett Emerson, The Authentic Mark Twain: A Literary Biography of Samuel L. Clemens (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1984); Joe B. Fulton, Mark Twain's Ethical Realism: The Aesthetics of Race, Class, and Gender (Columbia: University of Missouri Press, 1997); Maxwell Geismar, Mark Twain: An American Prophet (Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1970); John Q. Hays, Mark Twain and Religion: A Mirror of American Eclecticism (New York: Peter Lang, 1989); Hamlin Hill, Mark Twain: God's Fool (New York: Harper & Row, 1973); Arthur G. Pettit, Mark Twain & the South (Lexington: University Press of Kentucky, 1974); Forrest G. Robinson, In Bad Faith: The Dynamics of Deception in Mark Twain's America (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1986). 

 3See, for example, Nathan 0. Hatch, The Democratization of American Christianity (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1989); Paul A. Carter, The Spiritual Crisis of the Gilded Age (DeKalb: Northern Illinois University Press, 1971); Charles Howard Hopkins, The Rise of the Social Gospel in American Protestantism, 1865-1915 (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1940). 

 4See Paine, Mark Twain, Chapters 7-9; Clemens, Autobiography, Chapters 5-10, passim; Curtis Dahl, "Mark Twain and Ben Ely: Two Missouri Boyhoods," Missouri Historical Review (July, 1972), 549-50; Charles Jeffrey Garrison, "Notes and Documents of Humor, Death, and Minister: The Comstock of Mark Twain," Nevada Historical Quarterly 38/3 (Fall, 1995), 189-202. 

 5See The Innocents Abroad, or, The New Pilgrim's Progress (New York: Harper, 1911); Robert T. Handy, "Sources for Understanding American Christian Attitudes toward the Holy Land, 1800-1950," in Scholars Colloquium on America-Holy Land Studies, ed. Moshe Davis (New York: Arno Press, 1977), 34-62; Ensor, Mark Twain & the Bible, passim for various biblical references. 

 6See Paine, Mark Twain; Geismar, Mark Twain; Leah A. Strong, Joseph Hopkins Twichell, Mark Twain's Friend and Pastor (Athens: University of Georgia Press, 1966); Kenneth R. Andrews, Nook Farm.. Mark Twain's Hartford Circle (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1950); Budd, Mark Twain, 100-1, 116, 129. 

 7Hays, Mark Twain and Religion, 66-7; Mark Twain and Charles Dudley Warner, The Gilded Age: A Tale of Today (New York: New America Library, 1969). 

 8"The Adventures of Tom Sawyer," Favorite Works; see also Emerson, Authentic Mark Twain, 78-84; Geismar, Mark Twain, 43-50. 

 9See Louis D. Rubin Jr., George W Cable: The Life and Times of a Southern Heretic (New York, Pegasus, 1969), 148-55; George M. Fredrickson, The Black Image in the White Mind: The Debate on Afro-American Character and Destiny; 1817-1914 (New York: Harper & Row, 1971). 

 10For contemporary controversies, see James S. Leonard, Thomas A. Tenney, and Thadious M. David, eds., Satire or Evasion? Black Perspectives on Huckleberry Finn (Durham: Duke University Press, 1975); Andrew E. Murray, Presbyterians and the Negro-A History (Philadelphia: Presbyterian Historical Society, 1966). 

 11"A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court," Favorite Works, passim. See also Geismar, Mark Twain, 111-25, 154-68; Fulton, Mark Twain's Ethical Realism, 88-117. 

 12See Mark Twain, What is Man? and Other Philosophical Writings, ed. Paul Baender (Berkeley: University of California Press, 1973); Paine, Mark Twain, 887-92, 115(r7; Strong, Joseph Hopkins Twichell, 99-100. 

 13For comments on microbes, see Paine, Mark Twain, 1663-70; Ensor, Mark Twain & the Bible, 61, 71, 115; Geismar, Mark Twain, 131, 320. 

 14For references to Van Dyke, see Geismar, Mark Twain, passim and Lefferts A. Loetscher, The Broadening Church: A Study of Theological Issues in the Presbyterian Church since 1869 (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1954). On Livy's loss of faith, see Paine, Mark Twain, 651 and Janet Smith, ed., Mark Twain on the Damned Human Race (New York: Hill & Wang, 1962). 

 15For fugitive pieces, see Mark Twain, Plymouth Rock and the Pilgrims and Other Salutary Platform Opinions, ed. Charles Neider (New York: Harper & Row, 1984). For remarks on these and other characters, see Mark Twain, Mark Twain and the Three R's: Race, Religion, Revolution-and Related Matters, ed. Maxwell Geismar (Indianapolis: BobbsMerrill, 1973). For comments on Eddy, see Paine, Mark Twain, 118(r7. Twain may have been unfair to Talmage, who just may have been trying some satire of his own on his congregation. 

 16Twain, The Three R's, passim; Paine, Mark Twain, 1125-34. The American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions questioned Twain's interpretation of events, drawing forth more Twainian satire (Geismar, Mark Twain, 207-9, 373-4). 

 17On Twain's reflections on the Bible and Christianity, see Baetzhold and McCullough, The Bible according to Mark Twain, passim; Mark Twain, Letters from the Earth, ed. Bernard DeVoto (New York: Harper & Row, 1962), 20, 54; Paine, Mark Twain, 411-2, 631; Ensor, Mark Twain & the Bible, 76-7. 

 18Paine, Mark Twain, 630, 1535, 1581-5; Ensor, Mark Twain & the Bible, 36; Strong, Joseph Hopkins Twichell, 106-7; Jason Gary Horn, Mark Twain and Williams James: Crafting a Free Self (Columbia: University of Missouri Press, 1996). 

 19See "Captain Stormfield's Visit to Heaven," in Baetzhold and McCullough, The Bible according to Mark Twain, 138-88; Paine, Mark Twain, 1430-1. For an imaginative conversation between God, Twain, and other noted doubters, see Charles Erskine Scott Wood, Heavenly Discourse (New York: Vanguard, 1928). 

 20See Paine, Mark Twain, 1579-80; Archibald Henderson, Mark Twain (New York: Stokes, 1912), 9-10; "Pudd'nhead Wilson," Favorite Works, 912. 

 21The author is grateful to William E. Phipps, retired professor at Davis & Elkins College, Elkins, WV, for conversations and resources about our mutual friend, Mark Twain. 

Document gthe000020010711dx1100004
 

 

 Economics 
 Slower US growth dragging down local companies 

 GREGG SHAI GARDNER 
453 words
1 January 2001
The Jerusalem Post
JPST
Daily
17
English
 (Copyright 2001) 

 The slower rate of US growth will likely continue to pull down the performance of Israeli companies, an analyst said against the background of a wave of fourth quarter profit warnings issued over the last week. 

 "Israel is highly dependent on the American economy for its capital markets as well as its consumer market," Ira Slomowitz of IBI Investment House told The Jerusalem Post, "and local companies are going to be affected by slower growth in the US. I don't think that there's any reason for people to start panicking, but stocks certainly will be affected." 

 Last Friday, Optibase Ltd., a Herzliya-based digital streaming solutions provider, lowered its fourth quarter revenues expectations to $6.8m.-$7.3m., down from the $8.3m. recorded in the third quarter. Concurrently, the company's board of directors authorized the buy- back of up to one million shares of Optibase's common stock. 

 RadCom Ltd., a Tel Aviv-based network test and quality management solutions provider, also issued a profit warning and now expects to incur a net loss of between $0.16 and $0.20 per share for the fourth quarter. Yesterday the company's board of directors authorized up to $4m. for the repurchase of up to one million of its shares. 

 "We're seeing an economic slowdown in the US," Slomowitz said, "where growth had been five to six percent per year and is now only two-and-a-half to three percent. Although its not necessarily a recession, there has certainly been a slowdown. What analysts and company executives had predicted for the quarter were originally based on higher growth rates than the ones we've seen." 

 According to Slomowitz, the performance of Israeli companies is closely related to the behavior of larger US concerns, such as Lucent, Microsoft and Intel, that have also issued profit warnings over the last two months. 

 "Israeli companies often sell add-ons to other products, where many have contracts with IBM or Microsoft. When these larger companies' sales are affected, sales of Israeli companies will be affected at least as much, if not more, as they may remove some of these add-ons in order to cut prices," he said. 

 Another casualty of the recent trend is Ra'anana-based Nice Systems Ltd., which saw its shares plummet after issuing a profitwarning last Thursday - closing at NIS 79.50 in Tel Aviv yesterday, down 129 percent from its Wednesday closing price of NIS 182. 

 "If you look at stock prices from February-March and compare them to now, it's hard to believe that they're actually the same stocks," added Slomowitz. 

Document jpst000020010711dx11000cb

Search Summary

 Text	((“profit*” same “warning*”) or ("disappoint*" same "result*") or ("decreas*" same "profit*") or ("compan*" same "downturn*") or ("unexpect*" same "loss*"))
 Date	01/01/2001 to 01/31/2001
 Source	All Sources
 Author	All Authors
 Company	All Companies
 Subject	 Not Corporate/Industrial News
 Industry	All Industries
 Region	United States
 Language	English
 Results Found	151
 Timestamp	29 March 2018 13:28

 Page 2 of 2     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

