 
•	  Italy's Consob chief says bourses overvalued. 
•	  Stocks in Broad Slide; Dow Off 124 
•	  Dow Snaps Two-Day Winning Streak 
•	  Coca-Cola 4Q Matches Preannounced Forecast; Stock Down 3.4% 
•	 WRAP: Philips Issues 2nd  Profit - Warning  In Four Months
•	  FFBN Drug Wrap:Lg Pharm 1.2% Gain Led Sector Rally (CONT) 
•	  Chairman Says Alcatel In Talks To Acquire Small, Midsize U.S. Firms 
•	  Fed Chief Sends Word of Caution To Wall Street 
•	  Fed Chief Sends Word of Caution 
•	  New report on pharmaceutical industry projects profound, long-term, systemic change and short-term earnings gap 
•	  CURRENCY SAMBA STIRS THE BLOOD. 
•	  COVER STORY / Great Expectations 
•	  COVER STORY / Great Expectations 
•	  Brazil's Main Index Plunges Still Lower, Casting General Pall Over Latin American Issues 
•	 NATION / WORLD: CONSUMER PRODUCTS Campbell Soup Issues  Profit Warning
•	  Lower-Priced Personal Computers Drove Strong Sales For Holiday Month 
•	  Barnes & Noble Says 4th-Quarter, Fiscal 1999 Results Will Meet Call 
•	  Small Stocks: Small Caps Widen Losses As Nasdaq Veers Lower 
•	  Small Caps Charge Higher As Nasdaq Extends Streak 
•	  Dollar Tree Stk Active Aftermkt As Co. Posts 4Q Sales Data 
•	  The Gazette, Colorado Springs, Colo., Business Briefs Column 
•	  Storage Technology shares fall on earnings prewarning 
•	  UK'S FTSE 100 turns mixed, Dow seen opening flat. 
•	 Illinois stocks rise little in 1998. 
•	  Wall Street's Banks Kept To Hierarchy During 1998 



 Italy's Consob chief says bourses overvalued. 

135 words
28 January 1999
07:15
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 ROME, Jan 28 (Reuters) - World bourses are overvalued in terms of fundamentals, although stock markets are often not in step with economic indicators, the chairman of Italy's CONSOB bourse watchdog, Luigi Spaventa, said on Thursday. Asked in an interview with Reuters Television Italia whether he thought bourses were overvalued, Spaventa said: "In terms of fundamentals, maybe yes, but we well know that stocks often follow another logic." 

 "I think one could agree with the observations of (U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan) Greenspan," he added. 

 Greenspan warned last week that stock prices on Wall Street would be difficult to sustain, warning about over-optimistic corporate profit projections. ((Rome newsroom +3906 854 0049. fax. +3906 854 0568 rome.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv1s05rl3




 Business; Financial Desk 
 Stocks in Broad Slide; Dow Off 124 

From Times Staff and Wire Reports
771 words
28 January 1999
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-4
English
 Copyright 1999 / The Times Mirror Company 

 Stocks ended sharply lower Wednesday as investors cashed in some recent profits, and as Brazil's currency hit a new low. 

 But many Internet-related stocks zoomed again. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average broke a two-day winning streak, dropping 124.35 points, or 1.3%, to close at 9,200.23. 

 The Nasdaq composite, which hit a record high on Tuesday, lost 1.1% as some big-name tech shares fell. 

 Losers topped winners by nearly 2 to 1 on the New York Stock Exchange and by 24 to 16 on Nasdaq in active trading. 

 Concerns that recession will spread throughout Latin America weighed heavily on the stocks of U.S. banks. The stocks also were hurt by news from First Union, one of the nation's largest banks, that earnings growth this year will be weaker than expected, in part because of higher expenses. 

 The news from Brazil continued to be grim. The country's currency, the real, lost another 3.7% to close at a record low of 1.91 to the dollar on Wednesday, despite a hike in interest rates that was designed to bolster confidence and slow investor flight. 

 Brazil abandoned its defense of the currency Jan. 13, and the real has since lost more than 50% of its value. 

 Brazil's central bank raised its overnight bank lending rate to 35.5%, from 32.5%, a hike that will be passed along to consumer and business borrowers. Yet Brazil's largest stock market shrugged off the increase, with the Bovespa index adding 0.6% to 7,647. 

 Higher interest rates are supposed to curb inflation and make Brazil more attractive to investors. But they will also increase its horrific fiscal deficit by raising the cost of borrowing. Latin America economist Arturo Porzecanski of ING Barings in New York said rates of 40% might be necessary to stop capital outflows that have totaled $8 billion this month. 

 Expectations rose that Brazil would announce a new fiscal initiative to cut its budget even further, possibly with massive layoffs of government employees. In Munich, World Bank President James Wolfensohn predicted that Brazil will soon unveil such a package and that it will help stabilize the currency and restore confidence. 

 The dollar, perhaps helped by a "flight to quality," rose to a four-week high against the Japanese yen, ending at 115.82 yen versus 113.82 on Tuesday. 

 The U.S. bond market showed little reaction to events. An auction of two-year Treasury notes produced an average yield of 4.575%, as expected. 

 In commodity markets, a key index of commodity prices slipped to a fresh 21-year low, led down by platinum, hogs and sugar. 

 Among Wednesday's highlights: 

 * IBM led major tech shares lower, falling $7.31 to $178.31. Also, Microsoft eased $2.94 to $168.63 and Intel lost $4.19 to $132.75. 

 * Among Internet stocks, online auctioneer EBay rocketed $82.63 to $303.50 after a strong earnings report Tuesday. 

 Other winners included Amazon.com, up $10.56 to $125.63; Broadcom, up $15.50 to $145; Ubid, up $17.50 to $89.94; and America Online, up $10.50 to $165.50. 

 * In the bank sector, First Union tumbled $4.88 to $52.19, J.P. Morgan fell $4.19 to $100.06, BankAmerica lost $2.81 to $62.13 and Citigroup was off $1.50 to $54. 

 * Borders Group fell $3.13 to $17.13 after the book retailer issued its second profit warning this month, saying storms are hurting January sales. 

 * Airline stocks declined after American Airlines' chief executive said industry capacity is likely to exceed demand for air travel in 1999. American parent AMR slid $2.69 to $53.19, US Airways lost $2.94 to $46.06 and Delta dropped $2.19 to $49.31. 

 * Drug and biotech stocks were among the day's big winners, with Pfizer up $1.81 to $121.94, Bristol Myers up $4.75 to $127.38, Amgen up $3.13 to a record $115.88 and Immunex up $4.94 to $147.94. 

 * Oil stocks suffered another sell-off even as some companies have reported better-than-expected earnings in recent days. Exxon lost $1.25 to $71 and Atlantic Richfield dropped $1.56 to $57.19. 

 * Gold stocks fell as the metal hit a five-month low. Barrick slid 44 cents to $18.31; Battle Mountain lost 13 cents to $3.88. 

 Market Roundup, C8 

 GRAPHIC-CHART: Daily Diary, Wednesday, Jan. 27, 1999 

Document latm000020010828dv1s006mw




 Business; Financial Desk 
 Dow Snaps Two-Day Winning Streak 

From Times Wire Services
737 words
28 January 1999
Los Angeles Times
LATM
National Edition
NC-4
English
 Copyright 1999 / The Times Mirror Company 

 Stock prices ended sharply lower Wednesday, as investors cashed in some recent profits in IBM and worried about the quality of corporate earnings and Brazil's fragile economy. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average broke a two-day winning streak, dropping 124.35 points to close at 9,200.23. The blue-chip index climbed as much as 61 points in the first 30 minutes of trading but stumbled in midmorning and never regained its footing. 

 IBM fell $7.31 to close at $178.31 as investors took profits after big gains Monday and Tuesday on the company's announcement that it will split its stock. 

 The Nasdaq composite fell 26.27 points to 2,407.14. The Standard & Poor's 500 composite lost 9.14 points to 1,243.17. Decliners led advancers on the New York Stock Exchange by 11 to 6. 

 Concerns that recession will spread throughout Latin America weighed heavily on the stocks of U.S. banks. Dow component Citigroup, which has made many loans in Latin America, fell $1.50 to $54. 

 Banks were also dragged down after First Union said a change in the way it accounts for the sale of lower-quality home-equity loans will cut 1999 earnings. First Union shares, which fell $4.88 to $52.19, were "weighing heavily on most of the financial services companies," said Ronald J. Hill, strategist at Brown Bros. Harriman & Co. 

 Internet stocks continued to surge after online book vendor Amazon.com reported a narrower loss than analysts expected. Amazon rose $10.56 to $125.63. Online auctioneer EBay rocketed $82.63 to $303.50 after a strong earnings report. 

 The Interactive Week Internet index gained 3.8%. The Nasdaq composite, up almost 40% in 1998, has gained 9.8% this year. 

 "Although [technology] is a good leading group for the market, it's uncomfortable that it's the only game in town," said Bob Dickey, a technical analyst at Dain Rauscher Wessels in Minneapolis. 

 Meanwhile, Brazil's real lost another 3.7% against the dollar to close at 1.91 on Wednesday, despite a hike in interest rates that was designed to bolster confidence and slow investor flight. Brazil abandoned its defense of the currency on Jan. 13, and the real has since lost more than 50% of its value. 

 Brazil's central bank raised overnight bank lending rate to 35.5%, from 32.5%, a hike that will be passed along to consumer and business borrowers. Brazil's largest stock market shrugged off the increase, with the Bovespa index adding 0.55% to 7647. 

 Higher interest rates are supposed to curb inflation and make Brazil more attractive to investors. But they will also increase its horrific fiscal deficit by raising the cost of borrowing. 

 Latin America economist Arturo Porzecanski of ING Barings in New York said rates of 40% might be necessary to stop capital outflows that have totaled $8 billion this month. 

 Expectations rose that Brazil would announce a new fiscal initiative to cut its budget even further, possibly with massive layoffs of government employees. 

 In Munich, World Bank president James Wolfensohn predicted that Brazil will soon unveil such a package and that it will help stabilize the currency and restore confidence. 

 U.S. bond yields were little changed. 

 In currency trading, the dollar surged to a four-week high against the Japanese yen, rising to 115.82 from 113.82, and to its highest level yet against the euro. 

 Among Wednesday's highlights: 

 * Borders Group fell $3.13 to $17.13 after the book retailer issued its second profit warning this month, saying storms are hurting January sales. 

 * Airline stocks declined after American Airlines' chief executive said industry capacity was likely to exceed demand for air travel in 1999. 

 American parent AMR slipped $2.69 to $53.19, US Airways lost $2.94 to $46.06 and Delta Air Lines dropped $2.19 to $49.31. 

 * The sharp gains in Net stocks did not carry into blue-chip tech names, as Microsoft lost $2.81 to $168.75. 

 Overseas, Tokyo's Nikkei index rose 0.5%, Frankfurt's DAX index was up 1.5%, and the CAC-40 in Paris added 0.7%. But the FTSE-100 index in London eased 0.2%. 

 Market Roundup, C8 

 GRAPHIC-CHART: Daily Diary, Wednesday, Jan. 27, 1999 

Document latm000020010828dv1s006lj




 Coca-Cola 4Q Matches Preannounced Forecast; Stock Down 3.4% 

 By Cathleen Egan 
291 words
26 January 1999
16:17
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Coca-Cola Co. (KO), battling the vagaries of sluggish foreign economies, met its earlier predictions of lower fourth-quarter profits and soft unit volume. 

 The Atlanta beverage company already warned Wall Street last month that unfavorable currency swaps and economic slowdowns in many important markets, such as Brazil and Russia, would crimp quarterly earnings and hamper volume growth. 

 Indeed, Coke's predictions proved accurate. The company reported Tuesday that global case volume, a well-monitored bellwether of the underlying business, declined 1% in the fourth quarter. Coke had already disclosed that quarterly volume would be affected by fewer shipping days. 

 Fourth-quarter net income declined 27% to $597 million, or 24 cents a share. 

 "This is one of the weakest profit performances from this company," said Goldman Sachs & Co. analyst Marc Cohen. It also makes the second consecutive quarter that Coke - despite its reputation for earnings stability and predictability - has had to issue a profit warning. 

 Analysts are now waiting for the company to turn around depressed volume trends. But that may not come until the second half of 1999, as Coke faces tough volume comparisons in both the first and second quarters and economies in many key markets remain unstable. 

 "It's an uncertain situation," said Merrill Lynch & Co. analyst Emanuel Goldman. "Long term, it's a fabulous company. Near term, they have to deal with the worst economic situation since the Depression." 


Coke, a component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, was recently
trading at 60 13/16, down 2 1/8, or 3.4%.
   - Cathleen Egan; 201-938-5289



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  01-26-99



11:17 AM


Document dj00000020010826dv1q00xmp




 WRAP: Philips Issues 2nd  Profit - Warning  In Four Months 

244 words
26 January 1999
14:42
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 By Heleen de Graaf 

 AMSTERDAM (Dow Jones)--Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHG) issued another profit-warning Tuesday as it predicted that 1998 earnings from normal business operations will be "marginally" below those posted in 1997. 

 The warning was the second in four months. Late September, the company surprised the market by declaring that 1998 income from normal operations, excluding extra gains or charges, would be equal to the 1997 result of NLG3.29 billion (EUR1=NLG2.20371). 

 Philips Tuesday didn't specify the reasons for the lower results, but some analysts said that they believe the results of the group's semiconductor division and consumer electronics division will be worse than previously thought. 

 In September, Philips blamed losses at its telecommunications joint venture with Lucent Technologies (LU) of the U.S. for the lower-than-expected results. The two companies announced the end of the venture in October. 

 Philips also said Tuesday that it will take higher-than-expected pretax charges, totaling NLG2 billion, in the fourth quarter of 1998. 

 Most of the charges, about NLG1.5 billion, are related to issues already reported by the Dutch group: the unwinding and restructuring of the Lucent joint venture, Philips Consumer Communications; the restructuring of the Philips Display Corp; and the adjustments of the accounting principles of ATL Ultrasound, acquired by Philips in July for $800 million. 

 (MORE) DOW JONES NEWS  01-26-99 

 09:42 AM 

Document dj00000020010826dv1q00wz8




 FFBN Drug Wrap:Lg Pharm 1.2% Gain Led Sector Rally (CONT) 

657 words
21 January 1999
13:40
Federal Filings Newswires
FF
English
(c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


genomics alliance with Schering-Plough Corp. (SGP) to discover and
develop new pharmaceutical products to treat fungal infections.  The
research milestone triggered a payment to Genome Therapeutics.
Financial terms were not disclosed.  Genome Therapeutics developed and
delivered to Schering-Plough proprietary genomic technologies for the
rapid identification of novel target genes in two medically important
fungal pathogens, Candida albicans and Aspergillus fumigatus.  This
multi-year research program has a potential value of $33 million,
excluding royalties based on sales of therapeutic products resulting
from this collaboration.
                                             Net    Pct    EPS    EPS
                                    Close  Change Change   98E    99E
SMITHKLINE BEECHAM PLC (SBH)         72    -1 1/2 -2.0%  $1.71  $1.94



SmithKline Beecham won FDA approval for its Nicorette Mint nicotine gum
for over-the-counter sale.  The seven month approval time-frame
demonstrates the agency's continued commitment to reduce the number of
smokers by increasing the availability of treatment options.  Nicorette
Mint is the third proven option for stopping smoking available from
SmithKline Beecham, the providers of Nicorette nicotine gum and NicoDerm
CQ nicotine patch.
                                             Net    Pct    EPS    EPS
                                    Close  Change Change   98E    99E
GENEMEDICINE INC. (GMED)              3    -1/16  -2.0%    N/A    N/A
GeneMedicine announced the publication of animal model data
demonstrating the applicability of its proprietary gene regulation
system, GeneSwitch, to effectively regulate protein production by genes
delivered using adenoviral vectors.  These studies show the expanded
potential uses of the GeneSwitch technology to include both viral and
plasmid-based gene therapy, as well as functional genomic studies using
transgenic animals.
                                             Net    Pct    EPS    EPS
                                    Close  Change Change   98E    99E
THERAGENICS CORP. (TGX)            7 9/16   -1/2  -6.2%  $0.48  $0.59
A class action lawsuit was filed against Theragenics on behalf of
purchasers of the company's stock between January 29, 1998 and January
11, 1999.  The complaint charges that company defendants violated
Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule
10-b(5) by, among other things, issuing false misleading statements
regarding Theragenics' financial condition, as well as its present and
future business prospects. Because of the issuance of a series of false
and misleading statements, the price of Theragenics common stock was
artificially inflated between January 29, 1998 and January 11, 1999.
=======================================================================
         Turning to the broader market, on Wednesday, the Dow Jones
Industrial Average declined 19.31 to 9335.91, the S&P 500 Index rose
5.73 to 1256.62 and the Nasdaq Composite Index added 7.32 to 2415.49.
         CNNfn reported that a bout of profit taking killed Wall
Street's promising rally Wednesday, leaving the Dow in the red and the
Nasdaq with just enough of a gain to register a new record high.
            Earnings news, especially from technology leaders like
Microsoft, dominated the trading session, which also was spiced up by
upbeat talk on the U.S. economy and a warning for the stock market from
Alan Greenspan.
         Bonds fell, hurt by the mostly strong performances of stock
markets around the world as well as hints from Federal Reserve Chairman
Alan Greenspan that an interest rate cut is unlikely in the near future.
The benchmark 30-year Treasury bond lost 10.32 of a point in price for a
yield of 5.16%.
=======================================================================
Brian A. Tunison
Research Analyst
(202) 393-0426
E-mail: brian.tunison@fedfil.com
Christian Guadalupe
Financial Reporter
(202) 393-7846
E-mail: chris.guadalupe@fedfil.com
Note: All earnings estimates provided by Zacks Investment Research.
Index components are available on request.
9 08:39  COPYRIGHT (c) 1999 FEDERAL FILINGS, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVE



(END) FEDERAL FILINGS-DOW JONES NEWS 01-21-99



08:40


Document ff00000020010827dv1l008ds




 Chairman Says Alcatel In Talks To Acquire Small, Midsize U.S. Firms 

390 words
21 January 1999
16:10
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 PARIS -(Dow Jones)- In an effort to expand its global reach, French telecommunications-equipment maker Alcatel SA Thursday said it is talking with several small to midsize U.S. companies about possible acquisitions. 

 But Chairman Serge Tchuruk, who has come under fire for the company's recent performance, said his company would avoid a deal the size of Lucent Technologies Inc.'s estimated $20 billion buyout offer for Ascend Communications Inc., a maker of high-speed networking gear. 

 Alcatel (ALA) earlier this week quashed fresh rumors that Tchuruk was stepping down. 

 Thursday, Tchuruk said he believes Lucent's acquisition of Ascend is fraught with risk, mainly that top talent often leaves a company once a takeover is completed. To illustrate that point, Tchuruk said while the going rate in the industry for acquisitions of start-up telecom companies was $3-$4 million per engineer, Lucent paid what amounts to $15 million for each Ascend engineer. But by no means is Ascend considered a start-up. 

 Alcatel is willing to pay for talent, but on a smaller scale to minimize the risk of departures following the completion of an acquisition, he said. 

 "Our strategy is one centered on the U.S. market, because that happens to be where all the advances in our sector are being made and where the Internet is used the most," he said. "And it's one centered on acquisitions." 

 Alcatel demonstrated its willingness to invest in the U.S. last year, with its acquisition of Texas-based DSC Communications Corp. for $4.4 billion in stock. That one purchase doubled Alcatel's size in the U.S. market. France's once-struggling trains-to-telecommunications conglomerate has been trying to reinvent itself as a high-tech company. It sold off loads of businesses and is expanding its satellite operations. 

 But the company continues to be under a cloud after it surprised shareholders with a profit warning after reporting poor first-half results Sept. 17. The company had said its 1998 operating profit would fall about 1.5 billion francs ($264 million) short of estimates because of canceled equipment orders from big telephone operators and a deepening of the Asian and Russian economic crises. 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020329dv1l01pxr




 International News 
 Fed Chief Sends Word of Caution To Wall Street 

 By David Wessel 
Staff Reporter
558 words
21 January 1999
The Asian Wall Street Journal
AWSJ
2
English
(c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said there is a "possibility" that the stock market "will have difficulty" sustaining its recent performance, and that it expects "substantially greater growth in profits than has been experienced of late." 

 The stock market shrugged off Mr. Greenspan's admonition, delivered in much less quotable words than his December 1996 warning about "irrational exuberance." Stock prices rose steadily after his comments to the U.S. House Ways and Means Committee, but the Dow Jones Industrial Average ended lower after a round of profit-taking late in the session, closing down 19.31 points at 9335.91. 

 The Fed chairman noted that the pace of economic growth in the U.S. is "widely expected to moderate" this year, which the Fed would welcome, although "signs of an appreciable slowdown as yet remain scant." His brief comments on the economy didn't alter the widespread expectation that the Fed will leave interest rates unchanged when officials meet in early February. 

 Mr. Greenspan's carefully worded comments about the stock market in his prepared testimony drew few questions from committee members. They were preoccupied with trying to get Mr. Greenspan to take sides in the looming battle between President Bill Clinton and congressional Republicans over Social Security, the federal budget surplus and tax cuts. 

 For once, the Fed chairman was explicit. He endorsed President Clinton's proposal to let federal budget surpluses accumulate by locking up most of the money in the Social Security and Medicare trust funds. But he attacked Mr. Clinton's plan to invest to 15% of the Social Security trust fund in the stock market, arguing it would be "virtually impossible" to insulate investment managers from political influence. 

 Mr. Greenspan said he worries that future politicians will seek to tap the Social Security trust fund's private investments to finance pet projects. He noted that state and local government pension funds generally don't do as well in the stock market as privately managed pension funds do. 

 Proponents of investing Social Security funds in the stock market say that the returns would exceed the returns on the current portfolio of Treasury bonds, and Mr. Greenspan acknowledged as much. But from the viewpoint of the overall economy, he said, total returns depend on corporate profits, productivity and technology; it doesn`t matter who owns the securities. So if the Social Security trust fund buys equities and claims a bigger piece of corporate profits, private investors necessarily must settle for a smaller piece, he said. 

 To his fellow Republicans' disappointment, Mr. Greenspan described tax cuts as a distinctly second choice to the Clinton plan. He said Congress should use the surplus -- which President Clinton projects to total $4.5 trillion over the next 15 years -- for tax cuts only if it doesn't have the discipline to allow the surpluses to continue. 

 Mr. Greenspan described the stock market's remarkable run-up as "one key element behind our current prosperity" because it has both lowered the cost of business investment in plant and equipment and spurred consumer spending. "A flattening of stock prices would likely slow the growth of spending," he said, and a "severe" drop "could lead to a considerable weakening of consumer demand." 

Document awsj000020010825dv1l001ms




 Fed Chief Sends Word of Caution 

 By David Wessel 
Staff Reporter
643 words
21 January 1999
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
13
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said there is a "possibility" that the stock market "will have difficulty" sustaining its recent performance, and that it expects "substantially greater growth in profits than has been experienced of late." 

 The stock market initially shrugged off Mr. Greenspan's admonition, delivered in much less quotable words than his December 1996 warning about "irrational exuberance." Stock prices rose steadily after his comments to the U.S. House Ways and Means Committee, but the Dow Jones Industrial Average ended lower after a round of profit-taking late in the session, closing down 19.31 points at 9335.91. 

 The Fed chairman noted that the pace of economic growth in the U.S. is "widely expected to moderate" this year, which the Fed would welcome, although "signs of an appreciable slowdown as yet remain scant." His brief comments on the economy didn't alter the widespread expectation that the Fed will leave interest rates unchanged when officials meet in early February. 

 Mr. Greenspan's carefully worded comments about the stock market in his prepared testimony drew few questions from committee members. They were preoccupied with trying to get Mr. Greenspan to take sides in the looming battle between President Bill Clinton and congressional Republicans over Social Security, the federal budget surplus and tax cuts. 

 For once, the Fed chairman was explicit. He endorsed President Clinton's proposal to let federal budget surpluses accumulate by locking up most of the money in the Social Security and Medicare trust funds. But he attacked Mr. Clinton's plan to invest to 15% of the Social Security trust fund in the stock market, arguing it would be "virtually impossible" to insulate investment managers from political influence. 

 Mr. Greenspan said he worries that future politicians will seek to tap the Social Security trust fund's private investments to finance pet projects. He noted that state and local government pension funds generally don't do as well in the stock market as privately managed pension funds do. 

 Proponents of investing Social Security funds in the stock market say that the returns would exceed the returns on the current portfolio of Treasury bonds, and Mr. Greenspan acknowledged as much. But from the viewpoint of the overall economy, he said, total returns depend on corporate profits, productivity and technology; it doesn`t matter who owns the securities. So if the Social Security trust fund buys equities and claims a bigger piece of corporate profits, private investors necessarily must settle for a smaller piece, he said. 

 To his fellow Republicans' disappointment, Mr. Greenspan described tax cuts as a distinctly second choice to the Clinton plan. He said Congress should use the surplus -- which President Clinton projects to total $4.5 trillion over the next 15 years -- for tax cuts only if it doesn't have the discipline to allow the surpluses to continue. 

 Mr. Greenspan described the stock market's remarkable run-up as "one key element behind our current prosperity" because it has both lowered the cost of business investment in plant and equipment and spurred consumer spending. "A flattening of stock prices would likely slow the growth of spending," he said, and a "severe" drop "could lead to a considerable weakening of consumer demand." 

 But he insisted that the Fed isn't trying to make the market go up or down. He made a special attempt to deny suggestions on Wall Street that last autumn's Fed interest-rate cuts were an attempt "to prop up equity prices." 

 Fed officials will, however, "question from time to time whether asset prices may not embody a more optimistic outlook than seems reasonable" and point out "what the consequences might be of a further rise in those prices followed by a steep decline," Mr. Greenspan said. 

Document wsje000020010830dv1l001za




 New report on pharmaceutical industry projects profound, long-term, systemic change and short-term earnings gap 

1,473 words
20 January 1999
14:23
Canada NewsWire
CNNW
English
(c) 1999 Canada NewsWire

 Study by The Boston Consulting Group Provides Roadmap to Help Industry 

 Leaders Negotiate Short-Term Turbulence and the Demands of a ``New Era'' 

 for Pharmaceutical Competition 

 TORONTO, Jan. 20 /CNW/ - The Boston Consulting Group (BCG) today released a far-sighted study of the global pharmaceutical business that portrays an industry at the threshold of both dramatic short-term financial pressures and long-term structural challenges that will demand a new philosophical and strategic approach to science and the marketplace. 

 ``The Pharmaceutical Industry into its Second Century: From Serendipity to Strategy,'' the result of a year-long study by BCG's global healthcare practice, details how pharmaceutical companies will disappoint Wall Street because of short-term operating pressures and how, in the longer term, technological breakthroughs and a new healthcare consumer will present a strikingly different playing field for pharmaceutical competitors. The opportunity inherent in the new era of pharmaceuticals will be available to only the most flexible and visionary players, which must invest today to benefit from future opportunities. 

 The BCG report serves as a roadmap for the pharmaceutical industry's most senior executives. The study provides conceptual and operational recommendations designed to help industry leaders negotiate the short-term turbulence and the demands of the emerging new era. 

 ``The 100-year-old pharmaceutical industry is at an important crossroads and is facing a period of radical change. The next 20 years will see a revolution in care, characterized by both a surge in medical treatments available and a bigger emphasis on the individual patient playing a leading role in the healthcare system,'' said Philippe Guy, senior vice president at BCG and head of the firm's global healthcare practice. ``Our study provides industry leaders, analysts, R&D professionals, healthcare providers and payers with a realistic view of the future.'' 

 Wall Street's Expectations Don't Take Into Account Pressures on 

 Pharmaceutical Companies 

 According to the BCG report, Wall Street currently expects pharmaceutical companies to deliver 13% earnings growth. This would follow the six years between 1992 and 1997 when earnings grew an average of 11% per year, outperforming the S&P 500 index by 90%. 

 The reality, according to the BCG study, is that even the top pharmaceutical players will have trouble generating more than 7.7% growth. In fact, the typical pharmaceutical player will lose as much as 35% of 1995 sales to generic drug competition over the next five years. 

 The financial crisis stems from (a) payer pressures on prices, (b) an unprecedented number of patent expirations that will reduce sales and enable generic drugs to cannibalize volume and force branded manufacturers to cut prices, and (c) a late-stage development pipeline for new products that is less than that required to make up the gap. 

 Solutions for the Short Term 

 For pharmaceutical companies, short-term survival, or at least independence, may require the following steps, according to the report: 

 -  Speeding up and streamlining product launches. Earnings will improve 

 if the average pharmaceutical company could reduce FDA approval time 

 to 11 months from the usual 23. 

 -  Partnering with other organizations. Pharmaceutical companies should 

 tap into biotech companies and academic labs for compounds that could 

 lead to new product launches. 

 -  Making a full global commitment and rapidly penetrating the top-seven 

 international markets. Senior management should accelerate global 

 launches so drugs reach peak worldwide sales in five years rather than 

 seven. 

 -  Reducing costs immediately through inventory and capital asset 

 management. 

 ``The above steps could result in significant earnings growth for many strong pharmaceutical companies,'' said Gayatri Sondhi, the BCG vice president who spearheaded the study. ``While some managers may determine that mergers represent the best way to deliver growth, the act of merging in and of itself will likely not be enough. Even merged companies will have to move quickly to achieve synergies that will be able to meet the market's earnings expectations.'' 

 The Bigger, Longer-Range Challenge 

 ``The pharmaceutical organizations that survive the near-term financial challenges will have to leverage their flexibility and vision to prepare for a new environment that will present even more managerial, strategic, scientific and philosophic challenges - and opportunities,'' Ms. Sondhi said. 

 The current ``paradigm'' in the pharmaceutical industry is becoming outdated, according to the BCG report. In this paradigm, pharmaceutical companies operate with vertically-integrated corporate structures and produce new drugs slowly, through intensive labor, capital and luck. Pharmaceutical companies have tended to hang their fortunes on ``blockbuster drugs,'' big-sellers that are aimed at mass markets. 

 ``And in the process of aiming at mass markets, pharmaceutical companies tend to think more about payers and providers - insurers and medical institutions, that is - than about really focusing on the patients themselves,'' said Ms. Sondhi. 

 According to the report, mass-market pharmaceutical compounds are not effective for entire patient populations: 20% to 50% of prescriptions today are either marginally effective or wholly ineffective for certain patient populations. Current market dynamics prompt ``me too'' imitators from competitors that target the same mass markets. 

 The pharmaceutical industry will, however, be forced to a different plain by (a) revolutionary scientific breakthroughs that will expand drug production exponentially and (b) more sophisticated and activist pharmaceutical consumers. 

 Greater Volume, Precision in Drug Production 

 Genomics, the science of mapping genes, will enable the generation of 3,000 to 10,000 gene-targeted drugs over the next 10 years. 

 Combinatorial chemistry, a form of automated chemical synthesis, allows scientists to create new drugs at 10,000 times the recent rate - at a tenth of the cost. 

 High-throughput screening, which uses automation, robotics and miniaturization, has already speeded up the screening of new drugs by an order of 100. 

 New, prolific scientific discoveries will render obsolete pharmaceutical companies' traditional, vertical corporate structures. 

 The New Pharmaceutical ``Consumer'' 

 Just as discovery will get more complex and sophisticated, so will the end-user of medications, the consumer. Access to counseling groups, Internet communities and sophisticated advertising are empowering patients to participate more actively in their care. 

 Said Ms. Sondhi, ``Better educated consumers will drive demand. Pharmaceutical companies will have to immerse themselves to a greater degree in issues of diagnostics and managing patient care.'' 

 The Convergence of Prolific Discovery and a More ``Activist'' Patient 

 Universe Will Force Major Adjustments in Product Arrays 

 ``Blockbuster'' drugs will become the pharmaceutical strategy of the past, as manufacturers will be called upon to develop ``suites'' of products tailored for better-defined patient sub-populations. 

 ``Pharmacogenomics'' - a science that combines the knowledge and study of genetics with the process of developing new drugs - will enable pharmaceutical companies to create treatments geared to distinct genetic variations of any particular disease. Companies will, in essence, be able to predict which patients are likely to respond to which ``suites`` of medications. With this capability, a pharmaceutical company will have the opportunity to market to specific patient subgroups. 

 ``Pharmacogenomics and prolific discovery present tremendous opportunities to the pharmaceutical industry. They also present R&D, managerial and marketing challenges that the industry, in its current structure, will have a hard time meeting,'' said Ms. Sondhi. ``Big pharmaceutical players will have to learn to rely on outside partners, develop new information technology and refine their marketing approaches.'' 

 Prescriptions for Negotiating the New Playing Field in Pharmaceuticals 

 The BCG report contains specific recommendations designed to help senior executives formulate strategies for the new era of pharmaceuticals. Below are just a few of the broad, top-line prescriptions that the report treats in greater depth. The report recommends that senior executives: 

 -  Map out how to make partnering opportunities with specialized 

 organizations a central part of corporate strategy. 

 -  Embrace ``bioinformatics,'' advanced information technology designed 

 to store and leverage the vast quantities of data that is a byproduct 

 of prolific discovery and other new technologies. This data will have 

 to be shared across corporate boundaries. 

 -  Further integrate the product development and marketing functions at 

 pharmaceutical companies. This will be crucial, as genomics spawns 

 products for smaller sub-populations. 

 -  Strive to develop the most logical and complete ``suites'' of 

 products. 

 /Note to Journalists: Additional Insights Available in the ``From 

 Serendipity to Strategy'' Information Kit 

 In addition to the top-line insights included in this press release, other highlights from the BCG report on the pharmaceutical industry, and a copy of the report itself, are available by calling Anna Larson of BCG at (416) 955-4257 (larson.anna(at)bcg.com). The full kit contains the following information summaries: 

 -  Pharmaceuticals and Wall Street: A Financial Backgrounder 

 -  Technology and the Prolific Discovery of New Drugs 

 -  Pharmacogenomics and the New Drugs of the 21st Century 

 -  The Increasing Role of Small, Niche Players in Pharmaceuticals 

 -  The New, Activist Pharmaceutical Consumer 

 -  Key Findings of ``The Pharmaceutical Industry into its Second Century: 

 From Serendipity to Strategy'' 

 -  Executive Summary/ 

Document cnnw000020010826dv1k005r1


 CURRENCY SAMBA STIRS THE BLOOD. 

 By MALCOLM WHITTLE. 
490 words
17 January 1999
Sunday Herald Sun
SUHERS
54
English
(c) 1999 Herald and Weekly Times Limited

 Brazil provided a new year reality check as a currency crisis erupted on the overvalued markets of Europe and the United States, triggering a roller-coaster ride for the week. 

 BRAZIL 

 The resignation of Central Banker Gustavo Franco added instability as the Brazilian currency, the real, was devalued. 

 A capital flight had been accelerating, as one of the larger states refused to meet its debt obligations, and the tax bills needed to reduce the deficit were held up in the senate. 

 All markets in the region plummeted early in the week as the capital flight flowed on to other Latin American countries in a debt dependent region. 

 On Friday, Brazil floated its currency, triggering a spectacular market recovery with flow-on effects internationally, as almost all markets recorded gains. 

 EUROPE 

 Despite several merger rumors and British American Tobacco combining with Rothmans, European markets fell sharply early amid concerns over Brazil. 

 Many European banks have Latin American exposure, and the focus turned to other Third World risks as financial stocks were hammered. 

 Marks and Spencer in Britain issued a profit warning after poor Christmas sales, helping to weaken market sentiment. 

 Telecommunication stocks were lower as profit takers moved in. 

 Markets closed on Friday before the full reaction to the float of the Brazilian real had flowed through. Expect a catch-up on Monday. 

 UNITED STATES 

 Following the heady rises on the US market over Christmas, Brazil became the catalyst for profit taking as the market fell solidly early. 

 Internet stocks took a hammering as reality seemed to take hold. 

 There was some good news in tech stocks, with Apple and Intel posting pleasing fourth quarter results. 

 Lucent is to buy Ascend Communications for $29.3 billion, combining telephone equipment with computer networks. 

 New inflation, manufacturing and retail sales figures point towards a healthy, still growing economy. 

 The turnaround on the Brazilian market triggered a strong recovery on Friday, led by the financial sector. 

 JAPAN 

 The rise in the yen was halted early in the week by the Bank of Japan selling the the national currency, relieving pressure on exporters. 

 The market rose against a world trend, in a country where the interests of exporters take precedence. 

 Other Asian markets fell on concerns that problems in Brazil could lead to a contraction in capital for all developing countries. 

 The market was down in Hong Kong. 

 AUSTRALIA 

 Economic statistics pointed to a robust economy, which supported the share market, but reduced hopes of another reduction in interest rates. 

 Resource stocks rallied strongly early in the week. But the escalation in the Brazilian crisis ended the surge in commodity prices and thus resource stocks, though the sector still closed higher for the week. 

 The recovery in Europe and the US will flow into our market on Monday. 

 Malcolm Whittle, of Whittle & Skok, with Mark Ackers, of Fortrend Securities. 

 (C) 1999 Herald and Weekly Times Limited. 

Document suhers0020010911dv1h004aj




 REAL ESTATE 
 COVER STORY / Great Expectations 

 Randi Feigenbaum. STAFF WRITER 
2,336 words
15 January 1999
Newsday
NDAY
ALL EDITIONS
C10
English
 (Copyright Newsday Inc., 1999) 

 PERHAPS a warning should appear on all Long Island home sales listings and For Sale signs in 1999: 

 "Buyer beware: This house will cost more than you want to spend, and won't have everything you want." 

 Even with such a warning, the homes would sell. 

 The fundamental problem that began in 1998 is likely to explode in 1999: The housing marketplace won't meet local buyers' demands. 

 Up to now, buyers have been bending, paying more than they wanted, or snatching up homes even though they are missing desired features. That will keep happening early this year. But soon, there may be a breaking point, real estate experts predict. 

 The point may come where buyers won't buy at any price, or won't settle for less house than they wanted. Either way, the fevered pace that has produced three straight record years in Long Island home sales probably can't be sustained in 1999, local experts said. 

 Real estate agents and builders are more uncertain about the future of home prices here. While they agree prices will stay relatively high, some said the area already hit its peaks - which produced record prices in Nassau and Queens Counties last fall. But others think prices will rise even higher. 

 "Prices will continue to go up, but I'm not sure they're going to go up at the same pace they did in '98," said Century 21 Laffey broker/owner Mark Laffey. 

 Price appreciation will be particularly evident in new homes since builders have to pass on their increasing land and supplies costs to their buyers. 

 Among the other trends to look for: 

 -- Local existing home sales, which in 1998 hit record numbers both in terms of the number of houses sold and dollar volumne for the third year in a row, will come off those highs and settle down. While final figures aren't in, Long Island Board of Realtors chief executive Joe Mottola predicts that Long Island sales hit more than $3.9 billion in 1998. "On a scale of 1 to 10, we may be talking about this year being a 9 and next year being an 8," he said. "We're not talking a 9 and a 3." 

 -- New home construction, which increased in 1998, is expected to maintain last year's strong pace. Long Island Association chief economist Pearl Kamer said building permits in 1998 were expected to near 6,000, up 12.6 percent from a year before. She expects the 1998 figure would remain about the same this year. 

 -- A larger volume of homes may finally appear on the market this spring, ending the shortage of desireable homes for sale and thus causing a disappearance of the bidding wars and frenzied prices. The inventory of houses for sale locally dropped in 1998 by 17 percent off 1997 figures, and most agents said they expected some recovery from last year's lows in 1999. 

 -- Some area home builders may find themselves playing catch-up this year, because they don't have the subcontractor labor to construct the homes in 1999 as quickly as they sold in 1998. 

 -- Interest rates are expected to hover below 7 percent throughout 1999, keeping buyer demand strong. 

 -- Nationally, existing and new home sales are both expected to slip down from last year's height of activity (when both new home and existing home sales hit records). But experts expect the market to remain strong. National Association of Realtors economist John Tuccillo said the overall economy's path would drive real estate's, making 1999 "a year of slower growth than 1998 but it will still be positive." 

 Still, the bottom line on Long Island is that home builders and sellers are still not going to meet buyer demand. So, while the fundamental outlook for the industry is a thumbs-up, those in the industry - and others watching from the outside - temper their enthusiasm with a measure of caution. 

 "There will come a point where buyers will balk," said Daniel Gale Real Estate president Pat Peterson. "It's a difficult environment to work in . . .  We have to be ready to position {sellers} so they're at the maximum they can achieve, but not overly ambitious." 

 Determining where the threshold is, however, is anything but easy. Potential buyers are often willing to pay more to get what they want, but they have limits. Farmingdale apartment renters Ron and Christine Breuer have been searching for their first home since late November, and have become increasingly frustrated by their inability to get what they want for the price they're willing to pay. But the young couple has decided they won't bid up a house that's not worth the price. 

 "It's hard not to buy on emotion," said Ron Breuer, 24. "You have to know not to get involved in something that will wind up costing you too much." Breuer, who is in sales, said his professional experience has helped him keep his head during the process. 

 During the last months of 1998, traditionally the industry's slow time, real estate agents were still seeing frenzied bidding at or above asking price. The Breuers, who are looking for new construction, have already lost out in bidding situations, finding it difficult to make such an important decision so quickly. Said Ron Breuer: "If you see something good, brokers say it'll sell within a week. But if you're not ready, it's very difficult." 

 Maureen Storm, who now lives in Whitestone, was a recent beneficiary of the frenzy. Storm, 74, sold her Bayside three-bedroom colonial for her asking price - $189,000, closing on the sale on Dec. 1. Originally on the market in June, Storm's house received several offers, until one buyer bid the asking price. But in July, Storm became ill, and spent several months in the hospital, delaying the sale. 

 "They held onto it," Storm said incredulously of her buyers. "They wouldn't let it go." 

 Re/Max Millenium agent Judy Markowitz, who handled the sale, said that the buyers saw nothing else suitable in the interim, so they were still willing to wait and pay the asking price. 

 While Storm may have been surprised by the price she got, many sellers are now becoming accustomed to getting their price. 

 "The bargain doesn't really exist right now," said Renah Bell, an agent with Century 21 Yve in Hewlett. Bell noted, however, that some buyers have found good deals in unusual circumstances, such as foreclosure auctions. But that supply has become more limited, too. 

 With stock running out, agents hope more sellers will begin putting their homes on the market in the spring. A jump in inventory would give buyers more leverage, forcing prices down. 

 "There's one thing I'm very sure of," said Barbara Corcoran with The Corcoran Group, one of the top upscale brokers in Manhattan. "We're going to have more to sell." 

 Long Island real estate agents voiced similar optimism. Ray Manzoni, with Manzoni Real Estate in Mount Sinai, said sellers might start this spring thinking that if they wait, they could miss out on the pricing highs. 

 With more homes on the market, buyers would become more selective and more careful, industry experts said. 

 Even now, buyers like the Breuers won't grab just anything. For Whitestone resident Zivko Pulisic, the search for a first home proved arduous. But then a Tudor in Flushing came on the market - and he and his pregnant wife, Virginia, knew they had to have it. They purchased the four-family home for $535,000, just $15,000 under the asking price. 

 "It was very frustrating. Most of the homes in the areas we were looking were beautiful, large homes, but they weren't kept up, or they were very expensive," said Zivko Pulisic, who had to bid against several other potential buyers to get their dream house. 

 Despite hopes for additional inventory, the industry will probably remain seller-friendly through 1999, according to Long Island Board of Realtors president Barbara Frechter, with Glenjay Realty in Forest Hills. 

 The shortage of good houses on the resale market has triggered a boom for new home builders. Even with rising prices, developments that normally would have taken several years to sell are now selling in half the time. 

 "The demand is unprecedented at least in the last 10 years," said Michael Dubb, a partner in the Beechwood Organization, which sold out 193 units at Country Point in Melville in a year and a half, instead of three years as expected. "We face tremendous pressure in every direction to attempt to meet {the demand}." 

 Buyers like Commack resident Susan Henderson cite the lack of available resales in their decision to purchase new homes. Henderson, 38, has lived in a small ranch for 14 years.  With two young daughters, she and her husband, John, wanted something bigger - their dream house. 

 "We were looking for a house for about a year and I couldn't find anything that was really what I was looking for," Henderson said. 

 Then she found out about the Park Ridge Organization's new development, Alicia Estates in Commack. Knowing she could get everything she wanted in a new home, from a basement to cathedral ceilings to Jacuzzi tubs, Henderson jumped at the opportunity. While ground hasn't been broken yet, and their home won't be done until next fall, the Hendersons are in contract for a five-bedroom colonial in a development where, without upgrades, homes start at $430,000. 

 While Henderson said she considers that a high price, and noted that property taxes will be "insane," she added that she didn't want to leave Long Island, especially because she has family here and she wanted to keep her children, Taylor, 5, and Brittany, 10, near friends. 

 Henderson, who bought her first home for $95,000, said resale inventory is so tight that real estate agents have come to her door asking her if she's interested in selling. 

 Henderson's story is common, as new home buyers find themselves willing to wait - and pay a high price - to get what they want. But the hot demand has meant that homes are sold much faster than builders can deliver. Builders said 1999 could be even worse, as land grows scarcer and more expensive, materials become pricier, and labor becomes harder to find. 

 Don Eversoll, of Klein and Eversoll in Commack, noted that his company has a 150-unit backlog going into the new year because homes sold more quickly than his workers and outside subcontractors, can finish the jobs. Historically, he noted, the company has produced 60 to 90 houses a year. 

 "If we don't sell another house, we'll deliver over 150 homes" in 1999, Eversoll said. "We've spent a lot of time focusing on how we can get our production up . . ." 

 Builders starting new projects are taking the lead in an attempt to serve a growing new home buyer market. Elliot Monter, president of the Holiday Organization, hopes this year to break ground on a 538-unit development in Plainview, over 65 acres. 

 In designing the unusually large project - on one of the last buildable sites in Nassau County - Monter has included different types of housing, from single-family homes and luxury condominiums, to low rise condominiums and two-story "villas." Prices range from $220,000 to $450,000. 

 Monter claims he is trying to appeal to a myriad of demographic groups, from young families to empty-nesters. 

 But one mixed-use project like Monter's doesn't satisfy the demand. 

 "We're going to have to do something to increase the diversity of housing and housing type," said local economist Kamer. "That's a perenial challenge." 

 And it's made even more difficult thanks to zoning regulations, community objections and a long permit process. "You try to introduce new concepts, but there's a stone wall there," Monter said. 

 Also hindering builders' attempts to meet demands are environmental concerns that have led to the preservation of many acres of land, especially on the eastern end of Long Island. 

 East End home buyers, as a result, have fewer options. Said Diane Saatchi, of Dayton Halstead in East Hampton: "When somebody calls and says they want a waterfront you say `Oh God.' The best you can do is disappoint them." 

 But Saatchi said supply has started to loosen in some parts of the market - like the $1 million to $1.8 million range - and could continue to improve as the year goes on. She noted that she expected summer buyers to become more cautious this year, perhaps even deciding to rent rather than buy, because of economic uncertainty and lower Wall Street bonuses, combined with higher home prices. "People are disappointed with what their budget can give them," she said. 

 But that frustration won't lead buyers away from the Long Island and New York City marketplace, agents said. "If the economy's good, they're going to buy anyway," Frechter said. 

 Newsday photo / John Keating- 1) Farmingdale apartment renters Ron and Christine Breuer, at top,  have been searching for their first home since late November. 2) Newsday Photo / John Paraskevas-Above, Elliot Monter, president of the Holiday Organization, hopes this year to break ground on a 538-unit development in Plainview, over 65 acres. 3) Newsday Photo / Patrick Andrade-Virginia and Zivko Pulisic in front of the four-family Tudor home they bought in Flushing for $535,000. Newsday Color Cover Chart / Illustration / Richard Cornett-1998 real estate market figures. Source: Mulitiple Listing service of Long Island and Census Bureau(Not in Text Database).; Caption: ON A ROLL. WILL 1999 BE A FOURTH STRAIGHT RECORD YEAR FOR LOCAL HOUSING. Newsday Color Cover Chart / Illustration / Richard Cornett- 1998 real estate market figures. Source: Mulitiple Listing service of Long Island and Census Bureau (Not in Text Database) 

Document nday000020030114dv1f00g43




 REAL ESTATE 
 COVER STORY / Great Expectations 

 Randi Feigenbaum. STAFF WRITER 
2,336 words
15 January 1999
Newsday
NDAY
ALL EDITIONS
C10
English
 (Copyright Newsday Inc., 1999) 

 PERHAPS a warning should appear on all Long Island home sales listings and For Sale signs in 1999: 

 "Buyer beware: This house will cost more than you want to spend, and won't have everything you want." 

 Even with such a warning, the homes would sell. 

 The fundamental problem that began in 1998 is likely to explode in 1999: The housing marketplace won't meet local buyers' demands. 

 Up to now, buyers have been bending, paying more than they wanted, or snatching up homes even though they are missing desired features. That will keep happening early this year. But soon, there may be a breaking point, real estate experts predict. 

 The point may come where buyers won't buy at any price, or won't settle for less house than they wanted. Either way, the fevered pace that has produced three straight record years in Long Island home sales probably can't be sustained in 1999, local experts said. 

 Real estate agents and builders are more uncertain about the future of home prices here. While they agree prices will stay relatively high, some said the area already hit its peaks - which produced record prices in Nassau and Queens Counties last fall. But others think prices will rise even higher. 

 "Prices will continue to go up, but I'm not sure they're going to go up at the same pace they did in '98," said Century 21 Laffey broker/owner Mark Laffey. 

 Price appreciation will be particularly evident in new homes since builders have to pass on their increasing land and supplies costs to their buyers. 

 Among the other trends to look for: 

 -- Local existing home sales, which in 1998 hit record numbers both in terms of the number of houses sold and dollar volumne for the third year in a row, will come off those highs and settle down. While final figures aren't in, Long Island Board of Realtors chief executive Joe Mottola predicts that Long Island sales hit more than $3.9 billion in 1998. "On a scale of 1 to 10, we may be talking about this year being a 9 and next year being an 8," he said. "We're not talking a 9 and a 3." 

 -- New home construction, which increased in 1998, is expected to maintain last year's strong pace. Long Island Association chief economist Pearl Kamer said building permits in 1998 were expected to near 6,000, up 12.6 percent from a year before. She expects the 1998 figure would remain about the same this year. 

 -- A larger volume of homes may finally appear on the market this spring, ending the shortage of desireable homes for sale and thus causing a disappearance of the bidding wars and frenzied prices. The inventory of houses for sale locally dropped in 1998 by 17 percent off 1997 figures, and most agents said they expected some recovery from last year's lows in 1999. 

 -- Some area home builders may find themselves playing catch-up this year, because they don't have the subcontractor labor to construct the homes in 1999 as quickly as they sold in 1998. 

 -- Interest rates are expected to hover below 7 percent throughout 1999, keeping buyer demand strong. 

 -- Nationally, existing and new home sales are both expected to slip down from last year's height of activity (when both new home and existing home sales hit records). But experts expect the market to remain strong. National Association of Realtors economist John Tuccillo said the overall economy's path would drive real estate's, making 1999 "a year of slower growth than 1998 but it will still be positive." 

 Still, the bottom line on Long Island is that home builders and sellers are still not going to meet buyer demand. So, while the fundamental outlook for the industry is a thumbs-up, those in the industry - and others watching from the outside - temper their enthusiasm with a measure of caution. 

 "There will come a point where buyers will balk," said Daniel Gale Real Estate president Pat Peterson. "It's a difficult environment to work in . . .  We have to be ready to position {sellers} so they're at the maximum they can achieve, but not overly ambitious." 

 Determining where the threshold is, however, is anything but easy. Potential buyers are often willing to pay more to get what they want, but they have limits. Farmingdale apartment renters Ron and Christine Breuer have been searching for their first home since late November, and have become increasingly frustrated by their inability to get what they want for the price they're willing to pay. But the young couple has decided they won't bid up a house that's not worth the price. 

 "It's hard not to buy on emotion," said Ron Breuer, 24. "You have to know not to get involved in something that will wind up costing you too much." Breuer, who is in sales, said his professional experience has helped him keep his head during the process. 

 During the last months of 1998, traditionally the industry's slow time, real estate agents were still seeing frenzied bidding at or above asking price. The Breuers, who are looking for new construction, have already lost out in bidding situations, finding it difficult to make such an important decision so quickly. Said Ron Breuer: "If you see something good, brokers say it'll sell within a week. But if you're not ready, it's very difficult." 

 Maureen Storm, who now lives in Whitestone, was a recent beneficiary of the frenzy. Storm, 74, sold her Bayside three-bedroom colonial for her asking price - $189,000, closing on the sale on Dec. 1. Originally on the market in June, Storm's house received several offers, until one buyer bid the asking price. But in July, Storm became ill, and spent several months in the hospital, delaying the sale. 

 "They held onto it," Storm said incredulously of her buyers. "They wouldn't let it go." 

 Re/Max Millenium agent Judy Markowitz, who handled the sale, said that the buyers saw nothing else suitable in the interim, so they were still willing to wait and pay the asking price. 

 While Storm may have been surprised by the price she got, many sellers are now becoming accustomed to getting their price. 

 "The bargain doesn't really exist right now," said Renah Bell, an agent with Century 21 Yve in Hewlett. Bell noted, however, that some buyers have found good deals in unusual circumstances, such as foreclosure auctions. But that supply has become more limited, too. 

 With stock running out, agents hope more sellers will begin putting their homes on the market in the spring. A jump in inventory would give buyers more leverage, forcing prices down. 

 "There's one thing I'm very sure of," said Barbara Corcoran with The Corcoran Group, one of the top upscale brokers in Manhattan. "We're going to have more to sell." 

 Long Island real estate agents voiced similar optimism. Ray Manzoni, with Manzoni Real Estate in Mount Sinai, said sellers might start this spring thinking that if they wait, they could miss out on the pricing highs. 

 With more homes on the market, buyers would become more selective and more careful, industry experts said. 

 Even now, buyers like the Breuers won't grab just anything. For Whitestone resident Zivko Pulisic, the search for a first home proved arduous. But then a Tudor in Flushing came on the market - and he and his pregnant wife, Virginia, knew they had to have it. They purchased the four-family home for $535,000, just $15,000 under the asking price. 

 "It was very frustrating. Most of the homes in the areas we were looking were beautiful, large homes, but they weren't kept up, or they were very expensive," said Zivko Pulisic, who had to bid against several other potential buyers to get their dream house. 

 Despite hopes for additional inventory, the industry will probably remain seller-friendly through 1999, according to Long Island Board of Realtors president Barbara Frechter, with Glenjay Realty in Forest Hills. 

 The shortage of good houses on the resale market has triggered a boom for new home builders. Even with rising prices, developments that normally would have taken several years to sell are now selling in half the time. 

 "The demand is unprecedented at least in the last 10 years," said Michael Dubb, a partner in the Beechwood Organization, which sold out 193 units at Country Point in Melville in a year and a half, instead of three years as expected. "We face tremendous pressure in every direction to attempt to meet {the demand}." 

 Buyers like Commack resident Susan Henderson cite the lack of available resales in their decision to purchase new homes. Henderson, 38, has lived in a small ranch for 14 years.  With two young daughters, she and her husband, John, wanted something bigger - their dream house. 

 "We were looking for a house for about a year and I couldn't find anything that was really what I was looking for," Henderson said. 

 Then she found out about the Park Ridge Organization's new development, Alicia Estates in Commack. Knowing she could get everything she wanted in a new home, from a basement to cathedral ceilings to Jacuzzi tubs, Henderson jumped at the opportunity. While ground hasn't been broken yet, and their home won't be done until next fall, the Hendersons are in contract for a five-bedroom colonial in a development where, without upgrades, homes start at $430,000. 

 While Henderson said she considers that a high price, and noted that property taxes will be "insane," she added that she didn't want to leave Long Island, especially because she has family here and she wanted to keep her children, Taylor, 5, and Brittany, 10, near friends. 

 Henderson, who bought her first home for $95,000, said resale inventory is so tight that real estate agents have come to her door asking her if she's interested in selling. 

 Henderson's story is common, as new home buyers find themselves willing to wait - and pay a high price - to get what they want. But the hot demand has meant that homes are sold much faster than builders can deliver. Builders said 1999 could be even worse, as land grows scarcer and more expensive, materials become pricier, and labor becomes harder to find. 

 Don Eversoll, of Klein and Eversoll in Commack, noted that his company has a 150-unit backlog going into the new year because homes sold more quickly than his workers and outside subcontractors, can finish the jobs. Historically, he noted, the company has produced 60 to 90 houses a year. 

 "If we don't sell another house, we'll deliver over 150 homes" in 1999, Eversoll said. "We've spent a lot of time focusing on how we can get our production up . . ." 

 Builders starting new projects are taking the lead in an attempt to serve a growing new home buyer market. Elliot Monter, president of the Holiday Organization, hopes this year to break ground on a 538-unit development in Plainview, over 65 acres. 

 In designing the unusually large project - on one of the last buildable sites in Nassau County - Monter has included different types of housing, from single-family homes and luxury condominiums, to low rise condominiums and two-story "villas." Prices range from $220,000 to $450,000. 

 Monter claims he is trying to appeal to a myriad of demographic groups, from young families to empty-nesters. 

 But one mixed-use project like Monter's doesn't satisfy the demand. 

 "We're going to have to do something to increase the diversity of housing and housing type," said local economist Kamer. "That's a perenial challenge." 

 And it's made even more difficult thanks to zoning regulations, community objections and a long permit process. "You try to introduce new concepts, but there's a stone wall there," Monter said. 

 Also hindering builders' attempts to meet demands are environmental concerns that have led to the preservation of many acres of land, especially on the eastern end of Long Island. 

 East End home buyers, as a result, have fewer options. Said Diane Saatchi, of Dayton Halstead in East Hampton: "When somebody calls and says they want a waterfront you say `Oh God.' The best you can do is disappoint them." 

 But Saatchi said supply has started to loosen in some parts of the market - like the $1 million to $1.8 million range - and could continue to improve as the year goes on. She noted that she expected summer buyers to become more cautious this year, perhaps even deciding to rent rather than buy, because of economic uncertainty and lower Wall Street bonuses, combined with higher home prices. "People are disappointed with what their budget can give them," she said. 

 But that frustration won't lead buyers away from the Long Island and New York City marketplace, agents said. "If the economy's good, they're going to buy anyway," Frechter said. 

 Newsday photo / John Keating- 1) Farmingdale apartment renters Ron and Christine Breuer, at top,  have been searching for their first home since late November. 2) Newsday Photo / John Paraskevas-Above, Elliot Monter, president of the Holiday Organization, hopes this year to break ground on a 538-unit development in Plainview, over 65 acres. 3) Newsday Photo / Patrick Andrade-Virginia and Zivko Pulisic in front of the four-family Tudor home they bought in Flushing for $535,000. Newsday Color Cover Chart / Illustration / Richard Cornett-1998 real estate market figures. Source: Mulitiple Listing service of Long Island and Census Bureau(Not in Text Database).; Caption: ON A ROLL. WILL 1999 BE A FOURTH STRAIGHT RECORD YEAR FOR LOCAL HOUSING. Newsday Color Cover Chart / Illustration / Richard Cornett- 1998 real estate market figures. Source: Mulitiple Listing service of Long Island and Census Bureau (Not in Text Database) 

Document nday000020020503dv1f02210




World Stock Markets
 Brazil's Main Index Plunges Still Lower, Casting General Pall Over Latin American Issues 

 By Sara Webb 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
1,425 words
13 January 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
C16
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 Brazil's key share index plummeted 7.6% as investors grew increasingly worried about the latest political tensions and big capital outflows from the country. 

 The renewed turbulence in Brazil's financial markets cast a pall over Latin American stocks generally. Argentina's Merval index fell 3.5%, Mexico's IPC index dropped 3.7%, and Venezuela's General index lost 6.6%. 

 Overall, the Dow Jones World Stock Index fell 3.66 points, or 1.76%, to 204.42, reflecting the steep drop in the Latin American markets and signs of profit-taking in the European and Asian markets. 

 In SAO PAULO, the Bovespa Index plunged through the 6000-point barrier, to close 488 points, or 7.6%, lower at 5915, off the intraday low of 5791. 

 Volume was a thin 302 million reals. Market bellwether Telebras receipts fell 8.6%, to 77.50 reals. 

 With Brazil's Bovespa index down as much as 9% at one stage, on the heels of a 5.6% decline Monday and 2.5% drop Friday, analysts warned that investors are growing increasingly concerned about the threat of renewed upheaval in the Latin American markets. 

 The trigger for the recent declines in Brazil came last week, when one of the big states in Brazil declared a 90-day debt payment moratorium. 

 Net capital outflows have been about $150 million a day, but some analysts warned that the outflow for yesterday alone could top $1 billion. 

 "We're seeing continued fallout from last week," when the state of Minas Gerais declared a moratorium on debt payments to the federal government, said Daniel C. Peirce, head of emerging-markets research at BancBoston Robertson Stephens. "It sort of feeds on itself, and when you have a big decline in Brazil, people tend to take money out" of Latin American markets, he added. 

 "Everyone is watching the capital outflows," said Jane Heap, Latin American strategist at Deutsche Bank Securities, in New York, adding that although investors are overreacting to the debt moratorium, "it's about perception, and it's happening at a time when Brazil needs to get through the rest of the fiscal reforms." 

 Brazil's troubles rattled some of the European stock markets, especially those such as Spain's where many companies have investments in the Latin American region. But after a strong start to the new year, thanks to merger activity and the launch of the euro, European stocks were ripe for some profit-taking, analysts said. They fell 2.4% in France, 2.3% in Spain, 1.3% in Germany, 1.8% in the Netherlands. and 0.8% in London. 

 Meanwhile in Asia, intervention in the currency markets led to a sudden strengthening of the dollar against the yen and helped to reverse early losses in the Japanese stock market. Tokyo's ended almost unchanged, Hong Kong's rose 0.7%, and South Korea's fell 1.5% after a long stretch of gains. 

 In trading in Asia Wednesday, Tokyo closed the morning session up 0.6%, while South Korea had gained 0.5% in late-morning dealings. Hong Kong was down 1.1% in early-morning trading. 

 In MADRID Tuesday, the IBEX-35 index dropped 238.10 points, or 2.3%, to 10010.50, reflecting big declines in those companies with substantial exposure to Latin America. 

 Spanish banks were among the biggest losers, with Banco Bilbao Vizcaya down 4.8% to 13.52 euros and Banco de Santander down 2.5% to 16.23 euros. Telecoms group Telefonica fell 3.3% to 40 euros. 

 In PARIS, the CAC 40 index dropped 2.4%, or 101.20 points, to 4100.70. 

 Computer-consulting and computerservices group Cap Gemini led decliners, down 13% to 136 euros, reflecting an analysts' downgrade in the stock. The company also said it has sold its 36% stake in information-technology concern Cisi. 

 Among the financial stocks, Paribas fell 5.5% to 78.35 euros, while Credit Commercial de France lost 7.6% to 73 euros. 

 Shares of luxury goods group LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton also fell back, ending down 2.2% at 206.4 euros. LVMH recently acquired a 5% stake in Italian fashion house Gucci, leading to a rally for both companies on speculation that LVMH may bid for Amsterdam-listed Gucci. Yesterday, LVMH said it has raised its stake in Gucci to at least 14.5%. 

 In AMSTERDAM, where the AEX Index closed at 536.24 points, down 9.53 points, or 1.8%, Gucci shares fell 4.4% to 57.90 euros. 

 Software maker Baan fell 9.9% to 11.35 euros. 

 In STOCKHOLM, the all-share General index closed down 1.7%, or 55.10 points, at 3274.91. Stocks such as auto maker Volvo and truck maker Scania, which have gained recently from speculation that they may be looking for merger partners, came off yesterday. 

 Volvo, which has had talks with Fiat of Italy, fell 3% to 210 kronor while Scania slid 1.1% to 173 kronor. 

 Bank stocks also suffered substantial declines, with S-E-Banken down 3.3% to 87 kronor, while Handelsbanken fell 2.2% to 332.50 kronor. 

 In LONDON, the FTSE-100 index shed 51.4 points, or 0.8%, to close at 6033.6. 

 Spirits and retail group Allied Domecq slumped 14% to 516 pence on a profit warning, which dragged other pub companies, brewers and retailers lower. Bass fell 8.5% to 805 pence, and was the secondworst performer in the blue-chip index, while AB Food fell 5.1% to 543.5 pence. 

 Pharmaceuticals stocks succumbed to profit-taking with SmithKline Beecham down nearly 4% to 866 pence, while Glaxo Wellcome lost 3.2% to 21.92. 

 In MILAN, where the Mibtel index fell 2.2% or 536 points to 24119, Olivetti shares ended 5.5% lower at 3.0 euros, just off a low of 2.96 euros, after sliding on talk that the telecoms group could be considering a takeover of Telecom Italia. 

 In FRANKFURT, the Xetra DAX index ended down 1.3%, or 70.34 points, at 5196.13. 

 Among the bank stocks, Dresdner Bank shed 4.8% to 39.50 euros, while Deutsche Bank fell 3% to 53.92 euros. 

 In TOKYO, intervention by the Bank of Japan boosted the sagging dollar and helped soothe concerns about the impact of a strong yen on Japanese exporters. The rebound in the dollar helped overturn the stock market's initial decline Tuesday morning, and as a result, the benchmark Nikkei index finished just 0.1% lower at 13360.97. 

 The stock market had opened down after the dollar fell to 108.21 yen for the first time since August 1996, and the Nikkei fell to an intraday low of 13212.30. 

 With the rebound in the dollar however, some exporters' shares managed to pare back their losses. However, Sony ended 0.9% lower at 7,390 yen, while TDK ended 1% lower at 9,210 yen. 

 Among individual issues, East Japan Railway rallied 7.2% to 641,000 yen following a local press report that the government has decided to scrap its plans to sell off a second tranche of shares in the company by the end of March. 


Internet-related stocks did well initially following Monday's
spectacular gains by U.S. internet shares. Yahoo Japan rose to a record,
and daily-limit high, of 16 million yen, but ended the session down 1.4%
at 13.8 million yen. Softbank rose 2.7% to 8,420 yen after rallying to a
new record of 9,100 yen earlier in the day.
  ---
  Morgan Stanley Indexes
                                               % FROM
                 Jan. 11       Jan. 8        12/31/98
U.S. ............ 1230.0       1241.5        +    2.8
Britain ......... 1798.6       1816.3        +    3.2
Canada ..........  790.3        797.3        +    5.9
Japan ...........  674.7        676.2        -    3.0
France .......... 1328.2       1342.2        +    6.1
Germany .........  697.1        712.8        +    5.7
Hong Kong ....... 6271.1       6292.8        +    5.5
Switzerland .....  930.7        948.5        +    4.4
Australia .......  578.6        579.8        +    1.2
World Index ..... 1180.4       1190.8        +    2.6
EAFE MSCI-p ..... 1437.2       1449.1        +    2.3
As calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International Perspective,
Geneva. Each index, calculated in local currencies, is based on the
close of 1969 equaling 100.


Document j000000020010828dv1d0025q




 Business; Financial Desk 
 NATION / WORLD: CONSUMER PRODUCTS Campbell Soup Issues  Profit Warning 

Reuters
179 words
12 January 1999
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-3
English
 Copyright 1999 / The Times Mirror Company 

 Campbell Soup Co., the world's leading soup maker, warned that profit for its current fiscal year will be well below Wall Street forecasts because of sluggish sales of its main product. Executives said lower-than-expected consumption of condensed soup in the first and second quarters will derail Campbell's ambitious plan to boost domestic sales this year with a string of new products and heavy advertising. Campbell cited a reduction of 18 cents to 23 cents a share in earnings in its current fiscal year, which ends July 31. Analysts, who had expected earnings of $2.13 a share, noted that a 23-cent drop would push profit down to last year's level of $1.90 a share. Shares of Camden, N.J.-based Campbell tumbled $6.78 to close at $45.38 on the New York Stock Exchange, where it was one of the biggest losers of the session, after hitting a 52-week low of $44.94 earlier in the day. 

Document latm000020010828dv1c002ox




 Lower-Priced Personal Computers Drove Strong Sales For Holiday Month 

 By Gary McWilliams, Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 
763 words
8 January 1999
05:11
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Strong holiday sales of low-priced PCs proved to be a mixed bag for electronics retailers: Unit sales for December jumped 41%, outstripping earlier expectations, but a 20% drop in average prices crimped results for some. 

 PC Data Inc., the Reston, Va., company that tabulated the sales numbers, estimates U.S. retailers racked up about $1 billion in PC sales for the final month of 1998, a crucial period that can make or break a retailer's results. Not surprisingly, says PC Data Senior Analyst Stephen M. Baker, "The lower the price, the more are sold." 

 Analysts said the mixed results could lead to further consolidation among retailers and in the number of PC brands they carry. Skimpy margins on machines selling for $999 or less leave little room for forecasting errors. "I suspect we'll see retailers aligning themselves with just one vendor, or moving to holding less inventory," said retail analyst Ursula H. Moran of Sanford C. Bernstein. 

 Still, the retail results portend strong fourth-quarter sales for some PC makers, such as Compaq Computer Corp., International Business Machines Corp., and Packard Bell NEC Inc., all of which cranked up production of $599 to $799 home-PC models. PaineWebber Inc. analyst Don Young said Compaq, which blanketed stores with three models under $1,000, "should have a heck of a quarter." 

 It also augurs well for direct sellers Dell Computer Corp. and Gateway, which have maintained average selling prices of about $2,000 by focusing on repeat buyers. "The high-end has disappeared from retail, but it hasn't totally gone away. It has gone to Dell and Gateway," says Ms. Moran. 

 For retailers, the increased unit sales don't mean a boom year for the bottom line. Average prices fell to $1,015, down 22% from year-earlier levels and reflecting the spread of home PCs beyond affluent families. Research MarketMaps LLC, New Canaan, Conn., estimates 49.5% of U.S. households own a PC, up from 43% at the end of 1997. "People buying PCs now are not willing to spend as much as the early adopters," said Vadim Zlotnikov, PC analyst at Sanford C. Berstein & Co. But, he said, newer buyers' interest in purchasing a PC to get to the Internet bodes well for continued demand. 

 PC demand drove sales at stores open at least a year to double-digit gains at electronics giants Circuit City Stores Inc. and Best Buy Co. Best Buy, which saw a $399 model sell out almost immediately after its introduction, "had extremely good sales on low-priced PCs," says a spokeswoman. PCs were the best-performing product at Circuit City, fueling an 11% hike in same-store sales. Circuit City, which reported results yesterday, said total sales rose 18% to $1.57 billion. 

 Even as cheap PCs drove demand, the falling price tags squeezed sales at CompUSA Inc. and Tandy Corp., which had hoped for stronger sales of higher-priced models. CompUSA, Dallas, said same-store sales tumbled a larger-than-expected 4.7% in December from a year earlier, and it issued a profit warning. "Consumers got a great buy," says Chief Executive Jim Halpin, who says the retailer was forced to discount during the month. 

 Tandy, Fort Worth, Texas, saw November same-store sales flattened compared with the year-earlier period, and it stayed out of the low-priced fray. It said same-store sales for December rise a tepid 5%. Selling through its Radio Shack chain, Tandy's lowest-priced model was a $999 PC without a monitor or printer. Total December sales rose 6% to $587.2 million, helped mainly by strong sales of wireless telephones. 

 By contrast, Dell Vice President Paul Bell says buyers were loading up on such extras as digital cameras and scanners to take photos and send digital images over the Internet. Dell said this year's best sellers had twice the memory and about twice as much storage as last year's. 

 Likewise, Bart R. Brown, vice president of marketing for Gateway's U.S. consumer business, said the company hasn't "experienced a terribly dramatic slip in average unit price." 

 New buyers also tend to spur ownership among their peers, say analysts. "If I have a PC, my friends may purchase one to talk to me," says Bill Ablondi, researcher at MarketMaps. "There's a snowball effect building up here." 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020329dv1801o80




 Barnes & Noble Says 4th-Quarter, Fiscal 1999 Results Will Meet Call 

338 words
8 January 1999
02:18
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Following a profit warning from competitor Borders Group Inc., Barnes & Noble Inc. said late Thursday it expects to meet earnings estimates for the fourth quarter and fiscal 1999. 

 Analysts who follow Barnes & Noble for First Call had mean estimates for fourth-quarter net of 98 cents a share and full-year net of 80 cents a share. 

 The books and music retailer said December same-store sales rose 5.7% at its superstores but fell 1.4% at its B. Dalton chain. Company-wide total sales rose 8.6% to $555 million for the five weeks ended Jan. 2. 

 The barnesandnoble.com Web site's sales for the seven weeks ended Jan. 2 were $17.8 million, more than 3.8 times the 1997 holiday season's sales. 

 For the 48 weeks ended Jan. 2, Barnes & Noble's total sales rose 8.1% to $2.77 billion from $2.57 billion. Same-superstore sales rose 5.1%. Superstore total sales rose 12% to $2.32 billion. Same-store sales at the B. Dalton chain fell 1.5% for the year to date. 

 Barnes & Noble reported operating income of $69.8 million, or 98 cents a diluted share, on revenue of $968.5 million in the fourth quarter ended Jan. 31, 1998. The company reported operating income of $64.7 million, or 93 cents a diluted share, on revenue of $2.8 billion in fiscal 1998. 

 Shares of competitor Borders Group plunged 20% Thursday after the company warned its fiscal 1998 results will miss analysts' estimates. Borders put earnings for the year ending Jan. 25 at between $1.14 and $1.18 a share, below analysts' mean estimate of $1.22 a share. Its shares (BGP) closed down $5.063 to $20. Shares of Barnes & Noble (BKS) ended down $1.063, or 2.5%, at $42.313. 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020329dv1801o6o




 Small Stocks: Small Caps Widen Losses As Nasdaq Veers Lower 

Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition Roundup
826 words
7 January 1999
19:20
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   A



NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Small-capitalization stocks stretched losses
Thursday as the Nasdaq Stock Market let go of its midday recovery and
turned sharply lower.


 The Russell 2000 Index, which tracks the direction of small stocks traded on both the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq Stock Market, fell 2 to 425.80 in midafternoon trading. 

 The Nasdaq Composite Index, which measures the performance of large and small issues traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market, lost 20.50 to 2300.40. The Dow Jones Industrial Average extended its day-long decline, falling 115 to 9430. Declining Nasdaq issues outnumbered advancers, 2,212 to 1,598 in heavy total volume of about 821 million shares. 

 In a zigzagging session, technology measures crossed back into negative territory as the Nasdaq Computer Index fell 6.20 to 1215.90, while the Philadelphia Stock Exchange Semiconductor Index lost 1.60 to 387.80. 

 All other Nasdaq industry indexes fell, with insurance and banking shares suffering the worst losses. Negative financial news caused some of the most acute declines among small-capitalization stocks, with market capitalizations at $1 billion or less. INSET Begin style = box-left SEC Clears Rule Affecting O TC Bulletin Board Stocks INSET End SmarTalk TeleServices lost half its value, plunging 1 45/64 to 1 35/64 after the company said it had discovered "accounting issues' that could widen its third quarter loss of 82 cents a share by 21 cents. Columbus, Ohio-based SmarTalk provides prepaid telephone services. 

 SeaMed dove 4 to 7 1/2 after warning that it expects to report a profit of between 15 cents and 17 cents for its second quarter ended Dec. 31, disappointing Wall Street expectations that the compan y would earn 21 cents a share during the period. Redmond, Wash.-based SeaMed designs and makes electronic instruments for medical and commercial technology companies. 

 Big-Board traded Stage Stores fell 1 7/16 to 7 1/4 after the Dallas retailing concern warned that lower-than-expected same-store holiday sales will cause earnings to be "significantly below" analysts" predictions. The holding company is the parent of Specialty Retailer Inc., which operates 680 stores in 34 states under the Palais Roy al, Stage and Bealls names. 

 World Of Science fell 7/16 to 2 5/8. Although the company reported that holiday same-store sales rose 2% and that it expects record sales for the fourth quarter, it doesn't expect to meet analysts" earnings estimates of $1.22. Rochester, N.Y.-based World of Science sells nature and science products. 

 First Health, Downers Grove, Ill., lost 1 to 14 7/8. Late Wednesday the provider of health-benefits services warned that it had lowered its 1999 earnings projection by about 1 3 cents a share and its revenue projection by about $20 million after the company lost a large prospective client. 

 Videoconferencing technology company PictureTel lost 1/4 to 6 1/2 after warning late Wednesday that it expects to report a fourth-quarter loss from recurring operations. Analysts had been expecting the Andover, Mass., company to earn four cents a share in the fourth quarter. 

 Buyout news boosted Trident International, which surged 7 to 16 1/4. Large-cap Illinois Tool Works said it will launch a cash tender at $16.50 a share for Brookfield, Conn.-based Trident, which makes impulse ink jet technology to industrial original equipment manufacturers. 

 Illinois Tool Works, Glenview, Ill., which makes engineered components and industrial systems eased 1/16 to 61 13/16 on the Big Board. Mothers Work, a mall-based specialty retailer of maternity clothing, soared 1 to 12 1/2 after the Philadelphia company unveiled Maternity Mall, its online maternity clothing store. 

 In a press release Thursday, the company said the online store will also sell baby clothing and baby accessories. Micros-To-Mainframes, Valley Cottage, N.Y., rose 25/32 to 2 25/32 after the company agreed to join PSINet's channel program as a premier Internet integration partner. Micros-To-Mainframes designs and sells a number of micro-computer applications. Internet-access provider PSINet, which is based in Herndon, Va., slipped 5/8 to 23 1/8. 

 Adaptec, Milpitas, Ca., jumped 4 7/8 to 24 7/16 after the networking products ma ker said it expects to report earnings of more than 20 cents a share for its third quarter ended Dec. 31, significantly exceeding Wall Street views of 14 cents a shares. Bear Stearns upgraded its investment opinion on the company's stock to "attractive" from "neutral." 

 Tower Air, Queens, N.Y., rose 11/32 to 2 1/2 after the airline said late Wednesday that it flew 325 million revenue passenger miles in December, up 7.6% from the 302 million miles flown last year. 

 (END) DOW JONES NEWS  01-07-99 

 02:20 PM 

Document dj00000020010826dv17006fx




 Small Caps Charge Higher As Nasdaq Extends Streak 

Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition Roundup
413 words
6 January 1999
16:14
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 A 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Small-capitalization stocks jumped out of the gate Wednesday, following the confident lead of the Nasdaq Stock Market as it continues its record-breaking streak. 

 The Russell 2000 Index, which tracks the direction of small stocks traded on both the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq Stock Market, advanced 4.10 to 426.20 in midmorning trading. The Nasdaq Composite Index, which measures the performance of large and small issues traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market, rose 36.60 to 2287.90. The Dow Jones Industrial Average added 82 to 93 93. 

 Advancing Nasdaq issues outnumbered decliners 2,084 to 962 in heavy total volume of about 277 million shares. The Nasdaq Computer Index rose by a substantial 24.10 to 1201.20, while the Philadelphia Stock Exchange Semiconductor Index rose 13.60 to 389.90. 

 Among other Nasdaq industry indexes, financial services led across-the board gains, advancing 30.40 to 2695.30. Among individual small-capitalization stocks, with market capitalizations of $1 billion or less, telecommunications and other high-technology companies posted some of the strongest gains. 

 Informix, a Menlo Park, Calif.-based maker of database software, rose 1 1/2 to 12 3/4. Earlier this week Howard Bain resigned as chief financial officer from large-cap software maker Symantec to become financial chief at Informix. Cupertino, Calif.-based Symantec was unchanged at 20 7/8. 

 Greg Manning Auctions, West Caldwell, N.J., rose 3 13/16 to 12 9/16 after announcing that it expects to report a profit for its second quarter ended Dec. 31, even with the purchase of Teletrade in October. The auction house said it also expects "record" sales for the period, mainly due to Internet auctions. 

 American depositary receipts of Canadian telecommunications Clearnet Communications extended a rally into a second session, rising 3/4 to 10 5/16. The company has been benefiting from general enthusiasm for the wireless sector as well as buyout speculation fueled by the planned merger of Canadian companies BC Telecom and Telus. 

 Bethel, Conn.-based bicycle maker Cannondale fell 1 5/16 to 7 5/16 after warning that it expects to report earnings of 20 cents a share for its second quarter ended Dec. 26, falling short of analysts' estimates of a profit of 35 cents a share. 

 (END) DOW JONES NEWS  01-06-99 

 11:14 AM 

Document dj00000020010826dv1600527




 Dollar Tree Stk Active Aftermkt As Co. Posts 4Q Sales Data 

229 words
6 January 1999
00:05
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Dollar Tree Stores Inc. (DLTR) shares changed hands in late-market trading Tuesday after the company reported fourth-quarter same-stores sales up about 5% from a year ago. 

 The stock moved in line with its regular-session finish of 43 3/16, as the discount and variety store chain posted total sales for the quarter of $340 million, up 24% from $273.5 million a year earlier. 

 Late-market players also dealt Medtronic Inc. (MDT) stock even with its regular-session close of 72 9/16, following a late downgrade by Prudential Securities Inc. The firm lowered its rating on shares of the medical device maker to hold from accumulate. 

 Elsewhere, Hyperion Solutions Corp. (HYSL) shares traded even with their close of 17 3/8 before being halted at about 4:21 p.m. EST. In a profit warning, the software maker said earnings and revenue will fall short of analysts' expectations for both its second- and third-quarters, citing a short-term decline in sales. 

 The company pegged an earnings target of 25 cents to 30 cents a share for the second quarter, below analysts' consensus estimates of 31 cents a share, as compiled by First Call. 

 -Scott Eden; 201-938-5173 

 (END) DOW JONES NEWS  01-05-99 

 07:05 PM 

Document dj00000020010826dv160037c


 The Gazette, Colorado Springs, Colo., Business Briefs Column 

520 words
6 January 1999
KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Gazette, Colorado Springs, Colo
KRTBN
English
Copyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)

 THE DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING and Urban Development on Tuesday announced another increase in Federal Housing Authority loan limits for El Paso and Teller counties. The increases are part of a nationwide round of loan-limit increases to be announced today in Washington, D.C., by HUD Secretary Andrew Cuomo. 

 The El Paso County limit was raised to $160,550. The Teller County limit was increased to $144,744. 

 The increases became effective Friday. They are in addition to increases announced three weeks ago, based on an appeal filed by the Pikes Peak Association of Realtors. 

 The Pikes Peak Association of Realtors had expected a loan-limit increase in October, but HUD had not received updated sale-price data for the two counties. 

 FHA loan limits are based on 95 percent of the median home sale price for a county. 

 FHA loans are intended to encourage home ownership in low to middle-income families by allowing lower down payments and easier loan qualification. 

 SPECTRANETICS GETS OK FOR CARDIAC TESTING: The Food and Drug Administration has granted conditional approval to Colorado Springs-based Spectranetics Corp. to begin testing the company's excimer laser angioplasty technology to treat blocked stents in cardiac patients, the company said Tuesday. 

 Stents are metallic scaffolds implanted in the heart to support the walls of coronary arteries; in-stent restenosis occurs when a lesion or blockage forms within the stent. 

 The study will involve 320 patients and up to 20 medical institutions. 

 Spectranetics has received CE mark approval in Europe to use its excimer laser coronary angioplasty technology to treat obstructed stainless steel coronary stents. 

 Spectranetics develops, manufactures, markets and distributes technology for interventional cardiovascular therapy. The company's CVX-300 excimer laser system is the only such system approved by the FDA for cardiovascular procedures. 

 FRONTIER STEPS UP HIRING, MAINTENANCE WORK: Denver-based Frontier Airlines Inc. said Tuesday it will hire 105 workers, lease additional space and begin performing its own heavy maintenance checks. 

 The airline -- which operates 17 Boeing 737 jets and serves 19 cities -- said it already does lighter maintenance for its fleet and expects to achieve savings, as well as scheduling flexibility, by bringing heavy maintenance in-house. 

 The additional work will be done at Denver International Airport, Frontier said. 

 STORAGE TECHNOLOGY HAS A BUMPY RIDE: Louisville-based Storage Technology Corp. saw its shares fall more than 10 percent before they regained ground after a profit warning Tuesday. 

 For the quarter ended Dec. 25, the company said it expects net earnings of 50 cents to 55 cents a share, below the 73 cents a share predicted by analysts. In the year-earlier quarter, Storage Technology earned a stock-split-adjusted 73 cents a share. 

 The company said in a news release that revenue from new products appears to have been insufficient to offset an expected decline in revenue and margin from older products. 

 Shares of Storage Technology, which had fallen by as much as $3.12 during the day, closed off 93 cents at $33.50 on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Gazette and news services 

Document krtbn00020010828dv16002sn




 Storage Technology shares fall on earnings prewarning 

150 words
6 January 1999
06:04
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 1999.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones News) - Storage Technology Corp., which issued a profit warning Tuesday, saw its shares fall more than 10 percent before they regained ground. 

 For the quarter ended Dec. 25, the company said it expects net earnings of 50 cents to 55 cents a share, below the 73 cents a share predicted by analysts surveyed by First Call Corp. In the year-earlier quarter, Storage Technology earned a stock-split-adjusted 73 cents a share. 

 The Louisville, Colo.-based company said in a news release that revenue from new products appears to have been insufficient to offset an expected decline in revenue and margin from older products. 

 Shares of Storage Technology, which had fallen by as much as $3.12 1/2 during the day, closed off 93 3/4 cents at $33.50 on the New York Stock Exchange. 

Rush

Document aprs000020010830dv1601oi9




 UK'S FTSE 100 turns mixed, Dow seen opening flat. 

786 words
5 January 1999
13:11
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

     LONDON, Jan 5 (Reuters) - The UK's FTSE 100 index turned 

 mixed by midsession Tuesday, retreating from an intial rise amid 

 expectations of a flat start on Wall Street and depressed by 

 Monday's sharp reversal in the Dow. 

     With weakness in BP Amoco and Shell countering strength in 

 the drug and telecom sectors, the blue chip index was up just 

 1.2 points at 5,880.6 by 1216 GMT, with decliners in a slim 51 

 to 46 majority. 

     After a strong pre-Christmas rally, the FTSE 100 remains 

 near the top of its trading range between 5,970 and 5,360 that 

 has held since early November, and remains underpinned by hopes 

 for further interest rate reductions by the Bank of England. 

     "I think the market could press on from here," said one head 

 of equity trading. "Even if there is no rate cut this week, 

 people will be expecting a cut at the next meeting." 

     Yet dealers said the UK market's early strength had come as 

 a surprise bearing in mind the weak finish on Wall Street, where 

 the Dow closed just three points higher having earlier been up 

 as much as 168 points. 

 "The FTSE has been up and down like a yo-yo," said another 

 head trader. "I was surprised it was so good earlier after what 

 happened on Wall Street." 

     Dealers also noted trading volumes were thin and stock prices 

 volatile as many investors sat on the sidelines, weighing up 

 investment prospects for the year ahead. "There is not a lot 

 driving this market. It is all a bit quiet," said one. 

     The telecom sector was the strongest in the FTSE 100, with 

 impressive gains for Vodafone  , Colt Telecom  , 

 Telewest   and index heavyweight British Telecom   -- 

 whose 2.2 percent rise was lifting the FTSE by eight points. 

     Earlier, Vodafone labelled as "speculation" a UK newspaper 

 report that it might bid for U.S. counterpart AirTouch 

 Communications  , which is currently in merger talks with 

 Bell Atlantic  . 

     The telecoms sector continues to be boosted by Monday's 

 strong mobile 'phone sales figures. 

     Pharmaceuticals also helped drive the leading index higher on 

 renewed speculation that Glaxo Wellcome might 

 counterbid to derail a planned merger between Zeneca and 

 Sweden's Astra. Glaxo declined to comment on the 

 reports. 

 Land Securities was another strong performer, up 2.8 

 percent, after Credit Suisse First Boston upgraded the stock to 

 "hold" from "sell". Other leading property stocks advanced, 

 including MEPC and British Land, with CSFB said 

 to have upgraded the sector as a whole. 

 However, those gains were offset by weakness in oil stocks 

 BP Amoco and Shell, where profit-taking set in following 

 Monday's gains. BP Amoco was driven higher on its market debut 

 on Monday but the sector remains under a squeeze from weak oil 

 prices. 

     Meanwhile, dealers continued to mull over the forthcoming 

 interest rate-setting Bank of England Monetary Policy Committee 

 meeting, which starts on Wednesday. 

     The Financial Times' influential Lex column added spice to 

 the debate by calling for a half a percentage point cut in 

 rates, arguing domestic inflation was under control and sterling 

 would still be healthy even if it fell from its current level. 

     However, dealers said market opinion was split over whether 

 the BoE would cut rates this time. 

     Outside the FTSE 100, retailer Arcadia   fell 6.8 

 percent, after ABN AMRO cut its profits forecasts for the 

 retailer by 17 percent for 1999. The brokerage also cut 

 estimates for Marks & Spencer, Next, 

 Storehouse and House of Fraser. 

 The FTSE 250 index of mid-range stocks eased one point to 

 4,850.0 while the All-Share index, the broadest UK market 

 measure, firmed 0.2 percent. 

     Engineer LucasVarity was boosted by talk of a U.S. 

 bid while advertising group Aegis gained 4.6 percent 

 after an upgrade to "buy" from HSBC Securities. 

     Electronic components distributor Diploma was among 

 the biggest casualties, down 27 percent after a profit warning. 

     Chart analyst Brian Kiely at Royal Bank of Scotland set key 

 support on the FTSE 100 at 5,809 and said a break below this 

 level could see the market's attention shifting to lower 

 supports ranging from 5,743 down as low as 5,575. 

 "This last support is the most important of all, as a break 

 beneath here would really signal that the bears are in the 

 ascendancy," Kiely said in a research note. He indentified 

 resistance points on the index at 5,909.9 and 5,970. 

     ((David Holmes  London Newsroom +44 171 542 4367 fax +44 71 

 542 2120, uk.equities.news@reuters.com)) 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv1507bsw




MONEYLIFE
Illinois stocks rise little in 1998. 

HEATHER LANDY 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
470 words
3 January 1999
Chicago Sun-Times
CHI
English
© 1999 Chicago Sun Times.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.  All rights reserved.  

The best-performing Illinois stocks last year ran the gamut, ranging from inventors such as drugmaker Abbott Laboratories to companies that have reinvented themselves, such as Spyglass Inc. and McDonald's Corp. 

Illinois stocks as a whole fared poorly compared with the broader U.S. markets. The Bloomberg Illinois Index of 205 companies with headquarters or significant operations in the state finished the year up a scant 0.7 percent at 199.87, while the Standard &Poor's 500 index jumped 27 percent and the Dow Jones industrial average rose 16 percent. The Illinois Index has a Dec. 30, 1994, base of 100. 

Among Illinois stocks, Spyglass easily topped the gainers list, more than quadrupling to $22. The Naperville company quit the profitable Web browser business two years ago because of competition from Microsoft Corp. and Netscape Communications Corp. Now it's leading the way in hooking up cell phones, gas pumps and other devices to the Internet. 

Walgreen Co. of Deerfield rose 87 percent to $58.56 1/4. The chain of 2,550 drugstores reported its 24th straight year of record earnings in the fiscal year that ended Aug. 31. 

McDonald's shares jumped 61 percent to $76.81 1/4, as successful promotions helped turn around U.S. sales. Now its franchisees are installing the new "Made for You" cooking system, promising better-tasting food. 

A McDonald's cooking-equipment supplier also had a good year: Aurora-based Specialty Equipment Cos. shares leaped 62 percent to $27.06 1/4. 

Abbott Laboratories rose 50 percent to $49. While one of its biggest drugs, Biaxin, lost sales to competing antibiotics, the company posted brisk sales of ulcer remedy Prevacid, AIDS drug Norvir and hospital equipment such as tests for HIV and diabetes. 

The worst performer was scrap processor Metal Management Inc., which tumbled 79 percent to $3.50. Weak scrap metal prices and doubts about the company's plan to consolidate the industry sapped strength from the shares, which traded as high as $30 last year. 

APAC TeleServices Inc. slid 72 percent to $3.78 1/8. Last week, the Deerfield company issued its sixth profit warning in eight quarters because of a drop in orders from its largest telecommunications customer. Apac operates marketing and customer-service call centers. 

Moline-based Deere &Co. tumbled 44 percent to $32.87 1/2 as weak demand for tractors and combines reduced earnings and forced the No. 1 farm-equipment maker to lay off workers. Farmers have less to spend on machinery because of weak prices for corn and other crops. 

United Airlines' parent, UAL Corp., slipped 35 percent to $59.68 3/4 as the weak Asian economy trimmed overseas demand for air travel.  

CHART; see microfilm. 

Document chi0000020010826dv13000a1




 Business/Financial Desk; Section C 
 Wall Street's Banks Kept To Hierarchy During 1998 

 By JOSEPH KAHN 
1,061 words
1 January 1999
The New York Times
NYTF
Page 1, Column 5
English
(c) 1999 New York Times Company

 The finance industry had a turbulent year, with sharp swings in stock and bond markets and the spreading global financial crisis threatening America's long bull market. But in the end, major United States investment banks did more business and earned more money than ever, and the hierarchy of Wall Street banks remained as solid as the limestone portico of the New York Stock Exchange. 

 A robust first six months of the year and a racing finish compensated for the near shutdown of financial markets in the July-September quarter, according to statistics released yesterday by the Securities Data Company. Investment banks underwrote $1.82 trillion in new stocks and bonds, an increase of about 40 percent over 1997. 

 The underwriting docket was heavily skewed toward bonds this year, which rose 44 percent as companies and Government agencies took advantage of record-low interest rates. United States stock sales slumped almost 10 percent, with the market drying up in the second half of the year. 

 The ardor among companies worldwide to acquire one another grew to levels never seen before. Investment banks advised companies on mergers and acquisition deals valued at $2.5 trillion, up by almost half from 1997. 

 Over all, despite the shock induced by Russia's financial meltdown in August, many Wall Street firms are on course to earn as much or more than they did last year, when most firms set records. Bankers say they are now optimistic that the late summer scare -- and the layoffs that followed -- were more an aberration than a foreshadowing of tough times. But the optimism is subdued. 

 ''We dodged a bullet,'' said Jeffrey Weiss, a managing director and the global head of fixed-income syndication at Lehman Brothers. ''But there are still some unresolved issues in the world -- Brazil, Asia and Russia. Everyone is starting off a bit more cautious than we were last year.'' 

 The year's turmoil did not rock the rankings of top investment banks. Merrill Lynch & Company, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Company, Goldman, Sachs & Company, the Salomon Smith Barney unit of Citigroupand Lehman Brothers earned the most fees and underwrote the most stocks and bonds, as they did in the previous year. But Merrill, Morgan and Goldman dominated the most lucrative investment banking businesses, including initial public offerings of stock and advising on mergers. 

 One-half of all first-time stock offerings by American companies last year were brought to market by Morgan, Merrill or Goldman. Even more impressive, those three investment banks advised one side or the other in 9 of every 10 mergers and acquisitions worldwide. 

 ''The top three are continuing to pull away and gain market share,'' said Raphael Soifer, a brokerage industry analyst for Brown Brothers Harriman. ''In tougher times, clients tend to gravitate to the bigger firms. That makes it tougher for their competitors to break into the super-bulge- bracket category.'' 

 Still, there were some warning signs even for the biggest firms. Investment banks continue to see their overall profit margins shrink. The fees they disclosed totaled $8.8 billion for the year, but the pace of increase, at 2.5 percent, slipped well behind the growth in underwriting. That reflects the running battle among banks to be part of big underwriting deals, with competition for market share sometimes eating into profits. 

 Indeed, the quarterly rankings of investment banks, known in the industry as the league tables, can be misleading. Bankers acknowledge privately that they lose money underwriting half to two-thirds of the high-grade bond issues they work on. They justify these loss leaders as good advertising and as a way to please big clients. Similarly, many of the top merger advisory deals require relatively little work and generate small fees, but can propel advisers high up the league tables. 

 Merrill Lynch retained its title as the high-volume underwriter of stocks and bonds, increasing its total market share to almost 17 percent from 16 percent the year before, with $356 billion in sales. Salomon Smith Barney was second, with $249 billion, including WorldCom Inc.'s $6 billion bond sale, the world's largest. 

 Merrill held its top spot despite falling into the red in the third quarter, largely because it suffered losses in emerging markets and n trading bonds. As a result, Merrill laid off nearly 5 percent of its work force. 

 ''This year provided a test of sorts. But I think that even in the more difficult environment, our strengths showed through,'' Jeff Chandler, head of global debt syndication, said. 

 In mergers, Goldman dominated the advisory business worldwide -- and substantially increased its market share. Goldman advised on $960 billion in deals, or about 38 percent of all those announced. Merrill beat out Morgan Stanley, last year's No. 2, for the second spot. Merrill advised companies involved in 26 percent of all announced deals. Morgan Stanley had a role in just under 26 percent. 

 The market for initial public offerings cooled drastically this year, a direct result of global financial turmoil. The number of new companies brought to market in the United States fell to 372 from 630, and the value of those deals declined by about 15 percent from the previous year's levels. 

 The tougher market -- which hit technology and health care companies especially hard -- dislodged Goldman from its pedestal as the largest underwriter of new issues. Morgan Stanley took top billing, with a 21 percent market share. Morgan underwrote Conoco Inc.'s $4.4 billion public offering. Merrill was close behind and Goldman was third. 

 Other major firms solidified their leads in niche markets. Lehman, for example, has a commanding market share in mortgage-  and asset-backed securities. It increased its slice of that market to 15 percent this year from 12.7 percent last year. 

 Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Inc. did likewise in the market for high-yield bonds, also known as junk bonds, which are considered the most lucrative part of the fixed-income business. The firm increased its share of that market to nearly 15 percent from 12 percent a year ago. 

 Table: ''Leaders in the Quarter'' lists managing underwriters of corporate securities, ranked by dollar amount raised through new issues in the United States forth quarter of 1998. (pg. C2) 

Document nytf000020010828dv11000dn

Search Summary

 Text((“profit*” same “warning*”) or ("disappoint*" same "result*") or ("decreas*" same "profit*") or ("compan*" same "downturn*") or ("unexpect*" same "loss*"))   Date01/01/1999 to 01/31/1999   SourceAll Sources   AuthorAll Authors   CompanyAll Companies   Subject Not Corporate/Industrial News   IndustryAll Industries   RegionUnited States   LanguageEnglish   Results Found25   Timestamp28 March 2018 14:26  
 Page 75 of 75     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

