 
•	  SBC'S HARD SELL ENOUGH TO MAKE A BABY CRY 
•	  IN THE MONEY 
•	  Texas man charged with posting phony Lucent release 
•	  Chicago Tribune David Greising Column 
•	 Union will ask county judge to review officer's leave of absence
•	 DON'T PENALIZE THE STUDENTS IN FRANCIS HOWELL  
•	  Nightly Business Report 
•	  mmWire News Briefs - HIP Interactive/SJS Group, Infogrames, UBI Soft, Electronic Arts, PC Data, id Software, GameWorks, pogo.com/About.com...
•	 Raytheon chief gets a raise as stock falls
•	  Technology Journal: Bizbytes   
•	  Business Briefs 
•	  Business briefs 
•	  TELEPHONY 
•	  U. Southern California: Investors forsake solidity for high potential 
•	  Nightly Business Report 
•	 Bogus Press Release Sparked False Rumors Of Lucent  Profit Warning
•	  N.Y. Stocks: Investors Cautious Ahead Of Fed Meeting 
•	  SUNDAY SAMPLER 
•	  Is the Dow out of the dumps? At one time, the large consumer stocks of the Dow were one-decision investments. But, despite a comeback this...
•	  Tough call for the Fed. 
•	  Who needs profit at a time like this? 
•	  Banc of America Capital Management releases "U.S. Economic Projections" report for the week ending March 24, 2000 
•	  `OLD ECONOMY' DOW STOCKS SHOW LOTS OF LIFE 
•	  BUSINESS IN BRIEF 
•	  Chicago Tribune Market Report Column 
•	  Hitachi To Speed Up Mainframe Upgrades, Stop Marketing Current Models 
•	  St. Petersburg, Fla.-Based Photocopier Distributor Reports Lower Profits 
•	 PROGRESSIVE ISSUES NEW PROFIT ALERT 
•	 Fuller stock plunges on  profit warning  Shares fall 18 percent on news of flat earnings
•	  The Wall Street bogey. 
•	  Miraculous Trifecta: U.S. Buys Back Debt, Mexico Gets an Investment Grade, and Straight Talk From Mr. G 
•	  PROCTER & GAMBLE NEWS HURTS CHICAGO-AREA FOOD COMPANIES 
•	  WORRIES OVER MARKET CAN BE SHORTSIGHTED 
•	 PROCTER & GAMBLE PROFIT PROBLEMS HAVE FAMILIAR RING
•	  MARKET CATCHES BREATH AFTER WHIRL NASDAQ TARRIES AT NEW HIGH WHILE THE DOW, OTHER INDEXES FALL BACK 
•	  MARKET SAG PUTS A HARSHER LIGHT ON FUNDS' FEES 
•	  P&G bloodbath all about lack of leverage 
•	  'Single-minded focus' on high-tech stocks drives up TSE 300 Nasdaq hits yet another record high one day after breaking through 5,000 
•	  Dow slips, but Nasdaq hits high: Techs, resources lift TSE 
•	  The cold and old, the hot and new 
•	  Markets Close Out Hectic Week 
•	 STOCKS SLIP ON DIAL  PROFIT WARNING
•	  NYSE Activity Summary 
•	  IN THE MONEY 
•	  Tech stocks unlikely to remain immune to interest-rate shock: Other stocks will recover 
•	  Stock Market Analysis 
•	  NYSE Opening Bell 
•	  NYSE Update 
•	  NYSE Update 
•	  NYSE Update 
•	 BUSINESS 
•	  P&G's Pulp Exposure Underlines Lack Of Consumer Hedging 
•	  Dow Gains 61 Points; Nasdaq Up 49 
•	  Alan Greenspan treading a dicey line. 
•	  Investors still uneasy, but Fed soothes market 
•	  Sighs of relief, signs of rally 
•	 STOCKS RISE ON ECONOMIC NEWS PARTIAL RECOVERY IN HECTIC TRADING 
•	  Around the World's Markets - New York. 
•	  Old Economy Procter & Gamble has been unfairly punished, Eric Reguly says 
•	  OVERSEAS MARKETS 
•	  Modest rebound for stocks  -  Investor fear lingering over economy's strength 
•	  FED'S READ OF MARKET CALMS HOST OF WALL ST. ANXIETIES 
•	  Stock Markets See Modest Rebound, Economic Uncertainty Lingers 
•	  Wall Street recovers some losses following Tuesday's selloff 
•	  All Tech All the Time Tells Only One Side of the Story  
•	 STOCKS RISE AFTER FED'S REASSURANCE
•	  Featured Articles From S&P Personal Wealth 
•	 FED REPORT GIVES BOOST TO MARKET 
•	 STOCKS RECOVER SOME LOSSES, BUT INVESTORS STILL ON EDGE A REASSURING REPORT ON INFLATION FROM THE FEDERAL RESERVE SOLIDIFIES PART OF THE...
•	 BUSINESS UPDATE
•	  Blue-Chip Stocks Rise On Fed Economic Data --- Survey Shows Little Evidence of Inflation --- Industrial Average Recovers Some Losses After...
•	 FED'S BEIGE BOOK' REPORT CALMS INTEREST-RATE FEARS 
•	  Your Money 
•	  U.S. Equities Stage Recovery On Fed Data   
•	  Business and Finance 
•	 US warnings and Net sell-off hit blue chips - Stock Market.
•	  IN THE MONEY 
•	  Around the World's Markets - New York. 
•	 Big Dow drop shakes foreign stock markets 
•	  Dow sinks on profit, rate fears 
•	 Nortel sinks TSE as P&G  warning  spooks investors Blue-chip firm's  profit  caution unnerves market already worried about interest rates
•	 PROFIT WARNING  TRIGGERS DOW'S 374-POINT FALL NASDAQ PLUNGES AFTER TOUCHING 5,000
•	  New York blue chips continue sell-off: Toronto follows Dow and S&P down late in the day 
•	  International Stocks 
•	  DOWNY IT GOES! P&G PROFIT MISS SPOOKS MARKET 
•	  Nightly Business Report 
•	  Dow Thrown for 374-Point Loss on Fears about Company Profits 
•	  U.S. stocks rebound, bonds weaker as oil prices rise. 
•	  FOCUS - Shares stay lower, await Wall Street lead. 
•	  Dealers wipe the floor with Procter & Gamble shares 
•	  Featured Articles from S&P Personal Wealth 
•	 P &G SINKS AFTER  PROFIT WARNING  SURPRISED INVESTORS SLICE $38 BILLION FROM STOCK VALUE
•	  Stocks rise after Fed's beige book shows few problems 
•	  Stocks rise after Fed's beige book shows few problems 
•	  Stocks rise after Fed's beige book shows few problems 
•	  Stocks end higher, Dow gains 60.50 points 
•	  Wall Street Closing 
•	  Wall Street appears to stabilize after big drop 
•	  Wall Street appears to stabilize after big drop 
•	  Wall Street opens mixed 



 Business 
 SBC'S HARD SELL ENOUGH TO MAKE A BABY CRY 

 David Greising 
616 words
31 March 2000
Chicago Tribune
TRIB
Chicago Sports Final ; N
1
English
 (Copyright 2000 by the Chicago Tribune) 

 On Feb. 22, an Ameritech employee found an abandoned baby boy wrapped in a brown woolen blanket on top of bushes outside the company's offices in Chicago Heights. 

 Ameritech turned the baby over to police, apparently without signing it up for caller ID, call waiting or even a second phone line in his crib. 

 That's what got Fib Bullenschneider so upset. 

 "There they had a prospect in their hands--literally in their hands!--and couldn't make a sale," Bullenschneider fumed Thursday over a lunchtime martini at the 401 Club. "No wonder Ameritech's in such bad shape." 

 Leave it to Bullenschneider. As a partner at AntiLogic Consulting, the firm people call when conventional wisdom doesn't work, he sees profit where others see only peril. 

 Last time I saw him, Bullenschneider was telling day-trading firms that it was good publicity when a berserk trader shot up two trading centers in Atlanta. 

 Now he has been pitching his services to Ameritech. Ever since SBC Communications bought it, Ameritech has gotten bad press for overly aggressive sales tactics and sneaky billing practices--like charging people both for checking and receiving voice-mail messages. 

 About this baby thing, I disagreed with Bullenschneider. An infant isn't a prospect. He can't talk. He has no friends. And this one couldn't find his parents. 

 "Thank your stars you're not in sales," Bullenscheider snorted. He jabbed his stubby hand into his leather satchel and pulled out a memo Ameritech sent to its sales force. 

 "Look, it says right here," Bullenschneider pointed. "`The associate should provide a benefit statement for the customer tailored around Convenience, Value or Security,'" he read. 

 He arched his eyebrow. "Babies need security. That's why they have security blankets. They can't walk or drive, so convenience is key. And value? Geez, they're years away from their first paycheck! They're desperate for a deal." 

 Perhaps. But this was a baby in a bush. This wasn't a sales opportunity. 

 "`Customers have told us that once we satisfy their reason for calling us, they expect us to educate them about their products,'" Bullenschneider read. "This kid practically crawled into the office begging for help." 

 It sounds awfully high-pressure to me. 

 "How could it be? Here's what they're calling their new sales approach: `Recommend Solutions.' Everyone needs solutions, especially solutions that involve fancy and expensive phone service." 

 But he was found in the bushes! The Ameritech employee did the right thing. 

 "Oh, no, no, no," Bullenschneider said, shaking a stubby finger at me. "You're stereotyping the kid. 

 "Read it here, `Please remember, prejudging the customer is an unacceptable reason to avoid making a recommendation, and is unfair to the customer.'" 

 Unfair? The kid didn't need phone service. He needed a bottle and a diaper. 

 "It's thinking like that that's got Ameritech doing so poorly. Only 36 percent of their customers had caller ID. At SBC, they've pushed that figure up to 53 percent," Bullenschneider said. "SBC paid $65 billion for Ameritech. They need to get their money back?" 

 He explained that Ameritech employees now must try to peddle high- profit service packages with nearly every customer contact. He showed me a script for winning back customers, and warning against peddling only one service. 

 "Selling service packages and additional lines . . ." He searched the document. "Here: `Increases our job security.'" 

 You mean to tell me Ameritech employees might get fired if they don't try to sell expensive service packages to babies found in bushes? 

 "No," Bullenschneider said. "But they should be." 

Document trib000020010813dw3v00mnn


 Business 
 IN THE MONEY 

 Bill Tucker, Terry Keenan, Daryn Kagan 
9,725 words
31 March 2000
17:00
CNNfn: In The Money
ITHM
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 TERRY KEENAN, CNN CO-HOST:  Thank goodness it`s Friday.  Tech stocks look to pull themselves off the mat after a three day pummeling by investors. 

 BILL TUCKER, CO-HOST:  B2B, those Bs stand for bruised and battered this week, not just business to business, one of this year`s highest flying sectors brought back down to earth.  But can the stocks take off again? 

 KEENAN:  Smoke and ash pour into the sky.  Thousands take cover. A volcano in Japan finally erupts after days of warning. 

 TUCKER:  The hardest hit S&P stock, Cabletron Systems, down almost 40 percent yesterday alone.  Is this a good buy opportunity? Cabletron is our stock of the day. 

 ANNOUNCER:  From CNN and CNNfn, this is IN THE MONEY with Bill Tucker, Terry Keenan and Daryn Kagan. 

 KEENAN:  Hello, everyone, and welcome to IN THE MONEY. 

 From March madness to kind of mellow, believe it or not, it seems like March really may go out like a lamb on Wall Street after what has been one of the most tumultuous weeks in Wall Street history.  But we`re not at the end of the trading day yet.  We`ll see. 

 TUCKER:  I don`t know about it because we`re not even up to noon time in terms of the market trading.  A whole laundry list of negative influences battering stocks this week. 

 First, we started out with Abby Joseph Cohen cutting her technology weighting earlier in the week and then reshuffling her portfolio to reduce her exposure to equities. 

 KEENAN:  Yeah, we have her to thank for starting this off.  Then Mark Mobius came and he piled on, the famous international investor warning about the valuation of Internet stocks right around the globe. Yesterday, confirmation, of course, that Julian Robertson was calling it quits after decades as a stellar investor.  But he can`t make this market out. 

 TUCKER:  No, no, and if that isn`t enough for you, a person in the size of a Nobel laureate, Franco Modigliani, came out today and he said we are, indeed, on a bubble on Wall Street.  And Terry, he went on to say bubbles always burst. 

 KEENAN:  Well, that combined to make a real wild ride on Wall Street, one of the worst three day sell-offs ever for the Nasdaq. Let`s take a status check of where we stand as we close out the month and the first quarter. 

 This week the Nasdaq has plunged 10 percent.  But take a look at this. For the month, the Nasdaq is down five percent while the Dow has rallied almost 8 1/2 percent.  Meantime, the Dow did move back above 11,000 this morning.  But we`re back below those levels.  Let`s get a closer check on what`s happening at the big board and bring in Greg Clarkin.  Greg? 

 GREG CLARKIN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Terry, so far so good here this morning.  Things fairly quiet.  We are seeing a decent volume. Keep in mind, it is the last day of the quarter, as well, so we may see a lot of activity, a lot of volume pick up a little bit later in the session.  Right now about 317 million shares have traded, the Dow pretty much back where it began about 90 minutes ago.  It`s up right now about two points or so, 10,980. 

 Now, some of the notable movers on the Dow, General Electric, which has had just a tremendous run about midweek or so on some very positive comments out of Prudential Securities.  That stock was up around 163, 164, touching 165 at one point.  Right now it`s giving back better than $2.  It`s trading at 156 and change.  So some folks have piled into that, getting out and locking in some profits. 

 Other than that, we`re seeing some, actually some strong action out of some of the cyclicals.  International Paper and 3M are both posting nice gains this morning.  And then one sector that we`ve been watching move in the last couple of days or so very positively are the major oil companies, the major oil stocks.  Again this morning we are seeing some positive moves from these folks and analysts are saying this is partly attributed to the fact that right now there`s a feeling in the wake of the OPEC agreement that there will be no boom and bust cycle in the oil prices.  They expect oil prices to settle around $23, $25, maybe $26 a barrel.  That`s good news.  There won`t be any kind of dramatic swings. 

 So the first, the profit picture looks pretty good for these companies.  And analysts also say now that a lot of investors are really waking up to the fact that first quarter numbers for the oil group, at least, should be very, very strong. 

 Terry, back to you. 

 KEENAN:  And Greg, I just want to note that the Nasdaq has now turned into negative territory, not a good sign for tech investors.  I also wanted to ask you about Xerox.  We have some news out from that company as well. 

 CLARKIN:  Exactly, Terry.  Second time in just over two years a major restructuring at Xerox.  This one is going to result in a reduction of about 5.3 percent of their workforce.  Coming out to jobs that`s about 5,200 jobs that will be cut and Xerox has basically, they reorganized their sales force a couple years ago.  They have yet to reap the benefits of that.  Analysts say they have yet to see substantial meaningful benefits from the last reorganization.  And this is a stock this morning that was little moved but is now trading at less than half the value of what it was just about a year ago.  It was up around $64 a share.  At our last check this morning it was trading around $23 or so. So this stock really has been under a lot of pressure as this company copying, the leading copying company in the country continues to try to make over their business, basically. 

 KEENAN:  And TRW is seeing some selling pressure this morning, as well. 

 CLARKIN:  Exactly.  TRW shares very, very active this morning, Terry, and this, of course, is the auto parts operation.  They issued a profitwarning.  They said that profits will come in at probably somewhere around $1.20 a share.  The Street was expecting $1.25 a share.  Now, TRW says there is a chance that they may be up around the expectations, but for the most part analysts are expecting them to be a few cents shy of that and they attribute this to non-operational issues.  Now, they would not elaborate on what non-operational exactly is but this morning we are seeing a lot of pressure in that stock. 

 KEENAN:  OK, thank you very much, Greg. 

 CLARKIN:  Sure. 

 KEENAN:  Greg Clarkin. 

 TUCKER:  Well, let`s take a quick check on the bond market, see how things are faring there.  We`ve got a little bit of buying going on in the bond market and that is helping lower interest rates there, the 30 year bond showing a yield of 585, the 10 year note showing a yield of 603. 

 Well, Terry mentioned that the techs aren`t doing too well on the big board and, indeed, they`re not.  We have IBM down.  We have Hewlett-Packard down.  Guess what that leads us to over on the Nasdaq? John Metaxas is there keeping score. 

 John, got a little pressure suddenly appearing on the Nasdaq. But we do have Net2Phone doing quite well this morning. 

 JOHN METAXAS, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  That`s right.  Some negative signals today.  We tried to rally early on and there are some cross currents here.  As you can see, the market was up more than 100, failed, came back and now is hitting new session lows and we`re heading lower.  Some portfolio managers were buying the technology stocks because it`s the last day of the quarter to show the winners in their portfolio.  But evidently, that buying pressure not enough.  And we`re now testing the lows that were pretty significant yesterday and some of the analysts are saying look for the market to test those lows today and over the next few days next week. 

 But I do want to talk to you about Net2Fone.  Now, this is a very interesting story.  I covered the parent company of this company, IDT, seven years ago when it was a startup in the South Bronx with about 12 people working in a kind of a rundown office building there in the South Bronx that they had converted. 

 Well, they`ve hit the jackpot today because AT&T is going to invest $1.4 billion in their Internet telephone services to boost AT&T`s presence on the Internet and the investment includes AT&T`s cable TV programming unit Liberty Media and British Telecom as well. As you can see, the stock is surging 5 1/4 at 60 5/8 and this just an example of the great wealth that has been created by the communications revolution over the last few years, Bill. 

 TUCKER:  All right, John.  The Internet`s under pressure as well, eBay down really sharply.  But we`ve got a special set of circumstances there.  Tell us about that. 

 METAXAS:  That`s right.  There is a government is looking into, the "Wall Street Journal" is reporting that the Justice Department is looking into eBay`s Butterfields unit over a possible price fixing scheme at Sotheby`s and Christy`s International.  And Butterfields is the fourth largest fine arts auctioneer.  It was acquired by eBay last year and the stock is taking a real hit, down 25 1/4, this negative news coming at a time when there`s pressure on technology and Internet stocks in general.  But we`re seeing that 12 percent decline today. 

 TUCKER:  Yeah, Internet stocks in general.  Let`s get really specific. Dr. Koop is on the wall behind you. 

 METAXAS:  All right, let me move out of the way. 

 TUCKER:  Down sharply and, you know, this is the second time in a week that an Internet company has had this kind of problem, John. 

 METAXAS:  Well, look at that, losing almost half its value.  This is now trading below $5, which means you can`t margin it.  And this is kind of dangerous territory for this company.  In fact, independent auditors have questioned the firm`s ability to continue as a going concern and the report cited historical negative cash flow.  That basically means they`re not making any money and we know that`s not a good sign for the Internet companies. 

 And this is what that Barron`s article a couple of weeks back was starting to say, that many of these Internet companies are now going to have to start to pay the price of not having profits and it looks as if Dr. Koop might be in that boat right now. 

 TUCKER:  John, and I remember when not having profits was a good thing on Wall Street, at least for the Internets. 

 METAXAS:  Yeah.  Things have changed. 

 TUCKER:  Thanks, John.  That they have. 

 KEENAN:  That stock down from 45. 

 TUCKER:  A huge drop. 

 KEENAN:  Incredible.  Now it`s at three.  OK, our next guest says the selling pressure that we`ve seen in the techs all week is long overdue and it doesn`t surprise him how well the Dow Industrials are holding up with its basket of old economy names. 

 TUCKER:  Yeah, we`re joined now by Jeff Davis.  He`s the chief investment strategist at State Street Global Advisors.  He joins us from Boston. 

 And good morning and welcome, Jeff. 

 JEFF DAVIS, STATE STREET GLOBAL ADVISORS:  Good morning. 

 TUCKER:  Well, this is not the first time we`ve seen a sell-off in the Nasdaq.  The Nasdaq has corrected a number of times before. Does the fact that we are continuing -- we`re showing weakness today after a big rally concern you at all? 

 DAVIS:  No, it doesn`t concern me.  In fact, I may be in a broad camp that actually is kind of rooting it down in terms of the tech side.  I think a lot of us are worried about the potential, you sited Madigliani`s comments about the bubble that this part of the market is just out of hand and we felt that it also was leading to exuberant spending from a consumer who may own these stocks and think they`re wealthy forever. 

 KEENAN:  Now, Jeff, does that mean that we may have more down side than a typical correction that we`ve seen in the blue chips, because I think the Dow went down 15, 16 percent this year as it corrected.  But, you know, the Nasdaq just hit 3000 back in November so it`s come very far very fast. 

 DAVIS:  Yeah, I think what you`re seeing is probably an area that does have significantly more down side if the psychology continues to go against it.  I mean there`s a real backlash in the media all over the place against the Internet stocks.  The money tends to go to the blue chip side, into the value side.  I think March has really been accented by the fact that money has shifted out of the new economy and into the old economy and strangely enough, I think what you`re seeing in the bond market today may be money actually going into bonds following Abby Joseph Cohen.  And I think that`s actually a good thing. 

 TUCKER:  Jeff, while you`re rooting the tech sector down to bleed it out a little bit as it were, what are you rooting up in this market? 

 DAVIS:  Well, I think there`s a lot of companies out there, you know, people were talking about bubble but, you know, there are areas of the stock market that are nowhere near a bubble.  They`re actually very cheap.  Financial Services at this point, given the fall down in the Nasdaq, might be actually worth looking at because it just may be near its peak.  Financial Services are, there are a lot of areas where it`s actually very cheap.  Some health care if you still like growth, the health care area is looking more attractive.  And even in the consumer durables a lot of companies, even boring food sector stocks that are incredibly cheap, are good buys for the long-term. 

 KEENAN:  In Carl Eichon`s (ph) eye at least. 

 DAVIS:  Yeah. 

 KEENAN:  I want to ask you about what you expect next week because we`re starting a new quarter and typically we see the most money coming into this market in the first quarter.  What do you think`s going to happen come April in terms of flows into mutual funds? 

 DAVIS:  I think you`ll continue to see some flows.  It`s interesting, we`re seeing a lot of activity and interest in shifts into value funds and people are trying to get perspective on what`s a good value fund and what`s a bad value fund because everybody, they were so decimated last year they`re trying to get a feel for how they can diversify portfolios. So you might see some flows more into some stock value funds. 

 And I wouldn`t be surprised to see this continuing volatility in the Nasdaq, buying and selling.  I think the shakeout now in the Internet and growth, the high growth area is for real and will sustain itself. But you have to be very cautious about finding the winners. Still good investing there but you have to be very cautious now about really focusing on the winners and looking out for a lot of the torpedoes that are going to be -- you know, talk about Koop`s stock as well as some other Internet stocks that are going to be casualties. 

 KEENAN:  Yeah, because a lot of these stocks aren`t so easy to get out of, are they? 

 DAVIS:  No, no.  In fact, that`s, you know, the entrance door is wide open.  The exit door is kind of locked and kind of sticky and that could, the liquidity on the down side could really surprise a lot of investors and that`s going to be bad news for those who`ve really bet heavily in this area. 

 TUCKER:  All right, Jeff, thanks very much.  Jeff Davis of State Street Global Advisers. 

 KEENAN:  Coming up next on IN THE MONEY, legal rhetoric heats up and negotiations continue.  Will Elian Gonzalez stay or go?  You`ll have a live report from Miami. 

 TUCKER:  And high tech house hunting -- using the tools of the Web to find your dream home.  We`ll go sightseeing. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 KEENAN:  A wake up call this morning for everyone who uses an ATM machine, more evidence of what you probably already know, the free bank machine is a dying breed.  Ninety-three percent of ATMs charge fees to customers.  That is up from just 33 percent in 1997.  A survey by a New York consumer rights group finds that fees of $1.50 are pretty standard in the state.  That is up from an average of $1.05.  I know all of my bank machines charge $1.50. 

 TUCKER:  I know. It`s really irritating every time you`ve got to take money out.      I want to comment on the Nasdaq, Terry.  We`ve got, it`s getting worse there.  We started out the day with a pretty strong rally. We`re down 66 points now, a lot of it coming down to the business to business sector, which we will get into in a couple of minutes. Ariba, Commerce, Vert all showing double digit losses there.  Internet stocks looking really badly, too. 

 KEENAN:  They`re looking very weak.  And, of course, we`re also seeing that sell-off in eBay and some of the Internet design firms are down, as well. 

 TUCKER:  A legal stand-off over six-year-old Elian Gonzalez continues. For the latest on that and other stories making news today, let`s go on down to Atlanta where Bill Hemmer is sitting in for Daryn. 

 And good morning, Bill. 

 BILL HEMMER, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Bill and Terry, good morning to both of you, as well. 

 The war of words over Elian gets hotter by the day.  At the core of today`s very public debate, who gets custody of the boy if his father travels to the U.S. to wait out the appeals process? 

 Live to Miami, CNN`s Susan Candiotti posted outside the home where Elian has been staying now for more than four months.  Susan, what`s the latest from there? 

 SUSAN CANDIOTTI, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Hello, Bill. 

 Well, very few demonstrators are here.  There`s always been a bit of a contingent of demonstrators, just a few, well, several feet away from the home but very few people are there.  The ones who are here say they want to try to protect the boy from possibly being removed from his home even though U.S. immigration authorities have said that they will not remove the boy until all these talks are through and until there is some agreement signed, unless there is an agreement signed by the family that they will hold off on removing the boy if there is some sort of agreement, that they will not, that they will surrender him while an appeals -- that they will surrender him if all appeals are failed. 

 In the meantime, the Florida relatives of this youngster and their attorneys are taking advantage of some down time today.  They were given another reprieve by U.S. Immigration to hold off on the possible revocation of the boy`s legal status until Tuesday.  The child came out to play for a little while today and then later got a visit from a tutor who`s been schooling him at home. 

 Through a spokesperson, the family is saying that it welcomes a possible visit by the father but on their terms.  They say the conditions would have to be just right.  They say that includes some sort of an assurance that there would be no psychological harm to the boy.  They insist also that any visits should be here and sources close to the family say there is no way, as has been suggested, that the boy would go to live with his father at the Cuban mission in Washington, D.C. while any appeals are ongoing. 

 Susan Candiotti, CNN, reporting live in Miami. 

 HEMMER:  All right, Susan.  Thanks for the update on the latest twists and turns in that story.  There are more, though.  Meanwhile, Elian Gonzalez`s father has sent a letter to leaders in the U.S. Senate protesting efforts to give the boy U.S. residency status.  Juan Miguel Gonzalez wants his son returned to Cuba and he says that he and members of his Cuban family have no intention of becoming citizens here in the United States.  Elian`s father says he will come to the U.S. if he can have custody of his son during that time. 

 More now, the vice president, Al Gore, has made an unexpected break with the White House on the position in this story.  Gore now backs legislation to declare the boy, his father and other members permanent U.S. residents.  What`s more, the likely Democratic presidential candidate says that U.S. immigration laws may not be broad enough on this matter.  He says it`s a custody matter to be decided by state courts.  The administration wants it settled by immigration officials and the federal courts. 

 Investigators say a school bus did not stop at a railroad crossing before it was slammed by a train on the border of the Georgia-Tennessee line.  Three children died in that collision earlier this week.  The driver and four other children were injured. Investigators say the conclusion is based on witness accounts, a review of on board videotape and evidence found at the crash site. 

 Also in a development apparently not related to that school bus crash, federal authorities have found potentially dangerous defects in many areas of the CSX rail system, which includes passenger as well as freight trains.  The "Washington Post" is reporting on a track audit by the Federal Railroad Administration.  It says that in many areas the space between the rails on CSX tracks is spread wide enough to risk train derailment and two recent derailments are, in fact, to blame on that. 

 That`s the news for now here in Atlanta.  Back to New York and more business news with Bill and Terry standing by now. 

 KEENAN:  All right, thanks, Bill. 

 TUCKER:  Thanks, Bill. 

 KEENAN:  See you a bit later in the program. 

 TUCKER:  All right, in today`s E-World segment, we`re going to take a look at using the Internet to buy your home.  You want to know how much your neighbor paid for his house but you don`t want to go over and ask your neighbor.  Well, it used to be that only realtors had access to that information.  Not anymore. 

 There are hundreds of thousands of real estate Web sites literally full of that kind of information.  Nick Karris, a real estate analyst from Gomez Advisors joins us now from Orlando to talk about which sites are the best for empowering homeowners.      And Nick, welcome. 

 NICK KARRIS, REAL ESTATE ANALYST, GOMEZ ADVISORS:  Good morning, Bill, Terry. 

 TUCKER:  Good morning.  Listen, you know, Nick, one weekend I got caught up looking at real estate sites on the Web and literally I got a headache.  There are so many of them out there.  So help us sort this down to a manageable number of Web sites.  Which are going to help us the most? 

 KARRIS:  Absolutely.  Well, to the first time homebuyer it can be very overwhelming.  A good first step is to visit one of the national listing sites which provides multiple listing service data of all the homes that are available for sale right through the Internet to the consumer. Those would include Realtor.com, Homeadvisor and Homeseekers.com. 

 KEENAN:  Now, Nick, there are also Web sites that help you in all aspects of moving or relocating.  Are those separate from the ones you just mentioned? 

 KARRIS:  Those sites include relocation information, specifically, access to movers, local agents, appraisers, attorneys, etc.  They`re very robust in their vendor information. 

 TUCKER:  You know, some Web sites like Homegame.com, which was on that full screen we just saw, Nick, it helped you assess the value of your home.  But I have to confess, I was a little suspect of how reliable that information could be given the fact that they`re not there in your neighborhood.  Is this good information when you`re sitting down to take a look at the real estate market? 

 KARRIS:  It`s an excellent first step in that it accesses actual sales data within a mile radius of your target home and typically these appraisal tools or current market analysis tools, as they`re called, provide a range of value.  A good idea as a next step for consumers is to take that estimate to a local agent to get a very specific refined number. 

 KEENAN:  What about the realtors, Century 21 and the like?  Do they have Web sites, as well, and how good are they? 

 KARRIS:  Absolutely.  The leading national franchises also offer listings via the Internet, although their current calculators and appraisal tools are less robust given they`d like the consumer to have that one-on-one interaction with the local agent. 

 TUCKER:  I mean, one of the drawbacks, I would think, is that on the Web you can`t see the house.  I mean you can see a photo if you`re lucky.  Any plans for the real estate types to get around that? 

 KARRIS:  Absolutely.  A number of the sites now are offering virtual tours which are 360 degree video tours of a house which allows the consumer from the comfort of their own home to inspect multiple properties and avoid the tedious hours of driving a neighborhood with a potentially hard selling agent. 

 TUCKER:  Very interesting.  All right, Nick, thank you very much. Nick Karris of Gomez Advisers taking us through the Web and the real estate. Thanks. 

 KARRIS:  Thank you. 

 KEENAN:  OK, just ahead we`re going to go B2B, the stocks selling off sharply this morning.  We`re going to take a look at whether now`s the time to be picking up some of these names. 

 TUCKER:  And we`ll speak to a man who makes his living picking business to business stocks when IN THE MONEY returns. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 KEENAN:  OK, there you see a shot of the big board at the New York Stock Exchange trying to hold onto 11,000 there with a 20 point gain. But all eyes are on the Nasdaq, where we have bounced off our lows of the session, but still down 40 points after being down 10 percent so far this week. 

 TUCKER:  And, Terry, you know, the number that we showed up there on the big board is the transports.  The transports showing us a nice 1 1/2 percent rally, up better than 39, almost 40 points right now, apparently liking that price fall in oil, the stability and predictability in fuel oil prices. 

 Let`s head back down to the Nasdaq and found out how the B2B stocks, the business to business part of the Internet are doing this morning. There you have been bruised and battered, as we mentioned up at the top of the show, and I guarantee you it`s more of the same today.  John? 

 METAXAS:  Yes, we had a report out by Prudential today downgrading three of the B2B stocks, including Ariba, and as you can see, Ariba is down some 15 percent right now, losing $33 a share at $187.  Basically they`re saying that the companies are going to have trouble in revenue sharing agreements.  What the B2B stocks do is they help other companies make business on the Web and they share in the revenue.  If they`re going to have trouble with those revenue sharing agreements, that`s bad news for many of these companies. 

 Internet Capital Group in this sector, down nearly 10 percent right now, a loss of more than $8.  Free Markets down 7.8 percent, down $10.50.  Neoforma.com, look at that, losing a quarter of its value, down nearly five at 15.  VerticalNet down 12 percent, a loss of more than $19.  Purchasepro.com down $19, 19 percent, a loss of $17. 

 Now Prudential says they still like these companies.  For instance, on Ariba, they`ve got a $250 price target but in this market environment and with that kind of market pull, you can see the results behind me -- Bill. 

 TUCKER:  All right, John, thank you.  We`ve seen a lot of action in the sectors with competitors in auto, health care, aerospace and utility joining hands to pool their resources in the recognition of the business to business space.  But many of the B2B stocks have been taken to the dog house, all down substantially from their 52 week highs. 

 Free Markets Neoforma down more than 60 percent.  Purchase Pro, VerticalNet, another one at 40, Commerce One in the market today, down more than 35 points, Microsoft saying now that it won`t be left out of the sector, beaten up as those stocks may be.  It`s going to get in on the B2B market as well. 

 Well, for more on whether you should be investing in this sector and boy, I think we`d have second thoughts right now, let`s bring in Ed McCabe, the B2B analyst at Merrill. 

 Good morning and welcome, Ed. 

 ED MCCABE, MERRILL LYNCH:  Good morning. 

 TUCKER:  We thought maybe you`d run away because you didn`t want to talk about this group of stocks today.  What`s going on? 

 MCCABE:  Well, I mean essentially these stocks have had a tremendous run.  A great deal of the froth in the market was driven by an imbalance of supply and demand in terms of the number of equities and the number of investors who wanted to own these equities.  So when you see the Nasdaq take a swoon like it has of late, you`d expect the most highly valued stocks to get hit the hardest and I think that`s what we`re seeing to some degree. 

 Added to that, we are seeing moves from some of the old brick and mortar players in the B2B sector kind of, you know, get their piece of the pie and clearly that, you know, could take away from some of the market opportunity for the pure play Internet B2B market makers. 

 KEENAN:  So we have certain stocks, such as VerticalNet, the industry leader here, down from a high of 296 trading down 20 today at 130. Would you be buying the stock today at these levels? 

 MCCABE:  Certainly.  We`d be buying VerticalNet at these levels and that`s not to say that it couldn`t consolidate a bit, but the long-term trend on a stock like that is certainly high.  They focus on the small and mid-sized supplier as an advertiser and as a commerce driver.  So, you know, the industries where you see kind of the brick and mortar players, you know, wielding their power are the bigger players, the G.M.s, the Boeings, the Fords, the DaimlerChryslers where VerticalNet plays in that small and midsized business.  You`re unlikely to see a bunch of small and midsized businesses ban together and really harm VerticalNet.  I think they`re well positioned. 

 TUCKER:  Well, I know you cover Internet Capital Group and Neoforma. Both of those stocks are down more than 40 percent since the beginning of the year.  How do we know that there`s a bottom here? That`s a pretty steep drop.  Do we want to come in now or do we want to wait until these stocks go a little bit lower? 

 MCCABE:  Well, calling the absolute bottom on any Internet stock is not a good way to make your money.  But I do think these stocks are way off their highs.  The prospects are very good and ICG clearly, you know, what`s going on in the industry with a G.M., a Boeing, the big players in health care, you know, there`s going to be some concern as to what a pure play market maker`s role will be.  But at the end of the day when you see an ICG aligning itself with a lot of the brick and mortar players, including a Dow -- I`m sorry, a DuPont with its Capspan joint venture, they`re going to be one of the players that works well with industry and we just have a lot of faith in that company and one of the strongest management teams in the overall Internet space. 

 KEENAN:  OK, thank you, Ed. 

 MCCABE:  Thanks for having me. 

 KEENAN:  OK, Ed McCabe of Merrill Lynch. 

 Still to come on IN THE MONEY, keeping company secrets secret. How do your competitors find out what you have going on?  Some firms are hiring spies and we`re going to talk to one of them. 

 TUCKER:  Also, a long dormant volcano roars back to life in Japan. We`ll show you more of the spectacle. 

 KEENAN:  And the competitor to Cisco has lost almost half of its stock value yesterday alone.  But analysts say it could be a buy. What do you think?  Get ready to vote.  Cabletron is our stock of the day. 

 TUCKER:  And Andy Serwer is here. 

 And, Andy, what have you got going on today? 

 ANDY SERWER, "FORTUNE MAGAZINE":  Bill, the Wall Street pundits say the Nasdaq is in a correction mode, but is it really or are all these stocks just volatile?  We`ll talk about that. 

 Stay tuned. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 METAXAS:  I`m John Metaxas at the Nasdaq MarketSite. 

 CLARKIN:  And I`m Greg Clarkin at the New York Stock Exchange, where blue chips at this point really struggling to maintain some kind of positive momentum.  The Dow right now is up about 14 1/2 points at 10994.  Couple of things to keep in mind on today`s trading.  It is the last day of the quarter.  You can expect to see a lot of activity, a lot of volume.  That`s what we`re seeing right now, 400 million shares have traded. 

 But traders are saying at this point they don`t really know where this is going to shake out, and there`s a lot of folks that are split in terms of the direction of the blue chips and the Dow and the NYSE at the moment.  So what we`re seeing really is kind of a net-net effect where the Dow is back around unchanged.      We are seeing strength in the blue chips in terms of some of the tech stocks.  Intel and Microsoft are really the best performers, and then some of the cyclicals, such as International Paper and 3M, are following up with some decent strength as well. 

 Now for a closer look at the tech sector, let`s go over to John Metaxas at the Nasdaq.  John? 

 METAXAS:  Greg, the traders here are puzzled as well.  Because we are at the end of the quarter, the Nasdaq coming into today was up 13 percent, so some investors are wanting to show, the portfolio managers wanting to show the winners in their portfolios at the end of the quarter, and that`s skewing the transactions today. 

 But we are now down 46 points after having been up 100.  The industrial sector down 2 percent, finance down 2.5 percent.  But biotechnology actually a winner, up almost 2 percent.  And among the blue chips, Microsoft, Cisco, and Intel are up, but Oracle and Sun are down, so kind of a mixed bag right here. 

 Investors don`t think we`ll have a true picture on where the Nasdaq is going until the action next week. 

 That`s it from the Nasdaq, now back to the studio. 

 KEENAN:  OK, on now to our Stock of the Day.  Among the tech high flyers caught in this week`s bloodbath, Cabletron Systems.  It is our Stock of the Day.  Shares of the networking and equipment maker plunged 41 percent yesterday after a Goldman Sachs analyst raised concerns about the company`s plans to split itself into four separate units.  That plunge wiped out $3.5 billion of the stock`s market value. 

 Will Cabletron reestablish its connection with investors?  We take a look in today`s edition of Stock of the Day. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 (voice-over):  If you`re trying to compete with Cisco Systems, don`t expect the ride to be smooth.  Cabletron Systems is in the midst of restructuring its businesses and paring down its product line to concentrate on markets where it`s strongest. 

 The company is one of the great growth stories among Internet infrastructure forms.  Before Thursday`s tumble, the stock had rocketed 500 percent over the last 12 months. 

 But the bears worry the company`s ambitious plans to break into four units will disrupt business and hurt sales, and the company seems to be losing ground to two startups that just went public last year. The bulls still like the Cabletron story.  It has one of the strongest balance sheets in the industry, and the company is now selling more advanced switching equipment, which should make it more competitive. 

 So we put the question to you, our viewers, should we add Cabletron systems to our IN THE MONEY portfolio?      (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 KEENAN:  OK, fractional decline after that selloff yesterday, down 5/16 right now at 29 11/16. 

 TUCKER:  Joining us now for more on Cabletron and the tech sector as a whole is Erik Suppiger, Chase, Hambrecht and Quist -- almost forgot the Chase part of your name, Erik.  He joins us now from San Francisco.  And Erik, you like this stock.  You have a $55 price target on there, which gives a lot of room for upside happiness. 

 But in your report, you note that they could have exceeded expectations.  And my question for you is, are you wishing this stock higher, or is there a real reason to believe in it? 

 ERIK SUPPIGER, CHASE, HAMBRECHT AND QUIST:  We`re pretty bullish on the outlook for Cabletron right now.  The situation is, is, we`ve got a management team that is really taking a long-term focus on the IPO strategy that they have in place.  And they have to take a number of fairly drastic steps in order to really prepare and position those individual entities to really hit the market with a bang once they`re ready to be individual entities. 

 We`re fairly confident, or very confident, that there was a fair- sized backlog at the end of the quarter, and we think that was a core focus for management this quarter, because they see that in order to build the visibility that you really need in order to go public, they need to start building that backlog right now. 

 And the interesting thing is that a number of -- when we take private companies public, this is something that is very standard, this is something that investors expect.  The difference is, is, with Cabletron`s situation, is, it`s under much more scrutiny because it`s already a public company. 

 KEENAN:  Which raises the question, why are they doing this?  Is it just a lot of financial engineering that takes management`s eye off the ball of their operating? 

 SUPPIGER:  Well, Cabletron has been a company that has had a past of struggling against, competing against Cisco and the likes of Cisco. I think that what we`ve seen is with the new management team that`s in place, they feel that they can do a much better job of competing if they can really be focused within individual sectors. 

 That`s why the -- it makes a lot of sense from our perspective for them to break off into individual entities. 

 In addition to that, there`s a large part of -- there`s a number of really compelling elements to the story that were hidden within a larger stagnating company when it was in an agg -- from an aggregate perspective.  So we feel that this is a good way of enhancing shareholder value, and more importantly, it`s a na -- it`s a way for the company to rein -- reinvigorate a lot of the hunger that`s associated with startup companies that we have today. 

 TUCKER:  All right, Erik, thank you.  Erik Suppiger of Chase, Hambrecht and Quist.  Thanks for being here. 

 KEENAN:  All right, now that you`ve heard the arguments for and against Cabletron Systems, head to the bottom of our Web page at cnnfn.com, cast your vote, tell us whether you think we should pick up the stock for our IN THE MONEY portfolio. 

 You told us what you thought about Seagate Technology yesterday, 52 percent of voted to buy, 47.9 said don`t buy.  Now that we`re requiring that two-thirds vote for a purchase, Seagate gets a yellow light.  We`re not going to buy any shares.  And it`s interesting, Seagate shares are down again today, down 1 5/8 to 64.  And this time last week, I know they were a couple points higher.  And it`s interesting that management made this move to supposedly unlock some value, and the market does not like it. 

 TUCKER:  Well, you know, and yesterday, as a lot of viewers will remember, the analysts said there`s no guarantee that this deal is going to go through, which is why recommended buying shares of Seagate and not Veritas at the time. 

 Quick portfolio note, I -- quick -- just quick additions before I came on the show this morning, you know, we have 35 winners in this portfolio, Terry, with gains of about $25,000.  Only 17 losers, and they`re losing about $3,000.  So net gains on the portfolio right now are running roughly at about $22,000.  Not a bad job for the viewers out there. 

 KEENAN:  Especially considering the week we`ve had.  Go to our Web page and take a look at all of our picks, because we have about 50 stocks in there, isn`t that right? 

 TUCKER:  Yes, exactly. 

 KEENAN:  OK.  Well, those high prices at the gas pump are stirring anger on the West Coast. 

 TUCKER:  Yes, just ahead on IN THE MONEY, hundreds of California motorists turn out to support a move to get rid of the state`s high tax on gasoline. 

 KEENAN:  But first, here is a look at how some of our stocks are doing today. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 KEENAN:  You`re looking at a live picture of the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.  Interesting situation, the Dow is higher thanks to two Nasdaq components, Intel and Microsoft.  But the Nasdaq is still lower after three days of brutal losses. 

 Here are some of the hardest hit Dow stocks this week, and you can see the tech names lead the list.  And as you can see what`s going on today, bit of bounceback in some of those tech names, some buying interest coming in for the big names. 

 Here`s the hardest hit S&P 500 led by Cabletron, our Stock of the Day. And here`s how they`re faring today. 

 TUCKER:  It`s time now to check on some other stories making news today.  And for that, we`re going to check in with Bill Hemmer, who`s got some pictures of a really big show in Japan -- Bill. 

 HEMMER:  Yes, really do.  Bill and Terry, thanks. 

 News from overseas tops this news segment.  The experts, they warned it would happen, and now it has.  Japan`s Mount Usu blew its top today, sending molten rock and ash high into the air.  The volcano is on Japan`s northernmost island of Hokkaido.  More than 11,000 people who live near the volcano were evacuated from their homes earlier this week when it showed signs of erupting.  Most of them got out two days ago. 

 No deaths or injuries reported, though, from Japan on that. 

 Back in this country, some California drivers fed up with high gas prices taking their anger to the streets.  Demonstrators are rallying now for a second day at the state capitol in support of a bill that would axe the state`s gas tax, which is now 15 cents a gallon.  That bill is sponsored by Republican state lawmakers. Democrats oppose the measure.  They say it`s a phony solution. 

 There`s also a gas tax repeal measure in the U.S. Senate in Washington.  The 4.3-cent rollback is not expected to pass at this time. 

 Some folks in Italy say that country`s new motor scooter helmet law is causing them all sorts of problems.  Among other things, the helmets help to mess up hairdos and keep them from talking on cell phones.  The law went into effect yesterday.  One opponent says, quote, "If I want to smash my head against a wall, I have a right to do so," end quote. 

 Scooter accidents kill about 700 people every year in Italy. Helmets already were required for motorcyclists traveling there in Italy. 

 Police in Wisconsin who were investigating a canine caper did not have to look very far to find the guilty pooch.  It was one of their own.  A police dog that ran away from his kennel was caught on videotape shoplifting at a grocery store.  The dog, named Nuts, entered the store through some automatic doors there, headed straight to the meat department, picked out a hunk of prime rib.  Police say he`s in custody. No word yet on whether or not the dog is being questioned at this time. 

 All the news you need to know. 

 Back to New York, more news now with Bill and Terry.  Have a great weekend, OK? 

 KEENAN:  Yes, you, too, Bill. 

 TUCKER:  You have a good weekend too, but I`m sitting here... HEMMER:  All right, thank you. 

 TUCKER:  ... thinking, that dog`s a police dog.  I don`t suppose he can claim he didn`t know it was against the law, huh? 

 HEMMER:  I think you`re right there, Bill, you`re onto something. We`ll find out the answers from the dog, though.  See you later. 

 TUCKER:  See you later, Bill, thanks. 

 KEENAN:  Bye-bye. 

 TUCKER:  Well, keeping secrets is big business, especially in this boom period for cybercorporations.  Joining us now from Atlanta where the National Intelligence Conference is underway is John Nolan. He`s a former federal intelligence officer who now works as a consultant.  And John, welcome to IN THE MONEY. 

 JOHN NOLAN, PHOENIX CONSULTING GROUP:  Good morning, Bill, how are you? 

 TUCKER:  Is this a booming business?  Are you seeing a lot more companies want to know what their competitors are doing? 

 NOLAN:  Absolutely.  It depends on whether you want to be competitive or not be competitive.  If you don`t get up in the morning and ask what is it that makes money for me at my competitors` expense, and what is it that allows him to make money at my expense, you`re not asking yourself the right questions when you get out of bed. 

 KEENAN:  John, what do you do?  How do you gather your corporate intelligence, and how does it differ from illegal corporate espionage? 

 NOLAN:  Well, the illegal side is pretty easy to explain.  The illegal people go out and bribe people, hack into databases, hack into computers, break into facilities, and those kinds of things.  We don`t really find it necessary to do that very often. 

 The information that we`re interested in getting, we get from the people who know what it is, and it may range from just a general desire to cooperate with somebody that they`re talking to on the phone about an area of their expertise, or it may be because they`re disgruntled or unhappy, and of course that`s always a watchword, particularly when you talk to somebody in the industry today where the prices are dropping right out of the floor of your stock. 

 You call somebody in a place like that today, you`re going to get all kinds of interesting information about the company. 

 TUCKER:  So the old cliche, loose lips sink ships, actually proves to be true, and there`s what seem to be a lot of loose lips out there. 

 NOLAN:  Yes, and we`ve got lots of people who don`t have posters up telling their people to keep their lips, keep their lips sealed. 

 KEENAN:  You mention, you mentioned hacking.  Are there legal ways to troll the Internet and gather a lot of corporate information? 

 NOLAN:  Oh, absolutely.  Probably one of the best ways for us is, to explain, is that we get a lot of information from a Web site to begin with, which allows us then to identify those people who we want to call and contact that we might not otherwise be able to capture or identify. Used to take us a long time to do those kinds of things. Now we can find people in a couple of hours that might have taken us weeks or months. 

 It depends on whether somebody`s on a Web site, or they`ve posted their resume somewhere, and we just sort through their technical competency and their employment history.  Bang, it`s up there pretty quickly, and we can begin communicating with them and know that they`re somebody.  Just like you develop sources, we develop sources exactly the same way. 

 TUCKER:  A reporter of a different sort.  John, thank you very much. John Nolan of Phoenix Consulting.  Thank you. 

 KEENAN:  And coming up next on IN THE MONEY, "Fortune"`s Andy Serwer is here with the question, Is a correction really correct? 

 SERWER:  Terry, yes, Nasdaq is down, but are stocks just more volatile?  We`ll talk about what all this really means.  Stay tuned. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 TUCKER:  All right, we have a Dow that is up and a Nasdaq that is lower.  Looking at the Nasdaq wall at the Nasdaq MarketSite there, looks like it`s about split evenly between ups and downs.  But a quick look at the composite will tell you, losers rule the day, down 33 1/2 points. 

 KEENAN:  Well, the Nasdaq went into correction mode, as we`ve been telling you about yesterday, it`s done it a bunch of other times this year.  That means it`s down more than 10 percent from its highs. 

 But Andy Serwer thinks that we should throw out this definition of correction.  And it`s become a mainstream charm.  It used to only happen every couple years, now it seems to happen every couple weeks. 

 SERWER:  Well, that`s my point, Terry.  I mean, according to the -- my calculations, this is the fourth correction the Nasdaq has been in this year.  That`s more -- you know, not even four months this year yet.  So, you know, I`m just wondering, what`s the value here of saying that we`re in a correction mode after the stocks are down 10 percent? 

 In fact, the Dow Jones Internet index is down more than 20 percent right now, which means we`re in a bear market in Internet stocks.  I don`t really think it feels like a bear market.  I think it feels like things are really volatile. 

 Yes, B2B stocks are hurting, Bill, as we saw and we talked about. But, you know, why don`t we forget this, throw it away.  It sort of reminds me of what`s going on the NCAA basketball player kind of stuff, where the NCAA keeps finding that college basketball players are violating rules.  Well, maybe the problem is the rules, right? 

 I mean, I think that we should say that we`re not in a correction until we have -- we`re down 10 percent and we have a duration of a couple of weeks, a couple months, something like that. 

 TUCKER:  I want to vote for changing the word to... 

 SERWER:  OK, what`s your word, Bill? 

 TUCKER:  ... because correction -- well, I don`t know, but correction implies... 

 KEENAN:  Yes, it`s a strange word. 

 TUCKER:  ... things were all wrong to begin with. 

 SERWER:  Right. 

 TUCKER:  You know? 

 SERWER:  Well, no, you know what I like to call them, what we call them are buying opportunities, right?  I mean, that`s the old saw.  But I -- you know, you got to be careful about that one, because sometimes -- at some point this thing really will end, but we don`t know when that is. 

 KEENAN:  Well, let me play devil`s advocate.  Maybe one reason people focus on these 10 percent pullbacks, particularly this time around, is there`s so much buying on margin, there`s so much leverage. There are lots of times when you do see a significant pullback of that much.  You start to see margin calls and kind of a piling-on to the sell. 

 SERWER:  Right, right, well, that`s true, and then the momentum people rush in, the momentum people rush out.  So there is something to it.  I just think that, you know, we have to be a little bit careful not to overemphasize the word, I think. 

 TUCKER:  Let`s talk about Net2Phone a little bit.  You`ve been looking at this a little, and what can you tell us? 

 SERWER:  Well, it`s interesting, you know, as we mentioned at the top, AT&T -- an AT&T-led group is buying about 32 percent, a 32 percent stake in         Net2Phoen for about $1.4 billion.  And, of course, Net2Phone allows people to make very, very inexpensive calls over the Internet. You know, here`s a business that threatens the very being of AT&T and the giant telcos, so you might wonder, why are they getting into it? 

 Well, they`re getting into it to hedge their bets.  They`re getting into it to look at this nascent business to see, you know, sort of peek in and look at the books, look at the competitors.  And you see a lot of big companies doing this, Terry, like a Microsoft getting into all kinds of businesses.  They can throw around $100 million here very easily. Time Warner does the kind of thing looking at music online.      So, you know, everyone is so concerned about the new economy threatening their business models.  They have to get into these kinds of things. 

 KEENAN:  OK. 

 SERWER:  And another one that`s interesting we wanted to talk about a little bit here is Hummingbird, right?  This is the company --it`s just a very sort of interesting stock this morning, because it`s canceling its stock split, and yet the stock is up, very unusual, it`s a Canadian software company.  And the reason why this is up a little bit today -- you can see it`s down a bit, but it`s up a little bit today because their sales of their enterprise software seem to really be cooking. 

 So kind of an unusual one north of the border. 

 KEENAN:  OK, thanks, Andy... 

 TUCKER:  Thanks, Andy. 

 KEENAN:  ... have a good weekend. 

 SERWER:  OK, thanks, you guys. 

 KEENAN:  Before we go, want to update you on a story we brought you last week.  It was about Lucent Technologies.  You might remember a day trader allegedly circulated a bogus note over the Web that said that Lucent was going to come out with a earnings warning.  Well, he was arrested yesterday. 

 TUCKER:  Yes, federal authorities accused the 43-year-old man of posting a fake press release last week on a Yahoo! message board saying that Lucent would miss earnings. 

 KEENAN:  And Lucent shares sunk more than 3 percent the day after that false message appeared on the message board.  So be careful what you read on those message boards. 

 TUCKER:  Exactly. 

 KEENAN:  That`s going to do it for us.  Thanks for watching, have a great weekend.  I`m Terry Keenan. 

 TUCKER:  And goodbye for me as well.  I`m Bill Tucker, have a great weekend, everyone. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc.  ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by eMediaMillWorks, Inc.  (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.)  No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document ithm000020010807dw3v0002g




 Business 
 Texas man charged with posting phony Lucent release 

 David Glovin 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
312 words
31 March 2000
The Star-Ledger Newark, NJ
NSL
FINAL
048
English
 (c) 2000. The Star-Ledger. All rights reserved. 

 A Texas investor was charged yesterday with posting a fake profitwarning for Lucent Technologies Inc. on a Yahoo Internet message board last week, driving Lucent stock down 3.6 percent and cutting the company's market value by more than $7 billion. 

 Federal prosecutors said Fred Moldofsky, 43, traded approximately 6,000 shares of Lucent stock on March 22, the day he allegedly posted the phony press release. The Houston man was arrested yesterday. Authorities didn't disclose the results of Moldofsky's trading activity that day. 

 ''Law enforcement officers were able to quickly identify Moldofsky, despite his efforts to remain anonymous," U.S. Attorney Mary Jo White said in a statement. "By collecting evidence from Yahoo, America Online, and Moldofsky's Internet service provider, authorities identified Moldofsky and the location" of his computer. 

 Moldofsky, who was charged with securities fraud, faces up to 10 years in prison and a $1 million fine. 

 Lucent shares had fallen as much as 3.6 percent before the company said it hadn't issued a profit warning. They rose after Lucent's statement. 

 The posting was the latest piece of phony business news from an anonymous user on Yahoo, the biggest Web-navigation company and home to many of the Internet's most popular message boards for financial information. Yahoo has 120 million users around the world. 

 The Lucent posting was prepared to look like a PRNewswire press release, using language copied from a real warning Lucent made in January. Yahoo has said that it does not monitor its message boards. 

 The phony warning said Lucent expected earnings of 14 cents to 17 cents a share in the fiscal second quarter, which ends today. Analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial expect profits of 22 cents a share in the quarter. 

Document nsl0000020010808dw3v00ip4


 Chicago Tribune David Greising Column 

 David Greising 
620 words
31 March 2000
KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Chicago Tribune - Illinois
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 SBC'S HARD SELL ENOUGH TO MAKE A BABY CRY: On Feb. 22, an Ameritech employee found an abandoned baby boy wrapped in a brown woolen blanket on top of bushes outside the company's offices in Chicago Heights. 

 Ameritech turned the baby over to police, apparently without signing it up for caller ID, call waiting or even a second phone line in his crib. 

 That's what got Fib Bullenschneider so upset. 

 "There they had a prospect in their hands--literally in their hands!--and couldn't make a sale," Bullenschneider fumed Thursday over a lunchtime martini at the 401 Club. "No wonder Ameritech's in such bad shape." 

 Leave it to Bullenschneider. As a partner at AntiLogic Consulting, the firm people call when conventional wisdom doesn't work, he sees profit where others see only peril. 

 Last time I saw him, Bullenschneider was telling day-trading firms that it was good publicity when a berserk trader shot up two trading centers in Atlanta. 

 Now he has been pitching his services to Ameritech. Ever since SBC Communications bought it, Ameritech has gotten bad press for overly aggressive sales tactics and sneaky billing practices -- like charging people both for checking and receiving voice-mail messages. 

 About this baby thing, I disagreed with Bullenschneider. An infant isn't a prospect. He can't talk. He has no friends. And this one couldn't find his parents. 

 "Thank your stars you're not in sales," Bullenscheider snorted. He jabbed his stubby hand into his leather satchel and pulled out a memo Ameritech sent to its sales force. 

 "Look, it says right here," Bullenschneider pointed. "`The associate should provide a benefit statement for the customer tailored around Convenience, Value or Security,'" he read. 

 He arched his eyebrow. "Babies need security. That's why they have security blankets. They can't walk or drive, so convenience is key. And value? Geez, they're years away from their first paycheck! They're desperate for a deal." 

 Perhaps. But this was a baby in a bush. This wasn't a sales opportunity. 

 "Customers have told us that once we satisfy their reason for calling us, they expect us to educate them about their products,'" Bullenschneider read. "This kid practically crawled into the office begging for help." 

 It sounds awfully high-pressure to me. 

 "How could it be? Here's what they're calling their new sales approach: `Recommend Solutions.' Everyone needs solutions, especially solutions that involve fancy and expensive phone service." 

 But he was found in the bushes! The Ameritech employee did the right thing. 

 "Oh, no, no, no," Bullenschneider said, shaking a stubby finger at me. "You're stereotyping the kid. 

 "Read it here, `Please remember, prejudging the customer is an unacceptable reason to avoid making a recommendation, and is unfair to the customer.'" 

 Unfair? The kid didn't need phone service. He needed a bottle and a diaper. 

 "It's thinking like that that's got Ameritech doing so poorly. Only 36 percent of their customers had caller ID. At SBC, they've pushed that figure up to 53 percent," Bullenschneider said. "SBC paid $65 billion for Ameritech. They need to get their money back?" 

 He explained that Ameritech employees now must try to peddle high-profit service packages with nearly every customer contact. He showed me a script for winning back customers, and warning against peddling only one service. 

 "Selling service packages and additional lines ..." He searched the document. "Here: `Increases our job security.'" 

 You mean to tell me Ameritech employees might get fired if they don't try to sell expensive service packages to babies found in bushes? 

 "No," Bullenschneider said. "But they should be." 

Document krtbn00020010807dw3v00oqw


LOCAL
Union will ask county judge to review officer's leave of absence

JEFFERSON ROBBINS STAFF WRITER   
393 words
31 March 2000
The State Journal-Register
STJR
13
English
Copyright 2000. The State Journal Register. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

The Springfield police union plans to ask a judge whether the city erred in allowing a former officer to return to the force.

Patrol officer Tony Schluter left the Springfield Police Department in November after four years on duty after unsuccessfully applying for a leave of absence to temporarily work for a St. Louis railroad company.

On Tuesday, the Springfield City Council approved a retroactive leave of absence for Schluter, bringing him back to the force without the need to reapply.

The Springfield Policemen's Benevolent and Protective Association Unit No. 5, which represents most of the city's 261 police officers, opposed the move, saying it violates the city's own ordinance against granting leaves for employees to work at for-profit companies. Union attorney Ron Stone sent a letter Wednesday to the city attorney's office, Tony Schluter and his father, former police Cmdr. Don Schluter, warning that the union will ask a Sangamon County judge to review the case.

"We just thought it was a good idea to put Tony on notice what our intentions were, because he would seem to be at a fork in the road," Stone said. "Nobody's got anything against Tony coming back to the force, except in the manner that they've done it."

Schluter returned to police work this week. Stone said he'll ask a judge to weigh the council's action against its own laws, which allow employees to take leaves only for educational, community service or government-related work.

No court paperwork had been filed Thursday; Stone said that may happen next week.

Schluter is African-American, and his retroactive leave brings the number of black Springfield officers to 10. The city has boosted its efforts at minority recruitment for the police and fire departments, hoping to raise the percentage of minority employees in those areas.

Stone said that while the case is under review, the union will not ask the judge to bar Schluter from working on the police force. To win such an injunction, the union would have to show that Schluter's return causes "irreparable harm."

"Quite frankly, looking at this, I don't see how there's any irreparable harm to the union if Tony Schluter returns," Stone said.

Document STJR000020110106dw3v0017b




Viewpoints Column
EDITORIAL
DON'T PENALIZE THE STUDENTS IN FRANCIS HOWELL  

Guy Louis Selbert  
702 words
29 March 2000
St. Louis Post-Dispatch
SLMO
EDITION: FIVE STAR LIFT
PAGE: B7
English
Copyright 2000, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.  

EDUCATION  

THE recent crisis at the Francis Howell School District must bring to mind the folly of the American habit of treating every public institution as if it were a for-profit business. Here, former superintendent Lee Brittenham and his staff evidently conducted an intense study of egregious mismanagement and applied these skills assiduously to the district's finances. It seems head honchos have been claiming kindergartners' half days as full days on their reports to the state, thus increasing their state aid. Added to this have been some rather flagrant (but probably not unusual) abuses of cell phones, district credit cards, district autos, travel, etc.  

Following an emergency review by state Auditor Claire McCaskill, Brittenham and the other honchos were fired and now the state wants its money back. The amount of the shortfall the district must cope with seems to be about $12 million, but that number appears as volatile as current gasoline prices.  

If this were a for-profit business whose aim was to bring a good return to owners, this punishment and more would be correct.  

However, the business of a school is not fiscal profit, but the education of the young. Though these goals may seem patently dissimilar, they are being dangerously confused here.  

By removing ill-gotten profit from a business and pillorying the managers, the state corrects immediate wrong and sends a warning to others with the same idea. But a public school is different. Though it conducts fiscal business, its goal cannot be measured in dollars and cents. To deal in a fiscally Draconian method with a school turns it directly away from its goal and forces it to run toward failure. Also it seems that those who perpetrated this act are not the ones being held accountable.  

The teachers, employees and, most important, the students of Francis Howell -- people who had nothing to do with this pilfering -- are the ones who are left holding the bag.  

The district is tightening its belt substantially. I'm told that next year more than 100 teachers will be either retired or not offered a contract. Class sizes are going to skyrocket. Pay for the remaining untenured teachers will be either frozen or cut, and benefits may be cut across the board.  

This is likely to cause many to seek jobs elsewhere. Given the nationwide shortage of teachers and the reciprocity that Missouri enjoys with other states in teacher certification, they will have little trouble finding them.  

Francis Howell will attract none of the new teachers graduating this spring and it may be difficult to retain some of the untenured faculty it wishes to keep.  

As an acquaintance who works for the district told me, although the district has circulated idea that "this is a financial and not an educational problem and any decision will not affect the quality of education, " this affair must trickle down to the classroom. "Some of the parents are involved, but the majority of parents won't realize the severity of these cuts until they (the cuts) show up in the classroom."  

It also seems that administration is sending messages to faculty that are either accidentally or intentionally causing panic in the ranks. "People are being scared into leaving," says my friend. Add to all this the peripheral issues, such rumors of falling real estate values in the district, and the threat of this system coming unraveled becomes real.  

One of the essential features of our republic is that we at least give lip service to the idea that we do not hold people responsible for a crime if they did not do it. The students at Francis Howell had no part in this fraud. Yet the state is pursuing a policy that could easily bring educational if not financial ruin to this district.  

The Legislature must, in situations such as these, find a more educationally friendly solution to the problem. Put the culprits in jail or have them pick up trash in orange jumpsuits, but don't penalize the kids. It wasn't their fault.  

COMMENTARY Guy Louis Selbert is a former teacher who lives near Hillsboro.

Document SLMO000020040607dw3t00two


 Business 
 Nightly Business Report 

 Jeff Yastine, Susie Gharib 
4,578 words
29 March 2000
00:30
Nightly Business Report
NBR
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 SUSIE GHARIB, ANCHOR, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT: Abby talks and Wall Street listens: the Dow falls about 90 points, and the NASDAQ plunges 124, after Abby Joseph Cohen tells investors to dump some stock for cash. Our interview with the guru from Goldman Sachs is coming up. Good evening, everyone. I`m Susie Gharib in New York City. 

 JEFF YASTINE, ANCHOR, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT: And I`m Jeff Yastine in Miami. Paul Kangas is off tonight. It appears OPEC is going to boost oil production, but it`s not a unanimous deal. We`ll talk with the chairman of Chevron (CHV) about what it means for his company. Then, where does Boeing (BA) go to buy a million light bulbs? The aircraft maker and three of its competitors are going online. 

 YASTINE: Good evening, everyone. It looks like OPEC will open up the oil taps. After two days of meetings, the cartel has reportedly agreed to a production increase, but it comes without Iran`s OK. That country is refusing, it has on principle, to sign on to the $1.7 million- barrel-per-day hike, but OPEC can act without unanimous approval and those oil increases are slated to begin April 1. Wall Street was expecting a smaller production hike. 

 JORDAN HOROSCHAK, OIL ANALYST, STANDARD & POOR`S: The whisper on the Street was maybe 1.2 million to 1.5 million, so it`s a little bit more supply. However, probably not enough to completely cool off the market. I think we`ll see slightly lower prices, but no dramatic drop-offs. 

 YASTINE: Horoschak says oil prices should fall in the near term, but head higher as the summer driving season approaches. A bit later in the program, we`ll ask Chevron`s Chairman Dave O`Reilly about what this means for consumers. 

 GHARIB: On Wall Street, investors got a wake-up call from Abby Joseph Cohen this morning. The influential and bullish stock strategist from Goldman Sachs told her clients to reduce their stock holdings and increase cash in their portfolios. I talked with Abby Cohen a short while ago, and we`re going to bring you that interview in just a few moments. 

 GHARIB: Well, those comments from Cohen were the main reason behind a downside opening on Wall Street this morning. Tech stocks sold off, pulling the Dow down 27 points, and the NASDAQ by 30. Later in the morning, the buyers came in and the Dow turned positive, gaining 54, and that`s thanks mostly to American Express (AXP) and J.P. Morgan (JPM), benefiting from Abby`s comments favoring financial stocks. During the lunch hour, the weakness in technology stocks weighed down the whole market, and the Dow joined the NASDAQ in negative territory. The Dow fought its way back to the plus side during an afternoon trading, with help coming from Microsoft (MSFT), but investors avoided the rest of the tech sector and that`s one reason that the blue chips traded on each side of the break-even point, and the NASDAQ stayed in the red all day long. In the last hour of trading, the selling intensified, and all the major Indexes slipped into negative territory. By the closing  bell, the Dow tumbled below the 11,000 level, losing about 90 points to 10,936. The NASDAQ ended the day with a triple-digit loss, down 124 points to 4,834. 

 Big board volume today: 954 million shares, up a bit from yesterday. 

 Transports had a good day on word of lower oil prices from OPEC that we just told you about, up more than 13 points. 

 Utilities down 6 1/3. 

 And the Closing Tick, a bearish -391. 

 In the broader markets, the S&P 500, the 100, and the Midcap were all down by more than 1 percent. 

 And the CRB Index was off a fraction. 

 The NYSE. Composite fell 3 3/4. 

 The Value Line Index down 3 1/2. 

 The Russell lost more than 14. 

 And the Wilshire down more than 195 points. 

 In the bond market today, Treasuries gained ground in reaction to a number of items. The latest confidence, the latest reading on consumer confidence slipped to its lowest level in five months. And traders believe that might help cool consumer spending and also inflation fears. Also helping bonds, today`s confirmation of that hike in oil production at OPEC that we told you about. 

 Running down the numbers for you, the 5 and 10-year notes both rose by 8/32. 

 And the 10 year, the 30-year rather, tacked on 2/32. 

 And the Lehman Brothers Treasury Bond Index rose a point. 

 GHARIB: Well, as we reported, Wall Street`s most famous bull, Abby Joseph Cohen, told her clients today to buy less stock and raise more cash. The top strategist at Goldman Sachs decreased her stock allocation to 65 percent, down from 70 percent, and raised cash to 5 percent. Abby Cohen joins us now from her offices at Goldman Sachs in New York. Well, Abby, you sure surprised Wall Street today. Why the change? 

 ABBY JOSEPH COHEN, INVESTMENT POLICY COMMITTEE CHAIR, GOLDMAN SACHS: Susie, it`s really quite simple. As you know, our work is fundamentally driven and we do have a valuation approach. Our belief is that stock prices will continue to rise, but at a less vigorous pace than we`ve enjoyed to this point. We think returns will be good, but not great, and a 65 percent rating, we think, is the appropriate one. But 65 percent is certainly not a small amount. 

 GHARIB: Put it in perspective for us. Historically, what have been your asset allocations in portfolios? 

 JOSEPH COHEN: We were unusually overweighted for the last year or two and the reason was the following. There was so much concern about the condition of the global economy and we had taken the view that the United States, the supertanker economy, would continue to perform quite well, and we felt that that good news for corporate profits was not properly reflected in the stock market. But with the S&P 500 at about 1525 this morning, we felt that the market was getting close to a fair value state. At the end of this year, we think fair value will be about 1575 and 12 months from now, about 1625. Clearly above where we are, but the rate of increase from this point, we think, will be a little bit slower. 

 GHARIB: Well, looking at those targets, because you raised those S&P and Dow targets just last week, when you look at them from where we are now, you`re talking about maybe a 5 percent increase in the S&P between now and the end of the year, which doesn`t sound that bullish, Abby. 

 JOSEPH COHEN: Well, it seems to me the right way to look at it is a 12 month or an annualized view and we think returns will be on the order of 10 percent. That, in fact, is a little bit above the historical trend. What we have to realize is that we have enjoyed an extended period of above normal returns with below normal volatility and what we`re saying is that going forward, expect average returns and average volatility. 

 GHARIB: You know, one of the things that surprised Wall Street and investors today is that for the first time in 10 years you told investors to sort of lighten up on tech stocks. Are you bearish on technology stocks? 

 JOSEPH COHEN: We are not at all bearish on technology. In fact, Susie, what happened is the actual market rating rose to our recommended level. For 10 years we were suggesting a dramatically overweight position relatively to the stock market, but over the last several months in particular, technology stocks finally got the respect that they deserve. We didn`t change our weighting. It`s the market weighting that finally grew significantly. What we`re suggesting that clients do in technology is still hold 35 percent of their portfolio in the combined tech telecom area. That`s not chopped liver and we would suggest that folks focus in on those specific issues where there`s confidence in terms of earnings momentum and product development. 

 GHARIB: OK, we just have 30 seconds. Real quickly, so what would you tell investors who have a little bit of money? Should they hold onto it as cash or should they put it into the market, and if so, what do they buy, real quickly? 

 JOSEPH COHEN: I think there are great opportunities in areas that have been neglected, financial services, small to midcap REITs and let`s not forget some bonds which look attractively priced. 

 GHARIB: All right, thank you so much. We really appreciate you talking to us tonight. 

 JOSEPH COHEN: Thank you. 

 GHARIB: And we`ve been speaking with Abby Joseph Cohen of Goldman Sachs. YASTINE: Microsoft got a reprieve today in its federal anti-trust case. Sources say the judge gave both sides 10 more days to negotiate a settlement. NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT has learned the Justice Department is consulting technical experts, reviewing Microsoft`s proposal to change some of its business practices. But anti-trust observers say the two sides are still a long way from an agreement. 

 GHARIB: The B to B e-commerce world has a new player, Boeing (BA), Lockheed Martin (LMT), BAE (BAE) and Raytheon (RTN) are teaming up to launch an electronic marketplace designed to cut costs. They`re a powerful force. They buy $71 billion worth of goods and services every year. But as Scott Gurvey reports, they`re not the first and won`t be the last to jump on the B to B bandwagon. 

 SCOTT GURVEY, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: What do you do if you`re Boeing and you want to buy one million light bulbs for the airplanes you`re building? Looking through the yellow pages is not a practical answer. Of course, if you`re Boeing, the light bulb makers probably come to you. But the cost of procurement is still so high it has driven rival companies together to form a common market system. 

 PHILIP CONDIT, CHAIRMAN & CEO, BOEING: These companies are at various times  competitors, partners, customers and suppliers to each other depending on individual programs or projects. Yet each of us has come to share the same point of view, that the global e-marketplace is absolutely essential if we are to drive new levels of efficiency for the industry. 

 GURVEY: Consumers are familiar with B to C, business to consumer at online retail sites like Amazon (AMZN) and auction sites like eBay (EBAY). The project announced today is what is called B to B, business to business electronic commerce. Consumers still like to shop at stores, so B to C has had a relatively small impact. But business is different. Less than 25 percent of a procurement officer`s time is actually spent on procurement. That`s a terrific incentive. 

 SIR RICHARD HARRY EVANS, CHAIRMAN, BAE SYSTEMS: The rest of their time is an overhead cost in our business, which is sorting out queries, dealing with the sort of interface with supplier and purchaser, invoice issues, the whole miscellany of time and cost and effort that goes into that, which we think can be attacked through the exchange sort of process. 

 GURVEY: Here`s how it works. Boeing put its order for light bulbs on the network. It can buy from an online catalog or suppliers can bid for the business. The system provides much of the infrastructure to support the transaction. It is also a two way street. Boeing intends to sell  parts, training and services through the system. A similar shared procurement system has been announced by auto giants GM (GM), Ford (F), and DaimlerChrysler (DAJ). California based Commerce One (CMRC) will run the aerospace marketplace. It already runs several sites. Other companies providing these services are Ariba (ARBA) and I2, which has the contract to set up another aerospace site for Honeywell (HON) and United Technologies (UTX). Database giant Oracle (ORCL) also provides some of these systems. Experts predict a shakeout, leaving perhaps  a dozen big online markets, each covering a specific industry. They predict those markets will do a major part of business to business, business in the years ahead. Scott Gurvey, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, New York. 

 YASTINE: And continuing with our look at today`s OPEC decision and oil prices, investors wonder if a recent small rally in oil stocks is for real. And, of course, that depends on what happens to oil prices as those production increases by OPEC kick in. Joining us now live from San Francisco to talk about his own company`s expectations for the future is David O`Reilly, chairman and CEO at Chevron (CHV). Mr. O`Reilly, thanks for joining us today. 

 DAVID O`REILLY, CHAIRMAN & CEO, CHEVRON: Glad to be here, Jeff. 

 YASTINE: Let`s talk a little bit about oil prices. We have a $1.7 million barrel a day increase. What does that mean from your position in terms of  oil prices? 

 O`REILLY: Well, I think it`s going to help reduce oil prices somewhat, but maybe not as much as people think. I think the market has already anticipated much of this increase. We think that there`s perhaps a million barrels per day of this already being produced. So we`re really only talking about 700,000 barrels a day and given the low inventory situations globally, I don`t expect it to have that dramatic an impact on prices in the very near term. 

 YASTINE: So really not enough to equal or exceed what the demand is right now? 

 O`REILLY: Not really close. You know, the reality is we`re not quite sure what OPEC is producing. And until we see the impact in inventories and shipments over the next few months, it will be difficult to tell. 

 YASTINE: But it sounds like overall you expect generally higher if not stable prices for crude oil? 

 O`REILLY: Certainly through the summer demand period. We`re entering a lower period as refineries start to build their production of gasoline for the summer season. So I don`t expect a significant slack off in pricing during this period of time until we see what happens this summer, watch inventory levels and see what actually comes out of OPEC. 

 YASTINE: Now, how quickly will we see these sorts of increases? Of course, oil has been moving higher for months now. How quickly will we see these sorts of increases flow through to Chevron`s bottom line, into your margins? 

 O`REILLY: Well, we certainly have benefited from crude oil prices as have all oils. Now, this has not been reflected much in the equity markets, as you know. The "old economy" hasn`t done so well. But I think when people see the strength of the performance of our company and our peers, they might be quite surprised. And I`m kind of bullish on the outlook. We talk about a high tech economy but the reality is even though we`re only two and a half percent of GDP and have declined significantly as a percentage of GDP over the last few years, we still are a very important component of economic growth. We`re the fuel that puts the van in Web Van . We`re the Express in Federal Express (FDX) and any time someone plugs in a computer or a hard drive or a  router, there`s energy that supplies the power to drive our economy. So I`m very bullish about this and feel that if this will help the economy stabilize and continue to grow, particularly in Asia, that the outlook for energy and for energy equities is very good. 

 YASTINE: I`ve got about 20 seconds left. Do you think that your shares are undervalued right now? I read something that analysts thought your shares were. They were priced at $17 a barrel instead of the expectations of a mid $20 range. 

 O`REILLY: Well, we think-we`re very bullish about the outlook. Most analysts have a "buy" or a "very strong hold" on Chevron and I`m confident that we`re going to deliver on expectations. 

 YASTINE: All right, we`ll end it there, then. Mr. O`Reilly, thank you very much. 

 O`REILLY: Thank you. 

 YASTINE: Our guest, David O`Reilly, Chairman and CEO at Chevron. 

 GHARIB: Call it the Abby effect-blue chips took a turn for the worse today on those less than bullish stock market comments from Abby Joseph Cohen. The Dow tumbled 90 points to 10,936. Decliners had a very narrow lead over advancing issues and there were 53 new highs versus 62 new lows. 

 Looking at the specifics, a lot of fanfare for Bank One (ONE) today, up 3 3/8 in reaction to news that former Citigroup president Jamie Dimon has accepted the position of CEO at Bank One. 

 Compaq (CPQ) dipped 3/4. 

 America Online (AOL) fell 2 7/16. 

 AT&T (T) ended off 1 7/16. 

 And Philip Morris (MO) slipped an 1/8. 

 Citigroup rose about a point. 

 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) gained 1 3/8. That`s a nice bounce after a three session slide. Donaldson Lufkin believes it can still meet Wall Street projections for the year despite troubles surrounding Propulsid. That`s its heartburn drug. 

 Cendant (CD) rose 11/16. It`s drawing a crowd with recent investments into Funds Express and a national ad campaign for its real estate units promoted  by Move.com. 

 Pfizer (PFE) picked up 7/16. 

 But Lucent (LU) lost 1 1/8. 

 Among the widelies, American Express (AXP) picked up 2. 

 Best Buy (BBY) jumped 6 1/8. It posted fourth quarter profits of $0.78 a share. That was four cents better than Wall Street estimates. 

 Hewlett Packard (HWP) dropped 5 1/2 and that really hurt the Dow today. Johnson Controls (JCI) rose 2. J.P. Morgan says the company has potential to deliver an upside surprise in the second quarter because the controls business is performing very well. 

 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter (MWD) fell 2 points and that`s even though the brokerage giant will replace 

 Monsanto (MCT) in the S&P 100 Index after the market closes this Friday. Usually it gets a reverse effect, the stocks go up. 

 And UAL (UAL) soared 3 13/16. It raised its first quarter earnings estimates by as much as $0.15 above the previous forecast of $1.20 because of stronger than expected passenger traffic. 

 Icici Bank (IBN) rose 3 5/16. This Indian private bank began trading on the big board today. The ADRs were priced at $11 each, so it got a pretty good start for its first day of trading. 

 Startek (SRT) surged 13 1/2 on news that it will replace Powerwave Tech (PWAV) in the S&P Smallcap 600 Index. 

 Hadco (HDC) finished up 10 1/2. Bank Boston and Robertson Stephens, Donaldson Lufkin raised their one year price targets to $80 and $85, respectively. 

 Arrow Electronics (ARW) advanced 4 7/8 to a new 52 week high on word that the company is pretty optimistic that its first quarter earnings will beat Street estimates by 15 percent to 20 percent. 

 Southdown (SDW) climbed 6 3/16. It`s exploring strategic alternatives to enhance shareholder value. This could mean that it will sell or merge the company. 

 And Finova Group (FNV) down another 3 1/2 points. Yesterday, it fell 12 points on a first quarter profit warning. 

 Over on the NASDAQ, the Index buckled under, losing more than 124 points to 4834. Volume 1.4 billion, which was up from yesterday`s pace and there were nearly 4 more stocks up than down. 

 Microsoft (MSFT) broke its fall, up a 1/4 point today. And you heard the story there. 

 Cisco Systems (CSCO) ended off 2 3/16. 

 But QUALCOMM (QCM) climbed 5 7/8. The story there, QUALCOMM and Motorola (MOT) agreed to drop their patent infringement lawsuits over CDMA wireless technology. Under the agreement, QUALCOMM will get royalty rates for its CDMA handset patents. 

 Intel (INTC), the big loser in the Dow today, fell 7 points or about five percent. 

 And Juniper (JUNI) shot up 30 9/16. Investors are excited about its latest  high speed Internet router. 

 Sun Microsystems (SUNW) fell 4 3/8. 

 Oracle (ORCL) ended off 1 7/8. 

 Emulex (EMLX) tumbled more than 57 points. 

 MCI WorldCom (WCOM) slipped 3/4. 

 Dell Computer (DELL) dropped 2. 

 As for the big movers, we have a new issue to tell you about, Websense (WBSN), up almost 30 points today. It specializes in Internet surveillance software. It went public at $18 a share. Mid Coast Bancorp (MCBN) jumped 8 3/4 on news that it`ll be acquired by Union Bankshares (UBSH) for $15.88 in cash. 

 Palm Inc. (PALM) slipped 9/16. This is the company that makes those Palm Pilots. After the close today it posted better than expected third quarter earnings of $0.03 a share. 

 Over on the AMEX, the Composite Index lost 7 points. 

 Among the movers there, Self Care gained 1 1/2. No news that we could dig up there. 

 Diodes (DIO) rose 3 13/16. It says its stake in Light On Power Semiconductor won`t be affected by Viche`s decision to sell its own stake in that company. 

 And as for the Index Shares, they all closed lower. 

 So, Jeff, that`s a look at some of the stocks that made news today. 

 YASTINE: Well, more details today on the largest IPO ever. AT&T is set to raise up to $13 billion through its wireless tracking stock. That works out to 360 million shares priced in the range of $26 to $32 each. It will trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol AWE and reflect the performance of AT&T`s voice and data mobility businesses. 

 GHARIB: Tomorrow, some surprising facts about women and money. 

 GHARIB: Pink slips are on the way at Xerox (XRX). The company is expected to announce details later this week. However, analysts expect job cuts of around 3,000 to 5,000, a restructuring charge in the $600 million to $900 million range and some possible plant closings. Xerox`s stock has fallen dramatically recently, down from $64 last year to just under $27 today, after slipping 5/16. 

 YASTINE: More trouble tonight for the troubled restaurant chain Rainforest Cafe . The state of Wisconsin`s investment board opposes Rainforest`s deal to be bought out by the Landry`s seafood chain. The pension fund is the second major shareholder to speak out against the $125 million deal in the past two days. Rainforest shares gained an 1/8 to 3 15/16. Landry`s stock was up a 1/4 to 6 1/2. 

 GHARIB: The recent trend in international trade has seen the U.S. importing much more than we export. That concerns many economists, but not tonight`s commentator. Here`s Charles Schultze, senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. 

 CHARLES SCHULTZE, COMMENTARY: Some analysts worry that the soaring U.S. trade deficit could threaten the continuation of prosperity. Foreign investors could eventually sour on holding a continually rising volume of dollar assets, producing a major collapse in the exchange value of the dollar and sharp inflationary pressures. Well, the trade deficit has been rising because this country is increasingly spending more on consumer and investment goods than it produces. We import the difference and borrow overseas to finance the resulting trade deficit. The dynamic American economy offers a large volume of productive investment opportunities. We would indeed be better off if American consumers spent less, saved more and themselves financed a larger fraction of the nation`s investment spending. But given the low consumer saving rate, it makes sense to finance the investment with overseas borrowing rather than to abandon it, since the benefits America gets from the investment are larger than its borrowing costs. Foreign investors may eventually become less eager to keep on adding to their portfolios of dollar assets. The exchange value of the dollar will begin falling, which will boost American exports, but it will also add modestly to inflationary pressures and perhaps raise interest rates a little. However, these adjustments will be gradual and manageable. They won`t threaten prosperity unless the dollar suddenly crashes. And so long as we continue to pursue sound budget and monetary policy, the dollars is not going to crash. I`m Charles Schultze. 

 YASTINE: And recapping today`s market action, the Dow fell almost 90 points and the NASDAQ lost 124. And please join us at our World Wide Web site, NBR.com, or on America Online, keyword: NBR. 

 GHARIB: And finally tonight, they`re calling it the Rolls Royce of pianos, and for $333,000, it had better be. The Yamaha Corporation is rolling out what`s believed to be the world`s most expensive piano. It`s called the Disklavier Pro 2000. It`s made of oak and rosewood, but  it`s also electronic. It`s built around a computer chip that responds to the user`s voice. It has a DVD player that can play back a concert performance, with the instrument`s keys and pedals recreating the piano part. And as you might expect, Jeff, this high tech piano isn`t for everyone. So far, there have only been three made. 

 YASTINE: They`ll have to work out some sort of an installment plan so people can buy it on credit, I guess. 

 GHARIB: It`s sort of like a modern piano player, you know, with the keys all moving. 

 YASTINE: It`s the piano you need a mortgage for, that`s what it is. 

 GHARIB: Exactly. 

 YASTINE: That`s NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT for Tuesday, March 28th. I`m Jeff Yastine. Good night, everyone. Good night to you, Susie. 

 GHARIB: And good night to you, Jeff. I`m Susie Gharib and we`ll see all of you again tomorrow night. 

 Nightly Business Report transcripts are available on-line post-broadcast. The program is transcribed by FDCH. Updates may be posted at a later date. 

 The views of our guests and commentators are their own and do not necessarily represent the views of Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. Nightly Business Report, or WPBT. 

 Information presented on Nightly Business Report is not and should not be considered as investment advice. 

 c2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. 

 END 

 TO PURCHASE A VIDEOTAPE OF THIS PIECE, PLEASE CALL  888-266-3601 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc.  Formatting and transcription copyright 2000 eMediaMillWorks, Inc.  (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No quotes from the materials contained herein may be used  in any media without attribution to Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. This transcript may not be copied or resold in any media. 

Document nbr0000020010808dw3s0001q


 mmWire News Briefs - HIP Interactive/SJS Group, Infogrames, UBI Soft, Electronic Arts, PC Data, id Software, GameWorks, pogo.com/About.com/TalkCity.com, Imagine Media, zupit.com/iGame, 3dfx/Intrinsic, 3DO, Infogrames, GT Interactive, MacSoft, Wilco Publishing, Take-Two Interactive, Razer/Cyberathlete Professional League, WomenGamers.com 

935 words
28 March 2000
mmWire
MWIR
Vol. 7, Issue: 58
English
 (c) 2000 Phillips Business Information, Inc. 

 Ecommerce company HIP Interactive completed its acquisition of SJS Group, Canada's largest privately held game and hardware distributor. Financing came through private placement of roughly 3.8m special warrants at $2.67 each for gross proceeds of slightly more than $10m. (Michael Shipticki for HIP, 416/366- 7735) 

 The French index SBF250 rose Monday, led by Infogrames Entertainment, up 18 percent and UBI Soft Entertainment, up 16 percent, Dow Jones reports. Both companies dropped on Friday following Eidos Interactive's profit warning. 

 Electronic Arts' [ERTS] unit EA.com hired high-tech specialist Chen PR to handle its public relations. EA.com will be the exclusive publisher of content for the AOL [AOL] games site, launching this summer. (Chen PR, Brenda Nashawaty, 781/466-8282) 

 PC Data named Mark Capaldini president/COO. Capaldini was previously president/CEO of Congressional Information Service. The hiring is the first part of an expansion plan for the growing company, Chairman/CEO Ann Stephens said. (PC Data, Jim Carey, 703/995-5902) 

 id Software named Marty Stratton director of business development. Stratton previously worked with Activision [ATVI] as a producer in its StudioX PC group where he worked on id games, including several titles in the Quake series. (Bryce Baer for id, 310/785-0515) 

 GameWorks named LeeAnne Stables VP of marketing. Prior to joining GameWorks, Stables held the top promotion post at the E! Network's E! and Style shows and was previously VP of advertising and promotion for MCA/Universal Studios Hollywood. There are currently 14 GameWorks locations worldwide. (Sandra Shagat for GameWorks, 310/479-9929) 

 pogo.com will provide its gaming content to About.com [BOUT] visitors under a new distribution agreement. The company also announced a similar deal with TalkCity.com under which it will provide content to that company's consumer community sites. (pogo.com, Garth Chouteau, 415/778-3774) 

 Imagine Media's Official Sega Dreamcast Magazine circulation reached 250K as of its fifth issue, the company said. (Imagine, Ken Chang, 415/468-4684 x421) 

 Ubi Soft Entertainment will add a game channel to German company Metabox's web TV service, MetaTV, Reuters reports. Financial terms were not disclosed, but the deal will allow Metabox customers to order and download Ubi Soft game software through their televisions. 

 zupit.com and its i2e2 division, in conjunction with event producer iGame, launched the Spring 2000 GameXpo and Tournament Series. The tour, featuring competitions with titles such as Starcraft and Quake III: Arena begins this week in Panama City, Fl. and continues in eight major cities and college campuses through April. Cash and prizes total $25k, zupit.com said. (Steve Sylvia for zupit.com, 415/931-5555) 

 3dfx Interactive [TDFX] is demonstrating its next-gen VSA-100 graphics processor, the heart of its upcoming Voodoo5 line, in New York City today for investors and analysts. The new chips will allow, for the first time, full-scene anti-aliasing, the company said. Additionally, the company is endorsing the Alchemy game development platform (GDP) produced by Intrinsic Graphics. The GDP will support 3dfx's Voodoo3, Voodoo4, Voodoo5 and upcoming Rampage 3D graphics boards, the companies said. (3dfx, Lisa Grubb, 408/934-5068; Intrinsic Graphics, Steve Gleitsmann, 650/210-9933 x24) 

 3DO [THDO] is holding a sweepstakes to promote Sammy Sosa High Heat Baseball 2001 for PC and PlayStation. First prize is a trip for two to the 2000 MLB All-Star Game and John Hancock All-Star FanFest. The PSX version of the title ($39.95) shipped this week. Separately, 3DO will ship Army Men - Air Combat for N64 in June. (3DO, Mike Meyers, 650/261-3000) 

 Infogrames North America shipped Worms: Armageddon ($49.95) for N64 this week. Separately, Infogrames will ship jet racer NGEN and comic action title Hogs of War, both for PlayStation, this summer. (Infogrames, Meridith Braun, 408/985-1700 x415) 

 GT Interactive [GTIS] shipped Ka-52 Team Alligator ($49.95) for PC. The title was developed by Simis. (Lance Seymour for GT Interactive, 212/338-0077) 

 MacSoft will ship 3D space shooter Asteroids for Mac ($29.99) next month. The title is being developed by Metis International. (Lance Seymour for MacSoft, 212/338-0077) 

 Wilco Publishing will ship Airport 2000 Volume 2 ($39) for PC this week. The title is an add-on for Microsoft's [MSFT] Flight Sim 2000 and Flight Sim 98. (Lauren Tascan for Wilco Publishing, 212/772-3900) 

 Take-Two Interactive [TTWO] unit Rockstar Games will ship Austin Powers: Mojo Rally for Dreamcast in October. The title is being developed by Climax's Brighton Studio. (Take-Two, Jeff Castaneda, 212/334-6633) 

 Electronic Arts [ERTS] will ship James Bond title The World is Not Enough for N64 later this year. The title is being developed by UK-based Eurocom. (EA, Jeane Wong, 650/628-7702) 

 Razer, maker of the Boomslang gaming mouse, is sponsoring a Cyberathlete Professional League (CPL) Quake III: Arena competition in Dallas, April 13-16. Contestants from 11 countries will compete for $100k in prize money. (Alan Penchansky for CPL, 305/529-1944) 

 WomenGamers.Com was reviewed in the March 31 Entertainment Weekly. The site, to devoted to informing the masses about women and gaming, dispelling stereotypes and turning a profit (mmW Aug. 2) offers gaming news, reviews, articles and a game recommendation service. (WomenGamers.Com, Phaedra Boinodiris, CEO, 919/316-1508) 

Document mwir000020010808dw3s00083




Business
Raytheon chief gets a raise as stock falls

CROMWELL SCHUBARTH and TIM McLAUGHLIN   
379 words
28 March 2000
Boston Herald
BHLD
ALL
23
English
Copyright © 2000 Boston Herald, All rights reserved.  Distributed by NewsBank, Inc.   

Chairman and Chief Executive Daniel Burnham got a 1999 pay package worth an estimated $8.4 million in his first full year at Raytheon Co.

That's up 69 percent from the $4.97 million he received in compensation, bonus and stock options after he joined the Lexington-based defense company in mid-1998.

Apart from his annual pay, Burnham got $21.9 million in one-time stock awards when he joined Raytheon in 1998, most of it to make up for stock benefits he lost by leaving AlliedSignal.

Burnham's pay boost came as Raytheon stock dropped 50 percent last year after downgrading its earnings outlook twice.

"I think it's outrageous, frankly," said state Sen. Susan Fargo (D-Lincoln). Fargo has been critical of Raytheon after the company cut Massachusetts manufacturing jobs while receiving state tax breaks.

She said Burnham's pay package demonstrates the "big gap between senior managers cutting jobs and the workers who have been laid off."

In Raytheon's 1998 annual report, Burnham made bold predictions for the No. 3 U.S. defense contractor. But production delays, a heavy debt load and unprofitable contracts hurt Raytheon's performance.

The company issued a third profit warning in January. Raytheon Class B stock closed yesterday at $18.61, down 28 percent since Jan. 1.

Burnham's salary rose to $900,000 in 1999 from $425,004 he got for his six months at Raytheon in 1998. His bonus dropped 40 percent, to $900,000 last year from $1.5 million in 1998.

Stock options he collected in 1999 were estimated to be worth $6.5 million, compared to $2.8 million in options he got in 1998.

Burnham has vowed to increase shareholder value, but some Wall Street analysts remain cautious about the company's outlook this year and beyond.

William Fiala, a defense analyst at Edward D. Jones & Co. in St. Louis, said he's not convinced Raytheon has the management depth to right its course.

"How does Raytheon attract 'A' players?" Fiala asked. "I still don't think you can say the skeletons are all out in the public."

CASH TO BURNHAM: CEO Burnham got $8.4 million.   

Document BHLD000020110827dw3s00f6b




 Technology Journal: Bizbytes   

 Compiled by Edward Harris from staff and wire reports   
528 words
27 March 2000
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
34
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

 IDT Plans Unit   

 To Target Market   

 For Communications   

 Integrated Device Technology Inc. is expected to announce Monday that it is forming a communications products division, dubbed the Internetworking Products Division, which will hone the company's focus on making chips for communications markets.   

 Jerry Taylor, chief executive officer of the Californian chip maker, said the company will focus on making microprocessors and memory chips for networking equipment and phone company infrastructure. As such, the company will stop most future development of microprocessors for television set-top boxes and printers.   

 IDT has made communications and memory chips for some time, but for the past few years it was preoccupied with ventures to make microprocessors and graphics chips for personal computers.   

 Police Say Teen   

 Purloined Gates Data   

 LONDON -- A teenager arrested in Wales for allegedly hacking into e-commerce Web sites had obtained the credit card details of Bill Gates, head of Microsoft and the world's richest man, investigators said.   

 Raphael Gray, 18, was arrested on Saturday for Internet fraud after a joint operation between the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation and Welsh Police.   

 The FBI said that losses connected to the activities of Mr. Gray and another unnamed 18-year-old could exceed $3 million (3 million euros).   

 Mr. Gray and his accomplice e-mailed credit-card details, including those of Mr. Gates, to NBCi, a subsidiary of the NBC broadcasting group.   

 The 18-year-olds allegedly hacked into nine e-commerce Web sites around the world, stealing credit card information related to more than 26,000 accounts from web sites in the U.S., Canada, Thailand, Japan and Britain.   

 China to Ban   

 Web Music Sales   

 BEIJING -- In its latest effort to impose control over freewheeling electronic commerce, China has announced rules banning online sales of imported music and videos and excluding foreign-invested Internet companies from selling any audiovisual products.   

 The report said the rules were intended to prevent sales of pirated, smuggled or "otherwise illegal" music and video products and to help "develop a healthy market."   

 Downloads using MP3 file-format systems are also prohibited, it said.   

 Italians Flock   

 To Telecom-Net Firm   

 MILAN -- Over 2.5 million Italians have signed up to take a stake in the telecommunication and Internet firm e.Biscom, which is set to rival bourse trailblazer Tiscali for popularity on Milan's Nuovo Mercato for high-growth stocks.   

 The offer closed on Friday and a financial source said preliminary figures showed over 2.5 million retail investors, or 4% of the population, had applied for shares and the institutional offer was around 20 times overbid.   

 Only 2.85 million of the 9.5 million shares on offer are reserved for retail investors.   

 Lucent Falls Victim   

 To Web Prank   

 NEW YORK -- Lucent Technologies Inc. became the latest victim of an Internet hoax when a fake news release posted on a Yahoo! Inc. message board late Wednesday warned of a profit shortfall for the fiscal second quarter.   

 The bogus report exacerbated rumors about a profit warning -- already circulating on the Internet that knocked the company's stock lower that day.   

Document wsje000020010814dw3r004wo




 Business 
 Business Briefs 

Compiled from staff and wire reports
673 words
24 March 2000
San Antonio Express-News
SAEN
Metro
02E
English
 (c) Copyright 2000 San Antonio Express-News. All Rights Reserved. 

 Clear Channel eyes railroad firm's ad trade 

 Clear Channel Communications Inc. is vying for another chunk of the outdoor advertising market in France, the French business newspaper Les Echos reported. 

 San Antonio-based Clear Channel, which bought a 50.5 percent stake in France's largest billboard and outdoor ad firm Dauphin OTA, is reportedly negotiating to buy 80 percent of the ad business from the state-owned railroad company, Societe Nationale de Chemins de Fer. 

 The price, Les Echos reports, is about 800 million French francs, or $183.6 million. 

 Clear Channel became a major player in Europe with its 1998 acquisition of London-based More Group. Since then it has taken controlling interests in several other European outdoor advertising companies, solidifying positions in Italy, Scandinavia, Belgium, France, Spain, Switzerland and Poland. 

 Senate OKs sharp cut in crop-insurance costs 

 WASHINGTON - Hoping to induce more farmers to buy federally subsidized crop insurance, the Senate overwhelmingly agreed Thursday to sharply reduce premiums and cover new commodities. The changes would cost taxpayers $1.5 billion a year. 

 In addition to cutting premiums by as much as half on some policies, legislation that passed 95-5 would offer insurance for the first time to livestock producers and expand coverage for fruit and vegetable growers. A House-Senate conference committee will work out differences between this bill and a similar measure that passed the House last year. 

 IMF unanimously elects Koehler as its director 

 WASHINGTON - The International Monetary Fund unanimously elected Germany's Horst Koehler as its new managing director on Thursday, while the drive to impose radical reforms on the 182-nation lending agency gained momentum in Congress. 

 The selection of Koehler, 57, ratified Thursday by the IMF's 24-member executive committee, came only after a bruising four-month global power struggle which saw the United States publicly reject Europe's first candidate for the job. 

 Microsoft forges pact with H&R Block 

 SEATTLE - Microsoft Corp. is abandoning its own foray into the tax preparation software market in favor of an alliance with H&R Block Corp. aimed at developing Internet and desktop tax preparation products. 

 In announcing the move Thursday, Microsoft said it will drop development of its proprietary tax preparation software, TaxSaver. Under the terms of the agreement, customers who use Microsoft's financial Web site, MSN MoneyCentral, will be able to download H&R Block's tax preparation software, TaxCut. 

 Hearst-Argyle invests $25 million in IXL 

 NEW YORK - Hearst-Argyle Television Inc., a U.S. television broadcaster, said it invested $25 million in IXL Enterprises Inc.'s Consumer Financial Network, which provides finance and health information and services on the Web. 

 Hearst-Argyle also said it will exchange advertising time on its TV stations and Internet sites for a minority stake in Consumer Financial Network. 

 Hearst-Argyle is majority owned by the Hearst Corp., which owns the San Antonio Express-News. 

 Interest rates decline on 30-year mortgages 

 WASHINGTON - Rates on 30-year mortgages slipped this week, while other mortgage rates crept up. The average interest rate on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages fell slightly to 8.23 percent for the week ending March 24, from 8.24 percent the week before, according to a weekly survey released Thursday by Freddie Mac, the mortgage company. 

 Fifteen-year mortgages ticked up this week with an average rate of 7.84 percent, compared with the average rate of 7.83 percent last week. On one-year adjustable-rate mortgages, lenders were asking an average initial rate of 6.78 percent this week, up from 6.68 percent the previous week. 

 SEC probes fake Lucent warning on Yahoo! 

 WASHINGTON - The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said it's investigating a fake profit warning on a Yahoo! Inc. message board that was designed to look like a press release from Lucent Technologies Inc. 

 Lucent notified the SEC about the phony warning and contacted Yahoo to inquire about having it removed. 

Document saen000020010813dw3o008co




 Business briefs 

1,282 words
24 March 2000
Deseret News
DN
B04
English
 Copyright (c) 2000 Deseret News Publishing Co. 

 Pharmaceutical firm to stop selling its heartburn drug 

 WASHINGTON (AP) -- The popular heartburn drug Propulsid, which has been associated with 80 deaths, will no longer be marketed after July, except in special circumstances, its maker and federal regulators said. 

 Known chemically as cisapride, the drug has been prescribed for patients who suffer severe heartburn, or gastroesophageal reflux disease, and have not responded to other drugs. 

 A false Lucent profit warning on Yahoo! triggers probe 

 WASHINGTON (Bloomberg) -- The Securities and Exchange Commission said it's investigating a fake profit warning on a Yahoo! Inc. message board that was designed to look like a press release from Lucent Technologies Inc. 

 "We are aware of the situation and are looking into it," SEC enforcement director Richard Walker said in an interview. 

 Lucent notified the SEC about the phony warning and contacted Yahoo to inquire about having it removed, spokesman Jeff Baum said. He declined to say if Lucent is considering legal action. 

 Lucent shares had fallen as much as 3.6 percent before the company said it hadn't issued a warning. They rose after Lucent's statement. 

 Airlines seek better ways to secure cockpit doors 

 WASHINGTON (AP) -- Major airlines are looking for ways to better secure cockpits after a 250-pound passenger burst through the door of a Alaska Airlines jetliner in flight March 16 and lunged for the controls. 

 American, Alaska, Northwest, Delta and TWA airlines said they were looking for ways to modify and strengthen bifold cockpit doors standard on certain planes. 

 Federal regulators would have to approve any modification. And there's one catch: While the door needs to protect crew members from disruptive passengers, it must also allow them to get out of the plane quickly. 

 "The one thing you can't do is put a bank vault door on the cockpit," said Jack Evans, a spokesman at Alaska Airlines. "The door needs to be secure, but it also needs to be an emergency exit as well." 

 Future e-mail could say: 'You've got a subpoena!' 

 WASHINGTON (AP) -- That familiar e-mail greeting may start showing up with a novel twist: "You've got a subpoena!" 

 Dozens of electronic messages this week carried what's believed to be an unprecedented payload -- a subpoena and other documents approved by a judge warning that the recipient's Web site may be violating a federal court order. 

 Supporters applaud the idea, saying it allows attorneys to respond in accelerated "Internet time" to new issues of law and technology. Critics say it's unworkable because e-mail can be falsified or forged so easily. 

 In a highly unusual legal fight in Massachusetts, U.S. District Judge Edward Harrington granted a temporary restraining order last week against two computer experts who distributed a method to thwart the popular "Cyber Patrol" software, which blocks children from Internet pornography. 

 These experts wrote a utility, called "cphack," that discloses a parent's password, thus allowing access to questionable Web sites. It also reveals the product's entire list of more than 100,000 Internet sites deemed unsuitable for children. Cyber Patrol sells for about $30 and is widely used in many of the nation's elementary schools and libraries. 

 The filtering software's manufacturer, Microsystems Inc., alleged that the pair violated U.S. copyright law when they reverse-engineered Cyber Patrol to analyze it. The software's license agreement says users "may not reverse engineer, decompile or disassemble the software." 

 The two experts, Eddy L.O. Jansson of Sweden and Matthew Skala of Canada, haven't formally responded to the charges. Skala said in a telephone interview last week that he opposes filtering software on philosophical grounds and believes the pair's research was allowed under a "fair use" clause of copyright law. 

 But within hours of Microsystems' announcement that it would try to prevent Jansson and Skala from distributing their research, activists copied the utility and details of the effort and began distributing them across the Internet on nearly two dozen Web sites that duplicated Jansson and Skala's original work, including on sites overseas. 

 "These mirror sites were sprouting up all over the Net," said Irwin B. Schwartz, the lawyer for Microsystems. 

 Harrington granted the temporary order and set a hearing for Monday to consider the issues more fully. Meanwhile, Schwartz successfully pressed the judge to allow him to e-mail copies of the order with a subpoena for related information to anyone who was distributing Jansson and Skala's efforts, including the disputed "cphack" utility and its blueprints. 

 Schwartz said he plans also to send physical copies of the documents via registered mail. 

 "It has come to our attention that your Web hosting service or Web site is publishing one or both of these prohibited files," Schwartz's e-mail said. He also included a subpoena demanding electronic logs identifying the people who downloaded the files. 

 "It makes sense. You want to put people who might conceivably be in violation of a court order that they're on notice," said Schwartz, who sent dozens of the e-mails and received a few "snooty messages" in reply. 

 Among those who received the e-mail was Declan McCullagh, a Washington-based journalist for Wired who also manages an Internet discussion list about technology policy issues, where Microsystems' actions were roundly condemned. 

 McCullagh published on his personal Web site archived messages about the controversy. He criticized Schwartz's e-mails as "subpoena spam" and "a shotgun approach to discovery." 

 "Obviously, the Internet makes it easier to distribute this stuff, so it makes sense that lawyers are responding to Internet problems with Internet solutions, but in this case they've gone too far," McCullagh said. "E-mail is easy to forge," he added. "I can't even be certain it really did come from a real lawyer." 

 Schwartz said the judge's permission was crucial, as it granted him the ability to send subpoenas as quickly as new mirror sites were published on the Internet. 

 "It provides a medium to serve the court's order at Internet speed as opposed to snail mail or even worse, by courier," Schwartz said. 

 Lineo to acquire Moreton Bay -- its 4th in recent weeks 

 Lineo Inc., a Utah-based developer of embedded Linux system software, will acquire Moreton Bay Ventures. The Australian company creates "virtual product network" solutions for Internet appliances. 

 They also specialize in engineering development for the Motorola ColdFire chip platform, which Lineo chief executive officer Bryan Sparks hails as an enhancement for Lineo's product support of various popular platforms. 

 It's the fourth acquisition for Lineo, based in Lindon, in recent weeks. In February the company announced it was buying Zentropix and Rt-Control, which will give it the ability to imbed Linux in small microcontrollers. Lineo also plans to buy USE&#lt; a Japan-based custom engineering firm that works with a number of hardware platforms and operating systems. 

 With the purchases, Lineo has sales, service and engineering officers in Utah, Washington, Virginia, California. Toronto, Taiwan, the United Kingdom, Japan and Australia. 

 Earthgrains purchases Metz in $625 million deal 

 The Earthgrains Co. has purchased Metz Baking Co., which has operations in Salt Lake City, for $625 million. 

 Metz, which was a subsidiary of Specialty Foods Corp. of Deerfield, Ill., had sales of nearly $600 million in 1999. Earthgrains, which operates fresh-bakery and refrigerated-dough businesses in the United States and Europe, had sales of more than $1.9 billion in fiscal 1999. 

 Metz-owned brands include Old Home and Master. The company also bakes products under leading franchised brands, including Holsum, Taystee, D'Italiano, Pillsbury, Healthy Choice, Roman Meal, Country Hearth and Sunbeam. 

Document dn00000020010805dw3o008rx




 TELEPHONY 

2,072 words
24 March 2000
COMMUNICATIONS DAILY
COMD
Volume 20; Issue 58
English
 (c) Copyright 2000 Warren Publishing, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

 AT&T asked federal court Wed. to force FCC to act on its 2-year-old complaint that Bell Atlantic violated conditions agency set for BA's merger with Nynex.  AT&T told U.S. Appeals Court, D.C., that "time is of the essence in resolving these claims, which seek to enforce a binding 4-year obligation." AT&T said FCC had positioned its agreement with BA-Nynex as "essential to protect consumers against the adverse competitive effects of that merger." Agency's delay in addressing AT&T's concerns "has already allowed Bell Atlantic to evade" one "critically important" part of agreement for more than 2 years, AT&T said:   "That Bell Atlantic offer new providers of local telephone service access to its bottleneck facilities at the economic cost-based rates that would prevail in a competitive market."  It said:  "It is now clear that only a writ from this court will prevent Bell Atlantic from running out the clock." 

 ------ 

 FCC rejected NextWave Telecom's offer to pay $4.3 billion owed on C-block licenses in order to "ensure the integrity of our licensing rules," FCC Chmn. Kennard wrote Thurs. in letter to Rep. Gordon (D-Tenn.).  Gordon had asked Kennard to respond to NextWave ads complaining that FCC had canceled its licenses for failure to make timely payments.  Kennard wrote:  "As a regulatory agency, we have a responsibility to the American people to enforce our rules fairly and efficiently to ensure that one of out most public assets is used to serve the American consumer."  He said FCC's position that licenses cancel automatically when licensee fails to meet payment deadline has been applied to all C-block licensees that missed payments, including another that missed payment on same date as NextWave.  Kennard urged legislation to ensure that being under bankruptcy protection can't "inoculate" licensee from payment obligations.  He said long delays in reclaiming licenses in NextWave case "underscore the importance" of enacting such legislation.  Kennard told Gordon that if auction winners don't "play by the rules and honor conditions placed on our licenses," then "bidders will have no confidence in the FCC's auction authority, and the American consumer will be denied the benefits of the new services resulting from our successful auction policies." 

 ------ 

 FCC requested comment on construction requirements it should impose on 800 MHz SMR licensees that are part of wide area system operating on non-SMR channels.  Commission asked if it should adopt for those licensees same construction rules as those adopted for wide-area licensees operating on SMR frequencies.  FCC also asked for comment on construction requirements, such as substantial service or population-based, for licensees operating on non-SMR frequencies.  Agency said regardless of decision, it plans to allow affected SMR licensees 6 months after adoption of final order to complete buildout, unless longer period is specified in order.  Comments are due March 27, replies April 6. 

 ------ 

 FCC said filing window will be open July 3-10 for applications for high-power signal booster stations, response station hubs and I channel point-to-multipoint transmission licenses.  Commission said window also may be used for filing instructional TV fixed service (ITFS) major modification applications.  FCC said applicant will be required to show it has met all requirements for interference protection to existing and prior proposed facilities and certify it has served all "potentially affected parties" with copies of application. 

 ------ 

 Industry committee recommended FCC roll back release date for new toll-free numbers 855 and 866.  Ordering & Billing Forum said more work is needed on reservation process used by number administrators.  Current supply of toll-free numbers will exhaust in Sept. 2001.  Forum is part of Alliance for Telecom Industry Solutions. 

 ------ 

 Qualcomm expanded Hitachi's CDMA license to include development and manufacture of infrastructure and subscriber equipment for all modes of 3rd-generation (3G) CDMA standard, including cdma2000 and W-CDMA.  Hitachi agreed to pay Qualcomm undisclosed up-front license fee and continuing royalties as it begins selling 3G equipment, Qualcomm said. 

 ------ 

 PCIA Pres. Jay Kitchen received $422,519 salary, plus $60,000 in benefits in 1998, Assn. said in latest tax return.  Assn. had revenue of $21.7 million in year, with most raised through "program service revenue," while expenses totaled $18.6 million. PCIA spent $4.5 million on salaries, not including Kitchen's, $2.8 million on "conferences, conventions and meetings," nearly $2 million on legal fees. 

 ------ 

 Yankee Group said half of Internet traffic in Europe now runs over Nortel optical Internet equipment.  Yankee Group report released Thurs. indicated cycle is growing in Europe in which Pan-European capacity expands, bandwidth prices drop and more traffic is encouraged, leading to greater capacity demand.  Report also concluded growth in availability of Pan-European network capacity is drawing more attention to paucity of capacity in some national networks.  It said more Internet traffic that originates in Europe stays there, with 2/3 of Internet traffic remaining in region by year-end 1999, compared with less than half by end of 1998. 

 ------ 

 GST Telecommunications said its CFO, Dan Trampush, is leaving "to pursue other opportunities" and company is restating its results for 1999. Integrated communications provider said it plans to announce new CFO March 28. GST cited SEC industry guidance, "prevailing industry practices related to the construction business" and analysis and consultation with independent auditors as reasons for decision to restate results. For quarter ended Dec. 31, company reported revenue of $69 million, up 38% over same period last year.  GST posted net loss of $66.88 million for 4th quarter, slightly more than $65.28 million loss year earlier.  GST said it recently hired Deloitte Consulting to assess company's 5-year strategy, which will be released this spring.  Company also employed Salomon Smith Barney to assist in evaluating financing options.  "We expect modest growth in our service business in the first half of 2000," GST Acting CEO Tom Malone said.  "Recent cost cutting, process improvement and restructuring measures are expected to streamline the business and drive service revenue growth during the 2nd half of the year." GST shares fell 6% on Nasdaq on Thurs. to close at $7.75. 

 ------ 

 France Telecom (FT) agreed to acquire 28.5% stake in German wireless operator MobilCom for $3.62 billion in move that would give FT entry into German market.  Companies said they plan to establish joint venture to bid for 3rd-generation (3G) wireless mobile license that will be auctioned this year by Germany's Regulatory Authority for Telecommunications & Post.  FT said agreement "materializes the 2 companies' common strategy of providing fixed, mobile and Internet services" to German residential customers and small and medium-sized businesses. Company indicated that after its investment at $94.33 per share, MobilCom founder Gerhard Schmid will remain largest shareholder with 40% stake.  Schmid will continue as chairman, but FT will have right to name one representative each to executive and supervisory boards.  Schmid said transaction would give MobilCom "financial scope" to acquire 3G license and wireless network that will be required for providing next-generation services. FT said it doesn't have immediate plans to raise its stake in MobilCom but wants to keep "a strong base of public shareholders in order to pursue its strategy of regularly raising capital to fund its developments."  Under deal, starting in 2003, FT will have option to raise its ownership in MobilCom by buying shares from Schmid. FT's plan (CD Dec 13 p5) to acquire part of another German wireless carrier, E-Plus Mobilfunk, was scuttled last year when BellSouth acquired Vodafone AirTouch's investment in operator.  FT also ended partnership with Deutsche Telekom earlier this year by purchasing DT and Sprint stakes in Global One joint venture. Besides its fixed wireless and Internet businesses, MobilCom has 2 million mobile wireless subscribers in Germany.  Company said it has one million "active users" of its ISP freenet.de AG.  "We expect to see very strong growth in the German market for mobile and multimedia services," FT Chmn. Michel Bon said.  FT said it expects to complement MobilCom's existing operations by offering global voice and data services to multinational businesses in Germany. 

 ------ 

 Canadian CLEC Group Telecom (GT) reached agreement with 360networks to buy $239 million of fiber connecting U.S. and Canadian cities.  GT also is taking nearly $34 million equity stake in 360networks, previously called Worldwide Fiber. "This transaction allows us to significantly enhance and expand Group Telecom's fiber optic network to include originating and terminating cross-border traffic," GT CEO Dan Milliard said.  GT purchase includes 12 fiber strands extending 7,000 km between Seattle and Halifax, through cities such as Calgary, Edmonton, Montreal, Ottawa, Quebec City, Toronto, Vancouver, Victoria.  GT also acquired indefeasible right of use that will provide another 12 fiber strands extending 7,900 km in U.S.  That 2nd set of fiber covers Albany, Boston, Buffalo, Chicago, Detroit, Denver, Montreal, N.Y.C., Sacramento, Seattle, Toronto.  GT said it has option to buy more segments connecting U.S. and Canada.  Besides fiber strands, 360networks said it's providing GT with up to 4 OC-48 channels on long-term basis between Vancouver and Toronto that collectively can transmit traffic at up to 10 Gbps. 

 ------ 

 Coyote Network Systems plans to deliver voice over Internet technology with company called e-tel to smart-card-enabled screen phones.  Coyote said it will start to roll out voice over IP systems in summer.  E-tel, which designs voice-over-IP phones, said it will provide Coyote with standards-based voice-over-IP solutions, including those for screen phones and digital subscriber lines. 

 ------ 

 Lucent dismissed as bogus message posted on Yahoo message board, fashioned after PRNewswire release, that company planned to issue warning on 2nd-quarter profit.  "It is a fake," company spokeswoman said, noting Lucent is working with Yahoo to investigate incident.  "We haven't changed our guidance, we don't plan to," she said.  Lucent early Thurs. became aware of false posting that appeared on message board late Wed. and has spoken to SEC about it, she said.  SEC Enforcement Dir. Richard Walker told us that Commission is looking into matter, but declined to elaborate.  Fabricated press release was first posted anonymously by someone using name hot_like_wasabe.  It contained made-up quote from Chmn.-CEO Richard McGinn and detailed lower-than-expected earnings per share for 2nd quarter of 14-17 cents.  "We have been in touch with Yahoo and we are working with them on having these references removed," Lucent spokeswoman said.  As of midafternoon, number of message board users had reposted original listing that appeared.  Despite buzz about faked release, Lucent shares rose 3.59% Thurs. to $64-7/8.  In Jan., Lucent issued actual earnings warning that results for first quarter would be lower than anticipated, in part due to delays in near-term manufacturing and in network deployments by some enterprise customers (CD Jan 7 p7). 

 ------ 

 Cellcross.com was founded by Michael Pascazi and Frank Zatrzeka to develop and deploy technology that will allow wireless phone traffic to travel over Internet.  Company is based on technology invented by Pascazi that founders said would enable wireless phone to call another phone anywhere in world by translating signal to IP, transmitting by Internet, then reconverting signal to complete call.  Pascazi said company plans to construct prototype network among 4 major cities around world within 6 months and already has prototype equipment operational at N.Y.C. hq. 

 ------ 

 MCI Worldcom asked Pa. PUC to "strengthen" current testing process for Bell Atlantic's operation support systems (OSS) being conducted by KPMG Peat Marwick to prevent situation such as arose after BA's long distance entry in N.Y. when faulty OSS software failed to generate electronic notices to CLECs on service order status.  MCIW said this was opportune time for addressing weaknesses of Pa. test program since volume OSS tests have been suspended while BA completes correction of flaws in its N.Y. OSS. MCIW said Pa. PUC should clarify that BA doesn't pass any OSS item red-flagged as exception by KPMG until BA completes its fix and its repair has been tested and passed. MCIW also wants PUC to require that BA retain KPMG to act as "expert referee" during first 6 months of commercial OSS operations after conclusion of OSS testing. 

Document comd000020010804dw3o00146




 U. Southern California: Investors forsake solidity for high potential 

943 words
23 March 2000
U-WIRE
UWIR
English
 (c) 2000 Copyright U-Wire. All Rights Reserved. 

 By Jaivin Karnani, Daily Trojan (U. Southern California) 

 LOS ANGELES -- The recent divergence in the stock markets between the Dow and the NASDAQ has caused investors to re-evaluate their portfolio positions in the aptly named "old-economy" stocks. 

 It appears that money is shifting from companies with solid earnings and revenues toward companies with higher potential earnings and revenues. The key word is potential. 

 With Procter & Gamble's profit warning two weeks ago, the 30 percent decline in the company's stock price caused the Dow to drop 374 points that day, wiping out nearly a year's worth of gains in the index. 

 Keep in mind that P&G will still rake in a little more than $3 billion in profits at the close of its fiscal year in June this year; however, the rate of profit growth is slowing down - a huge negative in this market - causing investors to dump the stock. 

 Investors are willing to pay high multiples for companies that are growing at a fast clip, even though their profits may not even closely reflect their respective market valuations. 

 So-called "new-economy" stocks, ranging from Ariba - a hot business-to-business e-commerce solutions provider - to Rambus - a designer of high-speed computer memory chips - are continuously drawing investor interest, prompting ever-increasing stock prices. These are companies with which most people are unfamiliar. 

 Companies such as AOL, Microsoft and Dell are now considered "value-plays," or stocks that are expected to increase earnings and revenues at a steady clip and are thus not assigned astronomical valuations. 

 This divergence is obvious in the performance of each index. As of yesterday's close, the Dow, an index of 30 stocks that are representative of the economy as a whole, is down 6 percent for the year, while the technology-laden NASDAQ index is up nearly 17 percent so far this year after a record-setting 87 percent gain last year. 

 The Dow has recovered from bear-market territory, which is typically defined as a drop of 20 percent or more in an index's value, in the last two weeks as investors shifted into cyclicals and value stocks. 

 The question "How is the market doing?" is a little difficult to answer with regards to this market environment. 

 On any given day so far this year, an increase in the NASDAQ has usually occurred with a simultaneous decrease in the Dow. 

 Nick Beams of wsws.org, an organization that provides analysis and commentary on international occurrences, said that "the speculation in technology and internet stocks has assumed a spiral-like character. 

 New money flowing into the market is directed to the technology stocks experiencing the biggest price (increases), pushing their values up even further and so attracting further new money as well as drawing investment away from "old economy" stocks. 

 "A profitable history as a private company is no longer necessary - but a salable story surely is," said Jim Griffin of TheStreet.com. "Stocks have become disassociated from the underlying businesses as market caps are, in the case of New Economy (stocks), at triple-digit multiples of earnings, or whatever metric substitutes in the case of no earnings whatever." 

 For the "old-economy" companies, however, many had seen their stocks fall to historically cheap relative valuations as the market discounted their strong earnings performances. 

 The types of stocks that rallied in the last week include cyclicals, consumer staples, financials and transports, which have shown terrible performance in the past year as hype and buzz were more important than earnings. 

 A number of factors have dragged the Dow lower this year. Chief among them are interest-rate jitters. The Federal Open Market Committee is expected to continue to increase interest rates by at least another 100 basis points, or 1.00 percent, to slow the economy down. 

 This, coming after another 25 basis point increase March 21, bringing the discount rate, or rates that banks charge each other, at 6.00 percent. Chairman Alan Greenspan stated that the Fed saw inflation as a continued threat, making it clear that further rate hikes are on the horizon. Higher interest rates make it more expensive for companies to borrow money, hurting corporate profits. 

 Another factor is the rapid increase in the price of crude oil in the past year to a record high of $34 per barrel, the highest since January 1991, before settling at around $31 per barrel Tuesday. Profit warnings from a number of the Dow's bell weather members, such as Xerox, IBM and now P&G, as well as legal problems relating to Phillip Morris, have caused investors to shift funds to technology stocks. 

 Market watchers, however, believed that the Dow was bound to rebound, as the NASDAQ would be unable to sustain further gains without help from the Dow. 

 This makes technology stocks susceptible to violent corrections. Last week's debacle on the NASDAQ showed the fickle nature of investors in actually holding such high-flying stocks. A few rumors on the extent on interest rate increases and profit shortfalls caused the NASDAQ to lose 10 percent of its value in three days. 

 Biotechnology stocks, high on promise and low on actual data, fared even worse, falling more than 50 percent from their recent highs. 

 However, these stocks still remain significantly above their lows for the year, and have recovered some of their luster in recent days. 

 It remains to be seen if the market, and namely the NASDAQ, will continue on its breakneck speed and how severe the bumps in the road will be. 

Document uwir000020010813dw3n00c6b


 Business 
 Nightly Business Report 

 Paul Kangas, Susie Gharib 
4,481 words
23 March 2000
23:30
Nightly Business Report
NBR
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 PAUL KANGAS, ANCHOR, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT: Rally ho! The Dow gains a whopping 253 points, the NASDAQ climbs 75, as promising news about Microsoft helps power both averages higher. Good evening, I`m Paul Kangas. 

 SUSIE GHARIB, ANCHOR, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT: And I`m Susie Gharib. Hello for me as well. Does Rupert Murdoch want to buy General Motors (GM)? That question and its answer revved up traders today. Then it`s almost certain that this man will be voted in as Russia`s next president on Sunday. We`ll look at Vladimir Putin`s chances to fix his country`s broken economy. 

 GHARIB: Good evening everyone. An explosive rally on Wall Street today. The Dow skyrocketed 253 points. The NASDAQ surged 75, and the S&P sizzled to a new record. All this, thanks to Microsoft (MSFT). The stock jumped 8 points or more than 8 percent on speculation that it`s close to settling its antitrust case with the government. Stephanie Woods has been following the story and joins us live from our Washington bureau. Stephanie. 

 STEPHANIE WOODS, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: Susie, after reports surfaced this morning that Microsoft and the Justice Department were nearing a settlement, lots of people started talking. Analysts and my sources say they would be surprised if a settlement can be reached, but Microsoft would only say negotiations are still ongoing. Investors are betting a deal can be worked out that`s good for Microsoft. Wall Street sent a signal today that it wants to see Microsoft kept intact. That outcome would be much less dramatic then a breakup of the company, and it can live with an agreement that forced Microsoft to change the way it does business, even if it means opening up the application source code. 

 ERIK OLBETER, INTERNET ANALYST, SCHWAB WASHINGTON RESEARCH: If they settle right now without a breakup of the company, with some restrictions moving forward, but nothing that really stops the business plan from moving forward, that stock has a lot of upside potential. 

 WOODS: Government prosecutors say a settlement is better than litigation, but a settlement would have to correct what the court has found to be anti-competitive behavior. I asked New York`s Attorney General Eliot Spitzer how far Microsoft would have to go to achieve that goal. 

 ELIOT SPITZER, ATTORNEY GENERAL, NEW YORK: Far enough, based on the record and what the Justice Department and the states believe is necessary to correct what has happened. 

 WOODS: But some sources tell me the Justice Department doesn`t really want to settle this case because they want a strong legal ruling from the judge that shows Microsoft was in the wrong. So from what I was able to dig up today, Susie, a settlement isn`t likely to happen overnight. 

 GHARIB: So, Stephanie, if there`s very little chances now of a settlement, then what happens? What`s next? 

 WOODS: Well, what`s next is Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson will come out with conclusions of law. Basically that`s a verdict that determines whether or not Microsoft`s behavior violated the antitrust rules. That ruling could come as soon as next week. 

 GHARIB: All right, so we`re going to be waiting to see what happens from all of that. Thank you very much, Stephanie. That`s Stephanie Woods reporting from our Washington bureau. 

 KANGAS: As hopes for a Microsoft settlement with the government rose early today, so did the stock market, with the Dow Industrial Average posting a 20-point gain, thanks largely to a four-point advance in Microsoft stock, which was also a major reason why the NASDAQ Index was up 49 points at 10:00 a.m. The early rally picked up momentum over the next three hours, aided by a five-point jump in General Motors stock reacting to a report that Newscorp (NWS) might make a buyout bid for GM in order to get control of its Hughes Electronics (GMH) satellite assets. But Newscorp strongly denied that report. On top of that, General Electric (GE) stock rose over seven points after Lehman Brothers Brokerage raised its target price to $200 per share. By 1:00 p.m. then, the Industrial Average was up 160 points, just above the 11,000 level, and the NASDAQ Index posted an 84-point gain. This impressive rally attracted more buyers from the sidelines in afternoon trading, and with added help of a firm bond market, the Dow Jones Industrial Average vaulted to a closing gain of 253.16 points, or 2.3 percent, at now stands at 11,119.86. In today`s 305-point range, the Dow closed down only 16 3/4 points from the very best level of the session. The NASDAQ Composite continues to close in on its last record of 5048, set just two weeks ago. Today up 75.86 points to 4940.61. In its 111-point trading range, the Composite settled only 35 points below its very best level of the day. 

 Big board volume, over a billion shares, but down just a touch from yesterday and have a lot more up volume than down volume, about a 7 to 4 ratio. 

 The Dow Transports up 69.11. 

 The Utility Index had a good day, rising nearly 2 points. 

 The Closing Tick neutral at -38. 

 Standard & Poor`s 500, another record high with that gain of nearly 26 3/4 points. 

 The 100 had a record with a gain of just over 21. 

 And the MidCap 400 with nearly a 2 1/2 point gain, also set a record high. 

 The Bridge Futures Price Index was down 1.13. 

 New York Stock Exchange Composite gained just over 9 points. 

 Over a 3 1/4 point rise in the Value Line. 

 Russell2000 up 2.60. 

 And the very broadly based Wilshire 5000, third straight day had a record high with that gain of nearly 213 points. 

 After the market closed the Federal Reserve reported in the week ending March 13th, the M-2 money supply rose $11.5 billion. 

 Longer term Treasury bonds rallied sharply early today in reaction to a Treasury official`s hint late yesterday that his department should rescind the line of credit it offers to Freddie Mac (FRE), Fannie Mae (FNM), and the Federal home loan system, making government-backed debt even more scarce. The rally stumbled briefly this afternoon when the Fed released the minutes of its February Federal Open Market Committee meeting, showing all governors in favor of raising rates, some by as much as 1/2 percent. Although this suggested more hikes in the pipeline, tax-free and corporates still managed to end up about 1/4 point higher on average, and most Treasuries closed higher except for the near terms. 

 The 5-year notes down 1/32. 

 The 10-year note rising 7/32. 

 Bellwether bond at 105 even with a yield of 5.89 percent, was up over 1 point. 

 And finally, the Lehman Brothers Long-Term Treasury Bond Index gained nearly 6 1/2 points. 

 I`ll be back shortly to show you where the action was on Wall Street today. Susie. 

 GHARIB: Well, Paul, as you know, stock market records and record profits from financial companies go hand in hand, and today was no exception. Morgan Stanley came out with blockbuster earnings today, way ahead of estimates. But can brokerage firms keep this up if interest rates keep going up? Scott Gurvey reports. 

 SCOTT GURVEY, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: Morgan Stanley Dean Witter`s earnings were, in the words of one analyst, "stellar." The nation`s second largest broker posted profits of $1.34 a share. The First Call consensus had forecast $1.06. Morgan Stanley`s profits came on the heels of better-than-expected first quarter reports from the online brokerage National Discount Brokers and investment giants Lehman Brothers and Goldman Sachs. The continuing stock market boom gets the credit for the surge in earnings for these financial sector companies. But what of the future? 

 DAVID BERRY, BANK ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS: There is an old Wall Street adage, "don`t fight the Fed." To date, the Fed seems to have had very little impact on a lot of the stock market. But at the end of the day, they have very powerful levers under way, so certainly the risk out there would be higher rates. And at some point, that`s having an impact on poor equity markets and a less conducive environment for equity trading and underwriting. 

 GURVEY: Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan has made it clear he would like to see a less conducive environment for equity trading. Higher interest rates would cool the economy. And that should produce a drop in consumer spending. That might hit Morgan Stanley, which reported a record level of charges from its Discover credit card business in the just-ended quarter. But it is not clear that higher rates would curb the stock market. The so-called "new economy" companies tend to use stock rather than debt to finance their growth. And most of the financial sector profits are come from stock trading activity, money management, and new offerings, the bread and butter of the investment banks. 

 STEVEN EISMAN, BROKERAGE INDUSTRY ANALYST, CIBC WORLDMARKETS: To me, raising rates is just not going to do it because the cycle, at least here in the US, is being driven by technology companies. And you`re typical technology company doesn`t have any debt, so raising rates doesn`t impact them. The only thing that I can see that ends the party is if the Fed raises margin requirements. Barring that, the party goes on. 

 GURVEY: The Federal Reserve hasn`t changed initial margin requirements since 1974. Then it lowered them from 65 to the current 50 percent. Scott Gurvey, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, New York. 

 KANGAS: A strike is looming at US Airways (U). At midnight tomorrow, 10,000 flight attendants could walk off the job. Flight attendants are already walking informational picket lines. Differences over pay remain at the heart of the ongoing contract negotiations. The carrier has said it will shut down rather than undergo the service disruptions caused by a strike. 

 GHARIB: With elections in Russia set for Sunday, it looks like acting President Vladimir Putin is a shoe-in for the job. From Moscow, reporter David McGuffin looks at what his new regime would mean for Russia`s shaky economy. 

 DAVID MCGUFFIN, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: Safe in the knowledge that he`s already sewed up Russia`s presidential elections, Vladimir Putin isn`t running campaign ads. But then he never really needed to. State television has made sure he gets lots of air time. And of interest to those who have invested in Russia, he`s used a few of his public appearances to discuss his vision for Russia`s economy. 

 VLADIMIR PUTIN, ACTING PRESIDENT, RUSSIA: Of course the elections are an important event in our country, but I`d like to point out no matter who wins in this election, there will be no interest in breaking our relations with Western investors. 

 MCGUFFIN: For Western investors there are some positive noises coming from put Putin, promises of a new manageable tax code and tax cut, the introduction of an enforceable bankruptcy law and legislation strengthening shareholder rights. 

 SCOTT BLACKLYN, PRESIDENT, AMERICAN CHAMBER OF COMMERCE/RUSSIA: I don`t want to overstate this because Russia is no stranger to catastrophe. 

 MCGUFFIN: The president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Russia says he sees some reason for optimism. 

 BLACKLYN: We are given to believe that this new government would be very serious about creating a civil society where laws are carefully made, where the regulations implementing those laws are carefully considered, where enforcement is attended to and therefore businesses can begin to measure and manage their risk. 

 MCGUFFIN: For foreign investors, like Russian voters, one reason to hope for a sunnier economic future here is simply because Vladimir Putin is not Boris Yeltsin. Certainly that has been the reaction at the Russian stock exchange. When the aged and sickly Yeltsin resigned on New Year`s Eve, appointing Putin as his successor, the market here jumped 30 percent. Since then, it has continued to rise another 25 percent. Part of this growth is due to high oil prices, a commodity Russia has lots of. But according to this senior economist, it is also because there is the perception that, unlike Yeltsin, Putin is a leader who can get things done. 

 ROLAND NASH, VICE PRESIDENT RESEARCH, RENAISSANCE CAPITAL/MOSCOW: He`s certainly been somebody who has been both decisive and been able to implement the decisions that he`s made and I`m talking about Chechnya, I`m talking about the parliamentary elections, he won them basically, and to get himself elected president. So the three major, major objectives that he`s had he`s actually managed to achieve. 

 MCGUFFIN: Putin is also seen as soft on Western ideals like free speech, something that was highlighted by the recent detention of Radio Liberty war correspondent Andre Babitski , who the Kremlin claimed had a pro-Chechen bias. But in a country where millions have been thrown into poverty since the Soviet Union`s collapse, these are concerns that many here seem willing to overlook in the hope that a Putin regime will pay off with better times ahead. David McGuffin, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, Moscow. 

 KANGAS: Not much poverty on Wall Street today, the bulls firmly in control once again. The Dow the stellar performer, up 253 points or 2.3 percent. And the broader market nicely higher, for every 18 stocks higher about 12 lower. And 99 new highs for the year versus only 37 new lows. Compaq Computer (CPQ) topped the active list on a hefty 44 million shares, down 2 9/16. There were just rumors circulating the company may be coming out with an earnings warning, but no substantiation of that at all. 

 Lucent Technologies (LU) up 2 3/16. Yesterday it was down 4 1/4 on what turned out to be a fake press release on the Internet that the company was going to have an earnings warning today. Lucent actually said it expects to meet Wall Street earnings estimates of $0.22 a share for the second quarter. Sun Life (SLC), when issued, this is a Canadian financial company that went public on the big board today. A hundred and forty-three million shares offered at 8 1/2, moved up 7/8. 

 Citigroup up almost 3 points. "Heard On the Street" column in today`s "Wall Street Journal" says Citigroup is getting a bargain by purchasing the stock of Travelers Property & Casualty it doesn`t already own at a price of $41.50. 

 America Online (AOL) was down 9/16, fifth in volume. 

 Philip Morris (MO) edged an 1/8 higher. 

 And there you see General Motors (GM) up 5 1/4 on that report that News Corp. might make a buyout bid to get the Hughes Electronics` satellite assets. 

 AT&T (T) moved up 7/8. 

 Tyco International (TYC) rising 15/16. 

 And Pfizer (PFE), 10th in volume, fell 3/8. 

 Delta Air Lines (DAL) up 2 5/8, helped along by a drop in May oil futures in New York of $0.15, down to $27.31 a barrel. 

 FedEx Corp. (FDX) up 2 3/4, the company in with lower third quarter earnings, $0.37, down from $0.44 last year. But that was $0.03 better than the Street expected. 

 And General Electric (GE) near a record high, rising 8 1/2 points. Lehman Brothers out today with an upgrade from "outperform" to "buy" and set a $200 a share target on the stock. 

 GM Hughes (GMH) itself up 11 7/16 on those News Corp. Rumors. 

 News Corp. (NWS) fell 1 3/4. 

 Then Scientific Atlanta (SFA) up over 17 points after Soundview Financial repeated a "strong buy" and increased its price target on the stock to $200 a share. Galileo International (GLC) up 5 5/8. The company is launching a new wholly owned telecom unit that it calls Quantitude. Very positive reaction to that news. 

 And REX Stores (RSC) up 5 1/8, big fourth quarter earnings, $0.97, up from last year`s $0.79. that was $0.12 above the Street estimate. 

 Toll Brothers (TOL), the home builder, up 2 13/16. Salomon Smith Barney began covering the stock with a "buy" recommendation. UnumProvident (UNM), one of those insurance companies, up 1 1/2. The "Heard On the Street" column, as I mentioned, suggested there could be a pick up in insurance company take-overs. 

 Varco International (VRC) down 2 1/2 points. The company`s going to merge with Tuboscope (TBI) for a little over 7/10 of a share. Today that`s a value of only about $12. A little over that disappearing, obviously. The surviving company will be Varco International. 

 And EW Blanch Holdings (EWB) down another 2 5/8. On Tuesday that stock dropped 34 points on the company`s forecast of much lower than expected first quarter earnings. 

 NASDAQ trading, a gain of 75.86 or 1.6 percent. Volume was down 55 million shares from yesterday, 21 stocks up for every 20 down. 

 Microsoft (MSFT) topped the active list, up 8 5/8 on the news you heard. And Cisco (CSCO) up 5 5/8 for a while briefly today. Cisco, when it was near 79 had a bigger capitalization than Microsoft, making it the largest interest country. 

 Intel (INTC) was down 1 7/16. 

 QUALCOMM (QCOM) gained 9 1/4. 

 Oracle (ORCL) rising 2 13/16. 

 And we see JDS Uniphase (JDSU) up 3 13/16. 

 MicroStrategy (MSTR), after getting clobbered earlier in the week, bouncing back 29 points. Sun Microsystems (SUNW) up just over 1 point. 

 Yahoo (YHOO) fell 6 3/16. 

 And MCI WorldCom (WCOM) down 3/4, 10th in big board volume. 

 BreezeCOM.Ltd (BRZE) went public today. It`s an Israeli manufacturer of wireless access products. Five million shares offered at 20, opened at 38. The high of the day 42 1/16. 

 Blaze Software (BLZE) was on fire, too, up 11 3/4, four million share offering at 16, opened at 35, the high of the day 39. 

 RCM Technologies (RCMT) down 3 13/16. The company is out with a first quarter profit warning. It says earnings will come in around $0.15 to $0.18. The Street was looking for $0.30 a share. 

 The American Exchange Index at a record high with that gain of just over 6 points. 

 Rio Algorn Ltd. (ROM) up 2 3/8. Takeover talk there. Reuters says they may have suitors like Miranda (MAD.V), Phelps Dodge (PD) or Falconbridge (FL.TO). 

 And FuelCell Energy (FCL) up 13 1/8. The company`s in a pact with Marro Beanie of Japan for the first commercial field trials in Asia of this company`s fuel cell power plant. 

 And finally, the Index Shares all nice gainers, multiple points. 

 And that`s the Wall Street Wrap up. Susie? 

 GHARIB: OK, what a wrap up it was. Higher interest rates are helping businesses at LENDINGTREE (TREE). From the "Business Week" forum of chief financial officers, Jeff Yastine talked with CFO Keith Hall, who says LENDINGTREE benefits from not actually doing the lending. 

 KEITH HALL, CEO, LENDINGTREE: It`s a common misperception that we provide loans and we take the credit risk of those loans. But actually, LENDINGTREE does not do lender per se. We`re an online loan marketplace. And like a marketplace or an exchange, we bring the buyers and sellers together. The lenders- we have over 100 lenders on our network-we match with the consumers that come in through our Web site and other sources to help them close loans through the Internet. 

 JEFF YASTINE, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: You`re really a software company or a company that creates electronic exchanges? 

 HALL: We`ve created an exchange and provide benefits to consumers as well as the lenders. But also we sell our marketplace technology as a business to business proposition, which represented about 25 percent of our revenue in 1999. Where the consumer comes into our marketplace, we offer the convenience of seeking a loan online as opposed to the traditional method of going around town looking from place to place for a loan. For the lenders, we provide as incremental volume at a cost that represents anywhere from a 50 to 75 percent discount versus traditional methods such as through a broker and also we provide constant marketplace feedback. 

 YASTINE: How does LENDINGTREE make money and does LENDINGTREE intend to make money, as sometimes doesn`t appear to be the case always with other Internet firms? 

 HALL: We`re free to the consumer and earn all of our fees from the lenders on the network. Our two largest fees are what we call a transmit fee and a closing fee. The transmit fee, which is much smaller, is what we earn when we send the loan request to the lenders on the network. We say that we`ll send that to up to four lenders so we earn multiple transmit fees for every customer coming in. We earn a much larger fee when the loan is subsequently closed. Because we do not do the loan closing itself, which has traditionally been a very labor intensive process, we don`t have to add people as our revenue grows. 

 YASTINE: How well is this business model working for LENDINGTREE? 

 HALL: The value of the loans closed on our network have exceeded $1 billion. Two thirds of that has happened in the second half of 1999 during a period of higher interest rates. One of the concerns or the questions that we`ve heard from potential investors was how could interest rates impact your business? What we`re seeing is consumers are becoming more aggressive in their shopping for a loan as interest rates increase. Likewise, lenders are experiencing lower demand through their traditional channels, so they are becoming more aggressive online in their pricing. In fact, during the first 60 days of 2000, we recently announced how our volume on our site exceeded our record fourth quarter of 1999. So you can see that even in this period of rising interest rates, the demand is increasing significantly on our network. 

 YASTINE: We`ll end it there then. Mr. Hall, thank you very much. 

 HALL: Thanks again, Jeff. 

 YASTINE: Our guest, Keith Hall, Chief Financial Officer at LENDINGTREE. 

 KANGAS: Tomorrow, our market monitor guest is David Elias, Chief Investment Officer at Elias Asset Management. 

 GHARIB: Bausch & Lomb (BOL) and Wesley Jessen (WJCO) could soon be seeing eye to eye. Bausch offered today to buy Jessen, which makes colored contact lenses. The price, $600 million. But a previous deal could blindside this new one. Wesley Jessen says it`s still committed to buying Ocular Sciences (OCLR) and Bausch is only interested in Jessen. Jessen`s stock gained almost 9 points to 33 7/16 but Bausch & Lomb fell 3/4 to 55 5/8. KANGAS: First it was the new $100, then the $50 and the $20. Now the Treasury is unveiling its new $10 bill. The new, like the old, features a portrait of Alexander Hamilton, but it also has several new security features like color shifting ink to help prevent counterfeiting. The new 10s will hit the street this summer; new fives and ones to follow next year. 

 GHARIB: Interest rates are topic number one this week, but not just on Wall Street. Here`s tonight`s commentator, Alice Rivlin, Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution and former Co-Chair of the Federal Reserve. 

 ALICE RIVLIN: The Federal Reserve`s small interest rate hike this week was a central banking no brainer. The U.S. economy, spurred by eager consumers with rising wealth and income, has been galloping at an unsustainable pace. Another gentle tug on the monetary reins was clearly in order. The Fed will keep tugging until the economic horse slows to a sustainable trot. By contrast, the European central bank`s recent increase seems bizarre. Growth in the major continental countries is far less robust than ours. Unemployment exceeds 9 percent. Young people have a tough time finding jobs. Why would the Fed`s counterparts act to slow things down? The answers are peculiarly European. First, Europe`s central bankers believe unemployment is largely caused by social benefits and reluctance of workers to move. They believe that the faster growth that has created so many jobs in the U.S. would only bring them inflation. Second, European central bankers still have a small country perspective, in which a strong currency is a matter of pride and a bulwark against inflation. They haven`t figured out that they are in charge of a large continental economy where trade is heavily internal and putting idle resources to work is more important than currency value. Right now, central bankers on this side of the Atlantic have a far stronger case for tightening. I`m Alice Rivlin. KANGAS: Recapping today`s market action, the bull runs again. The Dow gains 253 points, the NASDAQ Index is up 75. And please join us at our World Wide Web site, NBR.com, or on America Online, keyword NBR. 

 GHARIB: And that wraps it up for us. That`s NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT for this Thursday, March 23rd. I`m Susie Gharib. Good night, everyone. 

 KANGAS: And I`m Paul Kangas wishing all of you the best of good buys. 

 Nightly Business Report transcripts are available on-line post-broadcast. The program is transcribed by FDCH. Updates may be posted at a later date. 

 The views of our guests and commentators are their own and do not necessarily represent the views of Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. Nightly Business Report, or WPBT. 

 Information presented on Nightly Business Report is not and should not be considered as investment advice. 

 c2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. 

 END 

 TO PURCHASE A VIDEOTAPE OF THIS PIECE, PLEASE CALL  888-266-3601 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc.  Formatting and transcription copyright 2000 eMediaMillWorks, Inc.  (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No quotes from the materials contained herein may be used in any media without attribution to Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. This transcript may not be copied or resold in any media. 

Document nbr0000020010808dw3n0001n




 Bogus Press Release Sparked False Rumors Of Lucent  Profit Warning 

423 words
23 March 2000
21:35
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Lucent Technologies Inc. denied rumors making the rounds on Internet message boards this week that it is about to issue a second-quarter profit warning. 

 Lucent (LU), the most widely held U.S. stock, saw its shares rebound Thursday after sliding $4.375, or 6.5%, to close Wednesday at $62.625. 

 Market watchers pegged Wednesday's dropoff to Internet bulletin board and chat room rumors and a bogus company press release posted on a Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) message board indicating that the telecommunications-equipment giant would miss analysts' estimates for the quarter ending March 31, Dow Jones Newswires reported. 

 A Lucent spokesman told Dow Jones Newswires that the Murray Hill, N.J., company doesn't plan to alter its guidance for the second quarter. 

 The mean estimate of 29 analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial was for Lucent to report earnings of 22 cents a share. 

 By Thursday afternoon, message boards were filled with postings not to heed the gossip. A poster on a CNBC board admonished colleagues, saying, "I sincerely hope the rest of you resisted jumping on this hogwash." 

 Lucent stunned investors in January with a first-quarter profitwarning, spurring a big sell-off in its shares. 

 Pranks like the fake Lucent press release aren't new and unless detected and squashed quickly can spark great gyrations in a company's stock price. Last April, PairGain Technologies Inc., a telecom-equipment company being acquired by ADC Telecommunications Inc., was the victim of a Yahoo! Internet message-board hoax involving a false news story that said Pairgain was about to be purchased by ECI Telecom Ltd. 

 In that case, a posting headlined "BUYOUT NEWS" directed investors to what appeared to be a news article on a Web site identified as Bloomberg.com. PairGain 's shares took off on heavy volume on the Nasdaq Stock Market, and rose 32% at one point. When investors learned that the posting was bogus, the stock shed most of its gains. 

 Federal Bureau of Investigation agents later charged Gary Dale Hoke, a Raleigh, N.C., employee of PairGain, with perpetrating the hoax and scheming to defraud investors. Bloomberg LP, meanwhile, filed trademark-infringement suits in New York listing five "John Does" -- identified by their Internet pseudonyms -- who had posted the bogus story and then spread the word on other bulletin boards. 

 (Compiled from Dow Jones Newswires and other sources) 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dw3n01b2m




 N.Y. Stocks: Investors Cautious Ahead Of Fed Meeting 

396 words
20 March 2000
15:50
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 WSJ.com Roundup 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Blue-chips shares were up slightly Monday as investors approached the market with caution before a meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee Tuesday. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 82 to 10677 after falling 35.37 Friday. On the New York Stock Exchange, 1,222 issues advanced, 1,020 declining and 572 unchanged on volume of 175 million shares. 

 The Nasdaq Composite Index shed 12.60 to 4785.50 after climbing 80.74 on Friday to 4798.13. The S&P 500 added 5.10 to 1469.60, while the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index slipped 2.40 to 635.30. 

 Market watchers widely expect policymakers to raise interest rates by another quarter-point, but investors remained anxious nonetheless. But economic data released over the last few weeks have suggested that the booming U.S. economy is finally showing signs of slowing after four credit tightenings over the last year. That outlook would allow the Fed to depart from its aggressive efforts to slow the economy. 

 MicroStrategy dropped more than half, by 117 1/8 to 109 5/8. The Vienna, Va., software company said it will reduce its 1999 results to a loss of between 43 cents and 51 cents a diluted share from previously reported operating income of 15 cents a share. The company will restate 1999 revenue to between $150 million and $155 million from $205.3 million. 

 National Commerce Bancorp slid 1 5/8 to 18 1/16 on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The Memphis, Tenn., company said it agreed to combine with Durham, N.C., CCB Financial in a stock deal valued at around $1.95 billion. Shareholders of CCB will get a premium for their shares and own 47% of the combined company, with the rest owned by shareholders of National Commerce. CCB shares gained 1 7/8 to 40 7/16. 

 Carnival rose 1 1/16 to 22 15/16. The Miami cruise-line company recovered slightly after its shares dropped 17% Friday after issuing a profit warning for the fiscal second-quarter. 

 Boeing sank 1 7/16 to 36 9/16. The Seattle aerospace giant's striking engineers and technical workers approved a new contract Sunday, ending one of the biggest white-collar walkouts in the country's history. 

Document dj00000020010805dw3k0181v




 Perspective 
 SUNDAY SAMPLER 

FROM OUR NEWS SERVICES
477 words
19 March 2000
The Atlanta Journal - The Atlanta Constitution
ATJC
Home
G; 3
English
 (Copyright, The Atlanta Journal and Constitution - 2000) 

 "This is supposed to be an accurate count? They can't even get this right." 

 --- Marlene Elkins of Marietta, who received two U.S. Census forms. 

 "So when your census form comes, fill it out and mail it in. Or Georgia money will be educating New York children for another 10 years." 

 --- Gov. Roy Barnes, in a TV ad warning against a repeat of the 1990 Georgia undercount. 

 "This certainly is groundbreaking. I think it really sets a moral as well as a legislative example for the rest of the country." 

 --- Gay rights advocate Peg Byron after the Vermont House approved legislation that would create the closest thing to gay marriage America has ever seen. 

 "The image now is that something crazy happened in paradise. Something like this, of course, it's going to hurt business." 

 --- Ed Oliver, a tour operator in Costa Rica, about fears that the murder of two U.S. women may damage the image of the country that has been called "the Switzerland of Central America." 

 "I believe there's evidence of an intruder, and I believe people should still be looking for him." 

 --- Lou Smith, a former homicide investigator on the JonBenet Ramsey investigation. 

 "Recognizing the deviations of the past serves to reawaken our consciences to the compromises of the present." 

 --- Pope John Paul II, repenting for the errors of his church over the past 2,000 years. 

 "I once got a lifetime membership to the NRA. I think it's been revoked now." 

 --- President Clinton on his long-running dispute with the National Rifle Association. 

 "Has he looked into the eyes of Ricky Byrdsong's family? Because that blood is on his hands." 

 --- NRA executive Wayne LaPierre blaming Clinton for the 1999 shooting death of a Northwestern University basketball coach by a white supremacist who had failed a Brady law background check but had not been arrested. 

 "Even Inspector Clouseau could find last year's guilty party: your chairman." 

 --- Warren Buffett, the world's most famous investor, taking the blame for his company Berkshire Hathaway's trailing stock market performance in 1999. 

 "The best thing I got out of that was maybe it finally showed you people in the media that not everyone is against me." 

 --- Atlanta Brave John Rocker on the standing ovation that greeted his return to the pitcher's mound after he was suspended for inflammatory comments. 

 "Most of all I am going to miss Sunday afternoons." 

 --- Dan Marino, the most prolific passer in NFL history, announcing his retirement from the Miami Dolphins after a 17-year career. 

 "We must ensure the profits of human genome research are measured not in dollars but in the betterment of human life." 

 --- President Clinton, warning against private companies looking to profit from early discoveries in the race to map the basic human genetic code. 

Document atjc000020010803dw3j00a9x




 Report on Business: Net Worth 
 Is the Dow out of the dumps? At one time, the large consumer stocks of the Dow were one-decision investments. But, despite a comeback this week, these Dow darlings have had a tough year. 

 ANDREW BELL 
Investment Reporter
3,316 words
18 March 2000
The Globe and Mail
GLOB
Metro
N1
English
 All material copyright Thomson Canada Limited or its licensors. All rights reserved. 

 This was the week that the empires struck back. 

 We're talking about the legendary global consumer-products stocks of the Dow Jones industrial average, names such as Coca-Cola Co. and Merck & Co. Inc. that were once the unsinkable luxury cruisers of investing. 

 Beaten and bruised in 2000, the traditional names rallied sharply midweek as investors moved out of inflated technology stocks. That was enough to lift the Dow through the psychological 10,000 mark again after it slipped below the benchmark earlier this year. From Monday through midday Thursday, the venerable index rose 6 per cent as the tech-stuffed Nasdaq composite index tumbled 10 per cent. 

 Until this week, stocks like Coke were beached whales, with most down at least 15 per cent so far this year as investors abandoned "old economy" grande dames in favour of cyber-babes such as Cisco Systems Inc. (up about 20 per cent this year) and JDS Uniphase Corp. (up 50 per cent). 

 Consumer stocks are "frankly an area of the market that very few people care about right now," sighs John Porter, manager of the $37-million Fidelity Focus Consumer Industries Fund for Fidelity Investments Canada Ltd. His fund, stuffed with Dow stocks such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Procter & Gamble Co., is down about 14 per cent this year. 

 The flight from consumer giants turned into a rout on March 7 when shares in 160-year-old detergent giant Procter & Gamble fell almost 31 per cent, an incredible drop for one of America's biggest and most stable companies, after P&G warned of disappointing earnings. Within minutes, $36-billion (U.S.) was wiped off the value of investors' holdings. 

 Such debacles have "chipped away at the fountain of belief" in reliable and steady global consumer shares, Mr. Porter says. 

 For uneasy U.S. observers, the fall of once-mighty stocks has been akin to the extinction of a species of dinosaurs. 

 "Countless bedrock American investors . . . have undergone a transformation in recent months," The Wall Street Journal said this week, announcing what it called a "tectonic shift" in attitudes. "People have changed their definition of a blue-chip stock." 

 The big fear: Global consumer-brand companies can't keep increasing their profits at up to 20 per cent a year as they did in the past decade. 

 "In the case of companies like Coke, Gillette and McDonald's, the rapid globalization of the 1980s and early 1990s created stunning earnings records. But that rapid growth was a onetime thing," Money Magazine columnist Michael Sivy warns at www.money.com. "Once you've got McDonald's outlets in every country and all the men in Poland own twin-blade razors, the annual growth rate begins to drop back toward the norm for top-of-the-line consumer products . . . say around 14 per cent." 

 But these are still companies with sprawling worldwide corporate empires, sales in the tens of billions of dollars and magic brands that would be impossible to recreate. 

 And, best of all, for investors nervous about a violent downturn in the stock market, they are still high-quality "defensive" holdings. That means they have earnings that won't vanish altogether if the global economy slides into a recession (demolishing cyclical and resource stocks) or if inflated financial assets collapse (crushing banks.) 

 The major criticism of the consumer giants has been their relatively sluggish profitability in recent years. So, in an effort to find out which may be the best bets, we checked the 10 Dow consumer stocks for five vital growth signs. First, we looked at their 10-year record of boosting sales, earnings and dividends. (After all, only thriving companies tend to raise their payouts to shareholders.) 

 To see how well they used investors' money, we ranked the companies by return on shareholders' equity. And, lastly, to assess their global reach, we looked for the proportion of sales booked outside the United States. 

 Merck 

 The best performer in our survey was drug giant Merck of Whitehouse Station, N.J., a 1990s darling that was a quality growth name in virtually every portfolio. For good reason: It was near the top in our survey for both profit growth over the decade and return on equity. 

 The shares, though, have slid to about $64 from $87 last March, trading this week at only 23 times this year's earnings -- that's lower than the multiple of about 26 that investors were paying for the stocks in the Standard & Poor's 500-share index. 

 Blame a shortage of glittering new drugs from the company to work investors into a froth. "Merck's near-term pipeline is relatively bare," gripes Value Line Inc. analyst George Rho. And threats of Medicare reform loom as an aging U.S. population squeals for relief from huge health costs, potentially hurting Merck's margins. 

 But the stock has its fans. Merck "offers investors an uncommon value," Edward Jones analyst Bob Kirby said in a report last month, when the stock traded at a much-higher $75. "Given Merck's broad product line and its ability to bring drugs to market, we rate Merck as a 'strong buy' for long-term investors." Philip Morris 

 The next best performer over the past decade was a tainted one: Cigarette giant Philip Morris Cos. Inc. of New York, whose shares have collapsed to $20 from $43 last summer and $60 in 1998. 

 It traded this week at a fantastically low five times this year's earnings, offering an unbelievable dividend yield of 10 per cent. But there are hurricane clouds hanging over the shares in the form of endlessly expanding lawsuits stemming from the health damage caused by tobacco. "The company's results are secondary at this juncture," Value Line's Perry Roth concludes. "We advise most investors to stay on the sidelines." 

 Philip Morris has huge non-tobacco operations, including Kraft foods and Miller beer, that account for almost 60 per cent of its sales. Its shares have fallen so hard that buyers are now getting the cigarette business for free, Money's Mr. Sives notes. 

 However, he warns, "when a company's business grows so repugnant to so many people that it becomes a political target, the stock becomes too risky to be a blue-chip investment no matter how good the numbers are." 

 Wal-Mart, Home Depot 

 The next two strongest growers were both retailers, Wal-Mart Stores Inc. of Bentonville, Ark., and Home Depot Inc. of Atlanta. Their shares have sagged about 20 per cent and 12 per cent, respectively, in 2000 as higher interest rates threaten to crimp consumer spending, especially on big-ticket items. 

 "We have to see a peaking in interest rates before investors are willing to jump back into them," cautions Sam Stovall, senior investment strategist at Standard & Poor's Corp. in New York. 

 However, both giant chains are still trading at rich multiples of this year's profit: 38 times for Wal-Mart, whose shares changed hands at $54 this week, and 49 times for Home Depot. 

 Home Depot "is still trading at an enormous multiple that will be very difficult to sustain over the three- to five-year pull," Value Line analyst Carrie Galeotafiore warned earlier this year, when the stock traded at $62, compared with its price of $60 this week. Coca-Cola 

 Next, Atlanta-based Coca-Cola, the most famous consumer giant of them all. It topped our survey when it came to global exposure, racking up an impressive 62 per cent of its sales outside the United States. For most of the 1990s, the stock seemed to be an unstoppable juggernaut as the company's return on equity (ROE) climbed as high as 57 per cent. (Last year, though, weak global markets and a rising U.S. dollar held ROE to 32.5 per cent.) At the peak of investors' adulation, in 1998, Coke traded at $80, more than 50 times its earnings. 

 The stock traded at $49 late this week, down from $70 last May. At current prices, though, it's still fetching at a healthy multiple of about 34 times this year's profit. That's pretty rich for a company expected to boost earnings 35 per cent in the next two years. 

 Still, Deutsche Bank Alex. Brown analyst Scott Wilkins says Coke's time has finally come. He called it a "strong buy" in a report on Feb. 29, arguing that management has finally bitten the bullet on costs with a plan to write off $1.6-billion worth of assets, and slash the company's work force by one-fifth. "The worst news has passed," Mr. Wilkins reckons. 

 Johnson & Johnson 

 Also in the middle of the pack for growth over the past decade: Health-care giant Johnson & Johnson of New Brunswick, N.J. 

 The company's shares are down about 14 per cent this year. They traded this week at $79, a multiple of only 24 times 2000 earnings, representing an apparent bargain price for a stock that traditionally fetches a fat premium. 

 "Short-sighted" investors have forgotten that J&J is now the second-biggest biotechnology company through its Centocor subsidiary, Edward Jones analyst Sarah Ross says. "We think it's one of the better values right now in the health-care area." 

 The company is fantastically diversified, selling everything from Tylenol and Band-Aids to spinal implants and psychiatric drugs. Global sales account for almost half of its business. That diversity, and a fortress-like balance sheet, mean "this is one of only a handful of companies in the United States that have a triple-A credit rating," Edward Jones' Ms. Ross says. Procter & Gamble 

 Then there's battered P&G, whose shares have slid a vicious 45 per cent this year, shot down in flames by this month's profit warning. The stock traded this week at a bare-bones multiple of 18 times this year's profit. However, by Thursday, they had rallied to $60 from less than $53 on March 10. 

 People can only buy so much detergent, which means the company has been a relatively slow grower over the past decade in terms of sales and earnings. Also squeezing profit: The increasing power of ever-larger supermarket chains to demand huge discounts from branded-goods manufacturers. 

 Still, Cincinnati-based P&G is a truly global name, earning high marks in our survey for booking almost half of sales outside the U.S. market. It's still the world's biggest seller of diapers, tampons and baby wipes, liquid and powder detergent and fabric softeners. 

 It's "too early to buy" the stock, Prudential analyst Andrew Shore warned in a report this week. "Until earnings momentum is restored, which we believe could be another one or two quarters away, we believe that P&G shares are unlikely to do much better than the market." 

 But he argued that P&G remains "the most visionary consumer non-durable company in the world" with "the greatest understanding of consumers." 

 Eastman Kodak 

 Next: Eastman Kodak Co., one of the Dow's worst hounds and still a stock for resolute bargain hunters. Shares in the world's bigger maker of photo products bumped along at $59 this week, a miserable 11 times 2000 earnings, down from more than $89 in early 1997. Blame declining sales in 1997 and 1998 as rival Fuji Photo Film Co. Ltd. of Japan scythed into the company's U.S. market share. 

 But quite a few analysts think Kodak's turnaround is finally happening. "The price of Eastman Kodak's stock hasn't reflected the company's recent progress," Value Line's Raymond Cowen said in a report late last year. 

 Criticism of Kodak has focused on the company's slow progress in consumer digital photography and on the Internet. But Prudential analyst Alexander Henderson says Kodak has in fact been working quietly and effectively on digital and Internet products for commercial and medical imaging. Investors and Wall Street are in for a surprise, he said in a March 2 report. "Kodak is much further down the Internet learning curve than most analysts realize." 

 For example, Mr. Henderson said, Kodak is building a Web-based system to reduce waste in its $1-billion cinema film business, where demand and orders are subject to huge swings as individual movies become hits or turkeys. McDonald's 

 McDonald's Corp.,based in Oak Brook, Ill., has long been one of America's favourite stocks, boasting almost 900,000 shareholders. But the company has had trouble expanding its sales and profits in recent years as overseas markets stagnated, particularly in the developing world. Saturated markets in the United States and Europe have forced it to bet heavily on risky territories such as Brazil. 

 The company's relatively slow growth left it near the bottom of our survey -- investors aren't exactly jubilant either, paying a modest 21 times earnings for the stock this week. The shares traded at $33, down about 20 per cent in a year. 

 Analysts reckon that the company's profit will rise only about 12 per cent in 2000. "Based on our long-term earnings scenario, [the shares'] three- to five-year appreciation potential is already reflected in the current stock price," Value Line's Maurice Levenson sniffed in a report late last year. Walt Disney 

 Finally, Walt Disney Co. of Burbank, Calif., which came last in our survey in part because its profit has grown slowly over the past decade. 

 Analysts point to the host of new competitors in the family entertainment business, a realm once ruled by Disney. Meanwhile, the company's sheer size makes it impossible for any one hit movie or theme park to have a major impact on profit. Return on equity came in at a wretched 6.6 per cent last year, in part an accounting effect resulting from the 1996 merger with broadcaster Capital Cities/ABC. "The company has simply stopped growing," Fortune Magazine grumbled last year. 

 Still, Disney stock has been the only decent performer among the old-guard Dow consumer names this year. As of Thursday, it was up 16 per cent this year and ahead 50 per cent since October, trading at $34 for a fat multiple of 47 times this year's earnings. 

 That's because investors are becoming increasingly confident that Disney will eventually get its Internet strategy right, successfully marrying television and the Web just as the company has combined diverse forms of entertainment in the past, says Warburg Dillon Read analyst Kurt Billick. "It has a new-economy shine to it." But it'll be a while before the gleam returns to most consumer stocks, says Mr. Porter, the Fidelity fund manager. 

 In fact, he warns that companies such as Coke may have just one shot left -- and could lose their allure forever if they can't get earnings growing again soon at the rates seen in the 1990s. 

 "As the emerging economies recover, which is happening today, those companies need to start delivering robust growth in those emerging economies," he says. 

 "I would argue if you do not see very attractive growth in Latin America, Asia or Eastern Europe in the next 12 months from the likes of Coke and Gillette, then they never will again deserve to trade at the multiples that they once had." 

 CHEAP IS A RELATIVE CONCEPT 

 A word of warning. Are these blue-chip consumer companies screaming buys at their current depressed prices? No -- at least in relation to their rather modest growth prospects. 

 "S&P earnings growth is approaching 20 per cent a year," says John Porter, manager of the Fidelity Focus Consumer Industries Fund. 

 "That is three times the historical long-term rate . . . [which means] the typical consumer stock, which delivers 12- to 15-per-cent earnings growth, looks not particularly attractive." 

 McDonald's Corp., for example, traded this week at $33, a sober 21 times its projected earnings of $1.57 this year. That's a lot less than the multiple of about 26 times this year's earnings that investors were paying for the stocks in the Standard & Poor's 500-share index. 

 But McDonald's is expected to boost its profit by only around 12 per cent this year, about half the growth expected from the companies in the S&P 500. 

 Now take chip giant Intel Corp., which changed hands this week at 42 times its projected earnings for 2000. The company, however, is expected to boost its earnings by a mighty 25 per cent this year. 

 Analysts compare the price of stocks using the PEG ratio, which is the price- earnings multiple divided by the growth rate of earnings. A PEG of less than one is often considered good value -- in other words, the PE should be less than the growth rate. 

 So McDonald's is changing hands at a PEG of about 1.8 (its PE ratio of 21 divided by earnings growth of 12 per cent.) That's higher than Intel's PEG of 1.7 (42 divided by 25). 

 In a frothy market where Nortel Networks Corp. has been trading at almost 100 times this year's profit, or America Online Inc. is valued at a multiple of 174, battered Dow consumer stocks may offer the prospect of stability. But many of them aren't cheap yet. Andrew Bell 

 DRUG GIANT MERCK GAVE INVESTORS THE BEST MEDICINE 

 Here's our checkup on which of the 10 battered consumer giants in the Dow did the best job of behaving like growth companies over the past decade. We sorted the companies by five criteria -- sales, growth, earnings, growth and dividend growth, global reach and return of equity -- and awarded them a score from 10 (highest) to 1 (lowest) according to their rank in each category. Then we added up their scores to arrive at a total rating for each stock. The number in brackets in each column is the company's score in that category. 


                       10-year  10-year.% sales  10-year  Return
                       annual   annual  outside  annual    on
                       average  average   U.S.*  average  equity
                       revenue  profit    in    dividend   in    Total
                       growth   growth   1999    growth   1999   score
 1. Merck & Co         16.5%(7).17.5%(8).25%(4)  18.5%(7).43.5%(9).35
 2. Philip Morris Cos  11.5(6)  14.5(5)  42(5)   19.5(8)  48.5(10).34
 3. Wal-Mart           22.0(9)  19.0(9)  11(2)   24.0(9)  22.0(4)  33
 4. Home Depot         27.0(10).31.5(10)  0(1)   43.0(10).18.5(2)  33
 5. Coca-Cola          10.5(4)  17.0(7)  62(10)  14.5(5)  32.5(6)  32
 6. Johnson & Johnson  11.0(5)  16.5(6)  47(6)   15.5(6)  26.0(5)  28
 7. Procter & Gamble    6.5(2)  13.5(4)  48(7)   11.0(3)  34.4(7)  23
 8. Eastman Kodak       0.5(1)   3.5(1)  52(9)    0.0(1)  34.5(8)  20
 9. McDonald's         10.0(3)  12.5(3)  50(8)   10.0(2)  19.5(3)  19
10. Disney             17.5(8)   9.5(2)  15(3)   14.5(4)   6.6(1)  18
Average for
S&P industrials           2.9      6.2     N/A      3.2      N/A
-*Sales for Coca-Cola are outside North America
Source: Value Line,
Bloomberg Financial Services and companies


 Illustration 

Document glob000020010806dw3i00dvk




 Tough call for the Fed. 

699 words
17 March 2000
Business Times Singapore
STBT
English
(c) 2000 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

 NOBODY, not even the US Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan, can say for sure how many US interest rate hikes it will take - if at all - to cool the US stock market, especially the super-charged Nasdaq. Taking this situation as the starting point, the future looks very uncertain indeed. 

 One plausible scenario is an absurd one: A series of US interest rate hikes causes the collapse in the share prices of profitable blue-chip US companies, many of which are represented in the Dow Jones index, while doing little to hold down the soaring prices of Nasdaq stocks that have not made even a plugged nickel in their short lifetimes. 

 Last week, this seemed to be already happening. The pundits say it's sheer momentum which propels stock markets these days, not actual earnings - especially not in the case of Nasdaq stocks. And the faster the Nasdaq rose, the greater was the temptation for fund managers to divert funds from slow-moving "old economy" assets into turbo-charged "new economy" alternatives. Consider this: US consumer giant Procter and Gamble, spooked by the twin threats of high oil prices and of further US interest rate hikes, issued a profit warning last week - and the Dow plunged more than 400 points last Tuesday. Yet, just two days later, the Nasdaq, that miracle-maker for risk-takers, had closed above 5,000 for the first time ever. 

 Whether or not this is a bubble, it's important to stress that what's driving this is flows of real money. By one account, as of March 1 this year, 72 per cent of the US$85 billion (S$145 billion) that investors have lately poured into stock markets has been funnelled into small-cap, technology-based or biotech-based stocks. So it's little wonder that last weekend, Warren Buffett, the best-known and most successful of all "value investors", had to apologise for his company's appalling performance last year. Earnings at his flagship firm, Berkshire Hathaway, fell 42 per cent, while the price of its stock fell a massive 20 per cent. This, in a year when the Dow rose 25 per cent, the S&P 500 19 per cent, and the Nasdaq 86 per cent. 

 So, irrational exuberance is in, it seems, and value investing is out, a poor alternative. For the majority of investors these days, the new economy sings, the old economy stinks.But, hold on, maybe not. Because by Wednesday this week, there seemed to be a change of heart. The Dow jumped 320 points - its biggest one-day point rise in 17 months - to close at 10,131.41 while the Nasdaq has given up 465 points in just three days, or a gut-wrenching 9.2 per cent fall from last Friday's 5,048.62 record high. Interest rates 

 The problem is, it remains to be seen whether this is a mere correction or a decisive turning point. The key is whether investors will turn nervous and pull their funds out of Nasdaq, or whether they remain ebullient and see the fall in prices as a buying opportunity. The important backdrop is the possibility that - as soon as next Tuesday - Alan Greenspan could raise US interest rates by another 25 to 50 basis points. But this brings us back to the question of whether, and how much, interest rates matter. With average returns of between 20 and 80 per cent - in specific cases, stocks have appreciated as much as 2,000 per cent - does it really matter all that much whether the Fed funds rate is at 6 per cent or 8 per cent? 

 So the burning issue for the Fed next Tuesday is not whether to hike rates 25 or 50 basis points; it is whether such hikes will hurt reliable, profitable but "old-fashioned" businesses and jobs, while doing little to cool the US stock market, especially the technology fever. Mr Greenspan has a tough call to make. And he can't use history as a guide. Let's hope he continues to act with the wisdom of Solomon. 

 (c) 2000 Singapore Press Holdings Limited. 

Document stbt000020010817dw3h001wg




 Who needs profit at a time like this? 

 By SHEILA O'FLANAGAN. 
1,119 words
17 March 2000
Irish Times
IRTI
56
English
(c) 2000

 Few know enough about most tech stocks to make value judgments but it doesn't stop people buying 

 The last 10 days or so have seen yet more acres of rainforest disappear under the weight of the bricks-and-mortar versus clicks-and-mortar debate which rages even more violently every minute. 

 The cheers when the Nasdaq reached ever higher were only matched by the jeers when it dropped 2.8 per cent on Monday, it is the fourth worst fall ever - not that it was much comfort to anyone holding either industrials or technology stocks since the industrials have been wiped so much already anyway. The favourite story last week was the new economy stocks like Baltimore entering the Footsie 100 at the expense of old economy stocks like Imperial Tobacco (not that I'm sorry to see that one go!). Most reporters scratched their heads as they tried to explain that market capitalisation had nothing to do with making a profit. Jeremy Paxman even got into the act, inviting Nicola Horlick to explain why on earth anyone would buy a stock when there was no chance in the foreseeable future of them turning in any money whatsoever, and why you'd pay a fortune for it instead of sticking with Allied Domeq. Ms Horlick explained very simply to a clearly irate (but isn't he always) Paxman, that fund managers had absolutely no idea which technology companies were going to be successful in the future, but you needed to buy a good spread of them so that, among the dross, one or two pearls would be found. 

 So the scattergun approach of the professionals is partly to blame for the rise of these stocks - nobody knows enough about most of them to make any value judgment but are buying them just in case. And the trouble is that, since they're having to evaluate them so differently from old economy stocks, none of the professionals is 100 per cent comfortable with what he has. This is why they are so keen to take profit from time to time and why they are so jumpy when markets tick downwards, even temporarily. Everyone is afraid that the emperor's new clothes are as non-existent now as they were in the fairy tale. 

 And the only people who can be truly sure that the fairy tale has worked for them are those who set up their sites and their companies and sold them to uncertain investors at vastly inflated prices. Last week the investors' guru, Warren Buffett, whose Berkshire Hathaway fund has been a consistently high returner over the past 30 years, apologised to stockholders when announcing that earnings had dropped 42 per cent in 1999, leading to a 20 per cent fall in the stock. Mr Buffett blamed himself entirely for the fact that this was the worst performance of his life and that it was a rotten performance relative to the S&P index too. In 1990 the cost of a share in his fund was $5,000. In 1998 it was $81,000. Last Friday, the shares were trading as low as $41,300 although they rebounded when Mr Buffett said that he would buy them back himself at $45,000. 

 Mr Buffett has been a bricks-and-mortar man, sticking with low-tech even last year and the results were a foregone conclusion. People were prepared to pay a premium for Berkshire Hathaway when a knowledge of old economy stocks was one you'd pay a premium for - its core investments are in companies like Coca Cola, Freddie Mac and Gillette. But when his only exposure to technology is Microsoft - which at this stage is almost old economy! - investors think they can do better themselves. Meanwhile, plenty of excitement was generated when Riverdeep, an educational software company, issued 36.5 million new ordinary shares which has turned its founder into yet another Internet millionaire. Actually, he's almost a billionaire which is enough to make you weep with envy - I know that people say education is important but its the first time they've put a price on it! 

 Anyway, lots and lots of people reckon that Riverdeep was massively overvalued, but since there aren't too many Irish techie companies to take a pop at, they scrambled to buy them anyway. Jeremy Paxman and Warren Buffet would have a heart attacks - the company has accumulated losses of $32 million (E33.08 million). And then there was Proctor & Gamble, ye olde economie stock, which issued a profits warning, fell like a stone and dragged the Dow with it. The interesting thing here is that P&G has sales of about $38 billion and profits of about $3.7 billion. That's billion. In profit. But investors have sent the stock plummeting because the profits weren't enough so that they can buy shares like Riverdeep with losses instead. Of course I know that we're talking about potential in the years ahead here - I've read all the bumpf too. But, will people keep on pushing the share prices higher (which is the only way you're going to make any money because obviously there's no dividend) until these companies finally do make some money? And if most of them aren't expecting to turn in a profit until 2004 or 2005, what sort of multiples are we talking about? 

 Maybe, of course, it's that there's still a difficulty in quantifying what a tech stock is going to provide. P&G produces all sorts of soaps, shampoos, toiletries and cosmetics which are things we all use, and is a brand leader in this sector. But, paraphrasing Mr Buffet, which companies in the technology field possess a durable competitive advantage? The falls on stock markets this week reflected Asian nervousness again following a shrinkage in the Japanese economy. Investors didn't like that GDP had fallen by 1.4 per cent when most analysts had predicted a fall of around 0.9 per cent. 

 And so they sold the stocks that they've made the most money out of - like Sony and Hikari Tsushin. And there have been a few mutterings about how difficult it will be and has been for the private investor who deals on the Net to sell when the markets are falling. 

 You can't connect, you can't place your order, you're left holding the ticking parcel! Which is the one sure thing in all of this. But, hey, we're all in it for the long-term, aren't we? 

Document irti000020010811dw3h00oqv




 Banc of America Capital Management releases "U.S. Economic Projections" report for the week ending March 24, 2000 

1,291 words
17 March 2000
20:11
Business Wire
BWR
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Business Wire) 

 Note to editor: The "U.S. Economic Projections" report that follows is written each week by Dr. Lynn Reaser, chief economist for the Bank of America Asset Management Group. The report is a publication of Banc of America Capital Management (BACAP), Inc., which manages almost $250 billion on behalf of clients. The Asset Management Group provides investment management services to individuals and institutions through BACAP; offers a full range of financial services, including fiduciary and credit services, to high-net-worth individuals and families through the Private Bank; and furnishes retail brokerage services through Banc of America Investment Services, Inc. 

 SAN FRANCISCO/ST. LOUIS, Mo.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--March 17, 2000-- "U.S. Economic Projections" report for the week ending March 24, 2000. 

 Luck of the Irish Charms Wall Street 

 CURRENT MARKET FOCUS 

 Stocks and bonds saw green this week as inflation reports suggested that general price pressures have not started to build at either the producer or consumer levels. While energy prices pushed up February's Producer Price Index by 1.0% and consumer prices by 0.5%, OPEC members have signaled their intention to open the oil spigot at least somewhat wider in coming months. In response, oil prices have dropped from a recent high of $34 a barrel to less than $31. We expect oil prices to drop to less than $25 a barrel by the end of the year. 

 Meanwhile, the "core" indices--prices excluding the volatile energy and food segments--indicate that higher energy costs have not filtered through to other sectors. Excluding food and energy, producer prices increased 0.3% last month and would have been flat without higher cigarette costs. The core Consumer Price Index advanced just 0.2%. 

 These price reports will not prevent the Federal Reserve from notching interest rates higher to guide the economy to a more moderate track, but the fears of overheating due to rising inflation remain more a risk than a reality. Irish eyes continue to smile. 

 THE WEEK AHEAD 

 The economic calendar will be light in the coming week, with most investors focusing on the Federal Reserve's policy-setting meeting on Tuesday. 

 While the stock market's strong climb may raise concerns over continued wealth gains, expect the Federal Reserve to raise its target interest rate by 25 basis points--rather than by a full one-half percentage point--to 6.00%. This would return the fed funds target to the previous high reached in 1995. Also expect a statement warning of the continued risk of inflation, suggesting that at least one more rate increase remains in the wings. 

 January's numbers on the trade deficit and February's results for durable goods orders will provide the only other diversions from an economic perspective. Expect to see a sizable widening of the trade deficit for January, especially with a higher oil import bill. The durable goods report tends to show large swings, but should be relatively flat with the latest reading. 

 THE STOCK MARKET 

 The stock market reached over the rainbow to capture its own pot of gold this week as investors suddenly saw value and potential in broad areas of the market. Anxiety over the possibility of higher interest rates had pummeled all but the technology sector until this past week. While the Federal Reserve still appears inclined to boost interest rates two or three times, a "soft landing" scenario remains the most likely outcome. 

 In addition, investors may be starting to appreciate that many of the "old economy" stocks will incorporate new technology and may see a significant boost in productivity and profitability as a consequence. Ultimately, there will be only one economy--and it will all be "new." 

 Do not be surprised to see some profit taking in the coming week, although any decline should be fairly limited and brief. The Federal Reserve might be surprisingly aggressive, but that risk is low. Watch, however, for next week's initial wave of profit warnings from companies that might miss their first-quarter earnings projections. These warnings could punish individual share prices with some ripple effects on closely related firms. 

 THE BOND MARKET 

 Four-leaf clovers were also prevalent in the bond market this week. Whereas stocks and bonds have often traded on different sides of the seesaw this year, the favorable underlying inflation reports triggered rallies in both markets. The yield on 30-year bonds dropped to 6.01% on Friday morning from 6.19% a week ago. The yield curve remains inverted at Treasury maturities of three years and beyond. This reflects both the impact of the government's buyback program and the growing view that inflation will be held in check and that the economy will finally moderate later this year. 

 The bond market might also see some profit taking in the coming week. However, the market has already fully priced in a 25-basis-point increase in the federal funds target plus a warning regarding the risk of higher inflation. 


INDICATORS TO WATCH
Indicator       International Trade Goods and Services - January
Release Date    Tuesday, March 21, 8:30 a.m. EST
December        -$25.5 billion
Forecast        -$26.5 billion (-$27.0 billion to $26.0. billion range)
Comments
            Brace for a jump in the trade deficit, as higher fuel costs
likely raised January's import bill. Also, exports likely eased
following December's sharp rise. The dollar's ongoing strength,
however, means that the U.S. still has the capacity to readily finance
these large deficits.
Indicator       FOMC Meeting
Date            Tuesday, March 21, 2:15 p.m. EST
Comments
            Expect to see a 25-basis-point increase in the federal funds
target rate to 6.00% and a similar hike in the discount rate to 5.50%.
In addition, although the Federal Reserve no longer issues a "bias"
statement, it is likely to offer a warning about the greater risk of
inflation (as opposed to recession). Such cautionary words will set
the stage for a follow-up rate increase in May.
Indicator       Initial Claims for Unemployment Insurance - week ended
                3/18/00
Release Date    Thursday, March 23, 8:30 a.m. EST
Prior Week      262,000
Forecast        270,000 (268,000 to 272,000 range)
Comments
            Anticipate some increase in jobless claims following the prior
week's sharp decline. However, the forecasted level of 270,000 would
suggest that companies are not engaged in a significant amount of
"churning," which involves making sizable layoffs while at the same
time hiring new, more technically advanced workers.
Indicator       Durable Goods Orders - February
Release Date    Friday, March 24, 8:30 a.m. EST
January         -1.90%
Forecast        0.0% (-1.0% to 1.2% range)
Comments
            Look for overall durable goods orders to be relatively flat in
February as a decline in aircraft orders offsets small gains in most
other categories. This series typically shows wide swings, however,
and is still adjusting to the 6.5% surge reported in December.
U.S. Economic Forecasts              Actual      Actual    Forecast
                                      1998        1999       2000
Real GDP (% chg.)                       4.3         4.1         4.6
Consumer Price Index (% chg.)           1.6         2.2         2.5
S&P 500 Operating EPS (% chg.)         -1.7          17          11
Federal Funds Rate (Dec. avg. %)       4.75         5.5        6.25
30-year Treasury Bond Yield
 (Dec. avg. %)                         5.06        6.35           6



The information and data provided in this analysis are derived from sources
that we deem to be reliable and accurate. Any opinions expressed are strictly
the opinion of Bank of America Investment Management and are subject to change
without notice.


Document bwr0000020010804dw3h018qm




Market report
 Business 
 `OLD ECONOMY' DOW STOCKS SHOW LOTS OF LIFE 

 Bill Barnhart 
959 words
16 March 2000
Chicago Tribune
TRIB
Chicago Sports Final ; N
1
English
 (Copyright 2000 by the Chicago Tribune) 

 This story contains corrected material, published March 18, 2000. 

 The old economy looked rather perky Wednesday on Wall Street. 

 Blue-chip stocks suddenly rebounded sharply, while the Nasdaq composite index posted its third straight triple-digit decline. 

 In a broad advance, the Dow Jones industrial average fought its way back above the 10,000 mark, gaining 320.17 points, or 3.3 percent, in heavy New York Stock Exchange floor trading of 1.3 billion shares. It was the Dow's fourth-best point gain. 

 "For some reason, somebody had the courage to start some buying, and we played follow the leader," said Alfred Goldman, technical market analyst for A.G. Edwards. 

 "It just started happening," Goldman said. "It could have happened two months ago or two weeks from now." 

 All but three of the 30 Dow industrials posted gains. The three losers were Hewlett-Packard, International Business Machines and AT&T. 

 The advance was not enough to lift the Dow out of correction territory--it's still down more than 13 percent from its record close in January--but the Nasdaq's drop moved it close to one itself. 

 Financials, large-capitalization pharmaceuticals and consumer products companies led the blue-chip advance. 

 The move, which was matched by a rally in the bond market, was all the more surprising, coming one day ahead of a monthly report on producer prices that may contain oil-induced inflation worries. 

 But the price of oil dropped $1.04 a barrel, to $30.65, amid reports that Saudi Arabia will push OPEC producers to boost output beginning in April. OPEC ministers are to meet in Vienna on March 27. 

 In addition, Wednesday's monthly report on industrial production, showing a smaller-than-expected increase in February, boosted large- cap stocks and bonds. 

 Marshall Front of the Chicago-based investment firm Front Barnett Associates said Wednesday's rally has been building for weeks. 

 Indeed, the sharp divergence favoring growth stocks over value stocks reached its peak in late February. The historic gap of recent months has been narrowing lately. 

 The S&P Barra value index of stocks with low price/earnings ratios among the Standard & Poor's 500 blue chips climbed 3.1 percent Wednesday, while the S&P Barra growth index rose 1.8 percent. 

 The move represents a blending of investor sentiment toward growth and value stocks that many analysts believe is essential to sustain the bull market. 

 On the other hand, no one was saying Wednesday that the newfound interest in old-economy stocks represented a sea change in investor interest. And technical analysts worried that Nasdaq stocks, already down 9.2 percent from Friday's closing peak, are headed for a serious correction. 

 The likelihood of more increases in interest rates by the Federal Reserve, probably beginning at the Fed's policy meeting Tuesday, remains a barrier to higher stock prices generally, analysts said. 

 "Is this a shift out of the new and into the old? No," said Goldman. 

 Nor is the market volatility, represented by the last few trading days, a strong inducement to buy shares of any kind. 

 Goldman's firm, A.G. Edwards, on Wednesday cut its recommended allocation of stocks to 55 percent from 60 percent and boosted its cash level to 10 percent from 5 percent, with the rest in bonds. 

 "We believe it likely that the Federal Reserve will continue to raise [short-term rates] in an effort to slow down the economy," said Mark Keller, chair of the firm's investment strategy committee. 

 The S&P 500 index, the principal benchmark for equity investors, has avoided the more than 10 percent correction suffered by the Dow industrials because technology stocks are more dominant in the S&P 500, Keller noted. 

 "Should the tech stocks also begin to reflect concern for a slowing economy, the S&P 500 would reflect the weakness the Dow has displayed," he said. 

 In fact, many of the biggest losers Wednesday were large-cap technology stocks, such as Dell Computer, Cisco Systems, JDS Uniphase and Applied Materials. 

 Internet portal Yahoo! and on-line auction service eBay fell sharply after speculation evaporated that the two companies would merge or form a strategic alliance. 

 Meanwhile, several old-economy companies announced upbeat outlooks, including Colgate Palmolive, whose bullish comments partially offset last week's profit warning by Procter & Gamble. 

 Whirlpool, which concurred with analyst forecasts of higher profits, and Maytag, which reiterated its projection for 2000 results, both posted healthy gains. 

 Locally, Lisle-based telecommunications equipment dealer Tellabs gained $3.81, to $60.81, after Lehman Brothers said it was maintaining the stock on its "Number One investment idea" list. 

 Last month, a Lehman Brothers analyst, discussing the divergence among even technology stocks, recommended selling Tellabs and buying high-flying fiber-optic communications equipment-maker JDS Uniphase. 

 Local news: The New York Stock Exchange late Wednesday asked Lake Forest-based W.W. Grainger, an industrial distributor, to comment on the recent jump in Grainger's stock price. Shares gained $1.44, to $46.94, after jumping $6.69 on Tuesday. 

 - Rosemont based trucker USFreightways jumped $4.25, to $34.25, after the company formed a new unit to focus on worldwide logistics. The stock received a "strong buy" rating Monday by Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown. 

 - Chicago-based eLoyalty gained 62 cents, to $24.25, after receiving a "strong buy" rating from First Union Securities (this sentence as published has been corrected in this text). 

 GRAPHIC; Caption: GRAPHIC: Dow rallies Wednesday's close: 10,131.41 Tuesday's close: 9,811.24 Source: Bridge Chicago Tribune - See microfilm for complete graphic. 

Document trib000020010813dw3g00hsv




 Business 
 BUSINESS IN BRIEF 

Bloomberg News and the Associated Press.
1,167 words
16 March 2000
The Star-Ledger Newark, NJ
NSL
FINAL
039
English
 (c) 2000. The Star-Ledger. All rights reserved. 

 Sears begins search for new CEO Arthur C. Martinez, widely credited with rescuing Sears, Roebuck & Co. from the edge of failure in the mid-1990s, plans to retire from the helm of the giant retail chain by the end of this year, the company said yesterday. A search for his replacement has already begun. 

 The announcement signals more uncertainty for the century-old company, which ruled the retail world for decades but has lost customers to discount stores and higher-priced competitors in recent years. Under Martinez' watch, Sears' business hit some dramatic highs and lows. 

 Martinez now shares corporate decision-making with Alan J. Lacy, president of services, and Julian C. Day, executive vice president and chief operating and financial officer. U.S. buying spree sends trade deficit zooming American consumers' buying spree of foreign goods from TVs to cars last year led to an immense increase in the trade deficit - up more than 50 percent to a record high of $338.9 billion. 

 The deficit in the "current account," which measures not only trade in goods and service but also investment flows and foreign aid payments, grew by 53.7 percent from the previous record, a $220.6 billion imbalance in 1998, the Commerce Department said yesterday. 

 General Mills says its earnings are on target Strong sales of yogurt and Hamburger Helper mixes coupled with demand for Chex cereals used to make snack mixes over the holidays helped boost General Mills' third-quarter earnings nearly 9 percent. 

 General Mills said yesterday that profits rose to $153.3 million, or 50 cents a share, in the three months ended Feb. 28, compared with $141.1 million, or 45 cents a share, in the year-ago quarter. 

 The performance matched expectations of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. General Mills shares rose 2` to 323/4 in trading at 4:30 p.m. on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Revenue was up 8 percent to $1.62 billion, from $1.50 billion. Sales were up 5 percent excluding revenue from Lloyd's refrigerated entrees, Farmhouse Foods side dishes, Gardetto's snacks and Small Planet organic foods, businesses acquired since January 1999. Dollar keeps gains against yen The dollar held on to gains it made against the yen yesterday after getting a boost from market intervention from the Bank of Japan earlier in the trading day. 

 Japan's central bank stepped into the market to buy dollars and sell yen during Tokyo trading, sending the dollar higher. It was the second time in the space of a week that the bank intervened in the market. 

 In late New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 105.57 Japanese yen, up from 105.05 late Tuesday. 

 The dollar had gone as low as 104.75 yen in Tokyo, reigniting fears that an overly high yen could impact Japanese exporting companies that rely on overseas earnings to drive their profits. 

 Senior Japanese government officials have been sounding a drumbeat of warnings about the possible effects of an overly strong yen, which could impact the nation's economy as it struggles to emerge from recession. Sema buying LHS Group for $4 billion Sema Group Plc, Europe's No. 2 computer-services company, agreed to buy LHS Group Inc. for $4 billion in stock to expand sales of billing software to wireless phone companies. Sema's shares fell 15 percent. 

 London-based Sema offered 2.6 shares for each LHS share, which values the Atlanta-based company's stock at $59.04, or 49 percent more than yesterday's closing price. LHS shareholders would own about 27 percent of the combined company. 

 The British company is pushing to increase sales of software and services to mobile phone companies, which are buying programs faster than are other clients. LHS would add customers including Bell Atlantic Corp., Globalstar Telecommunications Ltd. and Nextel Communications Inc. to Sema's existing clients, such as Telecom Italia Mobile SpA, Vodafone AirTouch Plc and Vivendi SA. 

 Sema paid a relatively high price for a company that sells mostly to small and medium-sized customers, said Michael Turits, an analyst with Prudential Securities in New York. "It leaves them two steps behind competitors such as Amdocs and Convergys" in serving big customers, he said. Federal-Mogul eliminating 1,500 jobs Federal-Mogul Corp. will cut 1,500 jobs, or almost 3 percent of its work force, as the largest maker of engine seals and bearings closes 23 North American warehouses and combines other facilities to reduce costs. 

 The company expects charges of about $100 million, mostly this year, for the moves, and another $100 million in added costs in the next two years for such things as moving equipment and machinery and capital spending. 

 Federal-Mogul also is closing factories in Mooresville, Ind., and Milan, Mich. Federal-Mogul has struggled to integrate large acquisitions from 1998, which included $4.9 billion for U.K. gasket maker T&N Plc and Cooper Industries Inc.'s replacement-parts unit. The company's shares have fallen almost two-thirds since a Sept. 13 warning on third-quarter profit because replacement-part sales and savings from acquisitions were lower than expected. Funds may be forced to disclose after-tax returns Fidelity Investments, Vanguard Group and other mutual fund companies would have to disclose their after-tax performance to investors under a rule proposal issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

 ''Two funds with identical before-tax returns can have significantly different after-tax returns," SEC Chairman Arthur Levitt said. "Investors are entitled to be told that difference." 

 The proposal, which gives the public until June 30 to submit comment letters, would require funds to disclose these returns in their prospectuses and annual reports, though not in advertisements. Funds would have to display one-, five- and 10- year after-tax returns in a standardized table designed to let investors compare the returns of different funds. 

 The SEC proposal was spurred by similar requirements in legislation introduced a year ago by Representatives Paul Gillmor, a Ohio Republican, and Edward Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat. The House Commerce Committee yesterday passed that bill in a voice vote, sending it on to the full House for consideration. BMW's shares surge on possible divestiture Bayerische Motoren Werke AG's shares posted their biggest rise ever after Germany's third-largest car maker said it may sell its U.K.- based Rover Cars unit to end a six-year, money-losing investment. 

 The shares rose as much 3.49 euros, or 12.8 percent, to 30.80 euros after the Munich-based company said its supervisory board will meet tomorrow to consider selling Rover and its plants and keeping the Land Rover and Mini brands. The company wants to shed the car unit because Rover lost at least 2.5 billion German marks ($1.2 billion) last year, the Seudeutsche Zeitung newspaper reported. Compiled from reports by 

Document nsl0000020010808dw3g00fnb


 Chicago Tribune Market Report Column 

 Bill Barnhart 
954 words
16 March 2000
KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Chicago Tribune - Illinois
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 THE OLD ECONOMY looked rather perky Wednesday on Wall Street. 

 Blue-chip stocks suddenly rebounded sharply, while the Nasdaq composite index posted its third straight triple-digit decline. 

 In a broad advance, the Dow Jones industrial average fought its way back above the 10,000 mark, gaining 320.17 points, or 3.3 percent, in heavy New York Stock Exchange floor trading of 1.3 billion shares. It was the Dow's fourth-best point gain. 

 "For some reason, somebody had the courage to start some buying, and we played follow the leader," said Alfred Goldman, technical market analyst for A.G. Edwards. 

 "It just started happening," Goldman said. "It could have happened two months ago or two weeks from now." 

 All but three of the 30 Dow industrials posted gains. The three losers were Hewlett-Packard, International Business Machines and AT&T. 

 The advance was not enough to lift the Dow out of correction territory -- it's still down more than 13 percent from its record close in January -- but the Nasdaq's drop moved it close to one itself. 

 Financials, large-capitalization pharmaceuticals and consumer products companies led the blue-chip advance. 

 The move, which was matched by a rally in the bond market, was all the more surprising, coming one day ahead of a monthly report on producer prices that may contain oil-induced inflation worries. 

 But the price of oil dropped $1.04 a barrel, to $30.65, amid reports that Saudi Arabia will push OPEC producers to boost output beginning in April. OPEC ministers are to meet in Vienna on March 27. 

 In addition, Wednesday's monthly report on industrial production, showing a smaller-than-expected increase in February, boosted large-cap stocks and bonds. 

 Marshall Front of the Chicago-based investment firm Front Barnett Associates said Wednesday's rally has been building for weeks. 

 Indeed, the sharp divergence favoring growth stocks over value stocks reached its peak in late February. The historic gap of recent months has been narrowing lately. 

 The S&P Barra value index of stocks with low price/earnings ratios among the Standard & Poor's 500 blue chips climbed 3.1 percent Wednesday, while the S&P Barra growth index rose 1.8 percent. 

 The move represents a blending of investor sentiment toward growth and value stocks that many analysts believe is essential to sustain the bull market. 

 On the other hand, no one was saying Wednesday that the newfound interest in old-economy stocks represented a sea change in investor interest. And technical analysts worried that Nasdaq stocks, already down 9.2 percent from Friday's closing peak, are headed for a serious correction. 

 The likelihood of more increases in interest rates by the Federal Reserve, probably beginning at the Fed's policy meeting Tuesday, remains a barrier to higher stock prices generally, analysts said. 

 "Is this a shift out of the new and into the old? No," said Goldman. 

 Nor is the market volatility, represented by the last few trading days, a strong inducement to buy shares of any kind. 

 Goldman's firm, A.G. Edwards, on Wednesday cut its recommended allocation of stocks to 55 percent from 60 percent and boosted its cash level to 10 percent from 5 percent, with the rest in bonds. 

 "We believe it likely that the Federal Reserve will continue to raise [short-term rates] in an effort to slow down the economy," said Mark Keller, chair of the firm's investment strategy committee. 

 The S&P 500 index, the principal benchmark for equity investors, has avoided the more than 10 percent correction suffered by the Dow industrials because technology stocks are more dominant in the S&P 500, Keller noted. 

 "Should the tech stocks also begin to reflect concern for a slowing economy, the S&P 500 would reflect the weakness the Dow has displayed," he said. 

 In fact, many of the biggest losers Wednesday were large-cap technology stocks, such as Dell Computer, Cisco Systems, JDS Uniphase and Applied Materials. 

 Internet portal Yahoo! and on-line auction service eBay fell sharply after speculation evaporated that the two companies were merge or form a strategic alliance. 

 Meanwhile, several old-economy companies announced upbeat outlooks, including Colgate Palmolive, whose bullish comments partially offset the last week's profit warning by Procter & Gamble. 

 Whirlpool, which concurred with analyst forecasts of higher profits, and Maytag, which reiterated its projection for 2000 results, both posted healthy gains. 

 General Mills rose after the company met Wall Street estimates in its fiscal third-quarter earnings report and predicted strong double-digit growth in the fourth quarter. Oak Brook-based McDonald's rose $2, to $32.50, after receiving a "buy" recommendation from J.P. Morgan. 

 Locally, Lisle-based telecommunications equipment dealer Tellabs gained $3.81, to $60.81, after Lehman Brothers said it was maintaining the stock on its "Number One investment idea" list. 

 Last month, a Lehman Brothers analyst, discussing the divergence among even technology stocks, recommended selling Tellabs and buying high-flying fiber-optic communications equipment-maker JDS Uniphase. 

 LOCAL NEWS: The New York Stock Exchange late Wednesday asked Lake Forest-based W.W. Grainger, an industrial distributor, to comment on the recent jump in Grainger's stock price. Shares gained $1.44, to $46.94, after jumping $6.69 on Tuesday. 

 Rosemont based trucker USFreightways jumped $4.25, to $34.25, after the company formed a new unit to focus on worldwide logistics. The stock received a "strong buy" rating Monday by Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown. 

 Chicago-based eLoyalty gained 62 cents, to $24.25, after receiving a "strong buy" rating from ING Barings. 

Document krtbn00020010807dw3g00lg9




 Hitachi To Speed Up Mainframe Upgrades, Stop Marketing Current Models 

235 words
15 March 2000
17:05
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Japanese electronics giant Hitachi Ltd., which last week issued a profit warning because of weakness in its mainframe computer business, reportedly plans to stop marketing recently released mainframes in the U.S. and Europe. 

 Hitachi (HIT) will stop marketing mainframes it released six months ago, an unusual move in an industry that sees new models released every three to four years, the Nihon Keizai Shimbun nespaper reported. Hitachi hopes to release new models by the middle of next summer, the paper reported. 

 Hitachi last week slashed its forecast for group net profit in the fiscal year ending later this month by more than 70%, citing weak performance in its mainframe business. 

 The company has seen fierce competition in the North American market for mainframes from rivals such as International Business Machines Corp. That combined with fears generated by the year 2000 date change that hampered sales and dropped the mainframe unit into the red in the second half of the fiscal year. Hitachi has also cited a sharp decline in prices, which sliced into its profit margins. 

 Hitachi last week said the weak results in its mainframe business more than offset better-than-expected sales of semiconductors and liquid crystal display panels. 

 (Compiled from Dow Jones Newswires and other sources) 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020020330dw3f017ug


 St. Petersburg, Fla.-Based Photocopier Distributor Reports Lower Profits 

 Ameet Sachdev 
614 words
14 March 2000
Florida
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 Danka Business Systems PLC stumbled on its path to recovery, disclosing Monday that profits in the current quarter will be well below expectations. 

 The St. Petersburg photocopier distributor blamed the shortfall on discounts it offered on older analog machines and higher costs for digital equipment. On the service side, Danka experienced higher costs for parts and labor. 

 Separately, the company said it was sticking with an existing credit agreement after a plan to refinance its debt fell through. Wall Street was counting on a new lending arrangement to lower Danka's interest expense. 

 Both pieces of news caught analysts off guard. Company officials had not indicated problems at recent investor conferences, where companies make financial presentations to analysts and large investors. 

 Analysts had expected the company to earn 25 cents a share in the fiscal fourth quarter that ends March 31. Danka officials declined to say how much the company will earn, but they insisted the problems would be confined to the fourth quarter and would not affect the outlook for the rest of the year. 

 Nevertheless, Wall Street did not take the news well. Danka's stock price fell $1.94, or 25 percent, to $5.75. The stock closed Monday nearly 60 percent off its one-year high of $13.88 reached in December. 

 The profit warning raised troubling memories of Danka's not-too-distant past, when the company struggled to integrate its acquisition of Eastman Kodak Co.'s copier sales and service business. The internal rifts brought the company to the brink of bankruptcy and led to the ouster of co-founder Dan Doyle. 

 Despite recent history, analysts don't think Monday's disclosure masks deeper problems. "I don't think the bottom is going to fall out," said Lou Slawetsky, president of Industry Analysts in Rochester, N.Y., an industry market-research firm. "But I was a little disappointed." 

 Danka chief executive Larry Switzer told analysts during a conference call Monday that executives first learned of the profit shortfall late last week while reviewing preliminary results from February. The company decided to lower expectations even though March sales are ongoing. March is typically the best sales month in the copier industry. 

 "This was an isolated U.S. issue, and the remainder of worldwide operations' performance was fully up to expectations," Switzer said. 

 Danka reduced its inventory of analog equipment but had to do so by selling it at a steep discount. The company is trying to make room for digital copiers that can be hooked into computer networks and serve as printers as well as make copies. Industry watchers forecast the copier market in 2003 will be 87 percent digital, up from 20 percent in 1998. 

 With the digital market so hot, manufacturers such as Canon and Toshiba raised prices Jan. 1. But Danka could not pass along all the price increases to customers, which cut into profit margins. Switzer said the situation is only temporary. 

 Still, the company is taking steps to counter the decline in profit margins. Danka said it is reducing costs in its service operations but was vague on details. Executives declined to comment beyond the conference call. 

 Switzer said during the call that the lack of a new credit agreement had nothing to do with the disappointing fourth-quarter results. The company said in January that it had a preliminary deal with Bank of America to refinance its debt of $650-million. The transaction was expected to close by March 31. 

 Switzer indicated that rising interest rates made the new arrangement less appealing. The company's existing bank agreement runs through March 2002. 

Document krtbn00020010807dw3e00kog




BUSINESS
PROGRESSIVE ISSUES NEW PROFIT ALERT 

FROM STAFF AND WIRE REPORTS 
432 words
14 March 2000
The Plain Dealer
CLEV
FINAL / ALL
2C
English
© 2000 The Plain Dealer.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.  All rights reserved.  

Progressive Corp. said yesterday that first-quarter earnings will fall below analysts' forecasts because of higher-than expected claims, the auto insurer's third profit warning in as many quarters. 

The company's shares fell 56 cents to $49.19 in trading yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange. Earlier, it fell to 45, its lowest level since July 1996. The shares are off 64 percent the past 12 months. 

Progressive said that its insurance prices in many states were too low and that recent rate increases haven't been enough to stem the decline in earnings. Analysts in a First Call/Thomson Financial survey were looking for the company to earn 50 cents a share in the first quarter, down from $1.39 a year earlier. 

"We are dealing with each of the causes of our disappointing results," said Glenn Renwick, chief executive of Progressive's insurance operations. "Rates in many states were too low and have been raised." 

Progressive said it's also bolstering reserves against unexpected losses to reflect the rising claims. Prices of auto insurance have fallen in recent years amid mounting competition, while the cost of paying victims of auto accidents has risen. 

That has hurt profits at major U.S. auto insurers, including State Farm Mutual and No.2 Allstate. As a result, share prices have declined across the industry. 

Jeffrey Thompson, an analyst at Advest Inc., said other auto insurers haven't joined Progressive in raising prices, which could put the Mayfield Village-based insurer at a disadvantage to competitors that offer lower prices. 

"Progressive's rising costs here are out of sync with the rest of their competition, where costs are not rising at the same rate," Greg Lapin, analyst at PaineWebber in New York, said. "That is a part of the reason for the impact on their margin. It is another blow to their credibility because of their inability to get their arms around this issue." 

But Lapin said he believes "the company will come through this. There will be an industry shakeout due to intense competition, and Progressive should be a survivor because of its low costs structure." 

The company, which became one of the largest U.S. auto insurers by selling coverage to drivers with spotty driving records or fast cars, has in recent years begun to sell more insurance to drivers with average or superior records. 

That may be contributing to Progressive's problems, Advest's Thompson said: Insuring riskier drivers "historically has been a much more lucrative business."  

Document clev000020010804dw3e008wa




 BUSINESS 
 Fuller stock plunges on  profit warning  Shares fall 18 percent on news of flat earnings 

 Susan E. Peterson; Staff Writer 
555 words
14 March 2000
Star-Tribune Newspaper of the Twin Cities Mpls.-St. Paul
MSP
METRO
01D
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 H.B. Fuller's shares plummeted Monday, dropping 18 percent after the Vadnais Heights-based adhesives and specialty chemicals company warned that its first-quarter earnings would be substantially lower than expected. 

 Fuller shares closed Monday at $42.25, down $9.25 from Friday's close, even though the company said it is confident it can meet its full-year sales and earnings targets. Some analysts said the jittery stock market overreacted to the news. These days, "the minute a company has a hiccup, the street kills it," said analyst Rosemarie Morbelli of Ingalls & Snyder in New York City. 

 Fuller's stock dropped as low as $36 early in the day, losing almost a third of its value after the company said it expected earnings of 67 cents a share for the quarter ended Feb. 26, unchanged from the year-ago quarter. Analysts had expected earnings of 90 cents for the quarter, according to a consensus average reported by Zack's Investment Research. First-quarter results will be reported after the market close next Tuesday. 

 Fuller blamed the expected first-quarter shortfall on several factors: high oil prices that boosted its costs for raw materials and transportation, the impact of weak currencies in Europe and a lower return on investments in a supplemental retirement benefit program. Those events are expected to reduce quarterly earnings by 12 to 15 cents a share, offsetting gains from Fuller's restructuring program. 

 Higher oil prices were the biggest culprit, cutting earnings by an estimated 4 to 7 cents a share, said spokesman Richard Edwards. 

 Oil derivatives account for 30 to 35 percent of Fuller's raw materials, he said, and higher fuel costs mean higher transportation costs as well. 

 Edwards said Fuller's benefit-related investments, held in the Standard & Poor's 500 index, showed an unrealized loss at the end of the quarter, trimming earnings by 4 cents a share. However, much of that loss had been recovered by the end of last week, he said. Currency-translation factors were expected to reduce earnings by 3 to 4 cents a share. 

 Fuller said it is taking several steps to improve results, including implementing price increases averaging 5 percent, continuing worldwide cost-cutting efforts and maximizing the benefits of its international purchasing program and its new online procurement system. 

 Morbelli said that although she anticipated a toll on first- quarter results from rising crude oil prices and other factors, "I expected that some of the restructuring steps they had taken would more than offset the hit." However, while she trimmed her estimate for full-year earnings to $4.72 from her previous $5, she maintained her "buy" recommendation on the stock. 

 "They really don't have a problem," she said. "I think this is a great buying opportunity - unless the U.S. goes into a recession, and then all bets are off." 

 She noted that Fuller has a relatively small number of outstanding shares, so that any hit to profits affects its per-share earnings particularly hard. But that works on the up side as well as the down, she noted: "If they have a big order, or something minor occurs, they could make it up." 

Document msp0000020020328dw3e05cjc




 The Wall Street bogey. 

 By Stephanie Phang. 
1,067 words
13 March 2000
The Edge
THEDGE
English
(c) 2000 The Edge Communications Sdn Bhd

 Investors in Asia are watching Wall Streets recent volatility with apprehension, fearing as always that the US bubble will finally burst, thus, bringing the markets in the region tumbling down with it. But is it as big a bogey for the Malaysian stock market as feared? 

 No doubt some impact will be felt in the event of a crash on Wall Street but economists contacted by The Edge say the impact is unlikely to be as devastating as feared. Additionally, most of them do not see a crash on Wall Street, taking comfort in the recent correction as an indication that any fall on Wall Street will be gradual. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average posted its fourth-biggest point drop in history last Tuesday after Proctor & Gamble shook Wall Street with a profit warning. By Wednesday, the Dow had recovered 60.50 points, but was still down 14.2 per cent for the year. 

 Expectations that the US Federal Reserve will keep raising interest rates to slow the economy have prompted investors to shed the Dows traditional blue chips, whose profits are seen as more sensitive to tighter credit. 

 And the money is all heading to the technology stocks on the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotations (Nasdaq), which set 14 record highs this year. Last Wednesday, Nasdaq was up 20.3 per cent for the year. Technology stocks are seen as less dependent on banks for raising capital. 

 A lot of investors are shifting out of brick-and-mortar to click-and-mortar [businesses], says Yang Sy Jian, director of research at Kay Hian Pte Ltd (Singapore). The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) is represented predominantly by the former, he points out, and therefore, bears the brunt of the flight to new economy stocks. 

 To some extent, the divergence between the new and old economy is being mirrored in Asia, where markets that are more technology-heavy like Hong Kong and South Korea have steamed ahead of others, say economists. Most other bourses are seeing a dichotomy between Main and Second Board stocks, similar to the divergence between the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and Nasdaq, says Christopher Ng, economist at OCBC Investment Research (Singapore). 

 Increasingly, many investors take their cue from Wall Street and Nasdaq, says Song Seng Wun, regional economist at GK Goh (Singapore). Which is why the Dows weak performance last week has been bad for sentiment in Asias predominantly-old economy markets. 

 People will feel nervous with the Dow coming down, says Peck Boon Soon, economist at Worldsec International Ltd (Kuala Lumpur). 

 Nevertheless, it still pays to be in the brick-and-mortar segment in Asia at the moment, economists say. For example, Malaysia still has a good few years to go in terms of the hardware business, says Yang, who points out that exports of our manufacturing and semiconductor industries are benefiting from the weaker ringgit. This is why Yang thinks the current weakness in the Malaysian market is a good opportunity for investors to pick up bargains. 

 Still, the fears of a crash on Wall Street are present, and economists give a mixed prognosis of this possibility. 

 On the pessimistic end, GK Gohs Song is advising investors to move away from stocks at the moment, because the signs are fairly ominous. The US economy is beginning to see the increasing strains and stress of rapid growth, he says, noting that the corporate bond yield has climbed to nearly 8.0 per cent, and that private consumption as a percentage of gross domestic product (GDP) is at a historical high of nearly 70 per cent. The producer price index for the cost of crude materials in the US also rose 17 per cent year-on-year in January. 

 The US is the largest market for Asian exports, Song points out, and a slowdown in the US economy would affect export-dependent economies like Malaysia. And even if the stresses of economic growth inflation and rising interest rates affect only the old economy stocks, Nasdaq is also vulnerable to a correction. 

 For one, redemption could lead to investors selling out in markets that have performed well, he says, including Nasdaq. For another, the new economy cant escape unscathed if there is a correction in the old economy. Will B-to-B (business-to-business) commerce be as robust [when the old economy falters]? he asks. 

 Others are less gloomy. Peck of Worldsec International wouldnt say that a crash on Wall Street is imminent, but is expecting some correction in the US market. OCBCs Ng says a crash is anybodys guess, but thinks that the NYSE has done its due-diligence in terms of [accounting for] the rising interest rates. 

 More of a concern is Nasdaq, since part of the run-up in the Malaysian market has been due to technology play, and investors seem to be watching the former more than the Dow. And here, Ng is optimistic, dismissing a crash on Nasdaq. 

 Yang of Kay Hian is the most positive, believing that a crash is unlikely. Inflation in the US is manageable, he says, because new technologies have improved efficiency and productivity in the US economy. Furthermore, with Asia being so cheap, many US producers are outsourcing more and more of their production in Asia. A bigger percentage of goods that are being imported into the US are from Asia. Hence a bigger chunk of imports are cheap compared to before, he points out, and this is helping to keep prices down in the US. 

 Furthermore, even if there is a crash, Malaysia could be one of the most resilient markets in the region, Yang adds, because there are not a lot of foreign funds in the Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange (KLSE). 

 Other economists agree that the current weakness in the Malaysian market has little to do with Wall Street the Wall Street concern has always been there, says Peck. 

 Post-Chinese New Year, the KLSE saw high-volume trading and a lot of speculation, says Peck. Subsequently, a lot of retail investors were unable to pick up their shares, he adds, triggering the recent decline. 

 At the end of the day, with capital controls in place, volatility on Wall Street is less of a problem for Malaysia than for other regional markets, Ng says. 

 (c) 2000 The Edge Communications Sdn Bhd. 

Document thedge0020010818dw3d000dy




Current Yield
 MARKET WEEK -- Capital Markets 
 Miraculous Trifecta: U.S. Buys Back Debt, Mexico Gets an Investment Grade, and Straight Talk From Mr. G 

 By William Pesek Jr. 
1,309 words
13 March 2000
Barron's
B
MW10
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Extraordinary events happen in threes, as the old saying goes. That was certainly the case last week when three things that many on Wall Street thought would never happen did: Uncle Sam bought back debt, Alan Greenspan spoke plain English to warn of higher interest rates, and Mexico gained investment-grade status. 

 Taken together, all three events served as a reminder that the U.S. economy continues to boom and the global economy is snapping back. As the Federal Reserve chairman made clear last week, U.S. short-term rates need to go higher, perhaps sharply, to calm things down. Yet long-term rates didn't skyrocket as one might expect in the face of hawkish talk from the Fed and worsening inflation expectations. 

 All of which raised the possibility that bond yields are peaking, or at least are close to a top. The evidence is tentative at best, based more on the gut feelings of veteran observers than statistics. But the market's indifference to Greenspan's unusually clear rate warnings of late suggests investors are confident the U.S. central bank will contain any inflationary outbreak. At the same time, stocks are becoming more volatile, making bonds look better. 

 After weeding though recent data on mutual-fund flows, Nancy Lazar of ISI Group wonders if lower bond yields are in the offing. Bond funds experienced more than $19 billion of capital outflows in January, while roughly $40 billion zoomed into stock funds. That caused an unprecedented near-$60 billion disparity between flows into equities and out of bonds. Historically, flows are only this lop-sided when yields are peaking. 

 Unfortunately, economic fundamentals aren't much help in bearing out the trend. On the one hand, the economy is raging ahead. The Fed's latest Beige Book report offered no signs of slowing in the first two months of the year and found that wage pressures intensified. The jump in petroleum, meanwhile, is sure to place upward pressure on overall prices, at least temporarily. On the other hand, measured inflation so far isn't accelerating and the 6.4% rate of productivity growth in the fourth quarter tempered fears it will. 

 More important in the eye of investors, the Fed's making it clear that it means business keeping inflation tame. It's considered a foregone conclusion that the Federal Open Market Committee will raise rates by a quarter-point on March 21, its fifth tightening since June 1999. While the bond market rarely welcomes monetary restraint, the Fed's recent actions are encouraging investors to move out on the Treasury yield curve, keeping five- and 10-year note prices supported. Thirty-year bonds are also en vogue, not just because of supply trends but thanks to fundamentals as well. 

 Last week, the U.S. Treasury, flush with cash and predicting surpluses as far as the eye can see, bought back $1 billion of national debt. In the first such transaction in 70 years, Uncle Sam repurchased a block of 30-year bonds issued between 1985 and 1990 at coupons ranging from 8 7/8 % to 11 1/8 %. Those rates are considerably higher than the 6.17% yield at which the 30-year bond finished the week. 

 While the buyback accounted for only a tiny fraction of the $5.7 trillion national debt outstanding, few traders making a living on Wall Street thought that day would ever come. The U.S. plans to buy back another $1 billion of debt later this month and roughly $30 billion of older high-coupon bonds by yearend. As the U.S. retires more debt, investors could see a structural decline in long-term Treasury yields. 

 In the shorter-term, however, yields may not have too much downside. "It's hard to find signs the economy is slowing or that the Fed is done tightening," says Reno Martini, chief investment officer at the Calvert Group. One sign that the bond market is adrift in uncertainty is that spreads between corporate and Treasury yields are widening, Martini notes. Corporate issuers thus are being forced to pay higher interest rates when tapping the capital markets, negating part of the rate impact of Uncle Sam's buyback. 

 Indeed, the yield on the 10-year Treasury note was unchanged on the week at 6.38%. With crude oil still uncomfortably close to the $30-per-barrel range, ugly readings on this week's reports on consumer and producer prices for February could slam Wall Street. While many analysts are apt to pooh-pooh the role of oil in the New Economy, markets haven't been so concerned about energy since the Persian Gulf War. "At stake," says StephanGotz Richter of TheGlobalist.com, "is the disruption of the U.S. economy's record 108 consecutive months of economic growth." 

 The idea that the Internet and other technologies have made the U.S. inflation-proof took a hit last week amid reports that rising raw materials -- energy, in particular -- are affecting American consumers, airlines, truckers and manufacturers. Procter & Gamble, most notably, shook the stock market with warnings that rising costs would hurt earnings. 

 Wall Street's violent reaction drew comparisons to the slide following Philip Morris' April 1993 move to cut cigarette prices. That event, known as "Marlboro Friday," foretold an improving inflation outlook. But P&G's disclosure last week must be viewed as an inflationary event. Indeed, as the Fed's Beige Book report noted, "rising prices for energy products and other industrial commodities squeezed many companies' profit margins" in recent weeks. 

 While companies have less pricing power in today's economy, analysts wonder how much longer companies can absorb higher costs rather than boosting selling prices. Meanwhile, a recent National Association of Business Economists survey showed that more than one- third of analysts fear that the Fed's gradualist approach to tightening is stimulating the economy at levels that cannot be sustained without triggering inflation. 

 P&G's profit warning may have slammed the Dow Jones Industrial Average last week, but some bond aficionados sensed a buying opportunity in the company's debt. Indeed, even if P&G buys back shares or makes acquisitions to boost its stock, it's still an Aa2/AA credit and enjoys decent cash flow. "It seems like a temporary problem, not a fundamental one," said Patrick Ledford, portfolio manager at Citibank Global Asset Management. 

 -- Mexico, offering yet another sign that the global economy's weakest links are strengthening, has graduated to investment-grade status for the very first time. Last week's upgrade by Moody's Investors Service will no doubt attract new investment flows to America's largest trading partner, not to mention lower borrowing costs. 

 While Mexican markets rallied on the news, the nation's sovereign debt may have further upside potential. Recall what happened in early 1999 when Korea regained investment-grade status: In the six months following the announcement, Korean bonds plunged 130 basis points through July 1999. Lehman Brothers analyst Jose Barrionuevo finds great significance in Korea's experience and thinks Mexico is perhaps the best leveraged play on American markets and growth. 

 Indeed, with more than 80% of Mexican exports headed to the booming U.S. economy, Ross Perot's "great sucking sound" actually comes from the caravan of trade that is satisfying U.S. demand and spurring the Mexican economy. 

 The big question now is whether the government will refinance debt born out of Latin America's default of the 'Eighties. Retiring more than $17 billion in outstanding Brady bonds could go a long way toward solidifying Mexico's break with economic management debacles of the past, analysts say. 

Document b000000020010803dw3d000rl




 Business 
 PROCTER & GAMBLE NEWS HURTS CHICAGO-AREA FOOD COMPANIES 

 Bill Barnhart, Tribune Markets Columnist 
637 words
12 March 2000
Chicago Tribune
TRIB
Chicagoland Final ; C
2
English
 (Copyright 2000 by the Chicago Tribune) 

 A rocky week on Wall Street, in which the Dow Jones industrials slipped as Nasdaq soared, left most major area companies unscathed. Food companies, an important sector in the Chicago stock portfolio, suffered the most after a profit warning by Procter & Gamble hurt consumer products generally. 

 The stock price of Chicago-based Quaker Oats dropped 9.6 percent for the week to $46.69; shares of chewing gum-maker Wm. Wrigley Jr. lost 5.2 percent, finishing at $61.69--both 52-week closing lows. 

 The two biggest winners were Lisle-based electronic equipment maker Molex, where shares jumped 38 percent to $62.65, and Chicago- based phone service provider Focal Communications, up 18.6 percent, to a 52-week closing high of $57. Neither Molex nor Focal announced any news that would explain their rallies. 

 CHICAGO'S TOP 50 

 Based on market capitalization of public companies as of March 10, 2000. 

 RANKING 

 COMPANY 

 FRI. 

 VALUE 

 CHG. 

 3/10 

 3/3 

 CLOSE 

 (MIL.) 

 (MIL.) 

 1 

 1 

 Motorola 

 172.50 

 105,068 

 -1,713 

 2 

 2 

 Abbott Laboratories 

 30.94 

 47,092 

 -2,283 

 3 

 3 

 McDonald's 

 31.75 

 42,990 

 -761 

 4 

 4 

 Bank One 

 24.62 

 28,241 

 -431 

 5 

 5 

 Walgreen 

 24.50 

 24,652 

 -20 

 6 

 6 

 Tellabs 

 57.00 

 22,929 

 1,031 

 7 

 8 

 Baxter Intl. 

 56.06 

 16,656 

 -167 

 8 

 9 

 Illinois Tool Works 

 54.37 

 16,338 

 -226 

 9 

 7 

 Household Intl. 

 32.75 

 15,397 

 -1,821 

 10 

 13 

 Molex 

 62.67 

 15,363 

 4,234 

 11 

 10 

 Allstate 

 17.94 

 14,446 

 -1,158 

 12 

 11 

 Sara Lee 

 14.56 

 12,937 

 0 

 13 

 12 

 Northern Trust 

 52.31 

 11,644 

 -1,043 

 14 

 14 

 Sears Roebuck 

 27.75 

 10,488 

 -118 

 15 

 15 

 Tribune 

 37.19 

 8,836 

 59 

 16 

 16 

 Unicom 

 37.56 

 8,167 

 -95 

 17 

 20 

 Comdisco 

 53.00 

 8,097 

 1,413 

 18 

 17 

 Wm. Wrigley Jr. 

 61.69 

 7,169 

 -392 

 19 

 18 

 Tele. & Data Sys. 

 106.00 

 6,546 

 -586 

 20 

 19 

 Quaker Oats 

 46.69 

 6,203 

 -656 

 21 

 21 

 Equity Office Prop. Tr.  24.56 

 6,193 

 47 

 22 

 24 

 U.S. Cellular 

 69.00 

 6,040 

 99 

 23 

 22 

 Aon 

 21.56 

 5,533 

 -578 

 24 

 23 

 Aerial Comm. 

 52.69 

 4,990 

 -1,037 

 25 

 25 

 Equity Res. Prop. Tr. 

 39.37 

 4,977 

 -87 

 26 

 26 

 CNA Financial 

 26.06 

 4,805 

 -150 

 27 

 27 

 Fort James 

 19.00 

 4,111 

 257 

 28 

 30 

 ServiceMaster 

 11.94 

 3,706 

 -19 

 29 

 29 

 W.W. Grainger 

 39.62 

 3,700 

 -87 

 30 

 28 

 Fortune Brands 

 22.25 

 3,650 

 -144 

 31 

 32 

 Focal Communications 

 57.00 

 3,457 

 542 

 32 

 31 

 Smurfit-Stone Cont. 

 14.69 

 3,196 

 -28 

 33 

 33 

 Whittman-Hart 

 49.00 

 2,773 

 -106 

 34 

 35 

 CDW Computer Ctrs. 

 63.81 

 2,757 

 116 

 35 

 34 

 UAL 

 47.19 

 2,396 

 -303 

 36 

 36 

 R.R. Donnelley 

 19.12 

 2,356 

 -236 

 37 

 37 

 Unitrin 

 32.97 

 2,340 

 95 

 38 

 40 

 Andrew 

 28.56 

 2,300 

 85 

 39 

 49 

 Diamond Tech. Partners 

 99.75 

 2,123 

 528 

 40 

 39 

 Navistar 

 33.50 

 2,082 

 -148 

 41 

 41 

 Keebler Foods 

 24.87 

 2,081 

 -73 

 42 

 38 

 Methode Electronics 

 57.00 

 2,051 

 -183 

 43 

 44 

 Allscripts 

 84.12 

 2,031 

 148 

 44 

 42 

 Zebra Technologies 

 62.94 

 1,970 

 -118 

 45 

 45 

 True North Comm. 

 40.00 

 1,928 

 49 

 46 

 47 

 NiSource 

 14.69 

 1,836 

 172 

 47 

 43 

 Heller Financial 

 18.25 

 1,771 

 -231 

 48 

 46 

 Galileo Intl. 

 18.94 

 1,713 

 23 

 49 

 48 

 USG 

 32.12 

 1,588 

 -37 

 50 

 54 

 GATX 

 31.12 

 1,529 

 39 

 GRAPHIC 

Document trib000020010813dw3c00ih3




YOUR MONEY STOCKS
 BUSINESS & MONEY 
 WORRIES OVER MARKET CAN BE SHORTSIGHTED 

 Lauren Rudd 
640 words
12 March 2000
Orlando Sentinel
ORSE
METRO
H2
English
 (Copyright 2000 by The Orlando Sentinel) 

 Stock prices crumbled Tuesday, with the Dow Jones industrial average falling to its lowest level in nearly a year after a profitwarning from Procter & Gamble sparked a sell-off of "old economy" shares. 

 Once again, Wall Street is acting out a well-known fairy tale in reverse - kissing blue chip companies and turning them into frogs. 

 Cheering in the bleachers is Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan, who warned us a couple of times last week that interest rates would keep going up until the economy cools down. 

 As a result, well-known, prestigious blue chip companies have had to stand by and watch as the jaws of discontentment rip large pieces out of their market capitalization. 

 Procter & Gamble lost 31 percent of its value in a single day because next quarter's earnings will be somewhat less than a year ago. And yet corporate infants, for whom the word profit requires a dictionary, seem to be always one step ahead of the hangman. 

 Take heart. Exhaustive analysis of more than 70 years of stock- price data continues to support two key hypotheses about the stock market. 

 The first is that, over the long run, stocks provide an average annual compounded total return of about 11 percent. The second is that, in the short run, stocks are volatile. 

 Yes, stocks can fall in price, and occasionally the angle of descent will take your breath away. 

 John Maynard Keynes, the renowned British economist and a very successful investor, once said there is no shame at being found still owning a share of stock at the bottom of a price decline. "It is not the business, far less the duty, of a serious investor to be constantly considering whether he should cut and run," he said, "or to feel himself open to blame if the price of his stock depreciates." 

 From time to time, Keynes noted, "It is the duty of a serious investor to accept the depreciation of his holdings with equanimity. An investor should be aiming primarily at long-period results, and should be solely judged by these." 

 To their good fortune, many of today's investors have never been through one of Wall Street's really nasty upheavals. Many seem to think declines and upheavals have been outlawed. They haven't. Wall Street is not Main Street. And while the bumps in the road are never fun, they do occur. The rub, of course, is that knowing exactly when they will occur requires a crystal ball. 

 If the value of your portfolio temporarily falls in value, should you really care? The key is to avoid permanent losses. Those are the losses you incur if and when you panic and sell because you are certain the next apocalypse is right around the corner. 

 In the world of investing, myopia is more common than farsightedness. You might think you'll be able to keep your eyes on the distant prize if one or more of your stocks fall out of bed, but can you be sure? Just declaring yourself a patient, long-term investor does not automatically make you one. Most investors have a certain threshold for the amount of pain they can endure from the market. Once that threshold is exceeded, logic goes out the window. 

 Do not try to match, or outwit, the changing moods of Wall Street. Instead, set reasonable investment goals designed to meet your long- term objectives. 

 And don't lose sight of the fact that substantial price declines often result in excellent profit opportunities. 

Lauren Rudd is a Savannah, Ga.-based free-lance writer specializing in equity investments. Address: Lauren Rudd, Stocks, The Orlando Sentinel, P.O. Box 211, Orlando, 32802. Send e-mail to LvERudd@aol.com

Document orse000020010809dw3c00d4p




Extra Dividends
BUSINESS
PROCTER & GAMBLE PROFIT PROBLEMS HAVE FAMILIAR RING

Barnet D. Wolf 
Dispatch Business Reporter
1,047 words
12 March 2000
The Columbus Dispatch
CLMB
Home Final
01H
English
(c) 2000 Columbus Dispatch. All Rights Reserved. 

The bigger they are, the farther they fall.

Just ask the shareholders of Procter & Gamble, the Cincinnati-based consumer-products behemoth that makes Bounty paper towels, Crest toothpaste, Tide detergent, Olestra fat substitute and hundreds of other household goods.

P&G joined the growing ranks of slaughtered stocks last week after acknowledging Tuesday that rising costs and increased competition will cause its fiscal third-quarter earnings to fall well below expectations.

Instead of a projected 7 percent to 9 percent increase in profits over the similar quarter last year, net income likely will fall as much as 11 percent.

The problem wasn't only the earnings warning. Almost as troublesome was its timing -- one week after the company assured investors it would meet its profit and sales goals.

In the hours after the P&G announcement, the company's stock plunged a breathtaking 31 percent and closed for the day at $60 per share, its lowest level in three years. Nearly $36 billion in value evaporated.

P&G is such a major U.S. company -- it's one of 30 stocks that makes up the Dow Jones industrial average -- that the earnings warning rippled through the market. Led by P&G's decline, the Dow dropped a whopping 374 points on the day.

The bleeding continued -- albeit more slowly -- the rest of the week, with the share price dropping another 7 percent. The stock was trading Friday at less than $56 per share, a decline of 52 percent from its Jan. 12 peak of 118 %BC% .

To put that in dollar terms, an investor with 100 shares of P&G stock lost $6,200 in two short months and more than $3,600 last week.

P&G Chief Executive Durk Jager said that despite the earnings warning, he was "very confident'' that the company would meet its fourth-quarter profit forecast. If he's right, the company is likely to see its stock make a recovery. But Jager also knows how important it is for P&G to get new products to market quickly, boost sales and ensure that profits hit their targets.

"This is not a world any more when you can disappoint twice,'' he said. "You can be once forgiven, but not a second time.''

The worst thing that could happen at this point is for the company to mimic Bank One, which has performed its version of water torture on investors the past eight months by lowering earnings expectations on several occasions.

Every time a warning came, Bank One shares declined. A chart of the stock resembles a step ladder, descending from left to right.

Bank One issued its latest warning a little more than a week ago. The rare mid-quarter statement told financial analysts that earnings projections for the company's first three months are too high.

Investors have seen this act so often that the latest warning caused only a relatively small blip.

At the same time, the latest earnings warning should help show that Bank One's problems are not entirely the fault of John B. McCoy, the bank's former chief executive who retired late last year under pressure. Now, his interim replacement, Verne Istock, is taking the heat.

The latest Bank One earnings news didn't occur in a vacuum. Even as the bank continues to go about its day-to-day business, the company's board of directors is searching for McCoy's permanent successor.

Bank One isn't releasing the names of those at the top of the search list, although Istock has acknowledged that he wants the job and would serve if chosen. But a number of names have surfaced during the past few months.

Among those mentioned: Bill Aldinger, chief executive of Household International; Jamie Dimon, formerly of Citigroup; Jerry Grundhofer, chief executive of Firstar; and Phil Heasley, an executive at U.S. Bancorp.

John R. Hall, a Bank One director and former Ashland Inc. chairman who leads the search committee, says fewer than 10 candidates are under consideration, and the final choice is expected before the May 16 annual shareholders meeting.

While Istock may want the job, a growing number of investors and analysts want the post to be offered to an outsider.

There are reasons for this, not the least of which is to halt the culture war that's existed at Bank One since it acquired First Chicago-NBD in 1998.

It's no secret people at the two companies didn't like the merger. A few Chicagoans refer to Bank One veterans as "our Columbus country cousins,'' while Bank Oners believe their First Chicago partners are condescending.

Istock had led First Chicago-NBD before it was acquired by Bank One.

Hiring an outsider "is a must,'' said analyst Thomas K. Brown, a Miami University graduate and former Kemper Financial Services researcher who began Second Curve Capital, a New York hedge fund.

This "has nothing to do with Verne Istock's qualifications to be a CEO,'' or that of any other insider, Brown said. Instead, it's the only way to stop the infighting.

Hiring a leader from outside the bank also is essential to rebuilding the company's credibility on Wall Street. And it would seem to be the only alterative to Bank One putting up a "for-sale'' sign.

One thing is certain: If an outsider is hired to lead Bank One, all bets are off on where the company's headquarters will be located.

The home base was moved to Chicago because it helped grease the merger with First Chicago and because McCoy apparently wanted to live there.

Bank One directors, members of the Columbus community and even a few analysts have indicated that they would like to see the company move its home office back to central Ohio as part of a fresh start.

But the most important task is to find a strong new CEO, who will have no intention of picking a fight early on over the location of a headquarters. That will have to wait.

Barnet D. Wolf -- bwolf@dispatch.com -- writes about business issues for The Dispatch. 

Document clmb000020010804dw3c005no




 Business 
 MARKET CATCHES BREATH AFTER WHIRL NASDAQ TARRIES AT NEW HIGH WHILE THE DOW, OTHER INDEXES FALL BACK 

 George Gunset and Bill Barnhart, Tribune Staff Writers Tribune news services contributed to this report 
884 words
11 March 2000
Chicago Tribune
TRIB
Chicagoland Final ; N
1
English
 (Copyright 2000 by the Chicago Tribune) 

 A wild week of wide price swings came to an inconclusive close on Wall Street Friday as buyers and sellers wearily toted up the gains and losses. 

 Stock prices churned lower for the most part on Friday as the Nasdaq composite index, after smashing through 5000 on Thursday, stalled at higher levels and investors showed little appetite to follow through on a recovery from the big slump earlier in the week. 

 The Nasdaq did manage to eke out a gain of 1.76 to close at a new record of 5048.62. But the Dow Jones industrial average, Standard & Poor's 500 stock index, and Russell 2000 index of small capitalization stocks all retreated. Losers topped winners by a 4-3 ratio on the New York Stock Exchange where floor volume came to 1.3 billion shares. 

 Investors turned cautious ahead of a week filled with potentially market-moving economic reports and the prospect of more first- quarter profit warnings. 

 The Nasdaq composite index, which on Thursday closed above 5000 for the first time, scampered to 5132 in the morning but then retreated. For the week, the index rose by 133.83, or 2.7 percent. 

 The history of Nasdaq millennium points sends a mixed signal for the short term. One month after reaching 1000, 2000, 3000 and 4000, the index was up twice and down twice. 

 Meanwhile, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 81.91, to 9928.82. The loss for the week totaled 438.38, or 4.2 percent. 

 Another profit warning by a consumer products company--this time, soapmaker Dial--hit the blue-chip consumer non-durable stocks. Dial dropped $3.25, or 23 percent, to $11. 

 The Dial profit warning, based on price competition in South American detergent sales and disappointing results with Armour canned meats, extended the impact of the P&G warning three days earlier. 

 "The cockroach theory prevails," Prudential Securities analyst Bryan Piskorowski told BridgeNews. "But this is symptomatic of an environment that favors tech. Value stocks are not dead, but they are on a respirator." 

 On Tuesday, a profit warning by Procter & Gamble sent blue chips broadly lower. P&G, one of the 30 Dow industrials, fell $4.37 to a 52- week closing low, $53.37, Friday. 

 Hewlett-Packard, another Dow 30 stock, traded in a wide range, reaching a new high of $155.50 but closing down $5.12, to $146.75. Other big-name tech stocks fared better. Microsoft gained $1, to $101; Qualcom added $9.12, to $136.12. 

 The S&P 500 index eased 6.62 to close at 1395.07 as it shed 14.10, or 1 percent, for the week. The Russell 2000 slipped 2.31 to 603.81. In the week it added 1 percent, or 5.93. 

 Locally, Chicago-based phone service provider Focal Communications jumped $11.25, to $57, after hitting a record high, $73, during the session. The company said it could cite no reason for action in the stock. Lisle-based Tellabs, continuing its recovery from a recent slump, gained $2.37, to $57. 

 Shares of GATX, which leases railroad cars and owns and operates tank storage terminals and pipelines, rose $1.25 to $31.12. Billionaire investor Warren Buffett disclosed he had raised his stake in the Chicago-based company to 14.9 percent from 5.4 percent. 

 Treasury securities slipped as anxiety began to build about next week's economy reports, which include producer prices and consumer prices for February. The Federal Reserve's interest rate policy committee is set to meet March 21. 

 The Nasdaq's stunning gains this year, and its seemingly unstoppable velocity, have confirmed the index as the top-performing and fastest-growing barometer of the U.S. stock market. 

 The index is now up 24 percent for the year, compared with a more than 13 percent loss for its blue-chip counterpart, the Dow Jones industrial average. The shining performance of the Nasdaq has provided the only real light for investors this year. The market is constantly expanding with new stocks that tap into the investor obsession with anything concerning computers, telecommunications, biotechnology and, of course, the Internet--all of which have come to symbolize the "new economy." 

 Meanwhile, most other stocks have been stuck in a narrow range, hemmed in by worries about inflation and rising interest rates. Blue- chip stocks have been especially moribund. 

 Financial shares, which have been punished recently amid interest- rate worries, were looking more attractive Friday as the market realized that these companies are enjoying revenue increases because of the rising volume of stock trading. American Express was the biggest gainer among Dow components, rising $3.94 to $126.69. Charles Schwab rose $6.75 to $52.25. 

 Goldman Sachs rose $5.06 to $112.25 on volume heavy enough to prompt the New York Stock Exchange to ask the firm to explain the unusual market activity. Goldman Sachs declined to comment. 

 GRAPHIC; Caption: GRAPHIC: Dow Jones, S&P 500 and Nasdaq performance Source: Bridge Chicago Tribune - See microfilm for complete graphic. 

Document trib000020010813dw3b00i0g




On personal finance
 Business 
 MARKET SAG PUTS A HARSHER LIGHT ON FUNDS' FEES 

 Andrew Leckey 
712 words
11 March 2000
Chicago Tribune
TRIB
Chicagoland Final ; N
1
English
 (Copyright 2000 by the Chicago Tribune) 

 When the stock market throws some ice cold water in your face, as it has recently, you start to notice a few things. 

 Such as how much you're paying in expenses on your mutual funds. These costs are overlooked when returns are going up, up and away. But they stand out when your fund's experiencing troubles. It's no surprise that the number of letters this column has received lately from readers criticizing fees on the funds they hold correlates to the sub-par performance of some of those funds. 

 The recent vulnerable, volatile market, symbolized by the tailspin that followed Procter & Gamble's profit warning, indicates it's high time to examine exactly how much you're paying on your funds. 

 The annual expense ratio, representing a fund's cost of doing business as a percent of its assets, is the best place to start. It includes management fees and all operating costs except brokerage fees and annual account maintenance fees. Annual expense ratios below 0.5 percent are generally considered low, while those above 1.5 percent are deemed high. The average annual expense ratio of U.S. diversified stock funds is 1.43 percent; small-cap funds 1.59; international funds 1.71; government bond funds 1.09; and bond funds 0.94 percent. 

 "People don't really notice mutual fund expenses when stocks are going up because, while they drag on your portfolio a little bit, they don't seem like a big deal," said Edward Foster, chief investment strategist with Fabian Investment Resources in Huntington Beach, Calif. "But if your fund is down 10 percent because the market is down, and you add another 2 percent, the resulting 12 percent loss is a very big deal." 

 Be an active shareholder, Foster advised, keeping track of exactly what your funds require in expenses. If you notice other funds charging less, it's obviously something that is quite possible to accomplish. 

 Some excellent low-expense stock funds that Foster currently recommends include Transamerica Small Company Fund, with a 1.4 percent annual expense ratio and 171 percent one-year return; Janus Growth & Income Fund, with a 0.90 percent expense ratio and 53 percent one-year return; and Janus Worldwide Fund, with a 0.88 percent expense ratio and 81 percent one-year return. 

 "If you go back historically, lower-cost funds tend to have higher returns than high-cost funds," said Scott Cooley, equity fund analyst with the Morningstar Mutual Funds investment advisory in Chicago. "Buying a low-cost fund doesn't guarantee good performance, but in certain areas, such as bond funds, it can be more important than even management skill." 

 Furthermore, higher-cost funds sometimes take greater risks with their portfolio to try to overcome the handicap they face to begin with, Cooley added. 

 Some low-cost funds highly rated by Morningstar include Fidelity Fund, with a 0.55 percent expense ratio and 21 percent one-year return; Vanguard Growth & Income Fund, with a 0.36 percent expense ratio and 13 percent one-year return; Third Avenue Value Fund, with a 1.10 percent expense ratio and 35 percent one-year return; TIAA-CREF International Equity Fund, with a 0.49 percent expense ratio and 74 percent one-year return. 

 Don't consider fees and expenses only, since overall performance of a fund is obviously most important, but do understand the different costs you may encounter. 

 These are the types of transaction expenses that can be charged directly to the investor's account: 

 A front-end sales charge or "load" is attached to the initial purchase of mutual fund shares. This fee is to compensate a financial professional for his or her services. By law, this charge may not exceed 8.5 percent of the initial investment. . 

 A contingent deferred sales charge, imposed at redemption, is another way to compensate the financial professionals for services. It typically applies for the first few years of ownership and then disappears. 

 A redemption fee is another type of back-end charge for redeeming shares. It is expressed as a dollar amount or as a percentage of the redemption price. 

Document trib000020010813dw3b00i0c




MARKET WATCH
 Report on Business Column 
 P&G bloodbath all about lack of leverage 

 STEPHEN NORTHFIELD 
1,042 words
11 March 2000
The Globe and Mail
GLOB
Metro
B11
English
 All material copyright Thomson Canada Limited or its licensors. All rights reserved. 

 The shock of watching a stalwart blue chip like Procter & Gamble take a $36-billion (U.S.) haircut over a botched quarter was palpable in the markets this week. After all, investors have relied on standbys like P&G to form a chunk of the no-brainer, hold-em-till-you-die part of their portfolios for years. If P&G isn't safe, what is? 

 It's tempting to conclude something new is happening here, but it isn't. It was simply P&G's bad fortune to deliver the worst possible message at the worst possible time, that's all. With most of the so-called Old Economy blue chips in retreat, the last thing jittery investors needed to hear was that one of the bluest of the blue was going to miss its numbers by a huge margin. The fact that P&G had been priming the market for weeks that it would meet forecasts accounts for the viciousness of the response. 

 The real story behind the P&G bloodbath is the division of the corporate universe by investors between those companies that have the leverage to grow, and those that don't. Investors have been moving in this direction for years -- they've just been moving a little more hastily in recent times. 

 Consider the box P&G is in. A powerful, brand-focused consumer giant, the company's top-line growth has been fairly flat in recent years. Earnings growth has been better, but only by wringing out costs and efficiencies across its 300 product lines. Hopes for stronger sales growth hinges on global expansion and more cost-cutting. (P&G announced last year it plans to chop 15,000 jobs worldwide by 2005.) 

 In a desperate bid to kickstart growth, P&G flirted earlier this year with taking a run at Warner-Lambert or American Home Products. The market, horrified at the prospect of the maker of Tide and Pampers getting into prescription drugs, took the boots to the stock. 

 Worst of all, P&G's earnings warning this week confirmed how vulnerable these consumer behemoths are to the vagaries of the old-fashioned economy. The company blamed the expected profit shortfall on rising raw material costs. Normally, this wouldn't be fatal; companies would simply pass those costs along to consumers. 

 But here's the rub: In spite of all the moaning about the threat from inflation, companies like P&G have found it impossible to raise prices. While input costs are rising and labour markets are tightening, for the most part there's few signs of inflation on the store shelves. 

 That's the real reason investors are rushing for the exits. While P&G may very well find its corporate legs again, why should investors bother when there are companies with explosive growth prospects out there? 

 To greater or lesser degrees, that's the same dynamic that afflicts most of the Old Economy stocks. While at some point the stocks of these companies may simply become too cheap to ignore, it's clear we're a ways from that yet as far as investors are concerned. 

 Ironically, Federal Reserve Board chairman Alan Greenspan's vigilance may be helping to widen the divide between the Old and New Economy stocks. The Fed's resolute, pre-emptive stance has kept a lid on prices throughout the 1990s. Mature, consumer industries are price takers in this environment, which means continued pressure on profits unless that can be offset by a combination of productivity gains and continual cost-cutting. 

 So far, the companies are losing that battle. As Salomon Smith Barney strategist Marshall Acuff pointed out in a recent report, profit margins for non-financial companies in the United States peaked in mid-1997. Tellingly, that wasn't long before the broader equity market began to weaken and the stampede toward technology stocks began. 

 Why technology? Simple -- they have the leverage to grow. First, they have some pricing power because what they offer is often unique. That's an advantage that can disappear quickly as the leaders are overrun by new competitors, but there's always a new game in town for investors. 

 Second, there's enormous potential for top-line growth, even if the product itself isn't unique. Often, the technology simply enables the New Economy companies to beat the Old Economy outfits at their game. Amazon is just a bookseller; it's the distribution channel that's different. Ditto eBay, Pets.com and the rest of the crowd. 

 "If the disinflation theme is sustained thanks to central bank intervention, then business models dependent upon unit growth rather than on higher pricing should continue to be attractive investments," Mr. Acuff says. 

 The challenge for many of the New Economy stories is to figure out a way to convert rapid sales growth into rising profitability -- in many cases simply being profitable would be a huge advance. Many of the upstarts will remain vulnerable to profit fatigue among investors who grow impatient waiting for all the hype to translate into results. But, again, we're not there yet. 

 So where does this leave the Old Economy stocks, and to a lesser extent, the broader market? Out of favour at the moment maybe, but not out of the race. 

 The success stories will be those companies that can figure out a way to connect the old with the new, be it Maytag building smart fridges that tell you when you're out of milk or Ford sourcing cheaper parts over the Internet. 

 And the sooner the better. As stock prices drift lower, the window for many Old Economy companies to acquire the technology and expertise required to get back in the game is closing. As an investor, it'd be wise to avoid companies that show no inclination toward defending their franchises from competitors who threaten to harness the new technology and eat their lunch. 

 Stephen Northfield is Investment Editor. Market Watch readers can reach him at 416-585-5454, or send e-mail to snorthfield@globeandmail.ca 

Document glob000020010806dw3b00c5b




YESTERDAY'S MARKETS
 Report on Business: Money & Markets 
 'Single-minded focus' on high-tech stocks drives up TSE 300 Nasdaq hits yet another record high one day after breaking through 5,000 

Bloomberg Business News
508 words
11 March 2000
The Globe and Mail
GLOB
Metro
B12
English
 All material copyright Thomson Canada Limited or its licensors. All rights reserved. 

 Canadian stocks rose yesterday, led by Nortel Networks Corp. and Internet-related companies, as stock splits, strong earnings and new products in the industry spur fresh demand for the shares. 

 "It's a single-minded focus on tech and nothing else matters," said Rick Hutcheon, chief investment officer at Nova Bancorp Investment Management Ltd. "It doesn't matter how much profit other stocks are making or how cheap they are -- people just don't want them." 

 Perigee Inc. led fund managers higher after Baltimore-based Legg Mason Inc. offered $305-million for the company. 

 The Toronto Stock Exchange 300-stock composite index added 73.47 points to 9,487.14. Seven stocks rose for every six that fell. The Standard & Poor's-TSE 60 index gained 3.81 points to 547.69. A total of 225 million shares changed hands in Toronto, valued at about $3.8-billion. Winners beat losers 630 to 550; 279 held firm. 

 Nortel, North America's No. 2 phone equipment maker, added $2.05 to $180.50. BCE Inc., which owns 39.2 per cent of Nortel, advanced $3.50 to $177.50. Descartes Systems Group Inc. soared $30 to $131, gaining for a second day after it signed an agreement with InterWorld Corp. to develop Internet commerce systems. Griffiths McBurney & Partners reiterated its "focus buy" rating and $160 target for the stock. Perigee surged $5.25 to $21.75. 

 In New York, the Dow Jones industrial average wrapped up its fourth losing week in five, dropping 81.91 points to 9,928.82, as investors sold Procter & Gamble Co. and Hewlett-Packard Co. shares. 

 About 1.1 billion shares traded on the Big Board, with declining issues outpacing advancers 1,719 to 1,221, with 508 unchanged. 

 Meanwhile, the Nasdaq Stock Market finished its sixth-straight winning week by eking out another record close, 5,048.62, up 1.76 points. Investors snapped up shares of past leaders including Microsoft Corp. and Intel Corp., as well as newer favourites such as Qualcomm Inc. and JDS Uniphase Corp. 

 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 6.62 points to 1,395.07. 

 More than four stocks fell for every three that rose as 1.1 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board. More than 1.9 billion shares traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market, the seventh-highest volume ever. 

 Procter & Gamble fell $4.37 (U.S.) to $53.37. The shares have lost 39 per cent since Tuesday's profit warning. 

 In Vancouver, the Canadian Venture Exchange index rose 102.25 points to 4,454.75. 

 New York odd lots 

 Odd-lot trades made Thursday through the New York Stock Exchange: 


Customer purchases  6,156,361  Short sales  348,544
Other sales         6,396,030  Total sales  6,744,574


Document glob000020010806dw3b00c3u




Stock Markets
 Financial Post Investing 
 Dow slips, but Nasdaq hits high: Techs, resources lift TSE 

Financial Post, with files from news services
1,295 words
11 March 2000
National Post
FINP
National !@SERIES=
C02
English
 (c) Copyright 2000 Financial Post from National Post (formerly The Financial Post Company). All rights reserved. 

 U.S. blue-chip stocks dropped yesterday as another consumer products company issued an earnings warning, reinforcing fears that traditional manufacturing businesses are suffering amid price wars, higher raw materials costs and rising interest rates. 

 But the technology-laced Nasdaq composite index, which closed above the 5000 level for the first time on Thursday, hit another closing high, gaining 1.76 points to close at 5048.62. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average slipped 81.91 points, or 0.8%, to 9928.82. The Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 6.62 points, or 0.5%, to 1395.07. 

 For the week the Dow dropped 438.38 points or 4.2%, the S&P 500 slipped 14.10 points or 1.0% and the Nasdaq gained 133.83 points or 2.7%. 

 Dial Corp., a maker of soaps, laundry detergent and other products, said it faced a 10% to 12% drop in its first-half profits just two days after industry giant Procter & Gamble Co. shocked investors with a profit warning. 

 Dial (DL/NYSE) fell $3 1/4 to $11, sending the stock to levels not seen since late 1994. P&G dropped $4 5/16 to $53 1/16. (All Wall Street issues in U.S. dollars.) 

 Shares of investment bank Goldman Sachs (GS/NYSE) jumped $4 5/8 to $111 13/16. 

 Internet software provider Selectica Inc. (SLTC/NASDAQ) soared on its first day of trading, rising $111 15/64 to $141 15/64, almost quadrupling its $30 offering price. 

 Another new issue, OTG Software Inc. (OTGS/NASDAQ) jumped $37 3/16 to $56 3/16 on its first day of trading, lifted by optimism over the booming data storage management sector. 

 Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was 1.14 billion shares, compared with 1.13 billion on Thursday. 

 The Canadian stock market's key index ended higher, buoyed by strength in the technology sector and forest product stocks. 

 The Toronto Stock Exchange's 300 composite index rose 73.47 points, or 0.8%, to 9487.14. The blue-chip S&P/TSE 60 benchmark also performed well, ending up 3.81 points, or 0.7%, at 547.69. 

 Nortel Networks Corp. and BCE Inc. contributed solidly to the TSE 300's rise, as Nortel (NT/TSE) gained $2.05 to $180.50 and BCE (BCE/TSE) was up $3.50 to $177.50. 

 Other technology stocks also did well. Celestica Inc. (CLS/TSE) gained $2.85 to $75.55, Cognos Inc. (CSN/TSE) rose $3.25 to $98.25 and Cognicase Inc. (COG/TSE) climbed $3.50 to $64.50. 

 The forest products sector rose 2.4% to lead the advancers. Donohue Inc.'s class A shares (DHCa/TSE) gained $1.05 to $32.60. Abitibi-Consolidated Inc. has made a takeover offer for Donohue that expires March 20. 

 For the week the 300 gained 24.24 points or 0.3%, while the 60 was up 5.15 points or 0.9%. 

 Volume on the TSE was 221.0 million shares, compared with 222.5 million on Thursday. 

 The Canadian Venture Exchange index gained 102.25 points, or 2.4%, to 4454.75 -- a gain on the week of 282.61 points or 6.8%. 

 CANADIAN STOCKS: 

 Net               % 52W         52W 

 Index                     Close         chg           chg       high low 

 TSE 300             9487.14   +73.47       +0.78 9662.06 6477.27 

 TSE 200               536.29     +5.20       +0.98   547.03   387.46 

 TSE 100               582.78     +4.32       +0.75   595.87   394.06 

 S&P/TSE 60         547.69     +3.81       +0.70   563.90   378.13 

 Toronto 35         507.39     +3.63       +0.72   527.06   361.89 

 CDNX Index       4454.75 +102.25       +2.35 4458.25 1977.32 

 --Yr over       yr-- --Yr to   date-- 

 Index                 net chg     % chg   net chg     % chg 

 TSE 300           +2914.52   +44.34 +1073.39   +12.76 

 TSE 200             +150.05   +38.85     +73.04   +15.77 

 TSE 100             +181.41   +45.20     +63.73   +12.28 

 S&P/TSE 60       +163.12   +42.42     +51.83   +10.45 

 Toronto 35       +139.70   +37.99     +27.23     +5.67 

 CDNX Index             n.a.       n.a. +2117.30   +90.58 

 U.S. STOCKS: 

 Net %           52W         52W 

 Index                                 Close         chg           chg high       low 

 DJIA                               9928.82   -81.91       -0.82 11750.28 9625.21 

 S&P 500                         1395.07     -6.62       -0.47 1478.00 1233.66 

 NYSE Composite             599.34     -3.66       -0.61     663.50 572.38 

 Nasdaq Composite       5048.62     +1.76       +0.03   5132.52 2305.64 

 --Yr over       yr-- --Yr to date-- 

 Index                             net chg     % chg   net chg       % chg 

 DJIA                               +155.98     +1.60 -1568.30 -13.64 

 S&P 500                         +108.23     +8.41     -74.19 -5.05 

 NYSE Composite               -7.14     -1.18     -50.96       -7.84 

 Nasdaq Composite     +2642.62 +109.83   +979.29     +24.07 

 FINACIAL POST INDEXES: 

 Net               % 52W         52W 

 Index                         Close       chg           chg       high low 

 FPX Growth           1836.34   +2.43       +0.13 1839.99 1478.39 

 FPX Balanced       1709.04   +0.61       +0.04 1712.70 1448.42 

 FPX Income           1577.54   +1.61       +0.10 1581.13 1386.98 

 --Yr over     yr-- --Yr to   date-- 

 Index                     net chg   % chg   net chg     % chg 

 FPX Growth           +344.21 +23.07     +76.14     +4.33 

 FPX Balanced       +253.11 +17.38     +68.19     +4.16 

 FPX Income           +187.37 +13.48     +73.98     +4.92 

 Chart/Graph: Bloomberg / TSE 300 & DJIA: TSE 300, DJIA: (See print copy, pg. C2 for complete chart/graph), Chart/Graph: CANADIAN STOCKS: TSE 300 close: (See print copy, pg. C1, for complete chart/graph.), Chart/Graph: CANADIAN STOCKS: TSE volume: weekly, millions of shares: (See print copy, pg. C1, for complete chart/graph.), Chart/Graph: CANADIAN STOCKS: Last week, this week: (See print copy, pg. C1, for complete chart/graph.), Chart/Graph: CANADIAN STOCKS: daily, millions of shares: (See print copy, pg. C1, for complete chart/graph.), Table: CANADIAN STOCKS: Index, Close, Net chg., % chg., 52W high, 52W low, Year over year net chg., Year over year % chg., Year to date net chg., Year to date % chg.: (Table ran on pg. C1): (Online), Chart/Graph: U.S. STOCKS: DJ Industrial Average close: (See print copy, pg. C1, for complete graph.), Chart/Graph: U.S. STOCKS: NYSE volume: weekly, millions of shares: (See print copy, pg. C1, for complete graph.), Chart/Graph: U.S. STOCKS: Last week, this week: (See print copy, pg. D1, for complete graph.), Chart/Graph: U.S. STOCKS: daily, millions of shares: (See print copy, pg. C1, for complete graph.), Table: U.S. STOCKS: Index, Close, Net chg., % chg., 52W high, 52W low, Year over year net chg., Year over year % chg., Year to date net chg., Year to date % chg.: (Table ran on pg. C1) (Online), Chart/Graph: FINANCIAL POST INDEXES: Balanced: (See print copy, pg. C1, for complete graph.), Chart/Graph: FINANCIAL POST INDEXES: Last week, this week: (See print copy, pg. C1, for complete graph.), Table: FINANCIAL POST INDEXES: Index, close, Net chg., % chg., 52W high, 52W low, Year over year net chg., Year over year % chg., Year to date net chg., Year to date % chg.: (Table ran on pg. C1): (Online) 

Document finp000020010805dw3b0068w




Market Eye
 Financial Post Investing 
 The cold and old, the hot and new 

 William Hanley 
Financial Post
762 words
11 March 2000
National Post
FINP
National !@SERIES=
C01 / Front
English
 (c) Copyright 2000 Financial Post from National Post (formerly The Financial Post Company). All rights reserved. 

 "Holy cow!I'm rich," the Californian investor exclaimed to a reporter when asked what he thought about the news that the Nasdaq composite index had closed over 5000 on Thursday for the first time. 

 And that observation was likely repeated in one form or another across the United States by those people who have been investing in the technology stocks that populate Nasdaq. 

 That 5000 was first breached on Tuesday just as the plunge in the shares of Procter & Gamble Co. had stockholders reaching for the Depends was a stark reminder of how investors are embracing the new economy growth stocks and shunning the old economy value names dragging down the Dow Jones industrial average, which fell 374 points that day and is barely ahead of where it was a year ago. 

 A year ago, the Dow was set to break 10,000 any day -- it closed over that magic mark on March 29 amid much rejoicing -- and many of the technology, media and telecommunications issues that were to morph into the new economy were still viewed as highly speculative one-day wonders. P&G, meanwhile, was riding high, an unassailable purveyor of brand names worldwide. 

 Today, P&G, off more than 50% from its high after falling more than 30% on Tuesday, and most of its Dow co-members, including brand-name giants Coca-Cola Co. and McDonald's Corp., are giving new meaning to the term "blue chip." 

 Meantime, the Nasdaq composite, home to new economy issues and comprising more than half the value of the entire U.S. stock market, has 6000 in its sights. 

 Ed Yardeni, chief economist at Deutsche Banc Alex.Brown, sees P&G's profit warning-triggered stock sell-off as a "watershed" event. "Apparently, consumers are no longer willing to pay a premium for brand names," he says in a commentary on the new economy versus the old. "Investors are no longer willing to pay a premium for brand-name companies." 

 Yardeni believes the future of the old economy companies will contain a wave of global consolidations. But their efforts to improve productivity will not be helped by the U.S. Federal Reserve's tightening of monetary policy. Old economy firms are squeezed by higher debt financings while new economy companies have little long-term debt and have piles of cash or can raise it in the stock market or use their huge stock prices to buy smaller competitors. 

 --- 

 O yes, Canada: While the Canadian stock market and investors in it have suffered over the years from the deflationary direction of commodities in an old economy setting, the rocks and trees nature of our market is rapidly changing to a point where the Toronto Stock Exchange 300 composite index is more likely to follow Nasdaq than the Dow industrials. 

 The TSE 300, up 73.47 to 9487.14 on Friday, is closing in on 10,000 and a likely eclipse of the Dow, which is at 9928.82, this month if trends persist. 

 The Canada-watchers at Ned Davis Research Inc. report that their TSE large-cap growth index has clearly broken a long-term downtrend that began in 1982 while their small-cap growth index broke a downward trend that began in 1993. And both of the indexes have passed their value counterparts after underperforming them from 1996 to 1998. Further, the two small-cap indexes have outperformed their large counterparts. 

 To the Ned Davis researchers, these trends reflect a shift from the old economy stocks to the new ones, similar to what has happened in the United States and elsewhere. "Although growth stocks may be high risk near term, the break of these downtrend lines and establishment of new uptrends signal a shift in the composition of the Canadian economy toward growth-oriented industries such as telecommunications and biotechnology and away from value-oriented industries such as natural resources." 

 The change in the composition of the TSE 100 next Friday before the open of trading is another chapter in the continuing story of this shift. 

 In will come Descartes Systems Group Inc., Clearnet Communications Inc., Sierra Wireless Inc., CTV Inc., Certicom Corp., Four Seasons Hotels Inc., Rio Alto Exploration Ltd. and Precision Drilling Corp. 

 Out will go Hudson's Bay Co., Cameco Corp., Cominco Ltd., Rio Algom Ltd., Ipsco Inc., Moore Corp. Ltd., Investors Group Inc. and Burlington Resources Canada Inc. 

E-mail William Hanley at whanley@nationalpost.com

Document finp000020010805dw3b0068k


 Markets Close Out Hectic Week 

 George Gunset and Bill Barnhart 
952 words
11 March 2000
KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Chicago Tribune - Illinois
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 A wild week of wide price swings came to an inconclusive close on Wall Street Friday as buyers and sellers wearily toted up the gains and losses. 

 Stock prices churned lower for the most part on Friday as the Nasdaq composite index, after smashing through 5000 on Thursday, stalled at higher levels and investors showed little appetite to follow through on a recovery from the big slump earlier in the week. 

 The Nasdaq did manage to eke out a gain of 1.76 to close at a new record of 5048.62. But the Dow Jones industrial average, Standard & Poor's 500 stock index, and Russell 2000 index of small capitalization stocks all retreated. Losers topped winners by a 4 to 3 margin on the New York Stock Exchange where floor volume came to 1.3 billion shares. 

 Investors turned cautious ahead of a week filled with potentially market-moving economic reports and the prospect of more first-quarter profit warnings. 

 The Nasdaq composite index, which on Thursday closed above 5000 for the first time, scampered to 5132 in the morning but then retreated. For the week, the index rose by 133.84, or 2.7 percent. 

 The history of Nasdaq millennium points sends a mixed signal for the short-term. One month after reaching 1,000, 2000, 3,000 and 4,000, the index was up twice and down twice. 

 Meanwhile, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 81.81, to 9928.82. The loss for the week totaled 438.38, or 4.2 percent. 

 Another profit warnings by a consumer products company -- this time, soap maker Dial -- hit the blue-chip consumer nondurable stocks. Dial dropped $3.25, or 23 percent, to $11. 

 The Dial profit warning, based on price competition in South American detergent sales and disappointing results with Armour canned meats, extended the impact of the Procter & Gamble warning two days earlier. 

 "The cockroach theory prevails," Prudential Securities analyst Bryan Piskorowski told Bridge News. "But this is symptomatic of an environment that favors tech. Value stocks are not dead, but they are on a respirator." 

 Earlier in the week, a profit warning by Procter & Gamble sent blue-chips broadly lower. P&G, one of the 30 Dow industrials, fell $4.37 to a 52-week closing low, $53.37, in Friday's session. 

 Hewlett-Packard, another Dow 30 stock, traded in a wide range, reaching a new high of $155.50 but closing down $5.12, to $146.75. Other big-name tech stocks fared better. Microsoft gained $1, to $101; Qualcomm added $9.12, to $136.12. 

 The S&P 500 index eased 6.62 to close at 1395.07 as it shed 14.10, or 1 percent, for the week. The Russell 2000 slipped 2.24 to 603.81. In the week it added 1 percent, or 5.93. 

 Locally, Chicago-based phone service provider Focal Communications jumped $11.25, to $57, after hitting a record high, $73, during the session. The company said it could cite no reason for action in the stock. Lisle-based Tellabs, continuing its recovery from a recent slump, gained $2.37, to $57. 

 Shares of GATX, which leases railroad cars and owns and operates tank storage terminals and pipelines, rose $1.25 to $31.12. Billionaire investor Warren Buffett disclosee he had raised his stake in the Chicago-based company to 14.9 percent from 5.4 percent. 

 Treasury securities slipped as anxiety began to build regarding next week's economy reports, which include producer prices and consumer prices for February. The Federal Reserve's interest rate policy committee is set to meet March 21. 

 The Nasdaq's stunning gains this year, and its seemingly unstoppable velocity, have confirmed the index as the top-performing and fastest-growing barometer of the U.S. stock market. 

 The Nasdaq Stock Market launched the composite index 29 years ago as a way to measure the progress of fledgling companies too small or weak for the prestigious New York Stock Exchange. 

 The index is now up 24 percent for the year, compared with a more than 13 percent loss for its blue-chip counterpart, the Dow Jones industrial average. The Nasdaq's velocity is unmatched, as well; it took the Dow nearly nine months to rise from 4,000 and 5,000 in 1995. 

 The shining performance of the Nasdaq has provided the only real light for investors this year. The market is constantly expanding with new stocks that tap into the investor obsession with anything concerning computers, telecommunications, biotechnology and, of course, the Internet -- all of which have come symbolize the "new economy." 

 Meanwhile, most other stocks have been stuck in a narrow range, hemmed in by worries about inflation and rising interest rates. Blue-chip stocks -- the manufacturers, transportation, financial and other companies of the "old economy" -- have been especially moribund. 

 Some technology stocks continued to attract buyers. Dell Computer rose 81 cents to $51.25 after PaineWebber raised its rating on the stock to "buy." 

 Financial shares, which have been punished recently by investors worried about interest rates, were looking more attractive Friday as the market realized that these companies are enjoying revenue increases because of the rising volume of stock trading. American Express was the biggest gainer among Dow components, rising $3.94 to $126.69. Charles Schwab rose $6.75 to $52.25. 

 Goldman Sachs rose $5.06 to $112.25 on volume that heavy enough to prompt the New York Stock Exchange to ask the firm to explain the unusual market activity. Goldman Sachs declined to comment. 

 Tribune wires services contributed to this report. 

Document krtbn00020010807dw3b00jo1




BUSINESS
STOCKS SLIP ON DIAL  PROFIT WARNING 

FROM WIRE REPORTS 
405 words
11 March 2000
The Plain Dealer
CLEV
FINAL / ALL
4C
English
© 2000 The Plain Dealer.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.  All rights reserved.  

Stocks were mostly lower yesterday as the consumer products sector, already trampled by Procter &Gamble's disappointing earnings forecast, slipped further on a similar warning from Dial Corp. High- tech stocks also fell as investors cashed in some gains from the sector's rally. 

The Dow Jones industrial average fell 81.91 to 9,928.82, capping a highly volatile week. The Dow fell 438.38 points for the week, a loss of 4.2 percent. 

The NASDAQ composite index, which fluctuated between gains and losses throughout the session, finished up 1.76 at 5,048.62, achieving a new closing high by the slimmest of margins. The NASDAQ rose 133.83 points during the week, a gain of 2.7 percent. The Standard &Poor's 500 fell 6.62 to 1,395.07. 

Consumer products stocks struggled after Dial said its earnings for the first half of this year will be down at least 10 percent from a year ago. Its stock plunged $3.25 to $11 on the news. 

Dial was the second consumer products maker to warn of disappointing earnings this week. Procter &Gamble shook Wall Street Tuesday when it announced its third-quarter earnings would miss expectations. That sent the Dow tumbling nearly 375 points. 

Procter &Gamble fell $3.88 to $53.88 yesterday. Its shares have fallen 39 percent since Tuesday. 

Blue chip stocks have been most heavily affected by investors' fears that the Federal Reserve will continue raising interest rates this year to combat inflation. 

The NASDAQ's sprint to 5,000 this week prompted many investors to take a step back yesterday. The index closed above 5,000 for the first time Thursday. 

CMGI fell $8.94 to $136.44 and Oracle fell $2.38 to $81.63. Among Dow components, Hewlett-Packard fell 92 cents to $150.96. 

Some technology stocks continued to attract buyers. Dell Computer rose 81 cents to $51.25 after PaineWebber raised its rating on the stock to "buy." Qualcomm rose $9.13 to $136.13. 

Goldman Sachs rose $5.06 to $112.25 on volume heavy enough to prompt the New York Stock Exchange to ask the firm to explain the unusual market activity. Goldman Sachs declined to comment. 

Among local stocks, Park National rose $3.50 to $98 and Keithley Instruments rose $2.88 to $60.75.  

Document clev000020010804dw3b008iz


 Business 
 NYSE Activity Summary 

 Rhonda Schaffler, Greg Clarkin 
537 words
10 March 2000
21:00
CNNfn: Street Sweep
STSW
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 RHONDA SCHAFFLER, CNNfn ANCHOR, STREET SWEEP:  Let`s now go back to Greg Clarkin here on the other side of the New York Stock Exchange with a closer look at some of today`s movers. Greg? 

 GREG CLARKIN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT:  Hi, Rhonda. Let`s continue with the old economy category, shall we?  Speaking of Procter & Gamble (URL: http://www.pg.com/) , one of the questions investors have to ask themselves is that stock at these levels, is it something of a buy. As you mentioned, some folks are scratching their heads about it, but if you look from Tuesday morning to Friday afternoon, that stock lost 40 percent of its value, ended trading Monday at 88 and change, it now stands at $53 a share. That again on the heels of the profitwarning, and really why there are a lot of reasons why folks have sold Procter & Gamble.  We`ve got find some folks who believe there are a lot of reasons to buy it outside of the fact that it is possibly strict valuation of fundamental wise, maybe it`s something that stands out and screams at them, but still these companies don`t have a lot of appeal to folks today, and that`s why shares of Procter & Gamble ran smack into it today. 

 Other issues that made news today include shares of American Express (URL: http://www.americanexpress.com/) .  We saw big action in a lot of the financial stocks. There was takeover talks. American Express shares saw a nice bounce on the day. General Electric (URL: http://www.ge.com) , a big financial component  of GE Capital, that also saw a nice boost today up around 131 or so. At one point in the session it was up much stronger than that and it hung onto some of those gains. For the week, the Dow with a very weak performance, off better than 4 percent closing down almost 82 points at 10,010. 

 Rhonda, back to you. 

 SCHAFFLER: Thanks, Greg. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a  Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.)  No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or  other proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license  from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material.  This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document stsw000020010813dw3a000wp


 Business 
 IN THE MONEY 

 Bill Tucker, Terry Keenan, Daryn Kagan 
8,239 words
10 March 2000
16:00
CNNfn: In The Money
ITHM
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 TERRY KEENAN, CNN ANCHOR:  The morning after the Nasdaq powers its way to 5K, what stocks could pave the road to 6000?  And will the Dow ever catch up? 

 BILL TUCKER, CNN ANCHOR:  What`s the cure for Aetna?  Takeover, selloff the parts?  The health care giant is our "Stock of the Day. 

 KEENAN:  Two presidential candidates out for more prizes.  Today, three more primaries, one with a unique high-tech twist. 

 TUCKER:  And the beauty contest for the technically inclined. Competing for perhaps the most ignoble title of "Sexiest Geek Alive." 

 ANNOUNCER:  From CNN and CNNfn, this is IN THE MONEY with Bill Tucker, Terry Keenan and Daryn Kagan. 

 KEENAN:  Good morning, everyone, and welcome to IN THE MONEY. I`m Terry Keenan. 

 TUCKER:  And hello from Daryn Kagan and me as well.  I`m Bill Tucker. 

 One day after the Nasdaq closes above 5000 for the first time ever, it is Nasdaq 5100, blowing right by that barrier as well as techs continue their historic run. 

 KEENAN:  That`s right.  And the Dow joining in on the party, the week ending a whole lot better than it started on Wall Street.  You might remember the Dow was down about 600 points in the first couple days of trading.  Let`s go to source start, let`s start with board at the New York Stock Exchange, where we have a nice rally underway for the Dow 30. We are up about 50 points, and you can thank American Express and GE for most gains.  AMEX is up about four, while GE, as incredible move in that stock, up five, and that is something a lot of people have wanted to see because GE has been a poor performer ahead of a three-for-one stock split next month. 

 TUCKER:  I was going to say that, you know this stock announced a three-for-one split, Terry, and it headed down, it headed north -- south, which is very unusual for a stock to do that after announcing a split. 

 KEENAN:  Exactly, and normally GE splits two-for-one, I think the executives there thought that they would have a nice $50 stock, a $150 stock that split three-for-one, but they are looking at a $40 a share stock when it splits. 

 TUCKER:  Well, the techs are doing their share, too.  As well, you got Hewlett-Packard up about three, and that is helping power the Nasdaq. Look at that, 5120.  I mean, stop and think about that. Nasdaq 6000 looks like it might happen by the middle of April at this rate.  I mean, it looks like Moore`s Law being applied to theory of stocks here. 

 Look, and there is the bond market, Terry.  It really speaks for itself.  We have got a little bit of a sell-off there, but that yield on that 10-year note, holding very steady in the 6.40 range, where we have kind of grown accustomed to seeing it.  The yield today: 6.37 percent. 

 KEENAN:  OK, let`s look at what else is moving on the Big Board. We are above Dow 10,000, and quite comfortably so.  Let`s bring in Greg Clarkin. 

 And Greg, I assume the mood down there is a lot better than it was earlier in the week. 

 GREG CLARKIN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Exactly, Terry, and we are seeing the Dow tick up even as we speak.  It is up 62 points, now at 10072. But really we have been saying this for the last couple of days, the last couple of weeks really, we are seeing a real split, new economy, old economy, if you will, on the Dow today.  We are seeing the high-tech stocks, they are all positive to varying degrees.  We are seeing shares of Hewlett-Packard and IBM higher, shares of Intel, Microsoft, nicely higher. 

 But again, those consumer goods stocks are still taking it on chin. You remember Procter & Gamble, earlier this week, really triggered a bit of an earthquake on the NYSE with its profit warning. Procter & Gamble, down big today, as are shares of some of the other old-line stocks. 

 Boy, Coca-Cola off another buck and change.  It is down 1 11/16, trading now at just 45 and fraction or so. 

 And there are some of the movers that you can see there. American Express is up nicely.  GE, as Terry mentioned, up better than four. International Paper with a nice better-than-one gain. Microsoft, up better than two.  And P&G, again, down, the losses accelerating now, down better than three. 

 So we are seeing, again, a bit of a split here between those new stocks, and those old-economy stocks, and that is what`s really holding the Dow down a bit today actually because the index does look set to move higher.  It is up about 66 points now. 

 TUCKER:  Greg, it is not a Dow stock, but Schwab`s stock is moving well today.  It is up better than three.  What`s the deal with that stock?      CLARKIN:  Exactly, Bill.  Schwab, today, the beneficiary, if you will, of some very nice words, some very bullish words out of J.P. Morgan.  They upped their earnings estimates for this company, and also set their price target a little bit higher than it was.  That price target now is about $57 a share. 

 So let`s take a look, if we can, at some of the other brokerage houses, give you an idea of what they are doing in today`s trading. You can see everybody higher across the board, Merrill Lynch, Morgan, Goldman Sachs, Lehman Brothers, and DLJ, also gaining nicely, and getting a lot of this triggered by the kind words for Charles Schwab out of J.P. Morgan this morning. 

 KEENAN:  And, you know, the old adage, how Merrill Lynch goes, so goes the market.  That stock just a couple points off an all-time high.  So that is a good omen. 

 On the other side, we have some big losers, Qwest, and U S West, looks like Deutsche Telekom is not going to make a bid for those two companies.  What`s going on, Greg? 

 CLARKIN:  Exactly, Terry, 24 hours ago, those stocks both up bouncing nicely higher, that on a feeling that possibly a deal -- a three-way deal with Deutsche Telekom could actually happen.  But, late last night, patiently, Qwest saying that they have broken off talks, the talks that were underway with an unnamed third party that was expected to be Deutsche Telekom. 

 Today, we get word that the FCC is set to approve the U S West and Qwest merger.  Now the big fly in ointment here all along has been U S West.  They issued a statement after the close of trading yesterday, saying that they had no intentions of doing another deal unless it was better than offer they have with Qwest, and also a lot of folks saying that they didn`t want to go through another regulatory process, with an outside, or an outside the U.S. company, such as Deutsche Telekom.  So that whole scenario seems to have broken up. 

 But right now, Qwest and U S West are partners, although relations between the two companies, according to analysts, has been greatly strained by this kind of go around with Deutsche Telekom. 

 TUCKER:  All right, Greg.  Greg Clarkin reporting from the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.  Thanks for keeping up to date. 

 You know, Terry, secretary of the Federal Communications Commission, William Kennard, is scheduled to be a guest a little bit later in the program. 

 KEENAN:  Exactly, at bottom of the hour. 

 Well, the Nasdaq, as we told you, marching past 5100.  Things were moving so fast, for a while this morning, it looked like Nasdaq was up 30 points, everyone thought that was great after yesterday`s rally, and actually, was a technical glitch, and the Nasdaq was up a lot more than that. 

 TUCKER:  Like 80 points, as a matter of fact. 

 Charles Molineaux has been watching the action at the Nasdaq, and he can bring us up to speed. 

 Charles, what is going on? 

 CHARLES MOLINEAUX, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, the folks at the Nasdaq say that the glitch has been straightened out, that is was apparently a pretty brief hick-up, as they put it.  But we are looking at a lot of strength on this market. 

 Check out computer stocks, which are gaining 1.4 percent. Biotechs are back again.  They are, once again, entering this market after being left out of yesterday`s rally.  But telecoms are leading this market higher. They are up by 1.8 percent.  The merger between Qwest and Deutsche Telekom is definitely stirring up some of the Nasdaq telecom names.  The whole sector is up.  Check out, for example, Nextlink, which is up by 9.8 percent, $10; or Global Crossing, which is up by 7 1/2 or $4.  So we are seeing lots of activity here. 

 TUCKER:  What about the chip sector?  Are we seeing any action there. We have seen a lot so far year-to-date. 

 MOLINEAUX:  Oh yeah, yeah, a lot of excitement.  Check out Rambus, for one, it was up by 45 -- $45, another $45, 12 percent. This stock has actually been going crazy.  It develops chip connection technology.  It speeds up computer performance.  It has approved a four-for-one stock splits, which is going to kick in in late May. Rambus just keeps hitting new highs. 

 Check this out.  This is what Rambus has been doing over the course of the past year, more or less flat and then wham, up dramatically in the past couple of months, totaling a gain over the past 12 months of nearly five-fold, although of course most of that progress has been this year, within the past couple of months, as you can see, as the chips have really caught on fire. 

 TUCKER:  Fire maybe, I -- that leaves me speechless looking at that graph.  What`s going on with the big caps in the market here today? 

 MOLINEAUX:  Well, actually, we`ve got a big deal involving Microsoft, involving Microsoft and SRS Labs.  SRS develops audio and voice technology.  Microsoft has made an equity investment in SRS, and also entering a strategic technology and a marketing alliance. Microsoft, as you can see, is up by 2 1/4.  But SRS is up by $13, almost $14 a share, or 67 percent.  So a nice dramatic jump upward for that one, and even a nice gain for Microsoft. 

 While Dell is up by $3, or actually $3.25, 6 1/2 percent on the day. PaineWebber actually upgraded Dell from attractive to buy, and raised its price target for Dell`s stock from $50 a share to 78. Paine analysts say they see a near-term recovery in personal computer fundamentals. And in the long-term, they see Dell being a category leader in Internet computing.  So a big gain for Dell and a nice gain for Microsoft too, after it has been strong for the past couple of days. 

 TUCKER:  All right, Charles, thanks very much.  Charles Molineaux keeping an eye on the action at the Nasdaq for us. 

 KEENAN:  And lots of it. 

 Well, with the Nasdaq above 5000, and now on the radar screen is Nasdaq 6000, or perhaps even Nasdaq 10000.  The question is:  What will be the leaders that will to take us to these next milestones? 

 Now, the grand-daddies of the tech world: Intel, Microsoft and Oracle helped take the Nasdaq from 500 to 1000 back in the early `90s. 

 TUCKER:  And now take a look at the new leaders.  They are still tech stocks, but they include upstarts like Juniper Networks, which went public all of last year.  None of the names that you see here participated in the Nasdaq`s climb from 500 to 1000. 

 For more on which sector may drive the Nasdaq even higher, we`re joined by Bob Walberg, of Briefing.com, from our Chicago bureau. 

 And Bob, welcome back to IN THE MONEY. 

 BOB WALBERG, BRIEFING.COM:  Bill, good to be here.  Thank you. 

 TUCKER:  I am tempted to ask, when does this run out?  But everybody who has guessed about when it runs out has been so dead wrong.  Let me just ask you, what stocks do we ride on to six --, seven --, 8000, Bob? 

 WALBERG:  Well, you know, I think that is a good point, you really don`t want to be guessing when this tech rally is going to run out, you simply want to be identifying those sectors that offer tremendous upside potential over the long term.  And I think, again, we have heard a lot about the phrase new economy, it is getting a little tiresome.  But, in general, you want to be focusing on industries like the wireless industry, the Internet backbone group, fiberoptics, biotechnology. 

 These are the sectors of the economy which are going to be experiencing very strong top and bottom line growth over the next three to five years.  Consequently, you want to make sure you own some of the leadership stocks in those sectors. 

 KEENAN:  Yeah, Bob, because conventional wisdom is that technology changes so quickly that you can`t always stick with the leaders because some of them might not be around in a couple of years. But if you look at the list of stocks that the did power the Nasdaq in the early going, from 500 to 1000, they are still big winners today, the Microsofts, Oracles of the world.  So should investors, perhaps, buy a basket of leaders right now? 

 WALBERG:  Oh, I think this has been a market, over even, you know, the last couple of years, that has rewarded the leadership stocks.  You look at the Nasdaq 100:  Now, this year it`s under-performed relative to the Nasdaq a little bit, but, in general, I think you still wasn`t to be identifying those leadership companies that either have proprietary advantages, have strong management teams, those companies that are dominating their industry. 

 In the business-to-business commerce section, for example, we like -- we continue to like Commerce One, Ariba and Oracle.  We think those are the three leading stocks in that group with i2 kind of trailing a little bit behind.  You want to -- if you`re going to own stocks in that group, you want to own one of those.  Same thing in fiber optics:  You want to own either JDS Uniphase or you want to own SDL.  You want to be looking at those stocks that are providing leadership in their sectors and make sure you have exposure to those stocks. 

 TUCKER:  Bob, I read your commentary every morning and really enjoy it.  I know you`re as confounded as the rest of us, but what should we be looking out for here that might derail this train? 

 WALBERG:  Well, I think over the short term there are a couple things we have to be, you know -- consider -- or concerning ourselves with, and one is simply the timing of the rally.  I mean, as you move into the first quarter earnings numbers, you`re also moving into what is seasonally a slow period for technology stocks.  So, consequently, we could see the technology sector correct a little bit here. 

 And on top of that, you look at the biotech industry, it`s up roughly 100 percent simply year-to-date.  I mean, those type of gains are unsustainable, especially in biotech.  You have a lot of junk, really, participating in the rally, and those stocks that have no, you know, business being at current levels are going to sell off and sell off sharply, much as some of the early Internet stocks rallied along with the overall rally, but then since then have really collapsed. 

 So I think you`re going to see a correction in biotech and an overall correction in technology.  That should end sometime about April, we think, but result in about a 15 to 20 percent correction, or thereabouts, in the Nasdaq. 

 KEENAN:  Any other sectors that you might think investors will pass the baton to if they start to reduce their holdings in biotech? We forget that the Nasdaq also is composed of a lot of financial stocks that have been terrible performers. 

 WALBERG:  Particularly in, you know, the regional banking sector. We think that group is really, right now, a very attractive value for the long term.  So I think you`ll see some rotation into those type of stocks.  I think you`ll also see rotation into a lot of the retail stocks that have been just hammered so far in the first part of the year.  You know, and you talk about the biotechnology stocks.  We`re already seeing it a little bit in the last few days: rotation in the major pharmaceuticals.  I think, you know, investors have to remember that most of the major pharmaceuticals provide the R&D money to these biotechs and have an alliance with them and share in profits of the drugs that are forthcoming.  So a lot of the traditional drug companies now trading at attractive valuations relative to their biotech peers. 

 TUCKER:  All right, Bob. 

 KEENAN:  We saw that with the rush yesterday. 

 Thanks a lot, Bob. 

 WALBERG:  Thank you. 

 KEENAN:  Bob Walberg of Briefing.com. 

 Coming up next on IN THE MONEY:  Tired of sitting on the runway waiting for airport traffic to clear?  Well, help may be finally on the way. 

 TUCKER:  Yes, and for the first time in history, U.S. election ballots are being cast on the Internet.  That story when we return. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 KEENAN:  A "Wake-Up Call" this morning to all you ladies working 9:00-5:00.  According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, if you`re aged between 16 and 24 and a woman, you`re earning more than $40 a week less than your male counterpart, and it doesn`t get any better as you get older.  According to the survey, if you`re between 35 and 54, you`ll be earning about $200 less.  So the salary gap continues. 

 TUCKER:  Time now to check on some other stories making news today. And for that, we turn to Daryn Kagan in Atlanta. 

 And good morning, Daryn. 

 DARYN KAGAN, CNN ANCHOR:  Good morning to you, Bill and Terry. 

 We`re standing by waiting for comments from President Clinton at the White House.  He`ll be announcing a new plan trying to avoid a repeat of last year`s long airport delays.  It`s hoped that the plan will ease -- I think that`s a live picture right now.  It is a live picture right now from the White House, and that`s Transportation Secretary Rodney Slater who will be introducing the president.  When the president does begin to speak, we will go to the White House live so you can hear his comments. 

 It`s hoped that this plan the president will be talking about will ease the gridlock when spring and summer thunderstorms that often snarl airport traffic get underway a few months from now.  It gives the FAA national command center in Virginia more authority to in managing traffic.  Pilots say, though, it is no substitute for the $13 billion overhaul of the air traffic control system that is already underway. 

 Now to politics:  For the presidential primary season, there is life after Super Tuesday.  Three more states hold their contests today.  They are Colorado, Utah and Wyoming.  The biggest prize is Colorado.  Voters there will award 61 Democratic delegates and 40 Republican delegates. In Wyoming, Republicans are only -- the party there -- the only party there -- holding non-binding county conventions.      Expected Republican nominee George W. Bush`s campaign is making some overtures toward Senator John McCain.  Sources tell CNN that Bush representatives have made calls to McCain`s people trying to arrange a Bush-McCain get-together.  And likely Democratic nominee Al Gore has scored another victory.  Gore won his party`s caucus in South Carolina on Thursday, taking 92 percent of that vote and apparently all 43 delegates.  Former challenger Bill Bradley pledged his support to Gore yesterday as he dropped out of the race for president. 

 This weekend as Arizona Democrats vote, a great experiment is underway involving technology that one day may be available to all of us.  For the first time in the Grand Canyon State, voters cast official ballots online -- at least they`re able to as an option. 

 Here`s CNN`s Louise Schiavone. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 LOUISE SCHIAVONE, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Coming soon to a computer near you: 

 UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  All right.  Who are you voting for? 

 UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE:  I`m voting for Al Gore. 

 SCHIAVONE:  Voting on the Internet.  The first binding Internet election for public office is unfolding in the state of Arizona through the technology of Election.com.  For far-flung, older or disabled voters, it`s a boon for democracy. 

 UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  There`s no reason a computer can`t be made available at bedside or wherever necessary. 

 SCHIAVONE:  For Election.com, a fledgling, for-profit high-tech company, it`s all business. 

 JOE MOEN, ELECTION.COM:  We estimate that the market for election services in the United States is approximately $10 billion. 

 SCHIAVONE:  In this first-ever e-voting, the ballots are limited to the Democratic primary in the state of Arizona.  Electronic balloting began just hours after the Super Tuesday polls closed and runs through midnight tonight with traditional polling-place balloting on Saturday, March 11.  While celebrated by some as a triumph of democracy, Arizona`s electronic primary was challenged unsuccessfully in court. 

 DEBORAH PHILLIPS, VOTING INTEGRITY PROJECT:  We`re against the speed with which there has been a rush to implement this new technology without consideration for some of the basic fundamentals of secure elections in this country. 

 SCHIAVONE:  Phillips` group argues that electronic ballots favor the more affluent.  And then there`s the issue of security and ballot integrity. 

 MOEN:  We have to assume that every hacker in the world is trying to break into our Web site. 

 SCHIAVONE:  To prevent fraud, voters were assigned PIN numbers by Election.com and could not vote more than once. 

 (on camera):  The results in Arizona`s Democratic primary became moot with the exit of Bill Bradley from the race.  But for the nearly dozen high-tech companies seeking to cash in on point-and-click democracy, the outcome of Arizona`s experiment will be closely watched. 

 Louise Schiavone, for CNN Financial News, Washington. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 KAGAN:  And speaking of pointing and clicking, you can stay on top of all the election 2000 developments with CNN Interactive.  Just go to allpolitics.com. 

 And now we`ll click our way back up to New York to Bill and Terry. 

 TUCKER:  Thanks, Daryn. 

 Straight ahead on IN THE MONEY:  Shares of Aetna have been ailing over the past year, but the health care giant could now be in recovery. 

 KEENAN:  Is it a buying opportunity?  We`re going to take a closer look at Aetna.  It is our "Stock of the Day." 

 But first let`s go back to the White House where President Clinton is speaking about airport delays.  Let`s listen in. 

 (INTERRUPTED BY COVERAGE OF A LIVE EVENT) 

 KAGAN:  We`re going to take a break.  IN THE MONEY will be back, and we will have your "Stock of the Day." 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 KEENAN:  Nice picture of New York harbor and the Statue of Liberty. Another beautiful day here in New York City, with temperature`s expected to be in the mid 50s.  Not as nice as yesterday, though... 

 TUCKER:  No. 

 KEENAN:  ... we were in the low 70s. 

 TUCKER:  A taste of spring that is soon going to go away over the weekend, though, Terry, since it`s supposed to rain and get cool again. 

 KEENAN:  Just in time for the weekend. 

 Well, you`re watching IN THE MONEY.  It`s half past the hour. Welcome back, everyone.  I`m Terry Keenan. 

 TUCKER:  And I`m Bill Tucker.  In this half hour, we will continue our look at Nasdaq 5000, the winners that got us here, and the stocks that might pave the way to Nasdaq 6000. 

 But first, let`s look at the boards.  And we do have rallies on the markets much happier Friday than we`ve seen in past.  However, we are seeing the Dow start to fade.  The number of advancing issues, the number of issues going up in price, were overwhelmed on the Big Board by the number of issues that are declining in price, that has led a moderation to the Dow.  At the moment, we see the Dow up less than 10 points, it`s about 7 3/4 points.  GE, though, does remain strong... 

 KEENAN:  It does. 

 TUCKER:  ... still up better than four. 

 KEENAN:  And to the downside, though, Procter & Gamble is down another four, if you can believe that.  Coca-Cola is down two.  And Merck and Johnson & Johnson giving up some of the gains they have racked up in the last two days; each of those stocks is down two. 

 And there, you see the Nasdaq composite pulling a bit below 5100, but it spent most of the morning there. 

 TUCKER:  And, yes, actually, I was wondering if we were going to be able to hold on to that. 

 And here is what is happening in the bond markets: 30-year down in price, 6.18 the yield.  That 10-year, where we`ve been keeping our eye on, still in that range that we`ve been looking at, bouncing around between 6.37 and about 6.42.  On the yield today, 10-year note at 6.38. 

 Well, the break-neck speed we`ve seen the Nasdaq blow past each milestone has left many on Wall Street standing, shaking their heads in wonder.  It took the Dow industrials 23 years to go from 1000 to 5000; as for the Nasdaq, it took about a fifth of that time, thanks to the techs. 

 KEENAN:  And that has created a great divide between the Dow and the Nasdaq over the last couple of years. 

 For more on whether this tech momentum is here to stay, let`s bring in Drew Cupps of the Strong Enterprise Fund.  He joins us from Chicago. 

 Hi, there, Drew. 

 DREW CUPPS, STRONG ENTERPRISE FUND:  Good morning. 

 KEENAN:  Good to have you with us. 

 CUPPS:  Thank you. 

 KEENAN:  Let`s talk about this divergence because it is extreme and we`ve also, at the same time, seen incredible volatility in both the Dow and the Nasdaq.  Should investors be concerned? 

 CUPPS:  Well, I think investors should always be concerned, and they should always take the time to understand what they own and why they own it.  And that`s what will enable them to get through that volatility. 

 TUCKER:  Well, Drew, let`s talk about that divergence, though.  I mean, somewhere lost in here somehow seems to be that the new economy companies, the techs, need the old economy companies, and the old economies need what the new economy companies need to offer.  There is a synergy, if you will, forgive me for using that word, between the two stocks, leaving me to wonder what happened to the old economy stocks, like P&G. 

 CUPPS:  Yes, well, I don`t know that there`s any synergies between the stocks.  I certainly think there is a relationship between the companies, and your point is well taken, that the old companies are the ones that are providing the demand for the new companies to at least a portion of the demand.  I think it is important to remember that the new companies are also providing a large portion of the demand from the other new companies.  So that`s important also. 

 But I think the point to take away here really is in this divergence that we are witnessing is that there`s a fundamental restructuring of the world economy, and maybe the last time that happened was the industrial revolution which -- in which time it took place over 20, 30, 40 years, and now we are trying to get that whole job done in the course of five years, or 10 years.  So everything is happening bigger and faster, than it ever has before. 

 KEENAN:  What have you been doing this week with your fund? There has been several opportunities -- buying opportunities this week, perhaps some selling opportunities as the Nasdaq crossed the 5100 mark.  Where have you been seeing value? 

 CUPPS:  Well, one thing we don`t pay quite as much attention to the broad indices as you do, but we are really trying to pick stocks. And we`ve been working hard to understand what is going on in some of the most exciting places in the economy, like communications, like business-to-business e-commerce, like optics, like finance, like outsourcing.  These are all incredible opportunities that are changing not only year-by-year, but really month-by-month, and so we`ve been working hard to understand those changes, and adjust the portfolio accordingly. 

 KEENAN:  Give us a couple of names then. 

 CUPPS:  Sure.  I think one of the names that I am most excited about, and I think maybe has the broadest opportunity, and maybe even the longest lived is the ASP industry, the application service provider industry.  One of the names that we like a lot is called USinternetworking, and this is really the, maybe, version three or version four of outsourcing.  This version is all about allowing the corporation to outsource its IT professionals, and the expenditure it makes on big-ticket software items, to make that more of a rental agreement, rather than a big up-front investment.      And it does wonders, both for the balance sheet and the income statement of the companies, but also for the operations of the companies.  They can get their software up quicker, and they can use professionals that are not inside their organization, and we all know these IT professionals are so hard to come by right now. 

 KEENAN:  All right.  We have to leave it there.  Thanks a lot, Drew, we appreciate it.  Drew Cupps of the Strong Enterprise Fund. 

 TUCKER:  Thanks, Drew. 

 Well, in today`s edition of "Stock of the Day," Aetna`s board is scheduled to meet today and into the weekend to discuss a takeover by WellPoint and ING, but a leading shareholder has also been holding talks with other companies about a different plan.  With so much news surrounding the company, it makes Aetna our "Stock of the Day." 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 (voice-over):  Aetna was once a leader in the insurance industry, but then it made itself over into a managed health care giant, but that giant has fallen on hard times.  Aetna`s stock has been under pressure, slipping more than 27 percent over the past 52 weeks, making many investors no doubt think:  Aetna, I wish I hadn`t met you. 

 The bears point out the unexpectedly high cost in Aetna`s U.S. Health Care Managed Care unit, and its stock reflects those troubles, leading to the recent resignation of chairman and CEO Dick Huber. 

 But the bulls have high hopes for the company`s new chief, Bill Donaldson, yes, the same Donaldson of Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette fame. And those bulls argue that the managed care company is putting together a healthy new strategy for creating shareholder value. 

 So our question for you is:  Would it be a healthy choice for us to put Aetna`s stock into our IN THE MONEY portfolio? 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 TUCKER:  No rally for Aetna today.  Aetna down currently a buck- and-a-quarter, at 55 3/4. 

 KEENAN:  And joining us now with more on Aetna is Prudential`s health care analyst David Shove.  But he joins us from his firm`s trading floor in Lower Manhattan. 

 Hi there, David. 

 DAVID SHOVE, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES:  Good morning. 

 KEENAN:  Good morning. 

 We just saw Aetna`s shares trading around 54, this takeover bid, if it materializes, is supposed to be $70 a share.  The market is saying -- doesn`t seem to think that Aetna is going to be taken over at those prices.      SHOVE:  Yes, it seems that the market believes that once WellPoint and ING get in and kick the tires they`re going to find that they really don`t want to pay $70, and therefore the stock is staying down for now. 

 TUCKER:  What should we do with this stock, David?  I mean, do we buy it because we think the business is fundamentally good, or do we buy it on takeover speculation, or do we just walk away from it? 

 SHOVE:  Well, we think that there`s probably some value in here. I mean, WellPoint and ING basically are knocking on the door with $70, saying let us come in, let`s talk.  At the very least, Aetna will probably be compelled to let them talk and figure out where it goes from here. 

 But the major point is that the board seems to be sensitive to shareholder value.  They have changed managements, they are considering talking to WellPoint and ING, and there`s enough value in this company to push it well above 53, $54. 

 KEENAN:  What`s Bill Donaldson`s role here?  Is he just an interim CEO, in your opinion? 

 SHOVE:  I -- you know, I think that it`s a little bit more than interim.  He has to take a good, strategic look at the company and figure out exactly how do they unlock some of the value quickly and get the company back on the path toward profitability.  Once that chore is done, maybe he`ll step aside, but that`s not an easy job. 

 TUCKER:  All right, David, David Shove of Prudential Securities, thanks for being our guests on IN THE MONEY. 

 SHOVE:  Thank you. 

 KEENAN:  OK, now you`ve heard the arguments for and against Aetna, our "Stock of the Day."  Go to the bottom of our CNNfn.com Web site, cast your vote.  Tell us whether we should buy it for our IN THE MONEY PORTFOLIO. 

 Now, you told us yesterday what you thought about Bell Atlantic, and that was our "Stock of the Day."  Sixty-nine percent of you telling us to go for it and buy that stock.  Bell Atlantic does make it into our IN THE MONEY portfolio with a pretty strong buy there. And Bell Atlantic shares and a bit of pressure today, down 1 1/8, but a lot of analysts out on the street have an $80-a-share price target. 

 TUCKER:  Well, apparently some number of other issues have come under pressure as well, because we have seen a turnaround in the Dow. A very happy-looking Dow when we began the program.  Not looking quite so happy now, currently down just about 42 points, with the Nasdaq managing to hang on to a slight gain. 

 KEENAN:  And some of the losers from earlier in the week pulling down the Dow right now.  P&G, just to update you on that, down 3 3/4. 

 Coming up next on IN THE MONEY: from squandering aimlessly to putting money to work. 

 TUCKER:  We`ll talk to the two people who have some sharp observations on the current boom and how it`s changing the American landscape. That`s next, when IN THE MONEY returns. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 KAGAN:  We talk a lot on the show about making money.  How about spending money and giving it away?  That`s our subject of this next segment.  David Brancaccio hosts Public Radio`s "Marketplace."  He has also written a new book.  It`s called "Squandering Aimlessly," which examines Americans` spending habits.  And he`s joining us this morning from Los Angeles. 

 Good morning.  It`s a pleasure to have you here. 

 DAVID BRANCACCIO, HOST, NPR`S "MARKETPLACE":  Oh, it`s great to be here. 

 KAGAN:  So you decided to write a book about getting rid of money and how we do that instead of making money. 

 BRANCACCIO:  Well, you know, you grow up thinking the only problem with money, of course, is getting some; that`s how I grew up. Then you get to point, this long economic boom, this dot.com boom, and you realize there`s another problem with money, is what do you do with it once you have it?  How do you dispose of it? 

 So what I did was I went through clippings of newspapers from around the country and looked at what lottery winners said they would do with the money, and then found place across America where I can visit, kind of a road trip, to get some street smarts about money. 

 KAGAN:  So you went to -- you checked out shopping, risk and charities.  For shopping you went to Mall of America in Minnesota. 

 BRANCACCIO:  Yes, to see what the return on investment is from, you know, when you actually spend money at the mall.  I tried not to spend at this mother of all shopping malls.  The mall actually very good at what it does.  I lost, it won. 

 KAGAN:  It did.  And what about risk?  Speaking of losing, you took a trip to Vegas as well. 

 BRANCACCIO:  Well, can you believe it?  I saw -- I found a lottery clipping of a woman who said, I`ve just won the Powerball, I`m going to -- now that I`m on a roll, I`m going to Vegas, if you can believe it. So, I went to assess my own sense of risk and learned a lot from people with one foot in the so-called gaming markets and another foot in the financial markets. 

 KAGAN:  And of course it doesn`t have to all be about consumption. There`s also charity and giving it away. 

 BRANCACCIO:  Yes.  One lottery winner said, I`ve just won a big jackpot, I want to make the world a better place, I want to give it away.  So I went to a very small town, a challenge town in northern Nevada that had not had a business relocate there in 20 years.  They were trying to win the all-America Cities contest.  How?  It turned out a grooming, nurturing, social capital, volunteerism and charity. I see charity as really part of asset allocation: stocks, bonds, money market, why not charity.  An important decision to make right off the top when considering what to do if you`re lucky enough to be in this situation. 

 KAGAN:  Well, on that note, you`re going to want to listen to our next guest, David Brancaccio of "Marketplace."  It`s nice to put a face with the voice that I hear all the time on Public Radio. 

 You`ll want to listen to this next guest.  There are dozen of people who probably never thought that they would be in this position of trying to give money away, but now we`re going to talk with Anthony Parks, who made a fortune, his own fortune, not an easy way, it`s been a long, windy road. 

 And you have decided, Mr. Parks, as you join us from New York, I believe... 

 ANTHONY PARKS, WEBVAN.COM:  Hello. 

 KAGAN:  ... you are giving your money -- you are giving your stock away.  First, tell us how you made your fortune, in stock options I believe. 

 PARKS:  I wouldn`t... 

 KAGAN:  Short -- OK, a short version of how you made your money. 

 PARKS:  OK.  I wouldn`t characterize it as "giving it away," but I was one of the original members of Webvan, which is an Internet-based grocery -- at this point grocery-delivery company, and, you know, we started pre-IPO, obviously, and took a gamble, and we put it together, and it`s doing well now, and we went public, and that`s how I`ve got my shares. 

 KAGAN:  So, you have Internet wealth and you made a list.  What -- who are -- what kind of people are on that list? 

 PARKS:  Yes.  Well, the people on the list are friends and family.  It is a thoroughly thought-out list, and I wouldn`t describe it anywhere close to squandering my money.  I certainly think that`s kind of an attitude.  You know, I feel that I can do the same things with $8 million that I can do with $10 million, and I think anybody who can`t has a problem.  So, I`m not squandering anything.  This is all calculated.  I have -- when I got my money, or I got my shares, there were a long list of financial advisers that I went through and wound up with Rick Warner (ph) with Morgan Stanley Dean Webber, and I`m real happy. 

 KAGAN:  So you`re sharing your shares with people who have helped you along the way. 

 PARKS:  Yes.      KAGAN:  Can you describe for us what the feeling is when you share the wealth? 

 PARKS:  It`s a great feeling to know that I can give back, because none of us can say we got whatever we got on our own.  And the people that helped me get there, people that are in my life as friends, they`re very important to me, and I wanted to be able to share with them, and if it can help them do whatever they want to do with it, fine with me. 

 KAGAN:  Anthony Parks, showing us that it`s not hard to remember where you come from.  Thanks for sharing your story with us... 

 PARKS:  Thank you. 

 KAGAN:  ... and also David Brancaccio from Public Radio.  And his book, "Squandering Aimlessly," did not mean to imply that Mr. Parks was squandering, he is sharing. 

 And now back up to New York to Bill and Terry. 

 TUCKER:  All right, thanks, Daryn.  It`s also good to remember where you do come from. 

 Well, just ahead on IN THE MONEY: 

 KEENAN:  "Fortune"`s Andy Serwer knows what`s giving a booster shot to the drug stocks, and he will tell us why when we return. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 TUCKER:  Demanding some respect and, you know, a little ogling as well, the Web site Geek & Guru sponsored a contest.  The contest is for the sexiest geek alive.  Twelve finalists will be judged on responses to questions, on knowledge of "Star Trek," and perhaps most importantly, how they look wearing a pocket protector.  And look out, Hooters:  All the contestants will be featured in a calendar.  The winner will be featured on a Web site for an entire year.  And best of all, you are the one who gets to cast your vote.  You`ve got until March 14 for the Sexiestgeekalive.com. 

 KEENAN:  Are you in the running? 

 TUCKER:  I`m nowhere on that page and I don`t even know if I want to go and vote. 

 KEENAN:  Well, I know Andy Serwer`s up on his "Star Trek" trivia. 

 ANDY SERWER, EDITOR-AT-LARGE, "FORTUNE" MAGAZINE:  Hey -- OK. 

 KEENAN:  I don`t know if he`s in the contest, but he`s here... 

 SERWER:  I hope so, Terry. 

 KEENAN:  ... with some thoughts on the drug stocks and their recent run-up.      SERWER:  That`s right.  And of course drug stocks were pretty poor performer last year, Terry, right?  I mean, Merck was down 9 percent, Pfizer 22 percent, Bristol down 4 percent.  They were up nicely this week, and there`s a theory going on on Wall Street that sort of explains it.  Kind of interesting.  And that is that with Bradley and McCain dropping out of the presidential race, the theory is that drug stocks have moved up because these are two guys who might have put price controls on the drugs.  And now that they`ve dropped out, the feeling is that Gore and George W. won`t do anything with drugs, so they`ve kind of moved up a little, up about 6 -- 5, 6 percent for the week.  They`re a little bit mixed today, but, you know, it`s still a nice little run for these guys.  You can see them there mixed.  They`re up a little bit, but sure have been weak performers recently, so much-needed in that sector. 

 KEENAN:  That`s for sure. 

 TUCKER:  So the political pressures off of the drug group, or at least the perception of political pressure. 

 SERWER:  That`s right.  And perception is the name of the game here, right? 

 TUCKER:  I want to ask you about MMG, Metromedia International: Old friend of ours at that company. 

 SERWER:  That`s right, John Kluge -- billionaire John Kluge runs this company.  Metromedia International runs television/cable properties in Eastern Europe, the former Soviet Union and China.  And the stock has really been a laggard over the past year or so, but this week it`s really moved up nicely.  There`s been some real buying interest on Wall Street.  I think it`s gone from about $8 to $10.  The theory is the Soviet Union -- the former Soviet Union rushed -- there we go.  That`s nice.  I hope you got in, people.  On a percentage basis, that`s real money, come on. 

 TUCKER:  That`s huge. 

 SERWER:  And, you know, recovery in Russia, especially oil -- and maybe this thing is moving.  What`s very interesting to me is that this company also owns one of my favorite little companies, Snapper -- Snapper lawn mowers.  And, you know, I`m not sure how Snapper fits with the cable properties in Russia.  Maybe they`re, you know, mowing lawns. Maybe they have like... 

 TUCKER:  I think you got this wrong, Andy. 

 SERWER:  No. 

 TUCKER:  I think this is a seasonal move.  This is a lawn mower place, what that is. 

 SERWER:  Right.  Well, that`s like the guy who says he buys air conditioning stocks around this time of year because they go up a little bit. 

 TUCKER:  Yes, right. 

 SERWER:  But I have no idea why he owns Snapper, and I don`t really know why, because then I think there`s some shareholders that are upset at this company.  I think there`s some shareholders that have been very active. 

 Speaking of shareholders, I think some news that just crossed the wire is that there`s a shareholder suit that has just been filed against Proctor & Gamble for allegedly mis-holding -- misleading shareholders. This is a strike suit.  This always happens when a company blows up. But that`s just crossing the wire and I think the stock is down on the news, Terry. 

 KEENAN:  Yes, it`s down once again, about 3 3/4, very heavy trading: 11 million shares. 

 SERWER:  Yes, and you know, this is another one of these lessons: When the stock goes down you think, oh, I`m just going to hold it because that`s it.  But, you know, there`s always bad news, right? 

 KEENAN:  And it`s still not that cheap. 

 SERWER:  No, it`s not.  And this is what happened with Coke and Gillette.  They crashed but they`re not cheap because they were so high to begin with.  I mean, it`s tough out there.  There is no value. 

 TUCKER:  All right, Andy, thank you very much. 

 KEENAN:  Thanks, Andy. 

 TUCKER:  Have a great weekend. 

 SERWER:  Thank you.  You too. 

 TUCKER:  All right, just one quick word:  We had teased the chairman of the FCC, William Kennard, to be here.  Unfortunately, New York traffic got in the way and the chairman will be on fN, for those of you watching us on fn, a little bit past noon. 

 KEENAN:  And that`s going to do it for us.  I`m Terry Keenan. Have a great weekend. 

 TUCKER:  And I`m Bill Tucker.  Enjoy. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc.  ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by eMediaMillWorks, Inc.  (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.)  No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document ithm000020010807dw3a0001w




Analysis
 Financial Post 
 Tech stocks unlikely to remain immune to interest-rate shock: Other stocks will recover 

 Gretchen Morgenson 
The New York Times
835 words
10 March 2000
National Post
FINP
National !@SERIES=
C10
English
 (c) Copyright 2000 Financial Post from National Post (formerly The Financial Post Company). All rights reserved. 

 NEW YORK - Is it still a bull market if it is running on only one leg? 

 That is the question investors are asking now as they ponder a badly bifurcated stock market, where a handful of strong stocks is surrounded by a mass of the weak. 

 While most bull markets are built on strong performance from a wide swath of industries, gains in the current market are being made in technology stocks alone. Procter & Gamble Co.'s profit warning on Tuesday only served to cement the view among investors that anything non-tech is a non-starter. 

 Although it is not immediately evident from the behaviour of the broad market indexes, most shares are currently trading at bear market levels. While the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index is down about 7% for the year, more than three-quarters of the stocks in the index are down 20% or more from their recent highs. 

 Even more surprising is data compiled by James Paulsen, chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis. Mr. Paulsen found that if he excised the 66 technology and telecommunications stocks from the S&P index, the 434 companies that remain are currently trading at the same low levels seen during the Russian debt crisis of 1998. With technology and telecommunications back in the index, it is up about 40% since then. 

 In addition, Mr. Paulsen removed technology stocks from the S&P index and found that the price-to-earnings ratio on the median stock in the remainder currently stands at around 12. That is the same depressed level reached on the entire index during the recession of 1990. With technology stocks included, the index's price-earnings ratio is 43. 

 Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan has singled out the wealth effect created by rising portfolio values as an engine driving the currently hot economy. And he has threatened to raise rates as far as he must to cool the economy and the stock market. 

 But so far, his rate increases have only damaged stocks that were already down, not the high flyers he may have hoped to rein in. And that only pushes more investors into the already hot stocks, driving their prices ever higher. 

 "Greenspan is mistaken about the wealth effect," said Stefan Abrams of Trust Co. of the West. "While 50 stocks are racing, the other 450 S&P stocks are losers. Every time he plays the Cassandra, he has the effect of accelerating the boom in the hot stocks." 

 In recent weeks, investors have characterized this tale of two stock markets as a divide between the Old Economy stocks, which are hit hard by rising interest rates, and the new, supercharged tech stocks that are not. But many economists say this view will be proved wrong. 

 "The problem I see with the tech sector is it ultimately has cyclicality to it," said William Dudley, chief U.S. economist at Goldman, Sachs. "People may be a little bit too optimistic thinking that tech is insulated from what happens elsewhere in the economy." 

 Mr. Paulsen agrees. He believes that the Fed will succeed in slowing the economy down and that this will bring the bull market in young technology companies to a screeching halt. "A slower economy would raise the risks inherent in venture capital financing," he said. "It would dry up equity capital flows and kill off these companies' method of financing their operations. I think that is likely over the course of this year." 

 Mr. Paulsen is worried that many companies have reached the zenith of productivity and will no longer be able to reduce prices. 

 Procter & Gamble is the most recent victim of this price competition, but market darlings Dell Computer, Wal-Mart and Compaq Computer have also warned about margin pressures recently. 

 Some strategists think the extreme stock market disparities of today will soon ease and that beaten-down stocks will recover. "My own personal opinion is the disparity between these two areas has gotten awfully wide," Mr. Dudley said. A result: Investors will find some stocks too cheap to pass up. Companies with depressed stock prices may also take themselves private. 

 What about technology stocks? "Whenever you have momentum investing, it's hard to say when it's going to peter out," Mr. Dudley said. "I don't see anything near term that will puncture that bubble." Longer term, however, he doubts that earnings among tech companies can continue to grow at 25% or more while the economy is growing at a much slower pace. 

 Mr. Paulsen thinks that if the economy slows, the broader market will rebound. "Technology would no longer be the big deal," he said. "The inflation scares go away and interest-rate-sensitive parts of the stock market will pick up. So will big consumer companies with good unit growth." 

Document finp000020010805dw3a0064e


 Business 
 Stock Market Analysis 

 Lauren Thierry 
1,154 words
10 March 2000
14:30
CNNfn: Market Coverage - Morning
MKTM
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 LAUREN THIERRY, CNNfn ANCHOR, MARKET COVERAGE: Our next guest says this current combination of high  valuations and rising margin  debt is definitely dangerous,  even though there is the potential  for a near-term rally. Gail Dudack is market  strategist at Warburg   Dillon Read. She joins us from her  company`s offices in  Manhattan. Gail, good to see you. 

 GAIL DUDACK WARBURG DILLON READ: Good to see you, Lauren. 

 THIERRY: This is probably a real good day to talk to you, because we all 

 know that you`ve been sounding the cautious note for years now. And maybe, just maybe, the froth of the market and the little bit of the scare that we had with P&G this past week and as we go into the pre-confessional season here, what can we expect in terms of earnings? And how might that affect future stock prices and valuations? 

 DUDACK: Well, I think that what happened to P&G with their profitwarning scared a lot of people especially, I talked to our traders on the floor of the exchange that day and it was very unnerving that a stock like Procter & Gamble (URL: http://www.pg.com/) could actually move that much. So I think there`s a little nervousness as we go into this earnings season. All indications  are that in general, earnings should be pretty good especially when we look at all the economic indicators. But clearly the market is not willing to take any disappointments. 

 THIERRY: Exactly. In which case what we`re saying is that the enormous gains that we`ve seen could lead to enormous disappointment. 

 DUDACK: Well, I think the surprise is that P&G was not one of those high flying P/E names. And so clearly the higher your P/E the more volatility you have to accept in owning that kind of stock. So, if there were any disappointments in the tech sector, I think that that could be quite a blow. Otherwise, if there`s disappointments in the tech sector, we`ll probably see more of the same which is this unbelievably bifurcated market that seems to have signs that it can`t go on like this forever. 

 THIERRY: Well, no. And as we all know, Wall Street is very unforgiving if anybody does come in for Q1 less than expected. I mean they really get beat over this one. And the truth is we really won`t know the real answers for that until April. 

 DUDACK: We won`t. And we probably won`t see something that concerns me either yet. Which is I`m concerned about some of the different accounting gimmicks that are used to kind of  make the earnings  number. There`s an awful lot of things that we`re starting to see even in some of the technology stocks, where they`re starting to see portfolio gains added to the revenue lines. My biggest concern is that over time analysts or investors more importantly will start to look at that and strip that out and look at real operating revenues and see what the earnings are. That`s something that I feel is the Achilles Heel of the market in 2000. 

 THIERRY:  Well, also much has  been made of this whisper number and much has also been made of perhaps companies  given projections that are almost designed to be well under the number so that then boom, there`s this big surprise. The stock gets a nice pop on the surprise when it really wasn`t that much of a surprise to begin with. 

 DUDACK: That`s right. In fact, I`ve seen a lot of stocks go up quite a bit when they had a penny surprise. And if you look at the year over year, the earnings were actually down, which means  the company wasn`t doing better this year. That`s part of this management of expectations. That companies are doing very well. 

 THIERRY: All right. In the meantime, Gail, you do have some picks out there that you`re a little sanguine on. Tell me about them. 

 DUDACK: Well, I really like the energy stocks here because I think again talking about earnings, these companies are going to have great earnings in this quarter. But I think for the next 8 quarters in a row. And that`s what investors over time will pay for, consistency and good earnings. So, things like Exxon (URL: http://www.exxon.mobil.com/) or Burlington Resources (URL: http://www.br-inc.com/) are two candidates for good earnings numbers in 2000 and 2001. THIERRY: Sure. And I see you also have Burlington Resources and Apache URL: http://www.apachecorp.com/>up there. What do they have in common in terms of P/Es? Do they all have P/Es you`re comfortable with? Or do some have P/Es that you`re willing to ignore because you think the stock is just on fire. 

 DUDACK: It`s interesting because the energy group has always looked expensive on a P/E basis. So analysts tend to look at cash flow P/Es. And if you look at energy group relative to its historical ranges of P/Es on a valuation basis, these stocks still look keep. 

 THIERRY: All right. Just real quick, Gail, just yes or no, because I think I`ve been asking you this for 5 years now, are you bearish right now? 

 DUDACK: I think there`s a bear market that`s been going on. And now it`s no secret. And part of the market is ignoring it. 

 THIERRY: That`s the word coming from Gail Dudack of Warburg   Dillon Read. Good to see you. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc.  ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by eMediaMillWorks, Inc.  (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.)  No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except  for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion  that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of  this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a  legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document mktm000020010808dw3a000yd


 Business 
 NYSE Opening Bell 

 Fred Katayama, Lauren Thierry 
691 words
10 March 2000
14:30
CNNfn: Market Coverage - Morning
MKTM
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 (OPENING BELL RINGING) 

 FRED KATAYAMA, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT:  That`s the sound of the opening bell here at the New York Stock Exchange, just one day after the Dow Jones industrials managed to climb 154 points to climb back above the 10,000 level. We start today`s trading day at 10,010. You`ll notice in the past few weeks, we`ve seen weakness on Fridays. We`ll see how the Dow starts today.  S&P futures indicated the stock market to open lower. Right now we have got the industrials down 5 points at 10,005 right at the open. 

 What`s pressuring Dow stocks is news from Dial Corporation (URL: http://www.dialcorp.com/) , the consumer products company issued a profit warning saying that it expects 

 to see its earnings per share from the fiscal year 2000 to fall 10 to 12 percent, compared to the year before.  It was just earlier this week that PG (URL: http://www.pg.com/) shocked the market and took the Dow down with it when it issued its own  profit warnings.  A lot of investors are worried that the escalating price of energy, especially oil, will cut into earnings of a lot of industrials. 

 Also pressuring stocks, reports that Deutsche Telekom (URL: http://www.dtag.de/) , the German telecom giant, is calling off its talks to possibly buy Qwest Communications (URL: http://www.qwest.net/) and U S West (URL: http://www.uswest.com/) . 

 Qwest shares were down sharply in pre-open trade, down about $7.  The latest indication is for Qwest to open at 50 to $53 a share. The last quote was 57 1/8 was the last trade that we have here for that stock. 

 Also, keep an eye on the stock of Agilent (URL: http://www.agilent-tech.com/) . That`s the spin-off of Hewlett-Packard (URL: http//www.hp.com/) .  The company`s very bullish about its prospects.  The company expects earning to grow 6 percent this year, and predicts that earnings will grow 8 percent next year. 

 Today we have no economic reports to watch.  A lot of investors will be looking at the stock of MetLife.  The big life insurance says it is cutting the size of its initial public offering in-half.  A lot of people are looking at MetLife`s deal because it was billed as the biggest IPO, one that would even top the $5.5 billion debut of UPS (URL: http://www.ups.com/) .  But apparently, some investors said that they don`t see much interest in it.  Interest was lukewarm, so MetLife is cutting back. 

 Also we`ll watch the shot of McDonald`s (URL: http://www.mcdonalds.com/) . The company`s reporting same-store sales rising 11 percent from January to February. 

 Let`s go back to Lauren in the studio. 

 LAUREN THIERRY, CNNfn ANCHOR, MARKET COVERAGE:  Fred Katayama at the New York Stock Exchange; thanks very much. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by eMediaMillWorks, Inc.  (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.)  No license is granted to the user of this  material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor  shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or 

 interests in the material; provided, however, that  members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution  to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material.  This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document mktm000020010808dw3a000ya


 Business 
 NYSE Update 

 Kitty Pilgrim, John Metaxas, Greg Clarkin 
1,014 words
10 March 2000
17:00
CNNfn: Market Coverage - Afternoon
MKTC
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 KITTY PILGRIM, CNNfn ANCHOR, MARKET COVERAGE:    Well, we have our eye on the market and that sell program that kicked in. Greg Clarkin now joins us for a little more perspective on what`s happening at the  New York Stock Exchange.  Greg. 

 GREG CLARKIN, CNNfn STOCK EDITOR: Kitty, late in the day typically you do see some of those sell programs kick in where you do see kind of widespread across the board selling  in various sectors. That`s what we`re seeing right now.  The Dow is down 77, 77 1/2 points or so, trading at 9933. Now you may recall that just earlier this week on a Tuesday I believe that the Dow did close below 10,000.  That was on the heels of Procter & Gamble (URL: http://www.pg.com/) profit warning. That drove up P&G shares lower by $27 a share and believe it or not, that company one of the culprits again  today.  That stock has been weak all day long. At last check, it was trading off about $4 or so.  It`s in the low `50s now. This for a stock that was trading up around 120 or so  towards the end of `99.  So we are seeing the Dow losing ground down 71, 9939.  We`ve seen pretty decent volume. It`s just crossed the billion mark and as far as the breadth of  the marketplace goes, we`re seeing decliners ahead of advancers by about a 5 to 4 breakdown and one area that we have seen a lot of flip flopping today. Some of  the big board tech stocks or some of the Dow tech stocks rather. 

 Microsoft (URL: http://www.microsoft.com/) , Intel (URL: http://www.intel.com/) , HP (URL: http//www.hp.com/) IBM (URL: http://www.ibm.com/) were all up nicely this morning.  But we did see some of those reverse course, excuse me, on mainly Hewlett-Packard around noon or so.  And that group has been a little bit, a little bit soft.  The financials though have been very, very strong throughout the day. That`s it from here. Back to you in the studio. 

 PILGRIM:  Greg, quick question. We had a fairly quiet day today up until now. And a lot of people around a little early afternoon were saying this is probably it. We`re going to just walk into the weekend. The activity`s over. All of a sudden we get this flurry of activity. Certainly looks busy on the floor there. 

 CLARKIN:  It does. Things do pick up here when you get these sell proms. That is typical of this.  We should point out the Dow now down 6971. So coming back a little bit.  But again, keep in mind also, we`re probabl;y going to see a fair mount of this leading up towards the end of the month.  We are coming up to the end of the first quarter when various money managers, portfolio managers will make some big  changes to their portfolios, to their holdings.  So we`re probably going to see some more volatility, some or heightened volatility really as we head toward the end of March and right now we are seeing some of that here again. Right now we seeing some of that here. The Dow down about 68 at 9933. Back to you. 

 JOHN METAXAS, CNNfn ANCHOR, MARKET COVERAGE: And yet what`s really interesting is that the Dow cannot get any traction in here even when it rallies above 10,000. They bring it back down. No real upside movement with any kind of strength here. 

 CLARKIN:  John, all day long as soon as the Dow made any kind of headway, anything you can consider decent headway, 30, 40, in one case 60, 65 points, it was quickly sucked back down, pulled back down by some profit taking and again we`re seeing those consumer names.  If you`ve got a brand name, if you`re in the supermarket these days, those stocks are having a really tough go of it. Coca-Cola (URL: http://www.cocacola.com/) shares  were off multiple points before.  We saw again Procter & Gamble (URL: http://www.pg.com/) lower.   So it`s really the curse of the consumers this week as that kind of divide between  old economy,  new economy, we`ve heard it for weeks now. But really this week provided a stark example of that, these old economy companies that do labor under real world pressure is rising petroleum, rising paper prices and price wars, really  taking it on the chin this week and that`s responsible for this kind of pall that`s cast over the Dow which many folks perceive  as having just a heavy, heavy batch of those old economy stocks. 

 PILGRIM: All right, thanks very much, Greg Clarkin reporting. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc.  ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.)  No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall  user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members  of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to  CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material.  This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document mktc000020010808dw3a001j8


 Business 
 NYSE Update 

 Kitty Pilgrim, Greg Clarkin 
659 words
10 March 2000
17:00
CNNfn: Market Coverage - Afternoon
MKTC
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 GREG CLARKIN, CNNfn ANCHOR, MARKET COVERAGE:  I`m Greg Clarkin at the New York Stock Exchange where we`ve talked about it for days, weeks, and in some cases, months. Today really an example of the old economy and new economy split in the stock market. We`re seeing the Dow industrials which have consume names such as Coca-Cola (URL: http://www.cocacola.com/) , Procter & Gamble (URL: http://www.pg.com/) among them. Really having a tough go of it. Very choppy session; every time the Dow builds up some headway it is pulled back by profit taking. And those consumer stocks do deal with real world, old economy issues in some cases. They are all trading lower.  We`re seeing Coca-Cola shares off. We`re seeing shares of Procter & Gamble lower. That stock lost 27 earlier this week on a profit warning. It is tacking an additional $4 on the lost column. 

 P&G shares now trading at 53 3/4. A far cry from the 120 where they were at the end of last year. So we`re seeing a lot of the perceived older stocks to be under pressure today. We are seeing some strength in is the financial stocks. We`re seeing strength in American Express (URL: http://www.americanexpress.com/) . That is up 6 5/8 and General Electric (URL: http://www.ge.com) with it`s large financial arm GE Capital is gaining ground. That`s up better than 3. 

 Let`s take a look at some of the other movers on the NYSE at this hour. As I mention Amex is up nicely, GE also, and then ExxonMobil (URL: http://www.exxon.mobil.com/) is losing ground.  It`s down 3 3/16.  We have Hewlett-Packard (URL: http//www.hp.com) a really complete reversal. This is a stock that was up a bit in the early going when there was a fair amount of positive momentum, a positive follow through to yesterday`s triple-digit gain on the Dow.  That stock reversed around midday.  It`s losing better than 3 at the moment.  Again P&G shares off 3 5/8.  They have  been as low as $4 in the loss column. 

 Overall, we are seeing fairly decent volume on the NYSE; 990 million shares. So just a few or just shy of one billion which it looks sure to crack. Right now the Dow is back in positive territory, but just barely. It`s up 5 1/2 point, 10,010 is the level. That`s it for the New York Stock Exchange, let`s go up to John and Kitty in the studio. 

 KITTY PILGRIM, CNNfn ANCHOR, MARKET COVERAGE:  Thanks very much. Greg Clarkin. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.)  No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for  user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that  may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or 

 interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material.  This is not a legal  transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document mktc000020010808dw3a001j3


 Business 
 NYSE Update 

 Greg Clarkin, Sasha Salama, 
726 words
10 March 2000
17:00
CNNfn: Market Coverage - Afternoon
MKTC
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 SASHA SALAMA, CNNfn ANCHOR, MARKET COVERAGE: For more details now on what stocks are doing At the big board, let`s check in with Greg Clarkin. He is tracking all the action at the New York Stock Exchange. Hi, Greg. 

 GREG CLARKIN, CNNfn STOCK EDITOR: Hi there, Sasha. And it has been a very  volatile hour back at 11:00 or so, just 60 minutes ago, the Dow was up better than 65 point, up around 65, 66 points in the gain column. You can see now the Sow is trading lower. So we`ve seen a hundred-point swing over the last 60 minutes and we`ve seen a lot of the tech stocks that have been higher this morning just completely reverse course and move lower. Among them, Hewlett-Packard (URL: http//www.hp.com/) , IBM (URL: http://www.ibm.com/) ,  and Intel (URL: http://www.intel.com/) . Those stocks are all nicely higher an hour ago. And they are trading lower. The only one hanging on to a gain really on the Dow at least is Microsoft (URL: http://www.microsoft.com/) . It`s up a fraction, but that had been sharply higher. One common denominator that we have seen here all day long really is the consumer good stocks, the consumer cyclicals, so to speak. Procter & Gamble (URL: http://www.pg.com/) which really triggered something of an earthquake earlier this week with the profit warning. That stock is lower today again today, it`s losing 3 or $4. It`s now trading somewhere around $54 a share. We`re seeing shares of Coca-Cola (URL: http://www.cocacola.com/) lower. That stock has been off all day. It is trading lower right now. It`s down by better than 2 1/2 or so. The consumer group had another tremor rip through it this morning with a profit warning from Dial Corporation (URL: http://www.dialcorp.com/) . That company saying that basically a detergent war in Argentina as well as weak sales of Armor (ph) canned meats line will contribute to a profit shortfall and we saw a number of brokerage houses come out this morning and make moves on that. Let`s take a look if we can at Dial shares, give you an idea of what they`re doing. Keep in mind, last July this stock was trading at better than $38. Look where it is today. The damage being done right now. It`s off 3 1/2 trading at 10 3/4. And some of the other stocks that moved sometimes in tandem with these consumer goods stocks include Procter & Gamble, Clorox  (URL: http://www.clorox.com/) and Colgate-Palmolive (URL: http://www.colgate.com/) . And again, you can see that those stocks are weak as well. Clorox down 4. Colgate-Palmolive off 2. And as I mentioned P&G  Shares down almost 4 at the moment. We are  seeing fairly decent volume on the NYSE, about 565 million shares have traded. Advancers behind decliners. Decliners 1573. Advancers 1195. Overall the Dow right now is lower by 24 1/2 points. 9986. Sasha, back to you. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc.  ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.)  No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material  except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any  fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than  250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not  a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document mktc000020010808dw3a001i2




BUSINESS
FINANCIAL
BUSINESS 

752 words
10 March 2000
Chicago Sun-Times
CHI
English
© 2000 Chicago Sun Times.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.  All rights reserved.  

Microsoft takes on PlayStation 2 Microsoft Corp. unveiled a video- game console system to enable the world's biggest software maker to compete with Sony Corp.'s PlayStation 2 for leadership of the $17 billion market for games. Microsoft has worked 16 months on its console, dubbed the X-Box. It plans to spend billions of dollars on development and marketing to take on Sony, Nintendo Co. and Sega Enterprises Ltd. Consoles are challenging personal computers, where Microsoft makes the bulk of its sales, to become the main hubs for digital entertainment, including movies, music and Web access. Sony is building a line of consumer-entertainment products around the PlayStation 2, which will have Internet access eventually. First Union CEO steps down First Union Corp. said President G. Kennedy Thompson will become chief executive of the sixth-largest U.S. bank as Chairman and CEO Edward E. Crutchfield gives up daily management to seek treatment for cancer. 

Thompson, 49, was appointed president in 1999, and has been the public face of the Charlotte, N.C., bank as it battled an earnings slump over the past year. Crutchfield, 58, who built the bank through an aggressive campaign of takeovers and cost cutting, will keep his post as chairman until at least Dec. 31, 2001, the bank said. Thompson will become CEO of the bank at the annual shareholders meeting on April 18. US Airways attendants detail targets The union representing US Airways flight attendants today released a list of 49 flight routes that they may randomly strike if the company does not agree to pay raises and other contract improvements. The Association of Flight Attendants said it was releasing the list prior to the planned March 25 strike action so that customers would have time to book other flights. But the airline said it would shut down all its routes if no accord is reached by then. The targeted routes affect flights to and from several major cities. The routes include several flights in and out of New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, Houston, Philadelphia, Phoenix, Atlanta and Baltimore, among others. The strikes could occur all at once or at random each day, according to the union. Dial warns of lower earnings Soapmaker Dial Corp. said today its earnings per share will be down by at least 10 percent in the first half compared with a year ago. Its stock price plunged on the news. Dial's announcement followed a similar earnings warning from consumer products industry leader Procter &Gamble Co. that caused that company's stock to dive by about 31 percent on Tuesday and raised worries about the entire group. Dial, whose brands include Dial soap, Purex laundry detergents, Renuzit air fresheners and Armour Star canned meats, said inventory adjustments as its second-largest customer converted from buying direct to buying through wholesalers had hurt sales. Wolters Kluwer CEO quits after 6 months Wolters Kluwer NV Chief Executive Caspar van Kempen quit after his board declined to accelerate Europe's biggest legal and tax publisher's move to the Internet, even as the Dutch company said current spending on new media will wipe out growth in profit for at least two years. The stock fell 26 percent, its biggest one-day drop, to a three-year low, after Wolters Kluwer said it will limit Internet spending on Web publishing over the next three years. Van Kempen, 55, resigned today after just six months at the helm. He wasn't immediately available for comment. Van Kempen will be replaced by Robert Pieterse, currently vice chairman. Pieterse, 57, has been on the board since 1987. Analysts were taken aback by the resignation and the announcement that profit growth would be flat in 2000 and 2001 following 16 percent growth in 1999. "We had the impression that all noses were pointing in the same direction," said Reinier Westeneng, an analyst at SNS Securities. "If there's disagreement at the top, that's not a good thing." Wolters Kluwer is the parent of Riverwoods-based CCH. Profit-taking shrivels beans Grain and soybean futures retreated today on the Chicago Board of Trade in profit-taking ahead of the weekend. Wheat for May delivery fell 3 1/4 cents to $2.60 a bushel; May corn fell 1/2 cent to $2.26 3/4 a bushel; May oats fell 1 cent to $1.16 1/2 a bushel; May soybeans fell 6 3/4 cents to $5.09 3/4 a bushel.  

Document chi0000020010804dw3a007ve




 P&G's Pulp Exposure Underlines Lack Of Consumer Hedging 

 By Zahida Hafeez 
887 words
10 March 2000
16:42
Dow Jones Commodities Service
DJCS
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 CHICAGO -(Dow Jones)- Procter & Gamble Co.'s (PG) vulnerability to rising pulp prices, revealed in its earnings warning earlier this week, exposed the fact that most consumers of the commodity don't hedge their purchases. 

 Industry experts say that's partly the result of experience, with pulp prices having been so weak in recent years, but also due to unfamiliarity with hedging. Some say P&G's exposure is likely to encourage more hedging. 

 When P&G, the largest North American consumer of pulp through its tissue brands Bounty and Charmin, revised down its third and fourth quarter earnings forecasts within two weeks, its chief executive Durk Jager told Dow Jones Newswires there was "very little" the company could have done to detect or prevent problems arising out of higher pulp and petroleum prices. 

 But hedging experts disagree. 

 Two years ago, "When Asia dried up, when prices fell off, buyers had a fantastic opportunity to lock in prices," said Jeff Mehan of the brokerage firm Tradition Financial Services, which advises on and brokers hedging deals between buyers and sellers. 

 P&G, Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB), and other large pulp consumers do currently use hedging to manage their exposure to volatility in interest rates and currencies, but not to commodity prices. 

 In P&G's case, commodity hedging remains largely restricted to food and beverage products, and "is not material to the company's financial results," it stated in its annual report released Sept. 15, 1999. 

 And P&G spokesman Terry Loftus said his company has absorbed pulp price increases by raising prices for its kitchen and bath tissue brands. 

 Lack Of Hedging Due To Cyclical Prices, Other Factors 

 The lack of interest in hedging is due to the cyclical nature of the pulp and paper industry, an under-developed pulp futures market, the newness of the concept and weak pulp producer participation, analysts say. 

 "I'm not sure if it makes sense to hedge when in the last 10 years there was only one good year for pulp prices in the 1990s, and then now," said Scott Merves, analyst at Bear Stearns & Co., voicing what many companies in the sector take to be a given. 

 "Whether they will start hedging now (after P&G's profit warning), I don't know?" Merves said. 

 What could change the prospects for hedging are greater fears of prices staying at high levels due to consolidation in the pulp and paper industry. Already, pulp prices have risen 30% over the past year to $640 a metric ton for the benchmark Northern Bleached Softwood kraft pulp. 

 Pulpex, the European pulp futures market, trades only low volumes, and that lack of liquidity is one reason pulp consumers and producers have been reluctant to use it. But that lack of liquidity is also the product of low prices. 

 "Now that pulp prices are ratcheting up, above the companies' production costs, I wouldn't be surprised to see producers starting to hedge, (lured in) by the prospect of locking in attractive profits," said Matt Berler, analyst at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. 

 Bear Stearns' Merves said Pulpex trading could draw in more producers if prices rose to between $650 and $700 a ton. That in turn might draw consumers. 

 But until then, Kimberly Clark's Treasurer, Tony Gamron said, "We have to take a wait-and-see attitude." 

 "The reason we are not hedging pulp is because the futures market in pulp isn't a well-developed, liquid market," said Gamron. "We may not find the quality or quantity we need." 

 In the meantime, Kimberly-Clark, whose own mills satisfy up to 40% of the 2.2 million tons of pulp it uses annually, is using strategies such as pulp mill ownership and cutting down on consumption through new technology to mitigate the problems from higher prices. For instance, the company now has in place technology that allows its tissue operations to use 20% less pulp, Gamron said. 

 Pulpex isn't the only way to hedge pulp consumption - there is a burgeoning market in over-the-counter hedging products for pulp and paper. About $4 billion, or between 10 million and 12 million tons of pulp and paper are hedged annually, mostly in the OTC market. 

 P&G could have averted the effect of higher pulp prices had it put in place a plan a year ago using a combination of hedging tools such as swaps, caps, floors, collars, in addition to futures, said Mehan at Tradition. He noted that Pulpex is "mostly used as a pricing mechanism," rather than for trading physical pulp. 

 Reluctance to hedge also stems from a slowness to adapt to change, Mehan said. 

 "In the (pulp and paper) industry, there's a resignation to the (economic) cycle, and that they can't do anything about it except to merge," he said. 

 Following P&G's announcement, interest in hedging seems to be up, Mehan said. His firm has received telephone calls from financial institutions on behalf of pulp and paper products companies seeking advice on "pricing on swap transactions," Mehan said. 

 -By Zahida Hafeez, Dow Jones Newswires; 

 312-750-4132; zahida.hafeez@dowjones.com 

Document djcs000020010805dw3a00cx6




 Financial 
 Dow Gains 61 Points; Nasdaq Up 49 

Associated Press
509 words
9 March 2000
The Washington Post
WP
FINAL
E02
English
 Copyright 2000, The Washington Post Co. All Rights Reserved 

 NEW YORK, March 8 -- Stocks finished a turbulent session mostly higher after the Federal Reserve's latest assessment of the economy reassured investors who were still uneasy in the wake of Tuesday's huge sell-off. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 60.50 to close at 9856.53, recovering some of the 374 points it lost Tuesday. The Nasdaq composite index, which had tumbled as much as 125 points in early trading today, finished up 49.33 at 4897.17. 

 Broader stock indicators were mostly higher, with the Standard & Poor's 500 up 11.08 at 1366.70. But declining stocks were ahead of advancers on the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq Stock Market, a sign that investors remained on edge. 

 The market showed signs of stabilizing in the morning and afternoon, although the Dow and the Nasdaq changed direction several times while investors, still stunned by Tuesday's profit warning from Procter & Gamble, tried to determine their next moves. The Nasdaq was in negative territory much of the time. 

 But in late afternoon, some of the market's gains solidified after Fed economists released their "beige book" survey of economic conditions. The Fed found that although workers' wages are rising, there is little evidence of inflation in the overall economy. 

 The report, which central bankers will consider when they meet March 21 to discuss their interest-rate policy, calmed investors' fears that rates are headed sharply higher. 

 Rate concerns have undermined industrial and financial stocks for weeks, bringing the Dow down sharply from the closing high of 11,722.98 it set in mid-January. With such an atmosphere of uncertainty, Procter & Gamble's warning Tuesday that higher costs for raw materials would depress its earnings unnerved investors; they became convinced that profits would suffer at other companies as well. 

 Procter & Gamble fell 3 today, to 58, extending its loss of 25-7/16 from Tuesday. 

 Some analysts said investors seemed to believe the blue chips had paid too great a price for Procter & Gamble's warning. Brian G. Belski, chief investment strategist at George K. Baum & Co. in Kansas City, Mo., called the sell-off "an overreaction that has really created some good buying opportunities." 

 Today, Johnson & Johnson rose 2 1/2, to 71, and Merck rose 2 7/8, to 56-13/16. Drug stocks outside the Dow were higher, too. Bristol-Myers Squibb soared 4 1/4, to 47 3/4. 

 On the Nasdaq, technology highflier JDS Uniphase fell 11 3/4, to 275 5/8, and Applied Materials fell 4 3/4, to 179 3/8. 

 Buyers stepped in by midafternoon to pick up some high-tech favorites. Oracle rose 8-3/16, to 83 1/8, after announcing that it will join with Wal-Mart and Chevron Corp. to launch an online supply exchange for the convenience-store industry. Also, Microsoft rose 2-11/16, to 95-9/16. 

Document wp00000020010820dw39009je




 Alan Greenspan treading a dicey line. 

722 words
9 March 2000
Straits Times
STIMES
English
(c) 2000 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

 DOW'S PLUNGE 

 IF THERE is one thing to learn from Tuesday's sell-down in US stock markets, it is that Mr Alan Greenspan is treading a dicey line. 

 The powerful US Federal Reserve chairman whose words alone can move markets globally is determined to talk down stock prices after several oblique attempts to rein in the bulls failed. 

 In December 1996, he spoke of irrational exuberance in the stock market but did not target stocks in his inflation watch, being more concerned with wage figures. 

 But with the economy racing ahead with no corresponding rise in wages, he has changed tack. 

 He has now aimed his sights at the "wealth effect" - consumers feeling richer because of gains in stock market "wealth" - rather than income gains. 

 He has even quantified, for the first time, what he considers as excessive gains. 

 While US stock prices do not "necessarily" have to fall, he said the Fed will keep raising borrowing costs to ensure "that these values will increase no faster than household incomes". 

 Given that US household incomes rose 4.9 per cent last year, he is, in effect, suggesting he will come down hard on the stock market if it returns anything like the double-digit gains of the past. 

 It is no wonder that investors bailed out of stocks on news of oil prices soaring to US$34 (S$58) a barrel and a nasty profit warning by Procter & Gamble. When markets are on tenterhooks as they are now, it does not take much to set off a stampede. 

 And this is how a strung-up market behaves. Three of the 10 biggest single-day declines in the Dow, in point terms, took place this year. 

 Maybe it would have plunged 374 points anyway on Tuesday without the spectre of Mr Greenspan hanging over investors' heads. 

 But there is no doubt that his comments took on the role of the Sword of Damocles to add to the jitters. 

 The Dow has gone down 15 per cent so far this year. 

 While few investors own Dow stocks, many invest in mutual funds that mirror the performance of the S&P 500 Index, which is down 7.7 per cent so far this year. 

 No one can predict how US stocks will fare in the coming months. They may consolidate and help the economy achieve the much-hoped-for soft landing. 

 Or it could lead to a worst-case scenario in which the real economy is damaged by a massive outflow of funds from equities. 

 Asia bears the scars of such rampages that stymie their economies when investors flee wholesale from their stock markets. 

 When the balance is tilted, US companies may be just as vulnerable as some Asian counterparts during crisis. This is because most of corporate America is finely geared since US valuation models favour companies that have the right mixture of debt and equity. 

 But if this equilibrium is disturbed as a result of plunging stock prices, the debt portion will overwhelm the equity portion. 

 Collaterals fall in value, margin calls are triggered. Next, convertible warrants become useless and soon debts pile up. 

 These were what many Asian companies discovered to their great pain during the recent regional crisis. 

 Already, there are rumblings of discontent from the US Congress over rising interest rates because of crimped corporate profits. Mr Greenspan handled some tough questions from senators last month after presenting the semi-annual economic report. 

 They wanted to know why he was so bent on raising rates to combat a non-existent enemy, inflation. 

 So far, his stature as a brilliant central banker has ensured that the rumblings remained just that. 

 But this is a presidential election year. It will not have escaped Republican front-runner George Bush's notice that his father lost his presidency over the electorate's perception of his handling of the economy. Neither will it escape Democrat candidates. 

 And if Americans are hit in the wallet, calls to rein in Mr Greenspan and the other hawkish central bank governors are likely to grow. 

 Mr Greenspan has set out to corral the bulls. His problem is to make sure he does not do it so well that he starves them to death. 

 (c) 2000 Singapore Press Holdings Limited. 

Document stimes0020010817dw390032c




 Business 
 Investors still uneasy, but Fed soothes market 

 Eileen Glanton 
ASSOCIATED PRESS
658 words
9 March 2000
San Antonio Express-News
SAEN
Metro
01E
English
 (c) Copyright 2000 San Antonio Express-News. All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK - Stocks finished a turbulent session mostly higher Wednesday after the Federal Reserve's latest assessment of the economy reassured investors who were still uneasy following Tuesday's huge selloff. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 60.50 to close at 9,856.53, recovering some of the 374 points it lost Tuesday. The Nasdaq composite index, which had tumbled as much as 125 points in early trading Wednesday, finished up 49.33 at 4,897.17. 

 Broader stock indicators were mostly higher, with the Standard & Poor's 500 up 11.08 at 1,366.70. But declining stocks were ahead of advancers on the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq Stock Market, a sign that investors remained on edge. 

 The market showed signs of stabilizing in the morning and afternoon, although the Dow and the Nasdaq changed direction several times while investors, still stunned by Tuesday's profit warning from Procter & Gamble, tried to determine their next moves. The Nasdaq was in negative territory much of the time. 

 But in late afternoon, some of the market's gains solidified after Fed economists released their "beige book" survey of economic conditions. 

 The Fed found that although workers' wages are rising, there is little evidence of inflation in the overall economy. 

 The report, which central bankers will consider when they meet March 21 to discuss their interest rate policy, calmed investors' fears that rates are headed sharply higher. The Fed has raised rates four times since last June, and Chairman Alan Greenspan has made no secret of his willingness to raise rates further to slow the economy. 

 Interest rate concerns have undermined industrial and financial stocks for weeks, bringing the Dow down sharply from the closing high of 11,722.98 it set in mid-January. With such an atmosphere of uncertainty, Procter & Gamble's warning Tuesday that higher costs for raw materials would depress its earnings completely unnerved investors; they became convinced that profits would suffer at other companies as well. 

 Procter & Gamble remained out of favor Wednesday, falling 35/16 to 5711/16 and extending its loss of 257/16 from Tuesday. 

 Some analysts said investors seemed to believe the blue chips had paid too great a price for Procter & Gamble's warning. 

 "There was no sense to the magnitude of the selloff," said Brian Belski, chief investment strategist at George K. Baum & Co. in Kansas City, Mo. "It was an overreaction that has really created some good buying opportunities." 

 On Wednesday, Johnson & Johnson rose 211/16 to 713/16, and Merck rose 27/8 to 5613/16. Drug stocks outside the Dow were higher, too. Bristol-Myers Squibb soared 41/4 to47 3/4. 

 "Some beaten-up sectors of the market are finally getting some attention," said Francis Gannon, senior vice president and portfolio manager at SunAmerica Asset Management in New York. 

 The Nasdaq's performance was mixed as investors continued taking profits from some of the stocks that propelled the index above 5,000 for a brief time on Tuesday. Technology high-flyer JDS Uniphase fell 113/8 to 2755/8, and Applied Materials fell 43/4 to 1793/8. 

 Buyers stepped in by midafternoon to pick up some high-tech favorites. Oracle rose 83/16 to 831/8 after announcing that it will join with Wal-Mart and Chevron Corp. to launch an online supply exchange for the convenience-store industry. Also, Microsoft rose 211/16 to 959/16. 

 "You have to continue to buy the stocks that are leading the market, and for the foreseeable future, that means technology," Gannon said. 

 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 0.79 to 594.68. 

 RICHARD DREW/Associated Press Specialist Michael Bader (second right) directs trades in shares of Procter & Gamble on Wednesday on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. 

Document saen000020010813dw3900725




 Business 
 Sighs of relief, signs of rally 

THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
924 words
9 March 2000
The News & Observer Raleigh, NC
RNOB
Final
D4
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 NEW YORK -- Stocks finished a turbulent session mostly higher Wednesday after the Federal Reserve's latest assessment of the economy reassured investors who were still uneasy following Tuesday's huge sell-off. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 60.50 points to 9,856.53, recovering some of the 374 .47 that it lost Tuesday. The Nasdaq composite index, which was down as many as 125 points, finished up 49.33 at 4,897.17. 

 Broader stock indicators were mostly higher, with the Standard & Poor's 500 up 11.08 at 1,366.70. But declining stocks were ahead of advancers on the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq, a sign that investors remained on edge. 

 The market showed signs of stabilizing in the morning and afternoon, although the Dow and the Nasdaq changed direction several times while investors, still stunned by Tuesday's profit warning from Procter & Gamble, tried to determine their next moves. 

 But by late afternoon, some of the market's gains were solidified after Fed economists released their "beige book" survey of economic conditions. The Fed found that although workers' wages are rising, there is little evidence of inflation in the overall economy. 

 The report, which central bankers will consider when they meet March 21 to discuss their interest-rate policy, calmed investors' fears that rates are headed sharply higher. The Fed has raised rates four times since lJune, and Chairman Alan Greenspan has made no secret of his willingness to raise rates further to slow the economy and fend off inflation. 

 Greenspan cautioned bankers Wednesday to avoid making loans on the expectation that the vibrant economy will continue unabated, because a downturn could bring defaults by borrowers. 

 In a speech to a community bankers' group, Greenspan said there is a "troubling trend" of many banks taking the strong economy for granted and considering it "ordinary and expected." 

 "Lending granted on that basis could have grave consequences for the [banking] industry's ability to weather weaker economic conditions," Greenspan said in a speech to the Independent Community Bankers of America in San Antonio. 

 His remarks came two days after he publicly expressed concern that the nation's record-breaking economic expansion could be ended by a resurgence of inflation unless growth is slowed to a more sustainable level. 

 Interest-rate concerns have undermined industrial and financial stocks for weeks, bringing the Dow down sharply from the closing high of 11,722.98 it set in mid-January. With such an atmosphere of uncertainty, Procter & Gamble's warning Tuesday that higher costs for raw materials would depress its earnings completely unnerved investors; they became convinced that profits would suffer at other companies as well. 

 Procter & Gamble remained out of favor Wednesday, falling $3 to $58 and extending its loss of $25.438 from Tuesday. 

 Some analysts said investors seemed to believe the blue chips had paid too great a price for Procter & Gamble's warning. 

 "There was no sense to the magnitude of the sell-off," said Brian G. Belski, chief investment strategist at George K. Baum & Co. in Kansas City, Mo. "It was an overreaction that has really created some good buying opportunities." 

 Johnson & Johnson rose $2.50 to $71, and Merck rose $2.875 to $56.813. Drug stocks outside the Dow were higher, too. Bristol-Myers Squibb soared $4.25 to $47.75. 

 "Some beaten-up sectors of the market are finally getting some attention," said Francis Gannon, senior vice president and portfolio manager at SunAmerica Asset Management in New York. 

 The Nasdaq's performance was mixed as investors continued taking profits from some of the stocks that propelled the index above 5,000 briefly Tuesday. JDS Uniphase fell $11.75 to $275.625, and Applied Materials fell $4.75 to $179.375. 

 Buyers stepped in by midafternoon to pick up some high-tech favorites. Oracle rose $8.188 to $83.125 after announcing that it will join with Wal-Mart and Chevron to launch an online supply exchange for the convenience-store industry. Microsoft rose $2.688 to $95.563. 

 "You have to continue to buy the stocks that are leading the market, and for the forseeable future, that means technology," Gannon said. 

 Although the Fed found that the booming economy hasn't ignited inflation, it is contributing to widespread labor shortages and putting pressure on some employers to boost wages. The Fed's survey, based on reports from its 12 regional banks, said labor markets remain tight across the country. That means employers are having trouble finding workers to fill job openings, something Greenspan and other economists fear could lead to wage and price inflation. 

 "The Fed is laying a solid intellectual foundation for more tightening," said Mark Zandi, an economist at RFA Dismal Sciences. 

 First Union economist Mark Vitner called the survey "a virtual blueprint for higher interest rates." 

 Companies are adjusting to a lack of available recruits by paying existing workers overtime, emphasizing bonuses and other benefits and hiring senior citizens and teens to fill jobs once held largely by working-age adults, the Fed reported. 

 "The March beige book paints a clear picture of an economy straining at the seams," Ian Shepherdson, chief U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y., told Bloomberg News. "There was more detail and a more worrying tone to the comments on the labor market." 

The Fed's beige book nudges investors back toward blue-chip stocks.

Document rnob000020010813dw39007wf




BUSINESS
STOCKS RISE ON ECONOMIC NEWS PARTIAL RECOVERY IN HECTIC TRADING 

EILEEN GLANTON, The Associated Press 
697 words
9 March 2000
The Record
REC
English
© 2000 North Jersey Media Group Inc. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All rights reserved.  

Stocks finished a turbulent session mostly higher Wednesday after the Federal Reserve's latest assessment of the economy reassured investors who were still uneasy after Tuesday's huge sell-off. 

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 60.50 to close at 9,856.53, recovering some of the 374 points it lost Tuesday. The Nasdaq composite index, which had tumbled as much as 125 points in early trading Wednesday, finished up 49.33 at 4,897.17. 

Broader stock indicators were mostly higher, with the Standard & Poor's 500 up 11.08 at 1,366.70. But declining stocks were ahead of advancers on the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq Stock Market, a sign that investors remained on edge. 

The market showed signs of stabilizing in the morning and afternoon, although the Dow and the Nasdaq changed direction several times while investors, still stunned by Tuesday's profit warning from Procter &Gamble, tried to decide their next moves. The Nasdaq was in negative territory much of the time. 

But in late afternoon, some of the market's gains solidified after Fed economists released their "beige book" survey of economic conditions. The Fed found that although wages are rising, there is little evidence of inflation in the overall economy. 

The report, which central bankers will consider when they meet March 21 to discuss their interest rate policy, calmed investors' fears that rates are headed sharply higher. The Fed has raised rates four times since June, and Chairman Alan Greenspan has made no secret of his willingness to raise rates further to slow the economy. 

Interest rate concerns have undermined industrial and financial stocks for weeks, bringing the Dow down sharply from the closing high of 11,722.98 it set in mid-January. With such an atmosphere of uncertainty, Procter &Gamble's warning Tuesday that higher costs for raw materials would depress its earnings completely unnerved investors. They became convinced that profits would suffer at other companies as well. 

Procter &Gamble remained out of favor Wednesday, falling $3 to $58 and extending its loss of $25.43 3/4 from Tuesday. 

Some analysts said investors seemed to believe that the blue chips had paid too great a price for Procter &Gamble's warning. 

"There was no sense to the magnitude of the sell-off," said Brian G. Belski, chief investment strategist at George K. Baum &Co. in Kansas City, Mo. "It was an overreaction that has really created some good buying opportunities." 

On Wednesday, Johnson &Johnson rose $2.50 to $71, and Merck rose $2.87 1/2 to $56.81 1/4. Drug stocks outside the Dow were higher, too. Bristol-Myers Squibb soared $4.25 to $47.75. 

"Some beaten-up sectors of the market are finally getting some attention," said Francis Gannon, senior vice president and portfolio manager at SunAmerica Asset Management in New York. 

The Nasdaq's performance was mixed as investors continued taking profits from some of the stocks that propelled the index above 5,000 for a brief time on Tuesday. Technology high-flier JDS Uniphase fell $11.75 to $275.62 1/2, and Applied Materials fell $4.75 to $179.37 1/ 2. 

Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 10-to-9 ratio on the New York Stock Exchange. On the Nasdaq, five stocks fell for every four that rose. 

NYSE volume totaled 1.48 billion shares, compared with 1.30 billion in the previous session. 

The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 0.79 to 594.68. 

Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average fell 0.9 percent. Germany's Xetra DAX index slid 1.0 percent, and Britain's FT-SE 100 fell 0.9 percent. France's CAC-40 closed 1.5 percent lower.  

1 - COLOR PHOTO - ASSOCIATED PRESS - Specialist Joe Zeccola, second  from right, conducting trades in Bristol-Myers Squibb shares  Wednesday on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. The Dow rose  60.50 to close at 9,856.53.; 2 - COLOR GRAPHIC - Dow Jones Industrial  Average (TEXT UNAVAILABLE) 

Document rec0000020010812dw39007hh




 Around the World's Markets - New York. 

115 words
9 March 2000
The Independent - London
IND
20
English
(c) 2000 Independent Newspapers (UK) Limited . All rights reserved. This material may not be published, distributed or exploited in any way.

 BLUE-CHIP shares moved in and out of positive territory in early morning trading, still on unsure ground a day after a Procter & Gamble profit warning knocked 3.7 per cent off the Dow. The Dow was 14 points lower, or 0.15 per cent, at 9,781. The Nasdaq slid off morning highs and was down 27 points, or 0.56 per cent, at 4,820. 

 Trading was volatile after Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan urged the banking sector to be cautious about risky lending. 

 (c) Independent Newspapers (UK) Limited 2000. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, distributed or exploited in any way. 

Document ind0000020010811dw3900q3h




REGULY
 Report on Business Column 
 Old Economy Procter & Gamble has been unfairly punished, Eric Reguly says 

 ERIC REGULY 
891 words
9 March 2000
The Globe and Mail
GLOB
Metro
B15
English
 All material copyright Thomson Canada Limited or its licensors. All rights reserved. 

 For a century and a half, Procter & Gamble expanded with all of the enthusiasm and energy of the United States itself. Ivory soap, invented in 1879 and still a top seller today, is an example of its remarkable ability to cater to the needs of generation after generation of consumers. Then P&G ran smack into the New Economy and lost. You know there is something fundamentally flawed about a market that labels mighty P&G a has-been, a relic of another era. As far as investors are concerned, it may as well be making whale-bone corsets or steam engines instead of Pampers and Tide. 

 On Tuesday, P&G stock lost 31 per cent of its value, raising its two-month slide to 50 per cent, equivalent to about $85-billion (U.S.). The shares took another beating yesterday. The massive selloff was triggered by a warning that first-quarter profit will fall about 10 per cent. While not insignificant, the crime hardly warranted the punishment. P&G's true crime, it appears, is that it lacked the cherished dot-com suffix. If it ain't there, you're automatically chucked like an old tire onto the burgeoning heap of Old Economy names. 

 The investment community talks about the New Economy as if a new age had suddenly dawned, and that everything created before the mid-1990s or so is of waning importance at best and doomed to extinction at worst. In the New Economy, growth is valued more highly than profit and information more than tangible goods. These assumptions have turned into a mantra, which helps to explain the market's bizarre behaviour. 

 To wit: Last week, Rolls-Royce, the British maker of aircraft engines, reported strong profit and promised double-digit growth for some time to come. Investors welcomed the news by driving the share price down almost 10 per cent. 

 The same week, Psion, the British maker of handheld computers, reported a massive fall in profit and said the near-term profit outlook is bleak. Investors welcomed the news by larding another 12 per cent onto the share price, which was already up 700 per cent since last fall. Psion is a New Economy stock and Rolls-Royce is not, although the company must have been bewildered to learn that making jet engines defines it as an old-style metal basher. 

 The New Economy flatters itself. Anyone who has read a history book or economics text might realize there has always been a New Economy, an Old Economy and an Economy In Between. New industries spawn new companies. In time, when the market becomes saturated or demand levels off, the industries reach maturity. Eventually, they go into decline, although this is not always the case. Some industries, written off for dead, use imagination, technology, service and lower prices to reinvent themselves. The railways are a good example. In recent years, they have become logistics companies with the ability to handle all a customer's transportation requirements. 

 According to the New Economy gurus, which includes everyone under the age of 30, there has never been anything like the Internet for sheer excitement in terms of productivity enhancement, market democratization, consumer empowerment, convenience, efficiency and wealth creation -- a true and rare revolution, in other words. This might be news to previous generations, who thought they were at the forefront of the New Economy. Is the Internet a greater force than television was in the postwar years, or radio and the telephone in the early part of the century, or the telegraph in the 1800s? What about the invention of the steam engine, which made sail-powered cargo ships obsolete overnight? Productivity growth, in fact, was lower during the tech-dazzled 1990s than it was during much of the century. 

 The stock markets' soaring tech sectors say otherwise. The tech-fuelled Nasdaq market rose about 80 per cent last year. It has climbed 20 per cent this year, compared with the 14-per-cent decline of the Dow, now synonymous with the Old Economy. Of course, the New Economy is real and will create more companies such as America Online and Yahoo. But stock markets are notoriously bad forecasters of the future. They tend to overestimate the short- to medium-term impacts of new technologies and underestimate the staying power of the old ones. 

 Which takes us back to P&G and companies like it. P&G was unfairly punished. It will survive, and when investors realize that paying fortunes for companies with no earnings and dubious survival prospects makes no sense, they will come back into favour. Soap and toothpaste and diapers are still basic human needs. 

 This is not to say that P&G can sit back and wait for the inevitable rotation into "value" plays. It has to use the technology to launch innovative new products at a low price, and the Internet is a great tool to accomplish this. Eventually, the market will reward the companies that use the technology to their advantage instead of just those that create it. Readers can leave phone messages at (416) 585-5399, or send e-mail to ereguly@globeandmail.ca 

Document glob000020010806dw3900byi




YESTERDAY'S MARKETS
 Report on Business: Money & Markets 
 OVERSEAS MARKETS 

413 words
9 March 2000
The Globe and Mail
GLOB
Metro
B19
English
 All material copyright Thomson Canada Limited or its licensors. All rights reserved. 

 London media stocks fell, paced by British Sky Broadcasting PLC after Canal Plus SA said its 1999 loss widened. Reckitt Benckiser PLC and Unilever PLC sank on U.S. rival Procter & Gamble Co.'s profit warning. The FT-SE 100-stock index lost 55.3 points to 6,411.2. 

 In Hong Kong, the Hang Seng index gained 86.07 points to 17,951.43, its fifth record this year. HSBC Holdings PLC led the upsurge on news of Hong Kong's better-than-expected economic growth. 

 Tokyo's market fell, led by Internet-related stocks on worry rising U.S. interest rates will sink valuations of U.S. on-line pioneers they are often benchmarked against. The Nikkei 225-stock index slid 177.44 points to 19,766.8. 

 Stocks in Mexico hit a record high in reaction to an upgrade in Mexico's investment rating. The IPC index jumped 289.25 points or 3.6 per cent to 8,295.20. 

 OVERSEAS INDEXES 


                            99/00     99/00
Yesterday         Previous  high      low
 Amsterdam AEX    674.75    677.21    680.51    507.29
 Brussels         2690.06   2698.78   3686.24   2690.06
 Frankfurt DAX    7987.00   8064.97   8064.97   4678.72
 Hong Kong        17951.43  17865.36  17951.43  9076.33
 London FT 250    6743.5    6789.3    6838.9    4829.1
FT-SE 100         6411.2    6466.5    6930.2    5770.2
 Mexico City      8295.20   8005.95   8295.20   3300.42
 Milan            33977     34030     34819     22309
 Paris CAC-40     6344.97   6441.85   6577.85   3942.66
 Sydney All ord   3218.5    3251.0    3251.0    2779.7
 Tokyo            19766.80  19944.24  20081.67  13232.74
 Zurich SMI       6945.5    7050.2    7668.8    6616.7



EMERGING MARKETS



               Close   Chg
Athens        4868.13  --73.17
Bangkok       385.56   +5.21
Bombay        5511.42  --78.43
Buenos Aires  617.20   --0.58
Caracas       6004.82  +36.50
China World   902.88   +2.08
Jakarta       570.05   +7.29
Johannesburg  8018.00  --56.40
Karachi       1968.25  --9.06
 [n]           Close    Chg
Kuala Lumpur  930.72    +1.28
Madrid        12668.30  +1.10
Manila        1639.79   --46.93
Santiago      5280.18   +43.82
Sao Paulo     18282.93  --348.80
Seoul         915.94    +8.60
Singapore     2072.58   --18.72
Taipei        9389.49   +9.42
Turkey        17344.16  +120.97


Document glob000020010806dw3900bvu




 Business 
 Modest rebound for stocks  -  Investor fear lingering over economy's strength 

 David Schwab 
Star-Ledger Staff
818 words
9 March 2000
The Star-Ledger Newark, NJ
NSL
FINAL
037
English
 (c) 2000. The Star-Ledger. All rights reserved. 

 All three of Wall Street's major stock indices rose yesterday. 

 For a change. 

 A day after its worst drop in 18 months, the Dow Jones industrial average crept back, reclaiming 60 of the 374 points it shed on Tuesday, while the Nasdaq composite index and the S&P 500 Index both nudged upward. 

 But there was hardly an outbreak of euphoria. 

 ''There's a little bit of nervousness out there," said Kenneth Shea, director of equity research for Standard & Poor's. 

 The Dow gained 60.50 points, or 0.62 percent, finishing at 9,856.53 as some investors went bargain-hunting for big names beaten down in the two previous sessions, with shares of Johnson & Johnson surging 3.6 percent and shares of Merck & Co. back up almost 5 percent. 

 Over at the Nasdaq, which stars some of America's hottest technology companies, shares held their own. 

 It rebounded to finish up 49.33, or 1.02 percent, at 4,897.17, after plunging almost 200 points - not an easy feat given the steep selloff in blue-chip standbys just the day before, according to some analysts. 

 The Standard & Poor's 500 Index, a broader measure of stocks, rose 11.10, or 0.82 percent, to 1,366.72 

 Tuesday's unexpected profit warning from Procter & Gamble - which triggered the massive selloff on the Dow - plus an all-but-certain interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve later this month are now mostly factored into stock prices, analysts say. But there are other developments ahead. 

 In the coming weeks, analysts will watch corporate earnings for more potential disappointments that could signal a further slow down in the economy and that could dull the luster of some high performing stocks. Procter & Gamble, which Tuesday plunged 31 percent, dropped another 5 percent yesterday. 

 Analysts are also wondering what clues the Fed may drop at its March 21 meeting about how much higher interest rates will go. 

 Some are suggesting rates could eventually rise by a whole percentage point or more by year's end before Alan Greenspan will be convinced he has reined in the nation's booming economy. 

 ''There is a fear," said A. Michael Lipper, chairman of the mutual fund tracking firm Lipper Inc. in Summit, referring to the possibility that rates could eventually go up by perhaps as much as 2 percentage points. 

 In another indication of an economy on a roll, the Fed's latest survey of the nation's economy reported signs of continued robustness in the New York City metropolitan area. 

 Home building in northern New Jersey was "exceptionally strong," up about 10 percent over a year ago, with shortages of workers looming over the peak spring construction season, according to the Fed's monthly Beige Book report. 

 Labor shortages also are intensifying in the New York region, with salaries up as much as 15 percent in the last year for many college graduates hired through recruiting agencies, according to the Fed report. 

 Mark Vitner, a vice president and economist at First Union Securities Inc. in Charlotte, N.C., called the Fed's report "one of the strongest in recent memory." 

 When it comes to stocks, market analysts are continuing to try to make sense of the conflicting trajectories of the so-called "old economy" stocks, as represented by the Dow, versus the so-called "new economy" firms, the high-growth, high-tech companies that make up the Nasdaq. 

 The Dow is down almost 16 percent from its high on Jan. 14 while the Nasdaq is up 20 percent for the year. 

 ''We are in a period where there is not a lot of useful history or guide points," Lipper said. 

 One potentially positive development from Tuesday's dramatic selloff on the Dow, according to some analysts, was the possibility that it marked the bottom of the downturn. 

 ''For a classic bottom to be made in a market, you look for a surge in volume," said Harry Milling, an analyst at Morningstar Inc., an investment research firm in Chicago. 

 This heavy volume often signals that investors who had placed bets the market would continue to decline were being forced to cash in their chips instead of waiting any longer. 

 On Tuesday, some 1.3 billion shares were traded on the New York Stock Exchange, the second- highest in six months, with a similar volume traded yesterday. Trading in the 30 Dow stocks on Tuesday was the highest in six months, Milling said. 

 But some analysts are skeptical. 

 In a note to clients, Gail Dudack, chief investment strategist at Warburg Dillon Read in New York, said before yesterday's uptick, the Dow was off to its worst start since 1920, a year in which the Dow slid 33 percent. 

Document nsl0000020010808dw3900e82




 Business 
 FED'S READ OF MARKET CALMS HOST OF WALL ST. ANXIETIES 

 Eileen Glanton  The Associated Press 
590 words
9 March 2000
The Commercial Appeal Memphis, TN
MMPH
Final
C1
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 Stocks finished a turbulent session mostly higher Wednesday after the Federal Reserve's latest assessment of the economy reassured investors who were still uneasy after Tuesday's huge selloff. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 60.50 to close at 9,856.53, recovering some of the 374 points it lost Tuesday. The Nasdaq composite index, which had tumbled as much as 125 points in early trading Wednesday, finished up 49.42 at 4,897.26. 

 Broader stock indicators were mostly higher, with the Standard & Poor's 500 up 11.08 at 1,366.70. But declining stocks were ahead of advancers on the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq Stock Market, a sign that investors remained on edge. 

 The market showed signs of stabilizing in the morning and afternoon, although the Dow and the Nasdaq changed direction several times while investors, still stunned by Tuesday's profit warning from Procter & Gamble, tried to determine their next moves. The Nasdaq was in negative territory much of the time. 

 But in late afternoon, some of the market's gains solidified after Fed economists released their "beige book" survey of economic conditions. The Fed found that although workers' wages are rising, there is little evidence of inflation in the overall economy. 

 The report, which central bankers will consider when they meet March 21 to discuss their interest rate policy, was a calming influence on investors, who fear rates are headed sharply higher. The Fed has raised rates four times since last June, and Chairman Alan Greenspan has made no secret of his willingness to raise rates further to slow the economy. 

 Interest rate concerns have undermined industrial and financial stocks for weeks, bringing the Dow down sharply from the closing high of 11,722.98 it set in mid-January. With such an atmosphere of uncertainty, Procter & Gamble's warning Tuesday that higher costs for raw materials would depress its earnings completely unnerved investors; they became convinced that profits would suffer at other companies as well. 

 Procter & Gamble remained out of favor Wednesday, falling 3 to 58 and extending its loss from Tuesday. 

 Some analysts said investors seemed to believe the blue chips paid too great a price for Procter & Gamble's warning. 

 "There was no sense to the magnitude of the selloff," said Brian G. Belski, chief investment strategist at George K. Baum & Co. in Kansas City, Mo. "It was an overreaction that has really created some good buying opportunities." 

 Buyers stepped in by midafternoon to pick up some high-tech favorites. Oracle was up 8 3/16 to 83 1/8 after announcing that it will join with Wal-Mart and Chevron Corp. to launch an online supply exchange for the convenience-store industry. Also, Microsoft rose 2 11/16 to 95 9/16. 

 The market was also listening closely Wednesday morning as Greenspan spoke to a banking conference in San Antonio. The Fed chairman warned banks to maintain their lending standards even in the face of strong economic conditions. 

 Greenspan's speech contributed to some nervousness, traders said. While Greenspan did not discuss interest rates or monetary policy, he repeated his concerns about Americans' inflated expectations of the economy. 

 "We have seen growing evidence of credit granted solely on the expectation that current robust conditions will continue indefinitely, with little thought as to how borrowers might perform under more stressful conditions," Greenspan told the group. 

Document mmph000020010808dw39009df


 Stock Markets See Modest Rebound, Economic Uncertainty Lingers 

 David Schwab 
823 words
9 March 2000
New Jersey
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 All three of Wall Street's major stock indices rose yesterday. 

 For a change. 

 A day after its worst drop in 18 months, the Dow Jones industrial average crept back, reclaiming 60 of the 374 points it shed on Tuesday, while the Nasdaq composite index and the S&P 500 Index both nudged upward. 

 But there was hardly an outbreak of euphoria. 

 "There's a little bit of nervousness out there," said Kenneth Shea, director of equity research for Standard & Poor's. 

 The Dow gained 60.50 points, or 0.62 percent, finishing at 9,856.53 as some investors went bargain-hunting for big names beaten down in the two previous sessions, with shares of Johnson & Johnson surging 3.6 percent and shares of Merck & Co. back up almost 5 percent. 

 Over at the Nasdaq, which stars some of America's hottest technology companies, shares held their own. 

 It rebounded to finish up 49.33, or 1.02 percent, at 4,897.17, after plunging almost 200 points -- not an easy feat given the steep selloff in blue- chip standbys just the day before, according to some analysts. 

 The Standard & Poor's 500 Index, a broader measure of stocks, rose 11.10, or 0.82 percent, to 1,366.72 

 Tuesday's unexpected profit warning from Procter & Gamble -- which triggered the massive selloff on the Dow -- plus an all-but-certain interest rate hike by the Federal Reserve later this month are now mostly factored into stock prices, analysts say. But there are other developments ahead. 

 In the coming weeks, analysts will watch corporate earnings for more potential disappointments that could signal a further slow down in the economy and that could dull the luster of some high performing stocks. Procter & Gamble, which Tuesday plunged 31 percent, dropped another 5 percent yesterday. 

 Analysts are also wondering what clues the Fed may drop at its March 21 meeting about how much higher interest rates will go. 

 Some are suggesting rates could eventually rise by a whole percentage point or more by year's end before Alan Greenspan will be convinced he has reined in the nation's booming economy. 

 "There is a fear," said A. Michael Lipper, chairman of the mutual fund tracking firm Lipper Inc. in Summit, referring to the possibility that rates could eventually go up by perhaps as much as 2 percentage points. 

 In another indication of an economy on a roll, the Fed's latest survey of the nation's economy reported signs of continued robustness in the New York City metropolitan area. 

 Home building in northern New Jersey was "exceptionally strong," up about 10 percent over a year ago, with shortages of workers looming over the peak spring construction season, according to the Fed's monthly Beige Book report. 

 Labor shortages also are intensifying in the New York region, with salaries up as much as 15 percent in the last year for many college graduates hired through recruiting agencies, according to the Fed report. 

 Mark Vitner, a vice president and economist at First Union Securities Inc. in Charlotte, N.C., called the Fed's report "one of the strongest in recent memory." 

 When it comes to stocks, market analysts are continuing to try to make sense of the conflicting trajectories of the so-called "old economy" stocks, as represented by the Dow, versus the so-called "new economy" firms, the high-growth, high-tech companies that make up the Nasdaq. 

 The Dow is down almost 16 percent from its high on Jan. 14 while the Nasdaq is up 20 percent for the year and heading for its first close over the 5,000 mark. 

 "We are in a period where there is not a lot of useful history or guide points," Lipper said. 

 One potentially positive development from Tuesday's dramatic selloff on the Dow, according to some analysts, was the possibility that it marked the bottom of the downturn. 

 "For a classic bottom to be made in a market, you look for a surge in volume," said Harry Milling, an analyst at Morningstar Inc., an investment research firm in Chicago. 

 This heavy volume often signals that investors who had placed bets the market would continue to decline were being forced to cash in their chips instead of waiting any longer. 

 On Tuesday, some 1.3 billion shares were traded on the New York Stock Exchange, the second-highest in six months, with a similar volume traded yesterday. Trading in the 30 Dow stocks on Tuesday was the highest in six months, Milling said. 

 But some analysts remain skeptical. 

 In a note to clients, Gail Dudack, chief investment strategist at Warburg Dillon Read in New York, said that before yesterday's uptick, the Dow was off to its worst start since 1920, a year in which the Dow slid 33 percent. 

Document krtbn00020010807dw3900ks2


 Wall Street recovers some losses following Tuesday's selloff 

807 words
9 March 2000
The Journal Record
JR
English
 2000(Copyright ) 

 NEW YORK (AP) -- Stocks finished a turbulent session mostly higher Wednesday after the Federal Reserve's latest assessment of the economy reassured investors who were still uneasy following Tuesday's huge selloff. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 60.5 to close at 9,856.53, recovering some of the 374 points it lost Tuesday. The Nasdaq Composite, which had tumbled as much as 125 points in early trading Wednesday, finished up 49.42 at 4,897.26. 

 Broader stock indicators were mostly higher, with the Standard & Poor's 500 up 11.08 at 1,366.7. But declining stocks were ahead of advancers on the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq Stock Market, a sign that investors remained on edge. 

 The market showed signs of stabilizing in the morning and afternoon although the Dow and the Nasdaq changed direction several times while investors, still stunned by Tuesday's profit warning from Procter & Gamble, tried to determine their next moves. The Nasdaq was in negative territory much of the time. 

 But in late afternoon, some of the market's gains solidified after Fed economists released their "beige book" survey of economic conditions. 

 The Fed found that although worker wages are rising, there is little evidence of inflation in the overall economy. 

 The report, which central bankers will consider when they meet March 21 to discuss their interest rate policy, calmed investors' fears that rates are headed sharply higher. 

 The Fed has raised rates four times since last June, and Chairman Alan Greenspan has made no secret of his willingness to raise rates further to slow the economy. 

 Interest rate concerns have undermined industrial and financial stocks for weeks, bringing the Dow down sharply from the closing high of 11,722.98 it set in mid-January. With such an atmosphere of uncertainty, Procter & Gamble's warning Tuesday that higher costs for raw materials would depress its earnings completely unnerved investors; they became convinced that profits would suffer at other companies as well. 

 Procter & Gamble remained out of favor Wednesday, falling 3 to 58 and extending its loss of 25.4375 from Tuesday. 

 Some analysts said investors seemed to believe the blue chips had paid too great a price for Procter & Gamble's warning. 

 "There was no sense to the magnitude of the selloff," said Brian G. Belski, chief investment strategist at George K. Baum & Co. in Kansas City, Mo. "It was an overreaction that has really created some good buying opportunities." 

 On Wednesday, Johnson & Johnson rose 2.5 to 71, and Merck rose 2.875 to 56.8125. Drug stocks outside the Dow were higher, too. Bristol-Myers Squibb soared 4.25 to 47.75. 

 "Some beaten-up sectors of the market are finally getting some attention," said Francis Gannon, senior vice president and portfolio manager at SunAmerica Asset Management in New York. 

 The Nasdaq's performance was mixed as investors continued taking profits from some of the stocks that propelled the index above 5,000 for a brief time on Tuesday. Technology high-flyer JDS Uniphase fell 11.75 to 275.625, and Applied Materials fell 4.75 to 179.375. 

 Buyers stepped in by midafternoon to pick up some high-tech favorites. Oracle rose 8.1875 to 83.125 after announcing that it will join with Wal-Mart and Chevron to launch an online supply exchange for the convenience-store industry. Also, Microsoft rose 2.6875 to 95.5625. 

 "You have to continue to buy the stocks that are leading the market, and for the forseeable future, that means technology," Gannon said. 

 The market was also listening closely Wednesday morning as Greenspan spoke to a banking conference in San Antonio. The Fed chairman warned banks to maintain their lending standards even in the face of strong economic conditions. 

 Greenspan's speech contributed to some nervousness, traders said. While Greenspan did not discuss interest rates or monetary policy, he repeated his concerns about Americans' inflated expectations of the economy. 

 "We have seen growing evidence of credit granted solely on the expectation that current robust conditions will continue indefinitely, with little thought as to how borrowers might perform under more stressful conditions," Greenspan told the group. 

 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 10-to-9 margin on the New York Stock Exchange. On the Nasdaq, five stocks fell for every four that rose. 

 NYSE volume totaled 1.48 billion shares, compared with 1.30 billion in the previous session. 

 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 0.79 to 594.68. 

 Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average fell 0.9 percent. Germany's Xetra DAX index slid 1.0 percent, Britain's FT-SE 100 fell 0.9 percent, and France's CAC-40 closed 1.5 percent lower. 

Document jr00000020010807dw390034f




THE MARKETS: Market Place
 Business/Financial Desk; Section C 
 All Tech All the Time Tells Only One Side of the Story  

 By GRETCHEN MORGENSON  
1,256 words
9 March 2000
The New York Times
NYTF
Page 1, Column 2
English
 c. 2000 New York Times Company  

 Is it still a bull market if it is running on only one leg?  

 That is the question investors are asking today as they ponder a badly bifurcated stock market, where a handful of strong stocks are surrounded by a mass of the weak.  

 While most bull markets are built on strong performance from a wide swath of industries, gains in the current market are being made in technology stocks alone. Procter & Gamble's profit warning on Tuesday only served to cement the view among investors that anything nontech is a nonstarter.  

 Although it is not immediately evident from the behavior of the broad market indexes, most shares are currently trading at bear market levels. While the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index is down about 7 percent for the year, more than three-quarters of the stocks in the index are down 20 percent or more from their recent highs, according to Salomon Smith Barney.  

 Even more surprising is data compiled by James Paulsen, chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis. Mr. Paulsen found that if he excises the 66 technology and telecommunications stocks from the S.& P. index, the 434 companies that remain are currently trading at the same low levels seen during the Russian debt crisis of 1998. With technology and telecommunications back in the index, it is up approximately 40 percent since then.  

 In addition, Mr. Paulsen removed technology stocks from the S.& P. index and found that the price-to-earnings ratio on the median stock in the index currently stood at around 12. That is the same depressed level reached on the entire index during the recession of 1990. With technology stocks included, the index's price-earnings ratio is 43.  

 ''The story here is not just how well tech is doing,'' Mr. Paulsen said. ''The story is equally that most everything else is doing so poorly. I think it would surprise people that outside of technology, the United States' blue chip stock market may break down below the lowest point of the Asian crisis.''  

 This lopsided action in stocks is both unusual and confusing. For example, stocks in many sectors -- banks, consumer durables and basic materials -- are trading at depressed levels that historically have foretold a recession. But the economy is so hot, Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, is threatening to raise interest rates again later this month.  

 Technology stocks, meanwhile, behave as though they are completely immune to the ill effects of rising interest rates, hardly a realistic assessment.  

 Because the strength in technology shares masks the weakness in everything else, the divided stock market also poses problems for Mr. Greenspan. In recent speeches and testimony, the Fed chairman has singled out the wealth effect created by rising portfolio values as an engine driving the currently hot economy. And he has threatened to raise rates as far as he must to cool the economy and the stock market. But so far, his rate increases have only damaged stocks that were already down, not the highfliers he may have hoped to rein in. And that only pushes more investors into the already hot stocks, driving their prices ever higher.  

 ''Greenspan is mistaken about the wealth effect,'' said Stefan D. Abrams, chief investment officer for asset allocation at Trust Company of the West. ''He's missing the bifurcation. While 50 stocks are racing, the other 450 S.& P. stocks are losers. Every time he plays the Cassandra, he has the effect of accelerating the boom in the hot stocks.''  

 In recent weeks, investors have characterized this tale of two stock markets as a divide between the Old Economy stocks, which are hit hard by rising interest rates, and the new, super-charged technology stocks, which are not. But many economists say this view will be proved wrong.  

 ''The problem I see with the tech sector is it ultimately has cyclicality to it,'' said William Dudley, chief United States economist at Goldman, Sachs. ''People may be a little bit too optimistic thinking that tech is insulated from what happens elsewhere in the economy.''  

 Mr. Paulsen agrees. He says that the Fed will succeed in slowing the economy down and that this will bring the bull market in young technology companies to a screeching halt. ''A slower economy would raise the risks inherent in venture capital financing,'' he said. ''It would dry up equity capital flows and kill off these companies' method of financing their operations. I think that is likely over the course of this year.''  

 Today's all-tech all-the-time stock market looks a lot like the 1970's when commodity stocks were the only gainers. What began in the 1960's as an all-inclusive stock market was transformed in the 1970's by inflation. Only those companies, like steel makers and oil producers, that could pass along higher prices to customers, were hot. Everything else faded and ultimately, the entire market did as well.  

 The current situation, while similar in its narrow focus, is driven by disinflation. While the early years of the current bull market rewarded the majority of companies, now only those companies, like technology concerns that are able to produce goods at ever-cheaper prices, are faring well.  

 Now, however, Mr. Paulsen is worried that many companies have reached the zenith of productivity and will no longer be able to reduce prices. This would threaten their power status in the market. ''What I see now are a lot of companies saying we might be reaching the limit of being able to produce more with less,'' he said. ''Price competition is becoming too extreme in many parts of the economy, and more companies are reporting margin problems.''  

 Procter & Gamble is the most recent victim of this, but the market darlings Dell Computer, Wal-Mart Stores and Compaq Computer have also warned about margin pressures recently.  

 Some strategists think the extreme stock market disparities of today will soon ease and that beaten-down stocks will recover. ''My own personal opinion is the disparity between these two areas has gotten awfully wide,'' Mr. Dudley said. A result: investors will find some stocks too cheap to pass up. Companies with depressed stock prices may also take themselves private.  

 What about technology stocks? ''Whenever you have momentum investing it's hard to say when it's going to peter out,'' Mr. Dudley said. ''I don't see anything near term that will puncture that bubble.'' Longer term, however, he doubts that earnings among technology companies can continue to grow at 25 percent or more while the economy is growing at a much slower pace.  

 Mr. Paulsen thinks that if the economy slows, the broader market will rebound. ''Technology would no longer be the big deal,'' he said. ''The inflation scares go away and interest-rate sensitive parts of the stock market will pick up. So will big consumer companies with good unit growth.''  

 Chart: ''A One-Note Market'' When technology and telecommunications stocks are factored out of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, the index is at the same level it was just after the Russian debt crisis in August 1998. Graph shows the S. & P. 500 and the S. & P. 500 (excluding technology and telecommunications stocks) from Sept. 98 to March 2000. (Source: Wells Capital Management)(pg. C15)  

Document nytf000020010809dw3900e88


BUSINESS
STOCKS RISE AFTER FED'S REASSURANCE

Associated Press   
835 words
9 March 2000
Telegraph Herald
DUBQTELH
WISCONSIN
B6
English
Copyright 2000, Woodward Communications Inc. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

NEW YORK (AP) - Stocks finished a turbulent session mostly higher Wednesday after the Federal Reserve's latest assessment of the economy reassured investors who were still uneasy after Tuesday's huge selloff.

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 60.50 to close at 9,856.53, recovering some of the 374 points it lost Tuesday. The Nasdaq composite index, which had tumbled as much as 125 points in early trading Wednesday, finished up 49.33 at 4,897.17.

Broader stock indicators were mostly higher, with the Standard & Poor's 500 up 11.08 at 1,366.70. But declining stocks were ahead of advancers on the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq Stock Market, a sign that investors remained on edge.

The market showed signs of stabilizing in the morning and afternoon although the Dow and the Nasdaq changed direction several times while investors, still stunned by Tuesday's profit warning from Procter & Gamble, tried to determine their next moves. The Nasdaq was in negative territory much of the time.

But in late afternoon, some of the market's gains solidified after Fed economists released their "beige book" survey of economic conditions. The Fed found that although workers' wages are rising, there is little evidence of inflation in the overall economy.

The report, which central bankers will consider when they meet March 21 to discuss their interest rate policy, calmed investors' fears that rates are headed sharply higher. The Fed has raised rates four times since last June, and Chairman Alan Greenspan has made no secret of his willingness to raise rates further to slow the economy.

Interest rate concerns have undermined industrial and financial stocks for weeks, bringing the Dow down sharply from the closing high of 11,722.98 it set in mid-January. With such an atmosphere of uncertainty, Procter & Gamble's warning Tuesday that higher costs for raw materials would depress its earnings completely unnerved investors; they became convinced that profits would suffer at other companies as well.

Procter & Gamble remained out of favor Wednesday, falling 3 5/16 to 57 11/16 and extending its loss of 25 7/16 from Tuesday.

Some analysts said investors seemed to believe the blue chips had paid too great a price for Procter & Gamble's warning.

"There was no sense to the magnitude of the selloff," said Brian G. Belski, chief investment strategist at George K. Baum & Co. in Kansas City, Mo. "It was an overreaction that has really created some good buying opportunities."

On Wednesday, Johnson & Johnson rose 2 11/16 to 71 3/16, and Merck rose 2 7/8 to 56 13/16. Drug stocks outside the Dow were higher, too. Bristol-Myers Squibb soared 4 1/4 to 47 3/4.

"Some beaten-up sectors of the market are finally getting some attention," said Francis Gannon, senior vice president and portfolio manager at SunAmerica Asset Management in New York.

The Nasdaq's performance was mixed as investors continued taking profits from some of the stocks that propelled the index above 5,000 for a brief time on Tuesday. Technology high-flyer JDS Uniphase fell 11 3/8 to 275 5/8, and Applied Materials fell 4 3/4 to 179 3/8.

Buyers stepped in by midafternoon to pick up some high-tech favorites. Oracle rose 8 3/16 to 83 1/8 after announcing that it will join with Wal-Mart and Chevron Corp. to launch an online supply exchange for the convenience-store industry. Also, Microsoft rose 2 11/16 to 95 9/16.

"You have to continue to buy the stocks that are leading the market, and for the forseeable future, that means technology," Gannon said.

The market was also listening closely Wednesday morning as Greenspan spoke to a banking conference in San Antonio, Texas. The Fed chairman warned banks to maintain their lending standards even in the face of strong economic conditions.

Greenspan's speech contributed to some nervousness, traders said. While Greenspan did not discuss interest rates or monetary policy, he repeated his concerns about Americans' inflated expectations of the economy.

"We have seen growing evidence of credit granted solely on the expectation that current robust conditions will continue indefinitely, with little thought as to how borrowers might perform under more stressful conditions," Greenspan told the group.

Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 10-to-9 margin on the New York Stock Exchange. On the Nasdaq, five stocks fell for every four that rose.

NYSE volume totaled 1.19 billion shares as of 4 p.m., compared with 1.30 billion in the previous session.

The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 0.79 to 594.68.

Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average fell 0.9 percent. Germany's Xetra DAX index slid 1.0 percent, Britain's FT-SE 100 fell 0.9 percent, and France's CAC-40 closed 1.5 percent lower.

Document DUBQTELH20140821dw3900u8i




 Featured Articles From S&P Personal Wealth 

479 words
9 March 2000
15:15
PR Newswire
PRN
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, PR Newswire) 


NEW YORK, March 9 /PRNewswire/ -- Read the following articles exclusively at
S&P Personal Wealth (http://www.personalwealth.com).  Standard & Poor's is a
division of the McGraw-Hill Companies:
   "S&P Index Changes -- Who's In, Who's Out"
   http://www.personalwealth.com/story/doc.html?id=2601167
   Standard & Poor's will replace Service Corp. International (NYSE: SRV) in
   the S&P 500 Index with Sabre Group Holdings (NYSE: TSG) after the close
   of trading on Wednesday, March 15. S&P 500 component AMR Corp.
   (NYSE: AMR) is spinning off its 83% interest in TSG to AMR shareholders.
   Sabre Group, a holding company that engages in the electronic
   distribution of travel through its proprietary computer reservation
   system, will be added to the S&P 500 Services (Computer Systems) industry
   group.



   "Uncertainty Apparent for Dow"
   http://www.personalwealth.com/story/doc.html?id=2600726
   S&P Market Analyst Paul Cherney says the shock of the Procter & Gamble
   (NYSE: PG) profit warning is still fresh in the minds of investors, and
   there may be concerns about how many other companies can produce the same
   kind of warning.  He thinks the S&P 500 and the DJIA may try to struggle
   higher in Thursday's session, but convincing followthrough is doubtful at
   this time.  Cherney says the Nasdaq lives in its own world -- the line of
   least resistance must still be considered higher until we get a close
   above the 5,000 level.
   "S&P Still Neutral on Airline Stocks"
   http://www.personalwealth.com/story/doc.html?id=2603638
   Standard & Poor's is maintaining its neutral stance toward shares of
   airline companies, which rose sharply on Wednesday as the price of crude
   oil slid $3.00 a barrel, or 10%.  Analyst Steve Klein says lower fuel
   costs usually trigger investor interest in airline equities, but the
   current rally doesn't appear sustainable.  He believes that profit
   estimates for airlines will continue to erode over the next six months
   because analysts' models remain too optimistic on fuel cost assumptions.



S&P Personal Wealth (http://www.personalwealth.com) is the award winning
service created specifically for individual investors by Standard & Poor's.
Investment management features include personalized portfolio recommendations;
buy, sell, and hold alerts; free real-time quotes, live market commentary; and
in-depth analysis and research on companies and funds from hundreds of
Standard and Poor's analysts worldwide. S&P Personal Wealth, recently
described as "...easily the best one-stop shopping site for investors.." by
Money.com, can also be reached through leading on-line service partners such
as AOL, Netscape, Lycos, Quicken / Excite, ABCNEWS.com, and Mindspring.


Document prn0000020010812dw3900xfr




BUSINESS
FED REPORT GIVES BOOST TO MARKET 

EILEEN GLANTON, THE ASSOCIATED PRESS 
506 words
9 March 2000
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
PPGZ
SOONER
F-3
English
© 2000 Post Gazette Publishing Company.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.  All rights reserved.  

Stocks finished a turbulent session mostly higher yesterday after the Federal Reserve's latest assessment of the economy reassured investors who were still uneasy following Tuesday's huge sell-off. 

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 60.50 to close at 9,856.53, recovering some of the 374 points it lost Tuesday. The Nasdaq composite index, which had tumbled as much as 125 points in early trading yesterday, finished up 49.33 at 4,897.17. 

Broader stock indicators were mostly higher, with the Standard & Poor's 500 up 11.08 at 1,366.70. But declining stocks were ahead of advancers on the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq Stock Market, a sign that investors remained on edge. 

The market showed signs of stabilizing in the morning and afternoon although the Dow and the Nasdaq changed direction several times while investors, still stunned by Tuesday's profit warning from Procter &Gamble, tried to determine their next moves. 

But in late afternoon, some of the market's gains solidified after Fed economists released their "beige book" survey of economic conditions. The Fed found that although workers' wages are rising, there is little evidence of inflation in the overall economy. 

Procter &Gamble remained out of favor yesterday, falling 3 5/16 to 57 11/16 and extending its loss of 25 7/16 from Tuesday. 

Some analysts said investors seemed to believe the blue chips had paid too great a price for Procter &Gamble's warning. 

"There was no sense to the magnitude of the sell-off," said Brian G. Belski, chief investment strategist at George K. Baum &Co. in Kansas City, Mo. "It was an overreaction that has really created some buying opportunities." 

Johnson &Johnson rose 2 11/16 to 71 3/16, and Merck rose 2 7/8 to 56 13/16. Drug stocks outside the Dow were higher, too. Bristol- Myers Squibb soared 4 1/4 to 47 3/4. 

The Nasdaq's performance was mixed as investors continued taking profits from some of the stocks that propelled the index above 5,000 for a brief time Tuesday. Technology high-flyer JDS Uniphase fell 11 3/8 to 275 5/8, and Applied Materials fell 4 3/4 to 179 3/8. 

Oracle rose 8 3/16 to 83 1/8 after announcing that it will join with Wal-Mart and Chevron Corp. to launch an online supply exchange for the convenience-store industry. Also, Microsoft rose 2 11/16 to 95 9/16. 

The stock prices are as of 5 p.m. 

Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 10-to-9 margin on the New York Stock Exchange. On the Nasdaq, five stocks fell for every four that rose. 

NYSE volume totaled 1.19 billion shares as of 4 p.m., compared with 1.30 billion in the previous session. 

The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 0.79 to 594.68.  

Document ppgz000020010812dw3900cp8




BUSINESS
STOCKS RECOVER SOME LOSSES, BUT INVESTORS STILL ON EDGE A REASSURING REPORT ON INFLATION FROM THE FEDERAL RESERVE SOLIDIFIES PART OF THE GAIN IN THE MARKET 

EILEEN GLANTON  The Associated Press 
599 words
9 March 2000
The Oregonian
POR
English
© 2000 Oregonian Publishing Company.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.  All rights reserved.  

Stocks finished a turbulent session mostly higher Wednesday after the Federal Reserve's latest assessment of the economy reassured investors who were still uneasy after Tuesday's huge sell-off. 

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 60.50 points to 9,856.53, recovering some of the 374 points it lost Tuesday. The Nasdaq composite index, which had tumbled as much as 125 points in early trading Wednesday, finished up 49.42 at 4,897.26. 

Broader stock indicators were mostly higher, with the Standard & Poor's 500 up 11.08 at 1,366.70. But declining stocks were ahead of advancers on the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq composite index, a sign that investors remained on edge. 

The market showed signs of stabilizing in the morning and afternoon, although the Dow and the Nasdaq changed direction several times while investors, still stunned by Tuesday's profit warning from Procter &Gamble, tried to determine their next moves. The Nasdaq was in negative territory much of the time. 

But in the late afternoon, some of the market's gains solidified after Fed economists released their "beige book" survey of economic conditions. The Fed found that although workers' wages are rising, there is little evidence of inflation in the overall economy. 

The report, which central bankers will consider when they meet March 21 to discuss their interest rate policy, calmed investors' fears that rates are headed sharply higher. The Fed has raised rates four times since June, and Chairman Alan Greenspan has made no secret of his willingness to raise rates further to slow the economy. 

With such an atmosphere of uncertainty, Procter &Gamble's warning Tuesday that higher costs for raw materials would depress its earnings completely unnerved investors; they became convinced that profits would suffer at other companies as well. 

Procter &Gamble remained out of favor Wednesday, falling $3 to $58 and extending its loss of $25.4375 from Tuesday. 

Some analysts said investors seemed to think the blue chips had paid too great a price for Procter &Gamble's warning. 

"There was no sense to the magnitude of the sell-off," said Brian G. Belski, chief investment strategist at George K. Baum &Co. in Kansas City, Mo. 

On Wednesday, Johnson &Johnson rose $2.50 to $71, and Merck rose $2.875 to $56.8125. Drug stocks outside the Dow were higher, too. Bristol-Myers Squibb soared $4.25 to $47.75. 

The Nasdaq's performance was mixed as investors continued taking profits from some of the stocks that propelled the index above 5,000 for a brief time Tuesday. Technology high-flier JDS Uniphase fell $11.75 to $275.625, and Applied Materials fell $4.75 to $179.375. 

Buyers stepped in by mid-afternoon to pick up some high-tech favorites. Oracle rose $8.1875 to $83.125 after announcing it would join with Wal-Mart and Chevron to launch an online supply exchange for the convenience-store industry. Also, Microsoft rose $2.6875 to $95.5625. 

Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 10-9 ratio on the New York Stock Exchange. On the Nasdaq, five stocks fell for every four that rose. NYSE volume totaled 1.48 billion shares, compared with 1.30 billion in the previous session. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 0.79 to 594.68.  

Caption: Graphic - Market Action 

Document por0000020010812dw3900ff3


BUSINESS
BUSINESS UPDATE

419 words
9 March 2000
Peoria Journal Star
PRJS
ALL
A09
English
Copyright 2000, Peoria Journal Star. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

Stocks finish higher in turbulent trading

NEW YORK - Stocks finished a turbulent session mostly higher Wednesday after the Federal Reserve's latest assessment of the economy reassured investors who were still uneasy following Tuesday's huge sell-off.

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 60.50 to close at 9,856.53, recovering some of the 374 points it lost Tuesday. The Nasdaq composite index, which had tumbled as much as 125 points in early trading Wednesday, finished up 49.42 at 4,897.26.

Broader stock indicators were mostly higher, with the Standard & Poor's 500 up 11.08 at 1,366.70. But declining stocks were ahead of advancers on the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq Stock Market, a sign that investors remained on edge.

The market showed signs of stabilizing in the morning and afternoon although the Dow and the Nasdaq changed direction several times while investors, still stunned by Tuesday's profit warning from Procter & Gamble, tried to determine their next moves. The Nasdaq was in negative territory much of the time.

But in late afternoon, some of the market's gains solidified after Fed economists released their ''beige book'' survey of economic conditions. The Fed found that although workers' wages are rising, there is little evidence of inflation in the overall economy.

The report, which central bankers will consider when they meet March 21 to discuss their interest rate policy, calmed investors' fears that rates are headed sharply higher. Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 10-to-9 margin on the New York Stock Exchange. On the Nasdaq, five stocks fell for every four that rose.

NYSE volume totaled 1.48 billion shares, compared with 1.30 billion in the previous session.

The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 0.79 to 594.68.

-- Gerber to battle Johnson & Johnson

NEW YORK - The two most recognized names in baby care Gerber and Johnson & Johnson- are going head to head for the first time.

Gerber Products Co. on Thursday is launching a line of powders, oils and other toiletries for infants and toddlers, a move that pits the king of baby food against baby care giant Johnson & Johnson.

In all, Summit, N.J.-based Gerber has developed 14 new baby products, including shampoos, diaper rash ointment and vitamin drops. The most unique items in Gerber's new assortment are an applebanana flavored tooth and gum cleaner and a lavenderscented baby wash.

-- Journal Star news services

Document PRJS000020100607dw3901rh6




Abreast of the Market
 Blue-Chip Stocks Rise On Fed Economic Data --- Survey Shows Little Evidence of Inflation --- Industrial Average Recovers Some Losses After Sell-Off   

 Associated Press   
515 words
9 March 2000
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
18
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

 NEW YORK -- Stocks moved higher after the U.S. Federal Reserve's latest report on the economy reassured nervous investors following Tuesday's huge sell-off.   

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 60.50 points to 9856.53, recovering some of the 374 points it lost Tuesday.   

 Late afternoon in New York, the Nasdaq Composite Index, which had tumbled as much as 125 points in early trading, was up 31.54 at 4879.38. The Russell 2000 Index of smaller companies fell 8.76 points to 586.71.   

 Broader stock indicators were also higher. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 16.27 points at 1371.89.   

 Stocks rose after U.S. Federal Reserve economists released the "beige book" survey of economic conditions, which indicated that while workers' wages are rising, there is little evidence of inflation in the overall economy.   

 The report, which central bankers will consider when they meet March 21 to discuss their interest-rate policy, calmed investors' fears that rates are headed sharply higher. The Fed has raised rates four times since last June.   

 The Fed's report stabilized what had been a turbulent market in the wake of Tuesday's steep sell-off, when the Dow Jones industrials fell 374 points.   

 Procter & Gamble, the catalyst for Tuesday's sell-off, remained out of favor, dropping 2 13/16 to 57 9/16.   

 The company's profit warning hung over the market Wednesday as investors worried that other companies' earnings would suffer as well. But some analysts said investors appeared to believe that blue-chip stocks had paid too great a price for Procter & Gamble's warning.   

 "There was no sense to the magnitude of the sell-off," said Brian G. Belski, chief investment strategist at George K. Baum & Co. "It was an overreaction that has really created some good buying opportunities."   

 Johnson & Johnson led the industrial average higher, rising 3 7/8 to 71 1/4. Merck rose 3 9/16 to 57 5/16. Drug stocks outside the Dow Jones industrials were higher, too.   

 The Nasdaq's gains were more modest as investors continued taking profits from the recent rise in technology stocks. JDS Uniphase fell 13 3/8 to 273 and Applied Materials was down 3 47/64 to 180 25/64. But buyers stepped in to pick up some high-tech favorites. Oracle rose 6 3/4 to 81 11/16.   

 The Fed's beige book wasn't the only news from the central bank on Wednesday. In the morning, Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan warned banks to maintain their lending standards even in the face of strong economic conditions.   

 Mr. Greenspan's speech to the Independent Community Bankers of America in San Antonio, Texas, contributed to some nervousness, traders said. While Mr. Greenspan didn't discuss interest rates or monetary policy, he repeated his concerns about Americans' inflated expectations of the economy.   

Document wsje000020010814dw390043r




BUSINESS
FED'S BEIGE BOOK' REPORT CALMS INTEREST-RATE FEARS 

ASSOCIATED PRESS 
470 words
9 March 2000
The Plain Dealer
CLEV
FINAL / ALL
3C
English
© 2000 The Plain Dealer.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.  All rights reserved.  

Stocks finished a turbulent session mostly higher yesterday after the Federal Reserve's latest assessment of the economy reassured investors who were still uneasy following Tuesday's huge sell-off. 

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 60.50 to close at 9,856.53, recovering some of the 374 points it lost Tuesday. The NASDAQ composite index, which had tumbled as much as 125 points in early trading yesterday, finished up 49.33 at 4,897.17. 

Broader stock indicators were mostly higher, with the Standard & Poor's 500 up 11.08 at 1,366.70. But declining stocks were ahead of advancers on the New York Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ Stock Market, a sign that investors remained on edge. 

The market showed signs of stabilizing in the morning and early afternoon, although the Dow and the NASDAQ changed direction several times while investors, still stunned by Tuesday's profit warning from Procter &Gamble, tried to determine their next moves. The NASDAQ was in negative territory much of the time. 

But in late afternoon, some of the market's gains solidified after Fed economists released their "beige book" survey of economic conditions. The Fed found that although workers' wages are rising, there is little evidence of inflation in the overall economy. 

The report, which central bankers will consider when they meet March 21 to discuss their interest rate policy, calmed investors' fears that rates are headed sharply higher. The Fed has raised rates four times since last June, and Chairman Alan Greenspan has made no secret of his willingness to raise rates further to slow the economy. 

Interest rate concerns have undermined industrial and financial stocks for weeks, bringing the Dow down sharply from the closing high of 11,722.98 it set in mid-January. With such an atmosphere of uncertainty, Procter &Gamble's warning Tuesday that higher costs for raw materials would depress its earnings completely unnerved investors; they became convinced that profits would suffer at other companies as well. 

Declining issues outnumbered advancers yesterday by a 10-to-9 margin on the New York Stock Exchange. On the NASDAQ, five stocks fell for every four that rose. 

NYSE volume totaled 1.19 billion shares as of 4 p.m., compared with 1.30 billion in the previous session. 

The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 0.79 to 594.68. 

Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average fell 0.9 percent. Germany's Xetra DAX index slid 1.0 percent; Britain's FT-SE 100 fell 0.9 percent, and France's CAC-40 closed 1.5 percent lower. 

Procter &Gamble remained out of favor, falling $3.31 to $57.69 and extending its loss of $25.44 from Tuesday.  

Document clev000020010804dw390083q


 Business 
 Your Money 

 Christine Romans,  David Haffenreffer, Deborah Marchini 
962 words
9 March 2000
10:00
CNNfn: Business Day
BZZD
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 DEBORAH MARCHINI, CNN ANCHOR:  The market`s volatility in recent days has befuddled not only many investors but some Wall Street pros as well. 

 Christine Romans has been gauging the mood on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. 

 And Christine, I`m glad to know that they`re scratching their heads there while I`m doing it here.  What`s going on? 

 CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  They really are.  It`s so interesting, one trader yesterday came up to me and he said:  You know, I`ve been doing this for 30 years and I just don`t know what is happening, I`ve never seen anything like this.  He said there`s a real interesting switch going on among investor sentiment, you know, toward the techs. We`ve been talking about this ad nauseum, toward the technology sector, away from the blue chips. 

 But, you know, what you do you do at this point, you know, when you have the Dow down 374 points one day and then it has a tentative little rally the next day.  Where do we stand?  Another analyst says, you know, investors now have white knuckles.  And that`s exactly sort of the feeling that I get on the trading floor. 

 You can see that the Dow, over the past year, is up just a scant 1.32 percent.  You take a look at that market action and you can see that we`ve had a couple of major pullbacks, two full-term corrections, actually, in just over six months.  So it`s a little -- it`s a little bit troubling for some of these bulls who want to see the blue chips do a little bit better. 

 Now one analyst told me that investors are disgusted with the sluggish old-line stocks and they`re diving into the techs, just looking for any kind of return that they can get. 

 Another interesting comment from a trader I was talking to yesterday, he said the Nasdaq is a utopia.  And he said, when you talk about the old line stocks and how they`re sluggish, you have to remember that utopia is unattainable and that it`s going to take just a profit warning or some big analyst saying that he is taking some money off the table in techs, or it`s going to take Internet taxation, or they`re starting to talk about that, or it`s going to take some sort of profit shortfall or profit warning, and you`re going to see, you know, the rug pulled out from underneath the tech sector. 

 MARCHINI:  Do I hear a little sour grapes there? 

 ROMANS:  Maybe.  Maybe, but you have to remember, these are people who personally are invested in the tech sector, you know, these guys who trade on the trading floor and women, their specialists, and they trade New York Stock Exchange stocks, but they all have their own personal portfolios too, and they all on their trading screens have little, you know, Nasdaq stocks that they watch as well.  So they are, actually, I find it a very sort of interesting blend of opinions there. 

 MARCHINI:  It`s nice to know they are frustrated, but I kind of wonder why.  Aren`t they making money with all the trading volume and the volatility? 

 ROMANS:  Oh, sure, sure, and that`s you know, one reason why people keep casting an eye toward those brokerage stocks, because brokers, whether the market goes up or down, when you have volume, and we are over a billion shares at the New York Stock Exchange, and consistently like that over at the Nasdaq, you know, you are seeing some major, some major money changing hands, and lots of trade is probably good news for the brokerage stocks. 

 But it`s really interesting, people keep talking about the Dow and the Nasdaq crossing that -- the trader I was just telling you about who says that the Nasdaq could get the rug pulled out from under it.  He says that if the Dow and the Nasdaq cross, we`ll have to have it at 2000 because he says that the Nasdaq, half of its fluff, and half of the pullback in the Dow, that`s just fear.  And he said that when the market gets back in alignment that will be obvious to other people. 

 MARCHINI:  Give a new definition to the word volatility. 

 ROMANS:  Yes. 

 MARCHINI:  OK, thanks a lot, Christine, for unsettling my stomach this morning. 

 ROMANS:  Sorry, Deb. 

 MARCHINI: That is all right. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc.  ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by eMediaMillWorks, Inc.  (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.)  No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document bzzd000020010804dw39000zf




Abreast of the Market
 U.S. Equities Stage Recovery On Fed Data   

Associated Press News Service
575 words
9 March 2000
The Asian Wall Street Journal
AWSJ
23
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

 NEW YORK -- Stocks moved higher after the U.S. Federal Reserve's latest report on the economy reassured nervous investors following Tuesday's huge sell-off.   

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 60.50 points to 9856.53, recovering some of the 374 points it lost Tuesday.   

 The Nasdaq Composite Index, which had tumbled as much as 125 points in early trading, closed 49.33 points higher.   

 Broader stock indicators were also higher. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed up 11.10 points.   

 Stocks rose after U.S. Federal Reserve economists released the "beige book" survey of economic conditions, which indicated that while workers' wages are rising, there is little evidence of inflation in the overall economy.   

 The report, which central bankers will consider when they meet March 21 to discuss their interest-rate policy, calmed investors' fears that rates are headed sharply higher. The Fed has raised rates four times since last June.   

 The Fed's report stabilized what had been a turbulent market in the wake of Tuesday's steep sell-off, when the Dow Jones industrials fell 374 points.   

 Procter & Gamble, the catalyst for Tuesday's sell-off, remained out of favor, dropping 2 13/16 to 57 9/16 in late trading.   

 The company's profit warning hung over the market Wednesday as investors worried that other companies' earnings would suffer as well. But some analysts said investors appeared to believe that blue-chip stocks had paid too great a price for Procter & Gamble's warning.   

 "There was no sense to the magnitude of the sell-off," said Brian G. Belski, chief investment strategist at George K. Baum & Co. "It was an overreaction that has really created some good buying opportunities."   

 Johnson & Johnson led the industrial average higher, rising 3 7/8 to 71 1/4 in late trading. Merck rose 3 9/16 to 57 5/16. Drug stocks outside the Dow Jones industrials were higher, too. Bristol Myers Squibb soared 5 7/16 to 48 7/16.   

 The Nasdaq's gains were more modest as investors continued taking profits from the recent rise in technology stocks. JDS Uniphase fell 13 3/8 to 273 in late trading and Applied Materials was down 3 47/64 to 180 25/64.   

 But buyers stepped in to pick up some high-tech favorites. Oracle was 6 3/4 higher at 81 11/16 in late trading.   

 The Fed's beige book wasn't the only news from the central bank on Wednes-day. In the morning, Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan warned banks to maintain their lending standards even in the face of strong economic conditions.   

 Mr. Greenspan's speech to the Independent Community Bankers of America in San Antonio, Texas, contributed to some nervousness, traders said. While Mr. Greenspan didn't discuss interest rates or monetary policy, he repeated his concerns about Americans' inflated expectations of the economy.   

 "We have seen growing evidence of credit granted solely on the expectation that current robust conditions will continue indefinitely, with little thought as to how borrowers might perform under more stressful conditions," Mr. Green-span told the group.   

 In late afternoon trading, declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 5-to-4 margin on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume came to 978.6 million shares, behind Tuesday's torrid pace.   

Document awsj000020010803dw39002uj




Business and Finance
 What's News 
 Business and Finance 

659 words
8 March 2000
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
1
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Deutsche Bank and Dresdner Bank expect to announce a 30.8 billion euros merger on Thursday, a deal that would take the German financial services sector a long way in catching up with its European neighbors in consolidation activity. 

 --- 

 Procter & Gamble's profit warning stunned investors, sending its shares down and dragging the rest of the market with it. The consumer-products company is still reeling from a plan, which it quickly abandoned, to become a pharmaceuticals powerhouse by acquiring Warner-Lambert and American Home Products. 

 U.S. blue-chip shares fell 3.7% on a profit warning from Procter & Gamble. The industrial average fell 374.47 points to 9796.03. The Russell 2000 index of small stocks fell 1%, or 6.20 points, to 595.44. 

 --- 

 Rio Tinto faces a global proxy fight from several leading labor groups. The unions seek to improve labor practices and install a new deputy chairman at the mining giant. 

 --- 

 DaimlerChrysler is talking with Mitsubishi Motors about an alliance that could create the world's third-largest auto maker and give the German-U.S. company a needed foothold in Asia. 

 --- 

 VeriSign agreed to buy Network Solutions, the longtime source of Internet domain names, for stock valued at 17.89 billion euros. 

 --- 

 UniCredito Italiano is bidding for several banks in Eastern Europe, as the Italian group proceeds with plans to expand abroad despite its recent failure to close a deal with Spain's BBVA. 

 --- 

 Ahold wants to buy U.S. Foodservice in a deal valued at $2.68 billion, in an attempt to expand its presence in the U.S. The Dutch retailer already has large holdings on the U.S. East Coast. 

 --- 

 Cambridge Antibody shares surged 22% after the company unveiled plans to raise 164.2 million euros in a share offering. Transgene, meanwhile, announced plans to raise about 175 million euros. 

 --- 

 BAT reported an 86% rise in pretax profit, as the effects of its 1998 acquisition of rival Rothmans were felt. But the cigarette maker warned that stiff challenges remain ahead. 

 --- 

 Fitch IBCA agrees to buy Duff & Phelps for $528 million, as part of a strategy to create a global alternative to the major U.S. rating agencies, Moody's Investors Service Inc. and McGraw-Hill Co.'s unit Standard & Poor's Corp. 

 --- 

 Productivity in the U.S. grew late last year at its highest rate since 1992, sparking lower labor costs and suggesting that inflationary pressure remains muted. 

 --- 

 Cordiant is expected to unveil an independent digital advertising agency in an effort to attract top creative talent that is flocking to Internet companies. 

 --- 

 Poland is expected to knock two bidders from the tender for Telekomunikacja Polska, leaving France Telecom and Telecom Italia as finalists in the race for a stake in the state telephone company, people close to the government said. 

 --- 

 Cap Gemimi will today announce a joint venture with Cisco Systems, to offer services to telecommunications cariers and corporate clients. 

 --- 

 A U.S. House Panel has found nothing improper about SEC Chairman Arthur Levitt holding private meetings with brokerage firms to discuss market issues. 

 --- 

 Gold prices have hit a plateau despite bullish factors abounding. Many analysts see this as evidence that the precious metal's role as a refuge from inflation has weakened further. 

 --- 

 The dollar rose against the euro while declining against the yen. Late Tuesday, the euro was trading at 95.70 U.S. cents, down from 95.94 U.S. cents late Monday in New York. 

 --- 

 Shorter-term U.S. Treasurys rose after the government said it will buy back $1 billion of issues on Thursday. However, the 30-year bond fell. 

 --- 

 European shares fell with telecommuncations and auto stocks leading the decline, answering the tumble on Wall Street. 

 --- 

 Poland and the Bank of Scotland launched sizable Eurobond issues. European government bonds closed higher following the steep drop in the Dow Jones Industrial Average. 

Document wsje000020010814dw38003ui




US warnings and Net sell-off hit blue chips - Stock Market.

By Nick Hasell. 
914 words
8 March 2000
The Times
T
32
English
© 2000 Times Newspapers Ltd. All rights reserved 

A FLURRY of profit warnings from the US and a sell-off in UK Internet service providers sent leading London shares sharply back from their seven-week high, with the FTSE 100 coming to rest just shy of its intra-day low.

The session started in downbeat fashion as dealers digested news that NTL, the US cable group, would offer free unmetered access to the Internet to UK subscribers. The immediate casualty was BT, which is mulling over plans to spin off its Internet operations, off a hefty 118p to #11.70. But the NTL decision also meant further weakness for Freeserve, still reeling from Monday's news of a similar giveaway by AltaVista, the US search engine. Shares in the Dixons-controlled Internet service - whose promotion to the FTSE 100 will be confirmed today - fell 167 1/4p to 712 1/2p. Dixons itself tracked that decline, and settled 254p down at #12.31, the single worst performance in the blue chip index. The electrical retailer asked for its shares to be suspended at the close, pending shareholders' approval of its new capital structure.

Among utilities, Monday's profit warning from Edison International - in which the US energy firm said falling electricity prices and slack demand in the UK meant it will miss current-year earnings targets - continued to reverberate among UK generators.

PowerGen, from whom Edison last year bought the Fiddler's Ferry and Ferrybridge power stations, came off worse, sliding 62p to 367 3/4p, while National Power retreated 26p to 328 1/2p. That selling also took in ScottishPower, down 23 1/2p to 450 1/2p, and Scottish & Southern Energy, 22p cheaper at 500p, while British Energy continued to suffer from Monday's statement on volume and price shortfalls. Shares in the second-liner fell 27 1/2p to 212 3/4p, with cuts in profit estimates from Goldman Sachs adding to the gloom.

Investors had to face more bad news from the US, as Procter & Gamble marked the start of trading on Wall Street by noting that its third-quarter numbers will come in below expectations. That sent its stock crashing and the Dow Jones industrial average firmly below the 10,000 level. That piled the pressure on UK consumer goods blue chips, in particular P&G's arch-rival Unilever, 33 1/2p lower at 347 1/4p. Reckitt Benckiser, whose product portfolio overlaps with Unilever, lost 44p to 472p.

The combined effect of that selling was a 101.3 decline in the FTSE 100, which finished at 6,466.5. Mid-caps could not escape the squeeze, and the FTSE 250 gave up 49.6 points to 6,789.3 from Monday's record close.

Of blue chips on the rise, Energis, up 94p to #35.40, and National Grid, its 47-per cent shareholder, benefited from a buy note from Credit Suisse First Boston. A rally in crude also provided a counterweight to the index: BP Amoco put on 12p to 510 1/2p, with Shell up 18 3/4p to 462 3/4p.

But while Nycomed Amersham prepared to mark its elevation to the FTSE 100, Ronald Long, an executive director of the medical equipment group, chose to sell 65,000 shares - or more than a third of his personal holding - at 645p. The shares, which were trading at 350p at the end of last year, finished 30 3/4p dearer at 732p.

Among biotechs, Oxford Asymmetry gave up 32 1/2p to 530p from Monday's 12 month high after Credit Suisse First Boston turned seller. The broker reckons the group is overvalued relative to its peers, and has set a 315p target.

At the bottom end of the market, industry talk suggests that Paramount, the pub company based in Chester, flat at 24 1/2p, may be looking to take itself private. The company, whose shares peaked at 42p last year, is thought to have grown frustrated by the restrictions of a full listing - especially after its attempt to secure a management contract for 285 former Wolverhampton & Dudley pubs was effectively stymied by disclosure requirements.

The two latest dot-com additions to the junior market met with a mixed reception. Tornado Group, which specialises in digitally downloading music from the Internet, came off best, with the stock settling at 300p after a 150p placing by Wise Speke. Dealings in e-district.net, an interactive family entertainment channel, were more subdued. The shares - placed by WestLB Panmure - finished unchanged at 200p.

Of AIM stalwarts, BGR added 12p to 436p on publication of its full-year figures and plans for the demerger of its IT arm.

GILT-EDGED: UK government bonds drew strength from US Treasuries, which advanced strongly on switching by investors out of a heavily sold US equity market. In the futures market, the June gilt future put on 26p to #113.09 on trading in 26,000 contracts. Among conventional cash issues, Treasury 5 per cent 2004 ticked up 4p to #96.30, with Treasury 8 per cent 2021 up 44p to #146.50.

NEW YORK: The Dow Jones industrial average tumbled as Wall Street was rattled by a jump in crude oil prices and a profit warning from Procter & Gamble. The average ended down 374.47 points at 9,796.03.

(c) Times Newspapers Ltd, 2000.

Not Available for Re-dissemination. 

Document t000000020010818dw3800d07


 Business 
 IN THE MONEY 

 Bill Tucker, Terry Keenan, Daryn Kagan 
9,138 words
8 March 2000
16:00
CNNfn: In The Money
ITHM
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 TERRY KEENAN, CNN ANCHOR:  Letting the blue chips fall where they may. Why investors are avoiding the dowdy stocks of the Dow. 

 BILL TUCKER, CNN ANCHOR:  March madness at the Nasdaq.  Will tech stocks resume their course toward 5K?  We`ll talk to a top tech fund manager. 

 KEENAN:  Oil prices pumped up.  Which stocks are going along for the ride? 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 SEN. JOHN MCCAIN (R-AZ), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:  Our crusade continues tonight, tomorrow, the next day, the day after that, and for as long as it takes to restore America`s confidence and pride in the practice and institutions of our great democracy. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 TUCKER:  John McCain reassures supporters as the polls close on Super Tuesday, but the question remains:  How much longer for his campaign? 

 ANNOUNCER:  From CNN and CNNfn, this is IN THE MONEY with Bill Tucker, Terry Keenan and Daryn Kagan. 

 TUCKER:  Hello, everyone, and welcome to IN THE MONEY.  I`m Bill Tucker. 

 KEENAN:  And I`m Terry Keenan.  Daryn Kagan is on assignment today. 

 As for our assignment today, trying to make sense out of this crazy market after the Dow suffered its worst back-to-back decline since the Asian financial crisis. 

 TUCKER:  The Dow is now off more than 600 points this week, as investors continue to stay out with the old and in with the new.  That was true, up until a few minutes ago, when we started seeing a big selloff in the Nasdaq.  We have a team of experts on board this hour to help you with your investment decisions.      We are also going to be turning our attention to oil.  With prices at 9-year highs, could oil stocks be the way to pump up your portfolio? 

 First, let`s take a look at what is going on in the markets at this hour.  And we have no bounce for either the Dow or the Nasdaq, although we did open in positive territory, right now the Dow down about 33 points, and we are seeing a little strength in those drug stocks, but selling in the financials, American Express is off more than four. 

 TUCKER:  It is strength worth noting too because J&J, Pfizer, Warner-Lambert, all of them, are moving higher, at this hour, and it is the only group that had been able to find some consistent movement up against the trend of the market.  It is lifting the Dow off its lows, a little bit of the session. 

 Real story this morning is over in the Nasdaq.  Technology stocks, which held up very well under the sell-off yesterday, closed only down 50 points.  Remember, we had about a 374 point sell-off in the Dow.  So, the Nasdaq considered resilient yesterday, opened higher, and has turned sharply lower.  You see the numbers there, down 106 points, 4741 is the level we find ourselves at at the moment. 

 KEENAN:  Let`s take a look at what`s going on in bond market. That hasn`t been too much of an influence of late, on stocks, and once again a similar situation, today.  We have a mixed performance for the bond and this really having little impact on stocks. 

 TUCKER:  The 10-year note continues to hang at 6.37, within a range that we have been seeing it recently.  Remember, we are using the 10-year note as a benchmark for interest rates, and we do have some stability in the bond market, at least. 

 KEENAN:  We`ll take that. 

 TUCKER:  An avalanche in blue chips was a rude awakening for many investors yesterday, who thought those stocks were immune to the level of volatility that we usually see over on that other market, the one with all the dot.coms.  So how is the individual investor supposed to play this market? 

 KEENAN:  Well, Robert Stovall, the market strategist with Prudential Securities, he has seen a lot of ups and downs over the years. 

 And Bob, let me ask you first, have you ever seen a market like this with such incredible divergence? 

 ROBERT STOVALL, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES:  I haven`t, Terry, and, as you say, I have been around a long time.  The market, now, is in sort of a double orbit.  I mean, you`ve got the new-age stocks swirling around up higher, looks like the fundamentals don`t matter too much, just a concept or the thesis.  And then the standard stocks are very susceptible to downturns on bad news, or even flat news.      TUCKER: Bob, my question is, were we spoiled by the last three years of the market where we saw these unbelievable returns, and we tended to forget that there is, in fact, risk in the stock market? Are we just getting re-introduced to risk here, Bob? 

 STOVALL:  I think we have been used to these great successes. You know, we haven`t had a real genuine bear market since 1974, `75, and people that choose to forget that the average return over many years for stocks is 11 or 12 percent.  Now, if you don`t get a double every year people are dissatisfied, and also, the record shows that the gains have been 20 percent plus these last several years.  So this is really a double cold shower return to reality that is going on right now. 

 KEENAN:  And you know, the conventional wisdom was, the Nasdaq was where the froth was, and when that cracked up, people would run for safety of the blue chips.  But when you have a stock like Procter & Gamble break down, and the liquidity in that stock break down, what does that portend if we do have a severe selloff in the Nasdaq? 

 STOVALL:  Just looking at Procter & Gamble, for example, it is --it had about 70 percent of the volume yesterday was institutional.  It shows that the big guys sell it right away, and it becomes, sort of, dead money for a long time, until they can accumulate more fans.  And I think that could be repeated if other companies come through with similar-type results. 

 But I think investors, now, should try to have participants in both of these orbits, I referred to, and look at some of the good stocks that have been pulled down by Procter & Gamble`s bad news, such as, in the food business, you`ve got Ralston Purina and Quaker Oats, which are selling at modest multiples.  And, if you don`t have stocks like that, now, maybe you should buy a few. 

 But I think you have to stay with the stocks that you have confidence in and the new-age zone, as well.  You`ve got to, I think, have a participation in both of those areas. 

 TUCKER:  All right, Bob, thanks very much for being our guest IN THE MONEY, Bob Stovall. 

 STOVALL:  Thank you, Bill, Terry. 

 KEENAN:  Thanks a lot, Bob. 

 OK, let`s go to the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, where trading is extremely active again today. 

 And let`s check in with Rhonda Schaffler.  And she is joined by a trader there, Joe Cangemi. 

 And welcome. 

 RHONDA SCHAFFLER, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Hi there, Terry and Bill. 

 Well, Joe, you know, this was a pretty wild week, so far, here: big losses.  Talk to us a little bit about the mood on the trading floor. 

 JOSEPH P. CANGEMI, FRANCIS P. MAGLIO & COMPANY:  Well, everybody was a bit apprehensive this morning coming in.  I mean, we had a substantial move in the markets yesterday.  I think the papers summed it up best when everybody started to realize that the so-called "old-economy" stocks were down so significantly since year-end. 

 And we`ve seen some support here today.  There is some selling pressure around, there has been plenty of buying interest to absorb it. Markets are off broadly across the way, but, generally, under control. It looks like the technology stocks, which had run up so substantially since the beginning of the year, are starting to see a little of that selling pressure and realizing the valuations may be a little ahead of themselves. 

 SCHAFFLER:  Even though the losses today are pretty contained for the Dow, why didn`t everyone just come in and decide: Look, this was a huge dip?  What happened to that old mentality of buying on the dips? It`s just not working here. 

 CANGEMI:  Well, I don`t -- I think, on the short term, you may be correct.  But I think, in the long term, that old tradition will, probably, ring true. 

 I think that they will buy these fundamentally-good economy stocks, and realize that our economy is very strong, once we get over this little oil crisis we have going on right now.  Prices in the crude, it really had a dampening effect, as you can see what happened with Procter & Gamble.  Their resource costs have gone up, their stable products` prices can`t go higher because of price pressures, and, I mean, that will have to work its way through.  But, I think, generally speaking, they will come to buy these stocks, and the market will come to a screeching bull market again. 

 SCHAFFLER:  The question, of course, just continues to be: when? And I guess, with all these worries, the Federal Reserve has to be done raising interest rates before people sort of wake up and see there is still profit growth out there and some of these stocks are looking cheap. 

 CANGEMI:  I think that the professional trader realizes that the interest rates are -- rises are coming and they are kind of building that into their structure. 

 From a retail perspective, I think that people will be less apprehensive once the moves are concluded and they`ve come out and said: That`s it; we look like we have been able to put an end to this slide. 

 You also need to look at a little bit of the leverage in the market; it`s a little extended right now, so. 

 SCHAFFLER:  OK, thanks so much, Joe Cangemi... 

 CANGEMI:  Thanks, Rhonda. 

 SCHAFFLER:  ... for joining us. 

 And we`ve got the Dow here with just this moderate losses, as Joe was pointing out, down about 29 points. 

 One stock you would think that there would be a recovery in would be Procter & Gamble.  That was the culprit behind much of the losses yesterday; 136 points worth of the Dow`s drop was due to P&G on its earnings warning.  But no recovery yet in that stock. 

 You had mentioned drug stocks performing pretty well.  Another group where we are seeing some buying are the transports. 

 Other than that, a cautious trading day after the big sell-off yesterday -- Bill, Terry. 

 KEENAN:  That is for sure.  Thanks, Rhonda.  And, you know, P&G is down two with a -- it continued to be very heavy trading; 17 million shares have traded so far. 

 TUCKER:  You know, it`s interesting because, after Procter & Gamble came out yesterday, Kimberly & Clark, Colgate, Palmolive all rushed out to say: Look, we are on track with our numbers; Don`t panic here.  They were not spared in the sell-down yesterday because they sold off fairly sharply. Kimberly & Clark is up about $2, just shy of $2 a share today; so nice recovery there. 

 Another part of the market that seems to be seeing some recovery as well is the paper side of the market.  I know International Paper, which is a Dow component, is up 1 3/8. 

 KEENAN:  Yes, bouncing off a new low on that stock. 

 OK, the real selling right now is in the Nasdaq, where we are at pretty close to our lows of the session. 

 Let`s bring Charles Molineaux and take the temperature at the Nasdaq. 

 Charles, what`s going on because it looked like a promising open? 

 CHARLES MOLINEAUX, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  It did.  But we are seeing some really broad selling across a whole assortment of sectors. 

 Check out a couple of losers on the day: We`ve got industrials, biotechnology stocks, financial stocks are, actually, down by almost four and a half percent, and chip stocks, which had held off selling yesterday, are seeing some of the worst of it today.  The Philadelphia Semiconductor Index is now down more than four and a half percent. 

 Internets also are off, but not as severely.  But they are falling two and a half percent. 

 So, we are looking at a pretty broad selling spate going on right now on very heavy volume: 725 million shares. 

 TUCKER:  You know, we are at 4725, that probably is the point where we should note that that`s 200 points below the high of the session today... 

 MOLINEAUX:  That`s right. 

 TUCKER:  ... so, this sell-off is, actually, much bigger than it would appear. 

 MOLINEAUX:  Yes, that`s right.  We`re looking at a very big sell-off because we had a high of over 5000, 5006, on the day yesterday, and plummeted from that.  We are now well below a 200-point loss from there, absolutely. 

 KEENAN:  And the volume, I`m looking at three-quarters of a billion shares already at only 90 minutes into the session. 

 MOLINEAUX:  Yes, very decisive selling.  This isn`t a big move prompted by low volume.  We`re looking at a lot of selling going on. 

 TUCKER:  Are the big caps holding up under this, Charles? 

 MOLINEAUX:  Not hardly.  No, we`re looking at -- let`s take a look at some of those.  Microsoft, which was looking strong earlier and managed to gain even in yesterday`s selling, is now off.  So is Cisco Systems. Intel is down by almost 2 percent.  MCI WorldCom is holding up, though. Check that out.  It`s up by almost 2 1/2 percent. And Oracle`s up by almost 3 percent on the day today.  We had a pretty good day for Oracle. Linux power house Red Hat is going to be shipping its Red Hat Linux Enterprise edition optimized for the Oracle 8i system. 

 Of course, Oracle has had a phenomenal run-up.  In fact, check it out: This stock is now up 291 percent over the past 52 weeks.  But look at what has happened since the beginning of the year.  It was actually up 33 percent this year alone.  So Oracle`s one of our very good stories, and it is holding up on the day today while a lot of the rest of the big caps, with, of course, the exception of MCI WorldCom, are falling off. 

 TUCKER:  All right, thanks, Charles.  Appreciate that. 

 You know, 291 percent run-up over 52 weeks probably merits a little bit of profit-taking. 

 KEENAN:  Yes, looks like that might happen. 

 OK, another factor in play in the markets: the incredible run-up in oil prices.  Can oil be one way to try to pump up your portfolio? 

 TUCKER:  Well, this morning, light sweet crude is trading down $1.35 at $32.78.  Yesterday, it gained $1.95, pushing it above $34 a barrel, putting it at 10-year highs. 

 So we sent in IN THE MONEY`s Fred Katayama down to the New York Mercantile Exchange to cover the movement in oil for us, and he joins us from there now. 

 Hey, Fred, what`s up?      FRED KATAYAMA, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Terry, Bill, it`s very noisy here at the New York Merc where metals and energy are traded, including oil.  What you`re seeing here right behind me, that huge circle there, is the pit where light sweet crude, the benchmark for U.S. oil prices, is traded.  Directly behind that pit, diagonally across in front of that American flag, is the pit where gasoline is traded. 

 Now, let`s shift over off to the left of that circle in front of the board, and that`s the pit where home heating oil is traded. 

 Right now, we`ve got light sweet crude trading down $1.38 cents at $32.75 a barrel.  This just one day after crude oil prices rose past the $34 level to the highest level we`ve seen since November of 1990. 

 Now, there are two reasons why oil prices are down today as traders take profits.  One, oil ministers from Saudi Arabia and Iran met and they agreed on the need to, in their words, timely oil supplies to balance the market.  Well, traders took that as a sign that Iran is shifting its stance to a stance in favor of boosting oil production, and that`s why we`re seeing oil prices take a breather today. 

 Now, until now, Iran had been adamant maintaining that there was no need to boost production.  A second reason, a report came out today indicating, showing that crude oil inventories in the U.S. actually rose.  Now, traders have been expecting the report to show a further contraction, so it really surprised them. 

 Now, the American Petroleum Institute reporting that stockpiles of crude oil as well as gasoline rose in the U.S. to the week ending March 3.  All traders eyes will be on the calendar date of March 27. That`s when oil ministers from the 11 OPEC member nations will meet in Vienna, Austria.  They`re to decide whether to boost production of oil. 

 A lot of traders we spoke to, and oil watchers, say it`s not a question of whether but by how much will they increase oil production. Some people say that unless they boost oil production by two million barrels or more, we`re going to see a continued rise in crude oil prices as well as gasoline prices. 

 As for crude oil, we are seeing them trade at the highest level in nine or 10 years because crude oil has basically doubled in price over the past year, the reason being inventories are very low as OPEC member nations stick to their production cuts. 

 As for stocks, this really had a huge toll on the stock market as we`ve seen earlier, as we saw the Dow Jones industrials tumble in triple digits yesterday led by a profit warning from P&G.  Procter & Gamble warning partly because oil prices are rising and that is hurting their prices for raw materials, their acquisition prices.  And a lot of investors fear that if P&G is hurt, a lot of other industrial stocks will be hurt as well -- Terry and Bill. 

 TUCKER:  All right, thanks, Fred. 

 KEENAN:  Thanks, Fred. 

 TUCKER:  And if you think it`s loud, remember he`s standing up above the action.  You should be down in the middle of that fray.  It gets really crazy down there. 

 KEENAN:  Makes the big boards seem quiet. 

 OK, coming up next on IN THE MONEY, former New Jersey Senator Bill Bradley is taking his name off the ballot.  We will have the details just ahead. 

 TUCKER:  Plus, as oil trades above $32 a barrel, are shares of oil drillers now a good buy?  Halliburton is our "Stock of the Day. IN THE MONEY will be right back. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 KEENAN:  A "Wake-Up Call" this morning to the YankeeNets.  The conglomerate that operates the New York Yankees and the New Jersey Nets basketball teams for... 

 (AUDIO GAP) 

 TUCKER:  All right, it`s time now to check this morning`s top news stories. 

 A major development today in the presidential race.  Sources close to the Bill Bradley campaign say the Democratic challenger plans to drop out tomorrow.  What`s more, they say Bradley will endorse rival Al Gore when he announces his decision.  All of this is, no doubt, great news for Gore who won a decided victory over Bradley yesterday in yesterday`s Super Tuesday elections.  It was, in fact, a clean sweep for Gore who won 15 states and the American Samoa.  He now has 1,421 delegates, about two-thirds of what he needs for the Democratic nomination. 

 George W. Bush has collected 681 of the 1,034 he needs for the Republican nomination.  He beat John McCain in nine states, including delegate-rich California and New York.  McCain won in Connecticut, Massachusetts, Rhode Island and Vermont. 

 (AUDIO GAP) 

 ... go to CNN`s Pat Neal in New York who broke the story of Bradley`s impending departure from presidential contest. 

 Hi, Pat. 

 PAT NEAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Good morning, Bill.  Well, as you mentioned, Senator Bill Bradley has decided to drop out of the race, senior advisers have told us this morning. 

 Right now, the former senator who`s from New Jersey is on -- is making his way from New York, where he`s been here for a rally last night, to his home in Montclair, New Jersey. 

 Last night, as you mentioned, he was trounced by Vice President Al Gore across the country in the Super Tuesday contest.  Today, Bradley says he is talking with his top advisers about what he will do next, but he will hold a news conference tomorrow, probably in the New Jersey area, to talk with reporters about why he`s decided to go ahead and drop out, what he plans to do next. 

 Bradley has also said that he feels very good that he has been responsible for shaping much of the debate in this presidential campaign.  He`s had a campaign for 14 months talking about big issues for the American political scene, including universal access to health care, gun control, campaign finance reform -- Bill. 

 TUCKER:  All right, Pat Neal reporting on the Bradley campaign. 

 Let`s talk now about John McCain.  His disappointing showing yesterday had him huddling with advisers today, as he put it, to take stock of the losses. 

 CNN`s Jonathan Karl is in Los Angeles with more on the future of the McCain campaign -- Jonathan. 

 JONATHAN KARL, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Bill, McCain is off to his cabin in beautiful Sedona, Arizona.  It is there that he will be huddled with his advisers, his advisers saying that they will lay out every possible scenario for McCain, every possible option, ranging from immediately dropping out of this race for the presidency, to continuing on to the next range of primaries, to even looking at the possibility of a third-party run.  But about that third option, the third-party run, McCain`s advisers saying an extremely unlikely scenario, and McCain has long ruled it out as a possibility. 

 Now, McCain had been -- his advisers have been acknowledging that it would be very, very difficult to keep this campaign going on, the delegate math looks very bad.  McCain had been holding out for a victory in at least one of the three big states last night, in either Ohio, New York or California, came up on empty handed on that score. 

 If he were to continue his candidacy on to next wave of primaries, his advisers acknowledge, it would be as issues candidate, because they say that it is becoming pretty much a mathematical impossibility to win the Republican nomination. 

 But McCain is saying all along that regardless of what he does, that his crusade to reform the Republican Party, and to reform the political system, especially in terms of campaign finance, will continue.  It is a battle that he hopes to wage within the Republican Party. 

 Reporting live from Los Angeles, this Jonathan Karl. 

 TUCKER:  Beyond presidential primaries, there were some other issues on ballots yesterday, including California`s controversial Proposition 22.  Voters in California passed the measure by a nearly-two-to-one margin.  It prevents the state from recognizing same-sex marriages performed legally in other states.  Thirty states and the federal government already have laws in place, denying recognition of same-sex marriages. 

 Californians also flatly rejected another proposition, allowing them to vote for "none of the above." The addition would have allowed voters to express their opposition to all of the candidates on the ballot. 

 KEENAN:  OK, you may have noticed, while were updating on those news headlines, the Dow has turned around about 100 points in the last 20 minutes.  There are three reasons why: GE, Merck, and Johnson & Johnson, the drug stocks adding to some earlier gains.  Microsoft also coming off its lows of the session. 

 Straight ahead on IN THE MONEY:  Halliburton is outstanding in its field: the oil field, that is. 

 TUCKER:  But can the energy services company energize our portfolio? You decide.  It`s our "Stock of the Day.  IN THE MONEY will be right back. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 KEENAN:  OK, there you see the Dow trying to find some support after being down almost 600 points in the last two sessions, we are up 49. There is some buying in the drug sector, and that is offsetting continued decline in shares of Procter & Gamble, that stock is down another dollar and a half. 

 TUCKER:  As we have been reporting, oil prices and oil stocks are both sharply lower today.  This coming just one day after a jump in the oil sector.  In addition, oil service company Halliburton has been making news of its own, announcing the appointment of a new chief technology officer.  So, we have picked Halliburton as our "Stock of the Day." 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 (voice-over):  The world`s largest provider of oil field services is getting a boost from the increase in oil production.  After a tough 1999 for the sector, oil service stocks are moving up on the hopes of a lasting expansion in energy production. 

 Investors have high hopes, driving Halliburton shares up 36 percent over the last year.  The bulls say, there is enormous earnings potential still to unfold.  Halliburton`s products are technologically advanced and the company is financially strong. 

 The bears say there isn`t enough production to match oil supplies with demand and when the oil prices fall, Halliburton shares could deflate, too. 

 So our question is:  Do we want to fill up our IN THE MONEY portfolio with Halliburton stock? 

 (END VIDEOTAPE)      TUCKER:  The question is:  Does this represent a buying opportunity?  Halliburton is down $3.25 a share at 41 1/4.  DLJ today cutting Halliburton from a market outperform to a market perform. 

 KEENAN:   And joining us now with more on Halliburton and his take on the stock, Salomon Smith Barney`s oil services analyst, Geoff Kieburtz. 

 Geoff, welcome, good to have you with us. 

 GEOFF KIEBURTZ, SALOMON SMITH BARNEY:  Thank you. 

 KEENAN:  The stock is well off its 52-week high.  Is now a buying opportunity in your opinion? 

 KIEBURTZ:  We do think it is a buying opportunity.  The stocks in the oil service group have been very active, very positive, in the last month especially.  I think, as the market has realized that if OPEC does increase production, we are now looking at a pullback in oil prices, from the $32 to $34 range, rather than from a $25 range, and that leaves a lot of cushion, and a lot of opportunity for increased investment oil field services. 

 TUCKER:  I had trouble hearing some of your question -- because of -- answer because of technical difficulties, Geoff, so if I go back over the answer forgive me here.  But I was curious, a lot of oil services companies have contracts that were negotiated when oil was back around $10 a barrel.  Those contracts are due to be renegotiated soon.  Does Halliburton stand to benefit from any renegotiations that might take place in an environment of $30 a barrel for oil? 

 KIEBURTZ:  Sure, I think that is absolutely correct.  And, you know, Halliburton, like most of the oil field service companies, has mix of work that is contracted on a long-term basis, and work that is essentially on a spot basis.  But for those contracts that were entered into, and, times of weaker oil prices, you know, as they get renegotiated in healthier oil price environment, we are certainly going to, you know, see the benefits in Halliburton`s earnings. 

 KEENAN:  What if oil prices were to retrace a lot of the gains that we have seen in the last year and go down, back say to low 20s. How would that influence your recommendation on Halliburton? 

 KIEBURTZ:  Well, actually, it would not have a significantly negative effect on our view -- the outlook.  We do a survey of expiration production spending every six months.  The last one we published was early January.  And in that, the respondents, some 250 oil companies around the world, were, you know, planning their expenditure levels on the basis of $19 oil.  So a low 20 oil prices is still a very healthy environment for the oil field service industry. 

 TUCKER:  All right, Geoff, thank you very much.  Geoff Kieburtz of Salomon Smith Barney has been our guest.  Thanks. 

 KIEBURTZ:  Thanks.      TUCKER:  All right, now that you`ve heard the arguments for and against Halliburton, get on down to the bottom of our CNNfn.com Web site and cast your vote.  Tell us if we should buy it or not. 

 As for what you thought about yesterday`s "Stock of the Day," Network Solutions: 56 percent of you telling us to go for it and buy the stock. So it makes it into our IN THE MONEY portfolio. 

 And you know, Terry, part of this portfolio is to give everybody an experience at dealing with buying and selling, and, timing, when they do that.  Well, I noticed with great embarrassment, one stock we should probably look at just because, well, we sold it too early. Learnout & Hauspie was one of the stocks under review at end of 1999. We sold it, oh, right down there on that little first bump, right before it started taking off.  Learnout & Hauspie, now, well above $100 a share, and sometimes it just hurts. 

 KEENAN:  It is always difficult to know when to sell and then of course the problem is when to get back in if you like a stock.  That is always a hard decision as well.  So, it is not just figuring out when to buy. 

 OK, just ahead on IN THE MONEY:  Do you like high drama and plenty of suspense?  Well, the day traders certainly do and we will take you inside their world, and see how they are dealing with all this market volatility. 

 TUCKER:  Plus, we will check on some tech plays that could put your capital on the fast-track for growth.  IN THE MONEY will be right back. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 KEENAN:  Welcome back to IN THE MONEY, everyone.  I`m Terry Keenan. 

 TUCKER:  And I am Bill Tucker. 

 We`re looking at a nice comeback in the Dow.  The Nasdaq also up about 70 points of its lows of the session.  Sparking a lot of the turnaround: some very unusual stocks today. 

 KEENAN:  Yes.  We`re two hours into the trading session.  Let`s take a look at what`s going on at the Big Board.  And as you can see, the Dow is firmly in positive territory right now.  What`s helping are the dogs of the Dow, some of the big losers bouncing back at this hour.  We have some strength in Caterpillar, G.E. and, of course, some of the drug stocks; Johnson & Johnson is up two. 

 TUCKER:  Yes, we have Microsoft also showing a modest gain, but that`s being offset somewhat by Intel, which is taking a bit sell-off, and that sell-off is being felt on the Nasdaq.  It would appear that the old-line growth stocks are in favor, at least for the moment, on the Street, and the tech stocks are the ones that people are choosing to take some money out of.  It`s down currently 65 points, 65 1/2 points at 4782.  But again, that is well off the lows of the session that we`ve seen so far. 

 KEENAN:  Exactly.  A lot of people are looking for some strength in Cisco, because it did not participate in the last leg of the Nasdaq climb, last week or two, so keep an eye on that stock.  Let me see if I just can pull it up. 

 TUCKER:  Cisco not moving much yet despite the fact that it announced a big B2B venture with Cap Gemini, a $4-billion venture, which really expands Cisco`s presence over into Europe, and the stock really not getting much of a (OFF-MIKE). 

 KEENAN:  No.  Cisco shares still under water, down 1 3/16 right now. 

 TUCKER:  All right, well, the Nasdaq failing to bounce back from yesterday`s big, double-digit losses.  Still, the composite is up more than 100 percent from a year ago.  That`s one reason why many are voicing concerns that maybe there`s a heavy fall a coming. 

 But our next guest is betting the ranch on technology.  The bulk of his assets -- there you see it -- are parked in chip and chip-equipment stocks.  Joining us now is Rod Berry of Elijah Asset Management.  He is the co-portfolio manager of the Information Age Fund as well. 

 And welcome. 

 ROD BERRY, ELIJAH ASSET MANAGEMENT:  Thank you. 

 TUCKER:  Does this unnerve you or does this sell-off in some kind of a way make you feel a little bit better about the tech stocks? 

 BERRY:  Yes, I`ve got to tell you, the sell-off makes me feel a lot better.  We`ve been anticipating this sell-off, the tech stocks have had a long, hard run here, and we think this is healthy for the market. We`ve had 15 Nasdaq corrections in the 90s of 10 percent or more, seven of those have come just in the last two years, and, you know, we were expecting this. 

 KEENAN:  So we`re 200 points off the highs that we hit yesterday when we crossed 5,000 just briefly.  But in order for the Nasdaq to catch up to the correction we`ve seen in the Dow, it would have to go down another 12 percent or so.  Is that what you`re expecting? 

 BERRY:  No, I don`t think we`re going to go down that much, but I do believe that it is unhealthy to have the Dow and the Nasdaq divergent to this extent.  I think that we`re going to -- we are going to come more in line, but I -- but technology is really where the true growth is. The fundamentals are outstanding long term, and I don`t think we`re going to see the Nasdaq go down to the levels of where the Dow is. 

 TUCKER:  Well, Rod, what`s an investor to do?  Clearly they`ve been putting their money in technology stocks.  Do they -- where do they run and hide, or do they?  Do they just stay the course and wait for the sell-off to end?      BERRY:  Well, I think the tech sector has proven to be incredibly resilient over the last couple of years, even with the corrections that we`ve seen, and I think most investors really recognize it as a key growth area going forward here.  So I believe that technology will prevail this year and potentially in the next year as one of the best-performing sectors of the market. 

 KEENAN:  Still, we`ve seen a lot of rotation this year into the biotechs, into some of the B2B names and out of some of the business- to-commerce Internet names that were so hot last year.  What trends and what sectors are you going to play going forward? 

 BERRY:  Well, we`ve -- first off, we`re very much focused on the leaders, we`re focused on the larger-cap names which have underperformed to a certain extent in the tech world this year.  But we like to identify the marketshare leaders, the guerrillas of their sectors.  One of the big areas that we`re focused on is the semiconductor area.  We have about 25 percent of the fund in semiconductor manufacturers and then another 15 percent in the semi-equipment manufacturers.  We believe we`re in the early innings of a two-year -- two- to three-year cycle here, and we`re going to see tremendous growth. 

 TUCKER:  More bullish on the semiconductors than you are on the telecommunications? 

 BERRY:  Well, we`re pretty bullish on telecom, too.  We have about 25 percent of the fund in communications equipment and service providers. But the semiconductor manufacturers, such as Xilinx, are -- with 70 percent of their revenues coming from the communications sector, are benefiting as well. 

 TUCKER:  All right, Rod, thank you very much for being our guest today, Rod Berry of Elijah Asset Management. 

 BERRY:  Thank you. 

 TUCKER:  Well, all this market volatility, of course, can be terrifying, but there are those who thrive on it: the day traders. 

 Yes.  We sent IN THE MONEY`s Bob Beard down to Net Trade`s floor in Clarendon, Virginia, and he joins us from there now. 

 Hey, Bob. 

 BOB BEARD, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, hi, Bill. 

 The mood here at Net Trade is one of quiet concentration.  You talk about the noise of the New York Stock Exchange at one end of the spectrum; this is the other end of the spectrum.  Things are awfully quite here; I`m the loudest thing in Net Trade right now. 

 The day traders here are all, of course, hoping for pops up and down, mainly on Nasdaq stocks, high-tech stocks.  There`s a lot of short selling going on here at Net Trade right now.  They are seeing a slow and steady drop in some of the Nasdaq stocks.  Some of the stocks that people are watching here today: SMSI, Smith Micro Software, JDS Uniphase, Inktomi, SelectNet, Pharmacopeia, so they`re looking at some drug stocks and mainly high-tech stocks. 

 The most important advice for a day trader: don`t panic, don`t fall in love with a stock, and that`s just what`s happening here at Arlington, Virginia, today. 

 Back to you. 

 KEENAN:  Right.  A lot of concentration as the markets have been whipsawed throughout this week. 

 TUCKER:  I know.  I kept thinking he should whisper that sigout (ph) for us. 

 Well, just ahead on IN THE MONEY:  Israeli and Palestinian leaders reach an agreement.  We`ll tell you what, next. 

 KEENAN:  Plus, how do you put a firewall between the gyrating markets and your investments?  We`re going to have some answers on that up next. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 KEENAN:  Stocks at their highs of the day at the New York Stock Exchange after the Dow traded in negative territory for most of the morning.  We are seeing some flight to some of the battered stocks, the drug stocks are higher, as are shares of Caterpillar; Microsoft also bouncing off its lows of the session, and that is helping the Dow, Microsoft currently up 1 1/2. 

 TUCKER:  All right, time again to check on the morning`s top news stories.  A senior adviser to Bill Bradley confirms to CNN that the former New Jersey senator is dropping out of the presidential race. CNN is told that in the wake of Bradley`s devastating Super Tuesday losses to Al Gore, the former New Jersey senator will be speaking to his supporters and plans a news conference tomorrow to announce his support for the vice president. 

 On the Republican side, two senior aides to John McCain say the Arizona senator is, quote, "all but certain," end quote, to drop out of the race as early as tomorrow himself.  Following McCain`s losses to George Bush in yesterday`s primaries and caucuses.  A senior McCain adviser is telling CNN that the delegate math is devastating, and it`s hard to see a rationale for going on. 

 Bush has already turned his attention away from McCain and toward a general election battle with Gore.  The Texas governor says he and McCain will be able to resolve their differences. 

 Well, like George W. Bush, Al Gore is now looking ahead to the general election campaign, following his sweep of the Super Tuesday primaries. 

 CNN`s Gary Tuchman is with the Gore campaign in the vice president`s home state of Tennessee -- Gary.      GARY TUCHMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well that`s right, Bill.  And good morning to you. 

 Al Gore is about to leave a hotel here in Nashville, Tennessee for a short bus ride to Carthage, about 40 miles east of here to visit his mother, Paulene.  When he gets there, he will have a lot of good things to tell her about his professional life.  He can tell her about his Super Tuesday sweep yesterday.  He tell her that his only Democratic competitor, Bill Bradley, is dropping out of the race.  He can tell her about the great celebration that took place in the campaign hotel last night, after all those victories.  But his mother, who was married to the late Senator Albert Gore Sr., knows a lot about elections, and knows the toughest part is still to come, the general election. 

 Albert Gore Jr. is now getting geared up for that general election. He spent the last week or so primarily criticizing Republicans, and not leveling much criticism at all at Bill Bradley. But now, he can focus his attacks on the GOP, particularly George W. Bush. 

 A full five months before the Democratic National Convention, Al Gore is ready to battle.  After he visits his mother, he will hop on Air Force II and fly to Michigan, where he has a town meeting scheduled tonight.  Michigan and Minnesota have Democratic caucuses this weekend, but it appears those caucuses will be with only one declared Democratic candidate. 

 This is Gary Tuchman, CNN, live in Nashville, Tennessee. 

 TUCKER:  All right, thank you, Gary. 

 Israelis and Palestinians have agreed to resume peace talks later this month in Washington.  That development after meetings in Tel Aviv and Ramallah between Ehud Barak and Yasser Arafat.  The Washington talks will resume at the level of negotiations, not leaders.  The two sides have agreed to set a new deadline for the framework agreement. 

 September 13th remains the deadline for a final accord.  Israel has also agreed to additional land transfers to the Palestinians. 

 Well, President Clinton is rallying Democrats against a Republican plan that would tie a minimum wage increase to a tax cut package.  Mr. Clinton, who invited Democratic leaders to the White House this morning to plot strategy, calls the Republican plan fiscally irresponsible.  In exchange for raising the minimum wage by $1 over three years, Republicans want to cut taxes by nearly $123 billion.  The House may vote on the issue tomorrow. 

 Mardi Gras celebrations have ended across the U.S., but not without some trouble.  In Seattle, festivities got out of hand last night and police were called in to restore order.  Rowdy revelers threw bottles at the police and got a dose of pepper gas in return. Authorities say, as many as 500 people were involved in the disturbances. 

 At the most famous Mardi Gras celebration, the one down in New Orleans, no serious problems were reported. 

 Another major U.S. company is joining the growing list of businesses giving employees a high-tech perk: free personal computers. Intel will give all of its full- and part-time employees workers free PCs beginning in July.  Ford Motor Company and Delta and American Airlines are among the big corporations already providing free computers. 

 While some experts say the move helps keep workers up-to-date on technologies, others say it`s a ploy to get employees to take their work home. 

 KEENAN:  Don`t we all do that already. 

 Well, throughout the hour, we`ve been looking at how you should play this volatile market now that some of the bluest stocks on Wall Street may no longer be the safest place to invest. 

 TUCKER:  Should you be loading up on technology stocks if you don`t already own them?  Well, some of the nation`s largest mutual fund companies have substantial positions in them.  For example, Vanguard has a fund with 29 percent weighting in techs, and the fund has a six percent return year-to-date. 

 KEENAN:  Well, Joining us now from Vanguard is Jeff Molitor. 

 Jeff, welcome.  Nice to have you with us. 

 JEFF MOLITOR, VANGUARD FUNDS:  Thank you, nice to be here. 

 KEENAN:  Let`s talk about your main product, which of course is the S&P 500 Index Fund.  It has been a great performer over the years. It has been kind of a no-brainer investment for people who wanted to put their money aside, and have it passively invested.  This year it hasn`t been the place to be.  Are you seeing any sort of net redemptions? 

 MOLITOR:  Well, we don`t talk about redemptions in terms of overall portfolios, but clearly, I think the one thing that we recognize is that investors have too much of a focus on short-term performance, and tend to go where the performance has been.  And the S&P 500 has not been the strong area this year.  It is much more of a small-cap environment right now. 

 TUCKER:  You know, this is a market that makes a lot of people very unnerved, and probably has a lot of people wondering:  Is there a safe place to put their investments?  What do you say to people who come to you, going, look, I suddenly feel like I need to have a little calmer environment, what are you recommending? 

 MOLITOR:  Well, I think the question of safety really gets to what your investment horizon is.  If somebody is looking for something that is going to be safe for the next week, the only place to really go is something along the lines of a money market.  And anybody who thinks that they can go into an area of the stock market that is going to be -- that has that degree of safety, they are kidding themselves.      Stock market has risks, as we could see yesterday, but that doesn`t mean that it is a bad place to be for the longer term.  And I think that a lot of people are confusing safety with trying to reach an objective over the long-term. 

 KEENAN:  The S&P index funds, of course, try to mirror the broader market.  But S&P has been a little slow in putting tech stocks into that index because they have certain liquidity requirements and the like. Are you looking at other products that will help investors play the tech sector in more of a pure fashion? 

 MOLITOR:  We really try to shy away from the idea of going into pure sector funds, unless it is one that might offer somebody more --just diversification from the broad market.  If you look at -- the kind of technology indexes or even a Nasdaq index right now, they tend to offer more in the area of just volatility, rather than just pure diversification.  So for investors who want to get something hot, there are plenty of places to get it.  But that`s a pretty big bet at where the market is priced at this point in time. 

 TUCKER:  All right, Jeff, thanks for being our guest.  Jeff Molitor of the Vanguard Funds. 

 MOLITOR:  Thank you very much. 

 KEENAN:  Thanks a lot, Jeff. 

 Straight ahead on IN THE MONEY:  "Fortune"`s Andy Serwer will be with us. 

 Andy, what do you have on the plate today? 

 ANDY SERWER, EDITOR-AT-LARGE, "FORTUNE" MAGAZINE:  What is going on with Terayon Communications?  The stock is up 200 points this year. Can this company deliver the goods? 

 Stay tuned, IN THE MONEY will be right back. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 TUCKER:  All right, you are looking at live pictures from Wellborn, Florida.  At least three people are confirmed dead in a massive highway pileup involving an acid spill in North Florida this morning.  The crash involving at least 19 vehicles occurred on Interstate 10 near Wellborn, about 70 miles west of Jacksonville.  In addition to three people killed, at least 15 others were injured.  CNN is told there was poor visibility caused by smoke from a wildfire and that one of the trucks was carrying 200 drums of acid.  The type of acid has not been identified.  Hazardous materials team is on the scene.  A 17-mile stretch of I-10 has been shut down to traffic for the time being. 

 Well, a number of joint ventures in the "E-World" to talk about today. IBM announcing a wide-ranging deal with Ariba and i2 Technologies to capture more of the B2B consulting market.  The deal also calls for Big Blue to take a minority stake in both Ariba and i2 equity -- investment in both Ariba and i2, but financial terms have not been disclosed.  The three companies plan to integrate their technologies to help companies automate their dealings with trading partners. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 WILLIAM ETHERINGTON, VP, IBM:  We do know it`s an exploding marketplace.  We do know that there are values being created and new segmentation of the supply chains that are happening.  And we believe that we have the industry leading capability to address that marketplace. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 TUCKER:  Another deal:  Cisco investing $671 million in France`s Cap Gemini.  The two companies also announcing a new consulting business to help established companies get online.  The venture will focus on telecom, Internet service providers and media companies. Cisco taking a 5 percent stake in the venture just last week, Cap Gemini bought Ernst & Young`s consulting business. 

 KEENAN:  OK, Andy Serwer joins us now as he does everyday at this time.  And today, Andy has a look at one stock that`s been a real winner, and it`s one of these triple-digit Nasdaq plays that has run up 10-fold this -- in the last year. 

 SERWER:  Yes, I mean -- that`s right, Terry, Terayon Communication`s broadband mania.  And, as we said, this stock has been incredible, from $25 all the way up to $280 this year.  I mean, just what can you say about it.  They make cable modems and the chips that go into those cable modems.  And investors have been really excited about this thing.  The controversy here, though, has to do with protocols for the next generation of cable modems. 

 Right now, cable modems work on a protocol called TDMA and Terayon has a new protocol called SCDMA.  Sounds a little bit like Qualcomm`s protocols, which is very similar, too. 

 Now, the company seems to be suggesting, though, that its new protocol is a lock, that the governing spec body here is saying that they will definitely go with Terayon`s -- that`s Cable Labs, that`s the governing body.  And it`s really not the case that they have actually gone ahead and picked Terayon`s.  Terayon is going head-to-head with Broadcom here.  Broadcom has its specs, which is advanced TDMA. 

 A lot of excitement here with Terayon, but they`re going right up against Broadcom, which is a huge monster company here, and it could be that investors have gotten a little over-excited with the stock. We`ll see. 

 KEENAN:  And Cable Labs, that`s going to make the decision, is a consortium of all the big cable companies, right? 

 SERWER:  That`s correct. 

 KEENAN:  And they`re going to pick between the specs. 

 SERWER:  That`s correct.  And short sellers have suggested that Terayon has misrepresented exactly how excited Cable Labs is.  You know, it`s one of these longs versus the shorts here.  Very interesting. We`ll see.  I mean, the company`s selling for 80-times revenues, though, so it`s way up there, and a lot of risk.  Broadcom is a juggernaut with some really good technology, so we`ll see. 

 TUCKER:  I was just going to ask you what the stock`s been doing, and there`s the chart. 

 KEENAN:  That`s it. 

 SERWER:  That`s the old spike-a-roo, Bill 

 KEENAN:  And when will Cable Labs make the decision? 

 SERWER:  It`s unclear.  You know, they`re suggesting over the next couple months.  You know, investors like to get way ahead of these things.  A lot of people have been excited.  Lehman Brothers really upgraded the stock.  I think they put a $300 price target on it.  So, you know, a lot of upside potentially, but maybe, just maybe, it won`t ever get there.  So we`ll have to just watch this one closely. 

 KEENAN:  That`s for sure. 

 Thanks a lot, Andy. 

 SERWER:  OK, guys. 

 KEENAN:  Andy Serwer. 

 TUCKER:  Andy Serwer, yes. 

 We did get a quick update on the markets at the moment.  We did see a turnaround.  Remember, we began the program with the Dow and the Nasdaq in the midst of a fairly strong sell-off, but we noted that there was support in the drug groups.  And the drug groups and the industrials, believe it or not -- industrials like Caterpillar and International Paper, which have been real dogs, have helped turn the Dow around.  It`s currently showing gains. 

 KEENAN:  Finally some buying in those beaten-down sectors.  And the Nasdaq has cut its losses in half.  We`re down 64. 

 We`ll see you tomorrow. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc.  ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by eMediaMillWorks, Inc.  (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.)  No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document ithm000020010807dw380001p




 Around the World's Markets - New York. 

90 words
8 March 2000
The Independent - London
IND
18
English
(c) 2000 Independent Newspapers (UK) Limited . All rights reserved. This material may not be published, distributed or exploited in any way.

 AS THE Nasdaq Composite index shot past the 5,000 milestone, with the aid of software king Microsoft, the consumer products stalwart Procter & Gamble led a big sell-off in the Dow Jones industrial average. 

 By late morning, Nasdaq was up 0.60 per cent at 4,934, whereas the Dow fell 2.18 per cent to 9,949. Procter & Gamble, the maker of Crest toothpaste and Tide laundry detergent, plunged more than 29 per cent after issuing a profit warning. 

Document ind0000020010811dw3800p9z


Business
Big Dow drop shakes foreign stock markets 

The Associated Press 
434 words
8 March 2000
The Grand Rapids Press
GRPR
English
© 2000 Grand Rapids Press.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All rights reserved.  

NEW YORK -- Stock prices were mixed in tentative early trading today as investors sought a direction following Tuesday's huge drop that pulled the Dow Jones industrials down nearly 375 points. 

The Dow was down 6.59 at 9,789.44 in the first hour of trading, while the Nasdaq composite index was up 46.42 at 4,921.26. 

Some uncertainty was to be expected after Tuesday, when the market was shocked by Procter &Gamble's warning that higher raw materials prices would hurt its profits for the rest of the company's fiscal year. 

Wall Street was already uneasy about the earnings outlook for big industrial companies before Procter &Gamble's announcement. The market was completely rattled by the fact that even Procter &Gamble, whose products include consumer staples such as Crest toothpaste and Tide detergent, could be vulnerable to earnings problems, and investors began to sell off a broad range of stocks. 

The Dow lost 374.47 and ended at 9,796.03, its lowest close in nearly a year. 

Even the technology-dominated Nasdaq, which has been relatively immune from profit concerns lately, was hit hard. 

The index made a brief foray past 5,000 for the first time Tuesday, but it eventually fell victim to widespread selling. 

Overseas markets were rattled today by Tuesday's drop on Wall Street, but as trading began on Wall Street, Europe's markets were little changed. 

In Paris, the benchmark CAC 40 index was down 0.16 percent, while London's Financial Times-Stock Exchange index was unchanged and the Frankfurt Xetra DAX index was up 0.7 percent. 

In earlier trading in Tokyo and Singapore, stock indexes were able to hold their losses to below 1 percent in volatile trading. 

Japan's benchmark Nikkei Stock Average, which fell sharply when trading began Wednesday, ended the session at 19,766.80, down 177.44, or 0.89 percent, from the day before. 

In Hong Kong, were down sharply in early trading but turned around late in the session. The blue-chip Hang Seng Index rose 86.07, or 0.5 percent, to 17,951.43, a new closing highs. 

"Although the U.S. fall was to a large extent due to Procter and Gamble's profit warning, the fall has had strong repercussions in the Hong Kong bourse," said Alex Wong, a research manager at OSK Asia Securities Ltd., as trading began there.  

Caption: AP PHOTO Foreign fallout: A money dealer shouts orders on  the Tokyo Foreign Exchange today. 

Document grpr000020010806dw3800933




Chaos hits the markets
 Report on Business: Money & Markets 
 Dow sinks on profit, rate fears 

 GUY DIXON 
Investment Reporter, Associated Press
747 words
8 March 2000
The Globe and Mail
GLOB
Metro
B1
English
 All material copyright Thomson Canada Limited or its licensors. All rights reserved. 

 A major profit warning and rising interest rates ravaged stock markets yesterday, sending the Dow Jones industrial average plunging nearly 4 per cent. 

 Procter & Gamble Co. started the carnage that drove the Dow down as much as 418 points -- its fourth-largest point drop on record -- in bone-rattling trading before finishing 374.47 points lower at 9,796.03. 

 But yesterday's action highlighted the divergence of the blue-chip Dow and the tech-driven Nasdaq Stock Market -- the old economy versus the new. Nasdaq actually crossed the 5,000 barrier early in the day before ending the day 57.01 points lower at 4,847.84. 

 Traditional industrial companies and makers of consumer products in the Dow's roster of blue-chip stocks became the prime target for nervous investors, looking to sell first and ask questions later. Market watchers prepared for further casualties today. 

 The Toronto Stock Exchange, which had enough problems coping with its own computer problems and delayed trading, dropped 155.39 points to 9,425.95. A number of Canadian stocks, such as Nortel Networks Corp. that trade in U.S. markets, fell because of pressure across the border. 

 Various interest-rate-sensitive Canadian sectors such as financial services also stayed weak on concerns that the Bank of Canada will continue to follow the U.S. Federal Reserve Board's lead in raising rates. 

 "I'm in no hurry to get into bank shares," George Vasic, an investment strategist at Warburg Dillon Read, told Bloomberg yesterday. "Interest rates are still headed higher. There's no big reason to get into those stocks." 

 Yesterday's trading at first seemed benign, with more of the same gradual divergence between falling industrial stocks and rising high-technology shares. 

 The report of a healthy 6.4-per-cent rise in U.S. productivity and the habitual morning gains among various tech stocks sent the Nasdaq climbing temporarily above the 5,000-point threshold for the first time. 

 Then came the plunge. A warning from consumer staple manufacturer P&G -- the maker of Tide detergent and Crest toothpaste -- that it expects a shortfall in earnings partly resulting from the rising costs of materials, spearheaded the plunge. 

 "It was an interesting juxtaposition when you have the upward revision in productivity and then the warning that costs are having an impact on profit margins," said Mario Angastiniotis, an analyst at Standard & Poor's MMS in Toronto. 

 "It woke everybody up to the fact that perhaps other companies are feeling rising inflationary pressures, and that unnerved those who had thought that productivity gains were going to get us out of this," he added. 

 Instead, companies watched as investors jettisoned stocks such as Coca-Cola Co. and Colgate Palmolive Co.,which in eras gone by were once seen as high-growth stocks. 

 The steep drop among many older companies came a day after Fed chairman Alan Greenspan implied once again in a speech that interest rates are likely to continue to rise. 

 "The 'old-line' companies have really been responding to the Federal Reserve's aggressive stand on interest rates," said Gerald Vincent, vice-president at Davis-Rea in Toronto. "Now that is not a news flash. The broad market [outside the technology sector] has been in a deteriorating trend since April, 1998." 

 LOST POINTS 

 The Dow Jones industrial average recorded its fourth-biggest point loss ever yesterday, but it was not among the largest percentage declines ever. The worst days for the Dow, in terms of points lost, including the percentage change in value: 

 Oct. 27, 1997 -- 554.26 to 7,161.15, 7.2 per cent 

 Aug. 31, 1998 -- 512.61 to 7,539.07, 6.4 per cent 

 Oct. 19, 1987 -- 508.00 to 1,738.74, 22.6 per cent 

 March 7, 2000 -- 374.47 to 9,796, 3.68 per cent 

 Jan. 4, 2000 -- 359.58 to 10,997.93, 3.2 per cent 

 Aug. 27, 1998 -- 357.36 to 8,165.99, 4.2 per cent 

 Aug. 4, 1998 -- 299.43 to 8,487.31, 3.4 per cent 

 Feb. 18, 2000 -- 295.05 to 10,219.52, 2.8 per cent 

 Jan. 28, 2000 -- 289.15 to 10,738.87, 2.6 per cent 

 Oct. 15, 1999 -- 266.90 to 10,019.71, 2.6 per cent 

 Illustration 

Document glob000020010806dw3800bk5




YESTERDAY'S MARKETS
 Report on Business: Money & Markets 
 Nortel sinks TSE as P&G  warning  spooks investors Blue-chip firm's  profit  caution unnerves market already worried about interest rates 

Bloomberg Business News
446 words
8 March 2000
The Globe and Mail
GLOB
Metro
B15
English
 All material copyright Thomson Canada Limited or its licensors. All rights reserved. 

 Canadian stocks plunged after the Toronto Stock Exchange resumed trading mid-afternoon following a second computer crash yesterday at Canada's biggest equity market. 

 Market heavyweight Nortel Networks pared earlier gains, pacing U.S. declines, to close $8.25 lower at $178. Its majority owner BCE fell $4.15 to $172.35. 

 The Toronto Stock Exchange 300-stock composite index plunged 155.39 points to 9,425.48 after rising as much as 87.13 points in morning trade. The Standard & Poor's-TSE 60-stock index fell 11.41 points to 543.84. 

 In New York,stocks dived for a second day, led by Procter & Gamble, after it issued a profit warning. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average lost 374.47 points or 3.7 per cent to 9,796.03, recouping part of a 418-point decline in late trading. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 35.66 points to 1,355.62. On the Nasdaq Stock Market, the composite index fell 57.01 points to 4,847.84, wiping out a 102-point gain that pushed it above 5,000 for the first time. 

 P&G plunged $27.19 (U.S.) to $60.25, erasing $40-billion in market value. Rivals Colgate-Palmolive fell $6.06 to $46.75 and Clorox slid $3.81 to $36.25. 

 The Dow, composed largely of industrial and financial-services stocks, was also hurt by concern higher U.S. interest rates will erode corporate profits. American Express fell $2.87 to $126.37, and GE,whose GE Capital unit is the largest non-bank finance company, fell $7.31 to $130.12. 

 About 1.3 billion shares changed hands on the New York Stock Exchange as losing issues led gainers 2,061 to 974. 

 In Toronto trading, Cinar lost two-thirds of its value after allegations of misappropriated funds. 

 And the TSE's financial-services index fell for a fourth day as investors shunned interest-rate sensitive bank shares. 

 A total of 211 million shares worth $3.3-billion traded on the TSE in a trading session almost three hours shorter than usual. Over all, losing issues led gainers 652 to 546. 

 In Vancouver, the Canadian Venture Exchange index slumped 46.00 points to 4,224.79. 

 New York odd lots 

 Odd-lot trades made Monday through the New York Stock Exchange: 

 Customer purchases4,775,814 Short sales522,883 Other sales7,255,782 

 Total sales7,778,665 

Document glob000020010806dw3800bk4




 BUSINESS 
 PROFIT WARNING  TRIGGERS DOW'S 374-POINT FALL NASDAQ PLUNGES AFTER TOUCHING 5,000 

 EILEEN GLANTON  The Associated Press 
890 words
8 March 2000
Sun-Sentinel Ft. Lauderdale
FLSS
Broward Metro
1D
English
 (Copyright 2000 by the Sun-Sentinel) 

 Prices plunged Tuesday on Wall Street, sending the Dow Jones industrials down nearly 375 points, after Procter & Gamble shocked investors with a warning that its profits will drop far below expectations. The selling spilled over to usually buoyant high-tech stocks and cut short the Nasdaq composite's first foray past 5,000. 

 The Dow fell 374.47 to close at 9,796.03, its fourth-biggest one- day point drop and its lowest close since last March 31. Procter & Gamble's drop of $27.06 a share to $60.38 accounted for nearly 130 points of the Dow's drop. The blue chips were off more than 400 points in late trading before edging higher just before the close. 

 The Nasdaq, which soared more than 100 points to 5,006.78 in early trading, turned lower amid profit-taking and computer-programmed selling at the 5,000 mark. The Nasdaq finished down 57.01 at 4,847.84. 

 Broader stock indicators also fell sharply. The Standard & Poor's 500 fell 35.66 to 1,355.62, and the Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 6.17 to 595.47. 

 "Get used to it," said Peter van Hengel, director of research for the Noble Financial Group, based in Boca Raton. 

 Volatility in the marketplace is now a normal routine, because of worries about interest rates and oil prices, he said. Yet business is good, and the economy is continuing to show strength, he said. 

 The market's weakness surprised some analysts who had expected stocks to rally on news Tuesday of improved productivity by American workers. Economists consider healthy productivity gains the key to sustaining economic growth without giving rise to inflation. 

 "Higher productivity is an unmitigated good for the economy," said Stan Shipley, senior economist at Merrill Lynch, noting that the rise in productivity came along with a drop in labor costs. 

 Van Hengel said, however, that "Procter & Gamble's profit warning took everyone by surprise. It took basically everything down." 

 Blue-chip stocks sank after consumer products maker Procter & Gamble issued a dramatic warning, saying it expects fiscal third- quarter earnings of 64 or 65 cents per share, well below the 78 cents per share that Wall Street analysts were expecting. The company also said profits would be off for the entire second half of its fiscal year. 

 The company blamed higher costs for oil and pulp, raw materials critical in the manufacture of many of its products. 

 The Dow under 10,000 sparks continued concern, but in the Nasdaq there is still an opportunity to make a tremendous amount of money, said Andrew Horowitz of Horowitz & Co., an investment-management company in Weston. 

 "Investors have a disdain for anything that isn't Internet- related or biotech related," Horowitz said. 

 It used to be when you had this kind of volatility it signaled the end of the market, but not anymore, Horowitz said. "Everyone with access to computers can trade now. They can act on news immediately. It becomes that much more of an efficient market." 

 The P&G news unnerved investors already anxious about profits at blue-chip and industrial companies, especially with most big corporations scheduled to report first-quarter earnings next month. The rest of March is likely to be nerve-racking for Wall Street, because it is during the time of the quarter that companies issue warnings about disappointing profits. 

 Richard McCabe, chief market analyst at Merrill Lynch, said P&G's struggles with rising costs might have sparked worries inflation is beginning to accelerate at the basic levels of the economy. 

 "You need their soap and shampoo no matter what the economy is doing," McCabe said. Yet those companies will be unable to maintain or increase profits if the cost of  materials continues to escalate. 

 Merrill Lynch downgraded its ratings on the entire consumer products sector, depressing stocks including Colgate-Palmolive and Kimberly-Clark. Those companies have not issued any warnings about earnings. 

 Only Microsoft and Exxon Mobil contained the Dow's losses. Microsoft rose $2.25 to $92.88 following a positive report from a Goldman Sachs analyst, while Exxon Mobil rose $8.06 to $81, a beneficiary of the latest rise in oil prices. 

 With the Dow spiraling lower, investors paid little note to the Nasdaq's first trip past 5,000. The technology-dominated index crossed 5,000 just over two months after its first close above 4,000. 

 In a bet that technology stocks are best prepared to thrive even if the Federal Reserve continues raising interest rates this year, investors have been buying those shares at the expense of nearly every other corner of the market. 

 The Nasdaq stocks withstood the selling in the rest of the market Tuesday, but then succumbed during the afternoon. Still, the Nasdaq is up about 19 percent in the year to date, compared with a loss of about 15 percent for the Dow. 

 CHARTS 2; Caption: Staff graphic Chart: (color) Decline continues - Procter & Gamble stock from Jan. 3 to March 7. Dow Jones industrial average from Jan. 3 to March 7. Chart: (color) Productivity - 1st quarter 1998 and 4 quarters of 1999. 

Document flss000020010820dw3800bg3




Stock Markets
 Financial Post Investing 
 New York blue chips continue sell-off: Toronto follows Dow and S&P down late in the day 

Financial Post, with files from news services
1,417 words
8 March 2000
National Post
FINP
National !@SERIES=
D02
English
 (c) Copyright 2000 Financial Post from National Post (formerly The Financial Post Company). All rights reserved. 

 U.S. stocks crumbled yesterday with the Dow Jones industrial average falling to its lowest level in nearly a year after a Procter & Gamble Co. profit warning sparked a sell-off of old economy shares. 

 Even the tech-driven Nasdaq composite index gave in to nervousness and late selling. It slipped 57.01 points, or 1.2%, to end at 4847.84, after spiking to 5006 near the opening. The Dow dropped 374.47 points, or 3.7%, to close at 9796.03. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 composite index lost 35.66 points, or 2.6%, to 1355.62. 

 Also hounding stocks was U.S. Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan's warning on Monday that interest rates will keep going up until the U.S. economy cools down. "I think it's the uncertainty of Greenspan -- how far is the Fed going to go to crush this market -- and P&G validating that the old economy is not worth holding anymore," said Charles Payne, head analyst at Wall Street Strategies. 

 The blue-chip Dow fell deeper into correction zone, now off more than 16% from its Jan. 14 high of 11,722.98. It was dealt a huge blow as shares of P&G (PG/NYSE) plunged $27 7/16 to $60, or more than 31%. (Wall Street issues are priced in U.S. dollars.) 

 Shares of Coca-Cola Co. (KO/NYSE) fell $2 3/16 to $46 11/16 on concern that the world's largest soft-drink maker won't be able to revive sales after two years of disappointing results. Earlier, they dropped to $44 13/16, the lowest intraday price since July, 1996. 

 General Electric Co. (GE/NYSE) lost $7 1/2 to $129 15/16 and Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing (MMM/NYSE) fell $4 3/8 to $82 7/8. 

 The one bright spot was oil giant Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM/NYSE), which soared $8 1/16 to $81 as oil prices rose on supply fears. 

 Early gains in Microsoft Corp. (MSFT/NASDAQ) catapulted the tech index past the 5000 milestone briefly, but the index fell victim to selling pressure late in the day. Microsoft, Nasdaq's most heavily weighted stock closed up $2 1/4 at $92 7/8. Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO/ NASDAQ), which lost $4 1/16 to $132 1/16, weighed on the index. 

 Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was 1.3 billion shares, compared with 1.03 billion on Monday. 

 --- 

 After trading higher for most of the session, the Toronto market took a turn for the worse late in the session on investor fears over higher interest rates. 

 In a troubled session that was marked by trading delays, the Toronto Stock Exchange 300 composite index fell 155.39 points, or 1.6%, to 9425.48 after hitting an intraday high of 9662.06. The blue-chip S&P/TSE 60 benchmark lost 11.41 points, or 2.1%, to 543.84, versus its intraday high of 561.35. 

 For most of the session, Toronto, which is heavily weighted in technology issues BCE Inc. and Nortel Networks Corp. performed strongly despite a sell-off in the Dow and S&P 500. 

 Nine of Toronto's 14 stock groups ended lower, with industrial products dropping 2.6%, and the BCE-dominated utility group giving up 2.2%. Nortel (NT/TSE) fell $8.15 to $178, after trading up more than $10. BCE (BCE/TSE) closed down $4.15 at $172.35. 

 Some stock groups performed well. Gold stocks rose 6.7% as investors looking for a safe haven from equities bid up bullion. Gold gained $4.30 to $292.20 (US) an ounce in New York. Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX/TSE) rose $1.75 to $24.90 and Placer Dome Inc. (PDG/TSE) gained $1.30 to $13.50. 

 Volume on the TSE was 208.9 million shares, compared with 314.9 million on Monday. 

 The Canadian Venture Exchange index fell 46 points, or 1.1%, to 4224.79. 

 CANADIAN STOCKS: 

 Net               % 52W         52W 

 Index                     Close         chg           chg       high low 

 TSE 300             9425.48 -155.39       -1.62 9662.06 6439.74 

 TSE 200               534.00     -3.87       -0.72   547.03   379.86 

 TSE 100               578.77   -10.44       -1.77   595.87   392.56 

 S&P/TSE 60         543.84   -11.41       -2.05   563.90   374.45 

 Toronto 35         501.57     -6.84       -1.35   527.06   358.44 

 CDNX Index       4224.79   -46.00       -1.08 4299.75 1977.32 

 --Yr over       yr-- --Yr to   date-- 

 Index                 net chg     % chg   net chg     % chg 

 TSE 300           +3010.37   +46.93 +1011.73   +12.02 

 TSE 200             +155.40   +41.05     +70.75   +15.27 

 TSE 100             +187.36   +47.87     +59.72   +11.51 

 S&P/TSE 60       +169.39   +45.24     +47.98     +9.68 

 Toronto 35       +142.54   +39.70     +21.41     +4.46 

 CDNX Index             n.a.       n.a. +1887.34   +80.74 

 U.S. STOCKS: 

 Net %           52W         52W 

 Index                                 Close         chg           chg high       low 

 DJIA                               9796.03 -374.47       -3.68 11750.28 9625.21 

 S&P 500                         1355.62   -35.66       -2.56   1478.00 1233.66 

 NYSE Composite             588.57   -15.45       -2.56     663.50 572.38 

 Nasdaq Composite       4847.84   -57.01       -1.16   5006.78 2305.64 

 --Yr over       yr-- --Yr to date-- 

 Index                             net chg     % chg   net chg       % chg 

 DJIA                                 +59.95     +0.62 -1701.09 -14.80 

 S&P 500                           +80.15     +6.28   -113.64 -7.73 

 NYSE Composite             -14.57     -2.42     -61.73       -9.49 

 Nasdaq Composite     +2510.73 +107.43   +778.51     +19.13 

 FINACIAL POST INDEXES: 

 Net               % 52W         52W 

 Index                         Close       chg           chg       high low 

 FPX Growth           1817.23 -11.72       -0.64 1841.64 1469.77 

 FPX Balanced       1696.35   -7.72       -0.45 1713.28 1438.61 

 FPX Income           1571.13   -5.69       -0.36 1839.67 1382.01 

 --Yr over     yr-- --Yr to   date-- 

 Index                     net chg   % chg   net chg     % chg 

 FPX Growth           +353.51 +24.15     +57.03     +3.24 

 FPX Balanced       +262.15 +18.28     +55.49     +3.38 

 FPX Income           +192.99 +14.00     +67.57     +4.49 

 Chart/Graph: Bloomberg / TSE 300 & DJIA: TSE 300, DJIA: (See print copy, pg. D2 for complete chart/graph), Chart/Graph: CANADIAN STOCKS: TSE 300 close: (See print copy, pg. D1, for complete chart/graph.), Chart/Graph: CANADIAN STOCKS: TSE volume: weekly, millions of shares: (See print copy, pg. D1, for complete chart/graph.), Chart/Graph: CANADIAN STOCKS: Last week, this week: (See print copy, pg. D1, for complete chart/graph.), Chart/Graph: CANADIAN STOCKS: daily, millions of shares: (See print copy, pg. D1, for complete chart/graph.), Table: CANADIAN STOCKS: Index, Close, Net chg., % chg., 52W high, 52W low, Year over year net chg., Year over year % chg., Year to date net chg., Year to date % chg.: (Table ran on pg. D1): (Online), Chart/Graph: U.S. STOCKS: DJ Industrial Average close: (See print copy, pg. D1, for complete graph.), Chart/Graph: U.S. STOCKS: NYSE volume: weekly, millions of shares: (See print copy, pg. D1, for complete graph.), Chart/Graph: U.S. STOCKS: Last week, this week: (See print copy, pg. D1, for complete graph.), Chart/Graph: U.S. STOCKS: daily, millions of shares: (See print copy, pg. D1, for complete graph.), Table: U.S. STOCKS: Index, Close, Net chg., % chg., 52W high, 52W low, Year over year net chg., Year over year % chg., Year to date net chg., Year to date % chg.: (Table ran on pg. D1) (Online), Chart/Graph: FINANCIAL POST INDEXES: Balanced: (See print copy, pg. D1, for complete graph.), Chart/Graph: FINANCIAL POST INDEXES: Last week, this week: (See print copy, pg. D1, for complete graph.), Table: FINANCIAL POST INDEXES: Index, close, Net chg., % chg., 52W high, 52W low, Year over year net chg., Year over year % chg., Year to date net chg., Year to date % chg.: (Table ran on pg. D1): (Online) 

Document finp000020010805dw38005qh




International Stocks
 Financial Post Investing 
 International Stocks 

Reuters
505 words
8 March 2000
National Post
FINP
National !@SERIES=
D02
English
 (c) Copyright 2000 Financial Post from National Post (formerly The Financial Post Company). All rights reserved. 

 Asharp fall on Wall Street dragged most European stocks lower yesterday, even though news of the possible merger of two big German banks triggered some strong gains for European bank shares. Yet another upward spiral in oil prices also boosted the share prices of major oil companies. On Wall Street, a profit warning from consumer products giant Procter & Gamble sent the Dow Jones industrial average tumbling 2% by the time European markets closed. P&G warned it would not meet earnings expectations for the third quarter or full year due to high costs. P&G's Anglo-Dutch rival Unilever immediately slipped 11% amid worries it would suffer the same rising cost base. It closed more than 8% lower. The pan-European Eurotop index of 300 shares ended down 0.6% at 1636.27 and the narrower Euro STOXX index of 50 blue-chip euro zone shares lost 0.7% to 5426.36. Among leading blue-chip bourse indexes, London's FTSE 100 gave up 1.5% and Paris's CAC was 1.6% lower. 

  Against the tide, Frankfurt's Dax jumped 1.1%. It was animated after Deutsche Bank and Dresdner Bank said they were at an advanced stage of co-operation talks, which sources said could lead to the creation of the world's largest bank with assets of over $1.2-trillion (US). Dresdner soared 20% and Deutsche gained 9%. Shares in insurer Allianz climbed 12% after banking sources said the Dresdner-Deutsche plans involved the spin-off of their branch retail businesses to Allianz. Shares in oil majors were also in demand on the back of the latest rise in oil prices, which saw the price of April Brent crude oil futures on the International Petroleum Exchange in London race to fresh nine-year highs above $30 (US) a barrel. Shares in BP Amoco rose 2.3% and Shell Transport 4.7%, and in Paris TotalFina shares were up 2%. Asian stock markets were slightly rattled following sharp falls on U.S. markets overnight but losses were modest and Japanese shares staged a late rally to close 0.8% higher after a volatile session. 

 London: Britain's FTSE 100 index closed at 6466.5, down 101.3 points or 1.5%. 

 Frankfurt: Germany's Dax index ended at 8064.97, up 89.19 points or 1.1%. 

 Hong Kong: The Hang Seng index reversed course in the afternoon, adding 106.6 points, or 0.6%, to end at a record close of 17,865.36 on buying in blue-chip China plays. 

 Tokyo: Japanese stocks ended firmer after an erratic session marked by wide swings in high-tech heavyweights such as Sony and Softbank. The benchmark Nikkei 225 average ended up 147.89 points, or 0.8%, at 19,944.24. 

 Sydney: The Australian share market shrugged off early losses to post its fifth successive record high. The all ordinaries index rose 18.9 points, or 0.6%, to 3251. 

Document finp000020010805dw38005qf




 Business 
 DOWNY IT GOES! P&G PROFIT MISS SPOOKS MARKET 

 By BETH PISKORA 
545 words
8 March 2000
New York Post
NYPO
38
English
 Copyright (c) 2000, N.Y.P. Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved. 

 One big profit warning was all it took to take the steam out of the stock market. 

 When Procter & Gamble forecast an earnings shortfall early yesterday, investors panicked, driving the Dow Jones industrial average to its fourth-biggest point loss ever. 

 The Dow plummeted 374.47, or 3.68 percent, to 9,796.03 yesterday -- with about half of its losses coming from P&G. 

 The maker of household goods such as Downy tissue and Pampers said yesterday that analyst forecasts for quarterly profit growth was too optimistic, and that the company would instead post declining earnings. 

 P&G plunged $27.43, or 31 percent, to $61, as of the New York Stock Exchange's 4 p.m. close. 

 Analysts said they had been betrayed by the company's top management, who had been putting out strong signals of profit growth until yesterday. In fact, P&G officials participated in a Merrill Lynch-sponsored conference on consumer stocks last week and told analysts that the quarter was on track. 

 P&G's tumble yesterday accounted for 136 points of the Dow's drop. 

 Fears that other prominent companies may also miss profit forecasts turned investor sentiment negative on other major market indices. The S&P 500 index fell 35.66 to 1,355.62, and the technology-packed Nasdaq composite index, which fell 57.01 to 4,847.84. 

 "The Nasdaq index, along with the Dow, is likely to be at the start of a pullback that could amount to an additional 10 to 15 percent correction for the index," said Bob Dickey, a strategist at Dain Rauscher. 

 "We are seeing a shift in the bullish enthusiasm into more of a profit-taking mode. Some further pressure is likely now over the next several days, which could stretch into a few weeks." 

 Dickey also said the recent volatility in the markets is set to continue. 

 "The pattern of a much more choppy market is continuing for the year 2000, and this more difficult environment could last most of the year, or at least as long as interest rates have an upward threat," he said. 

 Still, few top Wall Street gurus are willing to label the market activity as the beginning of a bear market. Instead, they say, investors are turning away from the technology names and large-cap stocks that have for so long led the market higher and replacing them with previously out-of-favor stocks. 

 "Tech may not be exhausted, but it has realized most of its gains," said Rick Jaindrain, chief investment officer for Banc One Investment Advisors. 

 "Looking forward, when the Federal Reserve finishes tightening interest rates, it could be a catalyst for a change in leadership. We may already be seeing a preview of it, with more stocks hitting new highs than new lows." 

 Indeed, even during yesterday's sell-off, 747 stocks moved to new highs, while only 486 hit new lows. 

 "When the market rotates, we think we could see financials move," said Jaindrain. 

 Among the stocks hitting new highs yesterday were Imperial Bancorp, up 25 cents to $27.50, and Siebel Systems, up $9.56 to $161. 

Document nypo000020010809dw38002rc


 Business 
 Nightly Business Report 

 Paul Kangas, Susie Gharib 
4,131 words
8 March 2000
23:30
Nightly Business Report
NBR
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 KANGAS: A green light on Wall Street today, and this time both the blue chips and the high techs drive ahead at the same speed. The Dow gains 60 points and the NASDAQ Index closes up about 50 points. Good evening. I`m Paul Kangas in Miami. GHARIB: And I`m Susie Gharib in New York City. A down day for the price of oil. We`ll tell you the latest outlook for the prices at the pump. Then, the latest in fiber optics. We have a preview of the technology that you`ll be using in the future when you surf the Web. 

 GHARIB: Good evening, everyone. One day after that big sell-off on Wall Street, stocks bounced back a bit today. The Dow advanced 60 points, the NASDAQ, which added about 50, is only a few points away from a new record high. But as Suzanne Pratt reports, Wall Street pros say it`s still too soon to say that the stock market correction is over. 

 SUZANNE PRATT, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: Wall Street got just what it was hoping for today: some desperately needed relief. After yesterday`s steep sell-off in the Dow, most of the major stock indexes moved higher. 

 ASH RAJAN, SENIOR MARKET ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: I think there were some bottom pickers even in the old world names, which is very reassuring for me. I saw the drug stocks come back a little today for no apparent reason other than just valuations, which is very healthy. 

 PRATT: Despite today`s good health, experts say the market is by no means cured. Investors are still nervous about higher oil prices, higher interest rates and whether corporate profits will be high enough. It was a profitwarning from Procter & Gamble that triggered yesterday`s plunge in the Dow. Experts say the red flag from P&G does raise questions about earnings from other companies. But most agree it`s too early to conclude that P&G`s problems suggests a trend. In fact, according to First Call, which tracks earnings, Wall Street expects profits for S&P 500 firms to grow a robust 18 percent in the first quarter and only slightly less in the second quarter. 

 CHUCK HILL, DIRECTOR OF RESEARCH, FIRST CALL: The numbers for the first and second quarter are pretty much in the bag. I mean, these two factors of oil prices and interest rates are going to really impact the second half if we get changes or don`t get them, whichever the case may be that we need. 

 PRATT: First quarter earnings reports don`t flood Wall Street until mid-April. Between now and then, experts say the Dow will languish near current levels while the NASDAQ could see volatility with an upward bias. If that`s true, what should investors own? 

 RAJAN: My answer to that question is semiconductors, wireless, software, middleware, e-commerce, biotechnology. That`s it. Yes, it seems like a narrow list, but that`s where the money is and that`s what`s driving these names. 

 PRATT: Experts say in the coming weeks the mood swings will most likely continue on Wall Street. That could mean more trading days like today and hopefully few or none like yesterday. Suzanne Pratt, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, New York. 

 KANGAS: Stocks opened on a mixed note this morning with Wall Street`s blue chips extending yesterday`s sharp 374-point drop in the Dow Industrial Average as the Index fell another 49 points by 10:30 a.m. But the tech-laden NASDAQ Index jumped over 40 points at the outset of trading and then quickly faded on a pickup in profit-taking, by 11:00 a.m., it was down a hefty 102 points. For the rest of the morning, NASDAQ continued to feel the sting of profit takers while many of the fallen angel blue chips began to attract buyers who felt there were some bargains among these recently hard-hit stalwarts. Halfway through the noon hour, the Industrial Average moved to a 71-point gain, but the NASDAQ Index was still down about 30 points. A sizable drop in the price of oil helped the blue chips maintain their gains in afternoon trading, and the high techs improved markedly. The Dow Industrial Average closed with a gain of 60.50 points exactly at 9856.53. In today`s 187-point trading range, the Dow closed down 62 points from the best level of the session, up 124 3/4 points from the low of the day. The NASDAQ Composite resumed its upward trek, up 49.42 points at 4897.26. In its 201-point trading range, the Composite settled 26 points below its best level of the day. Big board volume down about 106 million shares from yesterday, but still well over a billion. And up volume exceeded down volume by a 6 to 5 margin. 

 The Dow Transports Index up nearly 89 points. Big day there-price of oil helped the airlines. 

 Utilities however, down over 3 1/2 points. Big drop! 

 Closing Tick just slightly bullish at +256. 

 Standard & Poor`s 500 up just over 11 points. 

 A gain of 7.61 in the S&P 100. 

 The MidCap 400 down 3 1/2 points. 

 CRB Bridge Futures Price Index down sharply-2.05. 

 New York Stock Exchange Composite Index up 2 2/3. 

 Nearly a 1 point rise in the Value Line Index. 

 Russell2000 Small Cap lost just over 3/4 of a point. 

 But the broadly based Wilshire 5000 up almost 84 points. 

 Bond prices moved in a narrowly mixed range today, reflecting a mixed news background. The Federal Reserve`s latest Beige Book survey on the economy showed labor markets continue to be tight and growth still strong especially in the consumer electronics and home furnishings sectors. The upturn in stock prices also was a slight negative because it deprived bonds of safe haven buying. The drop in oil prices, however, was the main positive factor helping tax free and corporates hold steady on the day, but Treasuries mostly lower. 

 A 1/32 drop in the 5-year notes 

 Same drop in the 10-year notes. 

 But the Bellwether 30-year bond managed to gain 3/32. 

 And the Lehman Brothers Long-Term Treasury Bond Index down just over 3 points. A mixed market indeed. 

 I`ll be back shortly to show you where the action was on Wall Street today. Susie. 

 GHARIB: Well, as you said, Paul, a busy day in the oil pits. April crude futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange fell almost $3 today from yesterday`s 10 year high. The sell-off came on word that Saudi Arabia and Iran now agree it`s necessary to cool off red hot oil prices. Also today, Energy Secretary Bill Richardson is now predicting that gas prices won`t hit $2 a gallon if OPEC raises production at its meeting on March 27th. All this comes as Americans deal with sky high gas prices, including, as Diane Estabrook explains, some big name retailers. 

 DIANE EASTABROOK, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: Anyone shipping with Yellow Corporation (YELL) is currently paying a 4 percent fuel surcharge. The Kansas City based trucking company reinstated the surcharge last summer when diesel fuel prices hit $1.10 a gallon after abandoning it a few years ago. Yellow says retailers have been hit especially hard. 

 WILLIAM ZOLLARS, CHAIRMAN & CEO, YELLOW CORPORATION: If you take a customer like Wal-Mart (WMT), for example, you can imagine how many shipments are going out every day from Wal-Mart. So it can be literally thousands and thousands of shipments for each one of those customers. 

 EASTABROOK: Wal-Mart admits transportation costs are becoming a major concern, so much so the giant retailer says it may not be able to offer deeper discounts to its customers this year if fuel prices keep heading north. Even retailers that own their own trucks like Kmart are feeling the pinch of higher fuel prices. Kmart says it anticipated higher diesel prices this year and budgeted for them. But the company now fears its budget may be blown if those prices keep rising. Some analysts predict retailers that are already paying more for labor and inventory will mark up prices on merchandise if fuel prices remain high. So far consumers have been willing to spend more because both the economy and the job market have been strong. But analysts wonder how long consumers will stay in that buying mood, especially if rising gas prices are taking a bigger bite out of their own budgets. 

 BOB BUCHANAN, RETAIL ANALYST, A.G. EDWARDS: I think that retailers have been playing a quiet little game of trying to raise prices as much as they can and people have been going along with it. But I think that`s a that there`s a constellation of forces here and to the extent the perception is that the overall economy is slowing, I think people will be more sensitive to those price increases. 

 EASTABROOK: At this point, Buchanan doesn`t think higher fuel prices will impact retailers` earnings this quarter. But subsequent quarters could take a hit if prices at the pumps continue to climb. Diane Eastabrook, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, Chicago. 

 KANGAS: The high price of oil is also having a big impact on the Bridge Commodity Research Bureau Index. Joining me now from Chicago to take a closer look at that is Bridge CRB Managing Director Bob Hafer. And welcome back to NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, Bob. 

 BOB HAFER, MANAGING DIRECTOR, BRIDGE CRB: Good evening, Paul. 

 KANGAS: We have tonight two charts depicting the progress since late December of `98, the CRB Index and the price of oil. And I see a rather striking similarity, don`t you? 

 HAFER: I do, indeed. Of course the CRB represents 17 commodities while crude oil is just by itself. 

 KANGAS: How big an impact on the CRB is the price of oil? 

 HAFER: Interestingly, Paul, we took the CRB Index and we put the crude oil price back to where it was at the beginning of `99 and what we found is that the entire rise since that date has been attributable to crude oil. 

 KANGAS: Well, everybody`s hoping to see it level off and then go down, and Secretary of Energy Richardson today seemed to say, well, he predicted no $2 per gallon gasoline. Do you believe that? 

 HAFER: Well, I think that that`s a little bit premature, Paul. We`re sitting today with gasoline inventories 14 percent below where they were a year ago and 9 percent below the five year average with the peak driving season still three or four months off and crude oil prices at these high levels, I think it`s premature to say that gasoline prices have topped. 

 KANGAS: How about the non-OPEC countries? Can they pump up enough production to help us out? 

 HAFER: The non-OPEC countries have actually pulled back on their production, as we have had here in the U.S., due to the very low crude oil prices that existed just a year and a half ago. 

 KANGAS: Well, do you think that OPEC, on the 27th of this month, actually will ramp up production sufficiently to stabilize prices, as Secretary Richardson indicated? 

 HAFER: There`s little doubt that they will. The U.S. has put enough pressure on Saudi Arabia that we think we`ll see an increase in the daily production of 1 1/2 million to maybe 2 million barrels a day. 

 KANGAS: And maybe a little cheating top of that? 

 HAFER: Well, that may be an opportunity for the OPEC countries, who`ve been all in line on these production cuts, to maybe turn on the spigots even a little bit more and try and grab some revenue. 

 KANGAS: All right, thank you very much. Appreciate it, Bob. 

 HAFER: My pleasure, Paul. 

 KANGAS: My guest, Bob Hafer, Managing Director of the Commodity Research Bureau at Bridge. Well, certainly an up day on Wall Street but not near enough to recover yesterday`s damage, up 60 1/2 on the Dow. The advancing and declining ratio was actually negative by 15 to 14. Only 49 new highs for the year, 263 new lows. 

 Procter and Gamble (PG) topped the active list for the second day running today on 26.3 million shares and after dropping 27 points or 31 percent yesterday on that early earnings warning, down another 2 3/8. So the sellers still don`t think it`s a buy, obviously. 

 Pfizer (PFE), strong drug group today, up nearly 2 points. 

 And then Bristol Myers (BMY) leading the pack higher, up 5 1/8. PaineWebber upgraded BMY from "attractive" to "buy" and has a $65 a share target for Bristol. 

 Compaq Computer (CPQ) lost 1/8. 

 While Lucent Technologies (LU) gained 1/8 and it was fifth in big board volume. 

 America Online (AOL) down 1 1/8. 

 Qwest Communications (Q) dropped 2 1/2. The "New York Times" today said merger talks with Deutsche Telekom (DT) are virtually over. But Qwest says it`s still talking with another telecom company. 

 Tyco International (TYC) had a good day, rising 2 points. 

 And Merck (MRK) and that strong drug group up 2 11/16. 

 Philip Morris (MO), 10th in volume, down 3/16. 

 BP Amoco (BPA) rose 2 3/8 on news that the company`s joint venture with Shell, that`s called Altura Energy Limited, will be sold for $3.6 billion to Occidental Petroleum (OXY). 

 FedEx (FDX), a 2 point gain today after Goldman Sachs upgraded it from "market perform" to an "outperformer." 

 Then Johnson and Johnson (JNJ) in that strong drug group was the best point size gainer in the Dow Industrial Average. 

 Kohls (KSS), the big department store chain, up 4 9/16. Fourth quarter earnings nicely higher, $0.72 up from $0.58 last year, sales up 25 percent. Morgan Stanley increased earnings estimates. 

 Schering Plough (SGP) rising 3 1/4 after PaineWebber upgraded it from "attractive" to "buy." 

 And Tektronix (TEK) down 7 3/4, that`s simple profit taking. It began the year at 38 7/8 and recently was near 70. 

 Jackpot Enterprises (J), the star percentage gainer of the day, up 7 1/4. The company`s getting out of the gambling business and will convert into a Web incubator company, setting up business to business ventures on the Internet. It`s going to change its name to JNet Technologies. What`s in a name? Seven and a quarter points this day. 

 Williams Sonoma (WSM) recovering 4 9/16. Of course, Monday it tumbled 12 points when the company warned about fourth quarter earnings. 

 Fluor Corp. (FLR) up 4 3/8. The company and IBM (IBM) are planning to create a business to business Internet market offering, commercial building products and things like that. 

 Payless Shoesource Incorporated (PSS) up 6 5/8. The company is increasing its earnings growth target for this year from 15 to 20 percent and it`s also going to buy back up to 25 percent of its stock at a Dutch auction and the price will be anywhere between $48 and $53 a share. 

 US Airways Group (U) leading that group higher, up 3 9/16, the drop in oil prices obviously helping the airlines take off. 

 And then Transocean Sedco Forax (RIG) down 5 5/8. Oil dropped today, as you know, and Donaldson Lufkin downgraded this stock from "buy" to just "market perform." 

 NASDAQ trading, nearly a 49 1/2 point gain in the Index. But trading volume down about 140 million shares from yesterday. Eighteen stocks higher for every 22 lower. 

 JDS Uniphase (JDSU) topped the active list, down 11 3/4, some of that profit taking there. 

 But Microsoft (MSFT) up 2 11/16. Alex Brown Brokerage issued a "buy." 

 Cisco Systems (CSCO) up 5/16. 

 Intel (INTC) was down 13/16. 

 Oracle (ORCL) rose 8 3/16 and the story here, the company`s linking up with Chevron (CHV) and Wal-Mart to create a full service Internet marketplace for convenience stores. 

 Verisign (VRSN) recovering 3 points of a 47 point drop yesterday when the company announced it`ll be buying out Network Solutions (NSOL). 

 Ariba (ARBA) up 6 1/2 points. The company IBM and I2 Incorporated (ITWO) are in a business to business alliance. 

 Dell Computer (DELL) up 1 3/16. 

 Yahoo! (YHOO) rose 5 5/8. 

 Finally, Applied Materials (AMAT) down 4 3/4. 

 A new issue, Crayfish (CRFH) clawed its way to a 101 1/2 point gain. It`s a Japanese e-mail services provider, 4.3 million ADRs offered at 24 1/2. The stock opened at 96 and had a high of 166. 

 All American Semiconductor (SEMI) up nearly 6 points. Fourth quarter earnings of $0.22 versus a loss of $0.26 last year. 

 And Smith Mirco Software (SMSI) up 4 5/16. The company introduced its new wireless Internet phone technology and apparently investors liked it. 

 The American Exchange Index down just over 15 1/2 points. It has a lot of oil stocks on it, of course. 

 Baycorp Holdings (MWH) up over 10 points. Williams Companies will take a stake in this company`s Houston Street Exchange Unit, which trades oil. 

 And Cognitronics (CGN) down 8 3/4, fourth quarter earnings sharply lower, $0.11 versus $0.20 last year. Sales dropped 19 percent. 

 And finally, the Index Shares all on the plus side, especially the Qs. 

 That`s the Wall Street Wrap Up. Susie? 

 GHARIB: Paul, fiber optic technology helps power the Internet and that`s given star status to the companies that specialize in the industry. This week, they`re showing off their next generation of fiber technology at a conference in Baltimore. We sent Stephanie Woods to scope it out. 

 STEPHANIE WOODS, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: Fiber optic cables are the backbone of the Internet, which is why 475 firms gathered at this conference to demonstrate their next generation technology. Agilent (A) used the setting to announce a new optical switching platform that promises to increase the speed of telecommunications networks. 

 JOHN O`ROURKE, GENERAL MANAGER, AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES: Consumers won`t see this directly, but they will see the effects by enabling the carriers to rearrange their networks, grow their networks on demand in a way that keeps up with the traffic demands of the Internet. 

 WOODS: Qtera unveiled its technology that sends data long distances without having to boost the signal. 

 FAHRI DINER, PRESIDENT & FOUNDER, QTERA: The value of the product that we`ve introduced today brings to the table is elimination of a lot of equipment from the network, which reduces the cost of bandwidth. 

 WOODS: NorTel (NT) saw value in Qtera even though it has yet to sell a product. NorTel paid $3.75 billion in December to buy Qtera. NorTel saw it as a way to keep pace with the record demand for network services. 

 DON SMITH, PRESIDENT OF OPTICAL INTERNET, NORTEL NETWORK: The Internet is driving huge scale, unprecedented number of users, massive growths in e-commerce, etc., etc. So this is about how do you build networks that keep up with that demand that you and I are creating. 

 WOODS: Investor euphoria for growth stocks has pushed many of these companies` shares higher. The lead JDS Uniphase, the leading optical component supplier, is up 850 percent in the past year. NorTel is up 288 percent over the same time and Agilent is up fivefold since its IPO in November. 

 GIRI DEVULAPALLY, ANALYST, T. ROWE PRICE: If you put the Internet together and the bandwidth explosion that`s taking place, what underpins that is the technology of fiber optics. So the fundamentals are clearly strong and they`re exploding right now. 

 WOODS: Technology that speeds up the Internet and makes it more reliable is the promise of many of the companies showing their wares here. Analysts expect the industry will do well as long as the companies can deliver. Stephanie Woods, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT , Baltimore, Maryland. 

 KANGAS: Tomorrow, meet one of the biggest moguls in the new media marketplace. 

 GHARIB: The nation`s largest rail customer wants to derail plans for future railroad mergers. United Parcel Service (UPS) asked government regulators today for a two year moratorium on any new mergers between railroad companies. UPS says that recent mega mergers have failed to deliver cheaper rates and caused extended service disruptions. Investors apparently agree. UPS stock surged more than 4 1/2 points to 54 1/2. 

 KANGAS: U.S. exchanges aren`t the only ones feeling the heat of the new economy. London`s FOTSI 100 Index had a major reworking today, its biggest shakeup since its launching in 1982. Several Internet, telecom and biotechnology stocks replaced old economy stocks like brewers, utilities and building materials companies. Placement on the closely watched FOTSI guarantees the newcomers a following by tracking funds and financial institutions. 

 GHARIB : In the money file tonight, booming biotechs. Terry Savage says that if you`re considering buying biotech stocks or funds, do your homework first. 

 TERRY SAVAGE, AUTHOR, "THE SAVAGE TRUTH ON MONEY": Yes, the biotech sector is hot. Biotech sector funds have year to date gains of more than 50 percent, leading the entire tech sector. And why not? Biotech companies show as much promise to change our lives as the Internet does. Think about it. Gene therapies, new drugs and new tests could cure or prevent dreaded diseases and prolong life expectancies. Now surely there`s more potential impact in this sector than shopping on line or even cutting costs from a corporate supply chain. So is that what the soaring biotech stocks are telling us? Well, partly. Some of the gains come on reports of successful FDA trial tests or drug and chemical entity approvals. FDA approvals last year ran at twice the rate of the previous year, after several slow years. But a big part of what`s going on in these stocks is a simple matter of supply and demand, demand not for the cures and corrective measures these companies produce, but investor demand for the shares themselves. Just as with Internet stocks, there`s a relative scarcity of good companies to invest in, compared with all the money pouring into the sector. According to the California Technology Stock Letter, the entire market cap of the biotech sector is only $280 billion and that`s just twice the market valuation of one big pharmaceutical company, Merck (MRK). So take a deep breath and slow down your pulse. Biotech companies can be big winners in two ways. They could save your life or your retirement portfolio. I`m Terry Savage. 

 KANGAS: Recapping today`s market action, a day on the upside. The Dow gained 60 points and the NASDAQ Index closed up about 50. And please join us at our World Wide Web site, NBR.com, or on America Online, keyword: NBR. 

 GHARIB: And that`s NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT for Wednesday, March 8th. And as we`ve been telling you all week, we want to remind you this is the time of year your public television station seeks viewer support. 

 KANGAS: Support that makes programs like NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT possible. 

 GHARIB: So, thank you for joining us this evening. I`m Susie Gharib. Good night, everyone. And good night to you, Paul. 

 KANGAS: Good night, Susie. I`m Paul Kangas, wishing all of you the best of good buys. 

 Nightly Business Report transcripts are available on-line post-broadcast. The program is transcribed by FDCH. Updates may be posted at a later date. 

 The views of our guests and commentators are their own and do not necessarily represent the views of Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. Nightly Business Report, or WPBT. 

 Information presented on Nightly Business Report is not and should not be considered as investment advice. 

 c2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. 

 END 

 TO PURCHASE A VIDEOTAPE OF THIS PIECE, PLEASE CALL  888-266-3601 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT.  THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc.   Formatting and transcription copyright 2000 eMediaMillWorks, Inc.   (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No quotes from the materials contained herein may be used in any media without attribution to Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc.  This transcript may not be copied or resold in any media. 

Document nbr0000020010808dw380001c


 Dow Thrown for 374-Point Loss on Fears about Company Profits 

 Bill Deener 
1,080 words
8 March 2000
Texas
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 The stock market, already a bit wobbly, was slammed to the floor Tuesday as investors were unnerved by indications that the ability of American companies to generate profits may be faltering. 

 The benchmark Dow Jones industrial average plunged 3.9 percent, shedding 374.47 points to close at 9,796.03 -- its fourth-largest point loss ever. At one point during the day, the Dow was off more than 400 points. 

 The culprit for the sell-off was an earnings shortfall announced by Procter & Gamble Co. 

 "Because P&G is viewed as such a well-run company, Wall Street views this as not just a problem for Procter, but a problem for a lot of companies," said Bill Meehan, chief market analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. 

 All but three of the 30 stocks in the Dow closed down for the day. The loss left the index of blue-chip stocks down 14.8 percent so far in 2000. Coupled with Monday's 196-point swoon, it also raised the specter of a full-blown bear market, which Wall Street defines as a 20 percent drop in the stock market. The Dow has lost 16.4 percent of its value since hitting its all-time high of 11,723 on Jan. 14. 

 The damage on Wall Street wasn't confined to the Dow on Tuesday. The Standard & Poor's 500 index dropped 35.66 points, or 2.6 percent, closing at 1,355.62. The S&P 500 is down 7.7 percent so far this year and from its all-time high of 1,469.25, achieved on Dec. 31. 

 Tuesday's sell-off also spread to the technology sector, which for a long time has appeared invulnerable. The Nasdaq composite index, which is loaded with technology stocks and has been immune to much of this year's market turmoil, dropped 57.05 points -- or 1.2 percent --to close at 4,847.8. The Nasdaq composite is still up 19 percent this year. 

 The Nasdaq actually climbed above 5,000 for the first time Tuesday before falling back late in the day. And after last year's 86 percent return in the Nasdaq, investors in tech stocks aren't exactly panicking. 

 "I'm so far ahead, I could lose a lot of money and still be ahead," said Luke Barber, a philosophy professor at Richland College. "People who are complaining, I don't know what to tell them." 

 Mr. Barber said he checks his investment performance regularly but likens it to scanning the daily sports scores -- with "a little more personal interest," but "not any stress at all." 

 Another local investor, Lyndon James of Mesquite, said the market "is so volatile that you really can't get too excited about that sort of thing." 

 Tuesday's downturn surprised analysts who were expecting stocks to rally on news of improved productivity by American workers. But the Dow drifted lower almost from the opening bell, then fell off a cliff about 9:30 a.m. after an analyst at Merrill Lynch & Co. said Procter & Gamble's earnings problems had implications for other consumer-products companies. 

 P&G, the largest U.S. maker of household goods and owner of brands such as Tide detergent and Crest toothpaste, said its third-quarter earnings will fall 10 percent from a year ago. 

 The company attributed the drop to higher pulp costs and greater competition in Latin America. It also blamed costs associated with high gasoline prices -- a bad omen for other areas of the U.S. economy. 

 "They had forecast a gain of 7 percent, so they just got slaughtered," said Alan Skrainka, market strategist at Edward Jones & Co. "The implication is that if they are suffering, then everyone else will, too." 

 Shares of P&G plummeted 29 percent, falling $25.44 a share to $62 and accounting for nearly 130 points of the Dow's decline. Shares of other household-product companies, such as Colgate-Palmolive Co. and Clorox Co. also suffered. Colgate dropped $6.06 a share to $46.75, and Clorox was off $3.81 to $36.25. 

 Merrill Lynch downgraded its ratings of the entire consumer-products sector. Only Microsoft Corp., Irving-based Exxon Mobil Corp. and United Technologies Corp. contained the Dow's losses. Microsoft rose $2.25 to $92.88 a share, while Exxon Mobil, boosted by another sharp rise in oil prices, rose $8.06 to $81. 

 Mr. Meehan said P&G's profit warning was especially jarring to investors in the so-called Old Economy stocks of the Dow. Those include stocks such as Coca-Cola Co., Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Wells Fargo & Co., which have all dropped 20 percent to 30 percent from their yearly highs. 

 The hope was that higher productivity from the increased use of technology would get these companies back on track despite rising interest rates, Mr. Meehan said. The Federal Reserve has raised short-term interest rates four times in the last year in an effort to slow the U.S. economy. 

 "P&G's problems makes one wonder about this so-called productivity miracle," Mr. Meehan said. "This company has spent a lot on technology to better manage their company, and yet they are not going to make their earnings numbers. This is about the worst thing that could happen for the Old Economy stocks." 

 However, Mr. Skrainka said he believes investors may have overreacted to problems that may be specific to P&G. "What do higher paper prices have to do with Colgate or McDonalds?" Mr. Skrainka said, naming two prominent consumer-goods companies whose stocks were also hammered Tuesday. 

 Other analysts agreed, questioning whether investors were swept up in a selling frenzy. 

 Henry Herrman, chief investment officer at Waddell & Reed in Overland Park, Kan., called Tuesday's sell-off an "irrational selling of Dow stocks." 

 "It seems like you are throwing the baby out with the bath water," Mr. Herrman said. "P&G has a disappointing quarter and you sell Colgate? Come on. 

 "This is just indicative of a lot of emotionalism in the market." 

 Declining issues on the New York Stock Exchange outnumbered those that rose by a 2-to-1 margin Tuesday. Volume totaled 1.61 billion shares. 

 Staff writer Jennifer Files contributed to this report. 

Document krtbn00020010807dw3800jrn




 U.S. stocks rebound, bonds weaker as oil prices rise. 

911 words
8 March 2000
23:18
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, March 8 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks closed higher on Wednesday, recovering slightly from Tuesday's sell-off of "old economy" stocks, but bonds fell as investors continued to worry about rising oil prices and interest rates. 

 The yen fell against the euro and the dollar after Japan's central bank sold its own currency to help smooth the yen's recent rapid ascent. 

 Oil futures prices retreated considerably from new nine-year highs over $34 a barrel set Tuesday, with the leading contract in New York ending Wednesday's regular session just above $31. 

 In a marked turnaround, Wednesday's stock market leaders were the same pharmaceuticals, retailers and other old-line companies, which on Tuesday had yanked the Dow Jones industrial average down to its lowest level in nearly a year. 

 "I think investors have recognised that there is good value in strongly franchised companies in the old economy stocks," said Alan Skrainka, chief market strategist at Edward Jones in St. Louis. "We are not all going to be sitting around in the dark - cold, hungry and naked - surfing the Internet. You still need Johnson & Johnson. You still need the Gap. You still need McDonald's." 

 The Dow climbed 60.50 points, or 0.62 percent, to 9,856.53, a day after the 30-stock index fell to nearly its lowest level since March 31, 1999. 

 The catalyst for the selling frenzy had been a profit warning from consumer products giant Procter & Gamble Inc., which on Wednesday slipped another 2-3/8 to 57-5/8. 

 Pharmaceuticals were the big winners in the Dow, with Merck & Co. up 2-11/16 to 56-5/8 and Johnson & Johnson up 4 at 71 as investors rotated into the mainstream drug stocks from the pricier biotechnology sector. 

 Some "new economy" stocks saw a rare stumble, with recent market darlings like semiconductors and biotechnology closing lower. But the Nasdaq composite index finished with respectable gains after being in the red. 

 The Nasdaq advanced 49.42 points, or 1.02 percent, to 4,897.26, but was well off the magic 5,000 mark that it hit for the first time on Tuesday. The tech-loaded index at the end of the session on Tuesday was also swept into the selling frenzy. 

 "My sense is yesterday's ugliness was very much an overreaction," said Phil Orlando, chief investment officer of Value Line's Asset Management division. "Procter & Gamble, obviously, is a big name and it was a disappointing bit of guidance from management. But I'm not sure that it should have taken every stock in the western hemisphere down with it." 

 "I think today we're seeing some cooler heads prevailing and investors are sifting through the rubble of yesterday's carnage and trying to pick out some undervalued gems," Orlando said. 

 Helping the bounce-back was the return of oil futures to levels closer to $30 a barrel after Tuesday's surge to nine-year highs approaching $35. The decline came after news that there were large builds in U.S. crude and gasoline inventories and comments from OPEC powers Saudi Arabia and Iran, who sounded more open to boosting oil output. 

 The Federal Reserve has added soaring oil prices to its growing list of inflation concerns, underscoring expectations on Wall Street that further interest rate hikes are imminent. 

 In other economic news, the Fed's latest Beige Book, a periodic survey of regional economic conditions, reported continued strong growth in late January and February and a very tight job market, which was driving up wages. 

 The Fed's rate-setting committee next meets on March 21 to decide whether to raise borrowing costs. 

 "The lower oil prices have to be a plus, because they mitigate some of the concerns out there about inflation," said Jack Shaughnessy, chief investment strategist at Advest. 

 Banks were under pressure after Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan said in a speech in Texas that he was worried that many U.S. banks seemed to think the current good economic times will last forever, causing them to get excessively lax in their lending. 

 The 30-year U.S. Treasury bond was down 7/32, or $2.1875 on each $1,000 of face value. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 6.16 percent from Tuesday's close of 6.15 percent. 

 The euro rose to 96.05 cents in late trading from 95.96 cents late Tuesday. The dollar jumped to 107.21 yen from 106.07 yen. 

 On the New York Mercantile Exchange, April crude oil slid $2.87 to settle at $31.26 a barrel. Earlier Wednesday, the April contract traded as low as $30.80, down $3.33 - one of the biggest one-day price drops in recent memory, traders said. The price plunge followed news that Iran, a hardliner among the members of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries, would go along with an increase in oil production, starting April 1. The latest weekly inventory data also showed big increases in U.S. crude and gasoline stockpiles, which also pushed prices lower. 

 Overseas, London's FTSE 100 closed at 6,411.2, down 55.3 points, or 0.86 percent. In Tokyo, the benchmark Nikkei fell 177.44 points or 0.89 percent to close at 19,766.80. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw3804rrf




 FOCUS - Shares stay lower, await Wall Street lead. 

 By Dale Faulken 
1,021 words
8 March 2000
12:39
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, March 8 (Reuters) - Global stock markets remained under pressure on Wednesday after Wall Street's tumble overnight raised fears of further falls in both "new" and "old" economy shares. 

 The dollar, which also eased on Tuesday as investors shied away from U.S. assets, steadied against the yen after the Bank of Japan intervened in Tokyo to stem the Japanese currency's rise. The yen had bounded to five-week highs in Tokyo earlier. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 374.47 points or 3.7 percent to 9,796.03, its lowest level in nearly a year and some 16 percent below recent record peaks. The fall came after consumer products group Procter & Gamble issued a profit warning, sparking a sell-off of "old economy" shares. 

 The high-technology or "new economy" laden Nasdaq Index, which had previously seemed to ignore Dow weakness, also finished lower, falling 57.01 points or 1.16 percent, raising fears of a further decline in share prices. 

 "When Nasdaq was going higher, everything was well and good," David Coleman, chief economist at CIBC World Markets told Reuters Television. 

 "But if that (Nasdaq) does start falling, this new economy story perhaps will start unravelling. We could be in for a torrid time for U.S. equities." 

 Dealers said share markets across the globe are likely to remain volatile due to thin trading volumes as investors wait to see if Wall Street continues to lose ground. 

 The Dow looked set for a modest opening advance on Wednesday. The March S&P 500 futures contract, an indicator of how the U.S. market is likely to start trade, was up around five points, equivalent to about 30-35 points on the cash market. 

 But investors will probably focus on Nasdaq, the market which boasts many of the Internet and computer stocks which have found favour with private and institutional investors alike. 

 At Tuesday's close, the Nasdaq Composite index was still up 19 percent since the start of the year and has more than doubled in value over the past 12 months, according to data from Reuters Securities 3000. 

 The Dow in contrast has dropped 15 percent since January 1 and is only up a net 68 points or less than one percent since March 8, 1999. 

 Europe's biggest bourse, the benchmark FTSE 100 was down 0.34 percent, while in Frankfurt the DAX index eased 0.62 percent and in Paris the CAC-40 fell 0.71 percent. 

 Shares in Cap Gemini rose seven percent after the French computer services firm unveiled a global internet consulting venture with U.S. group Cisco Systems Inc., the world's largest maker of equipment that powers the Internet. 

 German chemical group BASF AG also bucked the weaker trend, rising two percent after it said it had started a share buyback of about seven percent of market capitalisation, worth a total of up to 2.0 billion euros ($1.92 billion). 

 Insurance stocks and some banks rose on speculation of further consolidation in the sector after Dresdner Bank AGA and Deutsche Bank AG on Tuesday announced there were in advanced talks on cooperation that indsutry sources said could lead to a merger. 

 Insurer Allianz AG rose five percent, while reinsurer Munich Re AG gained 6.75 percent. 

 DOLLAR STEADIES AFTER BOJ INTERVENTION 

 The dollar was trading at around 107 against the yen by midday, up around a yen from an earlier low of 106.02 after the Japanese central bank's unexpected action to take the steam out of the yen. 

 But analysts said the bid to hold back the yen could be short-lived with the dollar still seen under pressure if investors continue to dump U.S. shares. 

 "Without other central banks participating, these are going to be little more than smoothing operations," Larry Duke, vice president at Citibank in Tokyo, told Reuters Television. 

 "You'll get a (dollar) bounce in the short term, but then the fundamentals come back in." 

 Dealers said the BoJ had probably not bought euros for yen during Wednesday's session, despite some speculation that the euro's recent sharp falls would prompt the Japanese authorities to prop up the beleaguered single currency. 

 The euro, which earlier tumbled to a lifetime low of 100.90 yen, capitalised on the yen's weakness to trade at around 103 yen but looked vulnerable to further losses after yet another set of gloomy European economic data. 

 Manufacturing orders in Germany, the 11-nation euro-zone's biggest economy, unexpectedly dipped by 0.4 percent in January from December, extending a correction after a long period of growth. Economists had generally expected an increase month on month of around 1.3 percent. 

 U.S. bonds, which rose overnight after the U.S. Treasury launched its first government debt buyback in 70 years, were slightly easier with the benchmark U.S. 30-year long bond down 3/32 at 101-10/32. 

 But U.S. Treasuries could rebound later in the session if Wall Street fails to rally as investors seek security in the relative safe haven of bonds, dealers said. 

 Crude oil was hit by profit taking in London, pressured by the likelihood that producers would raise output in the second quarter after a deal to restrict supply runs out. 

 Front month IPE Brent crude for April, which closed at a nine-year high of $31.90 per barrel on Tuesday was down 109 cents at $30.81. - 

 MARKETS AT 1203 GMT CURRENCIES (figure in brackets previous London close) Euro/$ $0.95505 (0.9575) $/ Y 107.035 yen (106.785) STOCK MARKETS LONDON - FTSE 100: 6437.2 points, down 29.3 or 0.45 percent FRANKFURT - DAX-30: 8013.05 points, down 51.92 or 0.64 percent PARIS - CAC-40: 6396.43 points, down 45.42 or 0.71 percent PRECIOUS METALS (figures in brackets previous London PM fix) 

   GOLD - $293.375 ($289.75)   SILVER - $5.075 ($0) 

   Brent crude oil futures $30.85, down $1.05 

   ------------------------------------------------------------. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw3804qmt




 Dealers wipe the floor with Procter & Gamble shares 

204 words
8 March 2000
The Express
THEEXP
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 The Express; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 More than GBP25billion was slashed from the market value of Procter & Gamble last night after it warned that rising costs and price-cutting wars would hurt profits. 

 Shares in America's biggest maker of household products, whose brands include Tide detergent and Crest toothpaste, tumbled 30 per cent. In London, Unilever plunged 33dp to 347bp as analysts worried that effects would be felt across the sector. 

 Colgate-Palmolive appeared to confirm that fear when it said it was also being squeezed by higher raw material prices. Its shares fell 7 per cent, a GBP1billion drop in market value. 

 The shortfall for Procter & Gamble, which blamed rising costs in Europe and price competition in Latin America, came as consumer products companies have been trimming jobs and costs to stay competitive. 

 "What companies now have to prove is that their restructuring actions are going to more than offset the pressure from rising input costs," said Mark Lynch, industry analyst with Warburg Dillon Read. 

 Procter & Gamble's warning comes just two months after the company reassured shareholders that profit forecasts were on track. Its shares have lost 50 per cent of their value since then. 

Document theexp0020010805dw38002hw




 Featured Articles from S&P Personal Wealth 

504 words
8 March 2000
18:41
PR Newswire
PRN
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, PR Newswire) 


NEW YORK, March 8 /PRNewswire/ -- Read the following articles exclusively at
S&P Personal Wealth (http://www.personalwealth.com). Standard & Poor's is a
division of the McGraw-Hill Companies:
   "Capitulation in Progress for the Dow"
   http://www.personalwealth.com/story/doc.html?id=2594387Profit-taking in the Nasdaq and a simple fear of higher interest rates
   combined with a negative headline -- an earnings warning from Procter &
   Gamble (NYSE: PG) -- to put the markets into a slide on Tuesday, which
   fed on S&P Market Analyst Paul Cherney says without a bullish headline on
   Wednesday, any opening strength will usually run out of momentum in the
   first 20 minutes of trading, and then a dip can unfold.  He thinks
   choppy, non-trending trading could rule Wednesday's session.



  He notes
   that "buy the dip" is already being muttered, but he'd prefer to watch
   intraday action to gauge the fear and greed on Wall Street.
   "Jefferies Downgrades Comverse Technology Shares to Accumulate"
   http://www.personalwealth.com/story/doc.html?id=2594602
   Jeffries downgraded shares of Comverse Technology (Nasdaq: CMVT) to
   accumulate from buy after the company posted $0.60 Q4 EPS on 27% sales
   rise and set a 2-for-1 stock split.  Analyst Ashton Douglas told his
   salesforce Q4 was the 23rd straight quarter of meeting or beating
   expectations, fueled by a strong top line, slightly stronger operating
   margins, and strength in Asia and Europe.  But despite the strong results
   and CMVT's status as an industry leader, the analyst downgraded its
   shares on the belief there should be a limit to the premium investors are
   willing to pay for the company's visibility and upside.
   "Something Solid Vaults Vignette into the Tech Stratosphere"
   http://www.personalwealth.com/story/doc.html?id=2593037
   It's true that since October, the dizzying rise in shares of Vignette
   Corp. (Nasdaq: VIGN) from less than 50 to a recent 268 smacks of typical
   high-tech volatility.  But if you're willing to bet on technologies that
   have a chance to set a standard for the future, Vignette is a reasonable
   choice. have a chance to build itself an Internet-related franchise to
rival
   Microsoft's in operating system software.



S&P Personal Wealth (http://www.personalwealth.com) is the award winning
service created specifically for individual investors by Standard & Poor's.
Investment management features include personalized portfolio recommendations;
buy, sell, and hold alerts; free real-time quotes, live market commentary; and
in-depth analysis and research on companies and funds from hundreds of
Standard and Poor's analysts worldwide. S&P Personal Wealth, recently
described as "...easily the best one-stop shopping site for investors.." by
Money.com, can also be reached through leading on-line service partners such
as AOL, Netscape, Lycos, Quicken / Excite, ABCNEWS.com, and Mindspring.


Document prn0000020010812dw3800wws




BUSINESS
P &G SINKS AFTER  PROFIT WARNING  SURPRISED INVESTORS SLICE $38 BILLION FROM STOCK VALUE 

MARGUERITE NUGENT, EUTERS NEWS SERVICE 
694 words
8 March 2000
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
PPGZ
SOONER
C-8
English
© 2000 Post Gazette Publishing Company.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.  All rights reserved.  

Procter &Gamble Co. learned one of Wall Street's harshest lessons yesterday after it caught analysts and investors off guard with a profit warning. 

The announcement sent its stock and those of other consumer products makers in the United States and overseas plummeting. 

P&G said it expected fiscal thirdquarter earnings per share to be down 10 to 11 percent from the yearago quarter, compared with its prior forecast for a rise of 7 to 9 percent. 

After the news, investors shaved off nearly one-third off P&G's market value, leaving the stock at its lowest since April 1997 and contributing mightily to a nearly 3 percent drop in the Dow Jones industrial average. It also left the company's chairman, Durk Jager, facing the daunting task of regaining credibility for the Cincinnati- based maker of Tide laundry detergent and Crest toothpaste. 

Investors have become enamored by technology stocks because many raise funds through venture capital and stock offerings, making them less subject to a slowdown in the current rising interest-rate environment. The gains have left bluechip stocks in the cold. 

P&G stock fell 27 1/8 a share, or 31 percent, to 60 5/16 by 4 p.m. on volume of more than 68 million shares. Its high for the past 52 weeks was 118 3/8. 

Yesterday's decline erased about $38 billion in market value for P&G's roughly 1.4 billion shares. 

P&G's shares dropped as low as 57 1/2 after a delayed opening. 

The stock, one of the 30 Dow components, helped drag the U.S. blue- chip gauge sharply lower. It was down almost 4 percent with P&G responsible for about half of the decline. 

P&G blamed the expected earnings shortfall in its third quarter ending March 31 largely on higherthan-anticipated costs and a delay in U.S. approval of an osteoporosis drug. 

Analysts on average had expected P&G to earn 78 cents a share in the quarter, up from 72 cents a year earlier, according to First Call/ Thomson Financial, a firm that tracks such estimates. 

P&G said earnings for the fourth quarter ending June 30 would likely rise 16 to 18 percent from a year earlier, but the weak third quarter would pull full-year profits below earlier expectations. The company said it now expected earnings per share for the year to be up 7 percent, compared with its previous forecast for a 13 percent rise. 

Analysts had expected the company to earn $3.21 a share for the year, a 12.6 percent increase over fiscal 1999's $2.85, according to First Call. 

P&G's Jager said high pulp and petroleum-based raw material costs accounted for about half of the downward revision in the earnings forecast. Petroleum-based materials are used in cleaning supplies such as liquid laundry detergent as well as many personal care products. 

P&G also cited a shift in a milestone payment and minor asset sales to the April-June period from the January-March period, largely because of a delay in U.S. approval of Actonel, P&G's drug for osteoporosis, a disease that reduces bone mass. 

P&G said it expected sales growth of 7 to 8 percent for the second half of fiscal 2000. It said it was comfortable with guidance of 6 to 8 percent sales growth in fiscal 2001 and an increase in earnings per share at the upper end of a 13 to 15 percent range. 

"I am deeply disappointed we have not made more progress in driving profit growth," Jager said. 

Disappointed indeed. The reorganization, which the company launched last year to spur new products and growth, carried his imprimatur. 

Still he believes the company is on the right track with that plan, known as Organization 2005. "Organization 2005 is absolutely right," he said.  

CHART;  Caption: Chart: Hoover's;Associated Press 

Document ppgz000020010812dw3800cob




 Stocks rise after Fed's beige book shows few problems 

 By EILEEN GLANTON 
AP Business Writer
832 words
8 March 2000
23:32
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Stocks finished a turbulent session mostly higher Wednesday after the Federal Reserve's latest assessment of the economy reassured investors who were still uneasy following Tuesday's huge selloff. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 60.50 to close at 9,856.53, recovering some of the 374 points it lost Tuesday. The Nasdaq composite index, which had tumbled as much as 125 points in early trading Wednesday, finished up 49.42 at 4,897.26. 

 Broader stock indicators were mostly higher, with the Standard & Poor's 500 up 11.08 at 1,366.70. But declining stocks were ahead of advancers on the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq Stock Market, a sign that investors remained on edge. 

 The market showed signs of stabilizing in the morning and afternoon although the Dow and the Nasdaq changed direction several times while investors, still stunned by Tuesday's profit warning from Procter & Gamble, tried to determine their next moves. The Nasdaq was in negative territory much of the time. 

 But in late afternoon, some of the market's gains solidified after Fed economists released their "beige book" survey of economic conditions. The Fed found that although workers' wages are rising, there is little evidence of inflation in the overall economy. 

 The report, which central bankers will consider when they meet March 21 to discuss their interest rate policy, calmed investors' fears that rates are headed sharply higher. The Fed has raised rates four times since last June, and Chairman Alan Greenspan has made no secret of his willingness to raise rates further to slow the economy. 

 Interest rate concerns have undermined industrial and financial stocks for weeks, bringing the Dow down sharply from the closing high of 11,722.98 it set in mid-January. With such an atmosphere of uncertainty, Procter & Gamble's warning Tuesday that higher costs for raw materials would depress its earnings completely unnerved investors; they became convinced that profits would suffer at other companies as well. 

 Procter & Gamble remained out of favor Wednesday, falling 3 to 58 and extending its loss of 25 7/16 from Tuesday. 

 Some analysts said investors seemed to believe the blue chips had paid too great a price for Procter & Gamble's warning. 

 "There was no sense to the magnitude of the selloff," said Brian G. Belski, chief investment strategist at George K. Baum & Co. in Kansas City, Mo. "It was an overreaction that has really created some good buying opportunities." 

 On Wednesday, Johnson & Johnson rose 2 1/2 to 71, and Merck rose 2 7/8 to 56 13/16. Drug stocks outside the Dow were higher, too. Bristol-Myers Squibb soared 4 1/4 to 47 3/4 . 

 "Some beaten-up sectors of the market are finally getting some attention," said Francis Gannon, senior vice president and portfolio manager at SunAmerica Asset Management in New York. 

 The Nasdaq's performance was mixed as investors continued taking profits from some of the stocks that propelled the index above 5,000 for a brief time on Tuesday. Technology high-flyer JDS Uniphase fell 11 3/4 to 275 5/8 , and Applied Materials fell 4 3/4 to 179 3/8 . 

 Buyers stepped in by midafternoon to pick up some high-tech favorites. Oracle rose 8 3/16 to 83 1/8 after announcing that it will join with Wal-Mart and Chevron Corp. to launch an online supply exchange for the convenience-store industry. Also, Microsoft rose 2 11/16 to 95 9/16. 

 "You have to continue to buy the stocks that are leading the market, and for the forseeable future, that means technology," Gannon said. 

 The market was also listening closely Wednesday morning as Greenspan spoke to a banking conference in San Antonio, Texas. The Fed chairman warned banks to maintain their lending standards even in the face of strong economic conditions. 

 Greenspan's speech contributed to some nervousness, traders said. While Greenspan did not discuss interest rates or monetary policy, he repeated his concerns about Americans' inflated expectations of the economy. 

 "We have seen growing evidence of credit granted solely on the expectation that current robust conditions will continue indefinitely, with little thought as to how borrowers might perform under more stressful conditions," Greenspan told the group. 

 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 10-to-9 margin on the New York Stock Exchange. On the Nasdaq, five stocks fell for every four that rose. 

 NYSE volume totaled 1.48 billion shares, compared with 1.30 billion in the previous session. 

 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 0.79 to 594.68. 

 Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average fell 0.9 percent. Germany's Xetra DAX index slid 1.0 percent, Britain's FT-SE 100 fell 0.9 percent, and France's CAC-40 closed 1.5 percent lower. 

Urgent

Document aprs000020010803dw38056qg




 Stocks rise after Fed's beige book shows few problems 

 By EILEEN GLANTON 
AP Business Writer
832 words
8 March 2000
22:52
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Stocks finished a turbulent session mostly higher Wednesday after the Federal Reserve's latest assessment of the economy reassured investors who were still uneasy following Tuesday's huge selloff. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 60.50 to close at 9,856.53, recovering some of the 374 points it lost Tuesday. The Nasdaq composite index, which had tumbled as much as 125 points in early trading Wednesday, finished up 49.33 at 4,897.17. 

 Broader stock indicators were mostly higher, with the Standard & Poor's 500 up 11.08 at 1,366.70. But declining stocks were ahead of advancers on the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq Stock Market, a sign that investors remained on edge. 

 The market showed signs of stabilizing in the morning and afternoon although the Dow and the Nasdaq changed direction several times while investors, still stunned by Tuesday's profit warning from Procter & Gamble, tried to determine their next moves. The Nasdaq was in negative territory much of the time. 

 But in late afternoon, some of the market's gains solidified after Fed economists released their "beige book" survey of economic conditions. The Fed found that although workers' wages are rising, there is little evidence of inflation in the overall economy. 

 The report, which central bankers will consider when they meet March 21 to discuss their interest rate policy, calmed investors' fears that rates are headed sharply higher. The Fed has raised rates four times since last June, and Chairman Alan Greenspan has made no secret of his willingness to raise rates further to slow the economy. 

 Interest rate concerns have undermined industrial and financial stocks for weeks, bringing the Dow down sharply from the closing high of 11,722.98 it set in mid-January. With such an atmosphere of uncertainty, Procter & Gamble's warning Tuesday that higher costs for raw materials would depress its earnings completely unnerved investors; they became convinced that profits would suffer at other companies as well. 

 Procter & Gamble remained out of favor Wednesday, falling 3 to 58 and extending its loss of 25 7/16 from Tuesday. 

 Some analysts said investors seemed to believe the blue chips had paid too great a price for Procter & Gamble's warning. 

 "There was no sense to the magnitude of the selloff," said Brian G. Belski, chief investment strategist at George K. Baum & Co. in Kansas City, Mo. "It was an overreaction that has really created some good buying opportunities." 

 On Wednesday, Johnson & Johnson rose 2 1/2 to 71, and Merck rose 2 7/8 to 56 13/16. Drug stocks outside the Dow were higher, too. Bristol-Myers Squibb soared 4 1/4 to 47 3/4. 

 "Some beaten-up sectors of the market are finally getting some attention," said Francis Gannon, senior vice president and portfolio manager at SunAmerica Asset Management in New York. 

 The Nasdaq's performance was mixed as investors continued taking profits from some of the stocks that propelled the index above 5,000 for a brief time on Tuesday. Technology high-flyer JDS Uniphase fell 11 3/4 to 275 5/8, and Applied Materials fell 4 3/4 to 179 3/8. 

 Buyers stepped in by midafternoon to pick up some high-tech favorites. Oracle rose 8 3/16 to 83 1/8 after announcing that it will join with Wal-Mart and Chevron Corp. to launch an online supply exchange for the convenience-store industry. Also, Microsoft rose 2 11/16 to 95 9/16. 

 "You have to continue to buy the stocks that are leading the market, and for the forseeable future, that means technology," Gannon said. 

 The market was also listening closely Wednesday morning as Greenspan spoke to a banking conference in San Antonio, Texas. The Fed chairman warned banks to maintain their lending standards even in the face of strong economic conditions. 

 Greenspan's speech contributed to some nervousness, traders said. While Greenspan did not discuss interest rates or monetary policy, he repeated his concerns about Americans' inflated expectations of the economy. 

 "We have seen growing evidence of credit granted solely on the expectation that current robust conditions will continue indefinitely, with little thought as to how borrowers might perform under more stressful conditions," Greenspan told the group. 

 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 10-to-9 margin on the New York Stock Exchange. On the Nasdaq, five stocks fell for every four that rose. 

 NYSE volume totaled 1.48 billion shares, compared with 1.30 billion in the previous session. 

 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 0.79 to 594.68. 

 Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average fell 0.9 percent. Germany's Xetra DAX index slid 1.0 percent, Britain's FT-SE 100 fell 0.9 percent, and France's CAC-40 closed 1.5 percent lower. 

Urgent

Document aprs000020010803dw38056n1




 Stocks rise after Fed's beige book shows few problems 

 By EILEEN GLANTON 
AP Business Writer
843 words
8 March 2000
22:31
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Stocks finished a turbulent session mostly higher Wednesday after the Federal Reserve's latest assessment of the economy reassured investors who were still uneasy following Tuesday's huge selloff. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 60.50 to close at 9,856.53, recovering some of the 374 points it lost Tuesday. The Nasdaq composite index, which had tumbled as much as 125 points in early trading Wednesday, finished up 49.33 at 4,897.17. 

 Broader stock indicators were mostly higher, with the Standard & Poor's 500 up 11.08 at 1,366.70. But declining stocks were ahead of advancers on the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq Stock Market, a sign that investors remained on edge. 

 The market showed signs of stabilizing in the morning and afternoon although the Dow and the Nasdaq changed direction several times while investors, still stunned by Tuesday's profit warning from Procter & Gamble, tried to determine their next moves. The Nasdaq was in negative territory much of the time. 

 But in late afternoon, some of the market's gains solidified after Fed economists released their "beige book" survey of economic conditions. The Fed found that although workers' wages are rising, there is little evidence of inflation in the overall economy. 

 The report, which central bankers will consider when they meet March 21 to discuss their interest rate policy, calmed investors' fears that rates are headed sharply higher. The Fed has raised rates four times since last June, and Chairman Alan Greenspan has made no secret of his willingness to raise rates further to slow the economy. 

 Interest rate concerns have undermined industrial and financial stocks for weeks, bringing the Dow down sharply from the closing high of 11,722.98 it set in mid-January. With such an atmosphere of uncertainty, Procter & Gamble's warning Tuesday that higher costs for raw materials would depress its earnings completely unnerved investors; they became convinced that profits would suffer at other companies as well. 

 Procter & Gamble remained out of favor Wednesday, falling 3 5/16 to 57 11/16 and extending its loss of 25 7/16 from Tuesday. 

 Some analysts said investors seemed to believe the blue chips had paid too great a price for Procter & Gamble's warning. 

 "There was no sense to the magnitude of the selloff," said Brian G. Belski, chief investment strategist at George K. Baum & Co. in Kansas City, Mo. "It was an overreaction that has really created some good buying opportunities." 

 On Wednesday, Johnson & Johnson rose 2 11/16 to 71 3/16, and Merck rose 2 7/8 to 56 13/16. Drug stocks outside the Dow were higher, too. Bristol-Myers Squibb soared 4 1/4 to 47 3/4. 

 "Some beaten-up sectors of the market are finally getting some attention," said Francis Gannon, senior vice president and portfolio manager at SunAmerica Asset Management in New York. 

 The Nasdaq's performance was mixed as investors continued taking profits from some of the stocks that propelled the index above 5,000 for a brief time on Tuesday. Technology high-flyer JDS Uniphase fell 11 3/8 to 275 5/8, and Applied Materials fell 4 3/4 to 179 3/8. 

 Buyers stepped in by midafternoon to pick up some high-tech favorites. Oracle rose 8 3/16 to 83 1/8 after announcing that it will join with Wal-Mart and Chevron Corp. to launch an online supply exchange for the convenience-store industry. Also, Microsoft rose 2 11/16 to 95 9/16. 

 "You have to continue to buy the stocks that are leading the market, and for the forseeable future, that means technology," Gannon said. 

 The market was also listening closely Wednesday morning as Greenspan spoke to a banking conference in San Antonio, Texas. The Fed chairman warned banks to maintain their lending standards even in the face of strong economic conditions. 

 Greenspan's speech contributed to some nervousness, traders said. While Greenspan did not discuss interest rates or monetary policy, he repeated his concerns about Americans' inflated expectations of the economy. 

 "We have seen growing evidence of credit granted solely on the expectation that current robust conditions will continue indefinitely, with little thought as to how borrowers might perform under more stressful conditions," Greenspan told the group. 

 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 10-to-9 margin on the New York Stock Exchange. On the Nasdaq, five stocks fell for every four that rose. 

 NYSE volume totaled 1.19 billion shares as of 4 p.m., compared with 1.30 billion in the previous session. 

 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 0.79 to 594.68. 

 Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average fell 0.9 percent. Germany's Xetra DAX index slid 1.0 percent, Britain's FT-SE 100 fell 0.9 percent, and France's CAC-40 closed 1.5 percent lower. 

Urgent

Document aprs000020010803dw38056kj




 Stocks end higher, Dow gains 60.50 points 

598 words
8 March 2000
21:32
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Stocks finished a turbulent session mostly higher Wednesday after the Federal Reserve's latest report on the economy reassured nervous investors following Tuesday's huge selloff. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 60.50, or 0.6 percent, to close at 9,856.53, recovering some of the 374 points it lost Tuesday. 

 The Nasdaq composite index, which had tumbled as much as 125 points in early trading, finished up 49.33, or 1 percent, at 4,897.17, according to preliminary calculations. 

 Broader stock indicators were also higher, but declining stocks were ahead of advancers on the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq stock market. 

 The Standard and Poor's 500 rose 11.10 to 1,366.72. 

 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 10-to-9 margin on the New York Stock Exchange, with 1,543 down, 1,446 up and 487 unchanged. 

 NYSE volume totaled 1.19 billion shares as of 4 p.m., vs. 1.30 billion in the previous session. 

 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 0.79 to 594.68. 

 Stocks rose after Fed economists released its "beige book" survey of economic conditions, which indicated that while workers' wages are rising, there is little evidence of inflation in the overall economy. 

 The report, which central bankers will consider when they meet March 21 to discuss their interest rate policy, calmed investors' fears that rates are headed sharply higher. The Fed has raised rates four times since last June, and Chairman Alan Greenspan has made no secret of his willingness to raise rates further to slow the economy. 

 The Fed's report stabilized what had been a turbulent market in the wake of Tuesday's steep selloff, when the Dow fell 374 points. 

 Procter and Gamble, the catalyst for Tuesday's selloff, remained out of favor today. The company's profit warning hung over the broader market as investors worried that other companies' earnings would suffer as well. But some analysts said investors appeared to believe that the blue chips had paid too great a price for Procter and Gamble's warning. 

 "There was no sense to the magnitude of the selloff," said Brian G. Belski, chief investment strategist at George K. Baum and Co. in Kansas City, Missouri. "It was an overreaction that has really created some good buying opportunities." 

 Johnson and Johnson led the Dow higher, and Merck rose. Drug stocks outside the Dow were higher, too. Bristol Myers Squibb soared. 

 "Some beaten-up sectors of the market are finally getting some attention," said Francis Gannon, senior vice president and portfolio manager at SunAmerica Asset Management in New York. 

 The Nasdaq's performance was mixed as investors continued taking profits from some of the stocks that propelled the index above 5,000 for a brief time on Tuesday. Technology high-flyers like JDS Uniphase and Applied Materials were down. 

 But buyers stepped in by midafternoon to pick up some high-tech favorites. Oracle and Microsoft rose. 

 "You have to continue to buy the stocks that are leading the market, and for the forseeable future, that means technology," Gannon said. 

 The market was also listening closely Wednesday morning as Greenspan spoke to a banking conference in San Antonio, Texas. The Fed chairman warned banks to maintain their lending standards even in the face of strong economic conditions. 

 Greenspan's speech contributed to some nervousness, traders said. While Greenspan did not discuss interest rates or monetary policy, he repeated his concerns about Americans' inflated expectations of the economy. 

Urgent

Document aprs000020010803dw38056cs




 Wall Street Closing 

551 words
8 March 2000
21:25
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Stocks finished a turbulent session mostly higher today after the Federal Reserve's latest report on the economy reassured nervous investors following Tuesday's huge selloff. 

 According to preliminary calculations, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 60.50 to close at 9,856.53, recovering some of the 374 points it lost Tuesday. 

 The Nasdaq composite index, which had tumbled as much as 125 points in early trading, finished up 49.55 at 4,897.39. 

 Broader stock indicators were also higher, but declining stocks were ahead of advancers on the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq stock market. 

 Stocks rose after Fed economists released its "beige book" survey of economic conditions, which indicated that while workers' wages are rising, there is little evidence of inflation in the overall economy. 

 The report, which central bankers will consider when they meet March 21 to discuss their interest rate policy, calmed investors' fears that rates are headed sharply higher. The Fed has raised rates four times since last June, and Chairman Alan Greenspan has made no secret of his willingness to raise rates further to slow the economy. 

 The Fed's report today stabilized what had been a turbulent market in the wake of Tuesday's steep selloff, when the Dow fell 374 points. 

 Procter & Gamble, the catalyst for Tuesday's selloff, remained out of favor today. The company's profit warning hung over the broader market as investors worried that other companies' earnings would suffer as well. But some analysts said investors appeared to believe that the blue chips had paid too great a price for Procter & Gamble's warning. 

 "There was no sense to the magnitude of the selloff," said Brian G. Belski, chief investment strategist at George K. Baum & Co. in Kansas City, Mo. "It was an overreaction that has really created some good buying opportunities." 

 Johnson & Johnson led the Dow higher, and Merck rose. Drug stocks outside the Dow were higher, too. Bristol Myers Squibb soared. 

 "Some beaten-up sectors of the market are finally getting some attention," said Francis Gannon, senior vice president and portfolio manager at SunAmerica Asset Management in New York. 

 The Nasdaq's performance was mixed as investors continued taking profits from some of the stocks that propelled the index above 5,000 for a brief time on Tuesday. Technology high-flyers like JDS Uniphase and Applied Materials were down. 

 But buyers stepped in by midafternoon to pick up some high-tech favorites. Oracle and Microsoft rose. 

 "You have to continue to buy the stocks that are leading the market, and for the forseeable future, that means technology," Gannon said. 

 The market was also listening closely this morning as Greenspan spoke to a banking conference in San Antonio, Texas. The Fed chairman warned banks to maintain their lending standards even in the face of strong economic conditions. 

 Greenspan's speech contributed to some nervousness, traders said. While Greenspan did not discuss interest rates or monetary policy, he repeated his concerns about Americans' inflated expectations of the economy. 

 "We have seen growing evidence of credit granted solely on the expectation that current robust conditions will continue indefinitely, with little thought as to how borrowers might perform under more stressful conditions," Greenspan told the group. 

Urgent

Document aprs000020010803dw38056bt




 Wall Street appears to stabilize after big drop 

 By JOYCE M. ROSENBERG 
AP Business Writer
644 words
8 March 2000
16:41
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Stock prices stabilized today as a Federal Reserve assessment of the economy reassured nervous investors following Tuesday's huge selloff. 

 The Dow rose 60.50 to 9,856.53, according to preliminary calculations, making up some of the nearly 375 points it lost in Tuesday's plunge. The Nasdaq composite index rose 49.45 to 4,897.25. 

 Both indexes changed direction several times in the morning and early afternoon as traders regrouped after Tuesday's big drop. But both were solidly higher after the Fed released its "beige book" assessment of economic conditions, reporting that while workers' wages are rising, there is little evidence of inflation in the overall economy. 

 The report gave investors their first real impetus to buy today. It convinced them that the Fed, which has raised interest rates four times since June to try to control inflation, might not have to push rates sharply higher in the coming months. 

 Even before Tuesday's drop, which was sparked by a Procter & Gamble warning about disappointing profits, industrial and financial stocks had been falling because of concerns that higher rates would erode company earnings. 

 Still, investors remained uncertain about the outlook for corporate profits after the surprise announcement by Procter & Gamble set off massive selling on Wall Street. The consumer products maker said higher raw materials prices would hurt its profits for the rest of its fiscal year. 

 The market was completely unnerved by the fact that even Procter & Gamble, whose products include consumer staples such as Crest toothpaste and Tide detergent, could be vulnerable to earnings problems, and investors began to sell off a broad range of stocks. 

 The Dow lost 374.47 and ended at 9,796.03, its lowest close in nearly a year. It is now down about 14 percent for the year. 

 Even the technology-dominated Nasdaq, which has been relatively immune from profit concerns lately, has been hit hard. The index made a brief foray past 5,000 for the first time Tuesday, but it eventually fell victim to widespread selling, and analysts said investors uncertain about the market's direction were collecting more profits today. 

 Still, the Nasdaq, which has outperformed the Dow for months as investors scooped up high-tech stocks, is up about 20 percent so far this year. 

 The markets watched closely today as Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan spoke at a banking conference. However, analysts said his comments, which focused on lending practices of small banks, did not appear to affect stock trading. 

 Overseas markets were also rattled today by Tuesday's drop. 

 In Paris today, the benchmark CAC 95 index fell 1.50 percent, while London's Financial Times-Stock Exchange index slipped 0.86 percent and the Frankfurt Xetra DAX index fell 0.97 percent. 

 In earlier trading in Tokyo and Singapore, stock indexes were able to hold their losses to below 1 percent in volatile trading. 

 Japan's benchmark Nikkei Stock Average, which fell sharply when trading began Wednesday, ended the session at 19,766.80, down 177.44, or 0.89 percent, from the day before. 

 "Judging by what happened in New York overnight, the (Nikkei) market is extremely strong," said Hidenori Karaki, a general manager of stocks at Tokyo-Mitsubishi Personal Securities. 

 In Hong Kong, were down sharply in early trading but turned around late in the session. The blue-chip Hang Seng Index rose 86.07, or 0.5 percent, to 17,951.43, a new closing highs. 

 "Although the U.S. fall was to a large extent due to Procter and Gamble's profit warning, the fall has had strong repercussions in the Hong Kong bourse," said Alex Wong, a research manager at OSK Asia Securities Ltd., as trading began there. 

Urgent

Document aprs000020010803dw38054d7




 Wall Street appears to stabilize after big drop 

 By JOYCE M. ROSENBERG 
AP Business Writer
644 words
8 March 2000
09:55
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Stock prices stabilized today as a Federal Reserve assessment of the economy reassured nervous investors following Tuesday's huge selloff. 

 The Dow rose 60.50 to 9,856.53, according to preliminary calculations, making up some of the nearly 375 points it lost in Tuesday's plunge. The Nasdaq composite index rose 49.45 to 4,897.25. 

 Both indexes changed direction several times in the morning and early afternoon as traders regrouped after Tuesday's big drop. But both were solidly higher after the Fed released its "beige book" assessment of economic conditions, reporting that while workers' wages are rising, there is little evidence of inflation in the overall economy. 

 The report gave investors their first real impetus to buy today. It convinced them that the Fed, which has raised interest rates four times since June to try to control inflation, might not have to push rates sharply higher in the coming months. 

 Even before Tuesday's drop, which was sparked by a Procter & Gamble warning about disappointing profits, industrial and financial stocks had been falling because of concerns that higher rates would erode company earnings. 

 Still, investors remained uncertain about the outlook for corporate profits after the surprise announcement by Procter & Gamble set off massive selling on Wall Street. The consumer products maker said higher raw materials prices would hurt its profits for the rest of its fiscal year. 

 The market was completely unnerved by the fact that even Procter & Gamble, whose products include consumer staples such as Crest toothpaste and Tide detergent, could be vulnerable to earnings problems, and investors began to sell off a broad range of stocks. 

 The Dow lost 374.47 and ended at 9,796.03, its lowest close in nearly a year. It is now down about 14 percent for the year. 

 Even the technology-dominated Nasdaq, which has been relatively immune from profit concerns lately, has been hit hard. The index made a brief foray past 5,000 for the first time Tuesday, but it eventually fell victim to widespread selling, and analysts said investors uncertain about the market's direction were collecting more profits today. 

 Still, the Nasdaq, which has outperformed the Dow for months as investors scooped up high-tech stocks, is up about 20 percent so far this year. 

 The markets watched closely today as Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan spoke at a banking conference. However, analysts said his comments, which focused on lending practices of small banks, did not appear to affect stock trading. 

 Overseas markets were also rattled today by Tuesday's drop. 

 In Paris today, the benchmark CAC 95 index fell 1.50 percent, while London's Financial Times-Stock Exchange index slipped 0.86 percent and the Frankfurt Xetra DAX index fell 0.97 percent. 

 In earlier trading in Tokyo and Singapore, stock indexes were able to hold their losses to below 1 percent in volatile trading. 

 Japan's benchmark Nikkei Stock Average, which fell sharply when trading began Wednesday, ended the session at 19,766.80, down 177.44, or 0.89 percent, from the day before. 

 "Judging by what happened in New York overnight, the (Nikkei) market is extremely strong," said Hidenori Karaki, a general manager of stocks at Tokyo-Mitsubishi Personal Securities. 

 In Hong Kong, were down sharply in early trading but turned around late in the session. The blue-chip Hang Seng Index rose 86.07, or 0.5 percent, to 17,951.43, a new closing highs. 

 "Although the U.S. fall was to a large extent due to Procter and Gamble's profit warning, the fall has had strong repercussions in the Hong Kong bourse," said Alex Wong, a research manager at OSK Asia Securities Ltd., as trading began there. 

Urgent

Document aprs000020010803dw38051lp




 Wall Street opens mixed 

 By JOYCE M. ROSENBERG 
AP Business Writer
535 words
8 March 2000
07:12
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - The Dow Jones industrials continued their decline today as Wall Street remained nervous following the huge selloff Tuesday that pulled the Dow down nearly 375 points. 

 The Dow was off about 362 points at the 9,759 level at midmorning. The Nasdaq composite index, dropping amid heavy profit-taking in high-tech stocks, was down about 118 points to 4,728. 

 Overseas markets also were rattled today by Tuesday's drop. 

 Investors were uncertain about the outlook for corporate profits after a suprising warning Tuesday from Procter & Gamble set off massive selling on Wall Street. The consumer products maker said higher raw materials prices would hurt its profits for the rest of the company's fiscal year. 

 The market was already uneasy about the earnings outlook for big industrial companies before Procter & Gamble's announcement. It was completely unnerved by the fact that even Procter & Gamble, whose products include consumer staples such as Crest toothpaste and Tide detergent, could be vulnerable to earnings problems, and investors began to sell off a broad range of stocks. 

 The Dow lost 374.47 and ended at 9,796.03, its lowest close in nearly a year. 

 Even the technology-dominated Nasdaq, which has been relatively immune from profit concerns lately, was hit hard. The index made a brief foray past 5,000 for the first time Tuesday, but it eventually fell victim to widespread selling, and analysts said investors uncertain about Wall Street's direction were collecting more profits today. 

 Still, the Nasdaq, which has outperformed the Dow for months as investors scooped up high-tech stocks, is up about 17 percent so far this year. 

 The markets watched closely today as Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan spoke at a banking conference. However, analysts said his comments, in which he cautioned bankers to avoid making loans on the expectation that the vibrant economy will continue unabated, did not affect the stock market. 

 In Paris today, the benchmark CAC 95 index was down 0.09 percent, while London's Financial Times-Stock Exchange index was down 0.71 percent and the Frankfurt Xetra DAX index was down 0.40 percent. 

 In earlier trading in Tokyo and Singapore, stock indexes were able to hold their losses to below 1 percent in volatile trading. 

 Japan's benchmark Nikkei Stock Average, which fell sharply when trading began Wednesday, ended the session at 19,766.80, down 177.44, or 0.89 percent, from the day before. 

 "Judging by what happened in New York overnight, the (Nikkei) market is extremely strong," said Hidenori Karaki, a general manager of stocks at Tokyo-Mitsubishi Personal Securities. 

 In Hong Kong, were down sharply in early trading but turned around late in the session. The blue-chip Hang Seng Index rose 86.07, or 0.5 percent, to 17,951.43, a new closing highs. 

 "Although the U.S. fall was to a large extent due to Procter and Gamble's profit warning, the fall has had strong repercussions in the Hong Kong bourse," said Alex Wong, a research manager at OSK Asia Securities Ltd., as trading began there. 

Urgent

Document aprs000020010803dw3804zrl

Search Summary

 Text((“profit*” same “warning*”) or ("disappoint*" same "result*") or ("decreas*" same "profit*") or ("compan*" same "downturn*") or ("unexpect*" same "loss*"))   Date03/01/2000 to 03/31/2000   SourceAll Sources   AuthorAll Authors   CompanyAll Companies   Subject Not Corporate/Industrial News   IndustryAll Industries   RegionUnited States   LanguageEnglish   Results Found140   Timestamp28 March 2018 17:56  

























•	 DOW LOSES 3.6% OF VALUE IN SINGLE DAY; YESTERDAY'S DROP IS FOURTH LARGEST DAILY TUMBLE EVER
•	 Profit Warning  Triggers Dramatic U.S. Sell-Off --- Procter & Gamble Leads 374-Point Dow Drop
•	 Greenspan says stocks need to slow Nasdaq pays no heed, breaks through 5,000 
•	 Dow drops 374 
•	 Stocks steady 
•	  Your Money 
•	  NYSE Update 
•	  Dow Ends Up 60.50; Nasdaq Up 49.42 
•	  World Markets Feel Volatile Trading 
•	  Selloff gives Wall St. the jitters 
•	 P&G  PROFIT WARNING  SENDS STOCKS TUMBLING
•	 Procter and Gamble plunges on  profit warning  ATTENTION - UPDATES with markets closing ///
•	 Crash fears as Dow Jones takes a plunge  
•	 Newscast: Blue chip roller coaster unlikely to stabilize until tech stocks settle   
•	 Dow Plunges 374 on P&G's  Profit Warning  Wall Street: Earnings bombshell from the consumer products giant clobbers 'old economy' stocks; oil surges again.
•	  Nasdaq touches 5,000 before falling 1.2% 
•	  N.Y. Stocks Settle Down, As Rotation Supports Averages 
•	  SMARTMONEY.COM: Pummeled By Procter & Gamble 
•	  IN THE MONEY 
•	  Nightly Business Report 
•	  NYSE 
•	  Dow Nosedives, Nasdaq Eases after Hitting Record 
•	  European stocks fall 
•	  European stocks fall 
•	  Dow drops nearly 375, spoiling Nasdaq's big day 
•	  Dow drops nearly 375, spoiling Nasdaq's big day 
•	  European Stocks Fall 
•	  AP Financial NewsBriefs: Tuesday, March 7, 2000 
•	 Procter and Gamble plunges on  profit warning
•	 European shares tumble after Procter and Gamble  profit warning  ATTENTION - UPDATES with closings ///
•	  Nasdaq bursts past 5,000 mark but Dow tumbles below 10,000 
•	  SMARTMONEY.COM: Pummeled By Procter & Gamble 
•	 N.Y. Stocks Sink Sharply As  Profit Warning  Explodes
•	  Rising Pulp Prices Could Mean Rebound For Forestry  Companies 
•	  P&G Falls On Profit Woes And Drags The Market With It 
•	  Nightly Business Report 
•	  First Security Warning Spurs a Sell-Off 
•	  Palm, Incorporated - CEO Interview on Nightly Business Report 
•	  High-tech leasing  

General
DOW LOSES 3.6% OF VALUE IN SINGLE DAY; YESTERDAY'S DROP IS FOURTH LARGEST DAILY TUMBLE EVER

From Wire and Staff Reports; Times-Dispatch staff writer Carol Hazard contributed to this report.   
641 words
8 March 2000
The Richmond Times-Dispatch
RCHD
One Star
A-1
English
Copyright 2000, Media General. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

A vulnerable Dow Jones industrial average lost 3.68 percent of its value yesterday after a warning of lower profit by Procter & Gamble Co. fed fears that rising oil prices and interest rates will slow the economy.

The 374.47-point decline was the Dow's fourth-biggest drop in one day and pushed the index to its lowest closing since March 31. The Dow finished the day at 9,796.03.

Still, on a percentage basis, the Dow's drop did not even qualify among the 10 largest percentage drops ever.

Of the 30 stocks in the Dow, only Exxon Mobil Corp., Microsoft Corp. and United Technologies Corp. gained yesterday.

After 3 p.m., the contagion spread beyond the Dow.

The seemingly invulnerable Nasdaq composite index, which had soared more than 100 points to just over 5,000 in the morning, eventually gave in to the Dow's downward pull. The Nasdaq began to fall after nervous technology investors cashed in some of their enormous profit. The index fell 57.01 points, closing at 4,847.84.

The Dow's decline came as investors were reminded of twin threats to the nation's economic expansion. The down day coincided with a surge in U.S. crude oil prices, to more than $34 a barrel, and came a day after Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan restated his plan to cool the economy by continuing to boost interest rates.

"We continue to see the fallout from some of the recently worded messages from the Fed," said David West, research director for Davenport & Co. in Richmond. "Sometimes the market blows that off, but sometimes the market takes it to heart."

Despite a shaky January and yesterday's downturn, the Nasdaq has thumbed its nose at the Dow for most of the year. It is up 19.1 percent - that after an 86 percent gain in 1999, the biggest ever for a major stock index.

The Dow is down 14.8 percent for the year, closing under 10,000 for the second time this year. The Standard & Poor's 500 index has slumped 7.73 percent this year and closed at 1,355.62 yesterday.

Analysts said the Nasdaq's muted reaction to the Dow's dive reflected a growing, if unproved, belief among investors that, if the economy slows, the high-tech companies that dominate the Nasdaq may be insulated. "We're in uncharted territory," admitted Bruce Addison, branch manager of the Boston office of First Union Securities. "The height of the market, the new psychology of Internet day traders, online traders, people rolling money out of value funds and buying growth stocks - it'sunbelievable."

The hunger for Nasdaq stocks has persisted for the past 15 or so months, said Kent Engelke, senior vice president and capital market strategist for Anderson & Strudwick Inc. of Richmond. "It's getting more and more acute. .*.*. It's when the Nasdaq corrects that it's going to be very ugly."

Explaining the Nasdaq's continued strength despite yesterday's swing, Kevin Park, chief equity officer of Massachusetts Financial Services, said the technology sector is not a single industry whose stocks necessarily rise or fall together.

"You have so much of the market lumped under one banner headline," he said. But "there are multiple layers and multiple industries within the sector. Parts are probably overvalued and parts aren't."

Moreover, he said some technology stocks, including Oracle and LSI Logic, are expected to report strong first-quarter earnings.

"The fundamentals which have been driving this market are still intact," Addison said, "but expect more fluctuations and more wild swings."

PHOTO   

Document RCHD000020111212dw3800vdu
 

 

 Profit Warning  Triggers Dramatic U.S. Sell-Off --- Procter & Gamble Leads 374-Point Dow Drop   

 By Emily Nelson and Nikhil Deogun   
Staff Reporters
1,372 words
8 March 2000
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
1
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

 Procter & Gamble Co. stunned Wall Street with a second-half profitwarning that sent shares of many U.S. blue chips swooning.   

 The surprise announcement was compounded for the consumer-products giant because investors are still reeling from Chief Executive Officer Durk Jager's befuddling plan -- quickly abandoned six weeks ago -- to become a pharmaceuticals powerhouse by acquiring Warner-Lambert Co. and American Home Products Corp. After the drug talks, some traders were saying that P&G was trading at a "Durk discount."   

 The discount just got steeper. Shares of P&G, whose products -- such as Tide laundry detergent and Crest toothpaste, among other staples -- are in 98% of American households, plunged $27.4375, or 31%, to close at $60 yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange. The company's market capitalization has fallen to $75 billion (78.4 billion euros), half its size two months ago, before news of its interest in buying the drug companies. The stock dragged down the rest of the market yesterday, as investors questioned the Cincinnati company's credibility and its prospects of delivering steady earnings growth. The Dow Jones Industrial Average tumbled 374.47, a drop of 3.68%, to end at 9796.03. The decline also reflects investors' widespread wariness for traditional, old-line companies.   

 In an interview yesterday, Mr. Jager acknowledged, "There is a credibility issue at stake here."   

 Now Mr. Jager is in a jam: the ambitious plan he laid out when he became CEO just a year ago to remake P&G called for spending to launch new products, better marketing and considering blockbuster acquisitions. But all these moves are expensive in the short term and it looks like Wall Street may not be patient enough for problems along the way.   

 Mr. Jager says he isn't straying from his strategy, calling this a "temporary setback." He vows to rebuild investor confidence by meeting his reduced forecasts.   

 For Mr. Jager, the clock is ticking: Should his moves fail to show up on the bottom line quickly, investors and the board of directors -- which includes his former boss John Pepper as well as the former head of General Motors Co. -- may lose patience. Mr. Jager says pressure "comes with the territory. You win a number, you lose a number. I regret more than anyone else that we had to go through this." As for his job security? "The board has to judge whether the company was rightly managed at that time, as they do on an ongoing basis."   

 P&G's missteps perhaps wouldn't seems such a big deal if the rules of the stock market hadn't changed so dramatically. A few years ago, consumer companies -- such as P&G, Coca-Cola Co. and Gillette Co. -- could do no wrong and investors rewarded them with sky-high valuations. Then, Wall Street fell in love with technology stocks and the Internet. Once unheard of companies -- such as JDS Uniphase Corp. -- now have market values greater than P&G.   

 At the same time, investors and boards of directors have little patience for underperformance. Take the case of Coca-Cola Co. M. Douglas Ivester was considered the perfect choice as CEO in late 1997 and he immediately tried to make a couple of acquisitions. But several missteps -- including bad earnings and poorly handled public relations -- raised questions about his leadership and his once-fawning board turned on him, propelling him to quit the job after just two years.   

 Investors are particularly miffed at Mr. Jager about yesterday's surprise because, at conferences in New York in recent weeks, P&G Chief Financial Officer Clayt Daley said everything was on track. Yesterday, Mr. Jager said Mr. Daley didn't know of the problems "at that time" because the company forecasts monthly. Mr. Jager said he didn't see the problems until about a week ago and called in his financial managers to Cincinnati to work over the numbers when he realized that the "positives and negatives" built into the forecasts wouldn't balance out.   

 "In the course of last week, we became aware that the issues were bigger than we thought," Mr. Jager said.   

 P&G outlined a laundry list of problems yesterday morning -- from higher pulp paper prices to its own operational snafus in Europe to advances by competitors in several of its businesses like snacks in North America. P&G said it expects third-quarter operating earnings to be down 10% to 11% from the year-earlier, and the rest of the year to be up 7%, not the 13% it had expected.   

 P&G also expects to take charges in the quarters for Mr. Jager's restructuring program, which will cut about 15,000 jobs and cost $1.9 billion. Its reduced forecasts exclude those charges.   

 For the quarter ending March 31, P&G said it expects operating earnings of 64 cents to 65 cents a diluted share, compared with 72 cents in the year-ago quarter. Fourth-quarter operating results are expected to be between 64 cents a share and 65 cents a share, 3 cents to 4 cents lower than its plans.   

 The causes P&G outlined yesterday include operating problems in Europe, where it moved 1,000 employees to a new headquarters in Geneva in an effort to globalize its operations. But P&G shipped too many products early on, so it faced an inventory glut this winter. As a result, it cut back production, incurring higher manufacturing as well as logistics costs.   

 In North America, P&G said its snacks sales slipped because of competition, and in Argentina, Brazil, and Chile, tough competition from Unilever prompted P&G to cut prices -- and sacrifice profit margin -- on its premium detergent.   

 Ironically, the bad news comes just as P&G is finally starting to boost its top-line sales, a longstanding goal. For years, P&G reported steady earnings, but much of the growth came from cost-cutting. Sales inched up as P&G's stable of brands matured and it failed to introduce successful new products for modern consumers. Yesterday, P&G said sales would increase 6% to 7% this fiscal year, its highest in five years.   

 Mr. Jager said last spring that acquisitions would be part of his corporate makeover. He's hard pressed now because of P&G's fallen stock price. In an interview yesterday, he conceded he'll spend coming quarters focusing on existing businesses.   

 "They have no business thinking about acquisitions at this time," says Art Cecil, at T. Rowe Price, a large investor with 2.4 million P&G shares at its last SEC filing.   

 Prior to merger discussions with American Home and Warner-Lambert, Mr. Jager had made an unsolicited overture to Gillette Co. Last summer, the company bought Iams, the pet food maker, and people familiar with the matter say the company had been aggressively on the prowl for additional deals, and even had discussions with Ralston-Purina Group, maker of pet food and batteries.   

 But investment bankers say the massive decline in P&G's stock price has seriously hindered P&G's ability to do a deal. Most large deals are stock-swap transactions, and P&G's currency -- its stock -- has taken a beating. "He's got no currency," says one investment banker.   

 Even P&G loyalists are dumping the stock. John Thomas, a retired P&G brand manager for liquid cleaner, sold all his P&G stock, 500 shares, in January when it hit $100 and reinvested his proceeds in Cisco Systems Inc. and Sun Microsystems Inc. Mr. Thomas, who lives in Winnetka, Illinois, says he doesn't watch "fundamentals" but sold because he knows that the market favors technology stocks. He sold simply because "I learned back at Procter & Gamble that the consumer and market will say what's right." Still, Mr. Thomas says, "it was an emotional struggle to do that."   

Document wsje000020010814dw38003vn
 

BUSINESS
Greenspan says stocks need to slow Nasdaq pays no heed, breaks through 5,000 

Associated Press 
425 words
8 March 2000
The Cincinnati Post
CINP
English
© 2000 Cincinnati Post.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.  All rights reserved.  

Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said Monday that if the high-flying stock market loses some of its zip, that will help slow the supercharged U.S. economy to a more sustainable pace. 

In echoes of warnings he gave Congress last month, Greenspan served notice that the central bank would help that process along with more interest rate increases if necessary. 

But the Nasdaq paid no heed to the warning. The technology- dominated exchange, which has surged in recent months, made its first trip past 5,000 just over two months after its first close above 4,000. Shortly after the session began, the index soared more than 100 points to 5,006.78 before pulling back on profit-taking. 

In a bet that technology stocks are best prepared to thrive even if the Federal Reserve continues raising interest rates this year, investors have flocked to those shares at the expense of nearly every other corner of the market. 

The Dow Jones industrial average was down 235 at 9,935, having regained some ground from an earlier 351-point drop that was led by a massive selloff of Procter &Gamble stock. 

"Everyone is crowding into technology, and money continues to flow out of the rest of the market," said Robert Stovall, market analyst at Prudential Securities. 

Since the start of the year, the Nasdaq has risen nearly 23 percent, while the blue-chip Dow has tumbled nearly 12 percent. 

Many analysts said it was significant that Greenspan chose a conference on the "New Economy" at Boston College in Massachusetts to elaborate on concerns that America's record-breaking economic expansion could be ended by a resurgence of inflation unless growth slowed to a more sustainable level. 

He said red-hot consumer demand, which has been met increasingly by imported goods, had driven the nation's trade deficit to unsustainable levels. 

In addition, he said, the lowest unemployment rates in 30 years raised the prospect that workers will begin to demand much higher pay. Such demands "would intensify inflationary pressures or squeeze profit margins, with either outcome capable of bringing our growing prosperity to an end," Greenspan said. 

Economists viewed Greenspan's remarks as a clear signal that the central bank, which already has boosted interest rates four times since last June, is prepared to do more. Greenspan on Monday said he didn't see any signs that the solid gains in productivity growth will peter out soon.  

Document cinp000020010804dw38003yp
 

 

FINANCIAL
Dow drops 374 

DAVID ROEDER 
793 words
8 March 2000
Chicago Sun-Times
CHI
English
© 2000 Chicago Sun Times.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.  All rights reserved.  

The stock market was full of woe Tuesday, enough to send the Dow Jones industrial average crashing. 

The Dow fell 374.47 points to close at 9,796.03, suffering its fourth biggest point loss ever. That left the index of 30 companies that symbolize the bluest of blue-chip stocks about where it was 11 months ago. 

The Dow's percentage loss was 3.68, nowhere near its historic down days. The broader market also suffered, but not so badly. 

Volume on the New York Stock Exchange exceeded 1.6 billion shares and the Nasdaq volume topped 2.1 million shares. Both figures were the second busiest the markets have recorded. 

Analysts said the gravity-defying Nasdaq composite index, up more than 19 percent this year and 120 percent since the start of 1999, shrugged off the first 200 points of the Dow's loss as it raced past its own milestone of 5,000 points. 

But when the blue chips kept falling, Nasdaq investors grew nervous, too, and bailed out. 

The technology-heavy index gave up 160 points from its high of the day to close down 57.01, or 1.16 percent, at 4,847.84. The Standard & Poor's 500 stock index fell 35.66, or 2.56 percent, to 1,355.62. 

The New York Stock Exchange saw declining stocks outnumber advancers by a 2-1 ratio. 

Analysts said concern about profits, interest rates, and even prices at the gas pump hit the market hard. 

The Dow's drubbing was chiefly due to Procter &Gamble, one of its components. The maker of detergents and toothpaste issued a profit warning, blaming higher costs for oil, pulp and other raw materials. 

Procter &Gamble's stock tumbled $27.12 1/2 to $60.31 1/4, erasing $36 billion in market value and accounting for nearly 140 points of the Dow's 374-point swoon. 

Merrill Lynch downgraded its ratings on the entire consumer products sector, depressing stocks including Colgate Palmolive and Kimberly Clark. Those companies have not issued any warnings about earnings, but Colgate Palmolive fell $6.06 to $46.75, and Kimberly Clark fell $5.25 to $45.37 1/2. 

The market already was on edge because of Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan's vow Monday that more interest-rate hikes will come if the economy doesn't slow. 

William Kovacic, a certified financial planner in Palos Heights, said experts are beginning to worry about the impact of rising oil prices. With supplies tight and exporting nations sticking to higher per-barrel prices of oil, gas prices at the pump could top $2 a gallon this summer. 

"Prices that high would cause a consumer shock," Kovacic said. 

On the up side, many stocks are likely to draw out the bargain hunters. Kovacic cited Allstate, for example, which is now at about $19 a share after having been in the $40 range last year. 

Ralph Russell, vice president of investments for Dain Rauscher Inc. in Oakbrook Terrace, said investors will have to decide how much risk they can tolerate. "If you can't stand a 25-point drop, you shouldn't be in the stock in the first place," he said. 

He said those who have technology stocks that have registered substantial gains should consider "stop loss" orders - selling if the stock declines a bit. As for those wanting to invest new money in the market, Russell suggested spreading the risk with mutual funds rather than purchases of specific stocks. 

The concerns about oil hit the transportation stocks while helping the shares of the commodity's producers. Investors looked around for other stocks that, like Procter &Gamble, might be hit by higher oil prices. 

They settled on AMR, the parent of American Airlines, sending it down $4.50 to $51.50, and United Airlines parent UAL, which declined $1.87 1/2 to $46.87 1/2. Exxon, meanwhile, was up $8.06 1/4 to $81, and Chevron gained $7.75 to $81.75. 

Among the Chicago and Illinois companies having the worst days were Deere, off $3.81 to $30.38, Motorola, off $3.31 1/4 to $177.31 1/ 4, and Caterpillar, off $2.88 to $33.81. 

Beating the trend was Chicago-based Duff &Phelps Credit Rating, which is being purchased for $528 million by Fitch IBCA. As a result, Duff &Phelps stock shot up $18.02 to $97.02. 

Contributing: Associated Press  

Trader Daniel Creedon rests from the hectic action at the Chicago  Board of Trade on Tuesday, as the Dow fell 374 points. See also  related stories pages 62, 63. GRAPH; See roll microfilm.;  Credit: TED S. WARREN; ASSOCIATED PRESS 

Document chi0000020010804dw38007lr
 

 

FINANCIAL
Stocks steady 

ASSOCIATED PRESS
384 words
8 March 2000
Chicago Sun-Times
CHI
English
© 2000 Chicago Sun Times.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.  All rights reserved.  

NEW YORK Stocks moved higher in late trading today after the Federal Reserve's latest report on the economy reassured nervous investors following Tuesday's huge sell-off. 

The Dow Jones industrial average gained 60.50 to close at 9,856.53, recovering some of the 374 points it lost Tuesday. 

The Nasdaq composite index, which had tumbled as much as 125 points in early trading today, was up almost 50 points. 

Stocks rose after Fed economists released their "beige book" survey of economic conditions, which indicated that while workers' wages are rising, there is little evidence of inflation in the overall economy. 

The report, which central bankers will consider when they meet March 21 to discuss their interest rate policy, calmed investors' fears that rates are headed sharply higher. The Fed has raised rates four times since last June. 

The Fed's report today stabilized what had been a turbulent market. 

Procter &Gamble, the catalyst for Tuesday's selloff, remained out of favor today, losing more ground. 

The company's profit warning hung over the market as investors worried that other companies' earnings would suffer as well. But some analysts said investors appeared to believe that the blue chips had paid too great a price for Procter &Gamble's warning. 

"There was no sense to the magnitude of the sell-off," said Brian G. Belski, chief investment strategist at George K. Baum &Co. in Kansas City, Mo. "It was an overreaction that has really created some good buying opportunities." 

Declining issues outnumbered advancers on the New York Stock Exchange, with 1,545 down, 1,424 up and 484 unchanged, on volume of 1.21 billion shares. 

The U.S. dollar rose against most other major currencies in Europe. 

The euro was quoted at 95.64 cents, down from 95.79 cents Tuesday. 

Other dollar rates in Europe, compared with late Tuesday, included 106.83 Japanese yen, unchanged; 1.6785 Swiss francs, up from 1.6770; 1.4586 Canadian dollars, up from 1.4529. The British pound was quoted at $1.5824, up from $1.5818. 

Gold closed in London at $291.00 per troy ounce, down from $291.70 Tuesday. 

Silver closed in London at $5.08 bid per troy ounce, down from $5.09.  

Document chi0000020010804dw38007fk
 

 Business 
 Your Money 

 Christine Romans,  David Haffenreffer, Deborah Marchini 
915 words
8 March 2000
10:00
CNNfn: Business Day
BZZD
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 DEBORAH MARCHINI, CNN ANCHOR:  Watch Procter & Gamble shares this morning. The Dow component`s $26 fall accounted for about a third of the Dow`s rout on Tuesday.  Any rebound this morning could give a substantial boost to the Dow. 

 Well, on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, when P&G came out with its earnings warning and when the stock finally open, is our own Christine Romans.  She`s here to talk a little bit more about what this Dow stock did to market sentiment -- Christine. 

 CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  It was really unbelievable, Deb. You know, we stood there, we knew the Procter & Gamble warning was out, the stock wasn`t open, we watched the Dow fall 71 points.  Everyone knew it was going to be a rout, very few people expected it to be anything like we did see.  And you saw the Dow tumble from minus 71 or 72 to minus 270-some in a matter of just minutes.  So it was relay -- it was really remarkable. 

 Now, the Dow last week had its third-best weekly point gain ever, and it took just two days to more than undo that, and indeed, there are lots of folks who are now trying to decide whether it is time to buy the dips. That`s a strategy that`s worked -- worked very well in the past in these big market sell-offs, or is there more damage to be done on the downside? 

 Well, I have to say, in my very unscientific poll of people, traders, and economists and market strategists, there seems to be a pretty divided outlook here.  What do you do?  Some are saying you need to put some more of your money into money market accounts, into bond-related funds, into some asset allocation that is less out of the way of the equity market, you need to reduce your exposure.  Others are saying these are a lot of undervalued, fantastic stocks: Procter & Gamble, General Electric, J.P. Morgan, 3M, Hewlett-Packard, buy them, they`re undervalued.  Others say, these stocks will stay undervalued, Deb, for a very, very long time. 

 MARCHINI:  Yes.  A lot of brokerage companies, you know, cut their ratings on P&G yesterday, of course, after the earnings warning.  (OFF- MIKE) 

 ROMANS:  But it lost a third of its value, you know.  You have to wonder, is that overdone, or is there more to go, or are the problems that have spooked that company, are they going to spill -- you know, spill into other parts of the consumer business and the consumer companies? 

 MARCHINI:  Were the market professionals that you talk to surprised that P&G`s results generalized so much to other consumer products companies? 

 ROMANS:  Yes, and they were saying -- several people said that it was almost like a bit -- in fact, one guy said right here:  Trying to hide behind excuses about the cost of wood pulp and basic petroleum only added to the decline; it made people concerned about what it means for other companies.  There was a real -- a real scramble when that profitwarning came out about whether or not this is going to be a company-specific problem.  If it can happen to Procter & Gamble, you know, my Lord, it could happen to anybody, that`s what a lot of people are saying. 

 MARCHINI:  Yes.  We know Procter & Gamble`s results had been very consistent up until now, and just weeks ago they met with analysts, right, and basically indicated that they were pretty comfortable with what the Street`s estimates were? 

 ROMANS:  Yes, that`s something that analysts were a little confused about, because there were lots of folks who were on that conference call or know people who were on that conference call with analysts who are a little confused that there wasn`t more guidance from the company then, saying that perhaps a little guidance might have been able to stem, you know, a third of its losses, you know, a third of its value losing in yesterday, it`s just unbelievable. 

 MARCHINI:  Yes, that`s a pretty dramatic thing when that can happen in the market.  All right, Christine, thanks a lot. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc.  ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by eMediaMillWorks, Inc.  (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.)  No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document bzzd000020010804dw38000yu
 

 Business 
 NYSE Update 

 Christine Romans,  Jack Cafferty 
865 words
8 March 2000
13:00
CNNfn: Before Hours
BEFH
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 JACK CAFFERTY, CNNfn ANCHOR, BEFORE HOURS: The Dow`s plunge has many investors wondering if we`ve  seen the bottom. Now that the Dow is below 

 9800, all gains since March  of `99 have been erased. For more on that, and yesterday`s winners and  losers, let`s check in with Christine Romans at the New York Stock Exchange. Good morning. 

 CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT:  Good morning. People using words like remarkable, unsettling to describe yesterday`s stark market action. Some using the words like blood bath as well. You saw that huge down move  in the Dow yesterday and the losses the last couple of days completely turning around what had been the 4th biggest weekly point gain that we saw last week in the Dow. So, a real turn of fortunes here. The question is, of course, what happens  next? Some are a little bit concerned about how broad-based the whole thing was yesterday. You take a  look at the  transportation for example, they had just a really bruising day down 112 1//2 points at 2263. The index losing 4 3/4 percent yesterday. It`s just unbelievable when you take a look at the last year for the transports as those oil prices continue to rally and oil again spiking higher yesterday. You have transportation down almost 37 percent over the last year. However when you do take a look at a 5 year chart, and you put in a little more perspective, we do have the transports trading above their levels from five years ago. But you have to start looking at longer term charts, Jack, when you`re talking about support in some of these different sectors. Now taking a look at the losers yesterday, as I said it was pretty broad-based and led by Procter & Gamble (URL: http://www.pg.com/) . Down 26 7/16 at 61. Really some huge losses there. 

 GE (URL: http://www.ge.com) down 7 1/2. 

 J.P. Morgan (URL: http://www.jpmorgan.com/) down almost 5. 

 3M (URL: http://www.mmm.com/) down 4 1/2. 

 Hewlett-Packard (URL: http//www.hp.com/) down 31/2. 

 Household products sector getting slammed as well. It was not just Procter & Gamble specific. That had been the big scramble after the profit warning yesterday was try to decide was this going to be limited to P&G or if what could happen to Procter & gamble could happen to anybody, right? That`s what some people were saying. So, household products say a pullback as well, except for Avon (URL: http://www.avon.com/)  looked like it bucks the trend with almost 1/2 point gain. But you take a look at Colgate-Palmolive (URL: http://www.colgate.com/) down more than 6. 

 Gillette (URL: http://www.gillette.com/) down more than 2. 

 Kimberly-Clark (URL: http://www.kimberly-clark.com/) down more than 5. A lot of damage done all the way around. Talk to one analyst earlier today, Jack, and asked him what do you think about today, can we get a rally? Is it time to buy P&G? He said listen, a lot of these old line stocks, they are undervalued but they can stay undervalued just as long as the technology heavy Nasdaq can stay overvalued. So, you have to look at that. He said also today`s there`s this risk of margin call related selling. I`m going to keep asking around  about that. That`s sort of an interesting idea that maybe there might people you might be forced to close out some positions to meet some margin calls. We`ll so if that is something that pans out. But at least for now, they`re looking like a little bit of a bounce on the opening on the idea that yesterday was just way over done on the downside. Technically there was a lot of damage now, Jack.  Back to you. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc.  ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by  eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No license  is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in  such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other  proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from  CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document befh000020010803dw38000oq
 

 

 Dow Ends Up 60.50; Nasdaq Up 49.42 

 By EILEEN GLANTON 
AP Business Writer
834 words
8 March 2000
AP Online
ASP
English
 Copyright 2000 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Stocks finished a turbulent session mostly higher Wednesday after the Federal Reserve's latest assessment of the economy reassured investors who were still uneasy following Tuesday's huge selloff. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 60.50 to close at 9,856.53, recovering some of the 374 points it lost Tuesday. The Nasdaq composite index, which had tumbled as much as 125 points in early trading Wednesday, finished up 49.42 at 4,897.26. 

 Broader stock indicators were mostly higher, with the Standard & Poor's 500 up 11.08 at 1,366.70. But declining stocks were ahead of advancers on the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq Stock Market, a sign that investors remained on edge. 

 The market showed signs of stabilizing in the morning and afternoon although the Dow and the Nasdaq changed direction several times while investors, still stunned by Tuesday's profit warning from Procter & Gamble, tried to determine their next moves. The Nasdaq was in negative territory much of the time. 

 But in late afternoon, some of the market's gains solidified after Fed economists released their "beige book" survey of economic conditions. The Fed found that although workers' wages are rising, there is little evidence of inflation in the overall economy. 

 The report, which central bankers will consider when they meet March 21 to discuss their interest rate policy, calmed investors' fears that rates are headed sharply higher. The Fed has raised rates four times since last June, and Chairman Alan Greenspan has made no secret of his willingness to raise rates further to slow the economy. 

 Interest rate concerns have undermined industrial and financial stocks for weeks, bringing the Dow down sharply from the closing high of 11,722.98 it set in mid-January. With such an atmosphere of uncertainty, Procter & Gamble's warning Tuesday that higher costs for raw materials would depress its earnings completely unnerved investors; they became convinced that profits would suffer at other companies as well. 

 Procter & Gamble remained out of favor Wednesday, falling 3 to 58 and extending its loss of 25 7/16 from Tuesday. 

 Some analysts said investors seemed to believe the blue chips had paid too great a price for Procter & Gamble's warning. 

 "There was no sense to the magnitude of the selloff," said Brian G. Belski, chief investment strategist at George K. Baum & Co. in Kansas City, Mo. "It was an overreaction that has really created some good buying opportunities." 

 On Wednesday, Johnson & Johnson rose 2 1/2 to 71, and Merck rose 2 7/8 to 56 13/16. Drug stocks outside the Dow were higher, too. Bristol-Myers Squibb soared 4 1/4 to 47 3/4 . 

 "Some beaten-up sectors of the market are finally getting some attention," said Francis Gannon, senior vice president and portfolio manager at SunAmerica Asset Management in New York. 

 The Nasdaq's performance was mixed as investors continued taking profits from some of the stocks that propelled the index above 5,000 for a brief time on Tuesday. Technology high-flyer JDS Uniphase fell 11 3/4 to 275 5/8 , and Applied Materials fell 4 3/4 to 179 3/8 . 

 Buyers stepped in by midafternoon to pick up some high-tech favorites. Oracle rose 8 3/16 to 83 1/8 after announcing that it will join with Wal-Mart and Chevron Corp. to launch an online supply exchange for the convenience-store industry. Also, Microsoft rose 2 11/16 to 95 9/16. 

 "You have to continue to buy the stocks that are leading the market, and for the forseeable future, that means technology," Gannon said. 

 The market was also listening closely Wednesday morning as Greenspan spoke to a banking conference in San Antonio, Texas. The Fed chairman warned banks to maintain their lending standards even in the face of strong economic conditions. 

 Greenspan's speech contributed to some nervousness, traders said. While Greenspan did not discuss interest rates or monetary policy, he repeated his concerns about Americans' inflated expectations of the economy. 

 "We have seen growing evidence of credit granted solely on the expectation that current robust conditions will continue indefinitely, with little thought as to how borrowers might perform under more stressful conditions," Greenspan told the group. 

 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 10-to-9 margin on the New York Stock Exchange. On the Nasdaq, five stocks fell for every four that rose. 

 NYSE volume totaled 1.48 billion shares, compared with 1.30 billion in the previous session. 

 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 0.79 to 594.68. 

 Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average fell 0.9 percent. Germany's Xetra DAX index slid 1.0 percent, Britain's FT-SE 100 fell 0.9 percent, and France's CAC-40 closed 1.5 percent lower. 

AP-Wall-Street; D733E8L00

Document asp0000020010804dw3800qwo
 

 

 World Markets Feel Volatile Trading 

 By JOYCE M. ROSENBERG 
AP Business Writer
646 words
8 March 2000
AP Online
ASP
English
 Copyright 2000 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Stock prices stabilized today as a Federal Reserve assessment of the economy reassured nervous investors following Tuesday's huge selloff. 

 The Dow rose 60.50 to 9,856.53, according to preliminary calculations, making up some of the nearly 375 points it lost in Tuesday's plunge. The Nasdaq composite index rose 49.45 to 4,897.25. 

 Both indexes changed direction several times in the morning and early afternoon as traders regrouped after Tuesday's big drop. But both were solidly higher after the Fed released its "beige book" assessment of economic conditions, reporting that while workers' wages are rising, there is little evidence of inflation in the overall economy. 

 The report gave investors their first real impetus to buy today. It convinced them that the Fed, which has raised interest rates four times since June to try to control inflation, might not have to push rates sharply higher in the coming months. 

 Even before Tuesday's drop, which was sparked by a Procter & Gamble warning about disappointing profits, industrial and financial stocks had been falling because of concerns that higher rates would erode company earnings. 

 Still, investors remained uncertain about the outlook for corporate profits after the surprise announcement by Procter & Gamble set off massive selling on Wall Street. The consumer products maker said higher raw materials prices would hurt its profits for the rest of the company's fiscal year. 

 The market was completely unnerved by the fact that even Procter & Gamble, whose products include consumer staples such as Crest toothpaste and Tide detergent, could be vulnerable to earnings problems, and investors began to sell off a broad range of stocks. 

 The Dow lost 374.47 and ended at 9,796.03, its lowest close in nearly a year. It is now down about 14 percent for the year. 

 Even the technology-dominated Nasdaq, which has been relatively immune from profit concerns lately, has been hit hard. The index made a brief foray past 5,000 for the first time Tuesday, but it eventually fell victim to widespread selling, and analysts said investors uncertain about the market's direction were collecting more profits today. 

 Still, the Nasdaq, which has outperformed the Dow for months as investors scooped up high-tech stocks, is up about 20 percent so far this year. 

 The markets watched closely today as Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan spoke at a banking conference. However, analysts said his comments, which focused on lending practices of small banks, did not appear to affect stock trading. 

 Overseas markets were also rattled today by Tuesday's drop. 

 In Paris today, the benchmark CAC 95 index fell 1.50 percent, while London's Financial Times-Stock Exchange index slipped 0.86 percent and the Frankfurt Xetra DAX index fell 0.97 percent. 

 In earlier trading in Tokyo and Singapore, stock indexes were able to hold their losses to below 1 percent in volatile trading. 

 Japan's benchmark Nikkei Stock Average, which fell sharply when trading began Wednesday, ended the session at 19,766.80, down 177.44, or 0.89 percent, from the day before. 

 "Judging by what happened in New York overnight, the (Nikkei) market is extremely strong," said Hidenori Karaki, a general manager of stocks at Tokyo-Mitsubishi Personal Securities. 

 In Hong Kong, were down sharply in early trading but turned around late in the session. The blue-chip Hang Seng Index rose 86.07, or 0.5 percent, to 17,951.43, a new closing highs. 

 "Although the U.S. fall was to a large extent due to Procter and Gamble's profit warning, the fall has had strong repercussions in the Hong Kong bourse," said Alex Wong, a research manager at OSK Asia Securities Ltd., as trading began there. 

AP-World-Markets; D733CGBO0

Document asp0000020010804dw3800qrw
 

 

 Selloff gives Wall St. the jitters 

 By combined wire services 
488 words
8 March 2000
Deseret News
DN
C01
English
 Copyright (c) 2000 Deseret News Publishing Co. 

 NEW YORK -- Tuesday's Dow Jones industrials nosedive stood in contrast to a record high on the NASDAQ with the Dow continuing its decline Wednesday. 

 In stocks of local interest at midday, shares of Zions Bancorp, First Security Bank, Questar Corp. and Novell were all trading lower than Tuesday's close. 

 Wall Street remained nervous Wednesday following the huge sell-off Tuesday that pulled the Dow down nearly 375 points. 

 The Dow was off about 50 points at the 9,745 level at midmorning. The NASDAQ composite index continued its pattern of outperforming the blue chip stocks and was up about 9 points at the 4,857 level. 

 Overseas markets were also rattled Wednesday by Tuesday's drop. 

 Investors were uncertain about the outlook for corporate profits after a surprising warning Tuesday from Procter & Gamble set off massive selling on Wall Street. The consumer products maker said higher raw materials prices would hurt its profits for the rest of the company's fiscal year. 

 The market was already uneasy about the earnings outlook for big industrial companies before Procter & Gamble's announcement. It was completely unnerved by the fact that even Procter & Gamble, whose products include consumer staples such as Crest toothpaste and Tide detergent, could be vulnerable to earnings problems, and investors began to sell off a broad range of stocks. 

 The Dow lost 374.47 and ended at 9,796.03, its lowest close in nearly a year. 

 Even the technology-dominated NASDAQ, which has been relatively immune from profit concerns lately, was hit hard. The index made a brief foray past 5,000 for the first time Tuesday, but it eventually fell victim to widespread selling. 

 In Paris on Wednesday, the benchmark CAC 40 index was down 0.09 percent, while London's Financial Times-Stock Exchange index was down 0.55 percent and the Frankfurt Xetra DAX index was down 0.83 percent. 

 In earlier trading in Tokyo and Singapore, stock indexes were able to hold their losses to below 1 percent in volatile trading. 

 Japan's benchmark Nikkei Stock Average, which fell sharply when trading began Wednesday, ended the session at 19,766.80, down 177.44, or 0.89 percent, from the day before. 

 "Judging by what happened in New York overnight, the (Nikkei) market is extremely strong," said Hidenori Karaki, a general manager of stocks at Tokyo-Mitsubishi Personal Securities. 

 In Hong Kong, stocks were down sharply in early trading but turned around late in the session. The blue-chip Hang Seng Index rose 86.07, or 0.5 percent, to 17,951.43, a new closing highs. 

 "Although the U.S. fall was to a large extent due to Procter and Gamble's profit warning, the fall has had strong repercussions in the Hong Kong bourse," said Alex Wong, a research manager at OSK Asia Securities Ltd. 

Document dn00000020010820dw38001qn
 

 NEWS 
 P&G  PROFIT WARNING  SENDS STOCKS TUMBLING 

 From Staff and Wire Reports 
854 words
8 March 2000
Dayton Daily News
DDNW
CITY
1A
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 Dow plummets  nearly 375 points 

 Prices plunged on Wall Street on Tuesday, sending the Dow Jones industrials down nearly 375 points, after Procter & Gamble shocked investors with a warning that its profits will drop far below expectations. The selling spilled over to usually buoyant high-tech stocks and cut short the Nasdaq composite's first foray past 5,000. 

 The Dow fell 374.47 to close at 9,796.03, its fourth-biggest one- day point drop and its lowest close since March 31, 1999. The blue chips were off more than 400 points in late trading before edging higher just before the close. 

 The Nasdaq, which soared more than 100 points to 5,006.78 in early trading, turned lower amid profit-taking and computer-programmed selling that kicked in at the 5,000 mark. The Nasdaq finished down 57.01 at 4,847.84. 

 Broader stock indicators also fell sharply. The Standard & Poor's 500 fell 35.66 to 1,355.62, and the Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 6.17 to 595.47. 

 Blue-chip stocks sank after consumer products maker Procter & Gamble issued a dramatic warning, saying it expects fiscal third- quarter earnings of 64 or 65 cents per share, well below the 78 cents per share that Wall Street analysts were expecting. The company, whose products include Iams premium pet foods, Pamper diapers and Tide detergent, also said profits would be off for the entire second half of its year. The company blamed higher costs for oil and pulp, raw materials critical in the manufacture of many of its products. Procter & Gamble's stock tumbled 25 7/16 to 62, accounting for nearly 130 points of the Dow's decline. 

 The news unnerved investors already anxious about profits at blue- chip and industrial companies, especially with most big corporations scheduled to report first-quarter earnings next month. The rest of March is likely to be particularly nerve-wracking for Wall Street, because it is during the last few weeks of a quarter that companies issue warnings about disappointing profits. Richard McCabe, chief market analyst at Merrill Lynch, said P&G's struggles with rising costs of materials might have sparked worries that inflation is beginning to accelerate at the most basic levels of the economy. 

 "You need their soap and shampoo no matter what the economy is doing," McCabe said. Yet those companies will be unable to maintain or increase profits if the cost of oil and other materials continues to escalate, he said. 

 Merrill Lynch downgraded its ratings on the entire consumer products sector, depressing stocks including Colgate Palmolive and Kimberly Clark. Those companies have not issued any warnings about earnings, but Colgate Palmolive fell 6 1/16 to 46 3/4 and Kimberly Clark fell 5 1/4 to 45 3/8 . 

 With the Dow spiraling lower, investors paid little note to the Nasdaq's first trip past 5,000. The technology-dominated index crossed 5,000 just over two months after its first close above 4,000. 

 In a bet that technology stocks are best prepared to thrive even if the Federal Reserve continues raising interest rates this year, investors have been buying those shares at the expense of nearly every other corner of the market. 

 The Nasdaq stocks first withstood the selling in the rest of the market Tuesday, but then succumbed during the afternoon. Still, the Nasdaq is still up about 19 percent in the year to date, compared with a loss of about 15 percent for the Dow. 

 Analysts said the Nasdaq's incredible gains have left it vulnerable to investors eager to collect some profits. 

 "The Nasdaq has a history of having trouble penetrating major new barriers," said Robert Stovall, market analyst at Prudential Securities. "There's a strong impulse to take profits, because it seems unbelievable that this thing can keep running." 

 A $21 billion merger stimulated the technology sector. VeriSign Inc., a leading provider of Internet encryption technology, is buying Network Solutions Inc., best known as a registry for domain names on the Internet. Network Solutions soared 46 49/64 to 407 25/64, while VeriSign fell 47 7/16 to 200. Local money managers and stock brokers said they fielded calls Tuesday from concerned investors, but clients were asking strategic questions, not pressing the panic button. 

 "There doesn't seem to be much alarm in our client base," said Arvind Sachdeva, director of research for Dean Investment Associates. 

 Brokers at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter told investors to be patient and avoid basing investment decisions on emotion, said Doug Cline, senior vice president and Dayton branch manager. The drop in the market may actually create some bargains as share prices for good companies dip below their actual value, he said. 

 Sachdeva said today's shareholders seem to be less forgiving of lower earnings. P&G's announcement that it would miss earnings estimates may have shaved only 10 percent from the stock price a year ago, he said. 

Document ddnw000020010805dw380075b
 

 

 Procter and Gamble plunges on  profit warning  ATTENTION - UPDATES with markets closing /// 

525 words
8 March 2000
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 NEW YORK, March 7 (AFP) - Procter and Gamble shares lost nearly one-third of its value Tuesday after the consumer products giant warned it would not meet profit estimates. 

 P and G shares closed 27-7/16 dollars lower at 60 dollars, a 31 percent plunge that accounted for 136 points of the Dow's 374-point fall. The Dow dropped 3.68 percent Tuesday, ending the session at 9,796.03. 

 Merrill Lynch, JP Morgan and DLJ all downgraded P and G shares on Tuesday. 

 The group, a maker of brand-name detergents, pharmaceuticals and food, warned that profits in the quarter to June 30 would be 10 to 11 percent lower than the year-ago figure, having earlier projected it would be seven to nine percent higher. 

 It remained positive about its 2001 results, however, predicting a six to eight percent revenue growth, and rise in earnings per share of 13-15 percent. 

 The situation, P and G said, was due to an increase in raw materials prices, especially oil derivatives. The group is also facing extra manufacturing, inventory and logistics costs in Europe. 

 Merrill Lynch went on to downgrade other consumer cyclicals stocks, including Colgate, Avon Products, Rayovac, Dial, Clorox, and Alberto Culver, citing its concerns over escalating raw material costs and competition in emerging markets. 

 Merrill Lynch said that other profit warnings in the sector are possible. 

 The share prices of other household products blue chips also fell. Colgate-Palmolive ended the session down 6-1/16 dollars at 46-3/4, and Kimberly Clark was down 5-7/16 at 45-3/16, despite the two companies' attempts to reassure analysts that they would not need to revise their first-quarter 2000 estimates. 

 Clorox lost 3-15/16 dollars to 36-1/8, Dial shed one dollar to 14- 3/4, and Johnson and Johnson lost 3-1/2 to 67 dollars. The American Depository Receipts of the  Anglo-Dutch household product group Unilever slipped 3-5/16 to 41-11/16 dollars. 

 Procter and Gamble was down nearly 50 percent from its mid- January price of 117-3/4 dollars. 

 It was later in January, however, when P and G had another rough passage, its stocks losing 12 percent of their value by the third week in January to end at 102-4/16 on January 21. 

 This was due to talk of the group's possible merger with one of two US pharmaceuticals, Warner-Lambert and American Home Depot. 

 P and G's announcement on January 24 that talks had been terminated did little to halt the slide in its value. 

 Chief executive Durk Jager said the company remains confident that the improvements it is making through Organization 2005 plan, along with renewed cost focus, will create stronger growth. 

 "This has been a transition year. Going forward we are going to focus on P and G basics -- hard-nosed cost management and commitment to deliver expectations -- as well as accelerating sales growth. We have a strong new product pipeline," he said. 

 cs-vl/jlp-eb/gs 

Document afpr000020010803dw3800z84
 

 

Crash fears as Dow Jones takes a plunge  

158 words
8 March 2000
Daily Mail
DAIM
1ST
83
English
(c) 2000 Associated Newspapers. All rights reserved  

US SHARE prices slumped last night to take the Dow Jones index down a hefty 416 points at one stage, raising fears of the market crash which bears have long feared. 'New economy' stocks were less hard hit, though the Nasdaq index fell sharply after reaching a record 5006 early in the day.  

Warnings from US regulator Arthur Levitt about overvaluation, and from Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan about higher interest rates came on top of Procter and Gamble's profit warning.  

Following the Procter statement, brokers cut their earnings forecasts for all household product and cosmetics companies.  

US fund manager Roy Blumberg said: 'A good piece of the old economy is not doing so well. But it will take a lot from the Fed to slow the tech rally.'  

The Dow closed 374 points lower at 9796. It has fallen 17pc since its 11,723 peak in January.  

949567560

Document DAIM000020061027dw38001d8
 

Newscast: Blue chip roller coaster unlikely to stabilize until tech stocks settle   

240 words
8 March 2000
CBS News: The Early Show
CBST
English
(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

JULIE CHEN, anchor:   

The question on investors' minds this morning is whether the stock market will pull out of Tuesday's nosedive. CBS MarketWatch re--reporter Alexis Christoforous is at the New York Stock Exchange.   

Alexis, good morning.   

ALEXIS CHRISTOFOROUS reporting:   

Good morning, Julie.   

Well, market watchers are expecting a rebound here on Wall Street as investors go fishing for bargains following yesterday's blue chip free-fall. Now ongoing interest rate worries, together with soaring crude oil prices and that profit warning from  Procter & Gamble yesterday rattled investors, sending the Dow to its biggest--to its fourth biggest point loss ever.   

Meantime, tech stocks continue to do no wrong as the NASDAQ blasted through the 5,000 level for the first time ever. Meantime, economy-sensitive stocks continue to get slammed on concern that higher interest rates will hurt corporate profits. But until the high-flying NASDAQ can reach a plateau, analysts say we won't see money rotate back into the blue chips. But if you're in it for the long haul, analysts say ride out the roller coaster and treat the dips as a buying opportunity. At the New York Stock Exchange, I'm Alexis Christoforous, CBS MarketWatch.   

CHEN: Thanks a lot, Alexis.   

And that is the news this morning. Now here's Jane.   

JANE CLAYSON (Co-host): All right, Julie. Thank you.   

Document CBST000020070818dw38001bz
 

 

 Business; Financial Desk 
 Dow Plunges 374 on P&G's  Profit Warning  Wall Street: Earnings bombshell from the consumer products giant clobbers 'old economy' stocks; oil surges again. 

 WALTER HAMILTON; THOMAS S. MULLIGAN 
TIMES STAFF WRITERS
1,531 words
8 March 2000
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-1
English
 Copyright 2000 / The Times Mirror Company 

 Wall Street's rush out of "old economy" stocks intensified dramatically Tuesday as a surprise earnings warning from consumer products giant Procter & Gamble sparked a frantic sell-off among old-line industrial and manufacturing companies. 

 The Dow's 374.47-point, or 3.7%, plunge to 9,796.03 raised fears that the decline among non-technology stocks is accelerating, and overshadowed an early-morning jump by the tech-heavy Nasdaq composite index above the 5,000 mark. An afternoon sell-off tugged the Nasdaq down 57.01 points, or 1.2%, to 4,847.84. 

 Early today in Asia major stock markets were mostly lower, but the damage was minor considering the extent of the Dow's loss--and considering the latest jump in oil prices, to more than $34 a barrel. The Hong Kong market was off 0.7% at midday. The Japanese market eased 0.6%. 

 Shares of P&G, one of the 30 stocks in the Dow index, lost nearly one-third of their value after the maker of Crest toothpaste, Bounty paper towels and other brand-name products shocked Wall Street by saying that rising raw-material costs would crimp its third-quarter earnings. 

 The announcement spooked investors, who read it as proof that the prospects for traditional consumer and industrial stocks are deteriorating quickly, particularly as oil prices rise and the Federal Reserve boosts interest rates. 

 The P&G news is likely to speed a shift in which mutual funds and other professional investors dump "old economy" issues in favor of tech names in the hope that "new economy" stocks can prop up their faltering returns, analysts say. 

 Many fund managers have already been forced to unload old-line stocks because of growing redemptions by their individual investor shareholders. And given that the stocks show little sign of rebounding soon, many funds appear to have recently stepped up their move to the tech sector in the hope of holding on to their current shareholders by boosting returns. 

 "If you're a money manager, your job is on the line. You've got to get into the next 30-point gainer," said Scott Bleier, chief investment strategist at Prime Charter Ltd. P&G's warning simply "cements the perception that you've got to sell the slow growers and buy what's hot." 

 That has fed a widening divergence in the market between the "old economy" stocks of the Dow and, to a lesser degree, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, and Nasdaq. The S&P is down almost 8% from its Dec. 31 all-time high, after falling 2.6% on Tuesday, and the Dow is down 16.4% from its mid-January high. But Nasdaq has powered up 19% this year, thanks to soaring tech stocks large and small. 

 The selling was heavy Tuesday, with more than 1.3 billion shares changing hands on the New York Stock Exchange and more than 2.1 billion on Nasdaq, the second-busiest day ever for both markets. 

 The Dow's decline was the fourth-biggest ever in point terms, and the biggest percentage drop since Aug. 31, 1998. Combined with Monday's loss, the two-day drop was the fifth-largest ever in percentage terms, at 5.5%. 

 Some experts were startled by the magnitude of the drop in a stock the size of P&G, which is the 36th-largest stock in the S&P 500. Its loss erased a whopping $36 billion worth of market value. 

 The P&G plunge may be a sign that the extreme volatility that has been a hallmark of the Nasdaq market is seeping into the NYSE. On Monday, shares of NYSE-traded Agilent Technologies surged 47%--a huge one-day gain for a Big Board stock--after the company announced technology to boost fiber-optic networks. 

 Old-economy stocks, including manufacturers and banks, have suffered as the Federal Reserve has raised interest rates over the last six months to blunt nascent inflationary pressures. The Fed is expected to again raise rates when it meets March 21. 

 Some on Wall Street question whether Federal Reserve chief Alan Greenspan is meeting his widely perceived goal of curbing the stock market as a way to slow the economy. Rather than clipping tech highfliers, investors have scurried into the sector in the belief that it's the only one with enough growth to withstand higher interest rates. 

 P&G's announcement also focused new attention on budding inflationary pressures. Merrill Lynch & Co. downgraded the household-products sector following the P&G warning, arguing that rising oil and paper prices are exacting a toll on the companies. 

 Oil prices continued to rocket on Tuesday, with near-term futures in New York soaring $1.95 to a nine-year high of $34.13 a barrel, on fears that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries won't increase supplies enough to prevent shortages. 

 The extent of the collateral damage from P&G's bombshell seemed excessive to some market watchers. Several analysts noted, for example, that Kimberly-Clark and Colgate-Palmolive each plunged more than 10%, despite their insistence that they were confident of achieving Wall Street's profit projections. 

 "With oil hitting $34 a barrel, there will be higher materials costs for all big multinationals, but the impact will be even more severe for those like P&G in an intensely competitive arena with slow unit growth," said Thomas M. Galvin, chief equity strategist for Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette. 

 But even as investors run to technology and other new-economy stocks, some analysts question that logic. 

 Higher interest rates may cool spending by old-economy companies on Internet infrastructure, software, wireless equipment and other products offered by the highflying tech firms, some warn. 

 "The new economy has to sell to somebody," said Arthur Micheletti, chief investment strategist at Bailard Biehl & Kaiser in San Mateo, Calif. "These stocks don't exist in a vacuum--even though they look like it now." 

 DLJ's Galvin disagreed. 

 After Tuesday's earnings warning, he removed P&G from its place on the firm's "focus list" of recommended stocks, replacing it with FreeMarkets, a company that organizes online auctions to help large industrial firms save money on parts and materials. 

 If industrial America is indeed being squeezed by rising rates, Galvin said, it may move even more quickly to seek cost-cutting answers from technology companies. 

 The news that oil prices had climbed to $34 a barrel may have a longer-lasting effect than P&G's warning, according to Christine Callies, chief investment officer at Credit Suisse First Boston. 

 Tuesday's market plunge indicated to her that "investors are finally paying attention to inflation." 

 Heavy fuel users, such as airlines, are first to be hurt by rising oil, but inflation fears typically spread to "stable growers," including blue-chip members of such sectors as soft drinks, cosmetics and pharmaceuticals, Callies said. 

 Among the day's highlights: 

 * Industrial blue chips down sharply included GE, off $7.50 to $129.94; DuPont, down $3.44 to $46.31; and 3M, down $4.50 to $82.75. Many drug, airline and retail stocks also were hammered. 

 * On the plus side, energy stocks zoomed as crude soared. Exxon Mobil rocketed $7.06 to $80, Texaco gained $3.63 to $50.25 and Chevron surged $7 to $81. 

 * In the tech sector, Terayon Communication Systems rose $23.19 to $253.13, as the company said it expects earnings in its fiscal first quarter to exceed analysts' expectations. Terayon cited increased demand for its broadband networking systems. 

 Among Southland tech stocks, Power-One rallied $7.44 to $55.88 and Stamps.com rocketed $6.13 to $29.69, but Leap Wireless lost $10.13 to $78.63. 

 * 

 Market Roundup, C8 

 (BEGIN TEXT OF INFOBOX / INFOGRAPHIC) 

 Consumed by Selling 

 Shares of major consumer product companies, once the darlings of Wall Street, have fallen dramatically in the last year as earnings have stalled and investors have focused increasingly on technology. A sampling of leading consumer stocks, ranked by percentage decline from their 52-week high. 


                                                       %
                                                 decline
                   Ticker  Tuesday  Tuesday  from 52-wk.
Company            symbol    close  decline         high
Dial                   DL   $14.50   -$1.25         -62%
Philip Morris          MO    19.56    -0.31          -55
Gillette                G    32.44    -2.44          -50
Procter & Gamble       PG    61.00   -26.44          -48
Unilever               UN    41.69    -3.31          -47
Clorox                CLX    36.25    -3.81          -44
Am. Home Products     AHP    41.50    -5.38          -41
Johnson & Johnson     JNJ    68.50    -2.00          -36
Kimberly-Clark        KMB    45.38    -5.25          -35
Coca-Cola              KO    47.13    -1.88          -34
Anheuser-Busch        BUD    56.56    -3.69          -33
Colgate-Palmolive      CL    46.75    -6.06          -30



Source: Bloomberg News


 GRAPHIC-TABLE: Consumed by Selling, Los Angeles Times;  ; GRAPHIC-CHART: Daily Diary, Los Angeles Times; 

Document latm000020010808dw3800hok
 

 

 Economics 
 Nasdaq touches 5,000 before falling 1.2% 

 News agencies 
1,477 words
8 March 2000
The Jerusalem Post
JPST
Daily
13
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 WALL STREET 

 The Dow Jones industrials plummeted nearly 375 points yesterday after an earnings warning from Procter and Gamble unnerved investors already worried about profits at blue- chip and industrial companies. The Dow's plunge dragged the broader market lower and overshadowed the Nasdaq composite index's first foray past 5,000. 

 The Dow fell 374.47, or 3.7 percent, to close at 9,796.03, its fourth-biggest one-day point drop and its lowest close since March 31, 1999. The Dow was off than 400 points in late trading before edging higher just before the close. 

 The Nasdaq, which had soared more than 100 points to 5,006.78 in early trading, finished lower as profit-taking and computer-driven trading that kicked in at the 5,000 mark sapped its strength. 

 Broader indicators were mostly lower. 

 The Nasdaq composite index fell 57.01 to 4,847.84 and the Standard and Poor's 500 fell 35.66 to 1,355.62. 

 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a two-to-one margin on the New York Stock Exchange, with 2,104 down, 982 up, and 422 unchanged. 

 NYSE volume totaled 1.30 billion shares as of 4 p.m., vs. 1.03 billion in the previous session. 

 Blue-chip stocks sank after Procter and Gamble handed Wall Street analysts a dramatic profit warning for the second half of its fiscal year. The consumer goods company said earnings will fall sharply, missing analysts' expectations as well as its own estimates, because of higher costs of pulp and raw materials. 

 Procter and Gamble's announcement fed investor fears that other blue-chip and industrial companies might warn of similar troubles in the coming weeks. Companies are scheduled to report their first- quarter earnings next month. 

 Exxon Mobil was the sole blue-chip beneficiary of the latest rise in oil prices, which stoked inflation fears in the rest of the group. Microsoft rose following a positive report from a Goldman Sachs analyst. 

 With the Dow spiraling lower, investors paid little note to the Nasdaq's first trip past 5,000. The technology- dominated index crossed 5,000 just over two months after its first close above 4,000. 

 SHARES 

 TEL AVIV 

 Stocks fell yesterday, led by Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. and other companies whose shares slumped in the US on concern the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates. 

 The benchmark Maof index of the 25 largest companies fell 1.9 percent to 552.87 after slipping 0.1% yesterday. Two stocks fell for every one that rose. 

 Dead Sea Works Ltd. rose 7.6% to NIS 17.62. Israel Chemicals Ltd. offered NIS 576 million for the 10.8% of the potash-maker it doesn't already own. Israel Chemicals rose 3.4% to 4.90. 

 Teva fell 5.8% to 174.4. Its American depositary receipts tumbled 8.4% as US stocks dropped after Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said he will keep raising rates to slow inflation. The company was also hurt by news that competitor Mylan Laboratories Inc. settled a lawsuit and would begin selling a generic hypertension treatment. 

 Super-Sol Ltd. fell 0.1% to 14.80 after it said fourth-quarter profit rose 22%, as expected, after a new distribution center helped reduce the cost of delivering products to its 138 stores. 

 EUROPE 

 UK electricity stocks fell after two US companies warned of disappointing profits and blamed a drop in UK power prices. Paper, mining, and steel stocks dropped on concern higher interest rates in the US will sap demand for their products. 

 Unilever Plc tumbled after rival Procter & Gamble Co. warned earnings will miss forecasts. Dixons Group Plc and British Telecommunications Plc fell as they face increased competition from companies offering Internet and phone services. 

 The benchmark FT-SE 100 index dropped 101.3 points to 6466.5, falling for the first time in six days. PowerGen Plc dropped 62 pence to 367.75 and Arjo Wiggins Appleton Plc, a maker of writing paper, slid 14p to 150. Unilever fell 33.5p to 347.25. 

 "I'm not that favorable on steel or paper stocks and we hold no electricity shares," said Max Ward, head of equities at Baillie Gifford & Co. The most economically sensitive shares "won't start to come back until there's a clear sense that interest rates have stopped increasing." 

 PowerGen slid after Edison International and Entergy Corp said earnings may disappoint and blamed a drop in UK power prices. Edison lost a third of its value in the US yesterday. 

 National Power Plc declined 26p to 328.5 and British Energy Plc, the UK's largest power generator, fell 27.5p to 212. 

 British Energy said repair work and outages will weigh on revenue in the first few months of fiscal 2001. 

 ASIA 

 Japanese stocks rose, led by Internet-related companies such as Softbank Corp., in anticipation of buying by two new funds that aim to build their portfolio with shares they expect to see rapid earnings growth. 

 The broad Topix index rose 15.70, or 1%, to 1665.53, while the Nikkei 225 stock average added 0.8% to 19,944.24. 

 Automakers also rose, paced by Mitsubishi Motors Corp., on a report that DaimlerChrysler AG may buy a 30% stake in it, creating the world's third-largest automaker. 

 "Fund managers have money they need to put to work," said Robert Sasaki, head of quantitative strategy group at Jardine Fleming Securities Ltd. "Softbank is a 'New Japan' stock and they will continue to buy 'New Japan' stocks." 

 In other markets, Singapore's Straits Times Index fell 1.4%, paced by banks and developers on concerns higher interest rates will slow demand for loans and homes. 

 Australia's All Ordinaries index rose 0.6% to a record close, led by miners, such as Rio Tinto Ltd., on optimism faster global economic growth will boost commodity prices and corporate profits this year. 

 Hong  Kong's Hang Seng Index rose 0.6%, led by Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd., as a 30% decline in its stock this year until March 2 raised speculation its shares may be the target of buying. 

 Softbank, one's of the world's largest backers of on- line investments, jumped 15% to 135,000 yen, after falling to as low as 106,000 yen. Hikari Tsushin Inc., which sells cellular phone handsets and e-mail services, also shot up in late trading, rising 9.2% to 154,000 yen. 

 CURRENCIES 

 The British pound climbed against the dollar, reversing earlier losses, after the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell more than 300 points in early trading yesterday. 

 The pound rose as high as $1.5800 from $1.5727 before US stocks opened. Sterling earlier fell to a seven-month low of $1.5696. Against the euro it was little changed at 60.82 pence from 60.94 pence. 

 "The Dow got creamed after the Procter & Gamble report, and as a result the dollar finally sat up to take notice," said Steve Barrow, a currency strategist at Bear Stearns International. 

 Still, "sterling will probably fall to $1.54 or $1.55 in coming months with relative interest rate perceptions in the US and UK not doing it any good." 

 Procter & Gamble Co., the largest US maker of household products, warned that second-half earnings will miss forecasts, sending its shares down by a third, and prompting the Dow to fall more than 3%. The US stock average is down almost 14% so far this year. By contrast, the technology-rich Nasdaq Composite Index has gained about 20% this year. 

 COMMODITIES 

 METALS 

 Palladium for June delivery  was unchanged at $650 an ounce on the New York Mercantile Exchange as traders waited for shipments of the metal out of Russia. Prices earlier fell as much as $17.10, or 2.6%, to $632.90 an ounce, after a Reuters report that Valery Rudakov, who heads Russia's state reserve Gokhran, again confirmed that Russian Acting President Vladimir Putin signed export quotas for the metal. Disruptions to exports from Russia sent prices to record highs last month. Traders said they began to question whether the export quotas had actually been signed after The Wall Street Journal reported Monday that the government wouldn't comment on the initial reports of the signing last week. 

 ENERGY 

 As the US driving season nears, retail gasoline prices, already at record highs, will likely rise even higher to average more than $1.50 a gallon this summer, and some shortages of cleaner-burning fuels are possible, the US government said in a report. Crude oil for April delivery on the New York Mercantile Exchange was up 42 cents at $32.60 a barrel in electronic trading. 

Trading Floors

Document jpst000020010807dw38002rm
 

 

 N.Y. Stocks Settle Down, As Rotation Supports Averages 

 By Robert O'Brien 
1,426 words
8 March 2000
21:24
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Investors scared off by profit shortfalls backed further out of consumer stocks Wednesday, but market averages actually did finish higher, as investors refused to abandon equities. 

 Shares of Clorox lost 2 3/4 to 32 1/2, while Colgate-Palmolive declined 2 13/16 to 43 15/16, and Gillette shed 2 3/8 to 30 1/16. All three names sank to 52-week lows, reflecting investor disdain for poor fundamentals, especially  relating to the profit outlook for the sector, following Tuesday's warning from Procter & Gamble that its earnings this quarter wouldn't live up to expectations. 

 Some hesitation about profits, the economy and interest rates - essentially the whole gamut of fundamentals - showed up in the way stocks traded Wednesday. Investors raised some profits in high-technology leaders that have been a source of  big gains this year. 

 Texas Instruments lost 8 to 172, while Motorola eased 8 1/4 to 169 1/16, and Advanced Micro Devices fell 1/2 to 52 1/8; like a host of names in the semiconductor sector, those had set new highs for the year earlier this week. 

 But far from the wholesale bloodletting that often has accompanied disturbing fundamental news in the past, investors put the money they raised in some of these stocks to work in other parts of the equity market. 

 "I think we're seeing that investors just don't want to be out of this market," Eugene Peroni, market strategist at Nuveen Investments, said Wednesday. "They are willing to make adjustments, to shift position from one sector to another, but not to leave the market entirely." 

 Investors looking for someplace to place the funds they raised in the consumer staples sector settled in drug stocks,  a group of equally attractive valuations, and some appealing  fundamentals. Shares of Bristol-Myers Squibb, which had fallen to a 52-week low Tuesday, gained 3 1/2 to 47, after PaineWebber, in a research report, highlighted the stock's low price and appealing product flow. Ditto for Schering-Plough, another name PaineWebber mentioned, which gained 3 7/16 to 33 15/16. Shares of Sepracor, partnered with  Schering-Plough on the Claritin antihistamine, added 8 1/16 to 102, as biotechnology continued to outpace more traditional pharmaceutical makers. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average, which stumbled 374.47 points Tuesday on the Procter & Gamble earnings warning, inched back up, gaining 60.50, a rise of 0.62%, to end at 9856.53. 

 The final Dow Jones Industrial Average close was 9856.53,  up 60.50. On the New York Stock Exchange, there were 1,437 issues advancing, 1,538 declining and 477 unchanged. 

 NYSE volume totaled 1,193,969,590 shares, compared with 1,298,691,150 Tuesday. 

 The NYSE Composite Index was 591.23, up 2.66. The average  price per share rose 18 cents. 

 While semiconductor names lost ground Wednesday, software  and Internet names took up the slack. Shares of Tumbleweed Communications advanced 9 11/16 to 94 13/16, New Era of Networks added 8 13/16 to 81 1/2, Puma Technology rose 18 1/4  to 183, and Pinnacle Systems moved up 7 to 55, all on Nasdaq. 

 VeriSign gained 3 to 203, Priceline.com improved 8 15/16 to 87 9/16, Voicestream Wireless added 18 1/2 to 138 3/8, and  Kana Communications climbed 27 1/2 to 163 1/2, all on Nasdaq, while, away from Nasdaq, Safeguard Scientifics moved 25 1/4 higher to 214 1/4. 

 The Nasdaq Composite Index, benefitting from the improvement in several of those technology areas, closed the session 49.33 points higher, a rise of 1.02%, to 4897.17, reviving hopes that the index could again pierce the 5,000-point mark, a milestone it broached intraday Tuesday. 

 Crude oil prices declined in the session, pulling back from the highs reached earlier this week. Rising crude prices  had been a source of some inflation worries for the broad market, and a source of fundamental concern for companies exposed to higher fuel costs. 

 Oil producers themselves took the news relatively well. Exxon Mobil fell, but modestly, down 3/8 at 79 5/8. Texaco kept its loss to 1/4 at 50. Chevron finished 1/16 higher at 81 1/16. Atlantic Richfield even managed to rally, gaining 5 3/8 to 81; sources said the energy giant's refinery at Cherry  Point, Wash., where it had cut production 20% last month because of inadequate storage space, resumed operating at its level of three weeks ago. 

 Transportation stocks, many of which had been dropped to 52-week lows on the worries that higher fuel costs would cut into profits, staged a recovery. AMR gained 3 3/16 to 54 11/16. US Airways Group moved ahead 3 9/16 to 21 3/16. Delta Air Lines rose 3 7/8 to 47 1/2. The Dow Jones Transportation Average finished with a gain of nearly 4%, up 88.94, to end at 2352.53. 

 The trading session proved painful for oil-service stocks. Baker Hughes fell 2 7/16 to 26 5/8. Credit Suisse First Boston lowered its rating on the Houston company's stock. 

 Cooper Cameron lost 3 7/16 to 65 13/16, after a sharp runup Tuesday carried the stock to a 52-week high. Halliburton fell 4 5/8 to 39 7/8, Schlumberger declined 5 1/8  to 77 1/16, and Transocean Sedco Forex lost 5 1/4 to 44, after it got up to a 52-week high Tuesday. Donaldson Lufkin &  Jenrette issued a downbeat research report on the sector, saying that high prices for crude oil, though a short-term positive for the group, ultimately would shorten any cycle of  expanded exploration. 

 Cardinal Health gained 1 9/16 to 38 3/4 in a session that  proved accommodating to health-care issues. George K. Baum, a Kansas City brokerage, started coverage of the Dublin, Ohio, drug distributor. 

 TMP Worldwide gained 3 7/16 to 91 1/2 on Nasdaq. The New York executive recruiter posted fiscal fourth quarter earnings late Tuesday that topped Wall Street's forecasts. PaineWebber raised its earnings estimates on the stock Wednesday, and raised its price target to 130 from 110. 

 UPS added 3 11/16 to 55 5/16. Warburg Dillon Read raised its rating on the Atlanta package delivery concern, saying that worries about rising fuel prices, one fundamental drag on the stock recently, have been overdone; Warburg said that,  by hedging, the company limits its exposure to higher fuel costs. 

 Black & Decker rose 1 5/16 to 31 1/16. Lehman Brothers issued an upbeat research report on the Towson, Md., power-tools maker, saying that it expected the company to meet or exceed the firm's aggressive earnings forecasts, and that the stock is priced well below its intrinsic value, given its growth profile. 

 Cruise line operators sank to 52-week lows, after Lehman Brothers lowered its earnings forecasts for both Carnival, which fell 9/16 to 23 15/16, and Royal Caribbean Cruises, which dropped 31/32 to 26 51/64. 

 Seagram declined 3 3/16 to 57 13/16. The Montreal spirits  maker and entertainment concern issued an earnings outlook. 

 Oracle increased 8 3/16 to 83 1/2 on Nasdaq. The Redwood Shores, Calif., database software developer said it planned to set up an electronic business-to-business marketplace, this with Chevron and Wal-Mart Stores' McLane unit, which distributes products to convenience stores. The operation is expected to focus on the convenience store business. Chevron added 1/16 to 81 1/16, while Wal-Mart Stores improved 3/4 to 48 5/16. 

 Whittman-Hart moved up 2 9/16 to 50 1/4 on Nasdaq. Credit  Suisse First Boston reinstated coverage of the Chicago information technology company with a strong buy rating. 

 Comverse Technology declined 7/8 to 221 1/4, despite sharp intraday gains. Late Tuesday, the Woodbury, N.Y., telecommunications equipment concern reported fiscal fourth quarter results that beat forecasts, and declared a 2-for-1 stock split. Lehman Brothers, in a research note, increased its earnings forecasts and price target on the stock. 

 WatchGuard Technologies added 12 1/2 to 79 on Nasdaq, reaching a 52-week high. Warburg Dillon Read raised its price  target on shares of the Seattle provider of Internet security services. 

Document dj00000020010805dw380129x
 

 

 SMARTMONEY.COM: Pummeled By Procter & Gamble 

 By Paul R. La Monica 
1,013 words
8 March 2000
13:00
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


Smartmoney.com
     (This article originally appeared late Tuesday)



NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Cheer up, Procter & Gamble (PG) shareholders. It
could be worse. Imagine how bad the earnings would be if P&G had decided
to go through with that massively dilutive acquisition of Warner Lambert
(WLA) and American Home Products (AHP) after all.


 P&G's profit warning sent shockwaves through the market today - even technology stocks shuddered a bit. The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed down 374.47 points, or 3.68% - its fourth-largest point loss ever; the Standard & Poor 500 index ended down 35.66 points, or 2.56%; and the Nasdaq, after cracking the 5000 mark for the first time, turned tail and sank 57.01 points, or 1.6%. Poor P&G itself plunged from $87.44 to $60.06, losing 31.38% of its value in a single day. 

 But why all the furor over what was, after all, a relatively mild earnings warning from a single company? Well, when you delve into the reasons for P&G's profit worries, there's cause to worry about the health of the entire economy and the market as a whole. The company said its third-quarter earnings would be crimped by, among other things, higher-than-anticipated pulp costs and higher costs of petroleum-based raw materials. That may be music to your ears if your portfolio consists only of forest-products and oil-services stocks, but for the rest of us it certainly can be interpreted as a nasty sign of honest-to-god inflation. 

 Forget about asset inflation. Higher stock prices should be the least of the Fed's concerns right now. Oil is above $33 a barrel (a nine-year high). And several major paper producers announced a 6.3% hike in the price of pulp last month. P&G uses tons of petroleum-based plastics in its Pampers and Pert Plus bottles, and tons of wood pulp to make all those rolls of Bounty and Charmin. And its warning, predictably, brought about a slew of downgrades from disappointed analysts, not just for P&G but also many other consumer stocks. Merrill Lynch, for example, downgraded P&G and seven other consumer companies, including Colgate-Palmolive (CL) and Dial (DL). 

 Now, the $64,000 question here is whether this is just another example of P&G tripping over itself or if this is really a sign of inflation rearing its ugly head - despite the four rate hikes from Alan Greenspan. Could the Fed use this example of a blue chip crumbling under the weight of higher commodity costs as a reason to tighten even more than the market was expecting? 

 Rising costs of raw materials have to be a big concern. For now, at least, P&G has effectively said that it can't, or won't, raise its prices to consumers in order to recoup its higher raw-materials costs. Hey, the competition's fierce out there. But you have to wonder how long it will be before the P&Gs, Coca-Colas (KO) and Cloroxes (CLX) of the world try to pass their higher expenses along to the consumer. Tangible evidence of inflation on the producer and consumer side of the equation would certainly scare the Fed into an even more hawkish mode. 

 Then again, P&G and others in the sector may have little choice but to bite the bullet and absorb those higher costs - at the expense of their earnings. In its downgrade of the entire sector, Merrill Lynch expressed concern about how difficult it will be for any of these consumer stocks to offset rising raw-material prices. So, is it possible that only the companies, and their shareholders, will suffer. 

 Interestingly enough, though, some consumer companies rushed to distance themselves from the P&G earnings warning. Colgate-Palmolive put out a press release saying that it backed the first-quarter and full-year earnings expectations of Wall Street, and in a seemingly direct response to P&G's warning said: 'Current and projected increases in raw-material and other costs will be more than offset by our extensive worldwide cost-savings initiatives.' 

 But Kimberly-Clark (KMB), the maker of Kleenex, announced today that it was increasing the price of some of its tissue products in anticipation of higher raw-material costs. Kimberly-Clark also said it was comfortable with the Street's earnings estimates. When it comes down to it, P&G's earning warning really just complicates matters for the Fed. And it's another reason you can't look at one piece of news in isolation. The market reaction to today's news is just as dramatic and lopsided (albeit in the other direction) as the reaction to Friday's sanguine jobs report for February. 

 To make matters even more confusing, this morning also brought the release of revised fourth-quarter productivity figures. Those numbers offered evidence that the economy is continuing to grow without any worrisome signs of inflation. Unit labor costs - the cost to actually produce goods and services - declined 2.5% in the fourth quarter, the biggest drop in more than seven years. 

 So what now? Do the inflationary effects of rising raw-material costs outweigh the disinflationary effects of slowing job and wage growth and rising productivity? My guess is that the Fed will raise rates again at the end of this month. After that, all bets are off. But it's become clear that something has to give. If more consumer giants start confronting the prospect of shrinking earnings, we may all start seeing higher prices for soda, cereal, diapers and just about everything else in the supermarket. 

 Priceline.com (PCLN) might not find that development troubling. But trust me, the Fed won't be smiling. 

 For more information and analysis of companies and mutual funds, visit SmartMoney.com at http://www.smartmoney.com/

Document dj00000020010805dw38011r9
 

 Business 
 IN THE MONEY 

 Bill Tucker, Terry Keenan, Daryn Kagan 
9,730 words
7 March 2000
16:00
CNNfn: In The Money
ITHM
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 BILL TUCKER, CNN ANCHOR:  Nasdaq 5000 take 2!  As the index continues to flirt with the 5K mark, can bullish tech investors push the Nasdaq to new heights? 

 TERRY KEENAN, CNN ANCHOR:  Name registration company Network Solutions snapped up for $21 billion by Verisign.  Should we add the Network Solution name to our portfolio? 

 TUCKER:  Sixteen states up for grabs this Super Tuesday.  Who do voters think is the best candidate to keep the economy humming along? 

 KEENAN:  And why you should act like a venture capitalist when you invest.  Fools tell us how to think VC. 

 ANNOUNCER:  From CNN and CNNfn, this is IN THE MONEY, with Bill Tucker, Terry Keenan, and Daryn Kagan. 

 TUCKER:  Good morning everyone and welcome to IN THE MONEY.  I`m Bill Tucker. 

 KEENAN:  And I`m Terry Keenan.  Daryn Kagan is on assignment today. 

 We have a lot to talk about this morning,  In addition to Super Tuesday, on the election front, it is already shaping up to be a tumultuous Tuesday on Wall Street, as we have already seen the Nasdaq sprint above the 5000 mark for the first time ever.  That was at 9:50 this morning.  At the same time, the Dow has been down almost 300 points. 

 TUCKER:  That is right, 300 points.  The culprit there, Procter & Gamble, the consumer products giant shocking Wall Street with a profitwarning of mammoth proportions.  The company said earnings will be down 10 to 11 percent in the current quarter, over a same period a year ago. 

 KEENAN:  And those cautious words currently wiping about $25 off of P&G`s stock, and erasing an amazing $33 billion in market value. 

 Let`s take a look at the toll on the Dow right now.  We are off our worst levels of the day.  P&G, in fact, is off its worst levels of the session.  It opened down below $60 a share.  Currently, P&G is trading 61 5/8.  And we have no fewer than eight Dow stocks trade at 52-week lows, among them Coca-Cola, International Paper, Merck, and Johnson & Johnson.  The drug stocks continue to be extremely weak, and we are now down 15 percent and change from the all-time high set on the Dow earlier this year. 

 There you see the Nasdaq composite, well off its best levels of the session.  As I mentioned, we were briefly up more than 90 points on the Nasdaq.  That was enough to push that index above 5000, but it only lasted for a minute or two.  Once P&G`s stock opened on the Big Board, it put a damper on the Nasdaq as well. 

 Microsoft, though, is helping both those indices.  Microsoft up more than four.  Rick Sholan (ph) at Goldman Sachs making some positive comments on Microsoft this morning. 

 TUCKER:  And it is worth noting, Terry, you are talking about the 52-week lows that we are seeing in the Dow components.  We got Coca- Cola at a 4-year low, forget a 52-week low.  Caterpillar is down at a 3 1/2-year low.  Eastman Kodak looking at a 2-year low.  So the sell-offs that we are seeing today are dramatic, and they are taking these stocks back down to levels that they have not seen in at least two years. 

 KEENAN:  Incredible, if they are old economy and if they are consumer names, investors are selling them this morning. 

 Lets go to the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, and bring in Rhonda Schaffler. 

 Rhonda, what`s the mood down there? 

 RHONDA SCHAFFLER, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, you know, the mood here is, obviously, not good at all.  I mean, in two days, up to this point, the Dow has erased all of last week`s recovery pretty much, and, now, we are looking at this Procter & Gamble stock, just getting pounded.  I mean, we have seen in the past, when companies give earnings warnings that Wall Street takes a hit on the stock, but this is just a hit on proportions nobody would have imagined with the warning for the third and fourth quarters. 

 By the way, the reasoning behind the fact that earnings are going to be down, there is a long list Procter & Gamble put together.  It is everything from higher pulp costs, higher manufacturing costs in Europe, aggressive competitive pricing in South America.  So there is a host of problems here.  And the stock is really getting battered, and taking about half of the Dow`s total losses with it. 

 You mentioned some other stocks that are under pressure today, Let`s take a look at the Dow losers.  It is a pretty intense list, as far as the variety of stocks here.  We have got American Express down more than 3.  Wal-Mart, this another stock that just doesn`t attract any players even though its earnings growth is on track.  It is down more than 2. Johnson & Johnson off 2 1/2.  GE is down 4.  And Merck down better than $2.50. 

 The Dow transportation index is also getting hit hard for a second straight day.  We have had a sharp run-up in oil prices, and so we are seeing the transports sell-off again.  AMR, the parent of American Airlines, was down 1 7/8.  UAL and Delta each down more than a dollar. CSX, the rail company, is off three-eighths.  And Union Pacific is down 1 5/8. 

 With oil prices rising, heading up close to $33 a barrel, we are starting to see some move into oil stocks.  Schlumberger is up $5. Halliburton up 1 7/8.  Diamond Offshore off 1 11/16.  Transocean and Smith also higher. 

 And one Dow stock that is bucking the overall trend here, and moving higher is Microsoft.  Some Bullish comments coming from Goldman Sachs, today.  Analysts saying that the quarter appears to be on track.  Also some upbeat comments about Windows 2000. 

 And so we are seeing a couple of exceptions in this sell-off here, but not only is the Dow down sharply, in the broader market it is pretty weak too with decliners outpacing advancers by about a 3-to-2 margin -- Bill, Terry. 

 TUCKER:  Rhonda, thanks for that report from the New York Stock Exchange.  You know, Terry, it is interesting to note too we were going through the drillers.  ExxonMobil, the other exception in Dow, it is up about $2 a share. 

 KEENAN:  Yes, the only other Dow stock in positive territory. 

 Let`s go to Nasdaq, where 5000 was brief, but we did have it. 

 Let`s bring in Charles Molineaux with the latest -- Charles. 

 CHARLES MOLINEAUX, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  We hit it, and we bounced off it really severely after getting all way up to 5006, the Nasdaq fell 124 points, all the way down to 4882.  We bounced backed up again, and now we are looking at a gain of 32 points in the Nasdaq. 

 But check out what there sectors are doing.  We are looking at a really uneven performance.  We got computers up 1 1/2.  Telecoms up by a half.  But industrials, financials, banking stocks, transports, insurance stocks are all down today.  Biotechs, one of the really strong sectors, are down by 2.8, almost three percent right now. 

 Take a look at a few of those names because we do have some of these biotech names are showing some real strength.  And if you take a look at how some of these biotechs names are doing, you can see that some of them are doing well.  Abgenix, for example, is up by $27.  It is going to provide millennium pharmaceuticals with access to its technology for creating fully human antibodies.  Abgenix is going to get an undisclosed up front payment, and potential future payments could be as much as $100 million, plus royalties. 

 Cell Therapeutics is also doing very well.  It is up by 3 11/16. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has granted fast-track review status for its cancer drug for the treatment of one kind of leukemia. Fast-track status shortens the drug`s review time usually from a year all the way down to six months.      But look at Biogen and Amgen, this is much more typical of what we are seeing for the biotechs.  Biogen, of course, one of our big cap is now down by 5.75.  Amgen, as well, is off by two bucks. 

 So the biotechs, which were one of the strongest sectors on this market, are now the weakest sector on the market for the day today. 

 TUCKER:  All right, Charles, thanks for that report.  You keep your eye on that market, and we`ll be back to visit you in a little while. 

 MOLINEAUX:  We are hoping to go back to 5000. 

 TUCKER:  Well, see what you can do about that.  Get it back to 5000 and we`ll come back and visit you again. 

 Our next guest is no stranger to technology.  Writer-turned-investor Michael Murphy is editor of the popular "California Technology Stock Letter" and he manages the Monterey Murphy Technology Fund. 

 KEENAN:  You would have come close to doubling your money last year if you followed the tips of this man.  He joins us now from Palo Alto, California. 

 Michael, welcome to IN THE MONEY.  Good to have you with us. 

 MICHAEL MURPHY, MONTEREY MURPHY TECHNOLOGY FUND:  Thanks, good to be here. 

 KEENAN:  Let me first ask you about what happened this morning. You -- did we pull back because we finally hit 5000 on the Nasdaq or was it a spillover from the P&G warning? 

 MURPHY:  Oh, I think it was probably the 5000 on the Nasdaq. These stocks have been in a world of their own, and they were determined to get to 5000, and may get there again.  But we are coming up on the earnings preannouncement season, it won`t just be P&G, there will be a few tech companies, not many, but, a few.  And of course, ultimately this hostile Fed is tough on growth stocks.  I don`t know when investors are going to face up to it, but if interest rates are really going significantly higher the growth stocks will have to come down. 

 TUCKER:  Well, is the confession season or the pre-earnings warning season, is that what is going to be finally what stands in way of this market, and cause a halt to the big run-ups that we have seen in the technology issues? 

 MURPHY:  Yeah, I think that is true.  It always causes a period of flatness and turbulence while you work your way through it, and there was a little bit of extra inventory that got built up during the December quarter just in case Y2K turned out to be a problem.  So they are working that off now.  It is not a big deal.  But most companies will make their numbers, but not exceed their numbers.  And a few will miss.  And so we have to get through this period over the next two or three weeks. 

 KEENAN;  Let`s talk biotechs for a second.  We have seen incredible rotation in the Nasdaq, and particularly into the biotechs this year, up about 90 percent year-to-date.  Has that sector run its course? 

 MURPHY:  Well, its been in a real bubble there is no doubt.  But, if you look forward, I think what might happen is that Nasdaq broadly comes down about as much as the Dow, which would be good, because normally the stocks come down more.  And then one of the big surprises is that biotech corrects, but really doesn`t correct the way you would think it would, and then turns out to be a leading industry in the second half of the year.  I think we are already getting the signals it will lead.  And it is based on real progress, and finally drugs coming to market this time, whereas eight, nine years ago it was all based on hope and hype. 

 TUCKER:  Michael, let me get your take on the 3Com/Palm deal. This is a huge story running up to the spinoff of Palm.  Palm came out, had a very nice debut, has been selling off virtually ever since. 3Com also under some pressure in the market as well.  What`s going on here?  And what should investors confused about this situation do? What`s the best play in the situation? 

 MURPHY:  Well, there is no, I mean the value of Palm exceeds the value of 3Com, which makes no sense at all, because they are going to spin the stock off, and the rest of 3Com is worth at least $20 or $30 a share. So if you are going to buy anything, you want to buy 3Com and hold on. In a few day, when we able to short the stock, people are going to start shorting Palm and buying 3Com as an arbitrage, and obviously this huge gap has got to close. 

 Palm is really dominant in its area, and although long term, three, four years out, it`s going to be a tough market, for now that`s the main play.  And I wouldn`t be surprised to see this stock move back up towards the sort of 80, 90-dollar level and finally get recognized that at level 3Com is worth probably close to $150 a share. So, we own 3Com, we`re buying 3Com, and we`ve been as baffled as everybody else as to why the two don`t come into line. 

 KEENAN:  Yes, I mean, does that concern you?  The markets are supposed to be efficient; this is a pretty easy equation for people to figure out, the information`s out there, it`s no secret, we saw this huge gap in market capitalization. 

 MURPHY:  Well, we`ve seen it before, you know, with Ziff Davis and CDNET.  These things happen, but they usually don`t last for a long time, and once the arbitrageurs can get in there, and in fact they`re going to start trading options on Palm on March 16th, once you have the option guys and the arbitrageurs in there, the gap will close.  Right now it`s just one of those things you scratch your head and say, what`s going on. 

 KEENAN:  And try to take advantage of it if you can. 

 MURPHY:  Yes.      KEENAN:  OK, thanks a lot, Michael. 

 MURPHY:  Thank you. 

 KEENAN:  We appreciate it.  Michael Murphy of the Monterey Murphy Technology Fund. 

 TUCKER:  All right.  Two other big movers on the Nasdaq, this morning: Network Solutions and Verisign.  Take a look at what`s happening with these stocks, folks: Network Solutions up $56 a share, Verisign taking a hit, however, and tumbling 39. 

 KEENAN:  And that`s because of what security firm is buying Network Solutions.  It`s an all-stock deal, $21 billion in stock. 

 And for more on what these companies do and why this could possible be a match made in cyber-heaven, we are joined by Greg Clarkin. 

 And Greg, somewhat surprising.  This is a huge deal: $21 billion. 

 GREG CLARKIN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  It really is, Terry and Bill, and this morning analysts are saying every once in a while you come across a deal that makes very, very good strategic sense; this is one of those. Verisign in the business of offering software for businesses to secure credit card transactions and the like over the Internet, and then Network Solutions, the biggest, until recently, really, a monopoly in terms of registering domain names, registering those dot.coms, dot.nets, dot.orgs.  Some folks estimate they have about 10 million Web addresses registered. 

 And analyst Paul Merenbloom over at Prudential says this is an incredibly-powerful, low-cost, high-margin business, because once a year you send out a renewal notice and say, listen, you want to keep doing business under this address, send us a few dollars.  And so this cash just keeps coming in this incredible cash flow for these folks. 

 And it makes sense for Verisign, too.  They want to become more of a full-service operation for people looking to do business on the Internet.  So basically you go, you can register your domain name with them, and then on top of that they can offer you software for doing credit card transactions and the like.  So that`s really what`s at the heart of this deal. 

 TUCKER:  What are they saying about the price, Greg, because Verisign`s paying about a 47 1/2-percent premium for Network Solutions? 

 CLARKIN:  It`s pricey, and the stock of Verisign, you can see today, is reflecting some of that.  Also, on the conference call a short while ago, the executives at Verisign said they`ll take up to $20 billion in charges on this deal, spread it out over three to five years.  But they do believe, and the Street does believe, it makes very good strategic sense, it fits in nicely, and again, it sets them up to be kind of a one-stop operation to do business on the Net. 

 KEENAN:  OK, and Verisign stock is up 10-fold year-to-date before announcing this deal. 

 CLARKIN:  It`s done very well, exactly, before today. 

 KEENAN:  OK, thanks a lot, Greg. 

 And we`re going to have more on this later in the show because Network Solutions is our "Stock of the Day." 

 TUCKER:  Yes, and Network`s being our "Stock of the Day."  We`ll talk about this deal a little bit later in the program. 

 With the Dow down more than 200 points... 

 KEENAN:  And eight Dow stocks at new lows, let`s get the pulse on the trading, and let`s go to the trading floor in Boston, in Jefferies & Company, where we have Art Hogan. 

 Art, what the heck is going on with this Procter & Gamble warning? 

 ART HOGAN, JEFFERIES & COMPANY:  Yes, this is a great way to start the earnings reporting -- pre-reporting season, isn`t it?  The -- if you look at what`s going on in the Dow, it didn`t need any more excuses to go down this year, and obviously a stock like Procter & Gamble, given its pre-report this morning. 

 The funny thing was, coming into the day, we knew they had a conference call.  A lot of the buzz was they were going to announce an acquisition like a Colgate or a Gillette, so obviously those companies are trading down in sympathy.  But 100 percent of the move today is -- in the Dow is Procter & Gamble, and that`s -- unfortunately there`s not a whole lot we can do about that.  But it certainly appears as we`ve got quite a bit of an overreaction to Procter`s bad news. 

 TUCKER:  Indeed it would appear to be.  I mean, is there something in that Procter & Gamble warning, Art, that`s unnerved investors about the rest of the stocks, because it`s taking everybody down with it? 

 HOGAN:  No, it`s -- you know, it`s -- unfortunately, everyone else is guilty by association.  So, you know, Procter misses and our first worry is, what other Dow stocks are going to miss, what other consumer stocks are going to miss, and the rest of the group goes down.  But if you remember, if you hearken back not less than a month ago, we had a report like this at Lucent and the stock opened at $51, it was trading at $70 today.  So, is this overdone on the downside?  I would have to say so. And you know, calmer minds or saner minds will probably 30 days from now be paying a whole lot more for Procter & Gamble than they are today. 

 Let`s face it, the news that they gave us was not disastrous; it`s just not that their revenue growth isn`t going to be quite what we thought they were going to be for 2001.  So I think it`s a clear sign of investor overreaction and just the way these things are being tortured when you -- when you fool the analysts. 

 KEENAN:  "Torture" is a good word for it, especially if you own P&G. 

 Thanks a lot, Art.  We appreciate it. 

 HOGAN:  Thank you. 

 KEENAN:  And by the way, the Nasdaq bouncing back again.  We`re up 55 points, just 40 points away from Dow (sic) 5000. 

 TUCKER:  I know.  That 5000 may come back up. 

 Coming up on IN THE MONEY: the Super Tuesday showdown.  It could be make-or-break-it day in the Republican race.  We`ll check in with the Bush and McCain campaigns. 

 And business-to-business stocks:  Is it a sector of the moment or a long-term play?  We`ll take a look a little bit later in the show. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 KEENAN:  A "Wake-Up Call" this morning for all of you who are wondering what kind of salary a former treasury secretary makes. Robert Rubin: he`ll earn $30 million in his first two years at Citigroup, a base salary of a million dollars, plus a $14 million bonus for this year.  And next, he will also be able to buy Citigroup stock options, valued at about $18 1/2 million.  Rubin is a member of Citigroup`s executive committee board, and he says he does not want to be CEO. 

 TUCKER:  Well, and it`s also worth remembering, for those who think that`s a lot of money, which it is... 

 KEENAN:  It is. 

 TUCKER:  ... OK, but he could have stood to make a lot more, because remember, he was on the executive committee at Goldman Sachs and left to go down to Washington to serve as Treasury Secretary, and could have made a great deal more money if he had stayed around and collected on those Goldman shares when they went public. 

 KEENAN:  That`s for sure. 

 TUCKER:  All right, it`s time now to check on other news that we`re following today.  The big story, of course, is Super Tuesday. 

 It is the busiest voting day of the primary season.  Thirteen states, 605 delegates are at stake in the Republican presidential race.  Polls show John McCain doing well in New England but give George W. Bush the edge in some large and important states, including the delegate-rich California. 

 We find the McCain campaign in California, and that`s also where we find CNN`s Jonathan Karl, who joins us live from Los Angeles with an update on the mood and how the campaign`s going -- Jonathan. 

 JONATHAN KARL, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Well, Bill, you know, John McCain has long said, really since the earliest days of his campaign, that it would all come down to today, Super Tuesday.  And even as voters started going to the polls just over an hour ago here in Los Angeles, all over California, McCain is continuing to hit the airwaves with his television advertising, making one last-ditch appeal to the voters of California. His aides acknowledge that he faces an uphill battle here, probably an insurmountable battle in terms of winning the Republican vote, but still holding out hope that they can win the general popularity contest here in California that includes Democrats and Republicans. 

 As for McCain, himself, he is doing some radio interviews from his hotel room here in Los Angeles.  He is not -- he doesn`t have any other major events, no public events scheduled today, instead he is going to do what he has done virtually every election day of his political career, he will say in and watch a movie with his family. 

 Now, McCain`s aides are saying that they, again, don`t have much hope in terms of winning the Republican vote here in California, but they are hoping to do better than expected in some other big states including New York and Ohio. 

 And in a sign that they are planning to continue fighting on beyond Super Tuesday, the McCain campaign says they have spent $200,000 buying television ads in Colorado.  Colorado the next big state to hold a Republican primary. 

 Reporting live from Los Angeles, this is Jonathan Carl. 

 TUCKER:  All right, Jonathan, thank you very much for that update. 

 Now let`s check in with George Bush.  He is back home in Austin, Texas to wait out today`s results. 

 CNN`s Patty Davis is in Austin as well and joins us live from there. 

 Hey, Patty. 

 PATTY DAVIS, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  That is right, a confident George W. Bush awaits the returns from Super Tuesday here in Austin, today, he -- where he is governor, he is going about the governor`s business. Clearly on mind though, a higher office, as he awaits those returns. 

 Now, last night, George W. Bush was campaigning in Long Beach, California.  He made his last swing through the state of California, yesterday, trying to energize supporters to come out and vote for him today. 

 Now, California is the biggest prize of the day, 162 GOP delegates, the only votes that count, in terms of awarding those delegates, are registered Republicans and George Bush is doing quite well among those registered Republicans. 

 Bush`s camp confident it will win the state and at least six other states: Missouri, Minnesota, Ohio, Georgia, Washington State, and Maryland; toss-ups however: New York State, and the Bush campaign is saying Connecticut also a tossup.  But they are also saying, watch the state of Maine.  Of course, with the Bush compound in Kennebunkport located they are saying there could be race there, which Bush may win, according to the Bush campaign in the state of Maine. 

 Now, Bush`s get out the vote effort has now kicked into full force. Yesterday and today, some two million telephone calls from phone banks to supporters, voters around the country in nine states trying to get them to come out and vote for George W. Bush.  The goal here, a knockout punch for Arizona Senator John McCain. 

 I`m Patty Davis, CNN, live in Austin, Texas. 

 TUCKER:  All right, thank you, Patty. 

 Well, George W. Bush`s brother, Jeb Bush, is the target of protesters today.  The younger Bush is the governor of Florida. Demonstrators gathered last night and again this morning.  You are looking at a live picture of the protests,  They are gathering at the state`s capital to rally against Governor Bush`s plan to eliminate racial and gender preferences in university admissions and state contracting decisions. 

 Supporters of the plan say it actually would boost minority enrollment in higher education and participation in contracting jobs because it would expand outreach efforts. 

 When Americans go to the polls, many of them vote with their pocketbooks.  The economy an important issue in the last few presidential elections and the same thing is true this time around. 

 A new Gallup Poll takes a look at how Americans feel about the U.S. economy this year and how important the issue is in the race for the White House. 

 Joining us now from Princeton, New Jersey, is the Gallup Poll`s editor in chief, Frank Newport -- Frank. 

 FRANK NEWPORT, EDITOR-IN-CHIEF, GALLUP POLL:  Bill, I think that the economy is always going to be an issue.  We are not economic determinists here at Gallup, but the more we look at the data and more we think, even in a booming economy, underneath it all, the economy is going to be an issue. 

 Now we can go back to show you 1992, because that is kind of the benchmark where it was "the economy stupid," as you well remember that analysts say helped Bill Clinton get elected in the first place.  This is what way back then how voters rated the priority for various issues and their vote in `92.  And you can see, the economy was at the top, and unemployment was third in this list that we used back then. 

 But a lot has changed since then.  Look at this next chart, which is very fascinating.  This is the public`s perception of how well the economy is doing.  January, `92, 12 percent excellent or good; October `92, just 11 percent.  To Bill Clinton`s great benefit in January of `96, it went up to 29, and then all the to 47, as you can see, right before he was elected in the fall of `96. 

 And now look where we are in January of this year, it is all the way up to 71 percent.  So clearly, it is a different climate, people are much, much happier, although if the Dow keeps going down that might change.  This was just a bit ago. 

 But what we see is that when we ask Americans this year how important are these issues in your vote?  The economy is not number-one, but the point we are making is that education is one, Social Security/Medicare are two, but look at the economy, not that far below.  Kind of using a different scale than we did in `92, but just a few points below in our rating scale is the economy. 

 So even with that tremendous positive attitudes that we have been receiving, we think Americans still think the economy is going to be important, and a lot can change, if the Dow keeps going down, if unemployment goes up, the economy could become even more important. 

 Finally, when we asked just a bit ago in kind of our benchmark studies, a few weeks ago in February, how well the candidates fared on it, you can see our analysis was there is not a lot of difference, the two front-runners Gore and Bush, as you can see, Bill, scored about the same, in terms of the public`s rating of their keeping the economy strong. 

 So given that the economy is an issue, right now we don`t see that any one candidate has a real strong plus on it -- Bill. 

 TUCKER:  All right, thank you for that update, appreciate it. 

 KEENAN:  OK, joining us now for more on the role of the economy in the 2000 elections, a man who follows these things for a living, he is Tom Gallagher, and he is the senior managing director for ISI. 

 Hi, Tom, good morning. 

 TOM GALLAGHER, ISI:  Hi, good morning. 

 KEENAN:  We just saw those economic numbers, coming out of the Gallup organization, a tremendous positive feeling about the U.S. economy. Does that bode very well for Al Gore? 

 GALLAGHER:  It certainly should.  I think every election is really a choice between continuity and change.  If voters want to continue with the status quo, then the incumbent party benefits.  If they want to change, they go to the opposition party.  Most of the time, that decision is based on the economy.  So in some ways, I think it is almost a stunning finding that voters actually think that Bush is going to do a better job with economy than Gore.  I think it really highlights the challenge for Gore in the months ahead. 

 TUCKER:  Well, actually, that is what I was going to ask you about Tom.  They are happy with the economy, and they think Bush, at least according to Gallup, could take better care of that economy than Gore. Is that what`s going to make this interesting moving forward? GALLAGHER:  Well, I think definitely.  I think that poll finding may suggest a lot of things.  One is, it may be hard for vice presidents to kind of come out of under the shadow of the president. That was the case in 1988, when Bush`s father was vice president and he ran for president, he didn`t really take the lead until later in the campaign.  Or it could just be that voters think that Republicans do a better job in the economy, than Democrats.  It may be that they give Greenspan credit, not the president. 

 But I still go back to the bottom line is, this is what -- this really is the core of Gore`s campaign strategy, is to become more closely identified with this current prosperity, and to call into question Bush`s economic plan, possibly putting the prosperity at risk. 

 KEENAN:  And despite that prosperity, we have seen a proclivity this year for candidates who represent change, particularly John McCain.  Is that unusual, given how strong the economy is? 

 GALLAGHER:  Well, I don`t know that it is really unusual.  I think you look throughout the `90s, there has been a strain of voters who have been opting for reform, you know, some people call them "radical centrists." Their political views on most issues are really fairly centrist, but they want fairly major changes in the political system. Perot showed that in `92, and then again a little bit in `96; the Jesse Ventura phenomenon. 

 So I think that that sentiment is stronger when the economy is not so good.  I think you can see that by comparing Perot`s performance in `92 and `96.  His vote share fell off quite a bit by `96.  So I think there is an element for that, for reform, but it is a smaller percentage given how good the economy is performing. 

 TUCKER:  All right, Tom, thanks a lot for being here.  Tom Gallagher, managing director -- senior managing director with ISI. 

 KEENAN:  Thanks, Tom. 

 Well, be sure to stick with CNN throughout the day for the latest developments on this Super Tuesday.  CNN`s Wolf Blitzer hosts a special edition of "INSIDE POLITICS" that is today at 5:00 p.m. Eastern. 

 TUCKER:  And CNN`s election coverage begins at 7:00 p.m. Eastern with anchors Judy Woodruff and Bernie Shaw.  They will be joined by analysts Jeff Greenfield and Bill Schneider. 

 KEENAN:  And just ahead on IN THE MONEY:  Investing on a buzzword: business-to-business.  But is it a fad for the future?  Why you might want to consider B2B firms for your portfolio. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 TUCKER:  Amazon.com and eBay revolutionized the business-to-consumer e-commerce market, the next to the Internet revolution may belong to the business-to-business market.  And, while enormous opportunity awaits the firms that are first to capitalize on this so-called B2B commerce, the risk can be outsized as well. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 TUCKER (voice-over):  B2B: it`s the buzz word of the moment.  But this is no fly-by-night Internet flavor of the month.  B2B is short for business-to-business commerce, where buyers and suppliers meet to exchange goods and services in hundreds of new firms that are lining up to facilitate those on-line transactions. 

 Even the nation`s top banker tipped his hat to the out-sized potential of the B2B e-commerce market in his speech on Monday. 

 ALAN GREENSPAN, CHAIRMAN, FEDERAL RESERVE:  It appears to be only a matter of time before the Internet becomes the prime venue for the trillions of dollars of business-to-business commerce conducted every year. 

 TUCKER:  Estimates of annual B2B revenue run from $1.3 trillion to, as high as, $50 trillion all within the next decade.  Everything from auto parts to chemicals and paper and steel would be sold over the Internet. 

 The lure for businesses is a more efficient purchasing process, which saves the companies money and time.  B2B firms make money by licensing the software that supports these markets and by taking a small cut of each transaction. 

 But, how do investors choose the winners? 

 KAMA KRISHNA, SR. TECHNOLOGY ANALYST, SANOS BROTHERS:  Any Internet company, which provides the basic infrastructure for the B2B e-commerce, and companies which have first mover advantage in their particular space, are getting higher valuation than their competitors. 

 TUCKER:  Translation: Be prepared to pay lofty prices for the emerging winners.  Some of those infrastructure companies with out-sized returns include: Ariba, Commerce One, Oracle, and SAP. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 TUCKER:  And another factor to consider: B2B firms are now scrambling to sign up Fortune 500 companies as clients.  Now those firms spend big bucks every year on procurement.  So, the better their client list, the more money that goes to the B2B firms` bottom line. 

 KEENAN:  As for how some of the B2B stocks are doing this morning: pretty much -- there you see -- pretty much to the upside. Internet Capital Group, up 2 5/8; Ariba, up 11; Commerce One, up 6 1/8; and VerticalNet is up $3 a share. 

 TUCKER:  Nice moves. 

 Coming up IN THE MONEY: Investing like a venture capitalist, why the Motley Fools think you should be very VC in how you choose your stocks. 

 KEENAN:  And Network Solutions is our "Stock of the Day"; the gatekeeper of domain titles signs its own name to a big merger. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 TUCKER:  Welcome back.  It is Nasdaq 5000 day.  Earlier today, the Nasdaq climbed to 5006, that prompted a quick sell-off.  The Nasdaq, however, on its way back to that level, only 25 points shy. 

 Completely different story from the Dow today.  The Dow under pressure.  it is off its low of the sessions, believe it or not, but it still down 190 points.  The big problem there, Proctor & Gamble, company coming out today and warning that it will not be living up to earnings expectations for the first quarter.  Stock is down 25 7/16 --Terry. 

 KEENAN:  And that`s the main reason that the Dow is so much lower. We`ve been talking a lot about divergence.  Well, today there is an exclamation point on that word as the Dow and Nasdaq head in totally opposite directions. 

 TUCKER:  Absolutely. 

 KEENAN:  Also helping the Nasdaq today, a big deal that Wall Street has been buzzing about.  It is in cyberspace.  Verisign`s agreement to buy Network Solutions for $21 billion worth of Verisign`s stock. Network`s stock has been on a tear since going public back in 1997. Over the last year, the stock has quadrupled.  It traded as low as $49 in June. 

 Now, some of the bulls point to its estimated 49 percent earnings growth over the next five years.  The bears say that the question for investors is whether or not the growth can continue, and a loss of its monopoly can only add to those concerns because other companies are getting into Network Solution`s business. 

 So we pose the question to you:  Should we put Network Solutions into our IN THE MONEY portfolio?  It is our "Stock of the Day." And shares of Network Solutions, as you might expect, moving up on news of that deal. We are currently up $63 on that stock.  Verisign, which will exchange 2.15 of its shares for Network Solutions, that stock is trading down 36. But as I mentioned it was up 10-fold from its 52-week low. 

 TUCKER:  Joining us now for more on Network Solutions is Prudential`s Paul Merenbloom. 

 And Paul, welcome to IN THE MONEY.  Let me begin by confessing that we had something of an argument in the staff here today, Paul, about the "Stock of the Day," whether it should be Verisign or whether it should, in fact, be Network Solutions. 

 KEENAN:  I voted for Verisign. 

 TUCKER:  Actually, yes, there was a split decision in the crowd. How would you play this merger, if you are going to play it at all, Paul? PAUL MERENBLOOM, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES:  Well, I have long been a bull on Network Solutions, so I will put my vote in that camp, although my colleague David Briner (ph), who covers Verisign, might put his vote on the other side of the table. 

 TUCKER:  Fair enough.  What about this deal, is it a good deal? Does Network Solutions fit nicely into Verisign? 

 MERENBLOOM:  From a strategical and a structural point of view, the two organizations fit together really hand in glove.  Both of them are transaction oriented, both of them are enablers.  As you pointed out earlier, Network Solutions offering dot.com, Verisign offering security and electronic trust on-line, a critical component for B2B. 

 In terms of the operating models, again, very, very similar, prepaid services, recognized gradibly (ph) over the life of the contract.  So if you look at the balance sheets between them, very, very strong, including about a billion dollars pro forma in cash.  So, you know, a strong organization, strong fit structurally, easy to put together. Now, it is a matter of leverage and moving things forward. 

 KEENAN:  But with this deal, the upside on Network Solutions is capped because we know what you are going to get for your Network Solutions shares, right? 

 MERENBLOOM:  Well, that`s what some people may think today.  But keep in mind, though, Network Solutions has within their total construct the registry, that is the database in which all of the dot.com, dot.net, and dot.org domains are kept.  That registry right now has a four-year exclusive control over that database, and a SAIC, Network Solution`s parent reduced, just reduced their ownership to 23 percent.  Network Solutions is prepared or at least was prepared, prior to this morning`s announcement, to spin that out, sort of like what we saw with 3Com and Palm.  So that would open up additional upside potential both for the people who are involved in Network Solutions, as well as potentially Verisign once the deal is closed. 

 TUCKER:  All right, Paul, thank you very much.  We have been speaking with Paul Merenbloom at Prudential. 

 Well, now that you`ve heard the arguments for and against Network Solutions, go on down to the bottom of our home page, cnnfn.com, and cast your vote on whether we should buy the stock or not for the portfolio. 

 As for what you thought about Qwest Communications, yesterday`s "Stock of the Day," 69 percent of you feeling very good about the telecommunications company, which means it gets a yellow light on our indicator, and we will buy $1,000 worth of it for our portfolio. 

 KEENAN:  The stock`s down 4 1/2 right now. 

 TUCKER:  Of course. 

 KEENAN:  Amid all that carnage that we`ve been seeing on the big board today.      Coming up next on IN THE MONEY:  In some places this may be "Fat Tuesday," but in a number of states, today is Super Tuesday, the biggest presidential primary day of the year.  Earlier, we looked at the Republican campaigns.  Up next, we`re going to check in with the Democratic hopefuls. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 KEENAN:  OK, they are selling stocks at the New York Stock Exchange, no fewer than eight Dow components trading at new 52-week lows and then some, including Coca-Cola, International Paper, Eastman Kodak, Johnson & Johnson, Merck, Caterpillar and Proctor & Gamble, and Proctor & Gamble issuing a profit warning today, and that is unnerving investors.  Also unnerving investors -- look at that -- light, sweet crude above $33 a barrel, up $1.22. 

 TUCKER:  The last time we saw oil that high was back in 1990 followed by recession in `91, and that could add a new wrinkle to presidential politics this year. 

 It`s time to check on some other stories making news outside of the world of business today.  And the Super Bowl of presidential primaries is being held right now.  Super Tuesday voters in a number of states are casting ballots for their preferred Republican or Democrat.  Today could be a do-or-die day for both John McCain and Bill Bradley. 

 A spot check now on the Bradley-Gore contest, beginning with CNN`s Pat Neal who`s with the Bradley campaign in New York -- Pat. 

 PAT NEAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Good morning, Bill. 

 Well, Bill Bradley was out early today trying to encourage New York voters not only to go to the polls, but to make sure and select him. He`s been concentrating on New York for the past 24 hours, the countdown to Super Tuesday.  New York is like a second home to him because he`s a former senator who`s from New Jersey next door. 

 A lot of New Yorkers also remember him from the 10 years he spent playing pro basketball for the New York Knicks.  Because of that, Bradley`s team thought New York would prove a winner for him, but he`s lagging behind the vice president two to one here.  And across the country, he trails in virtually every race.  But Bradley`s press secretary told me they hope to surprise some people tonight, and that over the past couple of days, the campaign has picked up a lot of supporters. 

 Bradley plans a rally tonight at 8:00 here in New York.  Tomorrow is planned as a day of reassessment.  They`ll have to look at those results from tonight and decide whether or not this campaign should go on. 

 Pat Neal, CNN, reporting live from New York. 

 TUCKER:  Well, Democratic front-runner Vice President Al Gore is heading home to Tennessee today.  He`s scheduled to arrive in the state capital in less than two hours from now. 

 And CNN`s Gary Tuchman join us from Nashville with the latest on his campaign -- Gary. 

 GARY TUCHMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Hello, Bill. 

 The people in the Gore campaign have every expectation they will be celebrating with their candidate tonight here in Tennessee.  But first of all, of course, there`s the matter of the polls closing and the votes being counted.  But when that`s all over, they expect things will look very good. 

 Right now, Al Gore is doing some radio interviews in St. Louis, Missouri.  He had a rally there last night.  He will board a plane in a couple of hours and head here for Nashville, Tennessee where he`ll be staying in a hotel with his wife Tipper across from Vanderbilt University and watching election returns tonight.  After the expected celebration, he will take care of some personal business tomorrow, visiting his mother in nearby Carthage, Tennessee, his home town about 40 miles east of here. 

 And then it`s back to work, heading to Michigan and Minnesota. Michigan has Democratic caucuses this Saturday; Minnesota has caucuses on Sunday.  So the expected schedule, celebration tonight, back to work tomorrow. 

 This is Gary Tuchman, CNN, live in Nashville, Tennessee. 

 TUCKER:  All right, thank you for that update, Gary. 

 KEENAN:  OK, Tuesday also means Motley Fool day, and today we`re going to talk about how to invest like a venture capitalist.  And bankers need not apply.  David Gardner, co-Fool, he joins us this morning from the Fool`s campaign headquarters in Alexandria, Virginia. 

 David, welcome.  Good to have you with us. 

 DAVID GARDNER, THE MOTLEY FOOL:  Hi there, Terry.  I`m not sure what we`re campaigning for other than we`d like to see the capital gains rate for less than 12 months, we`d like to see that knocked up to about 90 percent.  That would curtail day-trading. 

 KEENAN:  It certainly would.  It would make a lot of short-term traders unhappy, but I guess you could day-trade in your 401(k). 

 Let`s talk about how you can invest like a venture capitalist, because know a lot of these venture capital funds have been extremely successful of late.  How can you use some of the tools that venture capitalists use for your own portfolio? 

 GARDNER:  Well, there are three things that we really look at. This is the way a VC looks at a company and this is the way we as just average investors try to look and assess companies as well.  Number one is we like to assess human capital.  That means the people who are managing these businesses.  And given that, today, we`re seeing a lot of really wonderful business models that don`t have a lot of assets to them, you start looking at other assets.  And so getting to know your manager, you can read the 10-K, the 10-Q, the prospectus today, you can go to the Web site, you can find a company`s mission statement. The people are really what run a business, not so much the products and services over the long-term.  So that`s number one. 

 KEENAN:  And that... 

 GARDNER:  And then I`d-- go ahead, Terry. 

 KEENAN:  I was going to say, that brings us to point two, which is to understand the business plan.  Venture capitalist spend a lot of time reading those business plans.  Can you use the prospectus as your business plan and really go through it?  And what`s important to look at in that? 

 GARDNER:  You know, what I personally look at is I ask the question: How does a company make money, and how do they make more money than that?  In other words, what is the business model?  It`s a simple question to ask, but sometimes you find out some strange answers.  For example, Boston Market, Boston Chicken, which is today bankrupt, they weren`t -- they didn`t have the McDonald`s model.  You may have thought, gosh, those Boston Markets peeking up all over town, those must be selling food.  But what they were really selling is franchises.  And if we as investors, and if, let`s say, Merrill Lynch, which had a strong buy on the company all the way down, if they`d asked that simple question, how do they make money? we would have seen it`s not a sustainable business model. 

 So finding out how a company makes money and how it`s incentivized is critical, and, yes, you can use the prospectus.  I use online message boards at Fool.com and I just ask questions of other people because we altogether know a lot more about companies than individually. 

 KEENAN:  So let some other people do some of the research for you. 

 GARDNER:  Absolutely.  That`s the beauty of the Internet today and the new model out there.  You don`t have to be an expert.  You can work together with other people. 

 Let`s take it to number three, though, because after you ask how much -- how a company makes money, you then have to ask, how do they protect that money over the longer term?  You know, it`s easy to get a profit right out of the gate, particularly in today`s economy, or to make a big splash with your IPO, but how are you going to actually going to fend off all the copycats that come along?  And if you want to take Yahoo! as a good example, I think Yahoo!`s really well set up to protect its profits through its brand, and it`s reached ubiquity. 

 eBay as well.  You know, eBay has the most buyers and the most sellers, and if you`re a buyer or a seller today, you want to find out where the most of the other guys are.  So, finding a wide market and good prices for eBay, that`s a sustainable advantage as well.  So, we have to look for those in all of the businesses we invest in.  How are they going to protect those profits?      KEENAN:  OK.  And before we go, some people want to just protect themselves on the downside, particularly today.  We have an e-mail from someone who bought Wal-Mart, and they bought it a little over a year ago, and really frustrated that they can`t seem to get any movement.  Wal-Mart`s not one of the stocks that`s at a new low, but it hasn`t been behaving too well among the Dow 30.  What`s your advice? 

 GARDNER:  I`m of two minds about Wal-Mart, and let me briefly share both of my minds.  On the one hand, you`re buying a great franchise with national distribution and dominant in so many of its markets, so don`t be impatient after a single year.  Obviously, we`ve seen a lot of money move into new technology ventures in the last year, that does not necessarily fundamentally change Wal-Mart`s long-term prospects, and I don`t think we should be starting to get too itchy as investors if our stocks don`t do anything over a 12-month period. 

 But on the other hand, I`m not convinced that Wal-Mart is really going to succeed with its Web site.  I know that there`s a lot of build-up to that and they`ve delayed a couple times, but I see Amazon having captured most of the really great market segments when we talk about information and entertainment products.  And Wal-Mart has left to sell lawn mowers and things like that on its Web site.  So I`m not a real bull on their Internet presence, but I very much do believe long-term in their off-line presence. 

 KEENAN:  OK, thanks a lot, David.  We`ll see you next week. 

 GARDNER:  Thanks, Terry.  Fool on. 

 KEENAN:  Thanks. 

 OK, coming up next, we`re going to update you on the markets, the Dow continuing to sell off. 

 TUCKER:  That`s right.  Plus, we`ll have Andy Serwer here with his words on Advance Micro Devices. 

 ANDY SERWER, EDITOR-AT-LARGE, "FORTUNE":  That`s right.  We`ll be taking a look at the battle for the big chips: Intel vs. AMD and the new super microprocessors. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 TUCKER:  Advanced Micro Devices released the computer world`s first one-gigahertz chip yesterday.  But while AMD may be the first out of the gate, it`s likely to see some competition and very quickly. 

 KEENAN:  Our Andy Serwer is here with more on that story -- Andy. 

 SERWER:  Well, we`re sort of seeing the day between the two gigahertz chip roll-outs.  As you said, yesterday AMD rolled out the first one-gigahertz chip, that 1,000 megahertz, that`s one billion bits of information per second, amazing.  Tomorrow, Intel`s going to roll out the same thing, it`s first one-gigahertz chip.      And you know, I think what`s important to remember here is that it was only six years ago that Intel rolled out the first Pentium, which was a 100-megahertz chip.  So we`ve seen a tenfold increase in just six years, and I think we`re also going to see people talking about computers in terms of gigahertz and not megahertz any more. Most people, of course, have PCs that are still under 500 megahertz. 

 The stocks here, if we look at them, you know, they both have been incredible over the past -- well, that`s a five-year chart, so you can see that Intel has been -- that`s up about tenfold over the past -- over the past five years, which is really incredible.  AMD not the same kind of performance, and it sort of reflects Wall Street`s perspective, Terry, of these two company.  Intel, of course, one of the bluest of the blue chips, always there, has about an 80 or 90-percent marketshare of microprocessors.  And you can see there over the past year they`ve been kind of equal, but, you know, going back in time, these stocks are not valued the same by Wall Street.  AMD has always had problems with production, problems with management; Jerry Sanders a very colorful figure. 

 So, you know, is this the time for AMD to really catch up and really show Wall Street that it really has the stuff to go forward? You know, it`s only got about 10 percent of the marketshare, but it`s got about a 60-percent marketshare in the under-$1,000 PC marketplace. What I don`t understand is these new super-chips are very expensive, so it`s going high-end here a little bit. 

 KEENAN:  Yes, and, you know, we`ve seen -- we`ve -- that chart, you know, so many times, you know, that AMD comes out with a chip that`s faster, smarter, better and then they can`t execute on it. 

 SERWER:  They blow it, they blow it with management, production. SO we`re really going to see if they can sort of keep it together. 

 I want to talk about one other stock really quickly, which is Rambus. Talked about it February 16th.  It was at 100, it`s now at 300. Something must have gone right, and we`ll talk about that some more later. 

 KEENAN:  OK, good call.  Thanks, Andy. 

 TUCKER:  Thanks, Andy. 

 SERWER:  OK. 

 KEENAN:  Andy Serwer. 

 OK, that`s going to do it for us.  The Dow is down 212 points, while the Nasdaq is just about 22 points away from Nasdaq 5000. 

 TUCKER:  See you tomorrow. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc.  ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by eMediaMillWorks, Inc.  (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.)  No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document ithm000020010807dw370001o
 

 Business 
 Nightly Business Report 

 Paul Kangas, Susie Gharib 
4,370 words
7 March 2000
23:30
Nightly Business Report
NBR
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 PAUL KANGAS, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT ANCHOR: Watch out below! The Dow continues to plummet with a triple digit loss again today. This time the blue chips lose 374 points, closing below the 9,800 level, and the NASDAQ falls 57 points. Good evening. I`m Paul Kangas in Miami. 

 SUSIE GHARIB, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT ANCHOR: And I`m Susie Gharib in New York City. We`ll talk live with a Wall Street pro about why the Dow is tanking and what you should do about your portfolio. Then, one big winner on Wall Street, the stock of Network Solutions (NSOL) soaring almost 50 points. We`ll tell you why. 

 GHARIB: Good evening, everyone. A wicked day on Wall Street. The Dow plunged 374 points or 4 percent and the NASDAQ fell 57 points on a day that it briefly crossed the 5,000 mark. Why the sell-off? Higher oil prices, the threat of higher interest rates and a profit warning from Procter & Gamble (PG). Here`s Erika Miller with a look at today`s market action. 

 ERIKA MILLER, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: On the day the NASDAQ traded above 5,000 for the first time, the big story was at the big board. The Dow plunged nearly 375 points. It`s now down 16 percent from its January high. 

 MARY FARRELL, SR. INVESTMENT STRATEGIST, PAINEWEBBER: I think the problem for the market today is interest rates. Even though they have come down from the over 6 1/2 percent of just a few weeks ago, with the uncertainty over what the Federal Reserve is going to do has made the market very nervous and skittish. 

 MILLER: At the heart of the sell-off was a profit warning from Procter & Gamble, which reinforced fears about old economy stocks. P&G shares tumbled more than 27 points today. The stock has tanked nearly 50 percent since January. The company says second half earnings will fall far short of forecasts. It blames higher costs for pulp and petroleum based raw materials costs. Crude oil futures gushed to over $34 a barrel today, a new 10 year high. That added to the market`s overall decline. The NASDAQ was not able to hold on to its intraday high. It ultimately succumbed to market jitters after soaring more than 100 points early in the session. It was just two months ago that the NASDAQ index passed 4,000 and four months ago that it crossed 3,000. Experts say it`s just a matter of days before the NASDAQ closes above 5,000, though they warn the path ahead will be bumpy. 

 BRIAN FINNERTY, NASDAQ TRADER, C.E. UNTERBERG, TOWBIN: There`s fear and greed going on at the same time right here, fear for the stocks that aren`t growing rapidly and greed in the stocks that are growing very rapidly. 

 MILLER: Despite the declines in the Dow and NASDAQ today, experts are looking for the two indexes to continue moving in opposite directions: the Dow down, the NASDAQ up, and analysts say that`s pretty remarkable when you consider that the NASDAQ is nearly 20 percent this year, while the Dow has fallen about 15 percent for the same time period. Erika Miller, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, New York. 

 KANGAS: Attempting to recover from yesterday`s 196 point tumble in the Dow Industrial average, Wall Street`s blue chips managed to edge up only about 20 points at the outset of trading today. But the red hot NASDAQ Index soared 102 points, just above the 5,000 level for the first time by 10:00 A.M. Then Procter & Gamble lowered the tide for stocks in general by that earnings warning we told you about when P&G stock plunged as much as 30 points, all the way down to $57 per share. It was responsible for 147 points of a 253 point loss in the Industrial Average at 10:30 this morning, when the NASDAQ Index even fell to a 10 point loss. As old stalwarts like General Electric (GE), Colgate (CL), Clorox (CLX), Coca Cola (KO) and Kimberly Clark (KMB) fell in sympathy with Procter & Gamble, the Industrial Average dropped to a 327 point deficit by two this afternoon. 

 Meanwhile, the invincible NASDAQ Index bounced back with a 20 point gain until the Dow Industrial Average kept descending, and after being off as much as 415 points, it finally closed with a loss of 347.47. That`s 3.7 percent. And it now stands at 9,796.03. In today`s wide 476 point trading range, the Dow closed down 433 points from the best level of the session. The NASDAQ Composite fell 57.01 to 4,847.84. In its 177 point trading range, the Composite Index settled 167 points below its best level of the day. 

 Big board volume heavy, 1.3 million or billion shares, well up from yesterday and down volume exceeded up volume by better than a 3 to 1 margin. 

 The Dow Transport Index down 112 1/2 points exactly. Utilities down .81 after a bad day yesterday. 

 The Closing Tick still a little bearish at -395. 

 Standard & Poor`s 500 off 35 2/3. 

 Nearly a 20 3/4 point drop on the S&P 100. 

 MidCap 400 off 2 1/3 points. 

 The Bridge Futures Price Index was up 1.17. 

 New York Stock Exchange Composite off nearly 15 1/2. 

 Almost a 6 point drop in the Value Line. 

 The Russell2000 Small Cap Index fell 6.17. 

 And the Wilshire 5000 down 293 1/2 points. 

 The bond market was boosted today by news that fourth quarter productivity rose a solid 6.4 percent while labor costs actually fell 2 1/2 percent. Also a plus for dead instruments was the sharp sell-off in the stock market, which of course triggered flight to safety buying. Shorter maturities fared better than the long end because even though the Treasury said it will buy back $1 billion in 30 year Treasury bonds, that`s a relatively small amount. 

 Tax free and corporates ended small fractions higher as did most Treasuries. 

 We look at the 5-year notes edging up 7/32. 

 The 10-year notes up 10/32. 

 And the 30-year bond down 5/32. 

 And finally, the Lehman Brothers Long-Term Treasury Bond Index was down .77. 

 I`ll be back shortly to show you where the action was on Wall Street today. Susie? 

 GHARIB: Paul, our guest tonight says that he expects stocks to continue to correct through April and May. Joining me live is Dick McCabe, chief market strategist at Merrill Lynch. Hi, Dick. 

 RICHARD MCCABE, CHIEF MARKET STRATEGIST, MERRILL LYNCH: Good evening, Susie. 

 GHARIB: You know, besides the warning from Procter & Gamble today, we`ve known that interest rates are going to go higher. We`ve known about higher oil prices. What happened today? 

 MCCABE: Well, I think the P&G news and sell-off in the stock which was so traumatic kind of act as a trigger or catalyst that got the ball rolling on the downside after the NASDAQ didn`t quite hold when it broke above 5,000 just temporarily. But I think it`s also a worry that the Fed is going to tighten more than people thought recently, maybe the tightening will have an effect on valuations and maybe some of the technology stocks are not as immune to the economic cycle as many people may have assumed recently. 

 GHARIB: Well, we didn`t see as big a sell-off in the NASDAQ. Is that the next shoe to drop? 

 MCCABE: Well, I`m afraid that eventually these market corrections get to everything. We have been through the ringer in a sense over the past year or more, taking down financial stocks, taking down consumer growth stocks, more recently taking down a lot of basic industrial stocks like chemicals, papers, metals. The last group that hasn`t corrected yet but, in fact, has kept going up is technology and before this is over I think there will be some let down and some air taken out of the technology boom. 

 GHARIB: What do we do in the meantime? What are you telling your clients to do? 

 MCCABE: Well, if an account is a trader, I would suggest they hold some cash reserves. If they have none, even build some cash because there may be a much better buy point sometime in April or May. If they`re purely long-term investors and don`t care about the jiggles along the way, I think that they could ride through this. But if they have cash to invest right now, they probably should do it on a gradual basis over these next few months. 

 GHARIB: All right, so let`s say you do have some cash. What are some of the stocks you`re telling Merrill Lynch clients to buy right now? 

 MCCABE: Well, I like some computer services stocks. I think particularly in that group we have a very good technical pattern and a good fundamental backup on paychecks. I like some of the oil services and drilling stocks. They`ve been recovering over the past six months to a year. Many are still very depressed from their long-term highs. Santa Fe International is a good chart and a good fundamental backup stock in that group. I like some of the medical equipment and technology stocks. They`ve been consolidating their gains of the mid 90s in the past year or two. They look good. And Guidant Corps is a particularly good chart there. 

 GHARIB: Dick, you said a moment ago that a lot of investors think the technology stocks are immune to everything that`s been going on in the market, interest rates and what have you. Would you say then if you have technology stocks in your portfolio, just generally speaking, lighten up on them a little bit or what? 

 MCCABE: Well, I would say if people, either through purchasing technology stocks or by way of the stocks` appreciation in price with this great boom of the past six months, those with high positions or very large exposure probably should take some profits and cut back a little bit. I`m not suggesting that technology is not a great wave of the future for the economy but sometimes the stock market in expectations of investors get beyond reality and then they settle back a little bit and prices deflate for a while. 

 GHARIB: What about bonds? 

 MCCABE: I think bonds look good. Bonds had a price decline which was quite vicious between a high in prices back in October of `98 and January of this year. Yields went from about 4.7 percent to 6.7 percent during that time. I think bonds are very over sold in terms of price as they`re bottoming out and a great time to buy them. 

 GHARIB: OK, thank you very much, Dick. 

 MCCABE: Thank you, Susie. 

 GHARIB: A pleasure talking to you, as always. 

 MCCABE: And you, too. 

 GHARIB: And we have been speaking with Dick McCabe of Merrill Lynch. 

 KANGAS: A huge deal is in the works tonight to create a one stop shopping company for the Internet. Verisign (VRSN) is buying Network Solutions (NSOL). As Darren Gersh explains, with a $21 billion price tag, it`s the most expensive acquisition of any Internet company to date. 

 DARREN GERSH, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: Network Solutions issues the Internet equivalent of a birth certificate, registering company names called domains so businesses can do business on the Web. Verisign sells what is essentially an Internet social security card, digital certificates that identify online buyers and sellers, making secure transactions possible. Put the two companies together and some analysts say you have a powerful Internet infrastructure strategy. 

 ERIC HEMMENDINGER, INFORMATION SECURITY ANALYST, ABERDEEN GROUP: This was a cradle to grave strategy. If you are Verisign, this allows you to begin to provide services to a company literally at its birth. 

 GERSH: Here`s the deal. Verisign will give 2.15 of its shares for every one share of Network Solutions. Based on yesterday`s closing prices, that values Network Solutions at $21 billion. That`s a 48 percent premium over NSI`s closing price of just over $360. After news of the acquisition broke today, Verisign shares plunged 19 percent, a sign the markets think it overpaid. But Verisign CEO Stratton Sclavos disagrees. 

 STRATTON SCLAVOS, PRESIDENT/CEO, VERISIGN: They`ve continued to drive, you know, significant revenues, significant profits and tremendous cash flow. So this is really an Internet jewel that we believe was still undiscovered. 

 GERSH: But Network Solutions faces new competitors who offer sharply lower prices. Still, Sclavos says his timing is right. 

 SCLAVOS: It was time for someone to consolidate and really bring a powerhouse to market. 

 GERSH: And after last month`s hacker attacks, demand for security products like Verisign`s is red hot. 

 ULRIC WEIL, SR. TECHNOLOGY ANALYST, FRIEDMAN, BILLINGS, RAMSEY: Everybody now realizes you`ve got to deal with someone who can give you the security, the comfort, the security blanket, if you will, that your transaction is a legitimate transaction. 

 GERSH : Both Verisign and Network Solutions have something you don`t see every day in an Internet company-profits. The two combined made $31 million last year. Darren Gersh, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, Washington. 

 KANGAS: Well, the bears messed up the picnic Wall Street`s been having recently and a bad day especially for the old economy stocks, as they`re now calling them, nearly a 375 point drop in the Dow Industrial Average and more than twice as many declining issues as advancing, only 104 new highs for the year, 260 new lows. 

 Procter and Gamble Co. (PG) topped the active list on 51.3 million shares, the stock down 27 7/16. That cost the Dow 135 points right there after that earnings warning. 

 Compaq Computer (CPQ) dropped 1 5/8. 

 Lucent Technologies (LU), a 5 7/8 point drop there. 

 US Foodservice (UFS) actually really bucking the trend, up 6 1/8. This company`s going to be acquired by Ahold Limited for $26 a share in a tender offer. Bristol Myers (BMY), after dropping 4 1/4 yesterday after Salomon Smith 

 Barney downgraded it from "buy" to "outperform," down another 3 11/16 today. 

 America Online (AOL) dropped just a fraction. 

 Tyco International (TYC) off 1 7/16 after recent gains. 

 Qwest (Q) down 1 1/4. 

 And Pfizer (PFE) off 1 1/4. 

 And another weak drug, Merck (MRK), down 2 9/16. That`s a Dow stock, of course. 

 AMR (AMR), parent of American Airlines, down 4 1/2 as oil futures for April in New York jumped all the way to $34.13 a barrel. 

 Associates First Capital (AFS) down 2 3/16 after Morgan Stanley downgraded the stock from "outperform" to just "neutral." 

 Colgate Palmolive (CL), another consumer products company like P&G getting hurt in this sell-off, down 6 1/16. 

 But Exxon Mobil (XOM), a Dow stock, up 8 1/16, the best gainer in the Dow obviously on those higher oil prices, above $34 a barrel. 

 General Electric (GE) was the second worst performer in the Dow point wise, off 7 1/2. 

 And then Reynolds Metals (RLM) off almost 3 points. There`s a rumor circulating the proposed merger with Alcoa may be in trouble. It may not gel. 

 Chyron Corp. (CHY) up almost 2 points, the best percentage gainer of the day. The New York Stock Exchange said the company refused to comment on its stock activity and we couldn`t do any better than the big board. 

 Duff and Phelps Credit Rating Company (DCR) up 18 points. This is going to be acquired by Fitch IBCA Corp. in a $100 a share cash tender offer. 

 NS Group (NSS) up nearly 2 points. This company makes oil and gas pipes and that`s where the interest is suddenly getting very keen. 

 Pe Biosystems Group (PEB) the big percentage loser other than Procter & Gamble, down 29 3/4. That`s a combination of profit taking and some signs that efforts to combine public and private approaches to human gene mapping are not really going very well right now. 

 Biomatrix (BXM) off 5 5/16. Morgan Stanley Brokerage downgraded the stock from "strong buy" to just a "hold." 

 And Loral Space and Communications (LOR) dropping 2 3/16 after Merrill Lynch downgraded an "accumulate" rating to a "near term neutral." 

 NASDAQ down 57.01 on the Index, but that`s only 1.2 percent. Trading volume was 129 million shares ahead of yesterday`s pace, about 17 stocks up for every 25 down. 

 Microsoft (MSFT) topped the active list, up 2 1/4. A number of analysts are saying the company may soon settle its anti-trust case with the Justice 

 Department. Goldman Sachs repeated a "buy" on the stock. 

 JDS Uniphase (JDSU) down 5 11/16. 

 Verisign (VRSN) tumbling 47 7/16 on that news it`s going to come up with $21 billion in stock to buy Network Solutions. That deal is worth about $430 a share for Network and we`ll see that stock in just a moment. 

 Cisco (CSCO) down 4 1/16. 

 Intel (INTC) dropped 1 5/8. 

 Oracle (ORCL) was off just a fraction. 

 3Com (COMS) bucking the trend, up 2 11/16. 

 And then Network Solutions (NSOL) up 46 49/64. That deal, as I say, is worth about 430 as of today. 

 Yahoo! (YHOO) down 3/16. 

 And QUALCOMM (QCOM) dropped 5 1/4, 10th in NASDAQ dollar volume. 

 Net2000 Communications (NTKK) went public today, 10 million shares offered at 20, stock opened at 37, the high of the day 40 and then it backed off about 5. iGate Capital (IGTE), that`s the new name for the old Mastech Corporation, which has become a holding company for Internet startup companies. So it`s kind of like an incubator. 

 And then Cinar (CINR), this is a Canadian children`s television producer, big trouble. The company`s founders resigned yesterday and also the CFO was fired yesterday and the Canadian Mounties are actually investigating the company. 

 The American Exchange Index down nearly 5 1/2 points after four consecutive record highs. 

 PLC Systems (PLC) up 1 1/8. That`s the best percentage gainer on the curb. Tomorrow, doctors worldwide will be able to view the company`s TMI heart surgery via the Internet. And Stillwater Mining (SWC), a palladium producer, up 5 1/2. Morgan Stanley began covering the stock today with a "strong buy." It has a near-term target of $51 a share. 

 And finally, the Index Shares, as you might expect, all major losers today. 

 That`s the Wall Street Wrap Up. Susie? 

 GHARIB: OK, Paul. The NASDAQ Stock Exchange wants to delay trading in decimals until next year. The switchover from fractions was supposed to 

 happen on July 3rd, but the NASDAQ says trading volume is growing so fast that it`s just not ready to make the switch and wants the SEC to delay it. 

 KANGAS: Tomorrow, some things to consider if you`re considering investing in biotech stocks. 

 GHARIB: AT&T (T) is trying to stop Bell Atlantic (BEL) from offering long distance service in New York. AT&T says that the Bell company mishandled thousands of orders from customers who wanted to switch their local service to AT&T or MCI. Bell Atlantic disputes AT&T`s claims and says it won`t shut off its long distance service. AT&T stock lost a point to 52 1/2 today. Bell Atlantic fell 1 3/8 to 55 5/8. 

 KANGAS: eBay (EBAY) is revving up its car business. The online auction house is teaming up with Autotrader.com to build a new auction site devoted to auto sales. The deal combines eBay`s access to customers with Autotrader`s inventory of cars. The company hopes to attract both buyers and sellers. Terms of the deal were not disclosed but it sparked eBay`s stock a bit, which closed up 1 1/4 at 162 13/16. 

 GHARIB: Charles Schwab (SCH) is doing more wheeling and dealing, this time, with Barclays of Europe. They`re teaming up to create a foreign exchange facility. The service will let Schwab`s online customers trade stocks denominated in different currencies without negotiating separate foreign exchange contracts. Barclays will run the Forex, providing currency pricing and execution. The new service will be available later this year. 

 KANGAS: Not surprisingly, the best performing mutual funds in January and February were almost all sector funds specializing in such hot areas as biotech and European stocks. But just behind them was a small fund with diversified holdings, Frontier Equity Fund. During the first two months of this year, it returned a whopping 107 percent, bringing its one year return to almost 183 percent. Wisconsin based James Fay is the manager who led Frontier Equity to those incredible results and he`s been at its helm since the Fund started. And Jim, welcome NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT. 

 JAMES FAY, PORTFOLIO MGR., FRONTIER EQUITY FUND: Thank you, Paul. 

 KANGAS: First, how did your fund fair during today`s sharp sell-off on Wall Street? 

 FAY: Quite well, only down 1 percent. I`m very pleased with it. 

 KANGAS: Versus the Dow drop of over 3 1/2 percent. 

 FAY: Yes. 

 KANGAS: I understand that your fund defies all standard classifications such as growth or value. What kind of stocks do you look for? 

 FAY: Well, I`ll buy anything I think will make money. 

 KANGAS: Anything you think will make money. Well, Frontier Equity has been around for six years. It never took off until the last year or so. Is the fact that you had a hot hand right now entirely due to the popularity of small company stocks? 

 FAY: No, I started buying the small cap stocks six years ago and have stayed with it and have been adding to positions and the market is finally realizing the value. 

 KANGAS: What are the current largest holdings in the fund? 

 FAY: Mitek Systems, MITK is the symbol, Energy Biosystems, EMBC, and Netrix, NTRX. 

 KANGAS: Are you in these stocks for the longer run or just trading type situation? 

 FAY: I`m generally a longer-term holder. 

 KANGAS: OK, now we should point out your fund is one of the smallest funds around in terms of asset size and I would assume that you`re now seeing nice inflows of cash. Will that make it tougher for you to make money as you get more money coming? 

 FAY: I don`t think it`ll be tougher to make money. I`ve got more ideas than I have money so. 

 KANGAS: Give us some new ideas. We have about a minute left here. 

 FAY: Well, I`d like to add on to another position called digital video systems. DVID is the symbol. That`s quite popular. I would be adding on to RSI Systems (RSIS), which is a video teleconferencing company. 

 KANGAS: And what is the total asset value now of the fund? 

 FAY: $1.4 million. 

 KANGAS: It is a small fund, indeed, but if you keep this growth rate up, it`s going to be a lot bigger in a hurry and you won`t delve into anything but the smaller company stocks? 

 FAY: No. We can, we don`t have a limit on staying in small companies. If I think there`s a good chance to make money in larger companies, I`ll certainly buy those, also. 

 KANGAS: For instance, after a day like we saw in Procter & Gamble stock, would that be interesting to you eventually or maybe now? 

 FAY: Well, for my taste it would have to be a little less costly than it currently is. 

 KANGAS: OK. Well, Jim, we certainly hope that you can continue to bring in those double digit returns for your investors. And thanks very much for being with us. 

 FAY: Thank you, Paul. 

 KANGAS: My guest, James Fay, President and Portfolio Manager of Frontier Equity Fund. 

 GHARIB: Well, recapping today`s market action, a tough day for investors. The Dow fell a whopping 374 points and the NASDAQ lost 57. And please join us at our World Wide Web site, NBR.com, or on America Online, keyword: "NBR." And that`s NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT for this Tuesday, March 7th. We want to remind you this is the time of year that your public television station seeks viewer support. 

 KANGAS: Support that makes programs like NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT possible. 

 GHARIB: Absolutely. So thanks for joining us this evening. I`m Susie Gharib. Good night, everyone. And you too, Paul. 

 KANGAS: Good night, Susie. I`m Paul Kangas, wishing all of you the best of good buys. 

 Nightly Business Report transcripts are available on-line post-broadcast. The program is transcribed by FDCH. Updates may be posted at a later date. 

 The views of our guests and commentators are their own and do not necessarily represent the views of Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. Nightly Business Report, or WPBT. 

 Information presented on Nightly Business Report is not and should not be considered as investment advice. 

 c2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. 

 END 

 TO PURCHASE A VIDEOTAPE OF THIS PIECE, PLEASE CALL  888-266-3601 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc.  Formatting and transcription copyright 2000 eMediaMillWorks, Inc.  (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No quotes from the materials contained herein may be used in any media without attribution to Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. This transcript may not be copied or resold in any media. 

Document nbr0000020010808dw370001b
 

 Business 
 NYSE 

 Sasha Salama, Christine Romans 
765 words
7 March 2000
14:30
CNNfn: Market Coverage - Morning
MKTM
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 SASHA SALAMA, CNNfn ANCHOR, MARKET COVERAGE:  And the divergence in the markets continue. The Dow on on the down side, with negative market breadth over there.  Let`s check in now with Christine Romans at the New York Stock Exchange for a look at what is going on, and of course, Christine, I`m wondering, has Procter & Gamble (URL: http://www.pg.com/) opened yet? 

 CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT:  Still waiting for that one to open, Sasha.  In fact, the indications on how that stock is expected to open keep getting worse and worse.  The latest indication, 58 to  $61 a share is where they are looking for PG to open.  Now it closed yesterday at 87 and change.  The CEO of Procter & Gamble on the wires saying that its recent profit warning that it issued this morning is a, quote, "setback," and indeed, investors looking at that setback, selling down the stock to the tune of at least $11 in Instinet pre-market trading in expectation for Procter & Gamble to  take another hit. 

 Now even as we wait for Procter & Gamble to open, we already have the Dow on the downside, to the tune of 72 points at 10,097, below some support levels that traders have been looking at in the early going here. 

 This is that same old story emerges, as the technology sector continues to rally here, the blue chips, they lag and that is this old economy-new economy argument that continues.  Also some people are saying that yesterday`s 1.9 percent decline in the Dow shook the bulls sort of tentative confidence that they managed to get from the five higher closes last week. 

 Now let`s take a look at the most actively traded issues here, in the first 40 minutes of trade or so.  Among those, we have a smattering of technology stocks on the most actives list here. 

 Compaq Computer (URL: http://www.compaq.com/) among them, CPQ.  It is off slightly at 27 and change. 

 Lucent (URL: http://www.lucent.com/) Technologies down almost 3. Saying it will increase the fiber-optic output by more than 16 percent this year.  Now Lucent is a widely-held stock, and Lucent, by the way, is down about 2 percent this year. 

 We have Procter & Gamble (URL: http://www.pg.com/) just opening for trading here, P&G open for trading, down 29 and change in the early going here.  So we expect that one to be on the most actives list here, too, when things get up and running there.  America Online (URL: http://www.aol.com/) is up $1 and change. 

 Philip Morris (URL: http://www.philipmorris.com/) , MO, down slightly. 

 And Qwest Communications (URL: http://www.qwest.net/) down 3, it lost more than 7 yesterday after announcing it was in talks with a major telecom company about a deal.  Of course, lots of folks on the Street thinking that telecom company is Deutsche Telekom (URL: http://www.dtag.de/) , and wondering what this all means for its pending merger with U S West (URL: http://www.uswest.com/) . And what it means for the telecom space as a whole. 

 So Sasha, back to you. 

 SALAMA:  OK, thank you very much, Christine Romans.  And P&G down 29 1/2 now to 58.  We`ll be watching that one closely. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by eMediaMillWorks, Inc.  (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.)  No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may  not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material  for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or 

 interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media  may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and  copyright holder of such material.  This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document mktm000020010808dw37000xn
 

 

 Dow Nosedives, Nasdaq Eases after Hitting Record 

145 words
7 March 2000
23:45
Jiji Press English News Service
JIJI
English
(c) 2000

 New York, March 7 (Jiji Press) - The Dow Jones industrial average fell steeply Tuesday on worries over corporate earnings and rising oil prices, and the Nasdaq composite index eased after topping 5,000 temporarily. 

 The 30-issue Dow dropped 374.47 points, or 3.7 pct, from Monday to 9,796.03, closing under the 10,000 mark for the first time since Feb. 25. This was the fourth-largest point loss. 

 Volume on the New York Stock Exchange rose 285.04 million shares to 1,314.1 million shares. 

 Procter and Gamble's tumble after issuing a profit warning triggered a broad-based sell-off, brokers said. 

 The Nasdaq composite index finished down 57.01 points at 4,847.84. It came under heavy profit-taking pressure after breaching the 5,000 line in early trading. JIJ 

Document jiji000020010812dw3700jn2
 

 

 European stocks fall 

365 words
7 March 2000
20:25
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 LONDON (AP) - European share prices fell Tuesday, led by telecom and automobile stocks, following a sharp drop in Dow Jones industrial average. 

 The Dow Jones Stoxx Index of shares in European companies fell 2.88 points, or 0.7 percent, to 402.62, and the Dow Jones Stoxx 50 Index fell 45.63 points to 5,111.09. 

 The Dow Jones Euro Stoxx Index, which tracks companies in countries that joined the single currency, was down 4.27 points to 461.97. The Dow Jones Euro Stoxx 50 Index was down 38.07 points to 5,426.36 points. 

 London's FTSE-100 Share Index fell 1.5 percent to 6,466.5, Frankfurt's Xetra DAX Index rose 1.1 percent to 8,064.97, the Paris CAC-40 Index was down 1.6 percent to 6,441.85, Milan's MIBtel Index was down 2.3 percent to 34,030, and Amsterdam's AEX Index ended down 0.4 percent to 677.21 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average Index dropped more than 220 points in early U.S. trading on ongoing interest-rate fears and a profitwarning by Procter & Gamble caused by an increase in raw material costs. In late afternoon trading, it was down about 2.7 percent. 

 This contributed to the decline in European equity markets late in the afternoon. 

 The Dow Jones Stoxx telecom index was 3 percent lower and the Dow Jones Stoxx technology fell 1.2 percent. 

 The Dow Jones Stoxx auto index was down a sharp 3 percent, with shares in Renault, Peugeot and BMW were down. DaimlerChrysler fell on speculation the German carmaker could take a 30 percent stake in ailing Japanese giant Mitsubishi Motors. 

 Banking and financial services shares rose across Europe following news of a linkup between Dresdner Bank and Deutsche Bank. The Dow Jones Stoxx bank index rose 0.6 percent and the Dow Jones Stoxx financial services index rose 1.4 percent. 

 In London, the FTSE 100 personal care and household products subindex plunged 8.5 percent after the P&G warning. Food products were down 5.6 percent and beverages down 4.6 percent. 

Urgent

Document aprs000020010803dw37055hw
 

 

 European stocks fall 

330 words
7 March 2000
19:27
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 LONDON (AP) - European share prices fell Tuesday following a sharp drop in the Dow Jones Industrial Average Index, led by telecom and automoile stocks. 

 The Dow Jones Stoxx Index of shares in European companies fell 2.88 points, or 0.7 percent, to 402.62, and the Dow Jones Stoxx 50 Index fell 45.63 points to 5111.09. 

 The Dow Jones Euro Stoxx Index, which tracks companies in countries that joined the single currency, was down 4.27 points to 461.97. The Dow Jones Euro Stoxx 50 Index was down 38.07 points to 5426.36 points. 

 London's FTSE-100 Share Index fell 1.5 percent, Frankfurt's Xetra DAX Index rose 1.1 percent, the Paris CAC-40 Index was down 1.6 percent, Milan's MIBtel Index was down 2.3 percent, and Amsterdam's AEX Index ended down 0.4 percent. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average Index dropped more than 220 points in early U.S. trading, on interest-rate fears and a profit warning by Procter and Gamble. 

 This contributed to the decline in European equity markets late in the afternoon. 

 The Dow Jones Stoxx telecom index was 3 percent lower and the Dow Jones Stoxx technology fell 1.2 percent. 

 The Dow Jones Stoxx auto index was down a sharp 3 percent, with shares in Renault, Peugeot and BMW were down, and DaimlerChrysler fell on speculation the German carmaker could take a 30 percent stake in ailing Japanese giant Mitsubishi Motors. 

 Banking and financial services shares rose across Europe following news of a link-up between Dresdner Bank and Deutsche Bank. The Dow Jones Stoxx bank index rose 0.6 percent and the Dow Jones Stoxx financial services index rose 1.4 percent. 

 In London, the FTSE 100 personal care and household products subindex plunged 8.5 percent after the Procter and Gamble warning. Food products were down 5.6 percent and beverages down 4.6 percent. 

 (acw) 

Urgent

Document aprs000020010803dw37054pn
 

 

 Dow drops nearly 375, spoiling Nasdaq's big day 

731 words
7 March 2000
21:35
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - The Dow Jones industrials plummeted nearly 375 points Tuesday after an earnings warning from Procter and Gamble unnerved investors already worried about profits at blue-chip and industrial companies. The Dow's plunge dragged the broader market lower and overshadowed the Nasdaq composite index's first foray past 5,000. 

 The Dow fell 374.47, or 3.7 percent, to close at 9,796.03, its fourth-biggest one-day point drop and its lowest close since March 31, 1999. The Dow was off than 400 points in late trading before edging higher just before the close. 

 The Nasdaq, which had soared more than 100 points to 5,006.78 in early trading, finished lower as profit-taking and computer-driven trading that kicked in at the 5,000 mark sapped its strength. 

 Broader indicators were mostly lower. 

 The Nasdaq composite index fell 57.01 to 4,847.84 and the Standard and Poor's 500 fell 35.66 to 1,355.62. 

 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 2-to-1 margin on the New York Stock Exchange, with 2,104 down, 982 up and 422 unchanged. 

 NYSE volume totaled 1.30 billion shares as of 4 p.m., vs. 1.03 billion in the previous session. 

 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 6.18 to 595.46. 

 Blue-chip stocks sank after Procter and Gamble handed Wall Street analysts a dramatic profit warning for the second half of its fiscal year. The consumer goods company said earnings will fall sharply, missing analysts' expectations as well as its own estimates, because of higher costs of pulp and raw materials. 

 Procter and Gamble's announcement fed investor fears that other blue-chip and industrial companies might warn of similar troubles in the coming weeks. Companies are scheduled to report their first-quarter earnings next month. 

 Merrill Lynch downgraded the entire consumer products sector, depressing stocks including Colgate Palmolive and Kimberly Clark. Those companies have not issued any warnings about earnings. 

 Richard McCabe, chief market analyst at Merrill Lynch, said P and G's struggles with rising costs of materials may have sparked worries that inflation is rearing up at the most basic levels of the economy. 

 "Consumer goods stocks are usually defensive stocks," he said. "You need their soap and shampoo no matter what the economy is doing." 

 But no matter how safe sales and revenues may be, profits are sure to tumble if costs continue to escalate, McCabe said. 

 Procter and Gamble wasn't the only drag on the Dow. American Express and Coca-Cola also fell. 

 Only Exxon Mobil and Microsoft contained the Dow's losses. Exxon Mobil was the sole blue-chip beneficiary of the latest rise in oil prices, which stoked inflation fears in the rest of the group. Microsoft rose following a positive report from a Goldman Sachs analyst. 

 With the Dow spiraling lower, investors paid little note to the Nasdaq's first trip past 5,000. The technology-dominated index crossed 5,000 just over two months after its first close above 4,000. 

 In a bet that technology stocks are best prepared to thrive even if the Federal Reserve continues raising interest rates this year, investors have flocked to those shares at the expense of nearly every other corner of the market. 

 Even with a significant loss Tuesday, the Nasdaq is still up about 19 percent in the year to date, compared with a loss of about 16 percent for the Dow. Analysts said the Nasdaq's incredible gains have left it vulnerable to investors eager to collect some profits. 

 The oil sector provided an exception to the weakness in old-line industrial stocks. The recent rise in oil prices, while frustrating consumers and stimulating some worries about inflation, has bumped up shares of many oil companies. Chevron and Texaco gained. 

 The market's weakness surprised some analysts who had expected stocks to rally on news of improved productivity by American workers. Economists consider healthy productivity gains the key to sustaining economic growth without giving rise to inflation. 

 "Higher productivity is an unmitigated good for the economy," said Stan Shipley, senior economist at Merrill Lynch, noting that the rise in productivity came along with a drop in labor costs. 

 "Inflation just does not emerge from that mix," Shipley said. 

Urgent

Document aprs000020010803dw3704yxd
 

 

 Dow drops nearly 375, spoiling Nasdaq's big day 

 By EILEEN GLANTON 
AP Business Writer
731 words
7 March 2000
21:28
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - The Dow Jones industrials plummeted nearly 375 points today after an earnings warning from Procter & Gamble unnerved investors already worried about profits at blue-chip and industrial companies. The Dow's plunge dragged the broader market lower and overshadowed the Nasdaq composite index's first foray past 5,000. 

 According to preliminary calculations, the Dow fell 374.47 to close at 9,796.03, its fourth-biggest one-day point drop and its lowest close since March 31, 1999. The Dow was off than 400 points in late trading before edging higher just before the close. 

 The Nasdaq, which had soared more than 100 points to 5,006.78 in early trading, finished lower as profit-taking and computer-driven trading that kicked in at the 5,000 mark sapped its strength. 

 Broader indicators were mostly lower. 

 Blue-chip stocks sank after Procter & Gamble handed Wall Street analysts a dramatic profit warning for the second half of its fiscal year. The consumer goods company said earnings will fall sharply, missing analysts' expectations as well as its own estimates, because of higher costs of pulp and raw materials. 

 Procter & Gamble's announcement fed investor fears that other blue-chip and industrial companies might warn of similar troubles in the coming weeks. Companies are scheduled to report their first-quarter earnings next month. 

 Merrill Lynch downgraded the entire consumer products sector, depressing stocks including Colgate Palmolive and Kimberly Clark. Those companies have not issued any warnings about earnings. 

 Richard McCabe, chief market analyst at Merrill Lynch, said P&G's struggles with rising costs of materials may have sparked worries that inflation is rearing up at the most basic levels of the economy. 

 "Consumer goods stocks are usually defensive stocks," he said. "You need their soap and shampoo no matter what the economy is doing." 

 But no matter how safe sales and revenues may be, profits are sure to tumble if costs continue to escalate, McCabe said. 

 Procter & Gamble wasn't the only drag on the Dow. American Express and Coca-Cola also fell. 

 Only Exxon Mobil and Microsoft contained the Dow's losses. Exxon Mobil was the sole blue-chip beneficiary of the latest rise in oil prices, which stoked inflation fears in the rest of the group. Microsoft rose following a positive report from a Goldman Sachs analyst. 

 With the Dow spiraling lower, investors paid little note to the Nasdaq's first trip past 5,000. The technology-dominated index crossed 5,000 just over two months after its first close above 4,000. 

 In a bet that technology stocks are best prepared to thrive even if the Federal Reserve continues raising interest rates this year, investors have flocked to those shares at the expense of nearly every other corner of the market. 

 Even with a significant loss today, the Nasdaq is still up about 19 percent in the year to date, compared with a loss of about 16 percent for the Dow. Analysts said the Nasdaq's incredible gains have left it vulnerable to investors eager to collect some profits. 

 "The Nasdaq has a history of having trouble penetrating major new barriers," said Robert Stovall, market analyst at Prudential Securities. "There's a strong impulse to take profits, because it seems unbelievable that this thing can keep running." 

 A $21 billion merger stimulated the technology sector. VeriSign Inc., a leading provider of Internet encryption technology, is buying Network Solutions Inc., best known as a registry for domain names on the Internet. Network Solutions soared, while VeriSign fell. 

 The oil sector provided an exception to the weakness in old-line industrial stocks. The recent rise in oil prices, while frustrating consumers and stimulating some worries about inflation, has bumped up shares of many oil companies. Chevron and Texaco gained. 

 The market's weakness surprised some analysts who had expected stocks to rally on news of improved productivity by American workers. Economists consider healthy productivity gains the key to sustaining economic growth without giving rise to inflation. 

 "Higher productivity is an unmitigated good for the economy," said Stan Shipley, senior economist at Merrill Lynch, noting that the rise in productivity came along with a drop in labor costs. 

 "Inflation just does not emerge from that mix," Shipley said. 

Urgent

Document aprs000020010803dw3704yqt
 

 

 European Stocks Fall 

369 words
7 March 2000
AP Online
ASP
English
 Copyright 2000 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. 

 LONDON (AP) - European share prices fell Tuesday, led by telecom and automobile stocks, following a sharp drop in Dow Jones industrial average. 

 The Dow Jones Stoxx Index of shares in European companies fell 2.88 points, or 0.7 percent, to 402.62, and the Dow Jones Stoxx 50 Index fell 45.63 points to 5,111.09. 

 The Dow Jones Euro Stoxx Index, which tracks companies in countries that joined the single currency, was down 4.27 points to 461.97. The Dow Jones Euro Stoxx 50 Index was down 38.07 points to 5,426.36 points. 

 London's FTSE-100 Share Index fell 1.5 percent to 6,466.5, Frankfurt's Xetra DAX Index rose 1.1 percent to 8,064.97, the Paris CAC-40 Index was down 1.6 percent to 6,441.85, Milan's MIBtel Index was down 2.3 percent to 34,030, and Amsterdam's AEX Index ended down 0.4 percent to 677.21 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average Index dropped more than 220 points in early U.S. trading on ongoing interest-rate fears and a profitwarning by Procter & Gamble caused by an increase in raw material costs. In late afternoon trading, it was down about 2.7 percent. 

 This contributed to the decline in European equity markets late in the afternoon. 

 The Dow Jones Stoxx telecom index was 3 percent lower and the Dow Jones Stoxx technology fell 1.2 percent. 

 The Dow Jones Stoxx auto index was down a sharp 3 percent, with shares in Renault, Peugeot and BMW were down. DaimlerChrysler fell on speculation the German carmaker could take a 30 percent stake in ailing Japanese giant Mitsubishi Motors. 

 Banking and financial services shares rose across Europe following news of a linkup between Dresdner Bank and Deutsche Bank. The Dow Jones Stoxx bank index rose 0.6 percent and the Dow Jones Stoxx financial services index rose 1.4 percent. 

 In London, the FTSE 100 personal care and household products subindex plunged 8.5 percent after the P&G warning. Food products were down 5.6 percent and beverages down 4.6 percent. 

AP-European-Stocks-Rdp; D732MC2G0

Document asp0000020010804dw3700qje
 

 

 AP Financial NewsBriefs: Tuesday, March 7, 2000 

1,360 words
7 March 2000
AP Online
ASP
English
 Copyright 2000 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. 

 Dow Ends Off 374; Nasdaq Under 5000 

 NEW YORK (AP) - The Dow Jones industrials plummeted nearly 375 points today after an earnings warning from Procter & Gamble unnerved investors already worried about profits at blue-chip and industrial companies. The Dow's plunge dragged the broader market lower and overshadowed the Nasdaq composite index's first foray past 5,000. The Dow fell 374.47 to close at 9,796.03, its fourth-biggest one-day point drop. The Dow was off than 400 points in late trading before edging higher just before the close. The Nasdaq, which had soared more than 100 points to 5,006.78 in early trading, finished lower as profit-taking and computer-driven trading that kicked in at the 5,000 mark sapped its strength. The Nasdaq composite index fell 57.05 to 4,847.80. 

 Consumer Products Stocks Are Hit 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Procter & Gamble's announcement of lower expectations fed investor fears that other blue-chip and industrial companies might warn of similar troubles in the coming weeks. Companies are scheduled to report their first-quarter earnings next month. And Merrill Lynch downgraded the entire consumer products sector, depressing stocks including Colgate Palmolive and Kimberly Clark. Those companies have not issued any warnings about earnings. Richard McCabe, chief market analyst at Merrill Lynch, said P&G's struggles with rising costs of materials may have sparked worries that inflation is rearing up at the most basic levels of the economy. 

 Financial Figures 


NEW YORK (AP) - Financial figures at the close:
Dow Industrials:         9796.03 - 374.47
NYSE Issues:         Advances  973  Declines 2081  Unchgd  449
NYSE Volume:       1,304,943,750
Most Active NYSE issue:         Procter Gamble60      - 27 7/16
S&P 500:         1355.62 - 35.66
AMEX Mkt Value Index:         1016.94  - 5.42
Nasdaq Composite Index        4847.80  - 57.05
Gold(final) -    $292.20    troy oz., NY Comex spot month Tue.
Silver(final) -   UNCH    troy oz., NY Comex spot month Mon.



P&G Issues Disappointing Forecast



CINCINNATI (AP) - Procter & Gamble Co.'s management said today it
expects third-quarter earnings per share to be 10 percent to 11 percent
below a year ago to 64 or 65 cents a share, compared with the company's
previous estimate of an increase of 7 percent to 9 percent. Analysts had
been expecting earnings of about 78 cents per share. Earnings per share
for the fiscal year are now expected to be up about 7 percent versus the
13 percent increase that P&G had anticipated, management said. The
company's fiscal year ends June 30. P&G shares fell 26 15/16 to close at
60 1/2 .



Productivity Surges in 4th Quarter



WASHINGTON (AP) - A key to economic prosperity that helps keep
inflation in check took its biggest leap in seven years, rising at a 6.4
percent rate at the end of 1999. But the surge in U.S. workers'
productivity didn't change economists' predictions of higher interest
rates in the coming months. Productivity - output per hour worked - was
even stronger than the government previously estimated for the fourth
quarter and exceeded the stellar 5 percent annual rate of growth posted
in the third quarter, the Labor Department said today.



Boeing Slows Deliveries of Jets



SEATTLE (AP) - The Boeing Co.'s manufacture and delivery of
jetliners, already slowed by labor strife, is now up against another
delaying factor: replacing substandard fasteners on a number of planes.
The fasteners, made from an aluminum alloy that makes them prone to
cracking, were installed on wings, engine housings and parts of the
fuselage in planes that entered Boeing's Seattle-area production lines
since December, a company spokesman said. The company also determined
that 20 aircraft currently in service may also have defective fasteners.
The fasteners on all 20 planes - which are 737, 757 and 777 jets - have
been tracked down and are all located in the planes' engine housings.
Boeing officials would not identify the airlines involved. There have
been no reports of fastener failures.



EBay Fuels Used-Car Auction Site



ATLANTA (AP) - EBay Inc. and Autotrader.com have created a new
auction Web site, hoping more consumers will buy used cars and trucks
online. Chip Perry, president and chief executive of Atlanta-based
Autotrader.com, said today that the companies hope to attract both
sellers and dealers, offering them a cheaper way to advertise used cars
than traditional newspaper classifieds. Autotrader.com already offers
1.5 million used-car listings, connecting customers to 40,000 auto
dealers and 250,000 private sellers. EBay, the world's largest online
trading site, claims a community of 10 million buyers and sellers.



VeriSign Buying Network Solutions



NEW YORK (AP) - VeriSign Inc., a leading provider of Internet
encryption technology, is buying Network Solutions Inc. in a $21 billion
deal. The idea is to offer businesses a range of Web services, from
setting up Internet sites to securing transactions. Network Solutions
once was the sole registry for domain names on the Internet. But since
the registration market was opened last year to competition, the company
has been selling additional services, such as helping companies start
Web sites and security services. VeriSign, for its part, has attracted
growing demand for its range of sophisticated encryption products and
consulting services, which help businesses encode e-mail, Web site
transactions and sensitive Internet information.



USDA Plans Organic Food Standards



WASHINGTON (AP) - New rules proposed today for organic food will
provide the first uniform, national standards for its production and bar
the use of genetically engineered crops, irradiation or industrial
sludge as a fertilizer. The standards, which are expected to go into
effect later this year, will be the "most comprehensive, strictest
organic rules in the world" and will smooth the way for U.S. farmers to
sell organic food in Europe and other foreign markets, said Agriculture
Secretary Dan Glickman.



German Banks Discuss Cooperation



FRANKFURT, Germany (AP) - Deutsche Bank AG, the world's biggest bank,
said it is holding talks with rival Dresdner Bank AG amid reports it
seeks a merger to create a banking colossus with more than $1.2 trillion
in assets. A deal between the two banks would create an institution even
larger than the planned merger involving Japanese giants Dai-Ichi Kangyo
Bank, Fuji Bank and the Industrial Bank of Japan. Those companies agreed
in August to combine by 2005 to create a bank with just over $1 trillion
in assets. Analysts said a merger of the German institutions would help
them join the top echelon of worldwide investment banks, an ambition of
both.



EU Picks New IMF Candidate



BERLIN (AP) - A spokesman for the current EU president, Portuguese
Prime Minister Antonio Guterres, says the new European candidate to head
the International Monetary Fund will be Horst Koehler, who now heads the
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in London. He made the
statement after Germany's candidate to head the IMF announced his
withdrawal from the running because of U.S. opposition to his candidacy.
Caio Koch-Weser, Germany's deputy finance minister, had come under harsh
criticism from the United States as being unqualified for the post. The
15-nation European Union had given him its unanimous support after
months of debate and personal lobbying by Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder.



Iraq: OPEC Won't Bow to Pressure



BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP) - Iraq expects OPEC to resist any U.S. pressure to
boost oil output in March to ease world prices, according to Oil
Minister Amer Mohammed Rashid. Rashid predicted that when the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries meets March 27 in Vienna
it will not raise production levels before July, when the third quarter
begins. "We are determined and prepared to resist American pressure on
OPEC states," the minister said in an interview to appear Wednesday in
the state-run newspaper al-Jumhouriya. "We expect that the decision to
increase output will be deferred until after the next summer."



Economic Reports



WASHINGTON (AP) - Economic reports:



Productivity: up 6.4 percent



Wednesday: Regional economic conditions



Thursday: Jobless claims


AP-Financial-NewsBrief; D732NVU80

Document asp0000020010804dw3700qg9
 

 

 Procter and Gamble plunges on  profit warning 

471 words
7 March 2000
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 NEW YORK, March 7 (AFP) - Procter and Gamble shares lost nearly one-third of its value in early trading Tuesday after the consumer products giant warned it would not meet profit estimates. 

 Around 1715 GMT, P and G shares were off 27-15/16 to 59-1/2. It had closed Monday at 87-7/16. 

 P and G -- which was downgraded by Merrill Lynch, JP Morgan and DLJ -- helped drag down the entire Dow Jones industrial average. One of the 30 blue chips in the index, P and G accounted for 140 points of the Dow's 235.47 point slide to 9935.03 points at midday 

 The group, a maker of brand-name detergents, pharmaceuticals and food, warned that profits in the quarter to June 30 would be 10 to 11 percent lower than the year-ago figure, having earlier projected it would be seven to nine percent higher. 

 It remained positive about its 2001 results, however, predicting a 6 to 8 percent revenue growth, and rise in earnings per share of 13- 15 percent. 

 The situation, P and G said, was due to an increase in raw materials prices, especially oil derivatives. The group is also facing extra manufacturing, inventory and logistics costs in Europe. 

 Merrill Lynch went on to downgrade other consumer cyclicals stocks, including Colgate, Avon Products, Rayovac, Dial, Clorox, and Alberto Culver, citing its concerns over escalating raw material costs and competition in emerging markets. 

 Merrill Lynch said that other profit warnings in the sector are possible. 

 P and G competitors Colgate-Palmolive lost 5-15/16 at 46-7/8 dollars, Johnson and Johnson lost 3-7/16 at 67-1/16 dollars, while Unilever lost 3-3/8 at 41-5/8. 

 Procter and Gamble was down nearly 50 percent from its mid- January price of 117-3/4 dollars. 

 It was later in January, however, when P and G had another rough passage, its stocks losing 12 percent of their value by the third week in January to end at 102-4/16 on January 21. 

 This was due to talk of the group's possible merger with one of two US pharmaceuticals, Warner-Lambert and American Home Depot. 

 P and G's announcement on January 24 that talks had been terminated did little to halt the slide in its value. 

 Chief executive Durk Jager said the company remains confident that the improvements it is making through Organization 2005 plan, along with renewed cost focus, will create stronger growth. 

 "This has been a transition year. Going forward we are going to focus on P and G basics -- hard-nosed cost management and commitment to deliver expectations -- as well as accelerating sales growth. We have a strong new product pipeline," he said. 

 cs-vl/jlp/rl 

Document afpr000020010803dw3700yvo
 

 

 European shares tumble after Procter and Gamble  profit warning  ATTENTION - UPDATES with closings /// 

749 words
7 March 2000
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 LONDON, March 7 (AFP) - European shares tumbled Tuesday after a surprise profit warning from US giant Procter and Gamble prompted a sell-off on Wall Street, dealers said. 

 Profit-taking also set in among "new economy" stocks after European markets had five sessions in a row of gains, they added. 

 In the 11-nation euro zone, the STOXX 50 was 0.81 percent weaker at 5,114.66 points. The euro was exchanged at 0.9555 dollars in London compared with 0.9579 dollars in early trading. 

 In London, the FTSE 100 index lost 101.3 points, or 1.54 percent, at 6,466.5 points. 

 In Paris, the CAC 40 shed 1.59 percent at 6,441.85 points. 

 But in Frankfurt, the X-DAX rose 1.12 percent to 8,064.97 points, setting two records: a record closing high and the first time the index closed above the 8,000-point level. 

 The German index posted gains on speculation that a merger between Germany's two largest banks will unleash a wave of further consolidation in the financial sector, dealers said. 

 In London, a five-session winning streak came to a halt as the US Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged below the key 10,000-point level in the wake of a profit warning from the world's largest household goods company, Procter and Gamble, dealers said. 

 P and G's warning that core third-quarter earnings per share will be 10-11 percent below the level in the same period a year earlier, sent the FTSE 100, Unilever and Reckitt Benckiser lower. 

 Unilever plunged 33.5 pence to 347.25 and Reckitt Benckiser lost 44 at 472. 

 Dixons topped the worst performers list, losing 254 to 1,231, after Freeserve, in which it holds an 80-percent stake, went into reverse after NTL launched a free Britain-wide Internet service. 

 BT dropped 118 to 1,170. 

 In the oil sector, BGGroup rose 8.5 to 295.25, Shell was up 18.75 at 462.75 and BP Amoco, added 12 at 505.5. 

 The Paris market, after six advancing sessions in a row, was thrown into reverse by the Dow's reaction to a 33-percent decline in P and G's share price. 

 LVMH sharply outperformed the index, climbing 18.50 euros to 375. "There's some speculation that the 1999 figures will be very good," said one Paris trader. 

 France Telecom fell 10.20 to 192.80 as investors continued to take profits from last Thursday's 25-percent share price surge, dealers said. 

 Banking stocks saw choppy activity as speculation that Deutsche Bank and Dresdner will announce a merger later in the week rekindled talk of concentration across Europe, dealers said. 

 Societe Generale slipped 0.90 at 209.80, while CCF was 0.30 higher at 114.50 and BNP-Paribas gained 0.45 to 90.25. 

 Credit Lyonnais fell 1.49 to 39.65 as investors consolidated the sharp gains seen yesterday ahead of full-year results released early Tuesday. 

 Publicis jumped 48 to 697 after the company said it will acquire DeWitt Media of the US, extending its presence in the world's largest advertising market, dealers said. 

 In Frankfurt, the DAX record close came on the back of huge buying interest in financial stocks after Dresdner Bank and DeutscheBank announced they are in advanced talk on some sort of a cooperation, dealers said. 

 Dresdner Bank closed up 9.50 euros at 57 and Deutsche Bank closed up 7.98 at 94.90. 

 The two banks are to reveal details about their plans at a news conference on Thursday morning. 

 Allianz closed 40.70 higher at 380, buoyed by the Dresdner/ Deutsche news because of its stakes in both companies -- 21.7 percent in Dresdner and 5.0 percent in Deutsche. 

 Munich Re, which also has holdings closed up 7.60 at 287.60, HypoVereinsbank closed up 4.58 at 60.97 and Commerzbank was up 3.42 at 40.49. 

 In Zurich the SMI fell 0.53 percent to 7,050.20 points, in Milan the Mib 30 plunged 2.43 perceant to 49,853, in Madrid the Ibex-35 dropped 1.17 percent to 12,667.2, in Amsterdam the AEX lost 0.44 percent at 677.21 and in Brussels the Bel-20 retreated 1.33 percaent to 2,698.78. 

 bur/vs/ml 

Document afpr000020010803dw3700yv0
 

 

 Nasdaq bursts past 5,000 mark but Dow tumbles below 10,000 

270 words
7 March 2000
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 NEW YORK, March 7 (AFP) - Stocks moved in wildly different directions early Tuesday as the Nasdaq composite surged past 5,000 for the first time while the Dow Jones industrials plunged on a profit warning from Procter and Gamble. 

 The Nasdaq, which includes many high-tech and "new economy" stocks, surged nearly 100 points in early trades to top 5000, but then fell back. At 1530 GMT it was down 13.83 points (0.28 percent) at 4,891.02. 

 The Dow meanwhile slumped 250.37 points (2.46 percent) to fall back below 10,000 at 9,920.13. 

 Pulling down the key blue-chip index was Dow component Procter and Gamble, which plummeted 33 percent after announcing its core third- quarter earnings per share will fall 10-11 percent below year- earlier levels. 

 On the bond market, the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond edged up slightly to 6.155 percent from 6.139 percent late Monday. 

 The markets got a lift early from a government figure showing a revised 6.4 percent gain in business productivity and a decline in labor costs. It marked the biggest gain in productivity since 1992. 

 But the markets were roiled by the news from Procter and Gamble, which pulled down many other traditional blue chips. 

 Lucent Technologies fell 4-1/16 to 69-9/16 and America Online rose 1-11/16 to 58-3/8. 

 Microsoft rose 3-1/4 to 93-3/4 and CINAR fell 12-7/32 to 6-5/32. 

 jld/rl/mk 

Document afpr000020010803dw3700yp6
 

 

 SMARTMONEY.COM: Pummeled By Procter & Gamble 

 By Paul R. La Monica 
1,007 words
7 March 2000
23:40
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Smartmoney.com 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Cheer up, Procter & Gamble (PG) shareholders. It could be worse. Imagine how bad the earnings would be if P&G had decided to go through with that massively dilutive acquisition of Warner Lambert (WLA) and American Home Products (AHP) after all. 

 P&G's profit warning sent shockwaves through the market today - even technology stocks shuddered a bit. The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed down 374.47 points, or 3.68% - its fourth-largest point loss ever; the Standard & Poor 500 index ended down 35.66 points, or 2.56%; and the Nasdaq, after cracking the 5000 mark for the first time, turned tail and sank 57.01 points, or 1.6%. Poor P&G itself plunged from $87.44 to $60.06, losing 31.38% of its value in a single day. 

 But why all the furor over what was, after all, a relatively mild earnings warning from a single company? Well, when you delve into the reasons for P&G's profit worries, there's cause to worry about the health of the entire economy and the market as a whole. The company said its third-quarter earnings would be crimped by, among other things, higher-than-anticipated pulp costs and higher costs of petroleum-based raw materials. That may be music to your ears if your portfolio consists only of forest-products and oil-services stocks, but for the rest of us it certainly can be interpreted as a nasty sign of honest-to-god inflation. 

 Forget about asset inflation. Higher stock prices should be the least of the Fed's concerns right now. Oil is above $33 a barrel (a nine-year high). And several major paper producers announced a 6.3% hike in the price of pulp last month. P&G uses tons of petroleum-based plastics in its Pampers and Pert Plus bottles, and tons of wood pulp to make all those rolls of Bounty and Charmin. And its warning, predictably, brought about a slew of downgrades from disappointed analysts, not just for P&G but also many other consumer stocks. Merrill Lynch, for example, downgraded P&G and seven other consumer companies, including Colgate-Palmolive (CL) and Dial (DL). 

 Now, the $64,000 question here is whether this is just another example of P&G tripping over itself or if this is really a sign of inflation rearing its ugly head - despite the four rate hikes from Alan Greenspan. Could the Fed use this example of a blue chip crumbling under the weight of higher commodity costs as a reason to tighten even more than the market was expecting? 

 Rising costs of raw materials have to be a big concern. For now, at least, P&G has effectively said that it can't, or won't, raise its prices to consumers in order to recoup its higher raw-materials costs. Hey, the competition's fierce out there. But you have to wonder how long it will be before the P&Gs, Coca-Colas (KO) and Cloroxes (CLX) of the world try to pass their higher expenses along to the consumer. Tangible evidence of inflation on the producer and consumer side of the equation would certainly scare the Fed into an even more hawkish mode. 

 Then again, P&G and others in the sector may have little choice but to bite the bullet and absorb those higher costs - at the expense of their earnings. In its downgrade of the entire sector, Merrill Lynch expressed concern about how difficult it will be for any of these consumer stocks to offset rising raw-material prices. So, is it possible that only the companies, and their shareholders, will suffer. 

 Interestingly enough, though, some consumer companies rushed to distance themselves from the P&G earnings warning. Colgate-Palmolive put out a press release saying that it backed the first-quarter and full-year earnings expectations of Wall Street, and in a seemingly direct response to P&G's warning said: "Current and projected increases in raw-material and other costs will be more than offset by our extensive worldwide cost-savings initiatives." 

 But Kimberly-Clark (KMB), the maker of Kleenex, announced today that it was increasing the price of some of its tissue products in anticipation of higher raw-material costs. Kimberly-Clark also said it was comfortable with the Street's earnings estimates. When it comes down to it, P&G's earning warning really just complicates matters for the Fed. And it's another reason you can't look at one piece of news in isolation. The market reaction to today's news is just as dramatic and lopsided (albeit in the other direction) as the reaction to Friday's sanguine jobs report for February. 

 To make matters even more confusing, this morning also brought the release of revised fourth-quarter productivity figures. Those numbers offered evidence that the economy is continuing to grow without any worrisome signs of inflation. Unit labor costs - the cost to actually produce goods and services - declined 2.5% in the fourth quarter, the biggest drop in more than seven years. 

 So what now? Do the inflationary effects of rising raw-material costs outweigh the disinflationary effects of slowing job and wage growth and rising productivity? My guess is that the Fed will raise rates again at the end of this month. After that, all bets are off. But it's become clear that something has to give. If more consumer giants start confronting the prospect of shrinking earnings, we may all start seeing higher prices for soda, cereal, diapers and just about everything else in the supermarket. 

 Priceline.com (PCLN) might not find that development troubling. But trust me, the Fed won't be smiling. 

 For more information and analysis of companies and mutual funds, visit SmartMoney.com at http://www.smartmoney.com/

Document dj00000020010805dw37011n8
 

 

 N.Y. Stocks Sink Sharply As  Profit Warning  Explodes 

 By Robert O'Brien 
1,293 words
7 March 2000
21:25
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Blue-chip stocks veered sharply lower, dragging almost every sector of the market in their tow, after a stunning revelation about profit weakness further clouded corporate fundamentals. 

 Shares of Procter & Gamble plunged 27 7/16 to close at 60,  after the giant maker of soaps, foods and other consumer  products surprised Wall Street with a warning that its first  quarter results won't show the kind of expansion Wall Street  has been expecting. The point-loss Tuesday ranked among the worst one-day meltdowns ever sustained by a component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average. 

 In point terms, it trailed only the 31 3/4-point setback that International Business Machines suffered Oct. 19, 1987, the day of the Dow industrial average's worst-ever one-day decline. In percentage terms, the 31% loss topped the 26% pullback IBM notched that day. 

 For blue-chip stocks already hamstrung by concerns about interest rates, Procter & Gamble's announcement served as a direct hit on an already disabled market. 

 A host of issues in the consumer sector suffered big declines: Gillette lost 2 7/16 to 32 7/16, Kimberly-Clark fell 5 5/8 to 45, Coca-Cola dropped 2 5/16 to 46 11/16, and Johnson & Johnson gave up 3 3/8 to 67 1/8. In each case, those stocks sank to 52-week lows. 

 "For the two-thirds of the market operating in the so-called old world economy, profit margins are going to be under a lot of pressure," said Richard Cripps, market strategist at Legg Mason. Rising profits had been counted on to serve as the foil for rising rates, and helped support whatever valuations remained in the sector. Procter & Gamble's warning wiped that out. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average finished the session off  374.47, a drop of 3.68%, to end at 9796.03. 

 The final Dow Jones Industrial Average close was 9796.03,  down 374.47. On the New York Stock Exchange, there were 973 issues advancing, 2,081 declining and 449 unchanged. 

 NYSE volume totaled 1,298,691,150 shares, compared with 1,020,858,550 Monday. 

 The NYSE Composite Index was 588.57, down 15.45. The average price per share fell 1.03 cents. 

 The loss by the Dow industrial average ranked with its worst of all times, at least on a points basis. The 374.47-point decline took fourth place on the list of sharpest single-session losses, and the worst this year; with  three weeks yet to go in just the first quarter, 2000 already has recorded five of the 10 worst one-day declines by  the Dow average. 

 On a percentage basis, the 3.68% setback doesn't rank in the top 20 of all time. At its close of 9796.03, the industrial average marked its lowest finish since April 1. 

 Blame a lot of it on Procter & Gamble, which contributed 136.20 points to the industrial average's setback, accounting  for 36.3% of the loss. 

 The loss would have been worse absent a contribution from  Exxon Mobil, which gained 8 1/16 to 81, as investors bet that OPEC production increases won't be dramatic enough to cut deeply into commodity prices, which themselves continued to trade sharply higher. Crude oil prices reached $33 a barrel in the session, and market watchers said they remained  optimistic about the outlook. 

 "We're anticipating a soft landing for oil prices," said Eugene Nowak, an oil sector analyst at ABN AMRO, who highlighted several names in the group, including Amerada Hess, which gained 3 3/4 to 57 3/4; Kerr-McGee, which rose 4 1/4 to 51 11/16; and Chevron, which increased 7 to 81. 

 Of course, rising crude prices, helpful to the sector, contributed to inflation worries in the broad market. Analysts said that higher costs for energy and other commodity products, coupled with higher wage costs, are a source of pressure on profit margins. 

 Activity in the session picked up dramatically, even over  the frenzied levels of recent trading. Trading on the New York Stock Exchange reached 1.30 billion shares, making it the second busiest day ever, behind the record holder, 1.34 billion on Dec. 17. 

 Rising oil prices also leveled transportation stocks Tuesday. Shares of Continental Airlines lost 1 9/16 to 32, AMR declined 4 1/2 to 51 1/2, and Delta Air Lines dropped 2 1/8 to 43 5/8. The Dow Jones Transportation Average traded about as low as it has since fall 1998, sinking to 2263.59, down 112.0, or 4.73%, in the session. 

 High-technology stocks attempted to ignore the selloff in  the broad list. "A day like today tends to accentuate the move away from traditional stocks into these emerging technology names," Donald Selkin, chief market strategist at  Joseph Gunnar, said Tuesday. 

 Among the select winners, Juniper Networks gained 8 1/16 to 278 11/16, Ariba added 7 1/2 to 324 1/2, Broadcom increased 7 13/16 to 243, and Siebel Systems rose 9 9/16 to 161, all on Nasdaq. Rambus, the chip maker that has posted impressive gains, notched another one, rising 40 11/64 to 367  19/64, while Advanced Micro Devices, exploiting expectations  of higher profits going forward, gained 5 5/8 to 53 1/8. 

 Network Solutions scored a big gain, rising 46 49/64 to 407 25/64 on Nasdaq, after VeriSign said it would pay $21 billion worth of stock to purchase the Herndon, Va., technology concern, which makes a business registering dot.com domain names. VeriSign, the Mountain View, Calif., Internet security services concern, closed 47 7/16 lower at 200 on Nasdaq. 

 But some analysts said they worried that fundamentals in technology may face the same sort of pressure from declining profit margins that hit blue-chip names, or, alternately, that investors may have gotten smug about the invulnerability  of technology. 

 "The bulk of the crowd still wants higher prices," Peter Green, market analyst at Gerard Klauer Mattison, said Tuesday. "I think we could see momentum in Nasdaq slow." 

 By Tuesday's close, some names in technology, in fact, had already begun to slow. Agilent Technologies lost 17 to 142, while Conexant Systems declined 3 5/8 to 98 1/16 on Nasdaq, and Qualcomm eased 5 1/4 to 128, also on Nasdaq. 

 The Nasdaq Composite Index gave up 57.01, a drop of 1.16%, to end at 4847.84. 

 Some gold stocks managed to benefit from the steep selloff in blue-chip names, as investors sought some safe harbor in the face of a declining market. Shares of Barrick Gold gained 15/16 to 17 1/16, while Placer Dome advanced 1 to  9 3/8, and Newmont Mining climbed 2 7/16 to 24 7/16. 

 Maytag bucked the trend that leveled most companies that sell products to consumers, rising 2 to 28, after falling to a 52-week low Monday. Company officials had scheduled a meeting where analysts expected to be told that the company would divert some dollars from the company's share buyback program into research and development. 

 Dow Jones increased 3 7/16 to 67 7/8, after the New York business information and media concern said its first quarter  earnings would beat Wall Street's forecasts. (Dow Jones publishes this newswire.) 

 EOG Resources added 1 5/16 to 18 11/16 in a strong session for energy stocks, after Credit Suisse First Boston started coverage of the Houston oil and gas concern with a buy rating. 

Document dj00000020010805dw37011ih
 

 

 Rising Pulp Prices Could Mean Rebound For Forestry  Companies 

568 words
7 March 2000
20:41
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 By Erik Ahlberg 

 CHICAGO -(Dow Jones)- The effects of higher pulp prices were a surprise to Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) investors Tuesday, but welcome news to forest products analysts who took it as sign of recovery for the beleaguered sector. 

 'It's been in the making,' said analyst Anna E. Torma of Merrill Lynch Global Securities. 

 Paper and forest products companies are generally very cyclical market performers due to the pressures of supply and demand on their products -- and the last several years have not been an exception. 

 Industry earnings have been under the stress of excess capacity, high inventories and only until recently were affected by the resultant low commodity prices. 

 The sector's stocks have suffered. Shares of industry giant Boise Cascade recently traded at 27 1/16, off 1 3/8, or 4.8%, while International Paper traded at 33 5/16, off 1 5/8, or 4.7% -- both near 52-week lows. 

 Though the demand for pulp and paper products is steadily growing and has been for several years, it will take some time to absorb existing inventories and achieve balance again, said Mark Weintraub of Goldman Sachs. 

 'It looks like a tight market for the next year or so' as supplies are restored, Weintraub said. But an additional plus factor, he said, is that not a lot of new capacity is expected to come online this year. 

 And that means a recovery, Torma said. 

 'Investors waiting on the sidelines for the momentum to begin may find themselves missing what could be a fast and furious run,' she said in a report last week. 

 Working against forest product companies has also been the recent break-neck pace of mergers, as several companies unite in order to help better weather the valleys in the cycle, Torma said. 

 In February, Chicago-based Smurfit-Stone Container Corp. (SSCC) announced it was buying St. Laurent Paperboard Inc. (SLW), a Canadian firm, for about $1 billion. Other big mergers include Finland-based UPM-Kymmene Corp.'s (UPM) bid for Champion International (CHA) and Abitibi-Consolidated Inc.'s (T.A.ABY) $4 billion merger with Donohue Inc. (DHC.A DHC.B). 

 The price of pulp, the primary component of tissue and paper products, has been steadily climbing since 1996, when it hit rock bottom prices at just above $500 per ton. Pulp is now trading at $640 per ton and is expected to rise to $680 in April. 

 Torma said that while prices right now are not unusually high, they could still rise up into the $800-per-ton level. 

 Shares of P&G, a component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, recently traded at 60 1/8, off 27 3/8, or 31.2%. The company said in a profit warning that higher-than-expected pulp costs were affecting its outlook. 

 As pulp prices have risen during the last several months, P&G was faced with a dilemma: either continue to face intensifying margin compression in its U.S. tissue business or raise tissue prices to offset increasing pulp costs, according to a January report from Salomon Smith Barney. 


In January, the company began informing its customers that it would be
raising the prices on orders after March 6 and shipments after April 1,
the report said.
By Erik Ahlberg, Dow Jones Newswires, 312-750-4141


Document dj00000020010805dw37011fw
 

 

 P&G Falls On Profit Woes And Drags The Market With It 

 By Cathleen Egan 
1,237 words
7 March 2000
16:43
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Procter & Gamble Co. (PG), arguably  the world's preeminent consumer products company, stunned the consumer sector and the broader market by issuing a profit warning for its third and fourth quarters. 

 Chairman and Chief Executive Durk Jager called the revisions "a setback" and told analysts during a private conference call Tuesday morning that "we'll not disappoint you again." But the broader market obviously doesn't feel as  confident. Consumer stocks of all kinds, with few exceptions, are bearing considerable weakness during Tuesday's trading session. From Coca-Cola Co. (KO) to Gillette Co. (G) to Nabisco Holdings Corp. (NA), stocks in food, beverages and personal goods are getting hit Tuesday. 

 There seems to be a sort of if-it-can-happen-to-P&G-it-can-happen-to-other-companies fear enveloping the market. 

 P&G, a component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, is seen as a bellwether in the consumer sector. As a major player in consumer products that does business in the nooks and crannies of the world, Procter & Gamble is an indicator for how the broader consumer market is faring. 

 So if P&G is having problems, as it says, with pulp prices, then wouldn't Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB), which makes  Kleenex tissues? And if Procter is absorbing greater costs because of higher oil derivatives, than wouldn't any company with a major distribution system that relies on petroleum-based raw materials? And what about Latin America? If P&G is feeling, as it says, competitive pricing in markets  like Chile, Argentina and Brazil, then wouldn't competitors like Avon Products Inc. (AVP), whose second-largest market is  Brazil? 

 Jager told Dow Jones Newswires in an interview that he could not say whether P&G's news is having an impact beyond the company. But he did say that there seems to be "very little positive reaction in the current market environment but when there is the slightest bit of bad news, that tends to reverberate through the entire market." 

 Indeed, the 29% drop in P&G's shares alone is contributing to almost one-half of the market's 196.31 point decline Tuesday. 

 Procter & Gamble's problems - which mostly involve issues of cost management and pricing pressures - became apparent only in the last few weeks, Chairman Jager said. 

 It was just two weeks ago that the company was telling analysts that its earnings and sales guidance for the third quarter was unchanged, that it expected to increase profits by 8% and revenues by about 9%. 

 Then P&G learned that the costs of raw materials like pulp and petroleum rose much faster than it had expected. This was compounded, the company said, by increased manufacturing and logistics costs in Western Europe due to an inventory build-up in the second quarter, pricing pressures in Latin America, and a shift in some minor asset sales to the fourth quarter from the third. 

 Jager said that there was "very little" the company could have done to detect any of these issues sooner, let alone prevent any of them from occurring. It "takes a couple of months" for the effects of such issues to kick in and be noticed, even for a company the size of Procter & Gamble, Jager said. In fiscal 1999, P&G posted sales of $38.1 billion. 

 On their own, these issues would not have had a material impact on the company's performance, but taken together, their collective impact is damaging. This is the conclusion the company recently came to and what prompted disclosure and a private conference call with Wall Street. 

 "We normally provide you an update on the quarter informally during the second week of March," Chief Financial Officer Clayt Daley said during the conference call, according to prepared remarks published on the company's Web site. "However, we've completed our most recent forecast cycle. We have some new information that we need to share with you right away." 

 The information has rocked the market. 

 P&G, which was expecting an 8% increase in third quarter earnings, now expects a 10% to 11% drop. The company disclosed on its Web site that it has lowered profit guidance for the quarter by 13 to 14 cents to 64 to 65 cents a share. Fourth-quarter earnings - though expected to be up 16% to 18% - were also lowered by 3 to 4 cents to 64 to 65 cents a share. 

 As Wall Street swoons over the profit warnings, P&G is spinning another angle: that sales are robust and the company is committed to developing a load of new products that will continue to pump the top line. Procter expects third- and fourth-quarter sales to increase 7% to 8%, which is slightly lower than what it was projecting a few weeks ago but nonetheless double from prior quarters. 

 "(Investors) should feel extremely good about the sales growth," Jager said. "We believe we are creating new franchises that may turn out to be another Tide or Pampers. That is the underlying feeling (investors) should feel confident about." 

 But they don't. At least not now, not today. 

 Major investment banks, including J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corp. and Merrill Lynch & Co., all lowered their investment opinions on Procter & Gamble. 

 "Although we hope to see continued improvement in top-line growth in the 6% to 8% range we would not expect the cost issues to be resolved in the near term," Merrill Lynch analyst Heather Hay wrote in a morning research note to clients. 

 In a bold move, Hay actually downgraded the entire consumer-products sector. P&G's problems, she wrote, spell trouble for the entire group and that "further earnings preannouncements are possible." 

 Procter & Gamble, despite how revered it is by analysts and investors alike, is no stranger to stumbles. 

 In 1997, the company announced an aggressive plan to double sales to $70 billion by 2005. Two years later, P&G backed down from the goal, blaming lackluster volume growth. 

 Analysts didn't seem to mind, however. At the same time P&G said it was highly unlikely that it would meet its long-term sales target, the company stepped up its restructuring efforts and said it was confident that a massive $2 billion charge covering the costs of layoffs and plant closings would create savings and boost the bottom line. 

 Wall Street believed. 

 Now it may not know what to believe. P&G says it's "resharpening" its focus on cost savings. 

 "I think it's not quite the airtight story it used to be," said Mark Godfrey, a senior buyside analyst at the Invesco Funds Group. 

 Sally Dessloch, who covers the company for J.P. Morgan, says shaping up is exactly what she needs to see from Procter, but that "it's going to take a couple of quarters to re-establish their track record." 

 Godfrey agrees. 


"The ship called Procter & Gamble is large, and it doesn't turn around
that quickly," he said. "Some of that wind is out of the sail."
 - Cathleen Egan, Dow Jones Newswires, 201-938-5289;
cathleen.egan@dowjones.com


Document dj00000020010805dw370119p
 

 Business 
 Nightly Business Report 

 Paul Kangas, Susie Gharib 
4,147 words
6 March 2000
23:30
Nightly Business Report
NBR
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 PAUL KANGAS, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT ANCHOR: A bad day for the blue chips, the Dow falls almost 200 points as Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan warns once again of higher interest rates. The NASDAQ Index loses about 10 points. Good evening, I`m Paul Kangas in Miami. 

 SUSIE GHARIB, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT ANCHOR: And I`m Susie Gharib in New York City. Here`s another warning that came out today, gasoline prices will climb towards $2.00 a gallon even if OPEC opens the taps. Then we`ll tell you why these British investors are among hundreds of people suing one of the oldest and best known companies in the world for fraud. 

 GHARIB: Good evening, everyone. The NASDAQ hit a speed bump on the road to 5,000. It came close to that milestone today but then made a U-turn, slipping 10 points. And the Dow got slammed, losing almost 200. Investors got the jitters again after listening to a speech by Alan Greenspan where he repeated his warning that the Federal Reserve is ready to raise rates to slow down the economy. Scott Gurvey reports. 

 SCOTT GURVEY, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: The Dow has now corrected more than 13 percent. The finger pointing today was directed at all the usual suspects. Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan was the top target. At a speech in Boston and in his own unique verbal style, he warned of trouble ahead. 

 ALAN GREENSPAN, CHAIRMAN, FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD: Until market forces assisted by a vigilant Federal Reserve affect the necessary alignment of the growth of aggregate demand with the growth of potential aggregate supply, the full benefits of innovative productivity acceleration are at risk of being undermined by financial and economic instability. 

 GURVEY: The NASDAQ managed to resist the Greenspan tide, the index turning negative near the close. Profit taking is the pundits` explanation here. But with 60 percent of NASDAQ stocks up for the year in spite of rising interest rates, many are worried. 

 ARTHUR LEVITT, CHAIRMAN, SEC: Any way you look at it, many of today`s valuations seem to defy traditional explanation. The run-up of these valuations is largely the result of multiple stock splits and soaring stock prices fueled by an almost insatiable investor appetite. GURVEY: To satisfy that appetite, many have abandoned valuation methods like price earnings and dividend yield. That move does have some justification. 

 KEITH MULLINS, INVESTMENT STRATEGIST, SALOMON SMITH BARNEY: There`s a variety of companies and methods by which we can measure value. The traditional measures have been wrong and I think those investors that have held to that and not looked at the future are those that have been trailing fairly badly. 

 GURVEY: Price to revenue growth and price to market cap are the current favorite valuation methods. The former justifies the dot.coms as investments in the future, but the latter could be a case of money chasing money, as momentum players buy what is popular out of fear of being left behind. 

 JOSEPH MCALINDEN, CIO, MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER ADVISORS: Historically these things do come to a climax and reach extremes and, you know, people talk about the market being over valued but when you carve out the technology area and look at it by itself and then look at the whole rest of the market, the whole rest of the market is actually quite attractive based on price/earnings ratios. 

 GURVEY: Ironically, some of the stocks least in favor are for companies doing well on the earnings front so the tide may shift when first quarter profits are reported. Scott Gurvey, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, New York. 

 KANGAS: Wall Street`s blue chip stocks opened under moderate profit taking pressures in the wake of last Friday`s big 222 point run-up in the Dow Industrial Average with the Dow falling 43 3/4 points by the end of the first hour of trading. The NASDAQ Index, despite Friday`s hefty 160 point gain to a record high continued to rise this morning as it posted a 23 point advance at 10:30 A.M. Federal Reserve Chairman Greenspan`s warning about supply not being able to keep up with demand and the inflationary implications that go with that scenario served to put more down side pressure on the blue chips for the rest of the morning. But the NASDAQ market seemed intent on making a run for the 5,000 level on the Composite Index as it got within 20 points of that level just before noon, when it was up 65 points. 

 The Industrial Average, however, fell to a 101 point loss at 12:30 P.M. Sellers continued to undermine the blue chip sector throughout afternoon trading and the steep losses there even hurt the NASDAQ market. The Dow fell to a closing loss of 196.70 points or 1.9 percent and now stands at 10,170.50. In today`s 262 point trading range, the Industrial Average closed down 213 points from the best level of the session and up only 49 points from the low of the day. The NASDAQ Composite finished with a loss of 9.94 at 4,904.85 in its 93 point trading range. The composite settled 75 1/2 points below its high of the day, up only 17 points from the very low of the session. Big board volume down a bit from Friday but still over a billion shares, getting to be a habit now. And down volume exceeded up volume by about a 7 to 4 ratio. 

 The Dow Transport Index down 58 1/3 points. 

 Utilities had a bad day, down 9.40 or 3.2 percent. 

 The Closing Tick practically neutral at -87. 

 Standard & Poor`s 500 off 17.89. 

 Nearly a 13 point drop on the S&P 100. 

 MidCap 400 off just a fraction. 

 Bridge Futures Price Index up .93. 

 New York Stock Exchange Composite down nearly 6 1/2. 

 Just over a 4 point loss in the Value Line. 

 But interestingly, the Russell 2000 Small Cap Index had a record high, with a gain of 3.76. 

 The Wilshire 5000 down 122 points. 

 The bond market had it moderately lower today, mostly in reaction to Fed Chief Greenspan`s speech, with traders believing more interest rate increases are in the pipeline. A jump in New York oil futures about $32 per barrel was another factor which sent tax-free and corporate issues to closing losses on the average of an 1/8 point and the Treasury market to modest losses across-the-board as well. 

 The 5-year notes down 2/32. 

 The 10-year note down 7/32. 

 The Bellwether 30-year down 9/32 with the yield at 6.14 percent. 

 And the Lehman Brothers Long-Term Treasury Bond Index fell 3.16 points. 

 I`ll be back shortly to show you where the action was on Wall Street today. Susie? 

 GHARIB: Paul, the stock of Advance Micro Devices (AMD) jumped more than 14 percent today after winning the race to unveil a blazingly fast one gigahertz microprocessor. AMD expects strong demand for the chips. Gateway and Compaq will offer them on their machines. For now, though, one gigahertz chips are available in limited quantities. AMD hopes to reach large production volumes in the second and third quarters of the year. Meanwhile, Intel (INTC) is expected to start offering Pentium III chips with one gigahertz speed on Wednesday. 

 KANGAS: The price is finally right for a takeover of Mirage Resorts (MIR) by MGM Grand (MGG). The company said today the deal will carry a $4.4 billion price tag. That`s $21 for each share of Mirage, up $4 from MGM`s initial $17 bid. The merger combines the most flamboyant properties in the gambling industry, including Mirage`s $1.5 billion Bellagio Resort and MGM grand`s 5,000 room hotel and casino, the largest in America. 

 GHARIB: Insurance giant Lloyd`s of London is fighting for its future. The company began defending itself today against a British lawsuit accusing it of massive fraud. Hundreds of Lloyd`s investors, known as names, claim the 

 company conned them out of millions to pay for catastrophic losses. Dominic Waghorn reports. 

 DOMINIC WAGHORN, NBR, LONDON: After building a fortune in electronics and property, in the late `80s, Julian Lloyd was settling down to a well earned retirement. Then the letters from Lloyd`s began. 

 JULIAN LLOYD, INVESTOR: This is one where they demanded 407,000 pounds from me. 

 WAGHORN: And the demands kept on coming. The coincidentally named Lloyd had joined Lloyd`s of London as in investor or name, as they`re called in 1980. By the end of the decade thousands of names were having to pay out millions to cover huge losses being made by Lloyd`s. 

 LLOYD: It was building up, you see. That was the frightening thing. I had had this little bit which I had lost and heard about in `88 and then another lot which I had heard about in `91 and it was getting worse each year. And although I was a fairly wealthy man, I mean, it looked like we were losing millions. 

 WAGHORN: Observers like writer Godfrey Hodgson say most of Lloyd`s misfortunes were caused by it under estimating the risk of insuring U.S. firms against asbestosis claims. 

 GODFREY HODGSON, AUTHOR: It became clear that in particular asbestosis meant that there were going to be hundreds of millions, billions of dollars in claims and that they were already on their way, so to speak, that people have already got the disease. 

 WAGHORN: The names bringing this legal action say a massive drive was launched in the `80s by Lloyd`s headquarters here in London to gather in thousands of new recruits from around the world. They say Lloyd`s insiders new about those looming catastrophic asbestos losses but never told any of the new investors that they would be used to pay for them. Lloyd`s losses in the 80`s totaled $30 billion, wiping out many names in Europe and the United states. Since then Lloyd`s has restructured itself and increased its corporate financial backing. It retains a pivotal role in the industry, insuring nine of the world`s top 10 airlines and two thirds of companies in the Fortune Global 500. But observers say much still hangs on the outcome of the fraud trial. 

 LLOYD: If Lloyd`s loses then I think we are looking at the beginning of the end. I think it will shrivel to a rather small and highly specialized and possibly largely irrelevant institution, certainly not one which anybody would present as being one of the sort of shining heights of the city of London. 

 WAGHORN: U.S. attorneys in several states including New York are also investigating Lloyd`s. When the London trial is over a pivotal civil action is due to begin in Los Angeles this fall. Dominic Waghorn, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, London. 

 GHARIB: As you`ve just seen, oil prices pushed higher by almost $0.70 today and they`re expected to go even higher and hit consumers where it hurts, at the gas pump. The Energy Department said today that Americans could be paying $1.80 a gallon for gasoline during the peak summer driving season. The agency predicts sharply higher prices even if OPEC agrees to pump more oil at its big meeting on March 27th. And, Paul, the average price per gallon nationwide is $1.50 as of this week. 

 KANGAS: I`ve been going to an above average station, obviously, but it was a below average day on Wall Street, no question about that, at least for the bulls, down 196.70, nearly wiping out Friday`s 202 point gain. For every 11 stocks up, 19 down. A hundred and nineteen new highs for the year, though, 156 new lows. 

 Compaq Computer (CPQ) topped the active list on 20.3 million shares, edging an 1/8 higher. This company, Compaq, introduced its new computer, which has Advanced Microdevices` one gigahertz chip. 

 Lucent Technologies (LU) up 2 1/2, doing well. 

 America Online (AOL) down 1 1/16. 

 Qwest Communications (Q) dropping 7 1/16. The company confirmed it`s in merger talks with a major telecom firm. It wouldn`t say who. Some say it might be Deutsche Telekom (DT). But in any event, says  U.S. West, its erstwhile merger partner, would be included in any deal or would have to give its consent to a deal. 

 Bristol Myers (BMY) down 4 5/16. Salomon Smith Barney downgraded the stock from "buy" to  "outperform." 

 Tyco International (TYC) edged up 1/8. 

 Philip Morris (MO) down 7/16. 

 AT&T (T) losing 1 1/8. 

 And U. S. West (USW) itself lost just an 1/8 today. 

 And the big loser of the day, Williams Sonoma (WSM) plunging almost 12 points. The story here, the company sees lower than expected fourth quarter earnings in the range of $0.81 to $0.82. The Street was looking for $0.94 a share. Advest (ADV) and Standard & Poor`s both downgraded the stock. 

 Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) up 5 1/2. You heard about it. The first chip maker to begin shipping a one gigahertz processor beat Intel (INTC) to the punch. 

 Clear Channel (CCU) down 4 3/8. Well, first of all, Barings had an article that says the future of the company is not so clear and the company also plans to divest 72 stations pending its merger with AMFM. 

 First Data Corp. (FDC) up 2 1/4 after Goldman Sachs repeated a "buy." 

 Hewlett-Packard (HWP) rising 7 1/8. Merrill Lynch repeated a "buy" there and of course the company`s spin-off, Agilent (A), had a very good day. We`ll see that in just a moment. 

 ICN Pharmaceuticals (ICN) rose 2 1/4. Hambrecht & Quist Brokerage issued a "buy" recommendation there. 

 IBM (IBM) down nearly 6 points. It was the biggest point loser in the Dow Industrial Average today. 

 Agilent Technologies (A) up 42 9/16 after announcing a switching breakthrough that allows data to be switched as optical signals without converting from photons to electrons. 

 Nycomed Amersham (NYE) up 11 1/4 points. This stock helped today by speculation that it may become a component of the Futsi 100 Index on the London Stock Exchange. 

 Mirage Resorts Inc. (MIR), as you heard, has accepted the sweetened $21 a share buyout bid by MGM Grand (MGG), up 2 5/8. 

 Safety Kleen (SK) the big percentage loser, down 1 9/16. The company has begun a probe of accounting irregularities and three of its top executives are on administrative leave. Not good news there. 

 Edison International (EIX) plunging 7 11/16. The company lowered its own earnings projections for fiscal 2000 from $2.20 down to $1.90 and Merrill Lynch downgraded it from "accumulate" to "near term neutral." 

 And did the same thing with another energy company, Entergy (ETR),which fell 3 5/8. 

 NASDAQ trading, a loss of nearly 10 points in the Index. Trading volume down 121 million shares from Friday. About 20 stocks up for every 21 down. 

 Microsoft (MSFT) topped the active list, down 5 1/2. But JDS Uniphase (JDSU) up 13 and a fraction. 

 Internet Capital (ICGE), one of those incubator companies, up 23 3/16. 

 3Com (COMS) down 13 1/2. Its Palm Pilot IPO of last week dropped 17 points today and of course 3Com still owns 94 percent of Palm. 

 Cisco Systems (CSCO) down 1 5/16. 

 Then Yahoo! (YHOO) up 13 9/16, a real mixture here. 

 A half point rise in Dell Computer (DELL). 

 Oracle (ORCL) was up 3/4. Intel (INTC) down 1 7/8. 

 And CMGI (CMGI) rose almost 13 points, 10th in volume. 

 UltraData Systems (ULTR) up 11 1/8. The company will be supplying the database for Lucent`s new motor club called Drivethree.com. 

 And NeoRx (NERX) up 32 15/16. The company`s cancer treatment called Pre-Target is showing promising laboratory results. 

 And Flir Systems (FLIR) plunging 7 1/8. The company sees fourth quarter 

 earnings way below expectations, maybe even have a loss. The company notes that it may have some accounting irregularities and its CFO resigned. Not a good combination at all. 

 The American Exchange Index for the fourth consecutive session at a record high. 

 Photoelectron (PHX) did well, up 1 5/8. The company launched its new Internet information services for doctors and patients. 

 And Britesmile (BWT), the big percentage loser of the day, down 2 3/8. No spokesman available and no news on the wires for that one. And finally the Index Shares closed on a mixed note with the only gainers the NASDAQ Qs, which managed to advance a 1 5/8. 

 KANGAS: Investors have been running up the stocks of biotech companies in recent weeks and to give us background on what all the excitement is about is Val Brickates, biotechnology correspondent for BridgeNews. And welcome, Val. 

 VAL BRICKATES, BIOTECH CORRESPONDENT, BRIDGENEWS: Hi, how are you, Paul? KANGAS: Just fine, thanks. Some of the most high flying biotech stocks are involved in the field of genomics. Please give us a brief definition of what genomics is and what makes it so exciting. 

 BRICKATES: Genomics is basically about under understanding gene mapping. It`s about understanding genes of the human body, how they work, how they work with one another, what makes them function, what makes them malfunction 

 because when they malfunction that gives rise to most of the diseases we have. 

 KANGAS: Can these companies that are developing in this field make money doing this? 

 BRICKATES: In the long-term yes, probably. I mean a lot of this is very 

 experimental. It`s in the early stages. But seven years out, sure. A number of them probably will make money and substantial amounts of it. It`s just in the near-term investors might want to possibly be less speculative. 

 KANGAS: Who is bidding up these stocks? 

 BRICKATES: All sorts of folks. Most recently private investors have been getting into the game. Apparently biotech sector mutual funds are really hot right now. The mutual fund managers are getting call upon call for people that want to join in. But also traditional money that went in like pharmaceutical stocks and tech stocks, they`re taking a second look at biotech. They see it as the wave of the future and they see it as opposed to some Net stocks an industry where products will be delivered, although maybe not several years from now. 

 KANGAS: But some of these products from genomics can actually cure diseases? 

 BRICKATES: Yes, some of the ones that they are researching. It looks like we could have a cure for many cancers right around the corner. Again, not for a few years off but that`s the sort of research that they think that genomics will be able to hold for. 

 KANGAS: So a lot of people are just jockeying for position to try to get those companies that are going to be successful? 

 BRICKATES: I think there`s two things going on. I think there`s folks who are doing the usual sort of day trader approach to this. 

 KANGAS: Yes. 

 BRICKATES: And then there is also folks that are in it for the long haul and my advice would be to be in it for the long haul. 

 KANGAS: OK. 

 BRICKATES: Pick a company that you like and stay with it. 

 KANGAS: That`s good advice, Val. Thanks very much for being with us. 

 BRICKATES: You`re welcome. 

 KANGAS: My guest Val Brickates, biotechnology correspondent for BridgeNews. 

 GHARIB: Tomorrow, a look at the one of the top performing general equity mutual funds so far this year. 

 GHARIB: Iridium has one more chance to pull itself out of bankruptcy. Today a U.S. bankruptcy court gave the multibillion dollar satellite phone operator 11 more days to find bankers. Iridium also secured $3 million in loans to keep it operating until March 15th. It has to find backers or a buyer by then. Trading in Iridium`s stock was suspended when the company filed for bankruptcy. 

 KANGAS: Striking workers at Boeing (BA) insist the company`s latest offer just won`t fly. Today the aerospace giant told striking engineers and technicians those who crossed the picket line and returned to work would get pay raises. But union leaders call the offer "insulting" and claim it`s the same package workers already rejected three times. Boeing shares fell almost a point to close at 35 1/8. 

 GHARIB: Just 42 more days until you have to pay Uncle Sam your 1999 federal income taxes. So tonight we`re beginning our annual series of weekly tax tips reports to help make your taxes a little less, well, taxing. Tonight, if you`re married, should you file jointly or alone? Here`s Kevin McCormally, executive editor of "Kiplinger`s Personal Finance" magazine. KEVIN MCCORMALLY, KIPLINGER`S PERSONAL FINANCE MAGAZINE: The hottest tax issue in Washington this spring is the marriage tax penalty. The House has already OK`ed legislation promising relief and the Senate may well go along before the first June bride walks down the aisle. Of course, that won`t help you on the tax return you face right now. All this talk about the financial suffering of couples who file joint returns might make you wonder if you can dodge the penalty on your 1999 forms by choosing the married filing separately status. Well, don`t bet on it. Although you have the right not to file with your husband or wife, exercising it will probably cost you money. Sure, you may pay more on a joint return than you would if you were both still single, but except in the rarest of cases you`ll pay even more tax if you choose separate returns. 

 The tax rates for married folks who file separately are even higher than those for single taxpayers. Filing separately can also mean forfeiting tax breaks available only on joint returns. You can figure your tax both ways and use the one that results in the smaller bill. But before you worry too much about the marriage penalty you ought to make sure whether you are really a victim. The truth is more couples pay less tax on a joint return than they would if they had not tied the knot. We`ve developed an easy to use calculator to tell you whether marriage is a plus or a minus for your 1040. Check it out by visiting the NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT Web site, www.nbr.com and clicking on the link to the Kiplinger calculator. And if you discover you are getting a bonus, don`t worry that the legislation in Congress will take it away. In fact, it would make it even sweeter. I`m Kevin McCormally. 

 KANGAS: Recapping today`s market action, losses all around. The Dow fell 196 points. The NASDAQ Index closed down almost 10 points. And please join us at our World Wide Web site, NBR.com, or on America Online, keyword: NBR. 

 GHARIB: And that`s NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT for Monday, March 6th. We want to remind you this is the time of year your public television station seeks viewer support. 

 KANGAS: Support that makes programs like NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT possible. 

 GHARIB: So thanks for joining us. I`m Susie Gharib. Good night, everyone. And you too, Paul. 

 KANGAS: Good night, Susie. I`m Paul Kangas, wishing all of you the best of good buys. 

 Nightly Business Report transcripts are available on-line post-broadcast. The program is transcribed by FDCH. Updates may be posted at a later date. 

 The views of our guests and commentators are their own and do not necessarily represent the views of Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. Nightly Business Report, or WPBT. 

 Information presented on Nightly Business Report is not and should not be considered as investment advice. 

 c2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. 

 END 

 TO PURCHASE A VIDEOTAPE OF THIS PIECE, PLEASE CALL  888-266-3601 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc.  Formatting and transcription copyright 2000 eMediaMillWorks, Inc.  (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No quotes from the materials contained herein may be used in any media without attribution to Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. This transcript may not be copied or resold in any media. 

Document nbr0000020010808dw360001a
 

 First Security Warning Spurs a Sell-Off 

 STEVEN OBERBECK and GUY BOULTON 
869 words
4 March 2000
The Salt Lake Tribune
SLTR
A1
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 First Security Corp. lost more than one-third of its market value Friday -- or nearly $1.7 billion -- after it said its year is off to a rocky start. 

 The bad news hit Zions Bancorp, its prospective partner, nearly as hard. Zions shares lost $1 billion in value, or 25 percent, as investors questioned its future partner's prospects. 

 The two banks' stockholders lost the equivalent of nearly $1,300 for every Utahn. 

 The sell-off was spurred by First Security's warning that its first-quarter earnings could fall as much as 27 percent from the previous quarter. It blamed the drop on rising interest rates that hurt profit margins and lower demand for home mortgages. 

 The announcement came only weeks before First Security and Zions stockholders are scheduled to vote on the two banks' proposed merger. The combination, announced in June, is billed as a merger of equals but is widely viewed on Wall Street as an acquisition by Zions. 

 "Here is a good indication of why First Security had to sell out," said Jennifer Thompson, an analyst at Warburg Dillon Read LLC. "It was a decent franchise that was poorly run." 

 First Security's announcement made for an ugly day for shareholders of both companies. 

 Zions stock traded as low at $32 a share Friday before closing at $38.81, down $12.63. That's nearly 50 percent below its 52-week high of $75.88 a share. 

 The damage was even worse for First Security. Its shares fell $8.53 to $13.97, a 38 percent decline. Since late December, the stock has dropped 55 percent. 

 Neither First Security nor Zions returned phone calls on Friday. 

 In a statement, Harris Simmons, Zions chairman and chief executive, said the bank remains committed to the merger. 

 That apparently angered some investors. 

 Earlier in the day, Zions endured a heated conference call with analysts and large institutional investors dismayed by the abrupt turn in First Security's fortunes. 

 "There were a lot of nasty comments," said Tom Burnett, president of Merger Insight. He speculated some large stockholders may vote against the proposed merger. 

 Under the proposed agreement, First Security stockholders will receive .44 shares of stock in the combined company while Zions stockholders will receive one share. The structure effectively pegs the price of First Security stock to Zions stock. 

 But, as Zions stockholders painfully learned Friday, the two companies already are viewed as one by Wall Street. Zions stock plummeted Friday solely because of First Security's problems. 

 The drop in Zions stock means the premium First Security stockholders were to receive for their shares has vanished. 

 First Security stockholders were to receive stock in the merged company valued at about $26 for each share of First Security stock when the deal was announced. Based on Friday's prices, they now would receive stock worth around $17 a share. 

 First Security's profit warning is the second major snag for the proposed merger. 

 Late last year, the two banks delayed their combination after the Securities and Exchange Commission ordered Zions to restate earnings going back to 1996 to adjust for a change in the way it accounted for past acquisitions. 

 Then came Friday's warning from First Security. 

 The announcement is not the first time First Security has frustrated investors. When the proposed merger was announced, First Security stock had languished for more than a year. 

 First Security is one of the largest banks in a fast-growing region and owns a good mix of businesses, said Thompson of Warburg Dillon Read. 

 Yet it has a habit of periodically stumbling. 

 "Consistency has evaded them," she said. 

 Nonetheless, she remains confident the merger of Zions and First Security will lead to greater profits. Zions, Thompson said, "basically will put First Security's house in order." 

 She also does not expect additional surprises. 

 "It would be idiotic to wait until the deal is done to bring more skeletons out of the closet," Tho- mpson said. The merged company might have been open to shareholder lawsuits if First Security had not warned investors of its problems. 

 Rising interest rates have hurt profit margins at some -- although not all -- banks. But vulnerability to rising interest rates has been a long-running issue with First Security, said Jay Tejera, an analyst with Ragan MacKenzie Inc. in Seattle. 

 The bank's earnings also were hurt in 1994 when interest rates rose. 

 Zions, unlike its future partner, has less exposure to rising interest rates. 

 "They have a different business mix and they are a better managed bank," Tejera said. 

 Zions -- though now a bit tainted -- has long been considered one of the country's best regional banks. And Tejera, too, thinks the merger will prove profitable for stockholders. 

 "The question is whether Zions will recover its stock premium," Tejera said, "and that is not an insignificant issue." 

 Zions has used its high-priced stock as currency to buy other banks on the cheap. That is partly what has fueled its growth in recent years. It no longer has that option. Its lower stock price will increase the cost of doing future deals. 

Document sltr000020010813dw340081x
 

 Business 
 Palm, Incorporated - CEO Interview on Nightly Business Report 

 Paul Kangas, Susie Gharib 
4,514 words
2 March 2000
23:30
Nightly Business Report
NBR
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 SUSIE GHARIB: Reading smoke signals from the tobacco industry. A Philip Morris executive makes some startling admissions that could change the industry forever. Good evening, everyone. I`m Susie Gharib in New York City. 

 JEFF YASTINE: And I`m Jeff Yastine in Miami. Paul Kangas is off tonight. Palm Pilot`s IPO takes off on the NASDAQ, but the Composite Index closes down anyway. The NASDAQ losing 29 points. The Dow gained about 27. Then, meet a guy behind the Internet search engine, Google. He says when you seek, eventually he`ll find profits. 

 YASTINE: Good evening everyone. Problems are continuing to mount tonight for big tobacco. The Canadian province of Ontario is now suing the industry to recover the cost of treating sick smokers. And there is fighting within the industry itself. Liggett Tobacco is suing RJR Reynolds (RJR) claiming antitrust violations over product pricing. Against this backdrop, at a California conference on addiction today, a Philip Morris executive publicly acknowledged the company is willing to recognize that nicotine in cigarettes is a drug and that cigarettes should be regulated by the FDA. Stephanie Woods reports. 

 DAVID KESSLER, FORMER FDA COMMISSIONER: Is nicotine a drug? 

 STEVEN PARRISH, SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT OF CORPORATE AFFAIRS, PHILLIP MORRIS: I believe that nicotine is a drug. I do not believe, though, that merely because nicotine is a drug that that means it should be regulated as a pharmaceutical or as a medical device under the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. 

 STEPHANIE WOODS, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: It was a dramatic tobacco face off. On one hand the man who first pushed for Food & Drug Administration regulation of cigarettes, on the other, a top executive of tobacco giant Philip Morris. The Morris VP, Steve Parrish came with a peace offering, saying his company is now willing to submit to FDA regulation. 

 PARRISH: There needs to be a serious discussion by a lot of people, members of Congress, people in this room, other members of the public health community about what is the right way to regulate tobacco. 

 WOODS: That was too vague for Former FDA Commissioner David Kessler, who pushed further. 

 KESSLER: Are you willing to accept meaningful and real FDA regulation? 

 PARRISH: Yes. 

 WOODS: But Kessler, and many in the public health community are skeptical. One reason is that the tobacco industry is fighting FDA regulation all the way to the Supreme Court, with a ruling expected in June. Kessler says the proof of the industry`s intent will be in the details. KESSLER: Did I have serious questions, and as Steve will know, everybody is wondering whether they can believe you. 

 WOODS: Analysts say the industry is softening its stance to gain support among juries, lawmakers, and regulators. Schwab Washington Research Analyst Mark McMinimy says by accepting regulation the industry may soften the blow of big punitive damages. 

 MARK MCMINIMY, ANALYST, SCHWAB WASHINGTON RESEARCH: The industry is in a box. They`ve been put in the public relations penalty box. They`re also in the legal penalty box at the moment, and they`ve got to find a way out of that box, and I think this is part of the solution. 

 WOODS: Andy legislative solution is likely years away. In the meantime, the tobacco wars will keep burning, not just in Congress and the courts. Stephanie Woods, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, Washington. 

 GHARIB: On Wall Street, the two big stories were oil, and Palm. Oil prices were active again today, and that Palm IPO was red hot. And we`ll have details on that in just a moment. Otherwise, investors held back from making any big moves in stocks until they see tomorrow`s jobs report. Stocks traded higher at the open: the Dow shot up 47 and the NASDAQ by 28. Big gains in the stocks of IBM, SBC Communications and AT&T helped the Dow today. But after a fast start, blue chips pulled back and the NASDAQ turned negative. By mid-morning the market bounced back and stocks traded in a comfort zone right up to the noon hour. During the lunch hour the markets turned negative: worries about higher interest rates flared up again. Throughout the afternoon stocks continued to struggle. Traders said there was little enthusiasm for buying. The Dow still managed to crawl back into positive territory, but not the NASDAQ, which was hurt by selling in semiconductor stocks, and also a pullback of some other technology stocks. In the last hour of trading, the Dow continued to improve, but the NASDAQ couldn`t pull out of its slump. By the closing bell, the Dow was up about 27 points to 10165. In today`s 109 point range the Dow closed Down 47 points from the best level of the day, but the NASDAQ broke its winning streak, down 29.5 to 4754. 

 Big board volume today: 1.2 billion shares. That is down from yesterday. 

 Transports Index lost 44 points on worries about the impact of higher oil prices on the airlines. Utilities rose a fraction. 

 And the Closing Tick a bearish reading of -406. 

 Looking at the broader markets, the Standard & Poor`s 500 added 2 1/2. 

 The S&P 100 up more than 6. 

 But the MidCap 400 lost about 3. 

 And CRB Bridge Futures Price Index just about flat. 

 The New York Stock Exchange Composite Index up more than 2. 

 The Value Line down 1 1/2. 

 But the Russell2000 Small Cap backed off from its record, losing 4 points today. 

 And the Wilshire 5000 down 3/4. 

 After the market closed the Federal Reserve reported in the week ending February 21 that the M-2 money supply rose $4.7 billion. In the bond market, prices were weaker, but traders were looking past today`s generally bullish economic reports and getting ready for tomorrow`s key employment report. As for today, though, home sales fell more than 4 percent, bigger than expected. And the index of leading economic indicators rose 3/10 of a percent in January to a new high, an indication that the economy is still very strong. 

 Running down today`s bond prices, the 5-year notes fell a tick. 

 The 10-year notes rose by a tick. 

 And the Bellwether 30-year bond dropping 7/32, pushing the yield up to 6.13 percent. 

 And the Lehman Brothers Long-Term Treasury Bond Index slipped .18. 

 In a few minutes we`ll take a look at some stocks making news today. Jeff. 

 YASTINE: Well, Susie, as you mentioned, oil prices were pretty volatile today, finally closing down a bit. That`s because there`s still no concrete answer tonight about where OPEC oil production is headed. Oil ministers of Mexico, Venezuela and Saudi Arabia met in London. They agree more oil is needed to ease high prices, but they haven`t decided just how much more. They`ll have until March 27th when OPEC meets in Vienna to finalize output levels. Analysts say OPEC nations are afraid opening oil taps too much will send prices crashing, destroying their revenues. 

 GHARIB: Americans apparently don`t spend as much money shopping online than a lot of people thought. The Commerce Department came out today with its first ever e-retail report and it says consumers clicked only $5.3 billion in sales in the fourth quarter, which includes the busy holiday season. Some analysts were predicting online sales as high as $13 billion, but the Commerce Department surveyed 8,800 retailers and says its results have a wider scope than private sector reports and are scientifically based. Commerce Secretary William Daley says investors and businesses need accurate online statistics. 

 WILLIAM DALEY, U.S. SECRETARY OF COMMERCE: Obviously as a percentage of all retail sales, it was small 0.64 percent. But e-tailing has come of age. Its impact of what consumers know about, what they can buy or what they should pay goes far beyond today`s percentage. 

 GHARIB: Meanwhile, America`s bricks and mortar retailers had a good February. Sales at Wal-Mart (WMT), Sears (S) and Target (TGT) were all up, but J.C. Penney (JCP) had a down month. Analysts say that consumers ignored rising oil prices, a factor that sometimes prevents them from shopping in the stores. 

 YASTINE: As we`ve said, a lot of euphoria for that Palm IPO today. The new spin off from 3Com closed at 95 1/16. That`s up more than 57 points from its offering price. The stock traded as high as $165. Scott Gurvey talked with Palm`s CEO Carl Yankowski, asking him what he thought of Wall Street`s reaction to Palm. 

 CARL YANKOWSKI, CEO, PALM INCORPORATED: It`s extremely gratifying to see such great demand and we are pleased to have such a good constituency and following. 

 SCOTT GURVEY, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: What`s the timing now on the rest of the spin off? At what point in the year do you think that 3Com will completely spin off the company? 

 YANKOWSKI: I think we want to trade about two quarters so in about six months we should be seeing a spin off subject to board approval from 3Com. 

 GURVEY: All right, now tell me a little something with about the market for these hand held devices. Your company has had a tremendous success where a lot of other people have not. What is the secret? YANKOWSKI: I think the real secret is that for us less is more. We focus on customer and ease of use, simplicity, elegance in our design. So everything is focused around a solution. For our competition, I think their philosophy is that more is less as they try to jam an entire P.C. into a small box. 

 GURVEY: Now, you`ve also licensed your operating system so we`re going to begin seeing some things that are similar coming from other companies like a Handspring and also we`re going to see them on some of the cellular devices and telephones, aren`t we? 

 YANKOWSKI: That`s exactly right. We think that a rising tide is lifting all boats right now. The market is growing so quickly we can be a device leader and an application leader in our own right and we can also license the people in adjunct spaces in Handspring and we can both win. 

 GURVEY: Do you have any idea, when all is said and done, what part of your revenue will come from licensing as opposed to the direct sales of your own products? 

 YANKOWSKI: Well, I can`t make a forward looking statements yet because we`re still in the quiet period due to the separation of 3Com, but it will be increasing over time. 

 GURVEY: Now, you`ve put out a few, a really big handful of new models just in the last quarter or so. Can you tell us what the marketplace is demanding? What kinds of products will we be seeing? 

 YANKOWSKI: Well, what we`re seeing is a real demand for thin and wearable products. Obviously we`re seeing a demand for products that have long battery life so you don`t have to change the batteries often. We`re also seeing a demand for color and we`ve waited some time until we could get a good color screen with a long battery life which we achieved just this past week with the introduction of the Palm 3C and that`s being very well received. 

 GURVEY: How about the wireless products? I think both the Model 7 and the model 5 have wireless capability. Correct? 

 YANKOWSKI: Well, that`s right. The 7 is doing very, very well. We have over a hundred thousand users now tied into the Internet. I use my own for Map Quest and for stock portfolio trading. I can find my local Starbucks (SBUX) or local ATM. And the Palm 5 is coming out of beta tests with Omni Sky in the United States tied into AT&T`s CDPD and it will be wireless as well. And then it`s going to go to Europe in the second half of this year wirelessly and the Palm 7 will be going to Japan. 

 GURVEY: You certainly, then, see the day when we`re all going to be carrying one of these things around? 

 YANKOWSKI: I hope so. 

 GURVEY: Well, thank you very much for joining us today and good luck to you. Carl Yankowski, the CEO of Palm, Inc. 

 GHARIB: Blue chips flip flopped all day but finally finished on the positive side, up about 27 points to 10,165. Decliners outpaced advancers by a margin of 8 to 6. As for highs and lows, 105 versus 171. 

 Lucent (LU) led the most active today. It rose another 4 points on top of that 8 point run yesterday when it announced plans to spin off three businesses. 

 Compaq (CPQ) up a half. 

 AT&T (T) ringing off the hook today, up more than 6 or almost 14 percent. Goldman has the stock on its "recommended" list. Another possible factor behind the run-up, anticipation for AT&T`s wireless tracking stock, which is set for April. 

 Qwest (Q) slipped a 1/4. And U.S. West (USW) lost 10 7/16. No confirmation yet on whether Deutsche Telecom has made a buyout offer for QWest or U.S. West, both of which are merging. 

 SBC Communications (SBC) rose more than 3. Analysts are talking up the synergies of a Bell South/SBC joint venture that could, if it`s created, be a tough competitor in the wireless arena. 

 America Online (AOL) fell 13/16. 

 Wal-Mart (WMT) climbed 2 1/8 on those stronger than expected retail sales that we told you about. Also, Morgan Stanley issued a "strong buy." 

 Tyco (TYC) lost 1 1/16. 

 And Philip Morris (MO) fell 3/8. 

 Among the widelies, Aetna (AET) rose 2 11/16. The company says it`s considering a $10 billion offer from Wellpoint Health Networks (WLP) and ING America Insurance. 

 France Telecom (FTE) gained 27 points on euphoria that it, too, would take a portion of its Internet multi-media unit public. It also reported healthy profits for 1999 and, by the way, the Paris stock market, the Cach 40, hit a new high today. 

 Deere (DE) down 2 7/16. According to CIBC World Market, Deere, like other farm equipment companies, have been in a slump because of weak commodity prices. 

 IBM (IBM) advanced more than 3 points. 

 Scientific Atlanta (SFA) surged 16 1/4. ABM Amro raised its price target to $150 a share. 

 And Unisys (UIS) dropped 5/8 after Goldman removed the stock from it`s "recommended" list. 

 Among the big movers, Health Management (HMA) rose 2 3/16 thanks to a "buy" recommendation from Merrill Lynch. 

 And Enterprise Oil (ETP) gushed 2 9/16 on record `99 profits versus a loss the year before. 

 Thermo Electron (TMO) rising 2 7/8. A spokesman says investors are now benefiting from the company`s recent restructuring. 

 On the down side, though, Barrett Resources (BRR) lost 6 and that was after posting lower than expected fourth quarter earnings of $0.14 a share, which was $0.08 below Street estimates. 

 And Covance (CVD) lost 2 3/8 after Warburg Dillon Reed voiced concerns about softness at the company`s clinical business and also cut its first quarter estimates. 

 Silverleaf (SVR) fell 1 3/16 on disappointing fourth quarter results and a profit warning for the first quarter. 

 Over on the NASDAQ, it backtracked today despite a promising open this morning, down 29 to 4,754. 

 Today`s volume ranks number two behind yesterday`s record pace. There were 203 more stocks down than up. 

 3Com (COMS) fell 22 5/16. 

 Microsoft (MSFT) rose 2 9/16. Palm, Inc. (PALM), here are those closing numbers on that big IPO that we`ve been telling you about, up 57 points. The stock opened at 150, traded as high as 165 before losing ground. 

 Dell (DELL) rose about 2 points. 

 And JDS Uniphase (JDSU) fell 7 7/8. 

 Intel (INTC) slipped a fraction. 

 Cisco Systems (CSCO) rose a 1 point. 

 Oracle (ORCL) fell 3. 

 Global Crossing (GBLX) gained 3 7/16. Bloomberg reported that Deutsche Telekom (DT) might be in merger talks with Global Crossing (GLBX). 

 And CIENA (CIEN) ended down 19 1/2. 

 As for the big movers, in the plus column, Gensym (GNSM) soared 11 1/2 on news that Nokia (NOK) will sell its software under the Nokia brand. 

 MP3.com (MPPP) climbed 15 5/8. Its CEO doesn`t expect this year`s revenues to be impacted by its legal battle with the Recording Industry Association. 

 And TLC Laser Eye Centers (TLCV) fell 4 9/16. The company confirmed it doesn`t expect to report a loss in the third and fourth quarters. 

 On the AMEX, the Composite scored another record, up 1 1/2 points. 

 CEL-SCI (CVM) jumped 1 7/8 on news that it has identified a compound that has potential use for an HIV vaccine. 

 And Moore Medical (MMD) up 2 1/8. It`s received a $1 million investment from Vantage Venture Partners. 

 And as for the Index Shares, the Diamonds and Spiders were fractionally higher. 

 But the NASDAQ 100 Trust fell. 

 And those are some of the stocks that were making news today. Jeff? 

 YASTINE: Well, a search engine called Google mines the wealth of information on the World Wide Web. Its Co-Founder and President is Sergey Brin, a 26-year-old entrepreneur born in Russia. While working on their Ph.D.s in computer science at Stanford, he and another student developed Google in 1998. What sets it apart from other search engines? Patent pending technology that ranks search results in order of their importance. And Google`s been growing at a phenomenal rate, in part by offering its search engine to a number of big name corporate customers. In tonight`s prime movers, Donald Van de Mark of Myprimetime.com asks Brin how much Google will grow next month or next year. 

 SERGEY BRIN, CO-FOUNDER & PRESIDENT, GOOGLE, INCORPORATED: Well, I don`t know about next year. Next month we certainly would like to do 25 percent more than this month. The growth rate we have sustained basically as long as we`ve been around has been at least 25 percent every month. 

 DONALD VAN DE MARK, MYPRIME.COM: You received $25 million in your first round of fund raising, which is an astonishing amount. BRIN: It was at the time these days it is getting more common. 

 VAN DE MARK: Big players in the search engine business have moved on to become portals and offer a lot more in the way of services, even become media companies. Do you see yourself moving that way? 

 BRIN: Our focus has been search, and recent, for example, studies from Jupiter demonstrate that the number one used application on the World Wide Web is search and the reason for that is because search, compared to anything else you can do on the Internet, search is really revolutionary. Before if you wanted to find information on some obscure topic if you were lucky maybe you go down to a library, hunt through a lot of books, you know, take a few days to research it, maybe you get information you want. Now you type in whatever you`re interested in and seconds later you have your answer. 

 VAN DE MARK: So in a way you want to stick with search, it`s so important and valuable? 

 BRIN: We want to stick with finding information, let me put it more broadly. We`ve introduced things like Google Scout you see on our site. You can get most of the related pages. So any kind of techniques basically search where we`re returning valuable information to the user and letting them get to it more effectively, that`s what we`ll do. 

 VAN DE MARK: Are you going to go public or the next step financially, what would it be? 

 BRIN: Well, as I said, you know, right now we still have most of the $25 million round we raised. We`re starting to bring in significant amounts of revenue and we would really like to drive our company toward profitability or close to profitability so that we can be really building up our revenue base and eventually be very, very profitable. 

 VAN DE MARK: How far in the future is that? 

 BRIN: Being profitable? I think it`s within a couple of years. I don`t want to sort of set a post in the ground but I think it`s very achievable. 

 VAN DE MARK: You`re 26 years old now. How do you handle the stress of managing 85 people and growing a company like this and being the focus of so much media attention, everything that goes on in building a company? 

 BRIN: It`s an exciting field. You know, there`s a wealth of opportunity to really change the way, you know, people seek information, change their lives. And, you know, given so much opportunity it`s not quite as stressful as, I don`t know, if we were just, you know, a normal kind of company that was struggling to compete against other companies in a space that wasn`t really growing. I mean this is, the Internet is a world of opportunity. So I don`t think it`s quite as stressful. The thing is every day you can come in and do something really exciting and dramatic that will really boost your company forward and make users happy. 

 VAN DE MARK: Thank you very much for joining us. 

 BRIN: Sure. Thank you. 

 GHARIB: Tomorrow, our market monitor guest is Julius Maldutis, Managing Director of CIBC World Markets. 

 GHARIB: This is now week four of that strike at Boeing (BA) and it`s starting to hurt. Boeing says the strike has delayed almost a third of its commercial jet deliveries that were scheduled for last month. The company says it doesn`t know yet the financial impact of the walkout by about 18,000 engineers and technicians. As for the stock, it was down 3/8s today to 35 15/16. 

 YASTINE: President Clinton is recommending a labor law be changed to let more businesses give stock options to low level employees. More and more companies are trying to sweeten workers` salaries with stock options. But the problem is, a 1938 law requires some companies to pay higher overtime rates to hourly employees who get stock options. Congress is now looking at revising that law. 

 GHARIB: The job market is so tight these days that some experts are predicting that the unemployment rate could drop below 4 percent in tomorrow`s jobs report. That would be a 30 year record. Tonight`s commentator has some thoughts on labor and the economy. Here`s Louis Uchitelle, economics writer for the "New York Times." 

 LOUIS UCHITELLE, COMMENTARY: The booming economy has created the tightest labor market in a generation and wages are rising as employers bid for scarce workers. These wage increases should be getting bigger each year as unemployment falls but they aren`t. The numbers for 1999 show that wages adjusted for inflation rose by smaller percentages for most workers than in 1998. That is a puzzling breach of accepted economic theory and a surprise for Federal Reserve policy makers. The Fed is pushing up interest rates partly in the belief that accelerating wage increases are inflationary. Employers must raise prices to pay for their higher labor costs. But while wages rose by every larger percentage in 1997 and 1998, that did not happen last year. Economists are scrambling for explanations of the modest wage growth. Job insecurity is frequently mentioned. Fearful of layoffs, people are unwilling to push for big raises. There is also the explanation that employers are giving bonuses and stock options these days rather than raises. But even when these payments are taken into account, pay rose more slowly than year than in 1998. Despite these and other explanations, many economists insist that the old wage acceleration will soon reappear. Certainly the Federal Reserve thinks so and in anticipation is slowing the economy, trying to take the wind out of the boom, perhaps for the wrong reason. I`m Louis Uchitelle. 

 YASTINE: Recapping today`s market action, one up, one down. The Dow gaining almost 27 points, but the NASDAQ lost 29. And please join us at our World Wide Web site, NBR.com, or on America Online, keyword: NBR. 

 GHARIB: And finally tonight, it`s an American icon that now has a place in history in the Smithsonian Institution. It`s Silly Putty. The pink plastic plaything is 50 years old today. To celebrate its anniversary, a collection of Silly Putty items became a permanent part of the Smithsonian`s Museum of American History. And a new color of the stuff was rolled out-gold. And Jeff, here`s an interesting statistic. Over the past five decades, more than 300 million eggs of Silly Putty have been sold. I`ve bought a couple of those for my kids. 

 YASTINE: I`ve never gotten one. 

 GHARIB: You never have? 

 YASTINE: Never, ever. 

 GHARIB: Well, you know, today we tried to go buy the gold version and we just couldn`t find it in any of the stores. If we find it, I`m sending it to Miami. 

 YASTINE: OK. I need a free sample here. 

 GHARIB: OK. 

 YASTINE: That`s NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT for Thursday, March 2nd. I`m Jeff Yastine. Good night, everyone. Goodnight to you, Susie. 

 GHARIB: Good night, Jeff. I`m Susie Gharib. And we`ll see all of you again tomorrow night. 

 Nightly Business Report transcripts are available on-line post-broadcast. The program is transcribed by FDCH. Updates may be posted at a later date. 

 The views of our guests and commentators are their own and do not necessarily represent the views of Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. Nightly Business Report, or WPBT. 

 Information presented on Nightly Business Report is not and should not be considered as investment advice. 

 c2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. 

 END 

 TO PURCHASE A VIDEOTAPE OF THIS PIECE, PLEASE CALL  888-266-3601 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT.  THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc.   Formatting and transcription copyright 2000 eMediaMillWorks, Inc.   (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No quotes from the materials contained herein may be used in any media without attribution to Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc.  This transcript may not be copied or resold in any media. 

Document nbr0000020010808dw3200018
 

 High-tech leasing 

 Laura Otto 
2,278 words
1 March 2000
Journal of Property Management
JPMN
42-45
Volume 65, Issue 2; ISSN: 0022-3905
English
 Copyright (c) 2000 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved. Copyright Institute of Real Estate Management Mar/Apr 2000 

 New technology companies are starting up as fast as you can say T-1 line. Technology changes by the minute and young entrepreneurs, ready to be the next AOL, aren't wasting any time setting up shop. Though their business plan projections has them replacing Bill Gates on the Fortune 500 list, the reality is that their businesses change from month-to-month, week-to-week, even day-to-day. 

 Most of these start-ups would like to lease space on the basis of their prospects, move in within the week, and sign only a six-month lease. Welcome to the world of high-tech. Typically that clashes with the world of real estate-that is unless you're willing to change your philosophy. In this era of dot.com companies, taking a risk on a less than conventional tenant could become the high-speed connection to premium dollars. 

 Forget Traditional 

 High-tech tenants want less term and greater flexibility, says Mike Lipsey, CPM"', president of the Lipsey Company, a consultant group for commercial real estate owners. "They don't want a 10-year lease because they don't know if their company will be around in 24 months," Lipsey explains. "They want to try to find landlords that will provide them the flexibility to contract, relocate, and expand-and they will pay a premium to have that luxury. 

 But, landlords are used to the traditional tenant who will sign a five-to-ten year lease, take six months to negotiate the lease, and sign a 50-page document that covers everything under the sun. 

 "That's not the world of the high-tech tenant, says Lipsey. "The high-tech tenant wants to rent on Friday and be in the space on Monday. They don't have six months to negotiate, sometimes they don't have six days. So the one mind set the landlord needs to have is speed." 

 Being creative and thinking outside of the box carries with it a certain risk. "It's a high-risk, high-reward situation,"says Mez Birdie, CPM, of Commercial Net Lease. "Because a lot of business is done the traditional way, not everyone has jumped on board, but the companies that have are reaping the benefits. I think as this phenomenon grows and as people get more comfortable, this concept is only going to increase." 

 Taking the Risk 

 Luis Belmonte, managing director of AMB Property Corporation, San Francisco, took a risk about four years ago when he says, nobody knew how this technology business was about to explode. Originally planning on renting some retail space to a 7-11 or take-out pizza place in South of the Market San Francisco, Belmonte took a chance on an Internet service provider. 

 "That wasn't exactly what I put in my pro forma," remembers Belmonte. "Interestingly enough, I tried to get some advice because I didn't know an ISP from a hole in my head. Everyone told me not to do the deal because they thought the people would be wiped out in a heartbeat by the telephone company. I did it anyway, and all I've done is prosper since they've moved in. They're throwing money at my building, and I've doubled my rent. 

 It's All About Capital 

 But realizing that almost half of these start-up companies fail is a sobering statistic that might have property owners jumping back into the box. Approaching this deal is much like underwriting a loan. Like it or not, a landlord of a high-tech tenant becomes a venture capitalist because he or she is essentially investing capital in the tenant's business. For the privilege of doing this, you can charge a premium rent. There is a risk-reward factor and the more risk you take, the more reward you should get. 

 Belmonte, who now has about 40 start-up companies leasing space, has practice changing hats from landlord to banker and advises those taking the chance on a high-tech tenant to do some underwriting of the tenant's business plan or hiring someone who can. 

 "Typically a venture capitalist gets stuck with the downside if [the tenant] doesn't make it and a big piece of the upside if it does make it," says Belmonte. "Landlords end up being retard capitalists because they don't get a big piece of the upside but still take the risk. What you have to do is make sure you're going to get a piece of the upside and try to hedge your downside as best as you can." 

 Because these tenants have little history, you have to do a credit-check of a different kind. Their business plan, cash flow, and venture-capital backing can be analyzed, but in addition to assessing their track record, assess their prospects and other business experience. 

 So how does a landlord protect him-or herself against that risk should tough times hit a tenant with negative cash flow and not much of a balance sheet? This is when the landlord has to don the banker's hat and rate the tenant's chances to make it. Basically, the landlord needs some sort of security for the entire obligation whether that's a line of credit or a deposit in the bank. 

 Good solid credit underwriting is critical agrees Lipsey. "We need continuing guarantees from the founders, letters of credit, cross collateral ization, and liens on the furniture and computers," says Lipsey. "We are investing in these tenants, and we should think of it just as underwriting a loan. The same kind of careful underwriting that goes for putting a tenant in, should be an even more extraordinary effort if it's a high-tech tenant." 

 "If you're best judgment is that they're not going to make it, you have to operate under the assumption that they aren't," says Belmonte. "I'm getting a security deposit whether its cash, a letter of credit, or a pledge of assets that will put enough money in my hand to operate when the lease terminates. I take every expense that I think I am going to endure in the event they leave the space prior to the lease term and say, 'This is the amount of money I need to make myself whole, so if you want to lease my space, this is what you have to give me.' The fact is if they will give me a good rent and give me enough security to make me whole, I'm in the same place I am with any other tenant. 

 "The premium you can get will depend on what the market will bear@" continues Belmonte. "You should be able to get a 15 or 20 percent increase over what you would get from a truly worthy tenant. In some cases, it will be bigger, but in a real tight market in which you have vacant space staring at you, you may not get a premium but will be operating on the security deposit. In general though, if vacancy is 7 percent in the submarket in which you are operating, then you ought to get a 20 percent premium. They'll pay it simply because they've had a hard time renting space." 

 According to Dale Powell, president of the Irving Group, based in northern Virginia, which provides real estate services to high-tech corporations, because the market is extremely tight and vacancies are low, the leverage is definitely on the landlord's side. 

 "We're seeing rents increase rapidly because of how strong the market is and the lack of supply," says Powell. "So it's getting harder and harder for companies that don't have strong balance sheets to get transactions completed because the landlords have more tenants to choose from. But there is a danger out there for the landlords-because of the amount of space leased to high-tech companies, if there ever was a crisis in the capital markets, vacancies would go up rapidly. If the capital markets get tight for company financing, a lot of these companies can't live through the tough times." 

 The most important thing you can do is get as well educated about the business plan of the tenant as possible, contends Belmonte. "Understand what business they're in and who else is in that business. The ISP I have as a tenant is essentially different than when it first started. I deal with the company because it's actually making a profit when nobody else in the sector was. You have to follow-through with tenants in terms of their business plan and get some warning if they're having some problems or see if they're doing really well. If they're prosperous enough, maybe you can lease them more space or have them put more money on the deposit. You have to keep making trades with them." 

 Skimp on the Extras 

 Normally when you think of high-tech companies you begin to be concerned about fiber optics and bandwidth, but this isn't necessarily a concern for the start-ups. Though true of more established companies, start-up companies are more interested in spaces that cater to their work- and lifestyle needs. 

 "If you're talking to a company like AOL, their entire building is built on raised floors and moveable ceilings, but they have the balance sheet to do it," says Powell. "Start ups don't have that luxury, the biggest thing they might want is indirect lighting because of their computers. But what we are seeing are a lot of amenities that cater to the employee who is working 14-to-16 hours a day, six days a week. Companies are putting in a 'chill-out' room with foozball tables and gyms, and places where employees can go and cool out." 

 Amenities become important because of the tremendous hours most of these employees work, making the typical 9-to-5 office hours seem ridiculous. Providing a secure, 24-hour operation is consequential for many startup companies. Being close to restaurants and the night life can be equally important for these employees who have a habit of making their work their life. 

 "We get the multimedia types and people building web pages who move into old factories South of Market and in downtown Manhattan, and they bring in their dog and pet python, steep on the floor, and string stuff across the ceiling," says Belmonte. "One company has tiny cubicles that people decorate in their own fashion; no one wears a collared shirt, and they holler at each over the top of partitions that are made out of chicken wire. I would say the standard law-firm, private-office model is becoming progressively more obsolete. Mostly, open and flexible are two things that people are looking for, other than that; it's free form." 

 Loree Goffigon, vice president of Gensler, a global architecture, design, planning, and strategic consulting firm, says that given the nature of these high-tech companies, it's not about hard walls and private offices. 

 "It's about this kind of cool, edgy, irreverent casual," says Goffigon. "We are looking at more team clusters and team war rooms that can double as an office. We see space that is complete with just big comfy chairs and sofas with big white boards on wheels that you pull up; big kitchens that double as meeting rooms. There is a greater proliferation of huddle spaces that are about how people get together and talk about ideas. We see work stations in groups; I don't see this long sea of workstations that start to take on the form of neighborhoods." 

 Location-Does it Even Matter? 

 Just as their actual workspace-is non-traditional so to-is the place they choose to work in. The whole concept of technology screams the idea that communication and accessibility is capable from any corner of the world. So is there any particular area that is hot for high-tech? Every geographic area has its own Silicon Valley, where that area is depends on the likings of the individual. 

 "In a business that has a huge velocity and which is a knowledge business, the grapevine is very important," says Belmonte. "These people have a tendency to congregate next to each other in places they feel like being. If you're in the web-site building business or an ISP, you can go anywhere. There are no location considerations, so the bricks and sticks follow the minds and where the minds feel like being is where they're going. Because the people are more important than the companies, the companies follow the people, and the real estate then follows the company.,, 

 Will Supply Equal Demand? 

 If you have the right kind of space and the know how to back it up, taking the risk may truly bring you the reward. The high-tech market is hot for those willing to venture into the fire but how long it will last remains unanswered. 

 "There is a horrendous amount of venture capital flying around and a lot of action in the high-tech markets," says Belmonte. "But it is completely unclear how many of these people will survive and in what format they will evolve. Are they going to sell $3, $5, $12, or $20 billion on the Internet? Are they going to fulfill customer expectation? Are they going to have a good or bad experience? Nobody knows." 

 Laura Otto is the associate editor of the Journal of Property Management. 

Document jpmn000020010807dw310000y

Search Summary

 Text	((“profit*” same “warning*”) or ("disappoint*" same "result*") or ("decreas*" same "profit*") or ("compan*" same "downturn*") or ("unexpect*" same "loss*"))
 Date	03/01/2000 to 03/31/2000
 Source	All Sources
 Author	All Authors
 Company	All Companies
 Subject	 Not Corporate/Industrial News
 Industry	All Industries
 Region	United States
 Language	English
 Results Found	140
 Timestamp	28 March 2018 17:57

 Page 5 of 5     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

