 
•	  Tech Data Up Slightly In Late Trading After Upside 4Q >TECD 
•	 Newscast: Dow closes above 10,000 for the first time in history
•	 Newscast: Dow closes above 10,000 for the first time in history   
•	  Global Markets Decline Sharply for Second Day On Profit-Taking, Corporate Earnings Worries 
•	  Motorola Sees Faster-Than-Expected Turnaround For Semiconductors 
•	  Shares Of Disk-Drive Parts Maker Read-Rite Slump On Sour Outlook 
•	  Motorola Op Chief -3: On Track To Save $1 Bln A Year >MOT 
•	  Stocks Drop 218.68 as Earnings Pressure Builds 
•	  N.Y. Stocks: Blue Chips Are Mixed On Earnings Jitters 
•	  The Collective Wisdom of the Workforce: Conversations with Employees Regarding Performance Evaluation.(Brief Article) 
•	  Jitters mar march to 10,000. 
•	  America West and Union Continue Contract Talks 
•	  Nasdaq's Continued Battle With `Crossed' Or `Locked' Markets Frustrates Traders 
•	  Small-Cap Stocks -4: Novadigm, Osicom Shares Rally 
•	  Small-Cap Stocks -4: Novadigm, Osicom Shares Rally 
•	 Bulls look unbeatable in the race for 10,000
•	  Pilot Sickout to Affect American Airline's Growth 
•	  Ingram Micro Spares Memphis, Tenn.-Area as It Cuts 1,400 Jobs 
•	  Dow ends down, earnings concerns trip up 10,000 run. 
•	  Dow slips in late trading, stays below 10,000. 
•	  Dow goes negative after flirting with 10,000. 
•	  Dow ends down after nearing 10,000, dollar mixed. 
•	  N.Y. Stocks: Gains for Oil Stocks Lead Blue Chips Higher 
•	  West Virginia newspapers speak 
•	  U.S. Shares In London Mixed; Advanced Micro Down, Techs Up 
•	  =Repeat: DJ Market Talk: Trader Unwillingness ... 
•	  N.Y. Stocks: Tech Advance Fuels Stocks, DJIA At Highs 
•	 U.S. Stocks Surge To a Record HighJobs Data Ease Inflation Fears 
•	  U.S. stocks hold early strong gains in afternoon. 
•	  American Express and Kodak Fall As Blue-Chip Stocks Feel Pressure 
•	  N.Y. Stocks: Shares Hold Gains, Powered By Tech Deal 
•	  U.S. Markets:Stks Surge On IBM-Dell Pact But Choppy Mkt Seen 
•	  Israeli Delta Galil U.S. Issue Seen Aimed At Raising Profile 
•	  N.Y. Stocks: Blue-Chip Stocks Hold Strong Gains 
•	  N.Y. Stocks: Shares Hold Gains, Powered By Tech Deal 
•	  N.Y. Late Market Comment -5: Republic Indus, Tiffany Up 
•	  =N.Y. Late Market Comment -5: Republic Indus, Tiffany Up 
•	  Alcatel To Acquire Internet-Gear Firm Xylan For About $2 Billion 
•	  Small-Cap Stocks Log Gains Although Nasdaq Turns South 



 Tech Data Up Slightly In Late Trading After Upside 4Q >TECD 

356 words
30 March 1999
23:38
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Shares of Tech Data Corp. (TECD) inched higher in late-market trading Tuesday after the company's fourth-quarter operating earnings topped analysts' estimates by 2 cents a share. 

 The stock moved recently at 18 15/16, up from its regular-session close of 18 7/8, down 1/4, or 1.3%. 

 Following the final bell, Tech Data reported fourth-quarter net income of $34.5 million, or 64 cents a diluted share, excluding a pretax gain from the sale of assets. A First Call Corp. survey of analysts had foreseen a 62-cent bottom line before the gain. Last year, the Clearwater, Fla., computer distributor earned $26.1 million, or 53 cents a diluted share. Revenue rose to $3.85 billion from $2.11 billion a year ago. 

 Elsewhere in after-market action, traders dealt shares of struggling sneaker retailer Finish Line Inc. (FINL) even with their regular-hours close of 13 5/16. 

 The company recorded fourth-quarter earnings of 27 cents a share, three pennies better than what analysts had anticipated, but below the 37 cents it reported a year ago. Finish Line also said fourth-quarter same-store sells fell 8% from last year's corresponding period. 

 PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) stock was active in late trading, moving fractionally lower to 39 13/16 from its close in NYSE composite trading of 39 7/8. The company's bottling unit, Pepsi Bottling Group, locked at $23 each the 100 million shares it plans to offer in an initial public offering Wednesday. 

 Meanwhile, Midway Games said it expects third-quarter net income of 1 cent to 3 cents a share, well below the 18 cents reported a year ago. The company, citing lower home-video game sales for the profit warning, expects third-quarter revenue of $73 million to $75 million, well below the $94.3 million reported a year ago. 


Midway shares traded even their close in regular-hours trading of 9.
   - Scott Eden; 201-938-5173



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  03-30-99



05:38 PM


Document dj00000020010826dv3u01tps


Newscast: Dow closes above 10,000 for the first time in history

241 words
30 March 1999
NBC News: Today
TODA
English
(c) Copyright 1999, NBC Universal Inc. All Rights Reserved.    

ANN CURRY, anchor:

First, market news after Monday's huge day on Wall Street, where the Dow closed above 10,000 for the first time in history. Well, this morning, overseas markets are mixed. Stocks dipped about 1 percent in Tokyo. They were up slightly in early trading in London. On Monday, the Dow gained 184 points to close above the 10,000 mark. CNBC's Ron Insana is at the New York Stock Exchange this morning.

Ron, how much more can investors expect from stocks?

RON INSANA reporting:

Well, Ann, some of the most bullish prognosticators on Wall Street still have lofty expectations for the Dow, expecting that it could reach 11,500 to 12,000 by the end of this year. Now today, there could be a little profit-taking. Yesterday, Coca-Cola issued a warning about its first-quarter results. The stock looks a little lower. It's a Dow component, it could drag down the average. But many say that as long as the economy remains strong, inflation and interest rates remain low, then the Dow could continue on this historic ride through the end of this year, assuming there are no big events like the widening of the war in Kosovo, or maybe even more important, an increase of interest rates by the Federal Reserve. Ann:

CURRY: Ron Insana. Thank you, Ron, this morning.

Document TODA000020120224dv3u01f09


Newscast: Dow closes above 10,000 for the first time in history   

241 words
30 March 1999
NBC News: Today
TODA
English
(c) Copyright 1999, NBC Universal Inc. All Rights Reserved.    

ANN CURRY, anchor:   

First, market news after Monday's huge day on Wall Street, where the Dow closed above 10,000 for the first time in history. Well, this morning, overseas markets are mixed. Stocks dipped about 1 percent in Tokyo. They were up slightly in early trading in London. On Monday, the Dow gained 184 points to close above the 10,000 mark. CNBC's Ron Insana is at the New York Stock Exchange this morning.   

Ron, how much more can investors expect from stocks?   

RON INSANA reporting:   

Well, Ann, some of the most bullish prognosticators on Wall Street still have lofty expectations for the Dow, expecting that it could reach 11,500 to 12,000 by the end of this year. Now today, there could be a little profit-taking. Yesterday,  Coca-Cola issued a warning about its first-quarter results. The stock looks a little lower. It's a Dow component, it could drag down the average. But many say that as long as the economy remains strong, inflation and interest rates remain low, then the Dow could continue on this historic ride through the end of this year, assuming there are no big events like the widening of the war in Kosovo, or maybe even more important, an increase of interest rates by the Federal Reserve. Ann:   

CURRY: Ron Insana. Thank you, Ron, this morning.   

Document TODA000020070819dv3u001o2




World Stock Markets
 Global Markets Decline Sharply for Second Day On Profit-Taking, Corporate Earnings Worries 

 By Wall Street Journal staff reporters Craig Karmin in New York and Bill Spindle in Tokyo 
1,455 words
25 March 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
C18
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 Global markets fell sharply for a second consecutive day as profit-taking in Tokyo combined with festering concerns over corporate earnings and economic growth in Europe. 

 Japan's benchmark Nikkei 225 average fell 503 points, or 3.1%, to 15515. Nearly three shares fell for every one that rose, and many of the shares that have led this month's rally gave ground. 

 Meanwhile, the German market continued to sputter, leading most of Europe lower. The Xetra DAX ended down 1.5% to close at 4797.33. 

 Overall, the Dow Jones World Stock Index fell 0.76, or 0.37%, to 204.97. 

 After roaring higher in the previous three weeks, Japanese stocks fell sharply for the second straight trading session. Traders said the declines largely reflect efforts by domestic investors to lock in profits for this fiscal year, which ends Wednesday. 

 "This is probably going to be a profittaking week," said Jack Chang, a global fund manager at Putnam Investments in Boston, referring to the Tokyo market. 

 Indeed, so far this week the Nikkei has shed more than 5%, but it may be too soon to call an end to the rally, analysts and traders said. The stock market remains 11% higher than where it began the month. And despite the recent drop, overseas investors remained key buyers. 

 That means the main force behind the recent rally -- foreign investors scrambling into Japan to ensure they don't miss out on a prolonged upswing -- remains intact. Indeed, foreign buying was seen contributing to a 2.5% rebound in Japanese shares by the close of Thursday's morning session. 

 Yesterday's drop stemmed from domestic investors selling aggressively to lock in profits on one of the last trading days before the end of their fiscal year at month's end, traders said. Those same domestic investors are likely to start buying again next month, which should give the market another boost, analysts said. 

 Where the market heads from April 1 will increasingly depend on where the economy seems to be heading, said Ken Okamura, a strategist with Dresdner Kleinwort Benson Securities Asia Ltd. 

 "It's natural for the domestics to come in and buy" after the end of the fiscal year, said Mr. Okamura. "Whether the rally is sustainable depends on whether the economy actually shows some signs of life." 

 After nearly a year of seemingly endless gloom, the Japanese economic outlook has seen a trickle of good news recently. Business sentiment has picked up and some signs of improved consumer spending have appeared. April will begin with a key business survey, the Bank of Japan's closely watched tankan survey of business conditions, that will be released April 3. Many economists expect it to confirm a somewhat brighter outlook. 

 If the economy gains momentum over the next few months, more domestic investors probably will dive in and a sustained rally is more likely, these analysts say. But if the economy loses steam again, even the sort of corporate restructuring that has cheered investors this month may not be able to push stocks higher. 

 Yesterday, for example, two midsize securities companies, Wako Securities Co. and New Japan Securities Co., confirmed earlier reports of merger discussions that helped propel the rally last week. Yesterday, however, both companies' shares fell about 7% amid widespread speculation that the merger announcement would be made. After the announcement came, trading in the shares was suspended. 

 Wako shares finished trading at 280 yen while shares of New Japan finished at 265 yen. Shares of Sony Corp., whose restructuring announcement earlier this month helped spark the rally, also fell 5.7% to 10,750 yen. 

 In Europe, worries over corporate earnings and a stalled German economy dragged down most markets. London's FTSE index closed down 0.7% at 6016.7, while in Paris the CAC-40 fell 0.5% to 4058.16. 

 "You have markets that are richly valued, and a situation where earnings growth won't be robust, probably in the single-digit numbers," said Eric Swats, a global portfolio manager for Citibank. 

 Mr. Chang of Putnam noted that following the resignation earlier this month by Oskar Lafontaine, the left-leaning German finance minister, investors hoped for some indications that the German government would enact more business-friendly policy, or that the European Central Bank would cut interest rates. But so far "there's been a lag between expectations and what has happened," he said. 

 Others add that looming NATO air strikes in Kosovo further sullied the backdrop for European trading. "It's another excuse not to do anything and let cash accumulate," said Gary Dugan, European equity-market strategist with J.P. Morgan. 

 Of more concern to Mr. Dugan, however, are signs that German inflation may be picking up even as growth sputters. He referred to consumer-price data released Tuesday for the Bavaria region, which indicated that March prices were up 0.5% year-over-year. 

 Elsewhere, the Nikkei's retrenchment pressured other Asian markets, with Hong Kong particularly hard hit. In Brazil, the Bovespa rallied early but gave back most of those gains in a thinly traded session. 

 In HONG KONG, the Hang Seng index fell 3% to 10711.34, tracking recent declines in Tokyo and New York. Shares of HSBC Holdings PLC dropped 2.9% to 233 Hong Kong dollars with foreign institutional investors responsible for much of the selling. Meanwhile, investors are waiting for annual earnings results from Cheung Kong (Holdings) and Hutchison Whampoa Ltd., which are due to report Thursday. 

 In SEOUL, the Kospi eased 0.5% to 611.48. Steep losses early on were mitigated by comments from the central-bank governor, who indicated that lending rates at South Korean banks should fall. Shares of Samsung Corp. rose 500 won to 7,900 won on reports that it will set up a joint venture with Tesco PLC to develop markets in South Korea. And Mirae Corp. shares soared on news reports that it will set up an Internet joint venture with Lycos Inc. by the end of March. Mirae gained 645 won to 4,945 won. 

 In LONDON, Asian declines pressured the market early but a flat session on Wall Street helped steady the FTSE, which ended down 0.7% to 6016.7. Electrical retailer Dixons led the blue-chip decline, giving way to profit-taking. Dixons slipped 113 pence to 1228 pence. City Centre Restaurants shares rose 13 pence, or 26%, to 62.5 pence after releasing year-end results in line with expectations. Shares of Kenwood Appliances fell 20% to 76 pence after the electric-appliance maker posted its second profit warning in four months. 

 In FRANKFURT, the Xetra Dax closed down 1.5% at 4797.33. Among the day's bigger losers was chemical giant Hoechst, which ended 3% lower at 38.59 euros. Traders attributed the decline to worries about its merger with France's RhonePoulenc. The deal is expected to close by year's end. Software-maker SAP shook off early losses to finish 4.3% higher at 276 euros, up from an intraday low of 256.11 euros. Shares of utility and telecom company Viag, which had declined 10% in recent days, rebounded Wednesday. The stock closed up 4.3% at 492.2 euros. 

 In SAO PAULO, the Bovespa index finished up 0.1% to close at 10429. Brazilian shares initially surged ahead of a shareholder's meeting Thursday for state electricity-energy group CESP, which is to be split into three parts ahead of its privatization. But traders said that early optimism surrounding the move was offset by weak performances in overseas markets. 

 Traders expected activity on the Bovespa to pick up following the central bank's decision Wednesday to cut its benchmark interest rate to 42% from 45%. 


---
               Morgan Stanley Indexes
                                               % FROM
               Mar. 23         Mar. 22         12/31/98
U.S. ........  1235.3          1268.2          + 3.3
Britain ...... 1788.7          1814.3          + 2.6
Canada ........ 764.8           778.3          + 2.5
Japan ......... 815.7           821.3          +17.2
France ....... 1289.6          1325.6          + 3.1
Germany ....... 649.5           668.6          - 1.5
Hong Kong .... 6353.8          6368.5          + 6.9
Switzerland ... 881.5           898.8          - 1.1
Australia ..... 601.2           601.0          + 5.1
World Index .. 1169.6          1194.0          + 1.7
EAFE MSCI-p .. 1404.6          1425.2          + 0.0



As calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International Perspective,
Geneva. Each index, calculated in local currencies, is based on the
close of 1969 equaling 100.


Document j000000020010828dv3p0086r




 Motorola Sees Faster-Than-Expected Turnaround For Semiconductors 

 By Maria V. Georgianis, Staff Reporter 
384 words
25 March 1999
23:50
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Motorola Inc.'s restructuring efforts may lead the company's semiconductor business to reach a break-even point ahead of schedule, President and Chief Operating Officer Bob Growney told investors during a conference call Thursday. 

 Previously, the company forecast that its semiconductor business would break even in the second quarter. Turning around the unit is one of several challenges the company has faced, along with regaining ground in digital phones and coping with weak Asian economies. 

 Growney said Motorola (MOT) has implemented a "more focused semiconductor strategy," which, along with an improving market outlook, is "showing more positive results." 

 The company continues to examine where it can divest certain semiconductor businesses, Growney said during the call, which was hosted by Salomon Smith Barney telecommunications-equipment analyst Alex Cena. 

 Motorola's PowerPC and embedded network-computing chips are doing "extraordinarily well," Growney said. 

 Motorola is still a "work in progress" in all of its businesses, as it figures out where it can improve or gain a leadership role, Growney said. The company is on track to reach its goal of saving $1 billion annually, he said. 

 In telecommunications, Motorola is regaining share in the digital phone market, Growney said. Last year, Motorola and others lost ground to Nokia Corp. (NOKA). 

 While Telefon AB L.M. Ericsson (ERICY) Tuesday repeated a first-half profit warning, Growney said the wireless market remains "very strong" for Motorola. The company hasn't seen any weakness in the wireless infrastructure market in China as Ericsson said it has, Growney added. 

 Earlier Thursday Ericsson and Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) said they would end their long-running technology disputes in order to support a single world standard for Code Division Multiple Access, or CDMA, technology. 

 The companies also agreed to cross-license technology. In addition, Ericsson said it plans to buy Qualcomm's terrestrial CDMA infrastructure business. 

 Ericsson and Qualcomm's unification on the CDMA front "is good news for the wireless industry," Growney said. Ericsson's embrace of CDMA increases the competition for Motorola in handsets and infrastructure, he said. 

 - By Maria V. Georgianis; 201-938-5244; 

 maria.georgianis@cor.dowjones.com 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020329dv3p02654




 Shares Of Disk-Drive Parts Maker Read-Rite Slump On Sour Outlook 

183 words
25 March 1999
06:06
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Shares of Read-Rite Corp., a disk-drive component maker, fell Wednesday in response to a profit warning the company issued late Tuesday. 

 Read-Rite shares (RDRT) fell $1.625, or 21%, to close at $6.125 on volume of 6.1 million shares. Average daily volume is 1.4 million shares. 

 The company warned it expects to post a surprise loss for its fiscal second quarter on sales about 10% below the level posted in the first quarter. 

 The mean estimate of six analysts surveyed by First Call was for net income of seven cents a share for the period ending March 31. The company said it will report second-quarter results on April 14. 

 In the year-ago first quarter, the company reported sales of $230.2 million. For the year-ago second quarter, Read-Rite posted a loss of $62.2 million, or $1.29 a share, on sales of $187.1 million. 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020329dv3p025hn




 Motorola Op Chief -3: On Track To Save $1 Bln A Year >MOT 

243 words
25 March 1999
21:14
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Motorola is still a "work in progress" in all of its businesses, as it figures out where it can improve or gain a leadership role, President and Chief Operating Officer Growney said. The company is on track to reach its goal of saving $1 billion annually, he said. 

 In the telecommunications market, Motorola is regaining share in the digital phone market, Growney said. Last year, Motorola and others lost ground to Nokia Corp. (NOKA). 

 While Telefon AB L.M. Ericsson (ERICY) Tuesday repeated a first-half profit warning, Growney said the wireless market remains "very strong" for Motorola. The company hasn't seen any weakness in the wireless infrastructure market in China as Ericsson said it has, Growney added. 

 Earlier Thursday Ericsson and Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) said they would end their long-running technology disputes in order to support a single world standard for Code Division Multiple Access, or CDMA, technology. 

 The companies also agreed to cross-license technology. In addition, Ericsson said it plans to buy Qualcomm's terrestrial CDMA infrastructure business. 


Ericsson and Qualcomm's unification on the CDMA front "is good news
for the wireless industry," Growney said. Ericsson's embrace of CDMA
increases the competition for Motorola in handsets and infrastructure,
he said.
    -By Maria V. Georgianis; 201-938-5244;
    maria.georgianis@cor.dowjones.com



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  03-25-99



04:14 PM


Document dj00000020010826dv3p01n3r




Tuesday's Markets
 Stocks Drop 218.68 as Earnings Pressure Builds 

 By E.S. Browning 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
1,571 words
24 March 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
C1
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 Building anxiety over earnings, together with the hangover from last week's failed run at a Dow 10000 close, combined to end the March stock euphoria. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average took its second-worst tumble of the year in both point and percentage terms, falling 218.68 points, or 2.21%, to 9671.83. The industrial average gave up two weeks of gains. The blue-chip index remains up 5.34% for the year. 

 But after closing just a whisker -- 2.38 points -- short of the 10000 mark on Thursday, the industrials now need to gain 328.17 points, or 3.39%, to reach that psychologically important barrier. (The only bigger fall than yesterday's for the index this year was on Jan. 14, a 228.63-point drop amid Brazil jitters.) 

 Technology stocks, hit by fears that soft first-quarter personal-computer sales will hobble earnings, led the market down. Microsoft, the stock with the nation's highest market capitalization, plunged 3.62%, or 6 1/4, to 166 9/16 on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The technology-stock-dominated Nasdaq Composite Index fell harder than the industrial average in percentage terms, dropping 73.10, or 3.05%, to 2322.84. 

 With the once-hot technology stocks sagging, the Nasdaq Composite has given up more than half its 1999 gains, and is up 5.94% on the year. For the first time in weeks, the Dow industrials' year-to-date gains are pulling even with those of the Nasdaq Composite. The industrials' shortage of tech stocks and heavy dose of economically sensitive stocks had held it back, but now that tech shortage is an advantage. 

 Fears yesterday about coming Western air strikes against Yugoslavia helped cause some buying of safe Treasury bonds. But bond gains were moderate and the dollar was off. Some traders said that the problem isn't foreign policy, but the onset of the season that arrives at the end of each quarter, when investors start wringing their hands over possible quarterly earnings shortfalls. 

 "You really had the ultimate momentum attempt, which was running stocks through 10000, and when you have that fail, with all the talk about valuation, that heightens people's sensitivity a little bit," said Michael Clark, head of U.S. stock trading at Credit Suisse First Boston. "I can't underline enough how significant the loss of momentum is, because there are a lot of people who only play it for that reason." 

 Richard Unruh, chief investment officer for stocks at Philadelphia asset-management group Delaware Investments, called the stock decline "overdue. Obviously it was triggered by several disappointing releases that affected the technology sector and the banking area. But the real problem has to do with the narrowness of the market," or the fact that gains had become concentrated in a few huge, popular stocks such as Microsoft. 

 "This could just be a minor correction," Mr. Unruh said. "But extremely narrow markets like this can't go on forever, because they push up the favorite stocks to the point that there is no way that they can achieve the expectations that are set for them." 

 The most immediate problem is that this is the season for bad earnings news. As the quarter draws to a close, companies that can see disappointing earnings coming tend to announce it in advance, to avoid surprising shareholders later and, possibly, provoking lawsuits. Companies with good news feel less need to announce it. 

 The result is that the last two weeks of the quarter tend to be jammed with bad news. Good news generally must wait for the early part of the next quarter, in this case, April. 

 One of the most recent disappointments came from from regional banking group First American Corp., which fell almost 10% after warning analysts that it won't meet first-quarter consensus earnings estimates. That, together with the jitters over Yugoslavia, helped pull down bank stocks in general, which had been among the leaders of the March rally. 

 But the biggest worries center on technology stocks, which have been the market drivers virtually since 1994. Because those stocks have gained so sharply, any disappointment hits their stock prices hard, and translates into trouble for the entire market. 

 A negative comment about International Business Machines from a Morgan Stanley Dean Witter analyst has been blamed for knocking that stock down on Friday, and knocking the industrial average, which includes IBM, out of Dow 10000 territory. 

 Dell Computer hasn't recovered from its February announcement that revenue growth for the quarter ending January was weaker than analysts expected. And negative comments from a Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette analyst Monday helped push it down further. 

 Stocks fell because of "an accumulation of concerns about earnings," together with the news that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries is moving to restrain production, which would push up the price of oil, said Tim Morris, chief investment officer at Bessemer Trust. 

 But he added, "I think investors are overreacting on both counts." 

 He, and other optimists, pointed out that earnings worries at the end of quarters often are outweighed by the actual earnings reports, which tend to be better than analysts expect. 

 "We'll have to wait and see, but I think this is the same old same old," said Mr. Morris. "They were worried about PC sales in the fourth quarter, too. I don't know that we have discerned anything that is terribly different today than a couple of months ago. Those sales projections are pretty volatile and it is the characteristic of the business." 

 All the same, he added, "The techs have been getting a little frothy, there's no doubt about it. This pullback might even be described as healthy." 

 Added Alfred Kugel, senior investment strategist at Stein Roe & Farnham Investment Management in Chicago, "My guess is that we aren't going anywhere on the upside until we actually get the first-quarter reports. If they come in better than expected, as they have in recent quarters, we could get the trigger for another upside move. But we won't know that for a few more weeks." 

 Some investors worry that the problem could be more serious. "There isn't a big margin for error in the market. It is overvalued," said Mr. Unruh of Delaware Investments. 

 Mr. Kugel and Mr. Morris both said that some investors decided it was time to pull back because the industrial average couldn't close above 10000 before the end-of-quarter earnings-warnings season kicked in. 

 "It's been struggling for the last few days since we first got near 10000 on the Dow," Mr. Kugel said. "I wouldn't put a lot of weight on the round number, but obviously it is having a psychological impact." 

 The biggest problem stocks are facing, in this view, is simply that they have temporarily run out of steam after posting surprisingly big gains. 

 "You had almost a 700-point rally from March 1 up until the end of last week," noted Larry Lawler, head of stock trading at Dreyfus Corp. "That is a big move in a short period of time, so you get a little pullback." 

 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which unlike the Dow industrials includes all the big Nasdaq technology stocks, fell 34.87, or 2.69%, to 1262.14. For the year, it still is up 2.68%, and the Nasdaq Composite is up 5.94%. 

 The industrial average's drop was the 11th biggest point-drop ever, but not one of the biggest in percentage terms. The optimists pointed out that two good 100-point moves would put it back on the doorstep of 10000. But they tended to add that, with earnings season upon us, such a jump is a lot less likely than it was earlier in the month, when falling interest rates were creating excitement over stocks. 

 The fall of more than 180 points in the Dow industrials triggered the so-called uptick rule, restricting certain types of computer-driven program trading. 

 The average share of stock listed on the New York Stock Exchange fell $1.12, or 2.40%, to $45.64. 

 World-wide, stocks declined in dollar terms. The Dow Jones World Stock Index fell 4.15 points to 205.73. 

 In major market action: 

 Stocks fell. On the Big Board, where 808.7 million shares traded, just 678 stocks rose and 2,357 fell. 

 Bonds rose. The bellwether 30-year Treasury bond gained 3/8 , or $3.75 per $1,000 bond face-value, pulling the yield back to 5.538%. 

 The dollar fell. Late in New York, it traded at $1.0915 to the euro and 118.08 yen to the dollar, from $1.0907 and 118.15 yen. 


---
               Arrivederci, Dow 10000?
  Amid Earnings Anxiety
  Recent profit warnings from companies themselves or Wall Street
analysts
                                               % PRICE
COMPANY        WARNINGS                        CHANGE*
Coca-Cola      Merrill Lynch cuts              -6.23%
               profit forecast
BellSouth      Goldman cuts                   -13.96
               profit forecast
Dell           Donaldson, Lufkin &            -34.29
               Jenrette cuts profit forecast
IBM            Morgan Stanley cuts price      -16.05
               target on revenue concerns
First Union    Announces job cuts and         -17.96
               projected earnings below
               expectations following
               January earnings warning
*from 1999 high
Source: Telerate, WSJ research


Document j000000020010828dv3o007pf




 N.Y. Stocks: Blue Chips Are Mixed On Earnings Jitters 

Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition Roundup
555 words
24 March 1999
20:35
Dow Jones Asian Equities Report
AER
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Blue chips bounced back Wednesday led by a
strong performance for beleaguered technology stocks.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 23 to 9695 in late afternoon
trading. The Standard & Poor's 500-Index fell 5.30 to 1267.50 and the
New York Stock Ex change Composite Index edged up 1.10 to 596.50.
Declining issues outpaced advancers 1,473 to 1,401 on the Big Board,
as volume reached 627 million shares.
Meanwhile, the Nasdaq Composite Index advanced 20 to 2342.90.
Networking-equipment maker 3Com issued a earnings report after the
market closed Tuesday that exceeded diminished expectations, but raised
questions about the extent of 3Com's recovery from the stumbles
associated with the U.S. Robotics acquisition.
   The Santa Clara, Calif., company said it earned 24 cents a share for
the fiscal third quarter, compared with four cents a share in the same
period a year earlier.


 Analysts had expected 3Com to earn 23 cents a share, after the company warned in early March of disappointing results. Shares of 3Com inched up 3/8 to 24. 

 Some investors took comfort from talk in the market early Wednesday that Goldman, Sachs & Co. market str ategist Abby Joseph Cohen had bumped her estimates for the Dow industrials and S&P 500 for the year from 9850 to 10300 and from 1275 to 1325, respectively. Ms. 

 Cohen could not be reached to comment. 

 America Online dropped 4 3/8 to 116 5/8. Brown Brothers Harriman downgraded its short-term investment rating on the Dulles, Va., Internet provider to "neutral" from "buy.' International Business Machines jumped 4 to 169 15/16. The Armonk, N.Y., computer giant said it will sell disk drives to EMC over the n ext five years in a deal valued at $3 billion, chalking up its second multibillion-dollar supply deal this month. Shares of Hopkinton, Mass., ECM rose 3 3/4 to 117 5/8. 

 Seagate Technology, which also makes disk drives, slipped 15/16 to 27 3/16 on the news. 

 Comdisco slipped 1/4 to 16. The Rosemont, Ill., mainframe-leasing company is expected to announce that it will sell its portfolio of mainframe leases and leave a medical-equipment business to focus on leasing and computer services. The company is ex pected to take a $150 million pretax charge for write-downs and restructuring, resulting in a net loss of about $53 million, or 35 cents a share, for the fiscal second quarter ending March 31. 

 Burlington Resources jumped 1 1/4 to 39 3/4. Merrill Lynch & Co. named the Houston energy holding company to it 'focus one" stock list. 

 American depositary receipts of L.M. Ericsson slipped 1 5/8 to 20 15/16. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter downgraded its rating on the Swedish telecommunications group to "underperf orm" from "neutral" after it reiterated that its first-half profit would fall short of its year-ago performance. Ericsson first indicated in early December that its first-half earnings would be disappointing, a warning that led troubled investors to wipe $8.7 billion off Ericsson's market value. 

 (END) Dow Jones Newswires  24-03-99 

 2035GMT 

20716 4116 5042

Document aer0000020010824dv3o00au1


 The Collective Wisdom of the Workforce: Conversations with Employees Regarding Performance Evaluation.(Brief Article) 

 James P. Clifford 
15,450 words
22 March 1999
Public Personnel Management
PPNM
119
ISSN: 0091-0260; Volume 28; Issue 1
English
Copyright 1999 Gale Group Inc. All rights reserved.

 During the summer and fall of 1994, employees were offered an opportunity to meet and talk about performance evaluation. A number of questions were prepared to stimulate conversation; but basically, the employees were encouraged to talk about their concerns. Nearly 150 employees attended a variety of discussion meetings to share their views. In some cases, specific groups requested to be included, such as secretaries. Comments were recorded and then returned to the employees for verification. Fourteen meetings were held, which generated more that 450 comments on the topic of performance evaluation and peripheral issues. The basic interest, which drove this activity, was the question is there a better way to conduct performance evaluations? 

 A panel of six reviewers coded the comments according to: those which were positive on performance evaluation, those which were negative on performance evaluation and those related to peripheral issues. The comments were then sorted according to their code and summarized according the major themes. As might be expected, many of the same or similar opinions were repeated in many of the meetings and these themes became more prominent with repetition. 

 Professional literature was reviewed relating to performance evaluation in three primary areas; total quality management, communication and legal standards. The comments by employees were considered in terms of these three issues to determine if the experts were consistent with employee comments. 

 At every level of the process, effort was made to keep employees informed of how the project was progressing. A report containing conclusions and recommendations was written. A major recommendation was to conduct a demonstration project consistent with employee comments and the professional literature. An initial step in the demonstration project was the development of a statement of purpose and the design of reporting forms. These documents are a part of this article, and are a significant departure from traditional performance evaluation. 

 Governments must continually review procedures if they are going to improve the quality of goods and services they provide. In keeping with this philosophy, a review of employee performance evaluation procedures was conducted. The present performance evaluation procedure, with some minor modifications, has been in place for more than twenty-five years. Since implementation of the current evaluation program many changes have taken place in the field of human resource management. Significant changes have occurred in laws effecting an organization's interaction with its employees. The tremendous increase in information and technology has significantly affected work during that time. Finally, the public demand for improved quality of service, as well as a demand for increased access, has influenced how government does business. These, as well as other changes, call for a vigorous review of procedures to improve government's effectiveness in dealing with its employees and the public. 

 The procedure of employee performance evaluation has been an issue of considerable irritation through the years. It has been a concern for the organization as well as the individual employee. It is a procedure that deserves close review because of the number of complaints it generates. In the case of performance evaluation, employees are customers and, therefore, their opinions are very important. To learn what concerns employees have about performance evaluation, their opinions were solicited. 

 In addition to the employee comments there was a review of current professional literature in the areas of total quality management, communication, and the legal aspects of performance evaluation. Based on the employees' opinions and the review of the professional literature, recommendations have been developed. These recommendations suggest that models be designed and tested in an effort to develop a more effective performance evaluation procedure. 

 Review of Professional Literature 

 Total Quality Management 

 According to Edwards Demin, "The annual performance review sneaked in and became popular because it does not require anyone to face the problems of people. It is easier to rate them; focus on the outcomes. What Western industry needs is methods that will improve the outcomes. Suggestions follow. 

 1. Institute education in leadership, obligations, principles, and methods. 

 2. Make a more careful selection of the people in the first place. 

 3. Provide better training and education after selection. 

 4. A leader, instead of being a judge, will be a colleague, counseling and leading his people on a day-to-day basis, learning from the and with them. Everybody must be on a team to work for improvement of quality..."[1] 

 Deming, has a great deal to say about performance evaluation. In his third chapter of Out of the Crisis, he lists 6 "deadly diseases," which stand in the way of organizational transformation. Deadly disease number 3 is, "Evaluation of performance, merit rating, or annual review." "One of the main effects of evaluation of performance is nourishment of short-term thinking and short-time performances."[2] Under the heading of Stifling Teamwork, Deming goes on to say, "Evaluation of performance nourishes fear. People are afraid to ask questions that might indicate any possible doubt about the boss's ideas and decisions, or about his logic. The game becomes one of politics."[3] Because of its very nature, Deming suggests, governmental service is moving toward "short-term performance," and losing "constancy of purpose." Lack of constancy of purpose is Deming's number one "deadly disease." "Management that is interested in raising dividends will take immediate, decisive steps to eliminate work standards, rates, and piece work, to put in their place intelligent supervision, following principles and examples in this book."[4] "The job of management is to replace work standards by knowledgeable and intelligent leadership. Leaders must have some understanding of the job and of the principles expounded in Chapters 8 and 11 (Some New Principles of Training and Leadership and Common Causes and Special Causes of Improvement). Wherever work standards have been thrown out and replaced by leadership, quality and productivity have gone up substantially, and people are happier on the job."[5] 

 Communication 

 Chris Argyris points out that much of what has recently been taught as "good communication" has been injurious to organizations and employees.[6] He states, "Espoused theories differ widely, but most theories-in-use have the same set of four governing values. All of us design our behavior in order to remain in unilateral control, to maximize winning and minimize losing, to suppress negative feelings, and to be as rational as possible. By this we mean laying out clear-cut goals and then evaluating our own behavior on the basis of whether or not we've achieved them. 

 The purpose of this strategy is to avoid vulnerability, risk, embarrassment, and the appearance of incompetence. In other words, it is a deeply defensive strategy and a recipe for ineffective learning. We might even call it a recipe for anti-learning, because it helps us avoid reflecting on the counterproductive consequences of our own behavior. Theories-in-use assume a world that prizes unilateral control and winning above all else, and in that world we focus primarily on controlling others and on making sure that we are not ourselves controlled. If any reflection does occur, it is in the service of winning and controlling, not of opening ourselves to learning."[7] 

 He goes on to say, "Today, facing competitive pressures an earlier generation could hardly have imagined, managers need employees who think constantly and creatively about the needs of the organization. They need employees with as much intrinsic motivation and as deep a sense of organizational stewardship as any company executive. To effect this, corporate communications must demand more of everyone involved. Leaders and subordinates alike--those who ask and those who answer--must all begin struggling with a new level of self-awareness, candor, and responsibility."[8] 

 Legal Standards 

 In a section on Performance Evaluation, The Employee Compensation in Michigan, states; "It should come as no surprise, therefore, that the use of performance ratings has raised serious legal questions. The courts has found their use to be discriminatory when: 

 * They were based on subjective and poorly defined criteria; 

 * They may have been affected by sexual and/or racial bias; 

 * They were not collected and scored under standardized conditions, thus affecting their reliability and validity."[9] 

 "With the whole field of performance evaluation so obviously fraught with peril for the company trying to avoid EEO violations, is there a safe path to follow? The answer, of course, is yes, provided you follow the criteria for evaluation systems laid down by the Uniform Guidelines. 

 1. The system must meet the "business necessity" test. 

 2. You must be able to prove that there is no other means of evaluating employee performance that would be less discriminatory. 

 3. If your system has had an "adverse effect" on women, a minority group, the physically handicapped, or employees aged 40 and over, you must be able to prove that it is "valid," that it is directly related to the jobs it covers, and that it does indeed measure important aspects of job performance."[10] 

 "A legally sound performance appraisal is...-Based on an objective job analysis...-Consistent...-Useful...-Valid. Developing a performance evaluation program that meets the above criteria does more than protect your firm from discrimination complaints. It also improves employee morale and ensures managerial support for the system because everyone knows that it is designed to help them achieve personal as well as corporate goals."11 

 Methodology 

 Notifying Employees 

 The method used to collect the opinions of the employees was a group interview technique. Notices of meetings were posted on bulletin boards and distributed to employees indicating the time, date and place of the meetings to discuss "their perception, interest, and concerns regarding the city's performance evaluation process." Employees who wished to attend a meeting were released from their work. Many meetings were scheduled at 7:30 a.m., the beginning of shift, and lasted approximately an hour and a half. 

 The comments made by the employees were recorded by staff from the human resources department. Comments were entered into the computer and copies were distributed to each employee who attended the meeting. Employees were instructed, "If you have corrections or changes, please write them on the report and return it to the Human Resources Department." Fifteen meetings were held with a total of 142 employees attending, out of a total population of 1780 permanent employees. Nearly 450 comments were recorded (Appendix A). 

 Questions asked at employee meetings 

 1. Is there a need for performance evaluations? 

 2. Should there be performance evaluation and, if so, how should it work? 

 3. Should the employee be asked what they think the goals should be for their jobs? 

 4. What is the purpose for performance evaluation in your opinion? 

 5. Should there be a relationship between compensation and performance evaluation? 

 6. What is your opinion about the statement, "the employee has a right to assume his/her performance is satisfactory unless they are informed to the contrary"? 

 7. Should there be a rating system? (This question refers to a number score on the evaluation form) 

 8. How often should supervisor/subordinate meet to discuss an employee's performance? 

 (Note: not all of these questions were asked at all meetings) 

 Processing the data 

 Once the data was collected six raters were asked to code the statements with one of three codes. "A" those statements which suggested what performance evaluation should be, "B" those statements which suggested what performance evaluation should not be, and "C" those statements which dealt with peripheral issues affecting performance evaluation. 

 All the statements were assigned a code based on the following principles. If a statement received 3 or more of any of the three letters, the statement received that letter code provided the statement did not receive more than 2 of the other letters. If a statement received 2 of each of the letters it was coded a "C." If the statement received 3 of two letters such as 3 As and 3 Bs, it was given alternating letters. For example, the first statement that received 3 As and 3 Bs was coded "A," and the next statement that received 3 As and 3 Bs was coded "B." The codes were then entered into the computer and the statements were sorted according to their code (Appendix A). 

 Employees' Opinions about What Performance Evaluation Should Be 

 There is a need for performance evaluation 

 There are repeated statements from nearly every group to discuss the need for some type of performance evaluation. They were also quite clear that the evaluation needed to be different than what was currently in place. Statements included: "provides a structured opportunity to formally communicate both ways with the employee about their past performance, there needs to be an official record of the employee's progress, and performance evaluations are indispensable from the point of view of communicating with employees regularly on how they are doing." 

 Performance evaluation should be meaningful 

 This refers to the expression that performance evaluation needs to be related to the work the employee is responsible to perform. "There should be a relationship between performance evaluation and the job (the work the employee is asked to perform)." "If the performance evaluation is constructive it will be valuable." "Performance evaluations are good if they are related to the job." "Performance evaluations (periodic) is an opportunity to sit down annually with employees to talk about their work performance." 

 Performance evaluation should include positive aspects as well as areas for improvement 

 "It should be a time for both employer and employee, giving well-dones as well as a time to discuss the employee's shortcomings." "It should include criticism as well as what they did right." "Performance evaluation is a scheduled opportunity to provide positive suggestions to subordinates as well as suggestions on areas for improvements." "There needs to be emphasis on the positive aspects of the employee's performance because the negative aspects will always get adequate attention." 

 Performance evaluations should be a time to talk about future expectations 

 "Employees need to sit down with supervisors and talk about what is to be achieved. It will take more time but it is important because it gets the supervisor and subordinate talking." "It is important that at least once a year the supervisor sets goals for the employee. Give the employee a list of things that need to be done during the coming year." "It should include a discussion on areas for potential growth." "The reason for talking to employees about how they fit into the organization is that it helps them understand their role in the "big picture" and realize that their work is important in terms of the whole city effort." "The system should encourage employees in developing objectives and setting priorities." 

 Performance evaluations should be an open forum which communicate both ways 

 "Performance evaluation should be a time to communicate both ways, what the employee should do and what the organization should do." "The meeting should not just be concerned with the subordinate's performance but also the supervisor's performance in terms of what the supervisor might do better to help the subordinate to be successful in the future." "It should also be an opportunity for employees to provide information to supervisors." "Performance evaluation is used as a way to communicate where employees can improve and how management can support them better so they can be more productive." 

 Employees' Opinions about what Performance Evaluation Should Not Be 

 It should not be just a traits system 

 "The present system doesn't work. There are no agreed upon standards." "The current categories of traits are not clear. No two people agree upon what they mean and how they are measured." "Performance evaluation should be an objective process. The present trait rating process is not objective." "If a performance evaluation system reflects the current system then there should be no performance evaluation." "If a rating system is going to exist, employees need to understand how it works. The present system has, and always has had negative connotations." "The present categories are useless. For example the category of 'attitude' is too broad." 

 It should not be based on personality 

 "If the supervisor has something against an employee the supervisor can score the employee low and deny the wage increase even though the employee's work was satisfactory." "There are 'brown nosers' and radicals who have personal conflicts with their supervisor and that has greater impact on ratings than work performance." "How well an employee does in the performance evaluation depends on the relationship between the individual and the supervisor." "Performance evaluations are a reflection of personal opinion by the supervisor and how that supervisor likes or doesn't like the employee." "People who are 'in the family' get scores of 4 and 5. Those who are not part of 'MCI friends and family' get 3s." 

 It should not be demoralizing 

 "If the organization treats employees like children, they will behave as children." "Most employees get a score of 3, which means average." "The present system can only discourage employees. If you work hard you get average scores. If an employee doesn't do much, that employee will get average scores." "The present evaluation system doesn't do anything for morale. It destroys morale." " If employees pay attention to their job and are conscientious about their work a score of 3 on a performance evaluation is frustrating. A 3 means that you are average. People outside of government believe we are 3, average, and that is not the case." "When an employee has worked at their job for twenty or more years they are not overage. A score of 3 on the evaluation form tells employees they are average. Very few people can do the work that we do as well as we do it." 

 Employees' Opinions about Important Peripheral Issues Related to Performance Evaluation 

 The relationship between performance evaluation and compensation 

 Compensation is, and should be, related to performance evaluation. If an employee doesn't do the job right they should not get an increase." "There should be some incentive attached to performance evaluations even for people at the 'F' step. They should receive some type of monetary compensation." "There needs to be some incentive. There needs to be a financial consequence for the employee as a result of the evaluation." "Compensation should be related to performance evaluation." "There needs to be a set time for performance review and compensation adjustment otherwise a random approach to compensation adjustment will cause serious problems in the organization." "One problem with attaching compensation to performance evaluation is that departments may see this as a means to keep their budgets under control. If employees do not have satisfactory evaluations the department will not have to pay the increase in wages." "With the current system the employee gets rated just enough to get their merit step increase." "Evaluations should not be attached to step increases." "When the evaluation is attached to money, there are a lot of reservations when completing the form because of the consequences." "Step increases are not attached to performance evaluation, they are a function of time." "There shouldn't be a relationship between compensation and evaluation. In government it is not possible to provide bonuses and profit sharing in a meaningful manner." "For a practical matter, having compensation attached to performance evaluation may be an impediment. While a poor rating in itself may not trigger a grievance, the denial of the increase or the consequence of the negative evaluation may trigger a grievance. To avoid a grievance supervisors may try to avoid negative evaluations." 

 Who should be involved in employee performance evaluation 

 "Employees should evaluate supervisors." "The person doing the evaluation should know the work of the employee." "Sometimes it is helpful to have the employees evaluate themselves as well as their supervisors so that the two evaluations can be compared." "It would be helpful for an employee to do a self evaluation." "Multiple raters reduce bias." "There could be anonymous ratings by peers." " I don't like the idea of peers rating me." "With only one rater there is great potential for bias." "Many times supervisors who complete performance evaluations are not familiar with the employee's performance." "Some supervisors have too many employees to supervise. They can't know the employees well enough to do a good evaluation." "Self evaluations won't work because persons with big egos will rate themselves too high." "As a union employee with some supervisory responsibility, there is some effort to influence my evaluation of an employee who is also in my union." "Sometimes crew leaders or lead workers are not asked for their input on the evaluation. These are the employees who are most knowledgeable about the employees work so their assessment of the employee should be considered." 

 Findings Based on Employees' Opinions 

 1. Performance evaluation is of great importance and interest to employees, both management and non-management. 

 2. The present process for performance evaluation has many problems. Some employees indicated that they have not been evaluated in many years, while others have stated that they have been presented with their evaluations and asked to sign them without any discussion or explanation. There is a significant lack of consistency and continuity in the administration and application of the present performance evaluation process. 

 3. Performance evaluation has merit and will be beneficial to both the employees and the organization if it is properly designed and administered. 

 4. Performance evaluation must be related to the work the employee is asked to perform, and the work must be understood by both the supervisor and the employee. 

 5. Performance evaluation should include positive aspects about the employee's performance as well as areas for improvement. 

 6. Performance evaluation should include recommendations for improvement by the employee as well as recommendations for improvement by the organization and/or management. 

 7. Performance evaluation should not be limited to past performance but should also include expected performance in the future. 

 8. Performance evaluation should include specific job related duties and responsibilities as well as traits. 

 9. Performance evaluation should be as objective as possible and related to productivity and work outcomes, i.e. "business necessity." 

 10. Performance evaluation should not be demoralizing but should concentrate on employee growth, learning, and increased performance and productivity. 

 Recommendations 

 1. Presently there is not a clear statement addressing the purpose for performance evaluation. This has lead to considerable confusion as to why performance evaluation is performed. The purpose can range from improving employee productivity to discipline. Therefore, the number one recommendation is to develop a statement of purpose for performance evaluation. The opinions of the employees as well as the concepts of a "learning organization," total quality management, and legal requirements should be important considerations in the development of the statement. 

 2. Conduct one or two demonstration projects in a department or service group. The demonstration projects should run for a year to a year and a half. The projects should test performance evaluation systems that are consistent with employee comments and the professional literature regarding total quality management, legal requirements and improved communication. 

 3. Forms, policies, and procedures should be developed for the demonstration projects. 

 4. An evaluation process should be part of the demonstration project and should include quarterly reports as well as a final report of the project. 

 5. Compensation should not be part of the demonstration project until the process demonstrates its effectiveness without the complication of compensation. 

 6. Employees involved in the demonstration program should be trained regarding the principles and practices of the new performance evaluation process. 

 7. Employees involved in the demonstration project should receive all benefits they would expect to receive under the present performance evaluation process. 

 Development of a demonstration project 

 The establishment of a demonstration project requires the identification of a department or work group interested in participating in a pilot project and the agreement and endorsement of the collective bargaining unit representing the employees. The Motor Equipment Department agreed to participate in the project, as did the collective bargaining unit. Motor Equipment was a good choice because the department consists of 39 employees organized into several small work groups covering two shifts. The work of the department is fairly stable and the employees duties are well defined. It is a manageable size yet similar to many larger departments and work groups. 

 The first objective of the demonstration project was to have the employees develop a statement of purpose for performance evaluation. Employees were asked to submit 3 positive reasons for performance evaluation from the perspective of the employer and 3 positive reasons for performance evaluation from the perspective of the employee. The responses from the employees were then listed (29 employer reasons) and (28 employee reasons) on a form and distributed to the 39 employees in the department. Employees were asked to identify the top 5 reasons in each category. Based on the responses it was clear that the employees had needs for performance evaluation that were different from those of the employer. The resulting statement of purpose (Appendix B) reflects this difference. The statement of purpose addresses those needs common to both groups and well as the needs unique to each group. Copies of the statement of purpose were distributed to all employees in the department for their review and comment. The statement of purpose was agreed to by the employees. 

 Once the Statement of Purpose was agreed to, report forms were developed to reflect the needs of the employer and the employees (Appendix C). Two forms with instructions were developed, one for the supervisor and one for the team member. The supervisor's form was intended to communicate major responsibilities the supervisor expected the employee to concentrate on during the upcoming four months. The team member form provided the employee an opportunity to suggest how the organization can assist the employee to be more productive. Meetings were held with employees to explain the purpose and procedures for completing the forms. The process was designed to ensure that more time would be devoted to supervisor team member communication around the issue of performance evaluation and expectations. An effort was made to be more specific about the employee's responsibilities by shortening the reporting from an annual report to an evaluation every four months. The demonstration project was designed to be consistent with the employee's comments, legal issues, issues of communication, and total quality management. 

 Once the statement of purpose was established and the forms were designed it was possible to move to the implementation stage of the demonstration project. The demonstration project will last at least 18 months to include an entire one year cycle of performance evaluation and time to evaluate the project and write a report. 

 Conclusions 

 The comments by the employees regarding their view of performance evaluation procedures were, for the most part, consistent with the professional literature. Their desire for performance evaluation to be related to work responsibilities is consistent with the legal requirements. The issue of performance evaluation being an exchange between the employee and supervisor about past performance and future expectations is consistent with quality management. There appears to be a difference between the employees and Edwards Deming regarding the need for performance evaluation. Deming states that it is not needed and in fact might be counter productive, while the employees feel there is a need for it as long as it is related to the work performed. The concept of performance evaluation covering strengths as well as areas of improvement and that the procedure will include suggestions from employees on how to improve work is consistent with Argyris' risk taking communications. The views of the employees on the procedures of employee performance evaluation reflect a collective wisdom within the work force, which should be recognized and consulted by government. This is a ready resource, which for little or no cost may have a significant impact on improving the quality of goods and services provided by government. The implementation portion of the demonstration project may provide insights into how procedures are changed in complex organizations. 

 Notes 

 [1] Deming, Edwards W., Out of the Crisis, MIT, Cambridge, Mass., 1992. 

 [2] Ibid p.105. 

 [3] Ibid p.108. 

 [4] Ibid. P. 72. 

 [5] Ibid. p. 74. 

 [6] Argyris, Chris, "Good Communication That Blocks Learning," Harvard Business Review, Vol. 72, No. 4. 

 [7] Ibid p.80. 

 [8] Ibid.p.85. 

 [9] Employee Compensation In Michigan, Volume II, Business & Legal Reporter Inc., 1994, P.V-242. 

 [10] Ibid. p.v-243. 

 [11] Ibid., p.v-248. 


James P. Clifford
City of Grand Rapids
300 Monroe Avenue, N.W.
Grand Rapids, MI 49503



James P. Clifford is the Assistant Human Resources Director with the
City of Grand Rapids, Michigan, a partner with the Human Resources
Systems Institute and has more than 25 years experience in the field of
Human Resource Management. Other publications include: Job Analysis: Why
Do It and How Should It Be Done?, Manage Work Better to Better Manage
Human Resources and a manual on job analysis entitled Job Analysis: Why
Do It and How Should It Be Done? He is a graduate of Michigan State
University's School of Labor and Industrial Relations and an Adjunct
Professor at Grand Valley State University. He has made numerous
presentations at professional conferences, is a founding member of West
Michigan Chapter of the American Society for Public Administration and
the Michigan Public Management Institute.



Appendix A



Statements Indicating What Performance Evaluation Should Be
A 21. If it were a "fair" evaluation would you want a formal
performance
      evaluation? There was a strong "yes" response.
A 20. Yes.
A 34. We should be measured on attitude.
A  1. Performance Evaluation is a scheduled opportunity to provide
positive
      suggestions to subordinates as well as suggestions on areas of
      improvements.
A 43. There should be some reward after the "F" step. It doesn't have
to be
      a step increase, it could be compensatory time or something like
that.
A 43. There are two (2) reasons for performance evaluation.
   1. The evaluation which effects the employee's compensation, i.e.,
within
      steps. This one may be effective because if the employee's
      deficiencies are significant it can effect compensation.
   2. The evaluation which has little value for the employee since they
have
      been here so long they are not eligible for compensation
adjustment.
A  9. If employees are doing something right they should be told that
they
      are when the supervisor becomes aware of the positive
performance.
A 20. It should be connected.
A 30. Employees should be evaluated according to the projects they are
      assigned.
A 42. Yes. Even after the "F" step.
A  7. The system should provide and encourage employees in developing
      objectives and setting priorities.
A 15. The evaluation needs to cover everything. Attitude is important.
A  3. The categories should provide the opportunity to express wherethe
      employee is at.
A 32. Supervisors should provide clear expectations to the employee.
A  1. Performance evaluation is used as a way to communicate where
employees
      can improve and how management can support them better so theycan
be
      more productive.
A 10. There should be continuous performance evaluation going on allthe
time
      and the employee should be told when they are doing things right
and
      when they are doing things wrong.
A 11. Employees need to be talked to at least once a year about how
they and
      the work they perform fit into the organization.
A  2. It is a time to write down, for the record, where the employeeis
in
      terms of their work performance.
A  3. It should include criticism as well as what they did right.
A 14. The reason for talking to employees about how they fit into the
      organization is that it helps them understand their role in the
"big
      picture" and realize that their work is important in terms of the
      whole city effort.
A 15. It would be a good idea to have a GUIDANCE DOCUMENT which
explains to
      employees the performance evaluation system and how that system
affects
      them.
A  8. Employees should sit down with supervisors from time to time to
talk
      about issues that are relevant to the work each employee is
responsible
      to perform.
A 22. Multiple raters reduce bias.
A  1. Performance Evaluation (Periodic) is an opportunity to sit down
      annually with employees to talk about their work performance.
A 13. The items in the performance evaluation needs to deal with
performance
      and the performance needs to be specific.
A 12. One of the benefits of having number scores on the evaluation is
that
      it allows for comparison to the "average."
A 13. The principle; "employees have a right to assume their work is
      satisfactory unless informed to the contrary" should be
understood by
      supervisors and subordinates.
A  5. How the form is used is more important than the form itself.
A  4. It should also be an opportunity for employees to provide
information
      to supervisors.
A 12. Employees need to be told how they are doing continuously. If
      supervisors hold their comments until the annual review the
comments
      will be too late and not timely.
A 16. The employee needs to be informed at the time of the negative
      performance and there is a need for a record.
      A simple FORM OF INSTRUCTION.
A 20. Performance evaluation is a useful tool if it is used properly.
A  4. The annual (periodic) performance evaluation provides a point of
      departure for expressing expectations and future requirements
from
      time to time. It is time to review with the employee where we are
      at and provide an opportunity for the employee to give feedback as
      to how they see the situation.
A 41. It is an opportunity for employees to talk with their bosses.
A 40. Performance evaluation, if taken serious, can be a good tool.
A 37. You should learn whether or not you are getting the job done.
A 42. I enjoy my performance evaluation because it is an opportunity
      for me to meet with my boss and talk about a variety of things,
not
      just my performance, but things affecting the department.
A 43. It lets you know if you are doing your job and how well you are
doing
      your job.
A  8. If the employee does not hear to the contrary they have a right to
      assume their work is satisfactory.
A 44. Jobs are changing and you need to keep learning even after
youhave
      reached the "F" step.
A 36. It is an opportunity to find out how you are doing.
A 33. My supervisor spends time with us and asks us if we have any
questions.
      We talk about how the work is going.
A  5. There should be a place on the form for the employee to make a
      statement about the evaluation.
A  5. It is important to use the narrative section on the form and not
just
      use the number scores.
A 17. Some managers have you do your own as well as evaluate you
andthen
      compares the two evaluations. The comparison of the two
evaluations
      serve as a basis for a discussion with the employee and the
supervisor.
A 18. Self evaluation would be interesting since people often under
rate
      themselves.
A 30. There should be some type of objectives, one or two, which youand
your
      supervisor agree on and they should be a part of performance
      evaluation.
A  7. Performance Evaluations should include what the employee does
well.
A 17. The employees have a right to assume their work is satisfactory
unless
      they are informed to the contrary.
A 10. It would be nice to have a performance evaluation process so long
as
      it is accurate and true.
A  8. There needs to be a set time for performance review and
compensation
      adjustment other wise a random approach to compensation
adjustment will
      cause serious problems in the organization.
A  6. If there are surprises during the annual (period) review for
either
      party that can be a signal the communication may have broken down
      during the reporting period.
A  7. Compensation should be related to performance evaluation.
A 18. Evaluating employees in the same classification but with
different
      skills, knowledge and ability is difficult. The organization
needs to
      use the strengths of the individuals and accommodate their
weaknesses.
A 14. Management employees need to be evaluated on their management and
      implementation of the performance evaluation process.
A  2. Sometimes the day to day negative comments might be viewed as
picky
      details. The annual evaluation can be more positive.
A  9. As often as problems occur.
A  3. Performance evaluation is valuable even after the employee
hasreached
      the F step because it provides an opportunity to make suggestions
how
      the employee might improve his/her performance.
A  3. Everyone needs to understand what the standards are based on.
A 32. The supervisor needs to know what I do, so they can tell me where
I am
      slipping and how I can improve.
A  5. There needs to be a periodic performance evaluation for employees
      however it needs to be meaningful.
A 25. Supervisors should not complete the form before they meet withthe
      employee. Issues should be discussed with the employee before the
      form is completed. The employee may provide information the
supervisor
      is not aware of during the discussion.
A  4. The annual performance evaluation is a time for the employee to
make
      suggestions about how they believe performance and productivity
can be
      improved.
A 24. There could be anonymous ratings by peers.
A  8. The open ended range at the "F" step which was used for executive
      positions had an impact. It was not necessary positive, i.e. it
may not
      have resulted in improved performance but it did deter diminished
      performance.
A 15. Positive reinforcement needs to be administered at the time ofthe
      occurrence of the event.
A 11. It is important that compensation is tied to performance
evaluation.
A 34. "Good work" should be recognized and should be a part of the
evaluation
      process. Everyone does some "good work."
A  7. There needs to be some incentive. There needs to be a financial
      consequence for the employee as a result of the evaluation.
A 10. There should be a way to give "well done's" at the department
level
      also, not just at the City level.
A  3. It does provide time for the supervisor to sit down with the
employee
      to talk about their work.
A 26. Employees have a right to be successful in their jobs.
A 13. Recently I have asked an employee to complete her evaluation and
then
      we talked about her scores. Since we work together on a regular
basis
      this employee has a good feel for my assessment of her
performance.
A 35. The participants in the meetings were asked if they agree withthe
      statement; "An employee has a right to assume their work is
      satisfactory unless they are informed to the contrary." The
      participants agreed with the statement.
A 36. If it is necessary to evaluate employees personally then that
      evaluation should be on a separate form. There needs to be an
      evaluation based on the work outputs and products of the employee
      separate from whether or not the supervisor likes the employee.
A  8. It is important that at least once a year the supervisor sets
goals
      for the employee. Give the employee a list of things that needto
be
      done during the coming year.
A  9. Employees should be told they are doing a good job when they are
doing
      a good job.
A 33. The person doing the evaluation should know the work of the
employee.
A 17. Employees should evaluate supervisors.
A  2. It should be a time for both, giving "well done's" as well as a
time to
      discuss the employees short comings.
A  1. Performance Evaluation is a positive tool in that it forces the
      department to take time to sit with the employee to discuss their
      performance. (Annually, Semi-Annually)
A 29. Probably more time should be spent with the excellent employee.
A 12. There should be a place to make brief specific comments on the
      evaluation form for each of the rating items.
A  4. Solutions suggested by the employees should be recorded on the
      evaluation form.
A  2. If they are used correctly and are important and taken seriously
by
      the organization, supervisors and employees they will be
beneficial.
A 15. It might be important to be evaluating work groups rather than
      individuals.
A  3. It can be used to ask employees if they have suggestions or
solution
      to problems which effect their job.
A  1. Performance evaluation (periodic) provides a structured
opportunity to
      formally communicate both ways with the employee about their past
      performance.
A  2. It provides an opportunity for the employee to talk about how
he/she
      perceives things are going.
A 11. Employees need to know what they are required to do like they are
with
      the natural progression program.
A  8. There needs to be an official record of the employee and the
employee's
      progress.
A  7. Performance evaluation has been used with employees to improve
      performance.
A  5. There needs to be emphasis on the positive aspects of the
employee's
      performance because the negative aspects will always get adequate
      attention.
A 48. Evaluations should be based on fact not on assumptions.
A 13. There is a place on the form for the employee to comment
regarding
      their reaction to the rating.
A 16. Time should be afforded managers and managers should be
encouraged to
      participate in management development. Their own development
should be
      an item of their performance evaluation.
A 11. Employees need to sit down with supervisors and talk about what
is to
      be achieved. It will take more time but it is important because
it gets
      the supervisor and subordinate talking.
A  7. We are in constant contact with our employees and provide
themquick
      feed back on how they are doing. We do not wait for the annual
      evaluation to let employees know of the good work or substandard
work
      which they perform.
A  1. Performance evaluations are indispensable from the point of view
of
      communicating with employees regularly on how they are doing.
A 23. Sometimes it is helpful to have the employee evaluate themselves
as
      well as the supervisor so that the two evaluations can be
compared.
A 15. There should be specific statements on the form which indicatewhy
      the employee is receiving the rating they are. These statements
should
      be related to the work assigned to the employee.
A 13. Evaluations are valuable if they are used properly. It is hardto
      separate performance from personality.
A 22. Yes, if it is equitable.
A  7. It should be understood that employees have a right to assume
that
      their work is satisfactory unless informed to the contrary.
A  5. It is important to sit down and talk with people when they arenot
      pulling their weight. It has to have teeth in it.
A 18. There is a link between motivated employees, their evaluation and
      their upward mobility in the organization.
A  9. If possible it is important to substantiate why an employee isnot
      receiving a pay increase.
A 12. The performance evaluation process needs to deal with specifics.
For
      example, attendance and punctuality are specific items that can be
      documented.
A  3. Performance evaluations are good if they are related to the job.
A  2. Performance evaluations give employees an opportunity to know how
they
      are doing.
A 19. With a self evaluation and a supervisor's evaluation the employee
and
      the supervisor could see where they agree and where they
disagree.
A  7. If the performance evaluation is constructive it will be
valuable.
A 16. Performance evaluations should be an open forum which
communicates
      both ways. The meeting should not just be concerned with the
      subordinates performance but also the supervisors performance in
terms
      of what the supervisor might do better to help the subordinateto
be
      successful in the future.
A 18. With regard to the relation between evaluation and compensation,
      increased knowledge and skill should be rewarded.
A  4. It should include a discussion on areas for potential growth.
A 18. It would be helpful for an employee to do a self evaluation.
A 35. People like to be rewarded for doing a good job. It might be nice
to
      give them a day off or free parking.
A 11. We agree employees have a right to assume that their work is
      satisfactory unless they are informed to the contrary.
A  3. Performance evaluation forces supervisors and subordinates to
talk
      about what they don't normally talk about.
A 12. There should be a way to give a step increase even though the
employee
      may have some deficiencies.
A 12. Yes, but it is hard to do.
A  3. There should be a relationship between the performance evaluation
and
      the job (the work the employee is asked to perform).
A  5. Compensation is, and should be, related to performance
evaluation. If
      an employee doesn't do the job right they should not get an
increase.
A 24. High performance could be rewarded with an acting assignment or a
one
      time bonus.
A  1. Performance evaluations give you insight into where you are and
where
      you might improve.
A  4. We do not advocate doing away with performance evaluation.
A 13. To do that well, we will need a program which is much tighter and
      more structured than we have now.
A  4. It is useful to both parties, supervisors and subordinates,
toreview
      the employee's performance.
A 40. There should be some type of an appeal process outside of the
grievance
      process. When there are disagreements with regard to the accuracy
of
      the evaluation even though the employee is not denied a merit
increase
      there should be some way for the employee to request a review by a
      third party.
A 39. There should be some incentive attached to performance
evaluations even
      for people at the "F" step. Some type of monetary compensation.
A 34. Yes.
Statements Indicating What Performance Evaluation Should Not Be.
B 22. Supervisors often have too many employees to evaluate. They
cannot get
      close enough to the employees to know their work and evaluate
them
      correctly.
B 17. The meaning of the trait attitude is not clear. What is a
goodattitude?
      It is easier for people who have "gravy" jobs to have a "good
attitude"
      than it is for an employee who has a "grubby" job.
B 14. There doesn't seem to be consistency across departments. In one
      department I have gotten 90s and in another department I get
average.
B 20. The question was put to the employees, "If you had your
choicewould
      you want to have formal performance evaluations"? There was a
strong
      "no" response.
B 19. It is inconsistent when an employee or the department receivesa
number
      of letters from citizens commending their performance and thenthe
      employee fails their evaluation.
B 10. The favored employees are given the easy "gravy" jobs and get
scores of
      4 or higher on their evaluations. The employees assigned to the
      difficult, grubby jobs are scored 3 or lower on their
evaluations.
B 13. There is a lack of consistency in the number of supervisors who
rate an
      employee some times all of the supervisors the employee has
worked for
      will rate the employee other times it maybe only one or possibly
two.
B 18. There were questions about the trait APPEARANCE. Why have it at
all?
      Why is the score limited to a maximum of "3"?
B 12. When an employee is injured and assigned other duties their
evaluation
      is lowered. In some cases the employee will not be passed on
their
      evaluation if they are injured and assigned other work.
B  3. If you catch management doing something wrong and file a
grievance they
      will retaliate in your performance evaluation.
B  2. The point system is worthless.
B  3. People should be aware of how they are doing. The present system
is
      ritualized and familiar to employees and supervisors.
B  6. Performance Evaluations should be designed in such a way to
simplify
      the review process.
B  6. For a practical matter, having compensation attached to
performance
      evaluation may be an impediment in that while poor ratings in
      themselves may not trigger a grievance the denial of the increase
or
      the consequence of the negative evaluation may trigger a
grievance. To
      avoid a grievance supervisors may try to avoid negative
evaluations.
B 18. There doesn't seem to be a perfect way to do evaluations.
B  2. After the "F" step the current performance evaluation program is
      worthless because there is no consequence for the employee.
B 19. Trying to get an employee to do something they are not able todo
can
      be very frustrating.
B 14. Sometime crew leaders or leadworkers are not asked for their
input on
      the evaluation. These are the employees who are most
knowledgeable
      about the employee's work so their assessment of the employee
should be
      considered.
B 16. The meaning of the trait comprehension is not clear. In one case
an
      employee was scored a 2 on comprehension and was told it was
because
      the employee was late reporting for work twice during the
reporting
      period.
B  5. The present instrument doesn't allow a manager to do either of:
   1. answer did the employee get the work done and what was the
quality of
      that work, and,
   2. answer the question, How does the employee get along? What arethe
      employees interpersonal skills.
B 22. The time required to do a competent formal annual evaluation will
be
      not less than 4 hours per employee.
B  5. There is a lack of regularity. Performance evaluations need tobe
      regular and consistent.
B  4. If you are liked by your supervisor you get a good rating.
B  6. The existing system of performance evaluation does not requireus
to
      state specifics about performance for the employee.
B  6. The numbers for the present performance evaluation doesn't have
      meaning. No one know what a 4 means or what a 3 means. There
should
      be statements to explain why the evaluation is being given.
B 10. Supervisors will not like the discipline which results from a
form
      which requires them to document their scores. However it is
important
      for them and the employee that reasons be provided.
B  3. The present categories are useless. For example the category of
      "attitude" is too broad.
B  3. They are not beneficial after the "F" step.
B 25. Citizens are always right and the employee is always wrong. Inone
case
      an employee was threatened by a citizen and rather than confront
the
      citizen the employee was transferred to another part of the City.
B  2. If you "rock the boat", they will retaliate in your evaluation. By
      "rock the boat", is meant oppose management.
B  1. Those people who are the favorites get the good ratings,
thosethat are
      on the "outs" get poor ratings.
B 31. There is a place for remarks on the evaluation form. There should
be
      remarks on the form.
B  9. We don't care for the form. There should be a way to comment on
things
      such as sick leave and timeliness. There should be a place
forcomment
      on specific items when employees perform either above or belowthe
      norm. Supervisors should be required to write at least one
sentence on
      each item supporting the score which is given.
B  8. The existing performance evaluation instrument with its point
scale
      doesn't work as a corrective device over time. Rating with points
has
      little value.
B 11. When an employee works for more than one supervisor, for example
5,
      the supervisors may or may not like the employee and their
evaluations
      will reflect their bias for the employee.
B  6. In some cases an employee has been rated by a supervisor who
doesn't
      supervise the employee.
B  7. In one case an employee was rated satisfactory during the
probation
      period and then 6 months later the employee didn't pass their
      evaluation.
B 20. Step increases are nice but when the employee is at the top step
there
      is no incentive to continue to improve.
B 21. In order for the evaluation process to motivate employees the
form
      should be more personalized. More thought needs to be given tothe
      scores 1 through 5.
B  4. When you get rated the supervisor is told by upper management how
to
     rate you. The supervisor (foreperson) is not "free" to rate the
     employee on their own.
B 23. Supervisors are sometimes asked to evaluate employees but theyare
not
      told what the employee should be doing.
B  8. Performance evaluations take a lot of time and the manager(s) or
the
      organization doesn't get much out of them.
B  5. In one case an employee was rated satisfactory and later the
rating
      was changed to non-satisfactory.
B  9. Performance evaluations are a reflection of personal opinion by
the
      supervisor and how that supervisor likes or doesn't like the
employee
      it is not based on the employee's performance or work outcomes.
B 24. Management is often more concerned about what "City Hall" or the
      "citizen" thinks than they are about what the employee thinks.
B 16. Some employees even complete their own evaluations.
B 19. Peer evaluations might be difficult.
B 20. Evaluation of supervisors might be difficult.
B 21. Evaluation of supervisors might be difficult since jealousy may
affect
      the evaluation of the supervisor.
B 15. I think the whole thing is a farce.
B 14. I am against performance evaluation because most of what goes on
has
      to do with personality rather than performance.
B  4. Some supervisors copy the last evaluation.
B  6. One supervisor bragged that in 40 years he had never given an
employee
      a score of 5. Before the supervisor retired he gave every
employee a 5
      on their evaluation.
B 10. Nobody ever comes close to scoring 100% on the present evaluation
      system.
B 12. I have the trait "Supervision" on my evaluation and since I don't
      supervise anyone my supervisor scored me a "0."
B 23. Evaluation of supervisors may be dangerous since they are in
aposition
      to effect the employees earnings and employment.
B 25. What is the purpose for the traits Appearance and
Punctuality,since
      you can only receive a score of 3 in these categories?
B 34. No one in our department has been evaluation after the "F" step
since
      1984.
B 38. Once you hit the "F" step if you can't go back to a lower
stepwhat
      is the purpose for performance evaluation?
B 39. There is no good reason for the current performance evaluation.
B 45. When some people reach the "F" step they quite trying. They cease
to
      take on new responsibilities. They do not consider anything new as
      part of their job.
B 32. What do you have to do to get evaluated? I haven't been evaluated
in
      years.
B 31. Supervisors should be required to spend time with the employeeto
      talk about their evaluation. I am handed mine and asked to sign
it.
B 26. If there is a union pay will be based on class rather than
performance
      or output.
B 27. Performance evaluations are too subjective to attach some typeof
      bonus to the evaluation.
B 29. Some supervisors will misuse this and give it to everyone.
B  2. They put me in a bad mood for a week.
B  1. I think they stink.
B 22. The "golden boys" would get it, the others wouldn't.
B  8. We have a particular problem in that some of our evaluations are
      filled out by people in the same union as the people they are
      evaluating. It has not caused us a problem yet but it could.
B  6. After the "F" step it is moot.
B 11. Why have punctuality on the form? If you are going to be late you
      shouldn't be here.
B  4. The trait factors are too broad.
B  2. The concept of performance evaluation tends to lose its intended
      purpose when managers are faced with having to deal with
grievances
      if an employee is rated below a "good average" score.
B  8. Sometime there can be a strained relationship between a
supervisor
      and a subordinate so rather than giving an employee a verbal
      instruction, a verbal warning or a counseling session the
supervisor
      will wait until the periodic review and use that as a forum
totalk
      with the employee.
B 10. Steps A through E are important. The semi-annual evaluation is
      important. Once the employee reaches the F step things seem
tochange
      and performance evaluation doesn't have the same meaning.
B 23. You know how well you are doing your work, you don't need a pat on
      the back.
B 20. The term exceeds requirements and the scores 4 & 5 have
causedsome
      difficulty. There may be better terms to use for these number
values.
B  9. The numbers (1 through 5) are too restrictive, there should bea
      greater range.
B 12. If you don't do the job you should be written up. There is no
      need to wait for the performance evaluation to discipline an
employee.
B 10. Punctuality and dress are not necessary.
B 21. Meets requirements doesn't communicate very well what the
employee has
      done. There is a need for better terms to improve communication.
B  9. After the "F" step there is no need for the semi-annual or annual
      performance evaluation.
B 10. It is not clear what the numbers mean for the existing form.
B 22. There needs to be a range which allows for reflecting how the
employee
      has improved on their weakness over the reporting period as well
as
      maintain their strengths.
B  8. The form should be specific to the work of the position. If the
city
      provides clothing why rate appearance?
B  6. You shouldn't need performance evaluation except for the firstsix
(6)
      months. The organization should know by that time if an employee
is
      going to work out or not.
B  7. Performance evaluations do not affect the behavior of the
employee.
      If the employee is a good worker the employee will continue tobe a
      good employee. If the employee is a poor employee the performance
      evaluation will have little effect on changing the employee's
      performance.
B 21. It should not be connected.
B  1. Employee Performance evaluation is mundane, not meaningful.
B 19. The present system cannot evaluate me fairly.
B 21. You might get a number for a category during a rating period. The
      following rating period you work harder, and you get a lower
rating.
      There doesn't seem to be any rationale to the numbers.
B 14. If you don't pass your performance evaluation, you will not get a
      step increase.
B 12. With the current system the employee gets rated just enough toget
      their merit step increase.
B  2. The present performance evaluation tends to be "ho hum."
B 27. It seems that supervisors juggle the individual scores around so
the
      total score comes out the way they want it. If you get a two in
one
      category, they will put a four in another category; so they have
an
      average score of three.
B 28. The highest score you can get for punctuality is a "3." If youare
      never late in 15 years, you get a "3." Why have it?
B 23. I keep a diary of the work I perform during the year. None of
that is
      used when I am evaluated.
B 22. When an employee receives a lower score than they did in the
previous
      rating period, it demoralizes the employee.
B 25. The highest score you can get on appearance is a "3." Why haveit?
B 26. If an employee does not supervise employees why have it on the
      evaluation form. The employee receives a score of "3" which
brings
      their average score down.
B 15. It is a tool for managers to talk about the good and the bad
aspects
      of an employee's performance; however, you don't hear any of the
      "good."
B 16. Most everyone gets "3" which means average.
B 58. Once an employee reaches the "F" step, so what? Performance
evaluations
      don't have any meaning.
B 54. Self evaluations won't work because persons with big egos
willrate
      themselves too high.
B 60. There is too much personality involved in performance evaluation.
B 62. After I raise questions about safety concerns, I was told thatmy
      leadworker would be talked to about not scoring me too high onmy
      performance evaluation. I took that to be a threat and
retaliation
      because I raised the issues of safety.
B 61. I was told the reason I received a low score during one
ratingperiod
      was so I could get a higher score in the next rating period.
Ididn't
      get higher scores in the next rating period.
B 55. I don't like the numbers.
B 57. Evaluations should not be attached to step increases.
B 18. Nobody gets "4" or "5."
B 17. An evaluator told me I wouldn't get a high score.B 30. The
present
      system can only discourage employees. If you work hard you
      get average scores. If an employee doesn't do much, that employee
will
      get average scores.
B 34. Some supervisors have too many employees to supervise. They can't
know
      the employees well enough to do a good evaluation.
B 24. The only categories that the supervisor can score objectively is
      appearance and punctuality.
B 15. Many times supervisors who complete performance evaluations are
not
      familiar with the employee's performance.
B 36. I want room to breath and make mistakes.
B  5. The standards should be based on the department or the division.
What
      is the department or division expected to accomplish? Categories
such
      as "attitude" are hard to understand.
B 27. Some supervisors are not aware of what the employee is doing.
B 23. I don't like the idea of peers rating me.
B 16. Supervisors are only aware of the negative performance of the
      employee. Supervisors have a biased perception of the employee's
      performance.
B 33. The present performance evaluation process is the "big brotheris
      watching" approach and is an example of micro managing.
B 28. Traits are too broad and vague. There is a need to measure the
      quantity and quality of each employee's work.
B 26. Evaluations are used as a means of controlling the budget. By not
      passing employees on their evaluations the department can
savemoney.
B  4. The current categories of traits are not clear. No two people
agree on
     what they mean and how they are measured.
B  1. The present performance evaluation system is a joke.
B 35. I don't like people looking over my shoulder.
B 17. When an employee asks a supervisor how they may improve their
      performance they often times get little or no valuable advice.
B 21. With only one rater there is great potential for bias.
B 41. It seems like everyone "flops" at the "F" step. There is an
attitude
      of why keep trying after the "F" step.B 49. The only facts that
stick
      in a supervisor's mind are the mistakes.
B 45. One problem with attaching compensation with performance
evaluation
      is that departments may see this as a means to keep their budgets
      under control. If employees do not have satisfactory evaluations
      the department will not have to pay the increase in wages.
B 46. If the supervisor has something against an employee the
supervisor
      can score the employee low and deny the wage increase even though
      the employee's work was satisfactory.
B 10. That might work in some places in the city, it doesn't apply
here.
B  1. There could be some benefit but not the way it is performed now.
B  7. In some cases, supervisors have not been supportive when
employees
      try to make improvements.
B 38. If the organization treats employees like children, they will
behave
      as children.
B 39. Supervisors do not need to be breathing down the employee's neck
but
      they do need to know what is going on.
B  2. Performance evaluation should be an objective process. The
present
      trait rating process is not objective.
B  6. If there is no support from the organization, it is better notto
      make the effort.
B 48. The problem with the present system is that it's built on a
competitive
      philosophy while what we need is one that supports
cooperativework
      systems.
B  2. The present system doesn't seem to work. There are no agreed upon
      standards.
B 38. Past performance is not taken into account when being considered
for
      another job in the organization, what is the purpose of
performance
      evaluation?
B 22. Self evaluation would not work if money is involved. Which
employee
      is going to lose $1,000 because they don't rate themselves
      satisfactory.
B 20. Self evaluations have problems because some employees will over
rate
      themselves while other employees will under rate themselves.
B 37. If there isn't some reward, why work harder?
B 36. If the employee is not getting something from the evaluation, why
do
      it?
B 40. Filling out the performance evaluation form after an employee
reaches
      the "F" step is useless. There should be a way for supervisorsto
talk
      with employees when a problem occurs.
B 39. It seems to be more important to personally influence the
interview
      panel than it is to have a good work record.
B 24. If an employee has been with the city for 15 years or more there
      doesn't seem to be a reason to evaluate the employee.
B  1. When I went from one range to the next highest range my
scoreswent
      down. The explanation I received was that the standards were
higher.
      My work ethic had not change nor my dedication to my work.
B 19. If a rating system is going to exist employees need to understand
how
      it works. The present system has and always has had negative
      connotations.
B  3. If a performance evaluation system reflects the current
systemthen
      there should be no performance evaluation.
B  4. How does performance evaluation impact on our job. If it doesn't
      impact on our job such as result in a promotion what good is it?
B 18. I have been with the city more than 26 years and have been
evaluated
      many times. It is not clear what the rating of the current system
      means.
B 11. There doesn't need to be a record of an employee's performance.
How
      is that record used?
B 23. Why does an employee need to be evaluated after they have reached
the
      "F" step?
B 21. No.
B 45. Categories are too confining. "Comprehension," is too vague.
B 44. There should be a broader scale. 1 through 5 is too restrictive.
B 27. The trait KNOWLEDGE OF WORK is not clear. Some employees are
required
      to operate equipment that few employees operate but they receive a
      score of "3" just like the employees that operate fewer piecesof
      equipment. Employees who operate a greater variety of equipment
should
      receive a higher score on KNOWLEDGE OF WORK.
B  1. The six month probationary period is too long. Supervisors should
know
      in less time than that if an employee is going to work out.
B  7. It is not clear what is meant by "appearance" or why that is
important
      to evaluate.
B 28. When an employee has worked at their job for twenty or more years
they
      are not average. A score of "3" on the evaluation form tells
employees
      they are average. Very few people can do the work that we do as
well
      as we do it.
B 29. People who are "in the family" gets scores of "4" and "5." Those
who
      are not part of "MCI, friends and family" get "3s."
B 47. How can we rate a young supervisor as marginal and a senior
supervisor
      all "5s" for managing an outstanding crew without demoralizingthe
      young supervisor?
B 30. Threes, "3s," are just passing, they are "right on the line,"
they
      leave no "breathing room."
B 29. Just because an employee is the best of all employees in the
      classification does not mean that that employee is a "5,"
      "considerably exceeds requirements."
B 30. What is the purpose of the whole performance evaluation system?
B 26. There doesn't seem to be any constituency among raters. Some
      supervisors will rate certain traits one way and other raters
will
      rate them quite differently.
B 31. If employees pay attention to their job and are conscientious
about
      their work a score of "3" on performance evaluation is
frustrating.
      "3" means that you are average. People outside of government
believe
      we are "3," average, and that is not the case.
B 32. If an employee makes suggestions and tries to improve on the job
you
      get a "3."
B 25. Under the present system there is no consequence for employeesat
the
      "F" step. There is too much evaluation going on now that has no
value.
      Performance evaluation takes a lot of time and it has very little
      meaning.
B 24. How well an employee does in the performance evaluation depends on
      the relationship between the individual and the supervisor.
B 28. In order for the present system to have validity there has to be
an
      employee who is a "5." The scoring system has got to be
realistic.
B 27. Why is appearance even an item on the form?
B 16. Employees get criticized when they identify problems which are
      caused by their supervisors.
B 17. There shouldn't be a relationship between compensation and
      evaluation. In government it is not possible to provide bonuses
      and profit sharing in a meaningful manner.
B  7. Many of the supervisors do not observe and are not familiar
enough
      with an employee's performance to evaluate the employee.
B 46. Categories should be more clearly defined.
B 19. As a union employee with some supervisory responsibility thereis
      some effort to influence my evaluation of an employee who is also
      in my union.
B  6. If an employee has good marks on the technical aspects of their
job
      and a low score on attitude then the supervisor is looking fora
      way to justify a low score.
B  8. The weighing of scores are of no value, it should be a pass fail
      system.
B  5. There are "brown nosers" and radicals who have personal conflicts
      with their supervisor and that has greater impact on ratings than
      work performance.
B  1. Clerks are a relatively low level job in the organization and yet
      they seem to have more categories on their evaluation than some of
      the upper level positions.
B 41. For the last few years, employees have been told your reputation
      is more important than the information on the form. For example,
if
      the form reflects that your work performance is good but you have
a
      reputation as a trouble maker, the form won't do you much good.
B 36. Step increases are not attached to performance evaluation.
B 37. When the evaluation is attached to money, there are a lot of
      reservations when completing the form because of the
consequences.
B 35. The present evaluation system doesn't do anything for morale. It
      destroys morale.
B 39. There are problems with the performance evaluation process as it
      exists now.
B 45. Some of the rationale for scores on the performance evaluationare
      not based on the employee's performance. For example, "you can't
      receive a "5" because Joe Eager Beaver didn't get a "5," or you
can't
      get a "5" because Sally Jane who has been here longer didn't get a
      "5.""
B 40. Performance evaluations are not uniform throughout the
organization.
B 11. Is there a purpose for the existing performance evaluation?
      Supervisors give scores, such as all 3s because it is convenient
for
      them to do that. It takes the least amount of effort on their
part.
B  9. One supervisor rates every employee low in the beginning so hecan
       rate them higher over time.
B 10. The manager had a bonus and a range at the F step for executives
and
      that did not work very well.
Statements Regarding Peripheral Aspects of Performance Evaluation
C 12. What is important is did the employee do the work assigned and
      accurately.
C  2. Employees should evaluate managers.
C 13. Some jobs are different within the same classification while
others
      in the same classification are very similar.
C 16. Standards should be flexible and be changed when it is reasonable
      to do so.
C 15. It may be possible to set standards for some departments but it
will
      not work in water repair.
C 14. Units of measure of production may work for some classifications
but
      not for others. In water repair the problems are always different
      therefore a standard measure would not work.
C 26. Having an environment where employees have a good feeling
whenthey
      walk in the door in the morning and a good feeling when they walk
out
      the door in the evening is its own reward and is motivational.
C  8. "Not passing," means not getting a "good average score."
C 25. If an employee is expected to perform at the average of all
employees
      in the classification how do superior or inferior employees score
on
      the rating scale?
C 24. Depending on the employees position they may not have much
flexibility
      about how work will be performed.
C 25. Money is not a motivator.
C 17. Employees and supervisors need to understand the standards of
      performance which are to be evaluated and there needs to be an
      orientation of employees on how the system should work.
C  6. If, "Work output" were clear for each department, for
example,then
      a city wide rating system could work.
C 19. A way to reward increased knowledge, skill and ability is for the
      employee to promote, either in series or non-series to higher
level
      positions.
C 27. De-motivaters are easier to do and to recognize than are
motivaters.
C  9. The performance evaluation should be related to step
increasesrather
      than step increases being a function of time.
C 59. Discipline of an employee should be handled outside of the
performance
      evaluation process.
C 14. If there are any surprises they are due to high scores which an
      employee may receive which they did not expect. Sometimes
employees do
      not perceive their work to be as valuable and important as does
their
      supervisor.
C 10. Job announcements should be sent to employees who may be
potential
      applicants, because of their work experience with the city, for
      job vacancies.
C 18. There should be a whistle blower protection policy.
C 12. If an employee is having trouble on the job they should be
informed
      of their problems before they sit down for their performance
evaluation
      review.
C 41. Supervisors need to document problems and inform the employee of
the
      problem when it occurs.
C 23. It would be good to have an incentive program for those employees
who
      are doing above average.
C 21. Self evaluation may work if they are combined with the
evaluations of
      the supervisor.
C 12. Who is evaluating management?
C 25. The department employee of the month could be rewarded with a one
time
      pay increase.
C 23. If there weren't any consequences the self evaluation
approachmight
      work.
C 21. Managers can motivate however it is easier to de-motivate thanit
is
      to motivate.
C 22. Motivation depends on what the individual is doing. Some jobs are
very
      distasteful.
C 17. The "good" employee is easy to evaluate, the "average" employee
is more
      difficult.
C 47. If peers and lead workers are going to rate employees they
aregoing to
      need to be trained.
C 22. There should be some way for subordinates to comment on the
performance
      of supervisors and at the same time protect the subordinate from
      retaliation.
C 30. A since of completion and accomplishment is motivational.
C 33. If you spend a third of your life working at your job you should
be
      more than "average."
C 15. Average performance should not result in a compensation increase.
      Average performance should not affect compensation.
C 29. Team work and developing team building is motivational.
C  6. There should be a way to give the employee a 2 without denyingthe
      employee a merit increase. Note: a 2 no longer automatically
results
      in denying a merit increase. The principle is still valid that
      managers should be able to use the full range of scores without
being
      tied to a redetermined result.
C 24. The evaluation of supervisors should go to the supervisor's
supervisor.
C 16. It takes approximately 2 hours to do an appropriate job on an
annual
      performance evaluation. It takes longer with a problem employee.
C 28. Employees need to realize a sense of accomplishment.
C 35. With an employee who has been around for a number of years andis
well
      established it is not necessary to evaluate the employee
everyyear.
      Once every two or three years is often enough.
C 28. There should be some innovative way to compensate employees for a
good
      job even after they have reached the "F" step. This may include
      something such as additional personal leave days or some
otherbenefit.
C 14. It might be helpful if managers had more flexibility in regards to
      warding compensation. Perhaps 2% could be awarded based on time
and
      the other 2% awarded based on beyond "successful" performance.
C 17. Performance evaluation can be a motivator and it can be a
de-motivator.
C 30. A good topic for a management training seminar is "How to
talkwith
      employees who have shortcomings."
C 42. I want to receive a copy of my performance evaluation. I want to
be
      able to track the progress of my own performance.
C 25. Employees want to do a good job and it is management's
responsibility
      to help employees do a good job.
C  7. Eliminate the entire process. What really matters is team
performance.
      What should be rated is how the team performs.
C  9. Compensation and performance evaluation should be separate.
C 27. When performance evaluation reflects other than good work, it
should
      be performed quarterly.
C  3. Some supervisors look at the last evaluation to determine how to
score
      the current evaluation.
C  8. How is evaluation related to service outputs?
C 13. The performance evaluation should be turned in on time.
C 53. There are mixed benefits to having subordinates evaluate
supervisors.
      Sometimes the strong disciplinarian will receive low evaluations
      initially; however, in the long run, they may be the most
effective
      and efficient.
C 43. Supervisors need to be trained in how the performance evaluation
      system works.
C 13. Everyone needs to be evaluated but numbers don't work. Employees
      should be rated; Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Needs Improvement
or
      Outstanding or some similar type of feedback.
C 28. More time is required in performance evaluation with the employee
      who needs improvement than with the excellent employee.
C 11. There should be a wider range of scores for each of the traits.
      Rather than 1 to 5 the scores should be 1 to 10.
C 56. Supervisors should be able to get away from their desks and spend
      more time talking with the employees.
C 15. If supervisors were more involved in the training of
employeesthey
      would be in a better position to do meaningful performance
evaluations.
C 21. The biggest reward is to be trusted.
C  4. The supervisor needs to keep notes during the year so the
supervisor
      can talk about specifics during the evaluation meeting.
C 24. It is important for employees to feel good about coming to work.
C 18. It might be valuable to have a range such as A to C that the
manager
      could place the employee on based on the performance evaluation.
A to
      F might be too great of a range.
C 20. What is important is to communicate to the employee that the
      organization is glad that they are here and give them a pat onthe
      back.
C 50. Maybe there are some jobs that are identical; but in most cases,
      they are different. In group activities, it is necessary for the
work
      to be unequal and complementary as well as cooperative.
C 51. Group evaluations may be good but not for all jobs. If the group
had
      the ability to reward or punish members, then it might work.
C  6. Maybe supervisors need to be trained on how to do performance
      evaluations.
C 23. The work environment is very important. For years we have
beentrying
      to get something other than the ugly, dangerous temporary
partitions
      for our employees. We have not been able to do that and it
hasbeen
      frustrating for them.
C 22. Integrity is very important. It is more important than money.
C  9. There should be a relationship between performance evaluation and
      motivation.
C 12. Expecting people to do things without proper training is
demoralizing.
C 13. Learning to use the computer is a good example. The training
provided
      by MIS for Word Perfect is working well.
C 10. Growth, self-improvement and achievement as well as learning new
      skills is a major motivation.
C 11. Accommodating learning is a good way to motivate employees.
C  9. The merit system is tied into performance evaluation.
C 10. Performance evaluation should be tied to natural progression.
C 10. Praise is a very good motivator, more so than compensation.
C 11. It is important for each employee to see how their piece (effort)
      contributes to the whole.
C 15. Each employee has discretion over setting their goals so long as
      their goals integrate with the major goals of the department. The
      calendar is fixed and is not adjustable. The employees need toget
      the work out on time.
C 33. Let the employees do some reporting to the supervisor about what
      they are doing. It will help the supervisors be better informed
      about what the employees are doing.
C 29. Performance evaluation should not be used for disciplinary
measures.
      You should not lose a merit step increase because of a low
performance
      evaluation. The are other ways to deal with disciplinary
measures.
C 13. Working together as a team is important because one member
motivates
      the other.
C 49. How do we use performance evaluation to build cooperation within a
      group when you have individuals who make significantly different
      contributions to the group?
C 19. Motivation has to come from the manager.
C 14. In our department we have many projects with a specific beginning
and
      an end which require the employees to work together. It is easy
for
      the employees to see their accomplishments.
C 31. If my work is slipping, I would like to know that so I can
improve my
      performance.
C 16. Everyone needs to know what the larger goals are.
C  5. We get very busy so it is important to have a reminder that itis
time
      for the employee's annual review.
C 42. I am reluctant to discard the existing process without having
      something better to replace it.
C  9. In terms of compensation as a motivator, some people do like to
move
      from one step to another, it depends on the individual.
C 44. If there are not problems with the categories for the employee,
the
      employee should receive a "pat on the back."
C 43. There should be an additional column on the form with the
heading,
      "Is There A Problem"?
C 12. Praise is more of a motivator than the amount the employee gets
paid.
C 38. When an employee has been with the organization 5 or more years,
the
      organization should know the type of work the employee does.
C 14. Employees should be allowed to make comments on their performance
      evaluation form.
C 15. When employees become aware of how productive they could be
ifthey
      had time to acquire new skills, but when time and resources are
not
      provided them, they become very frustrated.
C 13. Employees should have some way of evaluating management.
C 14. There should be some way for peer review of an employee's
performance.
C  9. Performance Evaluation should result in effective motivation. It
      should include a way to reward employees for exceptional work.
C  8. "Constructive" means the employee is told how they are doing on
the
      job.
C 20. There should be more than one rater. There could be 2 supervisors
and
      one peer.
C 40. Employees need to be evaluated more often than every three years.
C  5. Performance Evaluation requires a time commitment. Approximately 1
      hour each.
C 26. There should be an item on the form which addresses proper useof
      city facilities and equipment.
C 29. There should be bench marks for each position.
C 17. If supervisors are doing their job there shouldn't be a need for
      performance evaluation. "Doing their job" means communicating
with
      employees how they are performing their work assignments.
C 11. The Engineering Department bought pizza for everyone in the
department
      when the Revised Specification Book was completed.
C  6. Details should be included on the form to remind supervisors and
      employees of specific performance which resulted in a particular
      rating.
C 14. It would be important to test a model before any program is
installed
      city wide.
C 31. Employees should be evaluated per project. The evaluation should
be
      driven by work not the passage of time such as 6 months or 12
months.
C 19. We are here to fix trucks not to win a popularity contest.
C 16. Lead workers should be involved in the performance evaluation.
C 37. There needs to be more dialogue, we need to create a process
which
      allows more freedom for the employees to do their jobs.
C 13. It would be nice if departments had lapel pins or something like
that
      which they could give to employees for jobs well done.
C 37. There should be a face to face meeting with supervisors and the
      employee to discuss the employees work. This should include the
      positive work of the employee as well as areas that the employee
needs
      to improve.
C 47. Performance evaluation should be a means to give encouragementas
well
      as criticism.
C 11. There should be a group of employees from the garage involved in
the
      evaluation process. Maybe the employees should be evaluated asa
group.
C 13. You don't get fired for a poor performance evaluation, you
getfired
      for poor work performance.
C  4. There is a problem with the retirement program. For example, a30
year
      employee who has done an outstanding job receives the same plaque
and
      letter as the 30 year employee who has been marginal for 30
years.
C  5. It might be a good idea to be evaluated by your co-workers or
even a
      committee of co-workers.
C 52. Peer evaluation is an interesting concept; however it might
detract
      from a cooperative spirit.
C 46. The performance evaluation should be an evaluation of the
workwhich
      the employee is assigned. There does not have to be a number
assigned.
C 51. It would be a good idea to survey customers (citizens) to learn
their
      perception of an employee's performance.
C 44. The reward should be retroactive, covering the period of the
      evaluation.
C 10. It may be necessary to have an impartial body review performance
      evaluation to establish some consistency throughout the
organization.
      Some departments score easy while others score hard.
C 17. Staff operations are different from line operations and the
      performance evaluation process should reflect that difference.
C 32. The interpretation of the trait in relation to the employee's
work
      should be explained on the form.
C 38. There should be a follow-up report to the participants in
thismeeting
      which addresses how the performance evaluation process has been
      revised based on these meetings with managers and employees.
C 14. Time should be assigned for employees to learn new methods and
      procedures. For example employees spent 6 months learning CAD but
now
      they are performing activities far beyond counterparts who have
not
      learned CAD.
C 16. Each individual in a work group might be required to complete a
      self-evaluation.
C 20. Managers can not instill motivation but they can help employees
      motivate themselves.
C 11. It is difficult to implement a program which is constant
throughout
      the organization. A review board made up of employee reps, union
reps,
      and management reps might be effective on the review board.



Appendix B: Model Performance Evaluation Statement of Purpose



Performance evaluation provides definite opportunity for the employer
and employee to review past performance and set new objectives.



Both parties need to agree



* on the period of time the evaluation will cover



* the critical measures of performance



* the resources necessary



* continuous communication



The employee needs



* confirmation of strengths and contributions



* specific areas of development



* quality or standards to be achieved



* an evaluator who has personal knowledge of employee's performance



The employer needs



* recommendations on how to improve productivity



* areas of employee's interest for development



* issues which impede employee effectiveness



* quality performance and service



Appendix C: Model Evaluation Forms



Supervisor's Performance Report Form
January through April
Employee's Name & Classification:
________________________________________
Supervisor's Name: _____________________________ Date:
__________________
Four Month Goals
Goal #1: _____________________________  Explanation:
_____________________



__________________________________________________________________________



Goal #2: _____________________________  Explanation:
_____________________



__________________________________________________________________________



Goal #3: _____________________________  Explanation:
_____________________



__________________________________________________________________________



Goal #4: _____________________________  Explanation:
_____________________



__________________________________________________________________________



NOTE: These responsibilities are of special interest during this period
and do not negate the other responsibilities of the job.
Four Month Assessment
Goal #1: Achieved?   Yes___   No___   Comments:
__________________________



__________________________________________________________________________



Goal #2: Achieved?   Yes___   No___   Comments:
__________________________



__________________________________________________________________________



Goal #3: Achieved?   Yes___   No___   Comments:
__________________________



__________________________________________________________________________



Goal #4: Achieved?   Yes___   No___   Comments:
__________________________



__________________________________________________________________________



Goal #5: Achieved?   Yes___   No___   Comments:
__________________________



__________________________________________________________________________



Overall Job Performance:   Acceptable___   Unacceptable___   Comments:
___
Supervisor's                                Employee's
Signature: _________________________________
Signature:__________________________________



Instructions for Supervisor's Performance Report Form Supervisor to fill
out form



At the beginning of the four month period



1. Fill in the employee's entire name and job classification.



2. Fill in the supervisor's name and the date the for is begun.



3. Use a one or two word title for each goal. Fill in explanation
section if clarification is required.



4. Employee, supervisor and department head receive a copy of
filled-out form.



At the completion of the four month period



1. Fill in the date this section is completed.



2. Indicate if each goal was achieved in a satisfactory manner; add
comments where required.



3. Indicate whether overall job performance was satisfactory or not.



4. Employee and supervisor sign where indicated.



5. Employee, supervisor and department head each receive a copy of
completed form.



6. Send a copy of the form to the Human Resources Department.



Employee's Recommendation Form
January through April
Employee's Name & Classification:
________________________________________
Supervisor's Name: ____________________________________ Date:
___________
Recommendations for Increased Personal Productivity
Recommendation #1: _______________________  Explanation:
_________________



__________________________________________________________________________



Recommendation #2: _______________________  Explanation:
_________________



__________________________________________________________________________



Recommendation #3: _______________________  Explanation:
_________________



__________________________________________________________________________



Recommendation #4: _______________________  Explanation:
_________________



__________________________________________________________________________



Four Month Accomplishment Report
Goal #2: Achieved?   Yes___   No___   Comments:
_________________________



__________________________________________________________________________



#1. Accomplished?   Yes___   No___   Comments:
__________________________



__________________________________________________________________________



#2. Accomplished?   Yes___   No___   Comments:
__________________________



__________________________________________________________________________



#3. Accomplished?   Yes___   No___   Comments:
__________________________



__________________________________________________________________________



#4. Accomplished?   Yes___   No___   Comments:
__________________________



__________________________________________________________________________



Other employee accomplishments during four month period:
________________



__________________________________________________________________________



Supervisor's                                 Employee's
Signature: _________________________________
Signature:__________________________________



Instructions for Employee's Recommendation Form Employee to fill out
form



At the beginning of the four month period



1. Fill in employee's entire name and job classification.



2. Fill in supervisor's name and the date the form is begun.



3. Use a one or two word title for each recommendation. Fill in the
explanation section if necessary.



4. Employee, supervisor and department head each receive a copy of
filled-out form.



At the completion of the four month period



1. Fill in the date this section is completed.



2. Indicate if each recommendation was accomplished or not.



3. Indicate other accomplishments not already addressed.



4. Employee and supervisor sign the form.



5. Employee, supervisor and department head receive a copy of the
completed form.



6. Send a copy of the form to the Human Resources Department.


FULL TEXT

Document ppnm000020010829dv3m00004


 Jitters mar march to 10,000. 

349 words
21 March 1999
Sunday Mail
SUNMAI
56
English
(c) 1999 Advertiser Newspapers Limited

 NEW YORK: Stocks closed lower in choppy trading after a late sell-off in computer stocks sparked by jitters over IBM's earnings spoilt the Dow Jones industrial average's third attempt in the past week to close above 10000. 

 The Dow slid 94 to 9903, while the technology-heavy Nasdaq tumbled 41 to 2421. The S&P 500 fell 17 to 1299. The Dow dropped as much as 97 points near the close after climbing as high as 10,085 shortly after the opening bell amid program activity tied to quarterly expirations of stock-index options and futures and options on stocks on the same day. Despite the late slide, the Dow did gain 27 points on the week. Decliners outpaced advancers by a ratio of 18 to 11 as 917 million shares changed hands. 

 IBM paced the Dow's late drop, dropping 5 per cent, or 91/4, to 1683/8. A revenue and profit shortfall warning from Morgan Stanley for IBM led PC makers down across the board. The computer giant's fall accounted for 40 points of the drop in the Dow, or almost half the index's loss for the day. 

 General Electric Co. led the Dow's early climb after an analyst said the stock of the second-largest company in the United States could reach $130 in 12 months, up from a previous price target of $110. 

 Alan Ackerman, senior vice president at Fahnestock & Co, said he was "disappointed" that the Dow failed in its third try to close above 10,000. 

 He said earnings jitters had never left the arena. Any earnings disappointments could be devastating when the earnings reporting season rolled in a few weeks. He also pointed out that the market's drive to push the Dow above 10,000 "is limited to a handful of stocks. The rally needs to broaden out". 

 The analyst said Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan's comments on Friday morning about derivatives "had no effect on the market at all." 

 (C) 1999 Advertiser Newspapers Limited. 

Document sunmai0020010911dv3l003ka




 Business/Financial Desk; Section C 
 America West and Union Continue Contract Talks 

 By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 
1,082 words
19 March 1999
The New York Times
NYTF
Page 2, Column 1
English
(c) 1999 New York Times Company

 America West Airlines and its flight attendants met in Washington for a second day of federally mediated talks yesterday in an attempt to reach an agreement before a strike deadline at midnight tonight. 

 The Association of Flight Attendants, the union that represents America West's 2,200 flight attendants, has said that if there is no settlement it will take action that could potentially cripple the airline, the country's ninth largest. 

 But instead of walking out in unison, as in a traditional strike, the flight attendants said they would stage brief walkouts or selectively pick America West flights as targets, flying some and refusing to fly others. 

 The strategy, which the union calls Chaos, for Creating Havoc Around Our System, is intended to exert maximum pain on the airline while still allowing most of the flight attendants -- who are among the lowest-paid airline employees -- to collect their paychecks. It has been used only once before, at Alaska Airlines in 1993. 

 Union members held a mock lottery at Phoenix Skyharbor International Airport on Wednesday, drawing the names of destinations that might be affected in case of a strike. (The union would not say what its first strike actions would be.) 

 But the mere threat of disruption has already hurt America West. ''We are booking people on other flights,'' said Larry Reder, the general manager of Global Wide Travel in Phoenix, where America West is based and where it flies 41 percent of the scheduled service at Skyharbor. ''However, all the other carriers are pretty much sold out. It is becoming a tight situation.'' 

 America West Holdings, the airline's parent, said yesterday that it was committed to averting a strike. ''We believe that a negotiated settlement remains possible,'' the company said in a statement. 

 But it has also said that it may  shut down the carrier in the event of a job action. And on Wednesday, it threatened to dismiss any attendant who participated in a Chaos action, a move that the union said was illegal. 

 A shutdown at America West, which flew about 4 percent of all domestic passengers last year, would not create as much disruption as last month's sickout by pilots at American Airlines, the nation's second-largest carrier. 

 But tourism officials in both Phoenix and Las Vegas, Nev., where America West is second in size only to Southwest Airlines, expressed concern. March is the peak tourist season in Arizona, and both spring break and Easter are approaching. 

 ''We should have literally thousands of people planning to travel here in the next few weeks,'' said Brent DeRaad, a spokesman for the Greater Phoenix Convention and Visitors Bureau. 

 The union and the airline have been trying to agree on a contract since 1994, when the flight attendants first voted to unionize. The union's members overwhelmingly rejected a previous tentative agreement in October 1997. 

 The main issue in the current negotiations is pay. The two sides are only $16.5 million apart, a sum that spread over a five-year contract amounts to $3.3 million a year. American West Holdings earned $108 million on a little more than $2 billion in sales in 1998. 

 But the airline has said that it cannot afford to pay more than its last offer and still remain competitive with its much larger rivals. 

 America West flight attendants start at a salary of $12,800 a year and rise to $22,000 after 12 years. Some earn more than the maximum because of overtime, but the average pay is about $20,000, according to the union, a reflection of the fact that about two-thirds of the attendants have been with the airline more than 12 years. 

 The company has offered to raise pay an average of 45 percent over five years and to increase the daily expense payment the flight attendants now receive when they are away from home by 46 percent, to $1.30 an hour at the beginning of the contract with additional increases to $1.75 an hour by the end. 

 In a letter sent to each attendant on Feb. 12, William A. Franke, America West's chairman and chief executive, said that the offer equaled 90 percent of what the rival Southwest Airlines pays its flight attendants. 

 The union disputed this and said that the company needed to put more money on the table. But heading into the latest round of negotiations on Wednesday, William McGlashen, president of the union local, said an offer that truly equaled 90 percent of Southwest's contract ''may form the basis for a settlement.'' 

 In an interview earlier this month, Mr. McGlashen said that the union did not feel that it would receive the company's best offer until just before the strike deadline. But he also said that after nearly five years of increasingly hostile relations with Mr. Franke, many of the flight attendants were so embittered that they might not endorse a contract until management ''felt some pain.'' 

 Shares of America West rose 75 cents yesterday, to $18.25 on the New York Stock Exchange. 


                         --------------------



AMR Shares Rise



FORT WORTH, March 18 (Bloomberg News) -- Shares of the AMR
Corporation, the parent of American Airlines, soared after an expanded
stock buyback program offset the effect of a first-quarter profitwarning related to a sickout by pilots, analysts said.



Shares of AMR rose $4.625, to $62.125, one day after the company
announced an additional $500 million buyback. The repurchase came as the
company projected earnings of 30 to 35 cents a share, about half the
average Wall Street forecast.



Thousands of American pilots called in sick over 10 days last month,
forcing cancellation of 6,600 flights, in a dispute over AMR's recent
purchase of Reno Air, a small carrier. AMR said the action cost it as
much as $225 million in pretax earnings, up from an earlier estimate of
$150 million.



The company said it would buy back an additional $500 million in
common stock, raising the program to a total of $2.6 billion in
repurchases since 1997. AMR expects to complete its current $500 million
buyback program by the end of the first quarter.


 Photo: Mary Metcalf, an America West flight attendant, and other pickets at Skyharbor Airport in Phoenix. Attendants have threatened strikes against selective flights if a contract isn't reached by midnight tonight. (Associated Press) 

Document nytf000020010828dv3j00fe1




Small Stock Focus
 Nasdaq's Continued Battle With `Crossed' Or `Locked' Markets Frustrates Traders 

 By Terzah Ewing 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
1,975 words
18 March 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
C1
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 A month ago, when Dell Computer put out disappointing earnings news, its shares had an unusual opening on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Trading screens displayed a bid, or buying price, for Dell of $77.94, even though screens showed that shares were being offered for sale at $77.50, or 44 cents less. 

 That is the reverse of the way it's supposed to work. 

 When the market functions properly, the best bid always is slightly lower than the best offer by a difference called the spread. But stocks that trade on Nasdaq increasingly are becoming "crossed," as in the Dell case, or "locked," with the best bid for a stock exactly the same as the best offer. 

 Crossed and locked markets frustrate traders and investors whose orders don't get executed promptly or at the proper price. "The problem is you have customers who think they'll be getting one price and will get another because of locked or crossed markets," says Bart Green, manager of Nasdaq trading at Edward Jones & Co. in St. Louis. 

 These trading anomalies are embarrassing to Nasdaq, which prides itself on providing uninterrupted trading during regular hours. Unlike its archrival, the New York Stock Exchange, Nasdaq rarely halts trading in its stocks, even the most volatile. 

 Nasdaq officials note that even though instances of crossed and locked markets have increased since last year, so have trading volumes. As a percentage of daily trades, crossed and locked markets haven't gone up, they argue. Meanwhile, market officials say they have taken steps to alleviate crossed and locked markets where they can. 

 Richard Ketchum, president of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Nasdaq's parent, notes that one such step, a proposal to force firms that have crossed or locked the market 10 minutes ahead of its 9:30 a.m. Eastern time opening to accept trades or change their offending quotes, will be reviewed by NASD's board a week from today. As for comparisons with the Big Board 's trading halts, he says, "The New York Stock Exchange halts trading for 30 minutes or more. Most locked and crossed markets last for 15 seconds or less." 

 While there isn't much sector-by-sector data on locked and crossed markets, Netmania is partly to blame. "The largest number of crossed and locked markets occur in the most volatile securities," Mr. Ketchum says, "and the most volatile securities have had some concentration in the Internet" sector. This has been especially true of Internet IPOs. 

 But such stocks aren't the only ones plagued with the problem, as the problems with Dell illustrated. Big tech stocks and others, particularly those that report news before the market opens, have locked or crossed as well. 

 Some traders say the frequency of locked and crossed markets recently stems from an unwillingness among dealers to talk to each other on the phone in the wake of the Justice Department's investigation into price-fixing two years ago. "Communication equals price discovery," says a Nasdaq trader with a large Wall Street firm. "If everyone was standing in a crowd, Dell wouldn't lock up." 

 Timothy Grazioso, manager of Nasdaq trading at Cantor Fitzgerald Securities, says dealers don't necessarily have to call each other on the phone to sort out pricing issues. "Communication of some type between dealers would certainly help," he says. "However, if market makers paid closer attention to electronic bids and offers and acted on them on a timely basis, it would also be easier" to avoid crossed and locked markets. 

 Other market participants blame so-called wholesale market-making firms, which handle a large chunk of retail, or small-investor, orders and have been excoriated for crossing markets in new Internet issues. One such firm, Knight/Trimark Group, was responsible for several instances of the crossed and locked market for Dell shares on the day the firm's earnings came out, according to data from ITG Inc., a broker that trades stock through electronic networks for institutional investors. 

 Knight's chief executive, Kenneth Pasternak, notes that it takes "two sides to cross a market" and says his firm's traders "try to be very cognizant of the rules and try to give the market time to interact with us." However, he acknowledges, "because we're the largest recipient of online order flow, we tend to be involved whenever there's something happening on this." 

 Mr. Pasternak says there is a communication gap between firms making markets in certain shares and the small investor wanting to buy or sell those shares. Firms like Knight, with its retail order flow, he says, are "the proxy for the public demand." On an IPO, he notes, "the underwriter might think it should open at between $9 and $30 (a share). We know public investors will pay $90. It takes a few minutes for (the resulting crossed market) to unwind." 

 Regardless of the cause, crossed and locked markets are becoming as common in the market as the volatility that fosters them. In January, a month of extreme volatility, markets in various Nasdaq stocks crossed or locked for more than one minute an average of 104 times a day, according to Nasdaq. Mr. Ketchum of NASD notes that average fell back to 74 times a day in February. But that is still well above the rate during volatile trading in August and more than three times a s frequent as January 1998's rate of 22 times a day. 

 In some instances, technical problems affecting the speed of the various computer systems that comprise Nasdaq can cross or lock a market by delaying new postings of quotes. And some market participants, particularly electronic trading networks (which trade many Internet stocks), have quicker systems than others. But this sort of locking or crossing usually unwinds itself in a matter of seconds as the system catches up with the order flow. 

 The longer-lasting instances of the problem occur when, for instance, a trader, knowing he has a large volume of buy orders to fill, notes that the best offer on the screen is for far fewer shares than he needs to buy. He tries to convey his urgent need to buy stock, and move the market up, by normal channels, such as Nasdaq's SelectNet messaging system. But if he gets no response, or if he finds the offer has already been taken by another buyer, he will enter a bid that is the same as or higher than the offer to signal his need to get the price moving and his orders filled. 

 Ordinarily, prospective sellers get the hint quickly and adjust their offers to unlock or uncross the market. But in fast markets, or where there is news or hype surrounding a hot initial public offering or an important stock, markets can stay locked or crossed for long periods of time. 

 Aside from the proposal the board will review next week, the NASD has other tools for dealing with crossed and locked markets. It can fine firms from $1,000 to $15,000 for locked or crossed markets. Last year Nasdaq approved a rule that stretches out the preopening trading period for IPOs, giving brokers as much as a half hour to find solid price information and sort out their customers' demand for the new shares. 

 Yesterday's Market Activity 

 Small-capitalization and Nasdaq stocks were modestly lower. The Russell 2000 index of small-capitalization stocks fell 0.74, or 0.19%, to 398.43, and the Nasdaq composite, at 2428.97, fell 10.30, or 0.42%. 

 Multex.com, taking advantage of a brief lull in Internet-stock IPO debuts, saw its shares more than double on Nasdaq in its first day of trading. The New York online investment research firm, trading under the symbol MLTX, sold three million shares Tuesday at $14 each, well above the anticipated price range of $9 to $11. Yesterday the stock touched 38 5/8 in early trading before falling back to close at 33 5/8. Multex.com provides investment research to individual and institutional investors via the Internet. Like most Internet start-ups, Multex.com hasn't turned a profit in its three-year operating history. 

 Shares of SeaMed, which is merging with Plexus, rallied 2 9/16, or 33%, to 10 1/4 . Late Tuesday, Plexus said it will issue 0.4 share for each SeaMed share, valuing the stock in a range of $12 to $15 each. SeaMed is a Redmond, Wash., designer of electronic instruments. 

 Plexus, of Neenah, Wis., fell 3 7/16, or 10%, to 29 3/4. 

 Insurance Auto Auctions improved 1 5/16, or 12%, to 12 9/16. The Schaumburg, Ill., company rejected Copart's unsolicited buyout offer because it wasn't in the best interest of shareholders. Insurance Auto provides automotive and specialty salvage services to insurance companies. Copart fell 1 1/4 to 17 1/4. 

 An unsolicited $15-a-share offer for Daniel Industries (NYSE) sent those shares up 2 13/16, or 23%, to 14 7/8. Daniel rejected the offer, which valued the company at about $266 million, as inadequate and has retained an investment banker to help it determine its future. Daniel is a Houston maker of fluid-measurement and flow-control products for the energy industry. 

 Dollar Thrifty Automotive (NYSE) gained 2 3/8, or 20%, to 14 9/16. The vehicle-rental company said first-quarter net income will top Wall Street views of six cents a share. Goldman Sachs also raised its rating on the company to market perform from underperform. 

 Shares of Tekelec fell 2 13/16, or 26%, to 7 15/16, hitting a 52-week low of 7 1/4 intraday. Late Tuesday, Tekelec said first-quarter results will come in below analysts' consensus estimate of 11 cents and below year-earlier results of 10 cents. Tekelec, Calabasas, Calif., cited lower revenue growth from its switching and diagnostic products. Tekelec develops and supplies diagnostic systems and network switching devices used on communication equipment and networks. 

 Novadigm shares improved 29/32, or 14%, to 7 17/32. The Mahwah, N.J., company reached an agreement for Wells Fargo to use its software to deliver advertising to Wells' networked automated teller machines. 

 Shares of Osicom Technologies jumped 1 3/16, or 5.6%, to 22 1/4. The Santa Monica, Calif., company's optical networking unit received a two-year, $20 million contract to supply its GigaMux dense wavelength division multiplexing systems. 

 Objective Systems Integrators rose 3/4, or 27%, to 3 1/2. The Folsom, Calif., software company and Unisys signed a global reseller agreement, with Unisys integrating and reselling Objective Systems' NetExpert framework products and applications. 

 New England Business Services (NYSE) fell 4 1/16, or 13%, to 26 3/16, hitting a 52-week low of 24 intraday; the company expects to earn 44 cents to 46 cents a share in its third quarter ending March 27, compared with the First Call consensus estimate of 50 cents. The Groton, Mass., maker of business forms cited lower-than-expected revenue from its Rapidforms unit for the profit warning. 

 Shares of Ciber (NYSE) added 3 3/8, or 18%, to 22 3/8. Merrill Lynch & Co. reinitiated coverage with a buy rating, and put a 12-month price target on the stock of 45. Ciber is an Englewood, Colo., provider of information-technology consulting services. 

 On Nasdaq, declining issues led advancers, 2,086 to 1,709, on national market volume of 799 million shares and overall volume of 854 million, compared with 912 million and 977 million, respectively, Tuesday. 

 -- Larry Bauman and Dunstan Prial 

Document j000000020010828dv3i007fg




 Small-Cap Stocks -4: Novadigm, Osicom Shares Rally 

286 words
17 March 1999
22:02
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Novadigm shares improved 29/32, or 13.7%, to 7 17/32. The Mahwah, N.J., company reached an agreement for Wells Fargo to use its software to deliver advertising to Wells' networked automatic teller machines. Novadigm provides distributed software management technology for client/server and Internet computing. 

 Shares of Osicom Technologies jumped 1 3/16, or 5.6%, to 22 1/4. The Santa Monica, Calif., company's optical networking unit received a two-year, $20 million contract to supply its GigaMux dense wavelength division multiplexing systems. Osicom designs broadband network products. 

 Objective Systems Integrators surged 3/4, or 27.3%, to 3 1/2. The company and Unisys signed a global reseller agreement, with Unisys integrating and reselling Objective Systems' NetExpert framework products and applications. Objective Systems is a Folsom, Calif., software concern. 

 New England Business Services (NYSE) fell 4 1/16, or 13.4%, to 26 3/16, hitting a 52-week low of 24 intraday. The company expects to earn between 44 cents to 46 cents a share in its third quarter ending March 27, versus the First Call consensus estimate of 50 cents. The Groton, Mass., maker of business forms cited lower-than-expected revenue from its Rapidforms unit for the profit warning. 

 Shares of Ciber Inc. (NYSE) added 3 3/8, or 17.8%, to 22 3/8. Merrill Lynch & Co. reinitiated coverage with a buy rating, and put a 12-month price target on the stock of $45. Ciber is an Englewood, Col., provider of information technology consulting services. 


   - By Larry Bauman; 201-938-5362
   - By Thomas Granahan; 201-938-5106



(END) Dow Jones Newswires 17-03-99



2202GMT


5039

Document dji0000020010826dv3h021di




 Small-Cap Stocks -4: Novadigm, Osicom Shares Rally 

287 words
17 March 1999
22:01
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Novadigm shares improved 29/32, or 13.7%, to 7 17/32. The Mahwah, N.J., company reached an agreement for Wells Fargo to use its software to deliver advertising to Wells' networked automatic teller machines. Novadigm provides distributed software management technology for client/server and Internet computing. 

 Shares of Osicom Technologies jumped 1 3/16, or 5.6%, to 22 1/4. The Santa Monica, Calif., company's optical networking unit received a two-year, $20 million contract to supply its GigaMux dense wavelength division multiplexing systems. Osicom designs broadband network products. 

 Objective Systems Integrators surged 3/4, or 27.3%, to 3 1/2. The company and Unisys signed a global reseller agreement, with Unisys integrating and reselling Objective Systems' NetExpert framework products and applications. Objective Systems is a Folsom, Calif., software concern. 

 New England Business Services (NYSE) fell 4 1/16, or 13.4%, to 26 3/16, hitting a 52-week low of 24 intraday. The company expects to earn between 44 cents to 46 cents a share in its third quarter ending March 27, versus the First Call consensus estimate of 50 cents. The Groton, Mass., maker of business forms cited lower-than-expected revenue from its Rapidforms unit for the profit warning. 

 Shares of Ciber Inc. (NYSE) added 3 3/8, or 17.8%, to 22 3/8. Merrill Lynch & Co. reinitiated coverage with a buy rating, and put a 12-month price target on the stock of $45. Ciber is an Englewood, Col., provider of information technology consulting services. 


   - By Larry Bauman; 201-938-5362
   - By Thomas Granahan; 201-938-5106



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  03-17-99



05:01 PM


Document dj00000020010827dv3h05lj2




Investment
Bulls look unbeatable in the race for 10,000

ALAN DEANS   
670 words
15 March 1999
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
Late
45
English
Copyright 1999. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.   

WALL STREET - GLOBAL MARKETS

Investors were treating Friday's action like the first play in the Wall Street Super Bowl.

The bears were camped behind their own goal line facing a formidable bulls team which has not been beaten for six years. It is only a matter of time before the bears buckle and the score turns through 10,000.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed slightly weaker at 9876.4 points when the first attempt at reaching five digits failed, but today sees the second play and there will be a third if needed tomorrow.

The spoiler on Friday was Caterpillar, which revealed that orders for its earth-moving machinery were slack and that profits would be down. IBM was soft also, thanks to a profit warning from the Nasdaq-listed Oracle which could have implications for Big Blue.

But, like any great game of football, the offence has its stars. Last week they were the oil stocks, pumped up by the promise of production cuts by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries, and the financial sector, where giants such as American Express and J P Morgan were the subject of takeover speculation.

On the sidelines was the bulls' cheer squad - the internet stocks. Their performance does not count because they are not part of the Dow, but many have rebounded to be testing recent record highs.

Making the match more interesting are the predictions of several old-time bulls, who say the drive is tired. Salomon Smith Barney's Mr Marshall Acuff has warned several times that the market has no clear leadership, and that its internals are weak. He believes that any run through 10,000 will only predate a later correction.

Seated beside him at one stage was Morgan Stanley's Mr Byron Wien, who had been urging people to take profits because of the run-up in long-term US Treasury bonds. But he has switched sides.

"I'm feeling a little dumb," he confessed after telling investors that earnings would be better than he had thought. "All that talk last [northern] fall about how the pace of business was slowing looks foolish now."

Barron's added to this soup over the weekend with quotes from two other market gurus, Deutsche Bank's Dr Ed Yardeni and Goldman Sachs' Ms Abby Joseph Cohen.

Dr Yardeni says the present speculative bubble could carry the Dow through 11,000 this northern summer before the millennium bug and other problems push it down 30 per cent by year's end.

Ms Cohen is as upbeat as ever, saying that blue-chip companies will have higher earnings this year and next. "The economy is in absolutely terrific condition, and notwithstanding the huge rise in stock prices since September, stock prices should continue to rise in the months ahead," she said.

Another prominent bull, Morgan Stanley's Mr Peter Canelo, has come out contradicting market wisdom that bonds will rally during the rest of the year and outperform stocks. He is urging investors to reweight their portfolios to put another 5 per cent in stocks, saying that his forecasts are for profits to grow this year by 10 per cent.

Many investors have come to this conclusion already. Large amounts of money have been pouring back into equity funds this month, according to research group Trim Tabs.

While some of this will be from tax refunds, some will also be coming from the vast sums that were switched last year into bond and cash funds in the wake of August's sharemarket rout.

Trim Tabs reported last Wednesday that $US8.9 billion ($14 billion) had been pumped into equity funds on the preceding Friday and Monday, the biggest such inflow since June. Two-thirds was directed towards US funds, but a high $US2.9 billion went into international stocks in a week when the International Monetary Fund announced an agreement with Brazil to help restore its shaky economy.

Document AFNR000020111227dv3f00i8j


 Pilot Sickout to Affect American Airline's Growth 

 Terry Maxon 
533 words
13 March 1999
KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Dallas Morning News - Texas
KRTBN
English
Copyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)

 The pilot sickout that forced the cancellation of thousands of flights last month has also prompted American Airlines Inc. management to pare its growth plans for this year. 

 American's president, Donald J. Carty, told employees in a hotline message Thursday evening that the losses from the sickout have forced the airline to reduce its capital spending. 

 American officials have estimated that the Feb. 6-16 sickout cost the company more than $150 million. 

 Mr. Carty told employees the job action will reduce profit-sharing in 1999 and has prompted the Fort Worth-based airline to reduce its schedule this summer so that it won't have to rely on pilots flying extra hours to cover all scheduled trips. 

 "The third major consequence relates to the unhappy fact that when you take the kind of financial hit that we've taken, there is inevitably less capital available to invest in things like new aircraft and facilities," Mr. Carty said. "...While we're going to continue to grow, that growth is going to occur at a somewhat more cautious pace than we originally planned." 

 American spokeswoman Andrea Rader said Friday that management hasn't decided on any specific actions beyond its previously announced decision to reduce its 6 percent expansion this year to around 4 percent. 

 American already has announced plans to build a $1 billion terminal at Kennedy International Airport in New York City. Mr. Carty said in late January before the sickout that he wanted to begin work on new Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport facilities, including terminal space for the American Eagle commuter flights, as soon as a controversy over expanded service at Dallas Love Field was settled. 

 American has 45 airplanes on order this year, with plans to park 16 older airplanes. Mr. Carty has said the airline could speed up retirement of more older aircraft, such as its Boeing 727s and McDonnell Douglas DC-10s, if necessary. 

 Many pilots at one time, more than 2,400 of the airline's 9,300 pilots called in sick starting Feb. 6 to express unhappiness about American's purchase of Reno Air Inc. 

 The union, which said it wasn't behind the sickout, said the airline violated its contract with the union by taking over another airline whose pilots were not part of the American seniority list. The federal judge held the union in contempt for not aggressively trying to end the sickout after the restraining order. 

 In his hotline message, Mr. Carty issued his warning of spending cuts even as he was touting the more than $300 million in 1998 profit-sharing checks that will be distributed Monday. 

 American will distribute $341 million to its more than 95,000 employees worldwide and $89.9 million in Dallas-Fort Worth. 

 Because of the sickout, "our profitability for 1999 has been damaged," Mr. Carty said. "That doesn't mean we're necessarily going to lose money this year, or that as a result there won't be any profit sharing next year. But it does mean we've definitely got a lot of ground to make up during the rest of the year." 

Document krtbn00020010828dv3d00g68


 Ingram Micro Spares Memphis, Tenn.-Area as It Cuts 1,400 Jobs 

581 words
12 March 1999
KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Commercial Appeal - Memphis, Tennessee
KRTBN
English
Copyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)

 Ingram Micro Inc., is cutting 1,400 jobs, or 10 percent of its workforce, but the company's Memphis area operations will not be affected, officials of the Santa Ana, Calif.-based firm said Thursday. 

 Executives also warned that first-quarter profits will be less than analyst estimates because of price cutting in the personal computer market. Ingram Micro distributes personal computers. 

 Stock in the company tumbled to an all-time low of $17.121/2 before rebounding to close at $19.75, up $1.121/2 for the day in New York Stock Exchange composite trading of more than 1.7 million shares. 

 Ingram Micro said it expects cost savings from worldwide job cuts to its 14,000-member workforce in the second quarter. The company has been cutting jobs and working to reduce costs in its operations outside the United States since late last year. 

 But no cuts will be made in Memphis nor will expansion plans here be affected, said Tony Wilde, program manager at the company facility in Memphis. 

 With 400 employees, Ingram Micro can produce about 4,000 personal computers a day in the Memphis plant but has plans to increase that. 

 In April, the company will start to build three production lines in part of a 100,000square-foot building next to its Memphis operation. The lines should be up and running by the end of May, adding 40 percent to factory capacity, Wilde said last month. 

 More lines will be added by the end of the year. By then, production capacity should reach 10,000 units a day, and the company should have added 200 to 250 jobs, Wilde said. 

 None of those plans will be affected by the lagging earnings or job cutbacks, which will be in corporate operations and overseas, Wilde said. 

 Ingram Micro also has a distribution facility in Millington with about 800 employees. 

 Ingram Micro will cut 500 jobs this week in the United States. The rest of the firings, most of them overseas, will come during the next six months. 

 The company plans to close a plant in Fremont, Calif., near San Francisco, which packages and ships the pieces of a customer's order -- the printer, disk drive and monitor, for example. It also changed its sales and marketing to focus more on the Internet and electronic ordering. 

 The company expects profit of $40 million to $45 million, or 27 cents to 30 cents a share before costs related to the firings. That's less than the 42cent average estimate from First Call Corp. 

 Ingram Micro and other computer distributors are cutting prices to hold onto customers as sales growth slows. The company blamed corporate customers foregoing computer purchases as they concentrate on fixing the Year 2000 computer bug for its second consecutive profit warning. 

 Recently, distributors' profits have been hurt by the popularity of computers costing less than $1,000, which carry narrower profit margins. 

 The low-cost PC trend intensified in January, with 20 percent of all machines sold at U.S. retail outlets going for less than $600, according to ZD Market Intelligence. A year earlier, fewer than 1 percent of PCs sold for less than $600. 

 Also, some customers may be putting off purchases as they assess the impact of the Year 2000 glitch. The bug may cause some computers to malfunction if they read 2000 as 1900. 

 From Staff and Wire Reports 

Document krtbn00020010828dv3c00frq




 Dow ends down, earnings concerns trip up 10,000 run. 

 By Holly Rosenkrantz 
683 words
12 March 1999
22:35
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, March 12 (Reuters) - The Dow Jones industrial average closed weaker on Friday, as concerns about earnings tripped up the world's most widely watched stock index in its run toward the historic 10,000 milestone. 

 The Dow closed down 21.09 points, or 0.21 percent, at 9,876.35. The index was up 140.27 from last Friday. 

 In the broader market, declining issues led advances 1,540 to 1,381 on volume of 815 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 It flirted for part of the day with the 10,000 level, rising as high as 9,958.77, but wound up succumbing to worries about negative earnings announcements from equipment maker Caterpillar Inc. and technology group Oracle Corp. 

 "Caterpillar and Oracle brought back a dose of reality to the market," Alan Skrainka, chief market strategist at Edward Jones, said. "It was too much for the market to overcome." 

 The technology-laden Nasdaq Composite index fell sharply, ending down 30.72 points, or 1.27 percent, at 2,381.53. For the week, it gained 44.42. 

 And the Standard & Poor's 500 index, which has risen with the Dow into record territory this past week, shed 3.09 points, or 0.24 percent, to 1,294.59. The index gained 19.12 from last Friday. 

 Declining stocks outpaced gains on both the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq. 

 "It's the same thing as yesterday, everyone got all freaked out and nobody wants to buy at the top of the ticket," Mara Glassel, vice president of Prudential Securities Equity Focus Group, said. 

 Earnings concerns were a key reason why investors were afraid of buying on Friday, analysts said. 

 This roadblock in the Dow's run to 10,000 came with a profit warning early in the day from heavy equipment maker Caterpillar, a component in the blue-chip average. 

 Caterpillar said its first-quarter earnings would fall below Wall Street's expectations, and cited economic conditions in Latin America for its troubles. It ended down 5-15/16 at 44-11/16 on the NYSE, and posted the day's sharpest drop of the 30 stocks in the Dow. 

 "Caterpillar shows that global problems are still a major issue for earnings," Glassel said. 

 Adding to the earnings woes was Oracle's fiscal third-quarter results, which were reported shortly after the market closed on Thursday. 

 The database software group reported profits in line with forecasts, but its weaker-than-expected revenue growth sent its shares tumbling and pressured the technology group. Oracle shares ended down 8-5/16 at 28-9/16. 

 "It shows that there is still some trouble in the tech sector," Skrainka said. 

 Amid these earnings pressures, an upbeat report about U.S. inflation had little impact. 

 The government reported that February's Producer Price Index fell 0.4 percent, much more than expected, showing that inflation remains under control despite the strength in the U.S. economy. 

 Oil shares, which provided much of the muscle in the Dow's surge this week, were mixed after big oil-producing countries agreed to trim output. 

 The American Stock Exchange oil index gained 0.19 percent, but the Dow's oil-related components, Chevron Corp. and Exxon Corp., slipped 3/8 and 13/16, respectively, to 84-11/16 and 74. 

 Drug store chain Rite Aid Corp. tumbled 14-7/16 to close at a new 52-week low of 22-9/16 after warning that fourth-quarter earnings will fall well below Wall Street expectations. 

 The American Stock Exchange index fell 0.44 points to 721.21. 

 The NYSE Composite index of all listed common stocks was down 0.31, at 611.54, a day after hitting a new high of 611.67. The average share was down 1 cent. 

 The Wilshire Associates Equity Index - the market value of NYSE, American and Nasdaq issues - was 11,760.387, down 37.618, or 0.32 percent. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010907dv3c04f1c




 Dow slips in late trading, stays below 10,000. 

409 words
12 March 1999
21:28
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, March 12 (Reuters) - Stocks slid modestly on Friday and the Dow Jones industrial average failed to reach the magical 10,000 mark that many market watchers had expected it to hit after several strong sessions. 

 Based on early, unofficial data, the Dow, which had closed at a record high on Thursday, fell 21.09 points, or 0.21 percent, to 9,876.35 after an early rally failed to keep its momentum. 

 The index was weighed down by worries about profits at Dow component Caterpillar Corp. and software maker Oracle Corp. 

 In the broader market, declining issues edged advancers 15 to 14 on active volume of 821 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 The Standard & Poor's 500 index, which also set a new high Thursday, slipped 3.09 points, or 0.24 percent, to 1,294.59. 

 The technology-laced Nasdaq composite index fell 30.71 points, or 1.27 percent, to 2,381.54. 

 The Dow had surged 61 points at the open to a record 9,958.77 but then fell back, although it remained in positive territory for most of the day before slipping just before the close. 

 "We're taking a little bit of a breather here," said Guy Truicko, portfolio manager at Unity Management in Lake Success, N.Y. 

 Graham Tanaka, president of Tanaka Capital Management, said gains must spread to smaller stocks before the market is strong enough to break solidly through the 10,000 level. 

 "In the absence of any macro political and economic news, I think the Dow will tread water" until small-capitalisation shares move higher, he said. 

 The Dow was slowed in its run to 10,000 in part by a profit warning from Caterpillar Inc., the heavy equipment maker. The company said first-quarter earnings would fall 50 percent below Wall Street forecasts. The shares closed 5-15/16 lower at 44-11/16. 

 Oracle dragged on technology issues as analysts downgraded the stock amid concern about revenue growth. Oracle, the most active issue on the Nasdaq market, was off 8-5/16 at 28-9/16. 

 More concern about earnings flared when drug store chain Rite Aid Corp. forecast fiscal fourth-quarter earnings well below analysts' expectations. Its shares closed off 14-7/16 at 22-9/16 on the NYSE, where they were the most active issue. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010907dv3c04erc




 Dow goes negative after flirting with 10,000. 

100 words
12 March 1999
15:42
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

     Dow goes negative after opening rise flirts with 10,000 

 mark. Dow off 8 at 9889. Gauge weighed by Caterpillar's Q1 

profit warning, IBM off. Dow seen catching breath after recent 

 strong runs. Techs weak, with Nasdaq off 34 at 2378. U.S. 

 wholesale inflation drops 0.4 pct in February. S&P off 2 at 

 1295. Long bond up 8/32, yield 5.55 pct. 


   NASDAQ	     S&P 500	    RUSSELL 2000	
RITE AID SEES Q4 RESULTS BELOW ESTIMATES		
CATERPILLAR DROPS AFTER Q1 PROFIT WARNING		  .



(C) Reuters Limited 1999.


Document lba0000020010907dv3c04cl9




 Dow ends down after nearing 10,000, dollar mixed. 

652 words
12 March 1999
23:41
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, March 12 (Reuters) - The Dow Jones industrial average closed weaker on Friday, as concerns about earnings tripped up the world's most widely watched stock index in its run toward the historic 10,000 milestone. 

 The dollar finished the week mixed and oil prices were higher. 

 The Dow closed down 21.09 points, or 0.21 percent, at 9876.35. The index was up 140.27 from last Friday. 

 In the broader market, declining issues led advances 1,540 to 1,381 on volume of 815 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 The U.S. blue-chip gauge flirted for part of the day with the 10,000 level, rising as high as 9958.77. But it wound up succumbing to worries about negative earnings announcements from equipment maker Caterpillar Inc. and technology group Oracle Corp. 

 The technology-laden Nasdaq Composite index fell sharply, ending down 30.72 points, or 1.27 percent, at 2381.53. For the week, it gained 44.42. 

 And the Standard & Poor's 500 index, which has risen with the Dow into record territory this past week, shed 3.09 points, or 0.24 percent, to 1294.59. The index gained 19.12 from last Friday. 

 Declining stocks outpaced gains on both the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq. 

 The roadblock in the Dow's run to 10,000 came with a profit warning early Friday from heavy equipment maker Caterpillar, a component in the blue-chip average. 

 Caterpillar said its first-quarter earnings would fall below Wall Street's expectations, and cited economic conditions in Latin America for its troubles. It ended down $5.94 at $44.69 on the NYSE, and posted the day's sharpest drop of the 30 stocks in the Dow. 

 Adding to the earnings woes was Oracle's fiscal third-quarter results, which were reported shortly after the market closed on Thursday. 

 The database software group reported profits in line with forecasts, but its weaker-than-expected revenue growth sent its shares tumbling and pressured the technology group. Oracle shares ended down $8.31 at $28.56. 

 With such corporate news for investors to consider, an upbeat report about U.S. inflation had little impact on stock prices. 

 But U.S. Treasury bond rose as the market applauded the February wholesale price report that contained not a flicker of inflation. The benchmark 30-year Treasury bond was up 12/32, yielding 5.54 percent, lowering its yield from 5.56 percent on Thursday. 

 The dollar climbed against the euro as investors began to rethink the notion that the departure on Thursday of Germany's finance minister would mean a major shift in Europe's monetary policy. 

 The dollar landed roughly midway between its levels before and after the announcement of a new finance minister, rising to $1.0915 per euro from $1.1038 at Thursday's close. 

 The U.S. currency fell to 118.75 Japanese yen from 119.16, and was nearly unchanged against the Canadian dollar, falling slightly to C$1.5238 from C$1.5240. 

 Crude futures for April delivery broke through $15 a barrel for the first time in five months after top oil producers meeting in The Hague, Netherlands, announced a deal to cut production by more than two million barrels per day, about 3 percent of the daily world output. 

 April futures ended Friday's session at $14.49 a barrel, up 18 cents, after hitting a high of $15.11. 

 Overseas, London's FTSE 100 index closed 53.5 points lower at 6282.2, having hit an all-time, intraday peak of 6365.4 in the first hour of trade. Tokyo's benchmark Nikkei 225 average finished down 13.28 points, or 0.09 percent, at 15,488.86. 

 ((New York newsroom, 212 859-1680)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010907dv3c02xpn




 N.Y. Stocks: Gains for Oil Stocks Lead Blue Chips Higher 

Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition Roundup
828 words
10 March 1999
19:32
Dow Jones Asian Equities Report
AER
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Blue-chip stocks advanced Wednesday, lifted by a
strong performance by the oil sector.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 51 to 9745 in midafternoon
trading. DuPont helped support the blue-chip average, rising 3 13/16
to 57 3/8 after Deutsche Bank upgra ded its rating on the stock to
'accumulate" from "hold."
The industrials were also helped by a strong energy sector, after
reports from the Middle East pointing to more production cutbacks by
oil-producing nations. Chevron rose 3 1/2 to 83 7/16 while Exxon climbed
2 7/8 to 72 13/16. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained
2 to 1281.90 Wednesday and the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index
jumped 1.50 to 604.40.
   Advancing issues led declining issues 1,541 to 1,300 on the Big
Board, as volume reached 523 million shares.


 However, the Nasdaq Composite Index shed 1.50 to 2391.40. 

 Technology shares, which have been plagued in recent weeks by a number of reports about a slowdown in the personal-computer industry, put in a mixed performance amid nervousness about the impact on first-quarter profits. 


Computer Associates International slid 5 11/16, or about 15%, to 34
5/16. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter cut its investment rating on the
Islandia, N.Y., computer-software designer to "neutr al" from
"outperform." In a research note, analyst Chuck Phillips said he reduced
his rating because of concerns about increasing competition, softness in
near-term demand and a potential peaking of margins. But semiconductor
shares rebounded smartly from the battering suffered Tuesday on profit
jitters.
   Bellwether Intel, which was hammered as rumors circulated that the
company was preparing to issue a warning, recovered 2 1/8 to 117 7/16.
The Philadelphia Stock Exchange semiconductor index rose 3.5 0 to
375.70.



And Internet stocks posted sharp gains after Merrill Lynch & Co.'s new
Internet analyst, Henry Blodget, assumed coverage of America Online,
Yahoo! and Amazon.com with long-term "buy" ratings. Shares of AOL rose 1
11/16 to 91 13/16, while Yahoo! gained 5 3/16 to 172 1/2. Amazon.com
surged 5 3/4 to 135 11/16.



Lycos soared 12 1/2 to 108 3/4, as prospects grew that its planned
merger with USA Networks could be overtaken by another suitor. An
article in The Wall Street Journal reported that David Wetherell, the
chief executive of CMGI, which has a 20% stake in Lycos, said he is
exploring other options for Lycos, including CMGI's outright purchase of
the Waltham, Mass., Internet portal. With the help of Morgan Stanley
Dean Witter, Mr. Wetherell is also seeking other Internet companies that
might be interested in Lycos. Shares of CMGI slipped 3 5/8 to 190 13/16
while USA Networks inched down 11/16 to 37.



Financial stocks gained ground, as speculation about the need for
further consolidation among international banks was fueled by news of a
hostile bid by France's BNP for Societe Generale and Paribas, valued at
an estimated $37 billion. If successful, the move would create the
world's biggest banking group, with assets of more than $1 trillion.
   Household International rose 3 7/16 to 45 1/4 after the Prospect
Heights, Ill., company said its board approved a $2 billion
common-stock repurchase program. At current prices, $2 billion would
buy about 48 million shares, or nearly 10% of t he company's common
stock outstanding. Household, the country's largest consumer finance
company, also said it increased its quarterly dividend 13%, to 17
cents a share from 15 cents. Century Telephone Enterprises gained 3
13/16 to 67 1/4.
Standard & Poor's Financial Information Services said that the Monroe,
La., telephone-service provider, is replacing Rubbermaid in the S&P 500.
Rubbermaid, a Wooster, Ohio, maker of plastic housewares and toys,
agreed in October to be acquired by Newell in a sto ck deal valued at
about $5.1 billion.
   Meanwhile, USG rose 1 7/16 to 47 7/16 on news that the Chicago
building-materials company will replace Century in the S&P SmallCap
600. Northern Telecom gained 2 13/16 to 60 13/16 after the Canadian
telecommunication company said it has been selected by AT&T as a
"potential supplier" for advanced voice-switching systems that will
support the evolution of the AT&T Worldwide Intelligent Network. The
potential value of the agreement wasn't disclosed. AT&T, based in New
York, fell 2 5/16 to 83 1/4.



SunGard Data Systems slipped 11/16 to 39 1/4. The Wayne, Penn.,
computer-services and software company said that it agreed



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  10-03-99



1932GMT


20716 4116 5042

Document aer0000020010824dv3a008gq




 West Virginia newspapers speak 

1,380 words
10 March 1999
17:08
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 1999.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.

 A roundup of editorial comment from across West Virginia for the week ending March 7. 

 The Herald-Dispatch: 

 How much is the life of a child worth? 

 Nico Williams, an 8-year-old Huntington boy, was killed Sept. 11 after he got off a van operated by the Boys' and Girls' Club of Huntington. He was crossing the street in front of the van when he was struck and killed by a car. The van lacked the signs and flashing lights used on school buses. 

 Attempting to prevent similar future tragedies, Delegate Arley Johnson, D-Cabell, introduced a bill that would require all passenger vans operated by non-profit agencies, businesses and other entities to have warning lights and signs. 

 Despite strong support from the county's legislative delegation, the bill seems destined to die in committee. That's outrageous. 

 Reportedly, some non-profits have complained to legislators that they can't afford the safety measures required. That's even more outrageous. 

 Lawmakers have been told the cost could be $3,000 for each vehicle. That sounds high. Even if it's an accurate figure, are legislators saying the life of a child isn't worth $3,000? 

 Most state lawmakers have children of their own. Many have grandchildren. Would they spend $3,000 to save the life of their child or grandchild? Of course, they would. Well, what about other people's children? 

 The Legislature adjourns March 13, but there's still time for lawmakers to enact this commonsense, life-saving bill. 

 Charleston Daily Mail: 

 In the year 2000, the federal government will extract $133 billion more in Social Security taxes from working Americans than it needs to fund Social Security benefits. 

 That's a staggering sum - the result of monumentally dishonest policy. 

 Taking $133 billion from working Americans in the name of Social Security and spending the money on other things is one of the biggest lies ever told. Members of Congress are consciously gouging the working man, an unconscionable thing to do - especially to minimum-wage workers. 

 The two parties are currently engaged in an argument over how to use the surplus to reposition Social Security for the day when it will show not a huge surplus but a yawning deficit. 

 President Clinton, for all his posturing about "saving" the program, proposes to use only 58 percent of the surplus for that effort. He wants to spend the rest of the moolah on federally subsidized personal retirement accounts, defense and social programs. 

 Republicans in the House and Senate recently agreed to offer a different proposal: They would earmark 100 percent of the surplus in the Social Security "trust fund" for Social Security itself. 

 In fact, the GOP proposes to set aside the $1.8 trillion surplus expected in the trust fund over the next 10 years. That money could be used either to reduce the national debt or to buttress Social Security and Medicare if those programs are overhauled. 

 The Republican approach is more honest. 

 The Social Security tax is the most regressive tax Congress imposes. Taking 12.4 percent of the paycheck of a minimum-wage worker is a cold thing to do. 

 The only way to excuse the continuation of that policy, which harms the poor, is to use all the money to reduce the national debt. 

 That would help all Americans economically, and it's about time the federal government did that. 

 The Charleston Gazette: 

 West Virginia is exporting death. And the Legislature, rather than attempting to stop this export, is considering legislation that will prevent counties or cities from doing their part to reduce it. 

 Since Virginia enacted its one-gun-a-month purchase limit in 1993, drug-dealing gun-runners have been turning West Virginia into a one-stop supermarket. 

 In 1993, federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms surveys found 257 out-of-state felonies committed with guns purchased in West Virginia. By 1998, that number had leaped to 605. 

 These guns are legally purchased, but many are part of multiple sales. A drug dealer will peddle his dope in West Virginia, use the profits to purchase a trunkload of guns, then take them to New York or other areas with strict gun control laws and sell them to street gangs for a huge profit. 

 Then the dealer will invest his gun profits in more drugs, cheaper in urban areas than in West Virginia, to sell on his return. It's a profitable but deadly trade. 

 A year of bloody drug murders convinced Charleston to pass an ordinance similar to Virginia's law. Law-abiding gun owners don't need more than one new pistol per month (and if they do, exemptions can be granted by Charleston's police chief). 

 The ordinance worked. Drug traffic and gun traffic were reduced. Charleston became a safer city. 

 Now the Legislature, blindly loyal to the gun lobby, wants to restrict the ability of other cities and counties to do the same thing. Charleston's ordinance would be grandfathered in, and Huntington temporarily was granted the right to enact gun control legislation. But powerful gun lobbyists put pressure on lawmakers, and they timidly capitulated. The House Judiciary Committee recalled the bill and removed Huntington's exemption. Now, every city and county except Charleston will be forbidden to act against concealed weapons. 

 This is insane. The Legislature should be passing a statewide one-gun-a-month law, not prohibiting cities from protecting their citizens. 

 Apparently legislators would rather cater to the gun lobby and gun traffickers than take a progressive step that would end West Virginia's role as a pistol supermarket. 

 Clarksburg Exponent-Telegram: 

 It is one of the growing pains of a rapidly expanding television industry. For many, there is no easy way to get television service. They live out in the rural areas of the state and cannot pick up local stations and are unable to subscribe to cable service. Their only alternative is to sign up for satellite dish service. 

 That's where it gets complicated. The dish companies have been providing customers with distant network affiliates so that they can watch CBS, NBC, ABC or Fox programming. For instance, if someone lived in a rural part of Lewis County, that person might be watching a CBS affiliate from, say, Chicago or Philadelphia. 

 But local stations nationwide have been fighting the dish companies because providing network programming means many customers don't watch the local stations. As the result of a lawsuit, many dish companies are no longer providing CBS and Fox stations on their lineups. Still more companies are considering cutting out all the broadcast networks to avoid future lawsuits. The only option for many is to hook up an external antenna on their home in order to pull in the local stations. But for many in this mountainous state, the signals are substandard or non-existent. 

 Sen. Jay Rockefeller has been swamped with complaints from constituents. He says he is backing a bill by Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., which would restore the networks to the satellite services until the year 2002. 

 Rockefeller is aware of all the issues involved. First, the local television stations need to have as many viewers as possible in order to survive in a competitive market. If nobody's watching, the ratings drop and they can't charge as much for commercials. 

 Second, the dish companies want to provide as complete a service as possible to their customers. They're in business to please the viewers and viewers want "ER" just as much as they want HBO. 

 Third, there is the dish customer. "You can't hold the consumer hostage," said Rockefeller. "Consumers didn't do anything wrong. They deserve good television signals. They paid for good television signals." 

 That is really the heart of the issue. As much as it might hurt local television, the consumers should be able to expect network service on their satellite dishes. They should not have to be penalized because of a turf battle between broadcasters and dish providers. 

 We hope the McCain bill passes and that in the next few years some kind of compromise can be worked out. And whatever solution is found, the consumer should be allowed more, not fewer, choices. 

Rush

Document aprs000020010829dv3a02je2




 U.S. Shares In London Mixed; Advanced Micro Down, Techs Up 

277 words
9 March 1999
12:19
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 LONDON (Dow Jones)--U.S. shares are mixed in London-based trading Tuesday as high-technology stocks rise, with the exception of Advanced Micro Devices, which is down after the chip maker warned of a first-quarter loss. 

 At 1157 GMT, the S&P 500 March futures contract was down 1.0 points at 1282.50 and U.S. 30-year treasury bonds were down 15/32 at 94.20 with a yield of 5.618%. 

 A market maker at Madoff Securities said he expects the Dow Jones Industrial Average to open slightly higher later in the session. 

 "Some of the tech stocks are looking firmer. But AMD is down on its profit warning after the close yesterday," the market maker said. 

 In London trading, AMD was down $2.5 at $16.5, while Intel rose $3/8 to $120, extending gains made Monday in New York. "AMD's misfortunes may be a small plus for Intel," the market maker said. 

 The DJIA fell 8.47 points, or 0.09%, to close at 9727.61 Monday. 

 In New York Monday, high-technology stocks resumed their role as market leaders, as shares of Intel moved higher, but the boisterous enthusiasm for the powerful blue-chip rally of last week subsided, leaving market averages mixed Monday. 

 Intel shot up 5 to 119 5/8 on Nasdaq, after the chip maker reached a settlement with the federal government over the disposition of its antitrust litigation. 

 -By Nicole Heidemann; 44-171-832-9069; nicole.heidemann@cor.dowjones.com 

 (END) DOW JONES NEWS  03-09-99 

 07:19 AM 

Document dj00000020010827dv3905ab9




 =Repeat: DJ Market Talk: Trader Unwillingness ... 

1,153 words
9 March 1999
20:31
Capital Markets Report
CM
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 (Dow Jones Market Talk, a new feature, offers up-to-the-minute spin on major news and events impacting the fixed-income and foreign exchange markets. Comments, please, to talk@dowjones.com or 201 938-2085.) 

 1530 (Dow Jones) Market talk will resume at 8 a.m. EST. 

 1519 (Dow Jones) Loss of 10 ticks at end of bond futures session illustration of trader unwillingness to carry home longs. Technician says important for market to follow through and get above Friday's high of 121-20 in early trade Wed. in order to maintain positive tone. (CN) 

 1455 (Dow Jones) 30-year bond rally slowing as issue breaks out of recent range. 30-year yield currently 5.53%, surpassing Friday's low yield of 5.54% to trade at lowest level since Feb. 25. (JM) 

 1443 (Dow Jones) Treasurys surge to session highs as shorts cover and new buying emerges. 30-Year up 24/32. Two days of neutral Greenspan comments seen giving "bit of a green light" to investing at current levels. (JM) 

 1440 (Dow Jones) Richmond Fed's Broaddus, a non-voter, says economy will slow and may make soft landing. He voiced similar views in late Feb., before release of strong Feb. NAPM and payrolls data. (MP) 

 1440 (Dow Jones) Mixed reading on sales with LJR Redbook up 0.1% in first week of March. That beat forecasts, but retailers in some areas reported a slowing in spring seasonal business while poor weather affected sales in the midwest and northeast (BB). 

 1434 (Dow Jones) Jun bonds see new high for session, 121-09 after stops over 121 hit. Merrill buyer 4000 Jun bonds. Other big names also in. (CN) 

 1411 (Dow Jones) Big story Thurs. might not be expected big Feb. retail sales growth figure, but a sizable upward revision to Jan's 0.2% gain. Last year, Jan. retail sales growth was revised up 0.8 pct points. Another revision like that isn't out of the question (BB). 

 1405 (Dow Jones) Large structural short base in 10-year note seen contributing to "almost unprecedented" outperformance. Tight supply expected to continue, with 10-year tightening in repo through year-end. (JM) 

 1401 (Dow Jones) House Ways and Means Committee is slated to mark up a steel quota bill Wednesday (March 10), directing the President to take steps to reduce volume of steel imports. (JC) 

 1328 (Dow Jones) U.S. stocks pull back from session highs Tuesday as more rumors of weakness in profit outlook for technology companies spread across trading desks. 

 1322 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD at 1.0880 and sputtering without direction after upside test of 1.0900 failed. On downside, market seems reluctant to re-test lows near 1.0800 absent fresh fundamentals, trader says. (SH) 

 1312 (Dow Jones) USD/JPY sliding lower in range, at 121.14, with banks seen gunning for rumored stop-loss selling positions below 121.00. (SH) 

 1310 (Dow Jones) Some buying in 10-year said to be related to shake up at government and proprietory desk of primary dealer. Firm said to be balancing books, buying cash, after 10-year trader out. (CN) 

 1302 (Dow Jones) Optimistic growth forecasts and reining in of rate cut expectations pushed sterling higher during U.K. budget speech. GBP/USD at 1.6175, up from 1.6130 as speech began 1530 GMT. Page 4210. (CW, RF) 

 1300 (Dow Jones) AT&T's huge bond deal still "a mystery," says investor. "I don't know what the big secret is." A salesman at co-lead Merrill is telling potential buyers that "syndicate isn't saying boo" about it. (TS) 

 1255 (Dow Jones) Lucent's $1 billion bond offering has "north of $3 billion in indicated orders," says investor. Pricing seen Wed. Bear Stearns has books; Merrill is co-lead. Price talk 88-90 bps over Tsys. (TS) 

 1238 (Dow Jones) Set-back in Treasurys eases, helping push DJIA to another record high. If rates behave, some analysts see Dow 10K fairly soon. Techs shrug off profit warning from Advanced Micro and move higher. DJIA up 62, Nasdaq ahead 21. (TPG) 

 1230 (Dow Jones) Cash gold traded as high as $294.15, highest since Dec. 17. A clear break above it would see a flood of buy-stop orders, analysts said. Last at $293, up about $5 on week. (VIC) 

 1219 (Dow Jones) Expect more globalization in supermarket industry, says analyst, after Netherlands' Ahold agreed to buy Pathmark. Pathmark's junk bonds up 5 points. "Grand Union will be next," predicted the analyst. (TS) 

 1215 (Dow Jones) GovPX volume by noon at $34.74 bln, 27.7% lower than average 1Q '98 Tuesday. Volume suggests that only players are issuers of upcoming spread deals and mortgage desks. Retail seems out of picture. (SV) 

 1207 (Dow Jones) Greenspan highlights economy's strength but also notes the absence of inflation. Bond market taking with neutral nonchalance. (SV) 

 1202 (Dow Jones) U.K. Brown's budget "a tad expansionary", injects GBP1.065 Bln into economy. Economic forecasts unchanged when a small downward revision to GDP was mooted. June gilts slump 0.77 to 115.60. (NK) 

 1200 (Dow Jones) Greenspan, breaking no new ground, calls U.S. economic expansion "an exemplary accomplishment by any standard." He added the most common complaint among small businesses is finding qualified workers. (FL) 

 1200 (Dow Jones) Apr oil up 34 cents at $13.97/bbl, flirting with $14.03, four-month high hit Monday. Market reacting to positive statements about Iran output cut deal at coming OPEC meeting.(MF) 

 1154 (Dow Jones) Lehman Brothers said buyer of 20,000 Jun 124 conversion, buying 20,000 Jun 124 bond puts to offset long call position and buying 20,000 bond futures (CN) 

 1122 (Dow Jones) GBP steady at USD1.6130, EUR1.4833. Few surprises in U.K. budget. Tax cut, spending stimulus plans seen impotent as budget assumptions "way too optimistic." But market expected that, trader says. (MC) 

 1113 (Dow Jones) House Commerce subcommittee hearing on bond transparency, previously scheduled for Wednesday, March 10, has been postponed until further notice. (JC) 

 1055 (Dow Jones) 10-yr outperforming with yield down 3 bps to 5.23%. 10 year on special in repo market today, and demand is spilling over now onto the cash market as well. (UT) 

 1054 (Dow Jones) Technical buying and short covering in choppy trade still main part of puzzle with buy stops above 120-20 in Jun bond. Market feeds towards 121-09 resistance. Next resistance 121-20. (CN) 

 1043 (Dow Jones) Bear said buyer 10000 Jun 94.75/95/95.25 eurodollar put trees. Merrill also said buyer of same set up. Both acting for same customer. Thought is looking for volatility to hold up with market staying between the two ends. (CN) 

 (END) Dow Jones Newswires  03-09-99 

 1531EST 

1085 4022

Document cm00000020010826dv3900gr9




 N.Y. Stocks: Tech Advance Fuels Stocks, DJIA At Highs 

Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition Roundup
753 words
9 March 1999
17:39
Dow Jones Asian Equities Report
AER
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--The Dow Jones Industrial Average moved into record territory Tuesday, as technology shares bounced back from early weakness and Treasury bonds steadied. The industrial average was up 58 to 9786 in midday trading. 

 The blue-chip average recovered from its early lows amid strong gains for tech bellwether International Business Machines. Its shares rose 4 1/4 to 183 1/8. 

 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 8.40 to 1291.10 after setting its own new high on Monday. The Nasdaq Composite Index was up 25 to 2423 Tuesday and the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index edged up 3 to 607.10. 

 Declining issues outpaced adv ancers, 1,408 to 1,358 on the Big Board, as volume reached 379 million shares. 

 Monday's tech-driven rally stalled Tuesday following a profit warning from Advanced Micro Devices, which reported after the close of trading Monday that it would post a "significant" first-quarter operating loss because it missed, by at least a half-million units, its target of shipping 5.5 million K6-2 processors in the quarter. The chip maker also said it will cut 300 jobs. Its shares slumped 1 15/16 to 17. 

 The warning heralded the kick-off of the dreaded preannouncement season, when companies warn analysts and shareholders that earnings for the current quarter are running short of expectations. With the market trading at near-record levels and the Dow industrials flirting with the 10000 milestone, traders said the warning was enough to inject an ounce of caution in the market. 

 Microsoft, meanwhile, surged 4 5/16 to 163 5/16 on a report that the company may be exploring a settlement with the Department of Justice in its antitrust suit. 

 Also weighing on Wall Street was the unsteady debt market, which saw interest rates rise ahead of a report on fourth-quarter productivity and a speech expected later Tuesday by Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan. 

 Nonfarm productivity rose by a greater-than-expected 4.6% in the fourth quarter, helping to allay fears that the economy is in danger of overheating. The data, which follows on the heels of a benign employment report on Friday, helped provided further evidence that economy is growing without spurring inflation. 

 Meanwhile, Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan, speaking at a luncheon at the Fed's Business Access to Capital and Credit Conference in Arlington, Va., Tuesday, said that while U.S. economic growth has remained vigorous and unemployment is lower than it has been in nearly 30 years, "there have been no obvious signs of emerging inflation pressures." Traders said the Fed chief's remarks, which essentially reiterated comments made before Congress in his  semiannual Humphrey-Hawkins testimony in February, were largely ignored by the market. 

 Lycos soared 11 3/16 to 95 1/16, after CMGI's chairman quit the Web portal company's board. He opposes the merger pact with USA Networks and is seeking other potential buyers for Lycos. Shares of CMGI, which owns about 20% of Lycos, gained 2 11/16 to 202 3/8. All of the companies trade on the Nasdaq. 

 Sony jumped 4 1/2 to 90 5/16. The electronics producer and retailer announced it will cut the number of fa ctories world-wide, reduce its work force by 10% and raise its stake to 100% in three Japanese subsidiaries, as part of a broad restructuring of it global holdings. 

 Drug concerns suffered following an article in The Wall Street Journal that reported that the Federal Trade Commission has expanded its probe of big pharmaceutical companies to determine whether they are unfairly stifling generic competition. The agency's investigation, which now involves Eli Lilly, DuPont, Abbott Laboratories and Hoechst was prompted by concerns about spiraling drug-price inflation and  possible anticompetitive practices. One subject of investigation is Eli Lilly's pact with Sepracor on Prozac. Eli Lilly lost 1 1/4 to 96 1/16, and Sepracor slumped 4 1/2 to 134 7/8. 

 RJR Nabisco Holdings rose 1 9/16 to 30 3/16 after the company agreed to sell its international tobacco business for $7.8 billion to Japan Tobacco. RJR also said that its board approved a plan to separate its domestic tobacco business, R.J. Reynolds Tobac co, from its Nabisco food business. 

 (END) Dow Jones Newswires  09-03-99 

 1739GMT 

20716 4116 5042

Document aer0000020010824dv390081y




NEWS
U.S. Stocks Surge To a Record HighJobs Data Ease Inflation Fears 

Mitchell Martin 
International Herald Tribune
980 words
6 March 1999
International Herald Tribune
INHT
English
© 1999 International Herald Tribune.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All rights reserved.  

With economic news that could hardly have been more favorable behind it, the Dow Jones industrial average soared 2.8 percent to a record high on Friday. The blue-chip stock average rose 268.68 points to close at 9,736.08, above the previous record of 9,643.32 set Jan. 8. The surge on Friday followed a 191.52-point rise on Thursday. What sparked the advance Friday was the release of U.S. employment statistics for February, the first official data for the month. The government said 275,000 jobs were created last month, above what economists had been predicting but less than what some inflation-wary analysts had feared. Other parts of the report indicated that inflation remained quiescent. Although the number of jobs rose, the unemployment rate crept up to 4.4 percent from 4.3 percent in January. 

More important on the inflation front was that average hourly earnings rose just 0.1 percent, showing that even though companies are hiring many new workers they are not having to raise wages to get and keep them. The data went a long way toward allaying fears that the Federal Reserve Board would push interest rates higher when its policy-setting Open Market Committee meets at the end of the month. Last week, the central bank's chairman, Alan Greenspan, said the Fed expected the economy to expand at a healthy clip of 2.5 percent to 3 percent this year, and that the dangers of that expansion igniting inflation were about evenly balanced with deflationary forces arising from weak economies in other countries and productivity gains. Despite the noncommittal nature of his comments, interest rates in the bond market rose in the days after he spoke as investors focused on the warnings about inflation. The 30- year Treasury bond's yield, which had been 5.41 percent on the eve of Mr. Greenspan's testimony, ended at 5.69 percent on Thursday, but after Friday's unemployment news fell to 5.59 percent."These are figures even bond traders could love," Ken Mayland, chief economist of KeyCorp in Cleveland said. "The real surprise, especially in the face of tight labor markets, was the minuscule rise of average hourly earnings. The 3.6 percent 12-month increase in wages is something both companies and bond traders can live with." The good news about U.S. inflation and interest rates was tonic to stock markets in Europe. In Japan, meanwhile, the benchmark stock index jumped 5.01 percent as markets there continued to respond to aggressive monetary- easing measures by the Bank of Japan. (Page 11)The decline of U.S. interest rates since the end of 1994, when the 30-year Treasury yielded more than 7.8 percent, is one of the key reasons the Dow industrials have risen in value by more than 150 percent since that time. Scanty bond yields make stocks attractive investments, and the low interest rates also make it inexpensive for companies to finance expansion.Joseph Battipaglia, chairman of investment policy at Gruntal &Co., said the market was poised for further gains this year. He predicted the Dow would rise an additional 10 percent. "Two concerns that the market has had in the last several weeks were that U.S. interest rates were going to move higher and that personal- computer demand and consumption were slowing," he said. Those factors had kept the Dow trading in a range of about 9,100 to 9,300 for most of this year. The Nasdaq composite index, which is influenced by trends among technology stocks, had fallen 10 percent from the beginning of February until Wednesday, as concern about growth in the computer industry grew. Recently, however, "the broader market was starting to have a better tone," Mr. Battipaglia said. Economic data has been supportive as the United States seems destined for its ninth year of expansion.On Friday, the Nasdaq composite closed up 45.38 points, or 2 percent, at 2,338.27. This week, Mr. Battipaglia said, several developments led investors to think that technology companies were devising ways to deal with the slackness in their markets. He cited the announcements that International Business Machines Corp. would supply parts to Dell Computer Corp. in a seven-year deal that would make it easy for the retailer to extend its rapid expansion and that Hewlett-Packard Co. would break itself into two companies to improve its focus. He also noted that Texas Instruments Inc. said its first-quarter sales would rise as much as 6 percent in the first quarter, which gave the company's shares a boost. More broadly, Mr. Battipaglia said, the weakness in overseas economies and financial markets that has weighed on Wall Street in recent years seems to be abating. He said there were signs that Japan's economy would begin growing, helping to lift Asia out of recession and expanding markets for U.S. exporters. On the New York Stock Exchange, Boyds Collection was the most-active issue on its first day of trading. The maker of handcrafted stuffed animals and other collectible items was trading at the offering price of $18 The interest-rate outlook benefited financial companies. Rising issues included Citigroup, American Express and Fannie Mae. On the Nasdaq system, Level One was the most- active issue, soaring 17 7/8 to 45 after Intel said it would buy the company. Intel rose 1 1/4 to 114 1/4 in active trading. Other active gainers among technology issues on Nasdaq were Dell, Microsoft, Cisco, Yahoo!, MCI Worldcom, Applied Materials, Oracle, Ebay and Amazon.com. IDX Systems dropped 11 1/2 to 14 1/2 after the maker of health care information systems gave a profit warning.  

Document inht000020010828dv36001cq




 U.S. stocks hold early strong gains in afternoon. 

103 words
5 March 1999
18:15
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

     U.S. stocks sharply higher in afternoon, holding onto 

 early rally that came after jobs report offered no inflationary 

 surprises. Dow surging, up 213 points at 9681, pushing past 

 record high close of 9643 set on Jan. 8. Nasdaq up 38 points at 

 2331. S&P 500 up 23 at 1270. Advancers beat out decliners on 

 NYSE, Nasdaq. Long-bond up 1-25/32, yield 5.57 pct. 


   NASDAQ	     S&P 500	    RUSSELL 2000	
COMPUSA SHARES FALL AFTER PROFIT WARNING


WHITE HOUSE'S YELLEN SEES NO INFLATION PRESSURES .



(C) Reuters Limited 1999.


Document lba0000020010908dv35024fg




Abreast of the Market
 American Express and Kodak Fall As Blue-Chip Stocks Feel Pressure 

 By Thomas Granahan 
Dow Jones Newswires
963 words
4 March 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
C2
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 NEW YORK -- Continuing worries about profits in the high-tech sector and more weakness in the bond market pressured blue-chip stocks. 

 After the market close on Tuesday, 3Com, the big networking company, said it would report weak third-quarter results because of slow sales of personal computers. The announcement came on the heels of similar news from other big technology concerns about slowing PC sales, and restrained any chance of a rally yesterday in what many analysts say is an oversold tech group. 

 Shares of 3Com fell 2 7/16, or 9.9%, to 24 9/16 on Nasdaq, hitting a 52-week low of 22 3/4 intraday. 

 AT&T added 1 1/2 to 83 3/8. The company and America Online are in talks that could lead to a marketing alliance, according to USA Today. AT&T had no comment. 

 General Motors shares gained 3/16 to 82 7/8 after the company reported total car sales in February jumped 19%. 

 American Express fell 1 7/8 to 107 13/16, Eastman Kodak eased 11/16 to 64 3/8, and United Technologies dropped 1 5/16 to 123 5/16. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 21.73, or 0.23%, to 9275.88. Declining issues on the New York Stock Exchange outpaced advancing issues by a five-to-four margin, with Big Board volume hitting 745 million shares. 

 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index edged up 2.20, or 0.18%, to 1227.70, and the Nasdaq Composite index managed a gain of 6.17, or 0.27%, to 2265.20. 

 Monsanto improved 2 1/4, or 5.9%, to 46 5/8. The New York Times reported Monsanto is in talks to be acquired by DuPont. Officials at both companies declined to comment, but analysts were skeptical such a deal would take place, given antitrust concerns, possible dilution to DuPont, and the companies' different corporate cultures. Shares of DuPont fell 1 1/16 to 50 1/4. 

 Jones Apparel Group, Bristol, Pa., shed 3 3/16, or 12%, to 22 3/4 after the company said late Tuesday it will buy Nine West Group for about $1.4 billion in cash, stock, and the assumption of debt. Wall Street observers expressed concern that synergies between the two retailers may be difficult to achieve as the apparel business, Jones's specialty, is different than the shoe business, in which Nine West is a major player. Shares of Nine West, Stamford, Conn., added 1/16 to 22 7/8. 

 Shares of Pall dropped 4 13/16, or 23%, to 16 1/2, hitting a 52-week low of 15 3/4 intraday. The East Hills, N.Y., filter maker late Tuesday posted second-quarter net income of 15 cents a diluted share, compared with 22 cents a year earlier and four cents shy of expectations. The company also said it expects the rest of its fiscal year to be difficult. 

 Kmart slipped 3/16 to 17 1/2 despite coming in with fourth-quarter net income that topped Wall Street's expectations. The nation's third-largest retailer, based in Troy, Mich., earned 65 cents a diluted share, compared with the First Call consensus estimate of 61 cents. Kmart also said February sales in stores open at least a year were above plan. 

 Republic Industries advanced 1 5/16, or 10%, to 13 15/16, The Fort Lauderdale, Fla., company will sell its share of Republic Services in a public offering, and hopes to complete the deal in the second quarter. Republic Industries is a car-rental and sales company; Republic Services is a waste-disposal company. 

 Tiffany, the upscale retailer based in New York, jumped 2 1/8, or 3.6%, to 61. The company earned $1.49 a diluted share in the fourth quarter, compared with $1.17 a year earlier and seven cents better than the First Call consensus estimate. Tiffany also said fourth-quarter same-store sales rose 12%. 

 Jabil Circuit, an electronics contract manufacturer in St. Petersburg, Fla., dropped 1 to 30 3/4. Analysts cited the profit warning from 3Com, which is one of Jabil's customers, and investors may also have been concerned about the potential dilution from a 10.5 million-share secondary offering, expected this week or next. 

 Shares of Amdocs fell 3 5/8, or 14%, to 22 3/16. The company agreed to acquire Architel Systems in a stock deal valued at as much as $403 million. Architel's shareholders will receive a new class of Amdocs shares that can be exchanged at any time, share-for-share, for ordinary shares of Amdocs. Amdocs is a St. Louis provider of product-driven information-systems services. 

 Checkfree (Nasdaq) fell 3 3/8, or 8.7%, to 35 1/2. Intuit filed a breach-of-contract lawsuit against the Atlanta provider of financial processing and software, alleging the company isn't following the terms of an agreement for bill presentment. 

 Stocks actually managed to pare some of their losses late, continuing a string of volatility in the last hour of trading. As has been the case for some time, though, an early rally wasn't sustainable. 

 The combination of higher interest rates and a handful of warnings from some high-profile technology concerns has changed the psychology of the market. 

 "When you have warnings from glamor companies like Dell and Compaq, which people count on, it's not good for the market," said Don Selkin, chief investment strategist at Joseph Gunnar. "And from a technical aspect, the internals of the market have really deteriorated." 

Document j000000020010828dv34007u9




 N.Y. Stocks: Shares Hold Gains, Powered By Tech Deal 

871 words
4 March 1999
18:41
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


    A Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition Roundup



NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Blue-chip stocks soared Thursday, helped by a
multibillion-dollar partnership between two technology heavyweights.


 The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 146 points, or 1.6%, to 9421 in early afternoon trading. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 12.75 to 1240, the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index added 6.20 to 588.70 and the Nasdaq Composite Index climbed 22.59 to 2287. 

 Advancing issues soared past decliners 1,620 to 1,137 on the Big Board, where volume reached 435 million shares. 

 Just before trading began International Business Machines and Dell Computer confirmed they signed a $16 billion pact that is expected to span seven years. As part of the deal, Dell will purchase storage, microelectronics, networking and display technology from IBM for integration into Dell computer systems. In the future, the agreement is expected to include other IBM technology. 

 The companies said the agreement calls for broad patent cross-licensing and collaboration on the development of future technology. Word of the pact was first reported in The Wall Street Journal Thursday morning. 

 IBM shares jumped 7 9/16 to 174 5/16, while Dell climbed 2 3/8 to 83 5/16. 

 Technology issues - which managed to stay in positive territory Wednesday despite a profit warning from 3Com - raced higher on word of the partnership. The Nasdaq Computer Index rose 22.90 to 1196.80, while the Philadelphia Stock Exchange Semiconductor index climbed 9.20 to 362.60. 

 International Game Technology slumped 3 7/16 to 14 7/8. The Reno, Nev., computerized casino-game maker warned that the company may not meet its 1999 full-year expectations following news of possible new Nevada gambling legislation that may restrict or prohibit a gaming-machine manufacturer from receiving a percentage of profits from the gaming machines. 

 American Express rose 2 3/4 to 110 9/16. Salomon Smith Barney started its investment rating on the New York travel- and financial-services provider at buy. 

 RF Micro Devices soared 3 9/16 to 84 3/4. The board of the Greensboro N.C., maker of radio circuits declared a 2-for-1 stock split. 

 General Motors gained 2 1/2 to 85 3/8 after the company said U.S. unit sales jumped 18% in February from the year before, providing a much needed boost to the company's flagging market share. The No. 1 auto maker capitalized on an extremely strong economy and buoyant consumer confidence with a broad array of discounts, recording total sales of 389,049 units. A weak performance a year earlier also helped boost the percentage increases. Sales gains appeared across the board, with cars up 19% and trucks up 16% to a record for the month. 

 Circuit City Stores climbed 3 3/8 to 60 7/16. The company said it expects earnings for its core consumer electronics, personal computer and major appliance businesses to exceed Wall Street's expectations, although the unit will take a hit from its investments in Digital Video Express and the CarMax Group. Richmond, Va., Circuit City's fourth-quarter earnings are expected to add $1.23 to $1.25 a share. 

 Retailers generally reported strong February sales, boosted by favorable weather during the month and increased demand from lower-income consumers who received pay raises. But again, shoppers appeared to prefer discounters and specialty stores to department stores. Among the stores reporting results, Dollar General gained 1 3/8 to 31 13/16. The Nashville discount retailer reported that February same-store sales rose 4%, while total retail sales for the four weeks ended Feb. 26 rose 17.9%. 

 Meanwhile, Wal-Mart Stores gained 1 3/8 to 88 3/4 after reporting a 10.3% increase in February same-store sales and a 17.7% jump for total sales for the four weeks ended Feb. 26. However, Saks slid 3 7/16 to 32 9/16. The Birmingham, Ala., retailer said February same-store sales were flat with year-ago levels, while total sales for the four weeks ended Feb. 27 rose 7%. 

 Micron Technology gained 2 to 54 5/8. Gruntal & Co. upgraded its investment rating on the Boise, Idaho, chip maker to strong buy from buy. 

 ICN Pharmaceuticals gained 1 1/2 to 24 1/2. The Costa Mesa, Calif., company said it fell to a loss for the fourth quarter of $2.85 a share, because it was forced to write off its Yugoslavian operations, which were seized by the Yugoslav government. Excluding the charge, the company said it would have earned 15 cents a share, matching the estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call. The company earned 49 cents a share, in the year-earlier period. 

 Staples jumped 9/16 to 28 9/16. The Westborough, Mass., office supplies retailer said net income soared 44% to 22 cents a share from 16 cents a share, in the previous-year period. The results came in 2 cents a share higher than analysts surveyed by First Call estimated. 

 (END) DOW JONES NEWS  03-04-99 

 01:41 PM 

Document dj00000020010827dv340569z




 U.S. Markets:Stks Surge On IBM-Dell Pact But Choppy Mkt Seen 

 By Jason Anders 
541 words
4 March 1999
16:24
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Wall Street Journal Interactive 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Stocks got off to a strong start Thursday, buoyed by a multibillion-dollar partnership between two technology heavyweights. Bonds were little changed and the dollar rallied against the yen. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average, which slipped 21.73 on Wednesday, was up 148 points to 9424 in late morning trading. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 16.20 to 1243.90, the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index added 5.90 to 588.40 and the Nasdaq Composite Index climbed 38.30 to 2303.50. 

 Just before trading began, International Business Machines and Dell Computer confirmed they signed a $16 billion pact that is expected to span seven years. As part of the deal, Dell will purchase storage, microelectronics, networking and display technology from IBM for integration into Dell computer systems. In the future, the agreement is expected to include other IBM technology. 

 The companies said the agreement calls for broad patent cross-licensing and collaboration on the development of future technology. Word of the pact was first reported in The Wall Street Journal Thursday morning. 

 IBM shares jumped 9 1/8 to 175 7/7, while Dell climbed 2 1/2 to 83 7/16. 

 Technology issues - which managed to stay in positive territory Wednesday despite a profit warning from 3Com - raced higher on word of the partnership. The Nasdaq Computer Index rose 26.20 to 1200.10, while the Philadelphia Stock Exchange Semiconductor index climbed 8.50 to 361.90. 


"A lot of the beaten-up technology names are showing some recovery,"
said Richard Cripps, chief market strategist at Legg Mason Wood Walker
Inc. "The optimism out of the Dell-IBM news has created a backdrop to do
some bargain hunting in technology. But I think this is definitely
bargain hunting, as opposed to the start of any sort of broad-based
rally that moves the market substantially higher."
   Analysts noted that bond yields have continued to rise in recent
sessions, and said much market attention will remain focused on
Friday's release of employment data.
   "We still have the storm cloud of interest rates overhanging the
market," said Greg Nie, a technical analyst at Everen Securities Inc.
"I would look for this to be a choppy session, even with the sharp
move up at the opening." Bonds were slightly lower in late morning
trading Thursday.



World-wide, stocks advanced in dollar terms. The Dow Jones World Stock
Index was up 1.43 to 198.66 as of 11 a.m. EST.



In major market action: Stocks climbed. On the Big Board, where 248
million shares traded, 1,500 stocks rose and 1,003 fell.



Bonds idled. The bellwether 30-year Treasury bond slipped 1/8 point,
or $1.25 per $1,000 in bond face value. Its yield, which moves in the
opposite direction of its price, stood at 5.70%.



The dollar strengthened. In New York, it traded at $1.0820 to the euro
and 123.40 yen to the dollar, from $1.0888 and 121.84 yen late Tuesday.



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  03-04-99



11:24 AM


Document dj00000020010827dv34055of




 Israeli Delta Galil U.S. Issue Seen Aimed At Raising Profile 

 By Michele Gershberg 
854 words
4 March 1999
14:48
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 JERUSALEM (Dow Jones)--Israeli textile manufacturer Delta Galil Industries Ltd.'s (C.DGL) plans for an equity offering in the U.S. is partly aimed at increasing its U.S. market penetration, analysts said. 

 Long a supplier to trendy U.S. retail chains, the company isn't well-known overseas as a stand-alone name. It's vulnerable to a high dependence on sales to Marks & Spencer of the U.K. and faces competition from Asian producers, analysts said. 

 But they said the company has a strong potential, riding on a solid reputation and its ability to draw on regional cooperation to cut costs. 

 Delta Galil is currently conducting an overseas road show and plans to offer 20.4% of its equity in late March, with an option to enlarge the flotation by 15% if it is oversubscribed. The company hopes to raise $40 million to $45 million in the offering, which is being managed by Lehman Brothers, Bear Stearns and Co., ING Baring Furman Selz LLC. 

 "Delta Galil wants to be considered a global company and as such they have to have access to global capital markets," said Martin Geifman, an analyst at Nessuah Zannex Securities Ltd. 

 Delta Galil officials wouldn't be interviewed during the quiet period preceding the company issue. 

 Delta Galil manufactures a broad range of upscale textile products, from women's lingerie to baby clothes and leisure wear. The company's client list in the U.S. includes The GAP, Victoria's Secret and J. Crew, along with designer labels Ralph Lauren, Calvin Klein and Donna Karan. Sales to the U.S. amounted to 16% of all proceeds in 1998, up from 13% in 1997. 

 But while GAP underwear may sport a "Made In Israel" label, Delta Galil isn't a well-known name overseas, analysts said. A listing in the U.S. should raise Delta's profile there, they said. 

 "They supply to the big names but, as a private label supplier, they do have a problem with name recognition," said Geifman. 

 The share offering may also give a boost to its stock, which is thinly traded on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. On Thursday, Delta Galil shares were trading unchanged at 39.80 shekels ($1=ILS4.0470) on a volume of ILS317,00. Market capitalization is some ILS587 million. 

 Dependence On Marks & Spencer A Possible Risk 

 In 1998, Delta Galil sold 51% of its merchandise to Marks & Spencer, which recently issued a profit warning. "If there is a risk factor for the company, it is its dependence on one major customer which has recently reported problems," said a textile analyst at Bank Hapoalim, Israel's largest bank. 

 Yet Delta hopes to gain in the near term from an expected reevaluation of cost effectiveness at the U.K. chain, increasing sales to Marks & Spencer because its prices undercut competitors, analysts said. "They present the Marks & Spencer story as working to their benefit - which is all fine unless Marks & Spencer is hit really hard," said Amit Tessler, analyst at Ofek Securities and Investments in Tel Aviv. 

 Delta Galil's net profits rose to ILS74.6 million in 1998 from ILS51.8 million in 1997, largely due to the lowered labor costs and a slight rise in foreign sales. A stronger focus on Delta Galil's popular line of women's lingerie should also strengthen profits in the future, analysts said. 

 Revenues rose only slightly to ILS1.26 billion from ILS1.33 billion in 1997, after Delta Galil sold an Israeli intimate apparel chain, discontinued sales of Lee brand jeans and Arad Towels merchandise and stopped manufacturing football jerseys. 

 Company Capitalizes On Mideast Peacemaking 

 Delta Galil's share issue stands to benefit from the company's reputation of providing quality merchandise to well-known clients, analysts said. But "there are comparable companies in the Far East, and the pricing they get in New York could be pressured just due to the fact they're not the only ones out there," Geifman said. 

 Yet Delta Galil still maintains an advantage by being a full-service provider, doing everything from weaving and dyeing its own cloth to designing and marketing finished products, he said. 

 Delta Galil is also known as the first Israeli textile company to reap a so-called "peace dividend," taking advantage of Mideast peacemaking to move factories to Egypt, Jordan and Turkey, where lower costs have helped boost profits. 

 "Delta Galil has already been doing for four years what other suppliers are beginning to do now," the Bank Hapoalim analyst said regarding the relocations. 


"What is interesting is that they identified the trend early and
carried it out on a large scale," the analyst said, noting other Israeli
textile companies have since followed. Delta Galil manufactured 53% of
its products in Israel in 1998, down from 60% in 1997, and plans to
reduce it to below 50% in 1999.
-By Michele Gershberg;9722-537-6985;mgershberg@ap.org



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  03-04-99



09:48 AM


Document dj00000020010827dv34055gh




 N.Y. Stocks: Blue-Chip Stocks Hold Strong Gains 

Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition Roundup
843 words
4 March 1999
20:39
Dow Jones Asian Equities Report
AER
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Blue-chip stocks soared Thursday, helped by a multibillion-dollar partnership between two technology heavyweights. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 165 points, or 1.8%, to 9441 in late afternoon trading. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 11.50 to 1239.20, the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index added 5.10 to 587.70 and the Nasdaq Composite Index climbed 12.53 to 2277.73. 

 Advancing issues surged past decliners 1,513 to 1,353 on the Big Board, where volume reached 613 million shares. 

 Just before trading began, International Business Machines and Dell Computer confirmed they signed a $16 billion pact that is expected to span seven years. As part of the deal, Dell will purchase storage, microelectronics, networking and display technology from IBM for integration into Dell computer systems. In the future, the agreement is expected to include other IBM technology. 

 The companies said the agreement calls for broad patent cross-licensing and collaboration on the development of future technology. Word of the pact was first reported in The Wall Street Journal Thursday morning. 

 IBM shares jumped 4 5/8 to 171 3/8, while Dell climbed 1 to 81 15/16. 

 Technology issues - which managed to stay in positive territory Wednesday despite a profit warning from 3Com - raced higher on word of the partnership, but then gave up the early gains. The Nasdaq Computer Index rose 3.50 to 1177.30, while the Philadelphia Stock Exchange semiconductor index climbed 0.30 to 353.70. 

 Merrill Lynch gained 4 3/8 to 82 1/16, while Morgan Stanley Dean Witter jumped 1 3/4 to 94 9/16. Salomon Smith Barney raised its first-quarter and 1999 earnings estimates for both financial companies. American Express rose 4 1/16 to 111 7/8. Salomon Smith Barney started its investment rating on the New York travel- and financial-services provider at buy. 

 International Game Technology slumped 3 7/16 to 14 7/8. The Reno, Nev., computerized casino-game maker warned that the company may not meet its 1999 full-year expectations following news of possible new Nevada gambling legislation that may restrict or prohibit a gaming-machine manufacturer from receiving a percentage of profits from the gaming machines. 

 RF Micro Devices soar ed 3 9/16 to 84 3/4. The board of the Greensboro, N.C., maker of radio circuits declared a 2-for-1 stock split. 

 General Motors gained 2 to 84 7/8 after the company said U.S. unit sales jumped 18% in February from the year before, providing a much-needed boost to the company's flagging market share. The No. 1 auto maker capitalized on an extremely strong economy and buoyant consumer confidence with a broad array of discounts, recording total sales of 389,049 units. A weak performance a year earlier al so helped boost the percentage increases. Sales gains appeared across the board, with cars up 19% and trucks up 16% to a record for the month. 

 Circuit City Stores climbed 5 5/8 to 62 11/16. The company said that it expects earnings for its core consumer electronics, personal computer and major appliance businesses to exceed Wall Street's expectations, although the unit will take a hit from its investments in Digital Video Express and the  CarMax Group. Richmond, Va., Circuit City's fourth-quarter ea rnings are expected to add $1.23 to $1.25 a share. 

 Retailers generally reported strong February sales, boosted by favorable weather during the month and increased demand from lower-income consumers who received pay raises. But again, shoppers appeared to prefer discounters and specialty stores to department stores. Among the stores reporting results, Dollar General gained 1 13/16 to 32 1/4. The Nashville discount retailer reported that February same-store sales rose 4%, while total retail sales for the four weeks ended Feb. 26 rose 17.9%. 

 Meanwhile, Wal-Mart Stores gained 1 3/16 to 88 9/16 after reporting a 10.3% increase in February same-store sales and a 17.7% jump for total sales for the four weeks ended Feb. 26. However, Saks slid 2 3/16 to 33 13/16. The Birmingham, Ala., retailer said February same-store sales were flat with year-ago levels, while total sales for the four weeks ended Feb. 27 rose 7%. 

 ICN Pharmaceuticals gained 1 3/16 to 24 3/16. The Costa Mesa, Calif., company said it fe ll to a loss for the fourth quarter of $2.85 cents a share, because it was forced to write off its Yugoslavian operations, which were seized by the Yugoslav government. 

 Excluding the charge, the company said it would have earned 15 cents a share, matching the estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call. The company earned 49 cents a share, in the year-earlier period. 

 (END) Dow Jones Newswires  04-03-99 

 2039GMT 

20716 4116 5042

Document aer0000020010824dv3400asp




 N.Y. Stocks: Shares Hold Gains, Powered By Tech Deal 

872 words
4 March 1999
18:43
Dow Jones Asian Equities Report
AER
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 A Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition Roundup 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Blue-chip stocks soared Thursday, helped by a multibillion-dollar partnership between two technology heavyweights. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 146 points, or 1.6%, to 9421 in early afternoon trading. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 12.75 to 1240, the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index added 6.20 to 588.70 and the Nasdaq Composite Index climbed 22.59 to 2287. 

 Advancing issues soared past decliners 1,620 to 1,137 on the Big Board, where volume reached 435 million shares. 

 Just before trading began International Business Machines and Dell Computer confirmed they signed a $16 billion pact that is expected to span seven years. As part of the deal, Dell will purchase storage, microelectronics, networking and display technology from IBM for integration into Dell computer systems. In the future, the agreement is expected to include other IBM technology. 

 The companies said the agreement calls for broad patent cross-licensing and collaboration on the development of future technology. Word of the pact was first reported in The Wall Street Journal Thursday morning. 

 IBM shares jumped 7 9/16 to 174 5/16, while Dell climbed 2 3/8 to 83 5/16. 

 Technology issues - which managed to stay in positive territory Wednesday despite a profit warning from 3Com - raced higher on word of the partnership. The Nasdaq Computer Index rose 22.90 to 1196.80, while the Philadelphia Stock Exchange Semiconductor index climbed 9.20 to 362.60. 

 International Game Technology slumped 3 7/16 to 14 7/8. The Reno, Nev., computerized casino-game maker warned that the company may not meet its 1999 full-year expectations following news of possible new Nevada gambling legislation that may restrict or prohibit a gaming-machine manufacturer from receiving a percentage of profits from the gaming machines. 

 American Express rose 2 3/4 to 110 9/16. Salomon Smith Barney started its investment rating on the New York travel- and financial-services provider at buy. 

 RF Micro Devices soared 3 9/16 to 84 3/4. The board of the Greensboro N.C., maker of radio circuits declared a 2-for-1 stock split. 

 General Motors gained 2 1/2 to 85 3/8 after the company said U.S. unit sales jumped 18% in February from the year before, providing a much needed boost to the company's flagging market share. The No. 1 auto maker capitalized on an extremely strong economy and buoyant consumer confidence with a broad array of discounts, recording total sales of 389,049 units. A weak performance a year earlier also helped boost the percentage increases. Sales gains appeared across the board, with cars up 19% and trucks up 16% to a record for the month. 

 Circuit City Stores climbed 3 3/8 to 60 7/16. The company said it expects earnings for its core consumer electronics, personal computer and major appliance businesses to exceed Wall Street's expectations, although the unit will take a hit from its investments in Digital Video Express and the CarMax Group. Richmond, Va., Circuit City's fourth-quarter earnings are expected to add $1.23 to $1.25 a share. 

 Retailers generally reported strong February sales, boosted by favorable weather during the month and increased demand from lower-income consumers who received pay raises. But again, shoppers appeared to prefer discounters and specialty stores to department stores. Among the stores reporting results, Dollar General gained 1 3/8 to 31 13/16. The Nashville discount retailer reported that February same-store sales rose 4%, while total retail sales for the four weeks ended Feb. 26 rose 17.9%. 

 Meanwhile, Wal-Mart Stores gained 1 3/8 to 88 3/4 after reporting a 10.3% increase in February same-store sales and a 17.7% jump for total sales for the four weeks ended Feb. 26. However, Saks slid 3 7/16 to 32 9/16. The Birmingham, Ala., retailer said February same-store sales were flat with year-ago levels, while total sales for the four weeks ended Feb. 27 rose 7%. 

 Micron Technology gained 2 to 54 5/8. Gruntal & Co. upgraded its investment rating on the Boise, Idaho, chip maker to strong buy from buy. 

 ICN Pharmaceuticals gained 1 1/2 to 24 1/2. The Costa Mesa, Calif., company said it fell to a loss for the fourth quarter of $2.85 a share, because it was forced to write off its Yugoslavian operations, which were seized by the Yugoslav government. Excluding the charge, the company said it would have earned 15 cents a share, matching the estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call. The company earned 49 cents a share, in the year-earlier period. 

 Staples jumped 9/16 to 28 9/16. The Westborough, Mass., office supplies retailer said net income soared 44% to 22 cents a share from 16 cents a share, in the previous-year period. The results came in 2 cents a share higher than analysts surveyed by First Call estimated. 

 (END) Dow Jones Newswires  04-03-99 

 1843GMT 

20716 4116 5042

Document aer0000020010824dv3400asi




 N.Y. Late Market Comment -5: Republic Indus, Tiffany Up 

299 words
3 March 1999
21:54
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Republic Industries advanced 1 5/16, or 10.4%, to 13 15/16, The Fort Lauderdale, Fla., company will sell its share of Republic Services Inc. in a public offering, and hopes to complete the deal in the second quarter. Republic Industries is a waste disposal and car rental and sales company. 

 Tiffany, the upscale retailer based in New York, jumped 2 1/8, or 3.6%, to 61. The company earned $1.49 a diluted share in the fourth quarter, compared with $1.17 a year earlier and 7 cents better than the First Call consensus estimate. Tiffany also said fourth-quarter same-store sales rose 12%. 

 Jabil Circuit, an electronics contract manufacturer based in St. Petersburg, Fla., dropped 1 to 30 3/4. Analysts cited the profit warning from 3Com, which is one of Jabil's customers, and investors may also have been concerned about the potential dilution from a 10.5 million-share secondary offering, expected this week or next. 

 Shares of Amdocs fell 3 5/8, or 14%, to 22 3/16. The company agreed to acquire Architel Systems Corp. in a stock deal valued at $400 million. Architel's shareholders will receive a new class of Amdocs shares that can be exchanged at any time, share-for-share, for ordinary shares of Amdocs. Amdocs is a St. Louis provider of product driven information systems services. 


Checkfree (Nasdaq) fell 3 3/8, or 8.7%, to 35 1/2. Intuit filed a
breach of contract lawsuit against the Atlanta provider of financial
processing and software, alleging the company isn't following the terms
of an agreement for bill presentment.
   -By Thomas Granahan; 201-938-5106



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  03-03-99



04:54 PM


Document dj00000020010827dv33054ev




 =N.Y. Late Market Comment -5: Republic Indus, Tiffany Up 

300 words
3 March 1999
21:57
Dow Jones Asian Equities Report
AER
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Republic Industries advanced 1 5/16, or 10.4%, to 13 15/16, The Fort Lauderdale, Fla., company will sell its share of Republic Services Inc. in a public offering, and hopes to complete the deal in the second quarter. Republic Industries is a waste disposal and car rental and sales company. 

 Tiffany, the upscale retailer based in New York, jumped 2 1/8, or 3.6%, to 61. The company earned $1.49 a diluted share in the fourth quarter, compared with $1.17 a year earlier and 7 cents better than the First Call consensus estimate. Tiffany also said fourth-quarter same-store sales rose 12%. 

 Jabil Circuit, an electronics contract manufacturer based in St. Petersburg, Fla., dropped 1 to 30 3/4. Analysts cited the profit warning from 3Com, which is one of Jabil's customers, and investors may also have been concerned about the potential dilution from a 10.5 million-share secondary offering, expected this week or next. 

 Shares of Amdocs fell 3 5/8, or 14%, to 22 3/16. The company agreed to acquire Architel Systems Corp. in a stock deal valued at $400 million. Architel's shareholders will receive a new class of Amdocs shares that can be exchanged at any time, share-for-share, for ordinary shares of Amdocs. Amdocs is a St. Louis provider of product driven information systems services. 


Checkfree (Nasdaq) fell 3 3/8, or 8.7%, to 35 1/2. Intuit filed a
breach of contract lawsuit against the Atlanta provider of financial
processing and software, alleging the company isn't following the terms
of an agreement for bill presentment.
   -By Thomas Granahan; 201-938-5106



(END) Dow Jones Newswires  03-03-99



2157GMT


20716 4116 5042

Document aer0000020010824dv3300al6




 Alcatel To Acquire Internet-Gear Firm Xylan For About $2 Billion 

662 words
2 March 1999
05:29
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 CALABASAS, Calif. -(Dow Jones)- French telecommunications equipment company Alcatel SA said Tuesday that it signed an agreement to acquire Xylan Corp. for $37 a share in a deal it valued at about $2 billion. The announcement confirmed a report in Tuesday's Wall Street Journal. 

 Meanwhile, Chairman Serge Tchuruk said Alcatel would, by the end of next week, buy another company to fill the technology gap it sees in its product offerings. Tchuruk said it will acquire, for a few hundred million dollars, a company specializing in linking mobile computers to local area and other networks. He didn't elaborate. 

 Alcatel's per-share offer represents a 37% premium to Xylan's (XYLN) $26.938 closing share price Monday on the Nasdaq stock market. In Tuesday's trading the shares jumped $8.813, or 33%, to close at $35.75 on volume of nearly 30 million, dwarfing the daily average of around 1.2 million. Alcatel's American depositary receipts (ALA) edged up 50 cents to $21.875. 

 Alcatel said it will make a cash tender offer for all Xylan outstanding shares starting March 8. The boards of both companies have approved the deal, and Xylan recommended that its shareholders accept the offer. The deal is expected to be completed in the beginning of April. 

 The purchase would marry Alcatel's strength as a major equipment supplier to U.S. local and long-distance telephone companies with Xylan's Internet-equipment business. Calabasas, Calif.-based Xylan makes the increasingly important switches and other routing gear that companies use to build high-speed data networks. 

 Older, established companies such as Alcatel are being driven to buy Internet-gear makers such as Xylan because the volume of data traffic zipping around the world is far outstripping old-fashioned voice telephone calls. Analysts believe voice calls will account for less than 1% of all telecom traffic within a few years, making it crucial for companies such as Alcatel to get a solid foothold in the new market. 

 Founded in 1993, Xylan makes switches that connect networks of corporate computers. More recently, Xylan also began making switches that will allow telecom companies to provide special services to corporations across their networks. The company's technology is highly regarded, and the new switches could help Alcatel further penetrate the U.S. market, while going up against powerful companies like Lucent Technologies Inc., Cisco Systems Inc. and Canada's Northern Telecom Ltd. 

 Xylan reported revenue of $347 million last year, up more than tenfold since it began shipping products in 1995. But the company remains a second-tier player in the data-networking business, behind such behemoths as Cisco and 3Com Corp., which have much more diversified product offerings. Even within the world of corporate network switches, Xylan ranks sixth, according to Dell'Oro Group of Portola Valley, Calif. 

 Tuesday deal prompted some analysts to say Telefon AB L.M. Ericsson of Sweden, Northern Telecom Ltd. of Brampton, Ontario, and Siemens AG of Germany may also be on the prowl for smaller Internet equipment makers. 

 Alcatel's fortunes sagged significantly in mid-September when it shocked the market with a profit warning. Its stock was pummeled, but has since recovered slightly. 

 The latest move represents Alcatel's continuing foray into the U.S. market, which is its biggest, contributing about 20% of sales. That is a big change from a few years ago, when it sold most of its products in France. 

 Last summer, Alcatel surprised investors by acquiring DSC, one of the biggest providers of phone equipment to the Baby Bells, for about $4 billion. Alcatel traditionally had been strong in supplying transmission equipment to long-distance operators, so the DSC acquisition helped it significantly broaden its footprint in the market. More recently, Alcatel acquired a small Spokane, Wash., Internet equipment maker called Packet Engines. 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020329dv32020r2




 Small-Cap Stocks Log Gains Although Nasdaq Turns South 

Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition Roundup
701 words
2 March 1999
19:57
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Small-capitalization stocks logged gains Tuesday as financial-services companies led advancing sectors on the Nasdaq Stock Market. 

 The Russell 2000 Index, which tracks the direction of small stocks traded on the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq Stock Market, rose 3.30 to 397.70 in midafternoon trading. The Nasdaq Composite Index, which measures the performance of large and small issues traded on Nasdaq, was down 12.68 at 2282.50. The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 10 to 9335. 

 Technology measures weakened from a midday recovery, with the Nasdaq Computer Index slipping 3.70 to 1196.30, while the Philadelphia Stock Exchange Semiconductor Index eased 1.50 to 358.40. 

 Some Nasdaq industry indexes rose, led by financial services, the dominant listing on the Russell 2000, with a rise of 22.20 to 219.60. 


    Visx, Xylan, Lindal Cedar Homes All Gain
   Among small-capitalization stocks, with market capitalizations at
$1.5 billion or less, Visx, Santa Clara, Calif., soared 19 7/16 to 79
15/16 after announcing that its first-quarter earnings would surpass
expectations by as much as 19 cents a share. Late Monday the maker of
laser for eye surgery said it expects a first-quarter profit of
between 51 cents to 55 cents a share. Visx's revised outlook prompted
BancBoston Robertson Stephens to lift its rating on Visx to "buy" from
"long-term attractive."
   Xylan gained 9 to 35 15/16 after French telecommunications company
Alcatel confirmed Tuesday that it signed an agreement to acquire the
Calabasas, Calif., maker of Internet switching equipment in a deal it
valued at about $2 billion, or $37 a share.
   Lindal Cedar Homes, a Seattle maker of cedar houses and sun rooms,
rose 3/8 to 2 1/2. The company reported a turnaround for the fourth
quarter, posting a profit of a penny a share as lower wood prices
helped it improve its performance.
   Let's Talk Cellular & Wireless, Miami, advanced 17/32 to 5.  The
retailer of cellular and wireless products said earnings for its
second quarter ended Jan. 31 jumped to 23 cents a diluted share from
seven cents a share a year earlier. Dialogic, Los Angeles, jumped 4
7/16 to 35 5/16 after Redmond, Wash., software giant Microsoft
announced plans to take a 5% stake in the Parsippany, N.J., technology
concern. Dialogic also said it received a four-year, $20 million
contract to license software to Microsoft and to provide development
services. Dialogic provides products for voice, fax, data, speech
recognition, call centers and Internet telecommunications.



Maxx am advanced 10 5/8 to 58 1/2 on the American Stock Exchange.



The Houston conglomerate's subsidiary, Pacific Lumber, reached an
agreement to sell some of its holding in California's Headwaters Forest
for wilderness preservation, which includes assurances from state and
federal agencies that the unit will remain viable.



Coach USA, Austin, Texas, gained 3 1/2 to 28 1/2 on the Big Board.
Late Monday the motorcoach company reported earnings for its fourth
quarter of 56 cents a share, beating analysts" exp ectations by a penny.



American Skiing, Newry, Maine, fell 9/16 to 3 7/16 on the Big Board.
The ski-resort holding company reported a downturn for its second
quarter ended Jan. 24, posting a loss from continuing operations of 36
cents a diluted share after a gain a year earlier of 15 cents a share.
   Youth Services International, Owings Mills, Md., fell 7/8 to 2 27/32
after warning that it expects to report a fourth-quarter loss of $5.9
million to $6.5 million, or 52 cents to 57 cents a share, including
charges. Youth Services operates residential juvenile-justice sites
and offers related non-residential programs.
   Burke Mills lost 1/2 to 1 7/8 after the Valdese, N.C., yarn maker
reported a downturn for its fourth quarter ended Jan. 2 of four cents
a share after posting a profit of three cents a share a year earlier.



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  03-02-99



02:57 PM


Document dj00000020010827dv3205250

Search Summary

 Text((“profit*” same “warning*”) or ("disappoint*" same "result*") or ("decreas*" same "profit*") or ("compan*" same "downturn*") or ("unexpect*" same "loss*"))   Date03/01/1999 to 03/31/1999   SourceAll Sources   AuthorAll Authors   CompanyAll Companies   Subject Not Corporate/Industrial News   IndustryAll Industries   RegionUnited States   LanguageEnglish   Results Found39   Timestamp29 March 2018 17:44  
 Page 148 of 148     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

