 
•	  The Charlotte Observer, N.C., Business Insider Column 
•	 INSIDER
•	 WHAT'S GONE WRONG AT FIRST UNION?
•	  Irish pack a punch greater than their weight on Nasdaq. 
•	 Sale Of Hoyts's US Screens Falls Through
•	  United States 
•	  Shares climb back as Rubin panic proves to be short-term. 
•	  How So-Called Double Dipping Looks -- From More Than One Point of View 
•	  U.K. buy helps Texas Utilities first-quarter profits rise 44% 
•	  Autodesk Set To Open Lower On 1Q Earning Warning >ADSK 
•	 BRIEFING
•	  Comdisco Up Late After Unveiling Pact To Sell Mainframe Ops 

 The Charlotte Observer, N.C., Business Insider Column 

990 words
31 May 1999
KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Charlotte Observer - North Carolina
KRTBN
English
Copyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)

 BURRITO MOBILE TO FILL SALSA NEEDS ALL OVER UPTOWN: 

 Here it is, the eve of Johnny Burrito's first anniversary, and the popular uptown eatery's owner, Johnny Bitter, already has two expansion plans in the works. 

 When Dem Cats kick off this fall, a limited Johnny Burrito menu will be available at Ericsson Stadium for noshing by pigskin fans --their ranks perhaps depleted by last year's lackluster season. Bitter, a former Green Banker whose restaurant is in the basement of Two First Union, also is about to resolve a common customer complaint. 

 "A lot of people come down here, and say when are you going to open near NationsBank? (Ahem, that's BoA now, folks.) They say they wouldn't walk this far for anything else." 

 By fall, Bitter expects to open JBII in the Ivey's building. So keep an eye out for that lime green burrito mobile "putting the heat on the street," as Bitter's slogan goes, up there on Red Bank turf. 

 ED CRUTCHFIELD found himself facing the question last week of whether he might sell First Union, now that the bank has once again stunned Wall Street with another profit warning and seen its stock hammered down to the low $40s. 

 For a guy who snapped up so many banks since becoming First Union's CEO that industry wags started calling him Fast Eddie, Crutchfield responded to the question as if it were almost an insult. 

 "Absolutely not," he said. "Clear?" 

 IT WAS INEVITABLE that Insider would dredge up a Charlotte connection to the Star Wars-Phantom Menace craze. Funny things happen when you circulate your e-mail address to 250,000 of your closest friends. 

 Mike Sullivan tells us his son, Dan Sullivan, a Charlotte Catholic grad, is senior marketing manager for Hasbro Inc. in Cincinnati, responsible for selling 100 products tied to the movie under a mega-bucks 1997 licensing deal with Lucas Licensing Ltd., the film and entertainment company founded by Star Wars creator George Lucas. 

 "Dan likely got his inspiration watching his younger brother Patrick and Jimmy Palermo play with their large collection of Star Wars toys many years (or galaxies) ago," writes proud papa. (That would be the younger Palermo, son of Jim Palermo, Bank of America's executive veep of corporate real estate). 

 Sullivan runs 50-Plus Communications Consulting, a marketing consulting shop that helps companies tailor their sales messages for older audiences. 

 The Big I wasn't able to reach Dan, but we sure hope he's got lots of stock options piled up, with Hasbro's stock (Amex: HAS) up 25 percent so far this year -- due in no small measure, no doubt, to those hot-selling Star Wars toys. 

 Back on Earth, Mayor Pat McCrory -- who had just returned from a trip to Germany with his wife, Ann Gordon McCrory -- couldn't help but show off his German language skills last week to the crowd at the Mayor's Conference on Entrepreneurship. 

 "Sprechen sie Deutsch? (Do you speak German?)" he asked. 

 No takers on that one. A couple of people weakly answered "ja" --the German equivalent of "yes." 

 Meanwhile, the mayor used Bill Gates -- who dropped out of Harvard to start that little software company in the Pacific Northwest -- as a model for entrepreneurs everywhere. Then he went on to tell folks that after meeting Gates twice, he came to the conclusion that there isn't much difference between the world's richest man and Hizzoner. 

 "He's 42. I'm 43," McCrory said. "He's worth about $80 billion. I'm not worth $80 billion. Although I heard he might be down to $75 billion because of the last two days" on the stock market. 

 NO DOUBT ABOUT IT, Charlotte traffic is bad, but it takes someone from Atlanta to give us some true insight into the problem. 

 Mike Salvador works in the Peach State's largest city as an executive with Right Management Consultants, an international career management consulting firm. He was in town last week to present a study the company did about best practices in mergers and acquisitions. The small gathering of human resource executives was at the Marriott Executive Park, off Tyvola Road. 

 Said Salvador to the group: "I want to thank you for giving me the opportunity to avoid rush hour traffic in Atlanta. It was a lot more fun coming from my room to here ... The way I avoid traffic in Atlanta is go to work at 5 a.m. and leave at 8 p.m." 

 CHARLIE ERWIN, who grew the Winston-Salem-based Ham's Restaurants chain and is a partner in SouthPark's Cino Grille, is teaming up with pizza guy Barry Wolfman. Wolfman and former partner Jim Verney, who hooked up a couple of years ago and immediately announced ambitious expansion plans, have parted ways. 

 Wolfman won't talk numbers, but says Erwin will have a minority ownership stake in his small Wolfman Pizza chain; how big a stake will be determined by how successful he is at growing the California-style pizzeria concept. 

 And finally, Phillip Ashkettle, CEO of Reichhold Inc., based in Research Triangle Park, says he accepted the top job at Cleveland's M.A. Hanna Co. for two reasons: He'll be in charge of one of the world's largest specialty chemicals companies, and he'd be returning to Ohio, where he grew up. 

 The Big I can't say we share Ashkettle's sympathies, although we do understand his desire to trade up to a better football team. Ashkettle, of course, will go back to rooting for the reborn Cleveland Browns after being a Pittsburgh Steelers fan for years. 

 The Steelers? No mention of that team from Charlotte. 

 Send us your business rumors, tips and Insider gossip. Fax to (704) 358-5172 or e-mail to obsbiz@charlotte.com. 

Document krtbn00020010828dv5v00xy7




Insider
BUSINESS MONDAY
INSIDER

1,017 words
31 May 1999
Charlotte Observer (NC)
CLTO
ONE - THREE
2D
English
Copyright 1999 The Charlotte Observer. All rights reserved.   

* Burrito mobile to fill salsa needs all over uptown

Here it is, the eve of Johnny Burrito's first anniversary, and the popular uptown eatery's owner, Johnny Bitter, already has two expansion plans in the works.

When Dem Cats kick off this fall, a limited Johnny Burrito menu will be available at Ericsson Stadium for noshing by pigskin fans - their ranks perhaps depleted by last year's lackluster season. Bitter, a former Green Banker whose restaurant is in the basement of Two First Union, also is about to resolve a common customer complaint.

``A lot of people come down here, and say when are you going to open near NationsBank? (Ahem, that's BoA now, folks.) They say they wouldn't walk this far for anything else.''

By fall, Bitter expects to open JBII in the Ivey's building. So keep an eye out for that lime green burrito mobile ``putting the heat on the street,'' as Bitter's slogan goes, up there on Red Bank turf.

Ed Crutchfield found himself facing the question last week of whether he might sell First Union, now that the bank has once again stunned Wall Street with another profit warning and seen its stock hammered down to the low $40s.

For a guy who snapped up so many banks since becoming First Union's CEO that industry wags started calling him Fast Eddie, Crutchfield responded to the question as if it were almost an insult.

``Absolutely not,'' he said. ``Clear?''

It was inevitable that Insider would dredge up a Charlotte connection to the Star Wars-Phantom Menace craze. Funny things happen when you circulate your e-mail address to 250,000 of your closest friends.

Mike Sullivan tells us his son, Dan Sullivan, a Charlotte Catholic grad, is senior marketing manager for Hasbro Inc. in Cincinnati, responsible for selling 100 products tied to the movie under a mega-bucks 1997 licensing deal with Lucas Licensing Ltd., the film and entertainment company founded by Star Wars creator George Lucas.

``Dan likely got his inspiration watching his younger brother Patrick and Jimmy Palermo play with their large collection of Star Wars toys many years (or galaxies) ago,'' writes proud papa. (That would be the younger Palermo, son of Jim Palermo, Bank of America's executive veep of corporate real estate).

Sullivan runs 50-Plus Communications Consulting, a marketing consulting shop that helps companies tailor their sales messages for older audiences.

The Big I wasn't able to reach Dan, but we sure hope he's got lots of stock options piled up, with Hasbro's stock (Amex: HAS) up 25 percent so far this year - due in no small measure, no doubt, to those hot-selling Star Wars toys.

Back on Earth, Mayor Pat McCrory - who had just returned from a trip to Germany with his wife, Ann Gordon McCrory - couldn't help but show off his German language skills last week to the crowd at the Mayor's Conference on Entrepreneurship.

``Sprechen sie Deutsch? (Do you speak German?)'' he asked.

No takers on that one. A couple of people weakly answered ``ja'' - the German equivalent of ``yes.''

Meanwhile, the mayor used Bill Gates - who dropped out of Harvard to start that little software company in the Pacific Northwest - as a model for entrepreneurs everywhere. Then he went on to tell folks that after meeting Gates twice, he came to the conclusion that there isn't much difference between the world's richest man and Hizzoner.

``He's 42. I'm 43,'' McCrory said. ``He's worth about $80 billion. I'm not worth $80 billion. Although I heard he might be down to $75 billion because of the last two days'' on the stock market.

No doubt about it, Charlotte traffic is bad, but it takes someone from Atlanta to give us some true insight into the problem.

Mike Salvador works in the Peach State's largest city as an executive with Right Management Consultants, an international career management consulting firm. He was in town last week to present a study the company did about best practices in mergers and acquisitions. The small gathering of human resource executives was at the Marriott Executive Park, off Tyvola Road.

Said Salvador to the group: ``I want to thank you for giving me the opportunity to avoid rush hour traffic in Atlanta. It was a lot more fun coming from my room to here . . . The way I avoid traffic in Atlanta is go to work at 5 a.m. and leave at 8 p.m.''

Charlie Erwin, who grew the Winston-Salem-based Ham's Restaurants chain and is a partner in SouthPark's Cino Grille, is teaming up with pizza guy Barry Wolfman. Wolfman and former partner Jim Verney, who hooked up a couple of years ago and immediately announced ambitious expansion plans, have parted ways.

Wolfman won't talk numbers, but says Erwin will have a minority ownership stake in his small Wolfman Pizza chain; how big a stake will be determined by how successful he is at growing the California-style pizzeria concept.

And finally, Phillip Ashkettle, CEO of Reichhold Inc., based in Research Triangle Park, says he accepted the top job at Cleveland's M.A. Hanna Co. for two reasons: He'll be in charge of one of the world's largest specialty chemicals companies, and he'd be returning to Ohio, where he grew up.

The Big I can't say we share Ashkettle's sympathies, although we do understand his desire to trade up to a better football team. Ashkettle, of course, will go back to rooting for the reborn Cleveland Browns after being a Pittsburgh Steelers fan for years.


   The Steelers? No mention of that team from Charlotte.

   *

   Send us your business rumors, tips and Insider gossip. Fax to (704)


358-5172 or e-mail to obsbiz at charlotte.com.

Photo-8 1. Johnny Burrito's lime green burrito mobile is ``putting the heat on the street.''   2. Bitter   3. Crutchfield   4. Lucas 5. Palermo   6. McCrory 7. Wolfman    8. Verney   

Document CLTO000020090629dv5v024m8




BUSINESS
WHAT'S GONE WRONG AT FIRST UNION?

By PAMELA L. MOORE, Staff Writer   
1,371 words
30 May 1999
Charlotte Observer (NC)
CLTO
ONE - THREE
1D
English
Copyright 1999 The Charlotte Observer. All rights reserved.   

It was July 1997, and Ed Crutchfield, the legendary hunter, had just bagged another trophy, Signet Banking Corp. of Richmond, Va.

As the First Union chief executive explained how he got Signet's management to capitulate, he bragged, ``I just kept stacking billion-dollar bills on the table.''

Signet was relatively small prey for First Union, despite its $3.3 billion price tag. If anything, it would prove a warmup for far bigger things to come.

In the next 12 months, Crutchfield stacked $22.5 billion on the table. Notably, he paid $19.8 billion for Philadelphia's last big bank, CoreStates Financial, then the most expensive deal in U.S. banking history, and $2.1 billion for a consumer finance company, The Money Store. At the time, banks were flush with record profits, stocks were flying and buyers, like Crutchfield's rival in Charlotte, Hugh McColl Jr., were willing to spend lavishly to acquire competitors and expand their reach.

But the deals of yesterday are coming back to haunt Crutchfield and the nation's sixth-biggest bank. The hunter is getting skinned. Investors are after blood, now that the bank has taken the highly unusual step of issuing a second warning in four months that profits will be far lower than originally forecast.

``Is management just so arrogant that it can do whatever it wants without regard for the shareholders?'' said Ryan, Beck analyst Lawrence Cohn.

When First Union said it would buy CoreStates in November 1997, it promised to earn $4.46 per share in 1999. Last week, First Union said it will earn only $3.40 to $3.50 a share this year.

What happened?

How is it that the bank, which had touted record 1998 earnings on Jan. 14 with no indication of a slowdown, could switch gears so suddenly and lop roughly $1 a share off its promised 1999 earnings? And, some people are asking, where was Wall Street? With the exception of one or two analysts, no one was raising questions about how First Union would replace $700 million of 1998 income that came from branch sales and other one-time gains - plus boost earnings 10 to 12 percent.

No one is questioning the soundness of the bank. First Union still will earn $3.3 billion to $3.4 billion this year. It still can claim that it does a better job than most banks its size in lending money and getting it back. Nor is anyone accusing First Union of messing up the job of combining CoreStates' operations with its own - of making CoreStates accounts First Union accounts, for example.

This is a case of paying too much, promising too much and failing to deliver the goods.

``They did too much too fast,'' said Tom McCandless of CIBC World Markets. ``What it boils down to is that somebody didn't have accountability for the numbers. . . . Nothing more, nothing less.''

Critics are focused on CoreStates and say there was no reason to buy it other than to feed the bank's ego: ``Despite what they say, they've been doing deals just to get bigger,'' said James Schmidt, a portfolio manager for the John Hancock Funds, a huge investor.

Complete answers on how First Union got to this point have yet to emerge, but the consequences of handing Wall Street such a nasty surprise are severe.

* It will take years for First Union's management to earn back credibility on Wall Street, say analysts and even the bank's own defenders. Speculation is heavy that the bank may attempt to restore credibility by hiring a new chief financial officer to replace Bob Atwood. Comment on a management issue is not appropriate, a bank spokeswoman said.

* A weak stock price - down 19 percent since its first profit warning - means it has less control over its destiny.

* The bank could face potential lawsuits from investors over the earnings shortfall. A bank spokeswoman said: ``We have confidence in our disclosure process and don't see any basis for a lawsuit.''

First Union's troubles can be traced to a number of factors, but it is still unclear when management became aware of all of them. Top executives declined to be interviewed for this story. The first sign of trouble came Jan. 26 - just 12 days after the bank said 1998 operating earnings increased 25 percent to a record $3.77 a share. That day, the bank sought to lower expectations for 1999 - from the $4.29 analysts agreed on to $4. It said an accounting change related to The Money Store would cost 8 cents to 12 cents a share.

The stock plunged on the news and stayed in a funk for months. Inside the bank, things were looking bleaker: Things were not turning around with CoreStates; nor was Future Bank, the bank's branch makeover, producing revenues that were expected. The loan portfolio softened.

That led to last week's bombshell. The bank disclosed that the CoreStates revenue shortfall would cost 12 cents a share in lost 1999 earnings; Future Bank would cost 10 cents; rising interest rates meant the bank wouldn't have any securities gains, at a cost of 10 cents; and additional loan loss coverage would cost 8 cents.

Management was forced to acknowledge that it had been too optimistic about CoreStates. But it's unclear how the bank arrived at its original projections. The matter calls into question First Union's business model and whether its practice of buying banks and shuttering hundreds of branches works as well as expected. Tom Brown, who has a contentious relationship with the bank, protested the

CoreStates estimates in December 1997 when he was still an analyst at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities. No way would the bank get the $194 million in additional income for 1999 it promised. ``Wake up, Wall Street!'' he said.

The Money Store, while a relatively small deal, has caused big headaches. The company used an accounting treatment called ``gain on sale'' when it bundled loans for sale to investors as bonds. Rather than spread that income over several years, The Money Store booked it immediately. Accountants view this as a red flag when they look at a company because it can add volatility to earnings. First Union decided to change the method in January - but at a cost of 8 cents to 12 cents in 1999.

The Money Store made First Union the largest U.S. home equity lender, and it may turn out to be a good purchase, said a person close to the bank who asked not to be identified. But it was complicated; indeed, the bank hired outside advisers to help evaluate the purchase and may have relied on them too much, the person said.

First Union has been in a tough place before. In 1989, it had merger digestion problems. The economy headed south and many banks stumbled because they'd been reckless in making real estate loans. First Union survived in part because of its strong lending culture. It emerged from the period by making one of its most important acquisitions ever in 1991, Miami's Southeast Banking Corp.

This time is different, though, some observers point out. Today, First Union is stumbling as others thrive.

And another thing's different. Many of First Union's shareholders didn't buy into the bank - they came in through acquisitions. They don't have any allegiance to Charlotte. They don't care what kind of crucial role Crutchfield has played in putting the city on the map. And the last thing they want to see is a new First Union skyscraper - rumored to be 80-plus stories - that eats up their invested money.

``There cannot be any economic reason to put up a building of that height,'' said James Schmidt of the Hancock Funds. ``There's only one reason to do it and that's ego. They could certainly impress me a lot by doing away with plans to top the the Taj McColl.''

Photo First Union CEO Ed Crutchfield is under pressure from investors, who are frustrated with the bank's disappointing earnings.   

Document CLTO000020090629dv5u024gm




 Irish pack a punch greater than their weight on Nasdaq. 

 By JANE O'SULLIVAN. 
807 words
28 May 1999
Irish Times
IRTI
74
English
(c) 1999

 Recent batterings have made some firms wary of weathering stormy market but Bill Gates stands as testimony of the rewards 

 In less than 30 years, the Nasdaq has come from nowhere to become the largest stock market in the world. Powered by a sophisticated computer system, more than 5,500 stocks are now listed on the exchange, generating an average trading volume of nearly $1 billion (E946,701 million) each day. 

 Only in terms of market capitalisation does the Nasdaq lag behind the famed New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). But joining pools of capital rather than grabbing all the trade or becoming the sole market is the aim of the Nasdaq, according to the head of Nasdaq International, Mr Charles Balfour. "We are trying to produce the most liquid and efficient markets," he says. "It's all about companies being able to access the cheapest possible capital." Mr Balfour, who is responsible for looking after Nasdaq's interests outside the US, says there are 430 non-US companies listed on the exchange with European firms accounting for about one-third of these. 

 Among those, Ireland punches well above its weight with 11 Nasdaq-listed stocks including market heavy-weights like CRH and Waterford Wedgwood as well as the high-tech firms like CBT and Iona Technologies for which the exchange is renowned. "Ireland is extremely important to us and will continue to be so," says Mr Balfour. He adds that Nasdaq is constantly in talks with Irish firms interested in taking a listing. Although there has been a slowdown of late in the number of Irish companies opting for a Nasdaq float, Mr Balfour attributes this to market conditions rather than recent concerns about volatility. 

 "Companies tend to put off their plans if their peer groups are in the doldrums," he says. However, the drubbing taken by a number of Irish Nasdaq-listed stocks in recent weeks has prompted some to wonder if it is indeed the right choice for young high-tech companies looking to grow and whether they might not be better to opt for safer choices such as venture capital funds or trade sales. 

 But a Nasdaq listing remains an attractive option for such companies, Mr Balfour believes. "If Bill Gates had sold out to a trade buy, he wouldn't be where he is today," he says. Mr Balfour also says that the volatility is partly a reflection of the depth of liquidity on the US capital markets. 

 But he believes it is also important to compare "apples with apples and pears with pears", pointing out that companies generally tend to perform in line with their sector while stocks of a similar size generally tend to have much the same trading pattern across markets. "We have no influence on the share price. It wouldn't matter if the stock was trading on the moon," he says. 

 At the end of the day, however, a company's share-price performance is its own responsibility, he believes. "It is up to the company and their advisers to get out there with a good story." 

 However, Mr Balfour declares himself a fan of dual listings, believing that a domestic investor base, with its own insight into and loyalty to local firms, can provide a useful counterweight to the international investor community. "It is important for economies like Ireland to develop their own home-bred institutions, to have domestic institutions of relevance," he says. "US investors have an extraordinary amount of choice across the board. If you take a French high-tech company, an Irish one and an Israeli one and one of them issues a profit warning, we all know who'll get caned but it's easier for domestic institutions to be on top of the situation in their own markets." 

 Mr Balfour, who joined Nasdaq six years ago after a long career in investment banking in Britain, the US and Asia, believes Europe needs to work on developing its capital markets and at encouraging retail investors. He particularly bemoans the fate of smaller companies in Europe as most institutional investors chase the same small pool of large firms while ignoring the opportunities that exist below a certain level. 

 Having spent more than 25 years in the investment industry, including stints with Paribas, Dillon Read and Hill Samuel, he also believes it is very important that all investors - including the smaller, retail investors - are properly educated to the risks of equity investment. "It is important that they all have access to proper information and research and that they formulate ideas based on facts not speculation," he says. "There is a risk that people get into chat rooms and buy on the back of that but that can only end in tears." 

Document irti000020010906dv5s00r8y




Business
Sale Of Hoyts's US Screens Falls Through

By Kevin Morrison   
406 words
26 May 1999
Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
25
English
© 1999 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.   www.smh.com.au

Hoyts Cinemas has warned that a sale of its 965-screen US operations is unlikely in the near term after the exit of an interested party - and that profits for the year will be lower than forecast.

The profit warning and sale setback come ahead of next Monday's close of the $2.05 per share takeover offer by Mr Kerry Packer's private company, Consolidated Press Holdings, which now owns about 78 per cent of the cinema operator, and is expected to get to 90 per cent by the close of the offer. This would trigger compulsory acquisition of the remainder of the shares.

Potential buyers of the Hoyts US assets were believed to include two existing US cinema operators and two leveraged-buyout specialists looking to get into the industry. Hoyts directors, including Mr James Packer after his appointment last week, said earnings continued to be affected by lower-than-expected cinema attendances from late April.

Management now expects Hoyts's earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) and net profit for the current year to fall.

The company expects 1998-99 EBITDA from the US business to be 5 to 10 per cent below the $US28.4 million ($43 million) estimated in its Part B statement, and for EBITDA for the entire group to be about $90 million for the year, versus $99.5 million last year, a decline of 10 per cent.

"The reduction in EBITDA will translate into a greater percentage reduction in NPAT [net profit after tax], as a result of the change in Hoyts' US results not being tax effected," it said.

Hoyts's net profit will also be hurt by the reduction in future tax benefits of $6.4 million, as a result of the change in control.

However, the now-Packer-controlled cinema group did not forecast a net profit because the final profit figure would be "significantly dependent upon the performance at the box office of Star Wars [film The Phantom Menace]" and other June releases over the next six weeks.

Hoyts's net profit for the year is now expected to be about $12 million, versus $27 million a year earlier. Analysts were tipping Hoyts to book a $20 million profit this year. The stock closed steady at $2.05. Page 29: Ecorp forced to extend eligibility date. 

Document smhh000020010829dv5q00c8k




What's News
 Report on Business: The Wall Street Journal 
 United States 

Wall Street Journal
126 words
26 May 1999
The Globe and Mail
GLOB
Metro
B9
English
"All material copyright Bell Globemedia Publishing Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. "

 First Union Corp. revised profit estimates downward for the third time this year, this time because of problems it has had digesting the bank's last major acquisition and new plans to spend heavily to offer services over the Internet. The news sent shares of the sixth-largest U.S. bank by assets tumbling 8.6 per cent, or $4.31 (U.S.), to $45.62 in extremely heavy composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange. This warning, coming barely two months after First Union last indicated that earnings expectations were too high, also dealt another serious blow to the company's already battered credibility among many analysts and investors. 

Document glob000020010827dv5q00rlr




 Shares climb back as Rubin panic proves to be short-term. 

482 words
14 May 1999
Birmingham Post
BMP
19
English
(c) 1999  Birmingham Post & Mail Ltd

 The brief panic of Wednesday afternoon, prompted by the sudden resignation of US Treasury Secretary Mr Robert Rubin, became a distant memory yesterday with strong gains for leading shares on both sides of the Atlantic. 

 The FTSE-100 opened in positive territory and kept its form throughout the day, boosted by a buoyant opening on Wall Street. 

 By late afternoon the Dow Jones had more than recovered from yesterday's modest losses, and in London the Footsie closed ahead 113.5 points at 6456.6. 

 Foods group Hillsdown Holding rocketed more than 30 per cent in the closing moments of trading after the company announced it had received a number of potential takeover approaches. 

 While no figures were put on the potential offers, which were announced just 15 minutes before the market closed, the poultry-to-canning company saw its shares shoot up 26p to 112p. 

 AstraZeneca jumped 116p to #25.75 on Wednesday's announcement that it was selling the Zeneca Specialty chemicals business. The #1.3 billion sale will reap a #90 million post-tax profit for Astra Zeneca. 

 Strong demand for pharmaceuticals stocks in general saw SmithKline Beecham jump 21p to 825p and Glaxo Wellcome put on 41p to #18.50. 

 Sims Food group, which makes all the burgers for Britain's Burger King, was riding high on record sales and improved profits. 

 The group was also lifted by the announcement of a 55p-per-share takeover offer. 

 Sims sizzled up 5p to 50p. 

 Eidos, the computer games publisher behind the Tomb Raider games, announced a collaboration with rock star David Bowie on a new adventure game scheduled for release in October. 

 The hints of another blockbuster lifted Eidos 47p to #20.12. 

 Still with computer games, console-maker Sega announced plans to provide free Internet access through its next product, the Dreamcast console. 

 BT was named as the Internet provider in Europe for the scheme lifting the telecoms group's shares 34p to #10.74. 

 The Internet was yet again making waves with the news that Dixons' Freeserve Internet business had bought a sizable stake in Globalnet, upping its interest in financial information paving the way for Freeserve to enter the on-line share trading business. 

 Dixons own shares gained on the news up 68p to #12.66. 

 Stanley Leisure dipped following yesterday's announcement that the state-owned Tote betting organisation is to be sold off. 

 With Stanley widely tipped as a potential trade buyer, shares dropped 5p to 242p on expectations of costs at the group involved in an acquisition. 

 Rentokil was far away the day's heaviest traded stock following its profit warning earlier this week, but after recent heavy falls today the trades were more merciful to the share price which fell just 3p to 270p. 

 Copyright Birmingham Post & Mail Ltd, 1999. 

Document bmp0000020010901dv5e00lgi




FEDERAL DIARY
 Metro 
 How So-Called Double Dipping Looks -- From More Than One Point of View 

 Mike Causey 
778 words
11 May 1999
The Washington Post
WP
FINAL
B07
English
Copyright 1999, The Washington Post Co. All Rights Reserved

 Beltway insiders who are part of the Washington establishment celebrate and reward masters of easy answers and sound bites. 

 The ability to reduce a complex issue to terms a third-grader would like is an art form. For example: "Star Wars, bad!" Or (from the opposite point of view) "Strategic Defense Initiative, good!" 

 Labeling a complex, multidimensional person as either a "liberal" (or commie) or a "conservative" (or fascist) is nearly always inadequate and inaccurate. But labels serve to puff up or belittle as needed. And it often works! Can you say Sen. Edward M. Kennedy or Sen. Jesse Helms? 

 Here's how we do it: 

 If you like a lawyer, she's a defender of just causes. Dislike same and she's an overpriced ambulance chaser. 

 Politicians we like and admire are statesmen. All others: sleezeballs! 

 Troublesome journalists: hacks. Those we admire: pundits. 

 People in public relations are flacks. But overnight, they can become helpful, media consultants when they explain (or spin) our favorite cause favorably. 

 Faceless, pointy-headed bureaucrats can, if we like what they are doing, be transformed into heroic and dedicated public servants. 

 Retired military officers who move into civil service jobs can be patriots who continue to serve their country or double dippers with both hands in Uncle Sam's pocket. Your call! 

 Congress may take action this year to take off the financial handcuffs and remove the double-dipper stigma from 6,100 retired regular officers now holding civil service posts. Or not. 

 Under the so-called dual compensation law, regular (but not reserve officers) give up part of their retired military pay when they take a federal civilian job. 

 Recent columns on the subject generated lots of mail from the retired officer community and from federal employees who work alongside them. 

 Here's a sample of what people had to say: 

 "I agree with President Eisenhower's [military-industrial complex] warning. Although I am one of those officers who chose to start a new career with the federal government . . . and could possibly benefit from repeal of the dual compensation law, I am not in favor of repeal. We cannot compromise our combat readiness for reasons other than economic or national interests. There needs to be a separation of personal profit from the needs of the warfighters. . . . The U.S. Army's use of retired generals on advisory boards and the accepted practice to provide easy access to the field staffs and units is almost unlimited. In most cases, they receive supplements from industry for their ability to influence Army decisions. The good-old-boy network . . . is alive and working. . . . Repealing the dual compensation law will only complicate this problem." 

 -- retired Lt. Col. Alan Winkenhofer, 

 Fort Knox, Ky. 

 "There's a fear that if the [dual compensation act] is repealed, the generals will benefit. The reality is that the higher-ups are all connected -- they work for private companies as consultants -- in some instances they get waivers from dual comp restrictions and work other angles . . . you would be hard-pressed to imagine. The dual compensation law really hits at mid-range officers, not the general officers. . . . 

 "There's also the myth that military retirees would `take over' the civil service. There will remain a number of disincentives. . . . To begin with, military retirees get no credit for military service when entering the civil service, and start at the bottom of the annual leave pool. . . . The nondisabled retiree is not eligible for veterans status in the event of a reduction in force. . . . Civil service rules really discourage retirees. . . . Taxpayers ultimately are rooked. . . . I cannot imaginean organization that would not want to retain the work force it trained -- it is a payback on its investment. . . . As an attorney, [I] could easily work downtown with a K Street law firm. Instead I still work for the Department of Defense and have been proud to have done so. . . . Some may call me a fool because of what I give up in dual compensation. I prefer to call myself a patriot." 

 -- Thomas Duffy 

 "There is another life form, call them "relative dippers," out there. I refer to spouses and relatives of current and former members of the House and Senate. They get the inside track for good federal jobs. And they get hired. They can be found in the Federal Aviation Administration, State Department and points between. How hypocritical for Congress to impose conditions on . . . earned benefits of retired officers while stacking the government with their kids and kin." 

 -- Nuts About Nepotism 

 Tuesday, May 11, 1999 

Document wp00000020010830dv5b00ibx




 BUSINESS 
 U.K. buy helps Texas Utilities first-quarter profits rise 44% 

Associated Press
290 words
6 May 1999
The Dallas Morning News
DAL
5C
English
Copyright 1999 Gale Group Inc. All rights reserved.

 DALLAS - Texas Utilities Co., which owns Texas's largest  utility, said first-quarter profit rose 44 percent because of  last year's acquisition of Eastern Group Plc, the U.K.'s largest  power supplier. 

 Net income rose to $182 million, or 65 cents a share, from $126.6 million, or 51 cents, in the year-earlier period. That beat the 62- cent average estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call Corp., who had lowered their expectations following a profit warning from the company last month.     Texas Utilities, which supplies electricity in Arlington, said  April 14 it would miss analysts' 97-cent average estimate because  mild weather reduced electricity and natural-gas sales in Texas,  where it has almost 3 million customers. Total sales rose 79  percent to $4.47 billion from $2.5 billion because of an increase  in Eastern's business. Texas Utilities bought Energy Group Plc,  Eastern's parent company, last May for $10.4 billion.     "Most people were expecting a good quarter from Eastern," said  Daniele Seitz, a Warburg Dillon Read analyst with a "buy" rating on  Texas Utilities. "The Street had taken a more severe view of (Texas Utilities') potential earnings." 

 The company's shares rose 1 5/16 to 41 1/2.     Dallas-based Texas Utilities has used Eastern to expand into  Europeand markets that are opening to competition. Eastern agreed  today to buy a 36 percent stake in Finnish power company Savon  Voima Oy for $68 million. Texas Utilities also said it repurchased 1.7 million shares of common stock last month. It has bought back 7.5 million shares since October 1995 and has about 280 million shares outstanding. 

Document dal0000020010906dv56007v0




 Autodesk Set To Open Lower On 1Q Earning Warning >ADSK 

241 words
5 May 1999
14:08
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 By Maria V. Georgianis 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Autodesk Inc. (ADSK) shares are set to fall Wednesday, following the first-quarter profit warning the design software company issued late Tuesday. 

 After the market's close Tuesday, Autodesk said its quarterly net income will likely be 2 cents to 5 cents a share, excluding one-time charges. Per-share earnings are expected to range between 10 cents and 15 cents, excluding charges and amortization of goodwill from acquisitions. 

 In addition, the company said revenue for the period ending April 30 is expected to range between $190 million to $195 million. That's flat to barely above the reported revenue of $187.2 million that Autodesk had in last year's first quarter. 

 In explaining its first-quarter preview, Autodesk, in a press release, pointed to customers being "in a transition throughout our product line." 

 Analysts had expected Autodesk to earn 40 cents a share in the latest quarter,according to First Call Corp. In the year-ago quarter, the San Rafael, Calif., company reported earnings of 55 cents on revenue of $187.2 million. 

 In recent trading, Autodesk was at 20 3/4, according to Instinet Inc. The stock closed Tuesday at 28 1/2, down 3.4%. 


-By Maria V. Georgianis (201) 938-5244;
   e-mail: maria.georgianis@dowjones.com



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  05-05-99



09:08 AM


Document dj00000020010827dv55000d9




BUSINESS
BRIEFING

1,220 words
4 May 1999
The Denver Post
DNVR
TUE1
C-02
English
Copyright © 1999 The Denver Post Corp. Distributed by NewsBank, Inc.   

Local

UTILITY EYES FEDERAL PLANT: New Century Energies Inc. said it may bid to acquire the electrical and gas distribution facilities at Fort Carson in Colorado Springs as part of a government plan to have private companies run federal plants. If New Century's bid is successful, the Denver-based utility said it would agree to provide gas and electric service to the U.S. Army post for at least 10 years. New Century is considering investing as much as $150 million in the facility near Colorado Springsby 2004, the company said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. (Bloomberg)

Y2K BUG BITES J.D. EDWARDS: J.D. Edwards & Co. said it will have a fiscal second-quarter operating loss instead of the profit analysts expected as companies delay purchases to fix the Year 2000 computer glitch. The Denver-based company said it will report an operating loss that could exceed $25 million for the period that ended Friday. Analysts had expected per-share earnings of 5 cents. J.D. Edwards said it will report revenue of $215 million to $235 million, which represents an increase of about3 percent to 12 percent over revenue of $209 million in the year-earlier period. The warning came after the close of U.S. trading. (Bloomberg)

KODAK RESPONDS TO BIAS CHARGES: Eastman Kodak will pay out $3 million to increase the salaries of 2,000 female and minority employees in New York and Colorado following employee complaints of racism and sexism in determining pay raises. Although insisting it does not discriminate, Kodak acknowledged Monday that since late 1998 the company fired or demoted an unspecified number of floor managers who determined annual employee pay raises. About 12 percent of the female employees and 33 percent ofthe black employees at Kodak will get the compensatory raises. The percentage of Hispanic employees that will get raises was very small, said Kodak spokesman Charles Smith. The $3 million pay raise allocation was not in response to a threatened lawsuit or as a settlement to some prior action, Smith said. (AP)

PENTAGON WON'T FLY KAL: Citing concerns about "safety practices and quality of service," the U.S. Defense Department ordered its employees not to use Korean Air for official travel, Agence France-Presse reported, citing an announcement by the U.S. Embassy in Seoul. The decision follows the crash of a KAL cargo jet outside Shanghai last month. The accident killed eight people and drew attention to KAL's poor safety record, forcing the airline's founding Cho family to give up management control of the carrier under heavy pressure from President Kim Dae Jung. The Korean government said last month that it will impose unspecified penalties on KAL. Korean Air flies between Denver and Seoul three times a week. (Bloomberg)

OSHA CITES FORT MORGAN PLANT: The U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration cited T&G Service Co., of Fort Morgan, for five "willful" safety violations and proposed penalties of $350,000 following the death of a T&G worker at the Excel Corp. meat plant in Fort Morgan last November. Carlos Vicente, of T&G, was cleaning and sanitizing processing equipment at the plant and died when he became entangled in the drive mechanism of a conveyor belt. T&G was cited principally for failing to enforce proper lockout procedures on equipment during maintenance operations. In December, OSHA cited Excel for 45 "willful, serious, repeat and other" safety violations at the plant. (The Denver Post)

'NET, CABLE DEAL STRUCK: Denver-based High Speed Access Corp. will provide high-speed data and Internet access to National Cable Television Cooperative member companies, which serve 10 million cable customers, under an agreement announced Monday. NCTC's 900 member operators will have the option to take HSA's complete end-to-end Internet access services for their subscribers, the cooperative said. (The Denver Post)

TRIAX SELLS CABLE SYSTEMS: Denver-based Triax Midwest Associates LP is being sold to Mediacom LLC, which delivers cable TV and Internet-access services in small communities and rural areas, in a cash deal valued at $740 million, the companies said Monday. Middletown, N.Y.-based Mediacom serves 370,000 customers in 14 states, while Triax counts 342,000 subscribers in Arizona, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota and Wisconsin. (Bloomberg)

2ND CRATE AND BARREL PLANNED: Crate and Barrel said it will open its second metro-area store, at Flatiron Crossing, a mall under construction in Broomfield. The home furnishing and accessories retailer said it signed a letter of intent with the mall's developer, Westcor, to occupy a 36,000-square-foot, one-story store. The mall is scheduled to open in August 2000. (The Denver Post)

KOHL'S TO OPEN GRANDLY: Kohl's department stores will hold grand-opening ceremonies for five new Denver-area stores May 14. The stores are at 18307 E. Hampden Ave. in Aurora, 8660 S. Quebec St. in Douglas County, 919 W. Dillon Road in Boulder County, 12090 Colorado Blvd. in Thornton and 11875 Sheridan Blvd. in Westminster. The Menomonee Falls, Wis., company has 231 stores in 23 states, including the Colorado locations. (The Denver Post)

Nation/World

BANKER RAISES BIG BUCKS: Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Wall Street's largest and richest investment banking partnership, raised $3.66 billion in the second-biggest U.S. initial stock sale. The New York-based securities firm sold 69 million shares at $53 each, or about a 14.8 percent stake. That was near the top of the $45 to $55 expected range the bank set. The sale gave Goldman Sachs a market value of $24.7 billion, about that of J.P. Morgan & Co., the fourth-largest U.S. bank. Goldman Sachs will begin trading today under the symbol "GS" on the New York Stock Exchange. (Bloomberg)

6 TO TESTIFY IN MICROSOFT TRIAL: Six final witnesses in the Microsoft antitrust trial will include an executive for IBM and two economists - one for each side - who stumbled through parts of their earlier testimony, people close to the case said Monday. The witnesses will take the stand during the trial's rebuttal phase, an important opportunity for each side to refine its courtroom position by trying to buttress the weakest parts of its arguments. The trial has been in a lengthy recess since Feb. 26 and is not expected to resume before May 24. (AP)

TREASURY BILLS SURGE: Interest rates on short-term Treasury securities rose in Monday's auction to the highest level since early March. The Treasury Department sold $7.52 billion in three-month bills at a discount rate of 4.480 percent, up from 4.335 percent last week. An additional $7.50 billion was sold in six-month bills at a rate of 4.495 percent, up from 4.410 percent. The three-month rate was the highest since March 8, when the bills sold for 4.510 percent. The six-month rate was the highest since March 15, when the rate was 4.530. The new discount rates understate the actual return to investors - 4.605 percent for three-month bills with a $10,000 bill selling for $9,886.80 and 4.675 percent for a six-month bill selling for $9,772.80. (AP)

Document DNVR000020150820dv5401ezj




 Comdisco Up Late After Unveiling Pact To Sell Mainframe Ops 

260 words
3 May 1999
22:43
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--After-market traders lifted shares of Comdisco Inc. (CDO) above their regular-session finish Monday after the company agreed to sell its mainframe leasing portfolio to International Business Machines Corp.'s (IBM) credit unit. 

 Terms of the deal weren't disclosed. 

 Comdisco stock moved recently at 27 1/2, up from its close in NYSE trading of 26 7/16. IBM issues traded in line with their regular-session finish of 212 1/4. 

 Comdisco has looked to focus on higher-margin operations, including the trendy business of high-speed Internet connections. In March, the company announced both its desire to pull out of mainframe leasing and its acquisition of Prism Communications, a provider of computer-network services. 

 Elsewhere, shares of J.D. Edwards & Co. (JDEC) were halted for late trading while the company issued a second-quarter profit warning. The stock finished trading Monday at 12 1/4, off 1 3/16, or 8.8%, during a regular session that saw Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, anticipating the announcement, downgrade the shares to neutral from outperform. 


The Denver software developer expects to post an operating loss of
more than $25 million, on revenue between $215 million and $235 million,
for the second quarter ended April 30. Analysts had targeted 5 cents a
share for the quarter, as compiled by First Call, compared with 11 cents
a share a year ago.
    -Scott Eden; 201-938-5173



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  05-03-99



05:43 PM


Document dj00000020010826dv53036z2

Search Summary

 Text((“profit*” same “warning*”) or ("disappoint*" same "result*") or ("decreas*" same "profit*") or ("compan*" same "downturn*") or ("unexpect*" same "loss*"))   Date05/01/1999 to 05/31/1999   SourceAll Sources   AuthorAll Authors   CompanyAll Companies   Subject Not Corporate/Industrial News   IndustryAll Industries   RegionUnited States   LanguageEnglish   Results Found12   Timestamp28 March 2018 14:55  
 Page 30 of 30     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

