 
•	  SMARTMONEY.COM: The Cash Stash 
•	  Tunnel vision --- Hot U.S. economy shows signs of slowing down 
•	 US banks slump as tech decline hits investments.
•	 Briefly
•	 FINANCIAL COMPANIES DRAG DOWN MARKETS
•	 Newscast: Business news   
•	  Six Veterans of Bank One Are Forming Financial-Services Firm on the Internet   
•	 Performance Tech Down 55%: Issued 2nd Quarter  Profit Warning
•	  SUNDAY COLUMN - Dive in, gents, boldness is, by all means, no vice. 
•	 A warning to drug companies
•	  Around the World's Markets - NEW YORK. 
•	  Asia Is Wary After U.S. Rise In Key Rates --- Many Shares Move Lower Across the Region   
•	  US tonic boosts techs and telecoms shares. 
•	 Third World finally gets break on HIV drug costs  
•	  Cable hits crossroads, faces consolidation. 
•	  High tech crash not all bad says Costello. 
•	  Waste Management's profits fall 84 percent 
•	  Colgate-Palmolive Chairman Mark Touts Co's Recovery, New  Products 
•	  BUSINESS BRIEFS Compiled by Carolyn A. April PERSONNEL: Myhrvold not returning to Microsoft in full-time role 
•	  Carriers catch a cold from bad banana business. 
•	  Shares shrug off Ken and stargazers' doom US employment figures helped to relieve 
•	  AT&T SHARES DROP AFTER SLOW-GROWTH WARNING 
•	  US STOCKS OFF AS BUYERS SIDELINED BEFORE FRIDAY'S JOBS REPORT. 
•	  Interest-Rate Hike Fears Sink Tech Stocks 
•	 Novell's shares tank after  profit warning
•	 PROFIT WOES HIT AT&T SHARES, FUEL WIDER FEARS 
•	 AT&T stock falls after  profit warning



 SMARTMONEY.COM: The Cash Stash 

1,466 words
1 June 2000
00:42
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 By Cintra Scott 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- When a company like Playtex Products (PYX) announces that rising interest rates will unexpectedly crimp its profits, investors get the picture: No industry is immune to Alan Greenspan's monetary fiddling. 

 But before you drop all your shares in consumer-products companies, remember this: Playtex didn't issue a profit warning just because it's a consumer products company. Its high debt level and steep spending plans made it especially vulnerable to the Fed's 50-point decision. Blame it on the balance sheet, not Greenspan. 

 With this in mind, we went screening for companies that have built up immunity to this interest rate pinch. Cooking up the recipe, we kept in mind that Wall Street almost always smiles on companies that generate cash. And when companies throw off lots of cash an environment of rising interest rates, Wall Street gets downright lovey-dovey. 

 Without excluding a single industry, we went searching for individual companies that have laudable cash-flow growth in their past and bright earnings growth in their future. With no other demands, 295 (out of 6,391) companies passed the test. These, we hope, are the companies that will use their own hard-earned money to fuel research and development, which is important for two reasons. First, companies that use their own money avoid profit-draining interest payments. Second, R&D spending keeps companies fit for future innovations. 

 Of course, any interest-rate-minded screen wouldn't be worth running without an eye to debt. It always bears repeating: Debt and high interest rates are a bad combination. (That goes for credit card-addicted consumers as well as top multinationals.) So, we screened for debt both relatively and historically. That is to say, we asked for companies with less debt than their industry peers overall (allowing for different debt levels within different industries). Then we demanded the survivors also have less debt now than they have had in the past. Once we set up all our hurdles, we found just 30 companies that passed muster. 

 The simple summary: yes to growing cash, no to growing debt. Be sure to check out the exact recipe to best interpret the screen's results. 

 What caught our eye first is that a biotech biggie like PE Biosystems (PEB) could have such a solid balance sheet. The company is known for its genetic analysis tools. Tony Blair and Bill Clinton may have hinted that new genomic discoveries should be shared (the subtext being "not sold") - but no one denies that there will be a market for gene-sequencing tools. PE Biosystems is capitalizing on that. At the same time, the company also offers tools for protein analysis and new drug screening. 

 PE Biosystems is still spending aggressively on research. But the limits of its aggression are also in view. Last week, the company officially called off its acquisition of Third Wave Technologies. The planned stock swap, announced back in January, came at a time when PE Biosystems' stock fetched about $170, or $85 after February's 2-for-1 stock split. But now, at Wednesday's opening price of $51, the stock trades for 40% less. 

 In a note Tuesday, Robert Olan of Chase H&Q explained that PE Biosystems was relatively inflexible about upping its offer terms and that Third Wave might have resented settling for less in its takeover. (What was estimated to be a $330 million offer is currently worth about $197 million.) Olan and others applauded the amicable parting for demonstrating PE Biosystems' fiscal restraint in executing its growth strategy. 

 Recently, Merrill Lynch's Todd Nelson initiated coverage of the stock with his firm's top rating. In his report, the analyst praised PE Biosystems' strong balance sheet, with $295 million in cash on hand. In addition, he lauded the company's "aggressive spending profile," supporting its "forward-looking nature," while noting that its long, strong history has given it "a financial profile unlike most others." That's what we're talking about. 

 Of course, PE Biosystems' fat cash stash does not mean it's without risk. It just means that in the high-risk world of biotech, this company actually has a rudder. 

 Meanwhile, the semiconductor world is more commonly known for its strong cash flow and low debt. The sector also boasts lofty valuations that defy analysis. But true believers argue that a tech leader is worth paying premium prices for. Everyone seems to know someone who knew someone who invested in Intel (INTC) years ago. The rest is history. 

 So for our screen survivors related to the chip world - PMC-Sierra (PMCS), MIPS Technologies (MIPS), Broadcom (BRCM) and Nvidia (NVDA) - we looked for some leadership. Word on the Street is that Nvidia, a graphic chipmaker, is beating out rival ATI (ATYT) in the lucrative high-end chip market. (ATI recently warned that it would miss its quarterly earnings estimates.) Thanks to Nvidia's rapid rollout of new chip designs, 3D alien invasions haven't been the same. 

 As we wrote back in March, Nvidia scored a huge coup by landing big business from Microsoft (MSFT). The Microsoft X-Box deal has already meant a $200 million payment from Redmond. That helps explain the growth of Nvidia's money tree from $61.6 million in cash in the January quarter to $269.8 million in the April quarter. Talk about a green thumb. 

 Like a good tech company, Nvidia isn't resting on its laurels. It is investing heavily in new products and technology - heavier than it has in the past. And with relatively little debt and good growth momentum, R&D spending looks like a good idea. Greenspan will have to look elsewhere if he wants to see his monetary policy working. 

 Of the smattering of retail stocks that landed in our screen results, we passed over the clothing stores - sorry, Abercrombie & Fitch (ANF) and Chico's FAS (CHCS). We headed to the consumer-electronics aisle to Best Buy (BBY), a stock recently troubled by Office Depot's (ODP) weak profit outlook. When Office Depot cited soft technology sales, Best Buy promptly swooned. 

 As a result, analysts rushed to check up on Best Buy as well as rivals Circuit City (CC) and RadioShack (TAN). For instance, Merrill Lynch's Peter Caruso got on the horn to check out the damage in the PC retail arena. His industry contacts didn't see any reason to fear a similar shortfall, Caruso reported Tuesday. Caruso also spoke to Best Buy management - despite their "quiet period" before earnings - who indicated they "felt very comfortable with the consensus outlook for sales and earnings for the quarter," (in Caruso's words). Consensus puts Best Buy's income at 28 cents per share, up 27%, with sales up between 8% and 10%. 

 But hold on: Everyone knows that interest rate hikes hurt retailers sooner or later. After all, curbing inflation and curbing spending go hand in hand, regardless of debt levels and cash stashes. So how much are the latest hikes hurting? With Best Buy, we'll know a lot more Thursday, when the company reports first-quarter sales data. (Earnings data will follow on June 13.) 

 Yet, despite being a traditional retailer (must we say "bricks-and-mortar" all the time?), Best Buy has some tech spending to do. While Scot Ciccarelli of Gerard Klauer Mattison believes the company is already stealing market share away from its aforementioned rivals, there's more aggressive growth plans in the works. Try not to groan when you read that the launch of BestBuy.com is a spending priority. Now that so many e-tailing mistakes have been made (ahem, boo.com ), BestBuy.com may be able to spend less and get more. Still, it's little wonder Ciccarelli and other analysts worry about the timing of its Internet launch. He's not sure that will jibe well with investors at the moment. 

 It was just about six weeks ago that we ran a related cash screen. This one highlighted an interesting market anomaly: companies that had more cash on hand than their total market capitalization. That is to say, certain lowly valued companies' shareholders could theoretically put claims on cash and get the businesses for free. 

 Without exception, all the companies that fit this odd bill were recent IPOs. But over time, both the cash and the cap for many of these companies have dwindled. The lesson here could be: Companies that raise money aren't worth as much as those that actually make it. That's the New Economy working the old-fashioned way. 

 For more information and analysis of companies and mutual funds, visit SmartMoney.com at http://www.smartmoney.com/

Document dj00000020010805dw5v028wk




 BUSINESS 
 Tunnel vision --- Hot U.S. economy shows signs of slowing down 

AP PHOTO; FROM THE STAR'S WIRE SERVICES
867 words
27 May 2000
The Toronto Star
TOR
1
BU02
English
 Copyright (c) 2000 The Toronto Star 

 U.S. demand for big-ticket manufactured goods sank in April at the fastest rate in more than eight years, even as fatter paycheques left Americans in a strong position to spend. 

 Durable goods orders dropped 6.4 per cent, the U.S. commerce department said yesterday. It was the biggest decline since December, 1991, when they fell 6.5 per cent. Led by a sudden slump in electronics and electrical equipment, the drop surprised analysts, who expected a slight rise. 

 A separate report by the department showed consumers pocketed a robust 0.7 per cent gain in incomes in April, matching a rise in March. That showed the economy was still healthy but possibly cooling off after six interest rate hikes since last June, analysts said. 

 Assante posts loss A big restructuring charge has produced a $12.1 million first-quarter loss at Assante Corp. while revenue was up 57 per cent from a year ago to $116 million. 

 The financial-advisory group said yesterday that, excluding the $23 million charge, its quarterly earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization rose 62 per cent to $19.6 million. Assante - with half a million client accounts at its Canadian financial advisory companies - is currently combining its operations under the Assante name. 

 Industrial prices stable Industrial product prices were unchanged in April, ending 13 straight months of increases, Statistics Canada said yesterday. 

 But prices of raw materials in manufacturing fell 6 per cent, the first decrease in six months, the federal agency said. The decline was based largely on crude oil, without which prices would have risen 0.5 per cent. March was the first time in more than a year oil prices had a downward influence on the index. Prices for petroleum products dropped in April after a deal by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to restore some production after small cutbacks. 

 Sega posts another loss Sega Enterprises Ltd., the world's third-largest home video game maker, has posted its third straight annual loss, despite a jump in sales. 

 The Tokyo-based company said yesterday it lost $598.6 million (Canadian), little changed from a year ago. It lost money again despite a 27.4 per cent jump in revenue from overseas sales of its Dreamcast machine, the world's first 128-bit game player. 

 Derlan gets financing The federal government is providing $9.5 million in a "repayable investment" to Derlan Aerospace Canada to help the Toronto company join aerospace giant Boeing Co. in building lighter and more powerful transmissions for the AH-64D Apache Longbow attack helicopter. The project is to create 19 jobs at the Milton plant. 

 Lucent to buy Chromatis Lucent Technologies Inc., the world's largest telecommunications equipment maker, is close to an agreement to acquire optical networking equipment company Chromatis Networks Inc. for up to $5.7 billion (U.S.) in stock, industry sources said yesterday. 

 Chromatis makes optical equipment for cities, a weak spot in Lucent's product mix, analysts said. Chromatis' Metropolis product allows multi-service traffic - such as voice, data and video - to travel efficiently on optical wavelengths across optical networks in cities. 

 Hydro-Quebec income up Hydro-Quebec ended the first quarter with net income of $675 million, up by $176 million over the same period last year, the utility said yesterday. The growth stems mainly from economic expansion in Quebec and higher U.S. electricity sales. Sales revenue for the first three months was $2.65 billion, up 8.1 per cent over last year. 

 St. Laurent sale approved Shareholders of St. Laurent Paperboard Inc. overwhelmingly approved the paper company's $2.1 billion (Canadian) sale to Chicago-based cardboard giant Smurfit-Stone Container Corp. 

 The vote means the deal can close next Wednesday, making St. Laurent an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Smurfit-Stone. St. Laurent, which employs 4,500 people in Canada and the United States, lost $21 million last year on revenues of $1.15 billion. The year before it lost $20 million on revenues of $1.17 billion. 

 Office Depot warns of loss Office Depot Inc. said yesterday it expects second-quarter earnings to come in below Wall Street estimates, as disappointing sales and a strong U.S. dollar squeezed profits from overseas operations.The Delray Beach, Fla.-based company said it expects to post earnings 4 cents (U.S.) to 6 cents per share below analysts' 24 cents estimate. It's the second time the retailer has issued a profitwarning in the past four quarters. 

 Deal expands Devon Energy Devon Energy Corp., which owns Canada's Northstar Energy, is taking over Santa Fe Snyder Corp. to enter the top five among American-based independent oil and gas companies. 

 The merged $9-billion (U.S.) company, named Devon Energy Corp., will remain headquartered in Oklahoma City. Devon bought Calgary-based Northstar in a friendly $1.3 billion (Canadian) deal in 1998. 

 A young woman walks through a tunnel of glass and video screens on the Expo 2000 grounds in Hanover, Germany. The fair opens to the public June 1. 

Document tor0000020010813dw5r00lz6




US banks slump as tech decline hits investments.

By Adam Jones in New York. 
368 words
27 May 2000
The Times
T
26
English
© 2000 Times Newspapers Ltd. All rights reserved 

Wall Street is reeling from a slump in banking and financial shares that has seen tens of billions of dollars wiped from the stock market value of some firms in a matter of weeks.

The crisis is now starting to affect European banks, shares of which fell heavily yesterday.

After a record run of profitability, American investment banks have been pounded by the decline in technology stocks - they own stakes in many of them - as well as the slowdown in initial public offerings.

The nervousness of private investors, who have watched in horror as the Nasdaq Composite has lost nearly 22 per cent of its value so far this year, has hit stockbrokers who depend on their trades for revenue.

On Thursday Goldman Sachs shares dropped nearly 9 per cent after analysts were warned by the company that its second-quarter results are likely to be disappointing because the value of Goldman's investments in technology stocks has slumped.

News of the downgrade - which could not be called an official profit warning because Goldman chose not to release any information publicly - caused a general decline in the sector on Thursday, compounding previous falls.

Goldman shares are now 41 per cent below their March peak and the company's stock market value has slipped by $22 billion ( #14.7 billion). Lehman Brothers has seen its stock market value cut by a third since March. Merrill Lynch's shares have fallen 20 per cent. Charles Schwab, the popular stockbroking chain, has lost 42 per cent of its stock market value since March.

Trading in the shares of Internet companies drastically tailed off in May, according to analysts at Credit Suisse First Boston.

They said that trading volumes fell 34 per cent this month compared with April as investors shied away from the volatility of Internet stocks.

Ameritrade, an online stockbroker, has seen its stock market value crash by about 28 per cent in the past eight trading days; part of a more prolonged slump that has wiped about $2 billion from its stock price since March.

(c) Times Newspapers Ltd, 2000.

Not Available for Re-dissemination. 

Document t000000020010818dw5r00tbw




DBusiness
Briefly

From Journal Sentinel wire services   
48 words
27 May 2000
The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel
MLWK
Final
01
English
Copyright 2000, The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

Telecom: France Telecom may reach a deal by next week to buy Orange PLC, the British wireless company.

Warning: Office Depot Inc. said its second-quarter profit will fall because of lower-than-expected sales of computers and a stronger dollar.

Document MLWK000020100319dw5r00hd8




BUSINESS
FINANCIAL COMPANIES DRAG DOWN MARKETS

Bloomberg News   
569 words
26 May 2000
Charlotte Observer (NC)
CLTO
ONE-THREE
1D
English
Copyright 2000 The Charlotte Observer. All rights reserved.   

U.S. stocks tumbled Thursday afternoon, wiping out an early Nasdaq surge and hammering financial shares as nervous investors focused on profit worries and the potential breakup of Microsoft.

Goldman Sachs Group Inc. dropped after the firm told analysts that second-quarter profit will likely fall short of expectations. The Dow Jones industrial average had its biggest loss in more than three weeks as Goldman's warning weighed on financial shares, including J.P. Morgan & Co. and Citigroup Inc.

Microsoft Corp. led the Standard & Poor's 500 Index lower after Goldman, Sachs analyst Rick Sherlund said shares would be worth less if the No. 1 software maker were broken up.

"Investors have no tolerance for any sort of bad news," said Alan Skrainka, chief market strategist at Edward D. Jones & Co., and when they hear warnings such as Goldman's, "they sell across that entire sector."

The Nasdaq dropped 65.26, or 2 percent, to 3,205.35, erasing a 2.9 percent gain. The Dow average dropped 211.43, or 2 percent, to 10,323.92, led by J.P. Morgan. The S&P 500 sank 17.53, or 1.3 percent, to 1381.52. Four stocks fell for every three that rose on the New York Stock Exchange, and volume on the Big Board was 7 percent below the three-month daily average.

The Nasdaq surged early, extending Wednesday's rally, as investors bet the gains marked a turning point in the market after the index's five-day, 15 percent slide. That optimism faded as Microsoft shares trailed lower and gains in Intel Corp. and Cisco Systems Inc. evaporated.

Intel gave up a 4.2 percent advance and fell $2.183/4 to $115.183/4, while Cisco's 6 percent surge gave way to a decline of 621/2 cents to $54.50.

The Dow average, down nearly all day Thursday, extended its decline after Goldman Sachs' profit warning.

"That's arguably the best investment banking firm in the business," said Robert Bloom, chief investment officer at Friends Ivory & Sime, which manages $3 billion and hasn't bought any stocks recently as it lets its cash position swell. "If they're not going to make the estimates, it tells you the best-managed and best-positioned companies are having trouble. What does it mean for everyone else?"

Goldman sank $7 to $73 after analysts cut their second-quarter earnings estimates for the company. Analysts at Merrill Lynch & Co. and Sanford Bernstein & Co. lowered their forecasts for the securities firm after the company indicated they may be too high.

Microsoft sank $4.061/4 to $61.50. Goldman's Sherlund issued his remarks after the judge in the government's antitrust suit against the company rebuffed Microsoft's request for six months to rebut the government plan to split the company.

"The duplicate costs, loss of product development momentum and risks of loss of key employees are all among the many concerns if Microsoft were not to win on appeal," Sherlund wrote in a report to clients.

Not all analysts agreed. Joe Farley, an analyst with Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, repeated his buy rating. "We continue to believe that a break-up of Microsoft is arbitrary," Farley said in a note to clients. "We believe the company should win on appeal."

Document CLTO000020090630dw5q00xch


Newscast: Business news   

309 words
26 May 2000
CBS News: Morning News
CBSM
English
(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

JULIE CHEN, anchor:   

Continued weakness sent blue chips and technology shares tumbling on Wall Street. CBS MarketWatch analyst Alexis Christoforous has this morning's business report.   

ALEXIS CHRISTOFOROUS reporting:   

A bruising sell-off in the financial sector took the Dow sharply lower, and erased an early rally here at the NASDAQ. This flip-flop market is becoming a familiar pattern. Jittery investors are buying on the dips but selling on the rally, a sign that we've yet to hit bottom. The catalyst for the selling,  Goldman Sachs. It threw Wall Street for a loop after the brokerage firm sounded a profit warning for the second quarter. The stock sank $7, dragging other financials like  J.P. Morgan and  Citigroup with it.   

Take a look at  Microsoft. It got slammed in this latest session, down more than 6 percent. And analysts that follows this company said  Microsoft stock would be worth less if the software giant were to be broken up. The judge in its antitrust case signaled this week that he's considering a three-way breakup of the company.   

But investors had an appetite for Krispy Kreme. The doughnut maker said profit rose 61 percent last quarter, thanks to strong sales of its famous glazed doughnuts. The company went public here just last month and it rallied more than $3 on the news.   

And there's an IPO in the oven.  California Pizza Kitchen is cooking up a $70 million initial public stock offering. The restaurant chain hopes to make its Wall Street debut sometime this fall.   

And in after the bell news,  AT&T won Justice Department approval to buy  MediaOne Group on one condition. Ma Bell must sell its stake in the Internet access provider RoadRunner to satisfy antitrust concerns. At the NASDAQ Market site, I'm Alexis Christoforous, CBS MarketWatch.   

Document CBSM000020070818dw5q001fh




 Six Veterans of Bank One Are Forming Financial-Services Firm on the Internet   

 By Paul Beckett   
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
546 words
24 May 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
C20
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

 Six former executives from Bank One Corp.'s First USA credit-card business and its WingspanBank.com Internet-banking unit have a new home, but in very familiar territory.   

 Richard Vague, 44 years old, former chief executive of First USA, and James Stewart, 48, former head of partnership and Internet marketing at First USA and former president of WingspanBank.com, have formed a new Internet-only financial-services company called Juniper Financial Corp. Four of their former Bank One colleagues have also joined the firm.   

 The Wilmington, Del., company -- where First USA also is based -- is expected to be unveiled today, backed by $20 million in initial venture capital provided by Benchmark Capital as well as investments by Messrs. Vague and Stewart. Mr. Vague is Juniper's chairman and chief executive; Mr. Stewart is president.   

 Mr. Vague resigned from Bank One in October, and Mr. Stewart left soon afterward, after Bank One issued a surprise profit warning last August that Bank One said was caused by weaker-than-expected performance at First USA, which early last year was plagued by customer-service problems. Former First USA officials have maintained that the underperformance of the unit was caused chiefly by Bank One's reluctance to invest enough in the business to maintain First USA's track record of strong growth. First USA is the nation's second-largest credit-card issuer after Citigroup Inc.'s Citibank unit.   

 Along with Messrs. Vague and Stewart, Clint Walker, former First USA general counsel, is general counsel at Juniper; Ben Brake, former First USA executive vice president, is Juniper's director of marketing; William Seligman, former chief credit officer for Bank One's consumer-lending division, is director of risk management and credit policy; and Joe Venuti, former senior vice president of partnership marketing at First USA, is Juniper's director of business development.   

 And there is one more First USA connection: John Tolleson, who co-founded First USA with Mr. Vague but left the company after it was acquired by Bank One in 1997, will become a director. He is also director of Bank One.   

 Juniper plans later this year to offer a wide range of Internet-based banking and investment services based on credit-card relationships it establishes with its clients. But it is entering the field at a difficult time. More and more Internet-only banks are being snapped up by larger participants in the market, and large banks are increasingly pouring onto the Internet and offering customers the option of visiting a branch or doing their banking online.   

 But Mr. Vague says he is optimistic about the prospects for Internet-based banking, and he says the experience of the former First USA officials in direct marketing should give Juniper an edge.   

 "One of our strongest suits is direct marketing, while most Internet companies out there have little if any skill in direct marketing," he said in an interview. He added, "We don't think large commercial banks are going to be effective competition over the long term, and smaller start-ups tend to be underfunded. We still think the field is absolutely wide open."   

Document j000000020010807dw5o00d04




 Performance Tech Down 55%: Issued 2nd Quarter  Profit Warning 

9 words
22 May 2000
16:13
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

Document dj00000020010805dw5m024h1




 SUNDAY COLUMN - Dive in, gents, boldness is, by all means, no vice. 

1,198 words
21 May 2000
The Nation (Thailand)
THENAT
English
(c) 2000 Nation Multimedia Group Public Co., Ltd

 WASHINGTON - What draws people to the polls is what draws them to a good boxing match - a good fight. This year's match isn't shaping up to be one. George W Bush, a bit right of centre, and Al Gore, a mite left of centre, are taking such moderate positions that there's little difference between the two. 

 There's no real choice and, therefore, no real reason to choose. 

 Historically, passions ran so deep that political combatants sometimes fought with swords or even pistols; until more recently, they clashed with fiery oratory. Who could forget Franklin D Roosevelt's words to clamorous Democrats at a 1936 campaign rally in Madison Square Garden? Never before, he charged, had the "forces of selfishness and lust for power" been so united against one candidate: "They are unanimous in their hate for me - and I welcome their hatred!" 

 Neither Bush nor Gore sees the presidency as a source of inspiring vision, producing bold, transformational change. Rather, they see the office as a seat of pragmatism, dealing step by step with problems as they arise. 

 Admittedly, most American politicians are transactional leaders - negotiators, brokers, compromisers. It's one way they make the political system work, with all its checks and balances and veto traps. But the truly great presidents have been transformational leaders, from George Washington to FDR, whom we remember in part for the enemies they made. 

 Backed up by action, honest presidential anger can be a positive force. In 1962, John F Kennedy gained widespread industry and labour backing to hold down prices. Without warning, Big Steel defied him. In cold outrage, JFK denounced the "tiny handful of steel executives whose pursuit of private power and profit exceed their sense of public responsibility". He then marshalled every executive power in his arsenal to force the steelmakers to back down. It's hard to imagine either Bush or Gore taking such a confrontational stance today. 

 Is transformational leadership possible without a great crisis? Certainly historic emergencies such as secession in 1861 and the Great Depression of the early 1930s propelled Lincoln and FDR into positions in which they 

 could bring about titanic change. 

 But Theodore Roosevelt achieved lasting reforms when the country faced neither depression nor war, and Lyndon Johnson and Ronald Reagan are remembered by their partisans as strong, ideological leaders whose presidencies left a memorable mark on American ideas. 

 Indeed, an art of great leadership is the capacity to convert latent crises into visible and dramatic ones. This was Theodore Roosevelt's central achievement. FDR concentrated not only on the Depression but the forces behind the economic crisis. Woodrow Wilson dramatised the need for international collaboration so eloquently that, even though his League of Nations was destroyed in the Senate, the memory helped produce American support for the United Nations a quartercentury later. 

 In this year's campaign, the problems in education call out for bold solutions. But the candidates don't. Like so many other candidates in the past 30 years, Bush and Gore aspire to be the "education president." None has succeeded before, and these two won't either. Their incremental approach defeats them before they begin. 

 What we need is action on a transformational scale. The solution must involve not only the obvious needs - smaller classes, better school buildings, higher teacher salaries - but also the hungry, illhoused, badly parented and sometimes physically and psychologically ailing students. It involves social conditions that we tend to view as separate from education. 

 Only a transformational president with the necessary transactional skills - a 21stcentury LBJ, for example - could bring about the huge number of reforms required. But centrism not only fails to produce such presidents; it fails to equip the winning candidate with the momentum and the mandate necessary to pull off such a huge feat of transformational leadership. 

 At least, centrists say, a cautious, incrementalist president will always be a safe leader. He may not be bold, but he'll make no major mistakes. I disagree. 

 While the incrementalist tries to carry out his small, stepbystep changes, forces outside government will continue to move with remarkable speed and force. Science, technology, communications, finance, transportation, agriculture, entertainment - all are undergoing relentless change. Leaders in those areas are providing their own transformations, but they aren't responsible to voters. And their changes may not be benign. 

 These powerful forces will put enormous pressures on the presidency, but incremental change will be pitifully inadequate. And any crises in the private sector - a savage recession, for example - will be dumped into the lap of a president who cannot deal with the underlying structural and longterm problems that such crises create. 

 An even greater danger looms in the one area where even an incremental president is strong, perhaps too strong: foreign affairs. Here, when the United States is confronted by a perceived crisis, a frightened people often demandsaction - and a weak president in domestic affairs often sees his chance for greatness. 

 And here almost all institutional limitations on the presidency collapse. There have always been constraints on presidential adventurism in foreign affairs - from the party leadership, the cabinet, even the vice president. But these days the national party leadership has become simply another presidential agency, the Cabinet no longer functions as a policyaking or controlling institution, and the vice president has been demoted to top staff assistant. 

 Fanaticism and turbulence worldwide could overwhelm the presidency with crisis after crisis. The president will be under pressure to respond to the new Kuwaits and Kosovos and East Timors and perhaps the Taiwans that cry for help. 

 So what can be done about a dangerously weak domestic presidency that is, at the same time, a dangerously overburdened warmaking and crisiscoping one? 

 I am certain that we have the intellectual resources to reason out ways of improving the selection and performance of the American president. To that end, I'd like to see a national commission - composed of presidential scholars, political and social scientists, journalists and expresidents - to deal with the toughest questions. 

 For example, can we improve the presidential primaries so that insurgent candidates like McCain and former senator Bill Bradley have a better chance? Or should we jettison the whole primary system and work out a combination of caucuses and conventions to do the job? 

 Can we build a more stable system of military and foreignpolicy officials around the president, perhaps institutionalise the kind of group that helped Kennedy deal with the Cuban missile crisis? Should we consider structural changes such as a constitutional amendment establishing simultaneous fouryear terms for president, senator and representative, thus abolishing the pernicious "offyear" congressional election that tends to rob the president of whatever mandate he secured only two years earlier? 

 We still have time to think our way out of possible disasters. Incrementalists need not apply. 

 - 

 James MacGregor is a Pulitzer Prizewinning historian and a senior scholar at the Academy of Leadership at the University of Maryland. He is the coauthor, with Georgia J Sorenson, of "Dead Center: ClintonGore Leadership and the Perils of Moderation"' (Scribner), published last year. 

 (c) 2000 Nation Multimedia Group Public Co., Ltd. 

Document thenat0020011214dw5l002th


Opinion
A warning to drug companies

184 words
20 May 2000
Athens Banner-Herald
ATHENSBH
English
Copyright 2000. Morris Communications Co. LLC. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

Those fighting AIDS got some powerful allies this week when five of the world's largest drug companies agreed to slash the prices of HIV drugs for people living in poor nations. That means millions of people throughout Africa and the Caribbean Basin living with HIV, the virus that causes AIDS, will now get access to those lifesaving drugs.

Still, the biggest hurdle was the cost of the drugs. The lower prices, though still too high for many, will go far in combating this epidemic. The combination of three or four drugs needed to keep the virus at bay will now cost between $150 and $200 a month in those countries, unlike the $10,000 and $15,000 a year it costs in the United States and Europe.

President Clinton commendably issued an executive order declaring that the United States will not interfere with countries that violate American patent laws to provide AIDS drugs at lower costs.

That should be a warning to the drug companies. Profit margins are never more important than life itself.

-- The Miami Herald

Document ATHENSBH20111107dw5k006xu




 Around the World's Markets - NEW YORK. 

127 words
18 May 2000
The Independent - London
IND
18
English
(c) 2000 Independent Newspapers (UK) Limited . All rights reserved. This material may not be published, distributed or exploited in any way.

 STOCKS FELL as investors decided that interest rates are likely to rise again, curbing profit growth. The Federal Reserve's warning that it is willing to raise rates enough to hold inflation limits "how much someone's willing to pay for a company's earnings," said an analyst. 

 The Nasdaq slid 72.66, 2 per cent, to 3,644.91, after rising 9.8 per cent in four sessions. The S&P 500 fell 18.26, 1.3 per cent, to 1,447.78. The Dow dropped 164.83 points, 1.5 per cent, to 10,769.74. 

 (c) Independent Newspapers (UK) Limited 2000. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, distributed or exploited in any way. 

Document ind0000020010811dw5i00dql




 Asia Is Wary After U.S. Rise In Key Rates --- Many Shares Move Lower Across the Region   

 By Jacob M. Schlesinger and Douglas Appell   
Staff Reporters
1,413 words
18 May 2000
The Asian Wall Street Journal
AWSJ
1
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

 Asian stock markets greeted the U.S. Federal Reserve's half-point interest-rate increase less than enthusiastically Wednesday, with most major markets losing ground.   

 Key indexes suffered declines of 0.8% in Tokyo, 2.1% in Hong Kong and 2.6% in Seoul. In Singapore the broader market slumped 2.1%, hurt by a profit warning by top electronics contract manufacturer NatSteel Electronics. Shares also fell in Sydney and Wellington.   

 Taipei was the only big market to rise; its key index surged 4.1% on the back of healthy gains by several leading technology shares. Several smaller markets bounced back as well, with Kuala Lumpur, Manila and Jakarta all ending higher.   

 Shares in the region opened mostly higher -- after the Nasdaq and the Dow Jones Industrial Average posted triple-digit point gains on Tuesday -- but that euphoria quickly gave way to a more cautious view about the outlook for markets in both the U.S. and Asia, said Marcus Rosgen, the regional stock market strategist with ING Barings in Hong Kong.   

 That nagging uncertainty will make it tough for markets here to shake off their recent weakness in the coming months, he reckons. Indeed, U.S. markets appeared to reinforce that view. At midday Wednesday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was down 1.5% and the Nasdaq Composite Index was down 2.7%, erasing much of Tuesday's respective 1.2% and 3.1% gains.   

 Markets in Asia clearly took Tuesday's stock-market rally in the U.S "with a huge pinch of salt," said Han Ong, the regional market strategist with Salomon Smith Barney in Hong Kong. Still, even another 100-basis-point -- or one full point -- rise in rates this year won't necessarily derail the resilient U.S. economy, and that should leave Asia on a strong growth path, he said. However investors with little taste for volatility may prefer the safe-haven qualities of markets such as Malaysia and China, Mr. Ong said.   

 With most countries in the region adopting flexible exchange rates since mid-1997, there is less pressure on central banks in Asia to slavishly match U.S. rate increases. Hong Kong, with its currency peg to the U.S. dollar, remains an exception and analysts Wednesday predicted the Hong Kong Association of Banks would boost commercial rates Friday by 50 basis points.   

 Elsewhere the reaction was mixed. An economist with South Korea's central bank said the U.S. move wouldn't have an immediate impact on Korean rates unless signs emerged of rising domestic inflationary pressure. But the Philippine central bank quickly matched the U.S. rate increase, with Gov. Raphael Buenaventura citing a need to discourage capital from shifting into U.S. assets.   

 Some observers hope Tuesday's mild U.S. consumer-inflation data, combined with the Fed's bigger-than-usual 50-basis-point rate increase after five quarter-point increases since June, will mark the end of the central bank's tightening cycle. But ING Baring's Mr. Rosgen said investors who jump on every "little factoid" as the basis for their market strategy will be whipsawed. It will take months before a clear picture emerges, he predicts.   

 Looking ahead to its next meeting, scheduled for June 27 and 28, the Fed's monetary policy committee said in a statement that it still believes the economy's "risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate heightened inflation pressures in the foreseeable future."   

 That means more rate increases, possibly another half-point rise, are on the table, which could put Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan in the politically awkward position of continuing to raise borrowing costs as the November elections approach. Futures markets designed to predict coming Fed moves were betting late Tuesday on a quarter-point move in June and then a half-point move by the November vote.   

 Fed officials have stressed repeatedly in recent weeks that they consider the economy to be in a period of ferment and uncertainty, requiring them to maintain flexibility between meetings and to base their decisions heavily on incoming data. A set of reports over the next month showing that growth is finally slowing and inflation remains tame -- such as Tuesday's consumer-price index for April -- could keep future Fed action to a minimum.   

 Though unusually aggressive, Tuesday's rate boost was widely anticipated by financial markets, which barely paused for the announcement to enjoy solid rallies.   

 The heightened Fed campaign -- the increase was the biggest in five years -- is bringing to a close a long period of low interest rates that helped fuel the record-long expansion through the 1990s.   

 The central bank's main instrument, the federal funds rate target that banks use to lend to each other overnight, is now at 6.5%, its highest level since the economy was crawling out of recession in early 1991. The Fed also raised the discount rate used when lending to private banks to a nine-year peak of 6%.   

 Private-sector rates, including mortgages, high-yield and investment-grade corporate bonds, have been moving up in anticipation of the latest Fed action and all are at their highest levels in five years. In the hours after the Fed's announcement, a number of big banks, including Bank of America Corp. and First Union Corp., announced that they were lifting their prime rates by half a point to 9.5%.   

 The prime rate is what banks charge their best customers and use to peg everything from car loans to home-equity loans.   

 Rising rates are beginning to pinch different sectors of the U.S. economy. Mortgage applications and corporate-bond issues are falling a bit.   

 Many Fed officials have barely concealed their disappointment at how little the economy has slowed in response to tightening credit, part of the motivation for shifting strategy and moving in bigger steps. So far, data for April on job creation, industrial production, and even Tuesday's report on housing starts, suggest that the economy roared into the second quarter. Officials also have been frustrated with the stock market's persistence in the face of higher rates, and Tuesday's rally undoubtedly aggravated that concern.   

 That all suggests to the Fed that, despite the claims by many analysts and executives of a low inflation New Economy, demand remains too strong -- "in excess of even the rapid pace of productivity-driven gains in potential supply," as the Fed statement put it.   

 The central bank said it remains concerned about "continued pressure on resources," evident in particular in the recent drop in the unemployment rate to a 30-year low of 3.9%, and the ever-swelling trade deficit.   

 In addition, the Fed's more forceful approach is being driven by fears that inflation may finally be stirring. The gradualist rate-increase strategy of the past year was rooted in a belief that the central bank was acting pre-emptively, quelling inflation before it started. But some recent government reports and anecdotal evidence suggest that prices are starting to pick up.   

 Where the Fed goes next depends heavily on the data, and analysts are deeply split on how much further, if at all, rates will rise. A recent survey of Fed watchers conducted by Macroeconomic Advisers LLC, a St. Louis forecasting firm, showed that about half expect the Fed to pause in June, most of the others expect another quarter-point boost and some expect another half-point increase.   

 Kermit Schoenholtz of securities brokerage firm Salomon Smith Barney said he expects the central bank to raise rates another full percentage point before ending its campaign, because growth will continue at a rapid clip and inflation fears linger. "The Fed has an 18-year track record of bringing inflation expectations down," he said. "That's a remarkable legacy that no one wants to waste for a brief period of temporarily faster growth."   

 Deutsche Bank economist Ed Yardeni predicted that recent tame inflation reports and a slowing economy will prevent further rate increases. "I don't think the inflation numbers justify the Fed risking overkill," he said. "I don't think they'll tighten in June, and by July, Greenspan may declare that the pre-emptive strike against inflation was successful."   

 ---   

 James T. Areddy and Eric Van Zant of Dow Jones Newswires contributed to this article.   

Document awsj000020010803dw5i005wy




 US tonic boosts techs and telecoms shares. 

321 words
17 May 2000
The Scotsman
SC
23
English
(c) 2000

 A RALLY in European techs andtelecoms lifted bourses sharply higher yesterday as investors hoped that the expected aggressive Federal Reserve rates rise o f 50 basis points would be the last for now as data showed that inflation in t he United States remains tame. 

 Ericsson was Europe's top blue-chip gainer, up 9 per cent. The tech and teleco m sectors rose 5.55 per cent and 3.27 per cent respectively. 

 German shares closed up strongly, with the benchmark DAX index closing 2.44 per cent higher at 7,371.06 points, while on the Neuer Markt, the blue-chip NEMAX 50 closed 2.65 per cent higher at 7,007.20. 

 On the DAX, Deutsche Telekom rebounded from a 4.75 per cent fall on Monday to put on 6.68 per cent to 66.15 euros as telecoms stocks across Europe rallied, aided by strong first-quarter results from Spain's Telefonica. Deutsche Telekom 's Internet service unit T-Online also rose strongly, putting on 6.75 per cen t to e43.50. 

 Among the techs, components maker Epcos added 4.92 per cent to e145.10, while the semiconductor maker Infineon rose 2.74 per cent to e76.95. 

 Europe's largest software maker, SAP climbed 4.03 per cent to e621.60. 

 The Paris Bourse also surged with US markets and the benchmark CAC-40 index end ed up 2.58 per cent at 6,557.39 points, just 34 points away from an all-time pe ak of 6,591.44 reached on 8 May. 

 Telecom stocks outperformed with France Telecom and Bouygues up 6.75 and 7.70 per cent respectively. 

 Communications network operator Equant closed up 4.79 per cent, rebounding from steep losses recently triggered by fears it may issue a profit warning or repo rt the loss of an important contract. - Reuters. 

Document sc00000020010816dw5h01i4t




Canada & world
Third World finally gets break on HIV drug costs  

The Miami Herald
338 words
15 May 2000
The Hamilton Spectator
HMSP
Final
C02
English
Copyright (c) 2000 The Hamilton Spectator.  

That initiative was certainly long overdue. But the companies' agreement is just a first step that must be matched with the appropriate mechanisms to ensure that victims get an effective therapy. Trained medical people need to be in place to help those with HIV follow a complex drug regimen.  

Still, the biggest hurdle was the cost of the drugs. The lower prices, though still too high for many, will go far in combating this epidemic. The combination of three or four drugs needed to keep the virus at bay will now cost between $150 and $200 (US) a month in those countries, unlike the $10,000 and $15,000 a year it costs in the United States and Europe.  

Even at those prices in both Europe and the United States, AIDS has been held in check and no longer claims lives like it did decades ago.  

But in poverty-ridden Africa, for example, 34 million people have been infected and nearly 12 million have died. In our part of the world, the onset of AIDS has been most dramatic in places such as Honduras and Haiti, where the drugs are affordable only to a few.  

The five companies' generosity did not come easily. It took more than three years of pleadings to get them finally to agree to cut their prices. Some countries in Africa may see their agreement as too late and insufficient. They want the companies to allow generic copies of the drugs. A day's supply of the drug AZT that sells for $10 in the United States can be bought from generics makers for a little more than $1.  

President Bill Clinton on Thursday commendably issued an executive order declaring that the United States will not interfere with countries that violate American patent laws to provide AIDS drugs at lower costs.  

That should be a warning to the drug companies. Profit margins are never more important than life itself.  

Document HMSP000020051121dw5f00eao




 Cable hits crossroads, faces consolidation. 

 By Reshma Kapadia 
830 words
11 May 2000
03:41
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW ORLEANS, May 10 (Reuters) - The cable TV industry has arrived at a major crossroads of change, facing increased competition, the likelihood of consolidation and the watchful eye of regulators as it attempts to deliver on promises about its offerings in the Internet age, industry officials said. 

 After spending millions laying the groundwork to offer everything from high-speed Internet access to digital services, cable executives gathered at the annual National Cable Television Association convention this week said the industry was now able to talk about performance rather than promise. 

 Demand for digital boxes is growing at a pace that is outstripping supply and the only limit to digital services is equipment makers providing advanced set-tops at a fast enough rate, NCTA President and Chief Executive Robert Sachs said. 

 By the end of the year, he said, about 75 percent of the country's cable systems will be fully two-way and broadband-ready. He expects there will be more than 10 million digital video subscribers by the end of the year. 

 While analysts see potential for cable operators, especially those able to offer a bundled package of services, they warn that the market has factored in certain expectations and it is important that the cable companies begin to deliver. 

 "The market needs to see revenue-generated units added," said Andrew Tisdale, managing director in Morgan Stanley Dean Witter's media group. Industry watchers expect new service penetration to drive growth as cable providers begin offering a range of new services. 

 Cable executives said they are ready to deliver and while most stocks in the sector have taken a beating amid recent volatility, they expect the market to soon realise their potential. 

 "There is more competition coming, but we are adding new services and revenue and are trading at two-thirds of the multiples of other industries that do not have new revenue around the bend," said Brian Roberts, president of Comcast Corp. 

 AT&T Broadband Chief Executive Dan Somers noted that the market does not fully understand the power of the industry. AT&T Corp.'s stock has come under pressure in recent weeks after the long-distance phone company issued a profit warning as it endures the growing pains of providing wireless, high-speed data and cable television services as well as phone service. 

 Its pending merger with MediaOne Group Inc., which will make it the No. 1 cable operator, could be approved by the Federal Communications Commission within a matter of days, FCC Chairman William Kennard said at the convention. 

 "I don't think it (the market) fully understands the power of our industry in the long-term. If we keep our heads down and block and tackle, we will be rewarded in our equity values," Somers said in a panel discussion. 

 As convergence progresses, many analysts and deal makers expect cable operators to come out on top over competitors such as satellite providers, but they also expect a wave of consolidation to sweep through the industry. 

 Credit Suisse First Boston analyst Laura Martin predicted that only three cable providers are likely to dominate the scene in the future: AOL Time Warner, the product of the still pending merger of the Internet media network and media giant announced in January, AT&T and a yet-to-be-determined third player. Deal makers also expect a wave of consolidation on the local front and cross-border transactions. 

 As consolidation takes place and creates powerhouses like AOLTime Warner that encompass content, distribution and Internet service, a host of regulatory issues are likely to crop up. 

 FCC chief Kennard said he would like the marketplace to work out issues that arise voluntarily, but not at the cost of consumers. He noted the recent dispute between Walt Disney Co.'s ABC Network and Time Warner Cable, which resulted in a public and political uproar when viewers in 11 cities were deprived of their ABC programming for more than 36 hours last week, as a reason for concern. 

 "There is an unsettling fear (among consumers) that in the Internet age so many things are beyond their control," Kennard said at a public policy breakfast with cable executive. "When (someone) cuts off people's television choices, it creates a huge debate and public outage." 

 "It has called into question whether the industry can be trusted to be an honest gatekeeper to the Internet and that concerns me," Kennard said. 

 Cable operators have heard the politicians and consumers' outrage loud and clear and repeatedly said that they realise the dispute was a lose-lose situation. 

 "We are going to see a lot less willingness to take this up to deadlines and use customers as pawns," said Joe Collins, TimeWarner Cable chairman and chief executive. "I think the result is that nobody is going to want to see theses things go on with any length or frequency." 

 Reuters/Variety. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw5b00o8a




 High tech crash not all bad says Costello. 

470 words
11 May 2000
10:44
Australian Associated Press
AAP
English
(c) 2000 AAP Information Services Pty Ltd. All rights reserved. Available for personal use but not for sale or redistribution for compensation of any kind without the prior written permission of AAP.

 High tech crash not all bad says Costello 

 CANBERRA, May 11, AAP - The high tech stock crash was not necessarily a bad thing, Treasurer Peter Costello said tonight. 

 Last month's crash wiped billions of dollars off the value of so-called new economy firms, and brought to a sudden end the surge in the share market. 

 However, Mr Costello said the crash did not force a late rethink to this week's Budget. 

 "Well, there was a dip in the stockmarket back in April but the sharemarket recovered most of it's lost ground," he told the ninemsn Internet chat room. 

 "The high technology stocks have come off a bit, particularly in the United States maybe that is a good thing. 

 "But we think the Australian economy will still show strong growth in the forthcoming year." 

 His comments followed a bleak warning earlier today from Hong Kong-based stockmarket guru Dr Marc Faber that the Internet could be a "profit killer" for old economy companies. 

 Dr Faber, who is managing director of Marc Faber Ltd and the author of The Gloom Doom and Boom report, said the benefit from having an internet strategy was effectively lost when every company followed. 

 "If I have a company and am the only one that does something than it has a huge benefit to me, however, if everybody does the same and has an Internet strategy... the economic benefits are no longer obvious," he said. 

 "If I have to judge the impact of the Internet on the world I think it is a huge profit killer." 

 Dr Faber, speaking at the Australian Institute of Company Directors (AICD) conference on the Sunshine Coast today, also warned many Internet companies had no chance of survival. 

 "In Australia I would certainly avoid most of these Internet garbage companies that have no chance whatsoever," he said. 

 "In Japan, Hong Kong, everywhere a lot of these companies have no business and will not survive, period." 

 He said the most successful e-commerce company in the world was online retailer Amazon.com. 

 "They have built this amazing brand in three years where it took Coca-Cola 60 years... the question is how long does it take a competitor to displace you?" 

 Dr Faber said if all the retailers in Australia sold their goods through department stores and ten years later they sold 70 per cent through department stores and 30 per cent through the Internet no one would benefit. 

 "I don't see how the profits would increase dramatically, on the contrary it is a profit killer," he said. 

 (c) 2000 AAP Information Services Pty Ltd 

 All rights reserved. Available for personal use but not for sale or redistribution for compensation of any kind without the prior written permission of AAP. 

Document aap0000020020307dw5b037vk




 Waste Management's profits fall 84 percent 

304 words
11 May 2000
19:06
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 HOUSTON (AP) - Shares of Waste Management Inc. rose more than 20 percent Thursday after the troubled garbage hauler reported higher-than-expected earnings. 

 The company said late Wednesday that its first-quarter net income, excluding special charges, was $161.3 million, or 26 cents per share. That beat the 24-cent expectation of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 However, the Houston-based company had large special items, including $100 million paid to consultants to fix accounting and computer systems and costs related to terminating a pension plan. 

 Including those items, Waste Management said, profits fell 84 percent to $55 million, or 9 cents a share, compared with $346.7 million, or 55 cents a share, a year earlier. 

 Revenues increased to $3.2 billion from $3 billion. 

 Also on Thursday, Merrill Lynch raised its rating on the company's shares from neutral to accumulate. 

 Shares of Waste Management rose $3.06 1/4 to $18.06 1/2 in midday trading Thursday after hitting a peak of $18.31 1/4 , still well below its 52-week high of $57.37 1/2 on June 21. 

 Waste Management has been in financial trouble Houston-based USA Waste Services bought Waste Management in 1998 and took over its name. The company has issued four profit warnings and reshuffled its top management in the past year. 

 Investors have sued the company over insider stock sales before the first profit warning in July. 

 A. Maurice Myers, the company's chairman, president and chief executive since November, said 2000 would be a transitional year to a more-profitable situation. 

 The company has sold more than $1.3 billion of its international operations in order to reduce debt by $385 million in the first quarter, to $11.1 billion. 

Rush

Document aprs000020010803dw5b09ttq




 Colgate-Palmolive Chairman Mark Touts Co's Recovery, New  Products 

260 words
9 May 2000
17:29
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- When Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) issued a stunning profit warning last quarter, its stock plummeted. Rival Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL) fell in sympathy. 

 Colgate has since recovered. 

 Chairman Reuben Mark told this story to the delight of several hundred cheering shareholders at the company's annual  meeting Tuesday morning. 

 Mark credited the bounceback to a hard-lined corporate goal to invest behind driving volume and profit growth. 

 Evidence of this is in gross margins, which continue to increase and now stand at 54.5%. Overhead as a percentage of sales also has decreased slightly to 21.4% in the first quarter from 21.5% in 1999. 

 "We've stared year 2000 very well," Mark said. 

 Colgate continues to push top-line growth through product  innovation. The company introduced 12 new products in the U.S. in 1998 and 14 in 1999. This year, Mark said, Colgate is  expected to bring 19 new products to market. 

 About half of the products have already been launched, including Colgate Sensitive, a toothpaste for sensitive teeth, and Actibrush, a battery powered toothbrush. 

 Colgate's toothpaste business has a 31.1% share of the U.S. market compared to its nearest competitor, Procter & Gamble's Crest, which has a 27% share. 

 Shares of Colgate recently traded up 1 3/16, or 2.1%, at 58 13/16 on volume of 850,100 shares. Average daily volume is  2.4 million. 

 -By Cathleen Egan, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5289 

Document dj00000020010805dw5901xa6


 TOP OF THE NEWS 
 BUSINESS BRIEFS Compiled by Carolyn A. April PERSONNEL: Myhrvold not returning to Microsoft in full-time role 

487 words
8 May 2000
InfoWorld
INFW
Vol. 22, Issue 19
English
 Copyright (c) InfoWorld 2000 

 Nathan Myhrvold, Microsoft's CTO, will not be returning to the company full-time, Microsoft officials said last week. Myhrvold took a sabbatical last year to pursue other interests. He will now act as a special advisor to Bill Gates on a part-time basis, Microsoft officials said. The news did not come as a complete surprise to some observers; Gates' decision in January to make himself Microsoft's chief software architect was a strong indication that Myhrvold would not be coming back, said Rob Enderle, a senior analyst at Giga Information Group, in Santa Clara, Calif. A 14-year veteran at the company, Myhrvold announced his plans to take a one-year leave of absence last June. 

 ACQUISITION: PeopleSoft buys APS to boost data analysis software 

 LOOKING TO strengthen its Enterprise Performance Management (EPM) data-analysis software suite, PeopleSoft last week bought Advance Planning Solutions (APS), which makes software for business modeling. 

 PeopleSoft did not disclose the terms of the cash transaction, which has been approved by the companies' boards of directors but needs regulatory approval. 

 The APS software, Advance, lets users do business planning, financial analysis, and econometric modeling. It will be linked with PeopleSoft applications, according to PeopleSoft officials. 

 PeopleSoft has not determined how it will integrate Advance with its EPM suite, said Chuck Teller, CEO at APS, in Malvern, Pa. 

 Clearly, Advance will complement PeopleSoft's EPM suite as well as other PeopleSoft applications, Teller said. 

 Advance is an Internet-based development platform for building data-modeling applications, and it will enhance EPM's data-modeling capabilities by strengthening the suite's time-based analysis features, such as forecasting and planning, Teller said. 

 FINANCIALS: Novell lowers expectations in Q2 

 NOVELL LAST WEEK issued a profit warning for its second-quarter financial results, saying both revenue and earnings will be substantially lower than the company had previously forecasted. The main factor dragging down Novell's results is a major fall in channel sales, the vendor said. 

 For the second quarter of fiscal year 2000, which closed April 30, Novell expects to announce a total revenue of slightly more than $300 million and earnings per share of about 8 cents, Novell officials said. 

 The earnings-per-share figure is half that predicted by financial analysts polled by First Call/ Thomson Financial. 

 Novell is due to report its full second-quarter results May 23 after the market closes. 

 The company recorded earnings per share of 11 cents and revenue of $316 million in the second quarter of fiscal year 1999, as well as a decline in channel sales during the second quarter of fiscal 2000. Novell also reported a drop-off in its large-account site-license business. 

 The company blamed the decline in its businesses on management and organizational issues within its sales operations. 

Document infw000020010807dw58000xb




 Carriers catch a cold from bad banana business. 

552 words
5 May 2000
Tradewinds
TRADEW
English
Copyright(c) T.R.A.D.E., INC., 2000. All rights reserved. DISCLAIMER TRADE, INC. MAKES NO WARRANTY, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND MERCHANTABILITY. The information is not

 Bananas. That's the way to describe the political manoeuvring over the curved yellow fruit that brings pleasure to ape and man alike. 

 The diplomatic tussle between the European Union and America would be a howling joke if it were not ruining reefer-company balance sheets. 

 And it's not just bananas that have become political: look at the way European Union apples are being protected and stunting imports as well. 

 Ra vi Mehrotra is one of the few ultra-optimists in the refrigerated cargo trades right now. He is trying to raise $100m in New York to help Amer Reefer Nexpand.ew York investment bankers at Salomon Smith Barney are also bullish. 

 They are telling anyone who will listen that reefer rates are ready for a comeback. 

 Certainly some fundamentals appear to point that way. Scrapping levels are increasing, container operators are encroaching less and economic growth in Asia and eastern Europe should spur more demand. 

 But you have got to have quite a rosy view of the world not to be dragged down by the truly appalling "season" that reefer operators have just sailed through. 

 Not all of this has been caused by bananas, of cours,e but they do represent around one-third of all reefer cargoes. 

 Bananas usually are a good diet for shipowners because they are the only fruit that can be shipped 12 months a year. 

 Major exporters such as Chiquita are now so fed up with the "banana war" political stalemate that they are threatening only to serve core contracts. 

 It's not just this finger-shaped fruit that is giving shipowners indigestion. Exports of deciduous produce this year have also been drowned by excessive rain in South Africa and crop difficulties in Chile. 

 On top of this have been sky-high bunker prices, which owners have found impossible to pass on to charterers. 

 And although the rate of reefer containerisation might be dropping, it continues to steal business away from the traditional operators. 

 Reefer freight rates have bee n knocked for six with vessels that need 70 cents per cubic foot lucky to get 40 cents in the spot market. 

 Enterprises Shipholding has just reported a net loss of $9.7m for 1999, as compared with a $15.6m profi t12 months earlier. The figures for 2000 must threaten to look worse. 

 Bergen-based Nomadic Shipping lost $3.3m last year and has already got its excuses in early by issuing a profit warning for the coming 12 months. 

 Reefer shipowners expect to make pretty much all of their serious money between Febru ary and May. This year business ground to a halt at the end of March. 

 The high dollar was the latest difficulty. What apples the Chileans did manage to shake off the trees tended to head for the US, where prices were higher and turnaround times faster. 

 The level of scrapping remains historically high but not nearly high enough if the demand-supply balance is to be stabilised. 

 There is going to be no great bounceback in this sector. It will be just a long hard slog back to recovery built on more scrapping an d further cost-cutting. Reefers used to be the glamour end of shipping. Forget that. 

 (c) 2000 TradeWinds. 

Document tradew0020010818dw55003sm




 Shares shrug off Ken and stargazers' doom US employment figures helped to relieve 

607 words
5 May 2000
The Evening Standard
NS
English
(c) 2000

 Shares shrug off Ken and stargazers' doom US employment figures helped to relieve early boredom as muted trading hit markets. The early trend of buyers appearing on the dips was reinforced, and the Footsie declined from its peak despite benign US figures but still showed a gain of 38.4 at 6238.0.The initial reaction of dealers today was to cast their eyes heavenwards. The election of Ken Livingstone as London's mayor provoked it initially, as a gesture of frustration. But predictions earlier this week by astrologers that, with all the planets lined up, tech stocks would crash, also provoked thoughts of a "double whammy" of politics and bad luck to hit markets.In the event, the Occult and Ken just about managed to lift the boredom suffered by dealers. Stargazers' predictions of disaster for tech stocks failed to materialise 3000 miles away in New York, even though it had been seen by those lookers into the firmament. 

  Nasdaq was generally unaffected and indeed, among UK tech stocks Capita Group led the Footsie up with a healthy gain of 148p, or 10%, to 1675p as it was awarded a key #50 million contract from the Department of Education and Employment to administer the Individual Learning Accounts scheme. Close behind were ARM Holdings, up 51p to 7121/2p, and Misys, up 14p to 750p. Logica fulfilled some of the astrologers' expectations, however, with an 18p fall to 1977p Markets had opened strongly, even though there was not much business around. The Footsie moved ahead 68 points at one stage, leading all the other indices, which were also in positive territory although volume was down to fewer than 600 million shares. Oils remained in favour following Shell figures that enabled the company to gush 19p to 526p. BP results are due next week, and optimism drove up the share price by 22p to 581p. Lasmo enjoyed an advance of 31/2p to 1133/4p following the discovery of gas off the coast of Indonesia. A shock profits warning by US telecoms giant AT&T appeared to have been absorbed by the market. BT regained some lost ground with a 2p rise to 1050p, closely followed by Vodafone with a 51/2p advance to 274p. Strong first-quarter figures from Alcatel sent Marconi straight to the top of the Footsie risers with a 10% gain of 79p to 880p. Steelmaker Corus suffered a bout of profit-taking after yesterday's gains, down 21/4p to 91p, following its five-year contract from Railtrack, which reversed yesterday's fall with a 81/2p gain to 825p.BSkyB continued to suffer from the proposed departure of Elisabeth Murdoch and the shares were in fourth place among Footsie fallers with a 50p setback to 1700p. A large financial institution's hopes to make a strategic relationship with online estate agent Property Internet helped the shares move ahead yet again with a 171/2p gain to 100p. They hit a low of 62p last month, having been as high as 1891/2p only a few days before.Talk of a bidder lifted 365 Corporation by 3p to 1321/2p. Belgo Group added 1/4p to 43/4p on hopes of action by Luke Johnson.Tip-sheet recommendations lifted retailer Ted Baker by 41/2p to 508p. Consumer finance group Provident Financial, which is strong in credit-hungry central Europe, added 15p to 555p. AIM-listed stocks NewMedia Spark, ahead 21/2p to 701/2p, and Delcam, gaining 20p to 2021/2p, were also beneficiaries of the tip-sheets. 

Document ns00000020010815dw55001bf




 Business 
 AT&T SHARES DROP AFTER SLOW-GROWTH WARNING 

 From Tribune News Services 
456 words
3 May 2000
Chicago Tribune
TRIB
Chicago Sports Final ; N
4
English
 (Copyright 2000 by the Chicago Tribune) 

 AT&T's stock plunged Tuesday as the nation's largest provider of long-distance and cable TV services reported a small gain in first- quarter operating profit, but warned of slower growth for the year. 

 The company earned $1.73 billion, or 53 cents per share, excluding one-time factors and certain ownership interests, compared with $1.72 billion, or 61 cents a share, a year earlier, when fewer shares were outstanding. 

 But in a conference call after the report, AT&T cautioned that it now expects to produce full-year operating profit of between $1.80 and $1.85 per share rather than the previous estimate of $1.89 to $1.94. 

 AT&T shares fell $7.06, or 14.4 percent, to $41.94 in heavy volume on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 AT&T also said Tuesday that 6,200 employees were notified during the first quarter that their jobs were being cut as part of this year's $2 billion cost-cutting program, mostly in the company's long- distance operations. 

 The profit warning, the first from AT&T since C. Michael Armstrong took the helm in late 1997, was blamed on a variety of factors, including a faster-than-expected decline in revenue growth from the company's core long-distance consumer business. 

 The forecast also was revised to account for regulatory delays in closing the acquisition of the cable company MediaOne, postponing some of the financial benefits from combining that business with AT&T's cable operation. The deal had been expected to close this month, but probably will be completed in June, AT&T said. 

 More worrisome, however, was the disclosure of weakness in sales of long-distance services to more valuable business customers, offsetting some of the strong growth in Internet, data and other services in that area. 

 "We know where our problems are. We know what to do and how to do it.  . . . We will reignite growth," Armstrong told analysts in the conference call. 

 The first-quarter operating profit matched the 53 cents expected by most analysts, according to a survey by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Including one-time items, first-quarter net income was $1.74 billion, or 54 cents a share; a year earlier, it was $1.08 billion, or 38 cents a share. 

 Revenue came to $15.84 billion in the latest quarter, up 5.8 percent from the combined revenues of $14.97 billion posted a year ago by AT&T and the soon-to-be-acquired operations of Tele- Communications Inc. and IBM Global Network, an Internet-services business. 

Document trib000020010813dw5300uzk




 US STOCKS OFF AS BUYERS SIDELINED BEFORE FRIDAY'S JOBS REPORT. 

414 words
3 May 2000
18:36
Market News International
MARNEW
English
(c) 2000. Market News International, Inc.

 NEW YORK (MktNews) - U.S. share prices were broadly lower 

 Wednesday afternoon as buyers hugged the sidelines ahead of Friday's 

 key jobs report. 

 At 1:15 p.m. ET, the Dow Industrials were down 214.38 at 10516.74 

 and the Nasdaq Composite was off 118.59 at 3666.86. Most sectors were 

 weak, breadth was poor, but volumes, as they have been all week, were 

 light. 

 "People are selling into rebounds, the buyers are gone. There's 

 no reason to step in right now. The closer we get to Friday the more 

 scared people are getting," said Michael Lyons, chief dealer at Dean 

 Witter. 

 Non-farm payroll is expected to be reported up 350,000 in April, 

 though the data will be clouded by the hiring of roughly 150,000 Census workers. The unemployment rate is expected to edge down to 4.0% percent from 4.1% while average hourly earnings are expected to rise 0.3%. 

 "Even if we get a good report that ends worries for 50 basis points, the positive effects will probably be temporary. People will just begin to worry about another quarter-point in June," said Lyons, referring to possible rate actions at the Federal Reserve's May 16 and late June policy meetings. 

 Until mid-session Wednesday, the market had stood up well against strong economic reports, especially last Thursday's gross domestic product and employment cost data. But dealers said nerves have worn thin, with news of a higher-than-expected 2.2% rise in factory orders, a series often ignored by the stock market, causing jitters. 

 Retailers were sharply weaker following a sector downgrade by Goldman Sachs, which reportedly cited an expected downturn in second half consumer spending. Wal-Mart down 4 3/16 at 53 7/16 [WMT], Sears down 2 1/6 at 37 [S] and JC Penney down 9/16 at 16 [KM]. 

 Novell was down 6 3/4 at 10 13/16 [NOVL] in extremely heavy trading 

 after the software company issued a profit warning late Tuesday. 

 Coca-Cola, up 2 at 48 1/2 [KO], and AOL, down 1 1/8 at 56 5/8 

 [AOL], signed a marketing pact, while Bestfoods rose 11 7/16 to 62 

 [BFO] after Unilever urged the company to reconsider its $18 billion 

 buyout proposal. 

 ***MARKET NEWS INTERNATIONAL NEW YORK NEWSROOM 212 509 9270*** 

 [TOPICS: MNUEQ$]. 

 Copyright 2000. Market News International, Inc. 

Document marnew0020010814dw5300co2


 Interest-Rate Hike Fears Sink Tech Stocks 

 Andy Patrizio 
406 words
3 May 2000
08:00
CMP TechWeb
CMPT
English
 Copyright 2000 CMP Media Inc. 

 Wall Street stocks took a beating on Wednesday after a speech by Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan reignited fears of another interest-rate hike. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average slid 250.99 points, or 2.34 percent, to 10,480.13 while the Nasdaq composite index lost 78.14 points, or 2.06 percent, to 3,707.31. The Nasdaq fall came on the heels of a major profit warning from Novell. 

 The sell-off was across the board. Hewlett-Packard dropped 5 9/16 to 132 1/2, VA Linux lost 4 15/16 to 59 7/16, IBM dropped 3 1/4 to 108 1/8, and Gateway lost 2 15/16 to 53. Apple was down 2 13/16 to 115 1/16, Compaq fell 1 3/16 to 27 9/16, and Sun lost 7/8 to 87 3/8. 

 The networking sector also took a pounding, led by Novell. It lost 6 15/16 to 10 5/8, or 40 percent of its value. AT&T dropped 2 1/8 to 39 13/16, 3Com fell 2 5/16 to 39 15/16, and Cabletron lost 1 15/16 to 25. Cisco shed 1 15/16 to 66 1/16, Lucent fell 1 5/8 to 59 15/16, and MCI Worldcom dipped 9/16 to 42 3/8. 

 Among software stocks, Microsoft, though besieged by antitrust litigation, was the sole gainer, up 11/16 to 70 9/16. Computer Associates dropped 3 1/16 to 50, Intuit lost 2 7/16 to 32 1/16, Adobe shed 2 3/4 to 112 3/4, Oracle lost 2 to 75 13/16, and Red Hat dropped 1 3/8 to 26. 

 In the semiconductor sector, National Semiconductor dropped 3 9/16 to 58 7/16, Analog Devices lost 3 1/16 to 68 1/4, Intel lost 2 1/16 to 119 1/16, and AMD was down 1 15/16 to 87 9/16. 

 In the Internet sector, EBay dipped 3 3/8 to 140, Amazon lost 2 to 54 1/8, Network Solutions was down 2 1/4 to 135 3/16, Yahoo was off 1/2 to 122 1/16, and AOL shed 1/2 to 57 1/4. Lycos jumped 6 11/16 to 47 1/4 while RealNetworks gained 1 7/16 to 44 3/4. 

Document cmpt000020010804dw530015z


 Novell's shares tank after  profit warning 

 By Jack McCarthy InfoWorld.com 
299 words
3 May 2000
21:31
InfoWorld Daily News
IWDN
English
 (c) Copyright 2000 InfoWorld Publishing Company. All Rights Reserved. 

 Novell's stock dropped almost 40 percent Wednesday after the networking-software vendor warned on Tuesday that its second quarter earnings and revenue for fiscal 2000 will be substantially lower than expected. 

 The Nasdaq stock exchange closed Wednesday with Novell stock at $10.62, down $6.93 or 39.5 percent. 

 Novell on Tuesday said it expects to report revenue for the quarter ended April 30, 2000, at just over $300 million and earnings per share at about 8 cents. 

 In contrast, the consensus estimate of analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial had predicted Novell's earnings per share would be 16 cents for the second quarter. 

 Company officials said Tuesday in a statement that they blame declines in channel sales for the likely second-quarter losses and added that they are implementing plans to better market Internet software services. 

 One analyst said that the company's Novell Directory Services (NDS) has run up against stiff competition from Microsoft's Active Directory. 

 "Novell has yet to come up with a compelling post-millennium strategy," said Rob Enderle, a senior analyst at market research company Giga Information, in Santa Clara, Calif. How the company "remains relevant in an Internet world" is the key issue Novell needs to address, he added. 

 Novell plans to report its second-quarter results in full after the markets close May 23. 

 Novell Inc., in Provo, Utah, is at www.novell.com. 

 "mailto:jack_mccarthy@idg.com 

 Jack McCarthy is a San Francisco correspondent for the IDG News Service, an InfoWorld affiliate. 

 "http://www.infoworld.com/about/copyright.html

 Copyright (c) 2000 InfoWorld Media Group, Inc. "http://www.infoworld.com

 InfoWorld.com is a member of "http://www.idg.net

 IDG.net 

Document iwdn000020010807dw5300180




Business
PROFIT WOES HIT AT&T SHARES, FUEL WIDER FEARS 

Peter J. Howe, Globe Staff 
1,100 words
3 May 2000
The Boston Globe
BSTNGB
THIRD
D1
English
© 2000 New York Times Company.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.  All Rights Reserved.  

Shares of AT&T Corp. lost nearly one-seventh of their value yesterday as Wall Street punished the phone giant for reporting a first-quarter profit drop and warning that this year's sales and earnings will narrowly miss analysts' forecasts. 

AT&T stock, the nation's second most widely owned after Lucent Technologies, plunged $6.6875 to $41.9375 on the New York Stock Exchange, one of its worst one-day falls since the October 1987 stock market crash. 

News that AT&T expects to miss its yearlong profit goals by just 1 percent seemed to crystallize Wall Street fears that the phone company is struggling to execute its conversion from a dinosaur in the dwindling long-distance phone business to an Internet-age provider of high-speed access, cable TV and wireless services. 

"I think the market generally overreacts to news like this from a financial perspective, but the issues that are being raised are valid and important," said Brian Adamik, a telecommunications analyst with The Yankee Group in Boston. 

"The honeymoon is over," Adamik said. "Now it's all about execution. It's all about signing up customers and lighting up the network. People see the strategy, but they're not seeing the numbers of customers they said they would deliver." 

AT&T is in the middle of a $120 billion "bet-the-company" move into cable television. Its plans to buy MediaOne Group, Massachusetts' dominant cable TV provider, are part of a strategy of delivering telephone, TV and Internet access over upgraded cable lines. AT&T also announced a deal last week to buy Cablevision's franchises in Boston and 38 suburbs. 

In a conference call with stock analysts, AT&T chairman C. Michael Armstrong insisted that "we know where our problems are. We know what to do and how to do it." 

Armstrong said profits for 2000 will be $1.87 to $1.92 a share before special factors, about 2 cents less than previous forecasts. Sales will grow 7 percent to 8 percent, rather than the 8 percent to 9 percent AT&T forecast in December. 

"We will reignite growth," Armstrong promised, adding that the company will eliminate 6,200 jobs by next year, about 4.2 percent of its current work force. 

By most accounts, MediaOne is making far more progress bringing telephone and high-speed Net customers to its cable systems than AT&T. AT&T hopes to close its $58 billion purchase of MediaOne this summer. 

AT&T yesterday confirmed figures reported in The Wall Street Journal that by the end of March it had signed up only one-tenth the 400,000 to 500,000 new customers it had planned to bring into its former TCI cable systems. The company needs to start signing up customers 43 times faster than it did in 1999 to meet its targets. 

MediaOne already has 94,000 telephone customers nationally, and just in Massachusetts and New Hampshire has over 120,000 cable modems in service. 

AT&T still gets three-quarters of its sales from residential and business landline telephone customers, a market where it faces unrelenting competition. 

Bell Atlantic has apparently taken away hundreds of thousands of AT&T long-distance customers in New York state, and is aiming to get into long distance in Massachusetts, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania this year. Other Baby Bells are looking to enter the long-distance market in Georgia and Texas. 

The earnings warning came a week after AT&T spun off $10.6 billion worth of tracking stock in its fast-growing wireless unit in the country's largest initial public offering. 

Some investors grumbled that AT&T should have made its problems in the core business clear before the wireless deal. 

"I wonder why they didn't make us aware of the problems they were having before now. My strong gut feeling is they wanted the wireless offering to go off well," said Jana Harris of the Ohio Public Employees Retirement System. "A lot of people feel misguided or somewhat deceived." 

AT&T Wireless shares fell $2.50 yesterday to $32.0625. 

Also, shareholders of Colorado-based MediaOne are guaranteed $85 in AT&T stock and/or cash for each of their shares as long as AT&T trades between $51.30 and $57. AT&T could be forced to come up with $3.5 billion more in cash if the shares remain at or below the bottom of that range. AT&T's meltdown also dragged down shares of MediaOne, which fell 8 percent to $71.4375 on the Big Board. 

Among numbers reported by the New York company: 

First-quarter profit from operations fell 9 percent to $1.51 billion, or 46 cents a share, from $1.66 billion, or 59 cents, a year earlier. 

Sales rose 5.8 percent to $15.84 billion, but it was the second straight quarter of slowing revenue growth. 

Because of the long-distance price war, consumer long-distance revenue will fall 5 to 7 percent this year, more than the earlier predicted decline of 3 to 5 percent. Business telephone revenue will grow 8 percent, down from a previous forecast of 9 percent to 11 percent growth. 

AT&T Wireless revenues jumped 41 percent in the winter quarter to $2.2 billion, with total US customers - including those of affiliates - climbing 30 percent to 13.1 million. 

Broadband unit revenues, including the former Tele-Communications Inc., bought last year, increased 7.9 percent to $1.5 billion. 

Some analysts speculated that AT&T may create additional tracking stocks or spin off its broadband operations to pump up its stock and bring in new funds to expand. Armstrong would only say that "we keep our options open going forward." 

Over the last 30 months, AT&T shares have risen on average only 17 percent a year, below the 22 percent yearly growth of the Standard & Poor's 500 index and way under top rival MCI WorldCom's 33 percent annual increase. 

"We're in a very volatile market and any news one way or the other is disproportionately reacted to," Armstrong said in a Bloomberg Television interview. He predicted investors will "look at a 1 percent change in outlook in terms of revenue and bring it back into equilibrium."  

Material from Bloomberg News was used in this report.

Document bstngb0020010803dw5300djx




BUSINESS
Fn
AT&T stock falls after  profit warning 

794 words
2 May 2000
Chicago Sun-Times
CHI
English
© 2000 Chicago Sun Times.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.  All rights reserved.  

AT&T's stock fell today as the nation's largest provider of long distance and cable TV services met most expectations with a small gain in first-quarter operating profits, but warned of slower growth for the year. AT&T closed at $41.87 1/2 today, down $7.12 1/2. The company earned $1.73 billion or 53 cents per share in the first three months of 1999, excluding one-time factors and the certain ownership interests that gave AT&T net income of $1.74 billion or 54 cents per share for the quarter. The operating profit matched the 53 cents expected by most analysts, according to a survey by First Call/ Thomson Financial. But in a conference call after this morning's report, AT&T cautioned that it now expects to produce full-year operating profits of between $1.80 and $1.85 per share rather than the previous estimate of $1.89 to $1.94. The profit warning, the first from AT&T since C. 

Michael Armstrong took the helm in late 1997, was blamed on a variety of factors, including a faster-than- expected decline in revenue growth from the long-distance consumer business. 

Ousted Conseco founder gets $83.9 million 

Conseco Inc., still reeling from its foray into consumer lending, gave ousted Chairman and CEO Stephen C. Hilbert a severance package worth $83.9 million, according to an amended Securities and Exchange Commission filing. Out of the total severance package, Hilbert repaid a $23 million loan by the company plus interest to help him avoid a margin call, according to the filing. Hilbert, who founded Conseco in 1979, was ousted Friday after the Carmel, Ind., life insurer reported worse-than-expected earnings. Conseco stock has fallen about 90 percent, a loss of more than $12 billion in market value, since its purchase two years ago of mobile-home lender Green Tree Financial Corp. ``What is there to say,'' said Joan Zieff, an analyst at Goldman Sachs &Co. ``This was his company. Conseco was Steve Hilbert. Nothing surprises me.'' 

Microsoft filing could last into fall 

Microsoft plans to ask for authority to seek government records and subpoena witnesses to support its argument that breaking the company in two would be going too far, a company spokesman said today. Jim Cullinan said he expects a long discovery process to find out how the Justice Department came up with its ``Draconian and overbearing'' proposal. The company is scheduled to file its response to the agency's proposed remedy in the antitrust case on May 10. Microsoft's general counsel, William Neukom, told the New York Times on Monday that the effort could last ``well into the fall.'' Government officials say Microsoft is stalling, possibly to delay a ruling on a remedy until the next presidential administration takes office. 

Ford recalls some SUVs over hitches 

Ford Motor Co., the world's second-largest automaker, recalled 628,703 of its 1997 through 2000 Ford Expedition and Lincoln Navigator sport-utility vehicles to fix loose bolts on trailer hitches. Ford will install new mounting bolts with a higher torque and an adhesive. The automaker plans to notify owners by mail this month to have vehicles repaired at dealerships for no charge. 

Marriott, Hyatt to form online market 

Marriott International Inc. and Hyatt Corp. said today they plan to launch an independent company to provide an online marketplace for the U.S. hospitality industry. Financial terms of the pact weren't disclosed. By linking suppliers with hotel owners and operators through an electronic network, the venture is intended to reduce costs through large-volume transactions. The new company is expected to be up and running later this year. 

Amazon throws in the kitchen sink 

Amazon.com Inc. started selling kitchen supplies on its Internet superstore today, the latest products to be added to Web site of the fast-growing online retailer. Amazon's kitchen store offers a vast array of cooking aids_from everyday pots to hard-to-find supplies_as well as deep editorial content, including recipes, how-to tips and product reviews. 

Grain prices rise on drought fears 

Corn futures jumped to a 17-month high today on the Chicago Board of Trade on rising concerns about drought impact on crops this year. Other grains also finished mostly higher, while soybeans fell. Wheat for July delivery rose 1 cent to $2.65 3/4 a bushel; July corn rose 2 1/4 cents to $2.46 1/4 a bushel; July oats were unchanged at $1.26 1/ 2 a bushel; July soybeans fell 2 1/4 cents to $5.65 1/2 a bushel.  

Document chi0000020010804dw5200crp

Search Summary

 Text((“profit*” same “warning*”) or ("disappoint*" same "result*") or ("decreas*" same "profit*") or ("compan*" same "downturn*") or ("unexpect*" same "loss*"))   Date05/01/2000 to 05/31/2000   SourceAll Sources   AuthorAll Authors   CompanyAll Companies   Subject Not Corporate/Industrial News   IndustryAll Industries   RegionUnited States   LanguageEnglish   Results Found27   Timestamp29 March 2018 6:55  
 Page 63 of 63     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

