 
•	 Late Trading: ITC Deltacom Off; Issued 4th Quarter  Profit Warning
•	 BRIEFING
•	  Dow closes lower but finishes week with solid gain 
•	 NATION/WORLD
•	 STOCKS MIXED WITH DOW OFF 31.81 AND NASDAQ UP 22.14
•	  Dow slips back; Nasdaq rallies on 
•	  LOCKHEED UNLOADS $3 BILLION IN DEBT THE DEFENSE AND AEROSPACE COMPANY ATTRACTED MORE THAN $8 BILLION OF BIDS. 
•	 Newbridge eyes tough changes; Hi-tech firm plans to cut 600 jobs and outsource some operations  
•	  Wall Street Stocks End Mixed With Dow Falling. 
•	  Airport Sees Profit in Turbulent Year 
•	  Process simulation software.(Brief Article) 
•	  SMARTMONEY.COM: Bank One's Growing Credibility Gap 
•	 IN BUSINESS
•	  Rite Aid's Hang-Ups Cost Investors Again --- Shares Dive as Company Leaves Analysts in Dark, Renounces Projections 
•	 Doulton's Y2K fix is a costly cure  
•	  Dell CFO Says Memory Chip Price Rise Has Hit 'Plateau' 
•	  GETTING PERSONAL: Advice On Rite Aid Rx For Disaster 
•	 Rite Aid  warning  hurts stock MARKETS: The drugstore chain says its  profit  forecasts are untrustworthy.
•	  Analysts upset by Rite Aid's latest announcement 
•	 MORNING BRIEFING  
•	  Analysts upset by Rite Aid's latest announcement 
•	  Waste Management takes expected $1.23 billion charge, hires president 
•	  Waste Management takes expected $1.23 billion charge, hires president 
•	  TECH WEEK IN REVIEW: SAP, Siebel Systems, IBM 
•	  BUSINESS IN BRIEF 
•	  Wall Street Awaits Bank One Fix-It Plan For Card Unit 



 Late Trading: ITC Deltacom Off; Issued 4th Quarter  Profit Warning 

332 words
29 November 1999
22:49
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Shares of ITC Deltacom Inc. (ITCD) fell in after-hours trading Monday after the company warned of a fourth-quarter loss wider than Wall Street was anticipating. 

 ITC Deltacom traded recently at 28, according to Reuters Instinet, down sharply from its regular-session close of 31 1/16. The stock climbed 6% during the day. 

 Following Monday's close, ITC said it expects a fourth-quarter loss of 26 cents to 27 cents a share on revenue of $68 million to $69 million. Analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial forecast a fourth-quarter loss of 24 cents a share for ITC. The West Point, Ga., wholesale telecommunications carrier blamed the shortfall on unexpected delays in the availability of networks. 

 Elsewhere, Warner-Lambert Co. (WLA) filed a counterclaim against Pfizer Inc. (PFE), stating it is entitled to terminate the companies' Lipitor agreements. 

 Warner-Lambert said it's seeking to reclaim all rights to Lipitor, alleging that Pfizer intentionally disregarded its contractual agreements and misstated terms of the standstill restrictions to which it had agreed in the Lipitor agreements. 

 Warner-Lambert alleged that Pfizer broached its agreement when it made its Nov. 4 proposal to acquire Warner-Lambert. 

 In late-market trading, Warner Lambert shares hadn't traded, and Pfizer stock changed hands on a par with its close of 37 7/16. 

 Elsewhere, Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN) shares traded at 64 3/8, unchanged from their regular-session finish. The online retailer said after Monday's final bell that its WebHouse Club has attracted more than 40,000 members in its first month of operation. 

 The company plans to offer the WebHouse Club, currently only available in New York, New Jersey, southern Connecticut and Philadelphia, nationwide by the second quarter 2000. The site lets buyers name their own price for groceries online, then purchase the groceries at participating supermarket chains. 


    -Scott Eden; Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5173


Document dj00000020010827dvbt07hxk




BIZ
BRIEFING

1,124 words
20 November 1999
The Denver Post
DNVR
SAT1
C-02
English
Copyright © 1999 The Denver Post Corp. Distributed by NewsBank, Inc.   

Local

CIBER RECEIVES CONTRACT EXTENSION: Ciber Inc., which provides companies, governments and higher-education institutions with the tools for electronic business, announced Friday that a major aerospace company has given it a $12.6 million, four-year contract extension for information systems development, integration and support. The contract, which initially included a series of one-year extension options, now runs through December 2003. Ciber declined to name the company, citing a confidentiality agreement. (The Denver Post)

EARLY APPROVAL FOR QWEST MERGER EXPECTED: Qwest Communications International Inc. and US West Inc. could win approval for the proposed $45.2 billion telephone merger early next year, Federal Communications Commission Chairman William Kennard said. Kennard said Qwest-US West doesn't raise the same policy concerns as recent combinations such as SBC Communications Inc.'s $81.1 billion purchase of Ameritech Corp., which won FCC approval Oct. 6 after more than a year of regulatory review. (Bloomberg)

ATRIX COMPLETES REPURCHASE PROGRAM: Atrix Laboratories said Friday it has completed the $11.5 million stock repurchase program announced in February 1998 - and will start another soon. The new program will be to acquire up to $10 million in common stock or notes as market conditions warrant and will end on Dec. 31. "We are pleased with the new buyback authorization and the increased capability it provides to take advantage of the attractive buying opportunity resulting from our currently undervalued share price," said David Bethune, CEO of the Fort Collins pharmaceutical maker. (The Denver Post)

INSURANCE COMPANY FINED: The Colorado Division of Insurance fined Employers Health Insurance Co., a Wisconsin company that markets indemnity health, group life, group disability and dental insurance in Colorado, $41,750 on Friday. The fine was mainly for failing to properly market and rate basic and standard health plans to small businesses as required by state law. The division also said the company's forms and "utilization review" appeals process were inadequate. (The Denver Post)

SAMSONITE TO OFFER DELIVERY SERVICE: Samsonite Corp. announced Friday it will offer a new door-to-door delivery service for luggage and other travel-related products. Samsonite has teamed with TraveLite LLC, an Illinois-based distribution and logistics company, to provide the Samsonite Virtual Bellhop Service in more than 150 U.S. cities on a test basis. For a fee as low as $65, the Samsonite Virtual Bellhop Service will pick up and deliver to a traveler's ultimate destination a range of items including suitcases, skis and wheelchairs. (The Denver Post)

OPUSWAVE SHOWS PROTOTYPES: Opuswave Networks was chosen as the name for the organization recently created by Siemens Information and Communication Networks Inc. and Omnipoint Technologies Inc. The integrated communications company, launched in August, showcased the first prototypes of its Corporate GSM system at Telecom 99 in Geneva. Corporate GSM integrates PBX voice networks, computer networks and mobile phone services for corporations. The company claims this convergence will help corporations increase productivity and responsiveness while lowering their long-distance costs. (The Denver Post)

Nation/World

STOCK MARKET UNSETTLED: Prices were mixed Friday on Wall Street as the stock market was unable to settle on a clear direction after Thursday's big rally. A profit warning from Caterpillar pushed blue-chip stocks lower, but the Nasdaq composite managed another record high close as technology issues advanced. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 31.81 to 11,003.89, losing ground after a 152-point gain on Thursday. Broader market indexes were mixed. The Standard & Poor's 500 indexfell 2.94 Friday to 1,422.00. The Nasdaq composite index rose 22.14 to 3,369.25, its 13th new high in the past 16 sessions. Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 3-to-2 ratio on the New York Stock Exchange. (AP)

PUBLISHER TO SELL ZDTV STAKE: Ziff-Davis Inc., the largest U.S. publisher of computer magazines, agreed to sell its 64 percent stake in the ZDTV interactive cable-television channel to Paul Allen's Vulcan Ventures Inc., getting $204.8 million from its partner in the venture to help reduce debt. Ziff-Davis, whose more than 80 magazines include PC Week, is selling assets to help boost its share price. The unit of Japan's Softbank Corp. agreed Wednesday to sell its ZD Education unit for $172 million. Ziff-Davis hasn't made a profit since selling shares to the public in April 1998. (Bloomberg)

DELTA PILOTS SPLIT ON PAY: Delta Air Lines Inc. pilots are split over proposed pay for flying Boeing 777 and 767 aircraft because of the impact approving the rates could have on contract talks with the third-largest U.S. carrier. The pilots had to vote by Thursday on pay rates for the Boeing Co. twin-aisle planes, with results expected on Nov. 29. Some pilots are concerned that the proposed rates, which are lower than those initially sought by their union, will hold down pay for other planes being negotiated as part of a new contract. (Bloomberg)

OIL PRICES CONTINUE TO SURGE: The surge in crude oil prices continued Friday as futures reached $27 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange for the first time since 1991. After a more than $2-a-barrel gain in the past week, oil now appears increasingly poised for a move on $30 by year's end - a level that, if sustained, likely will bring sharply higher prices for gasoline, airline tickets and shipped products. Natural gas futures, meanwhile, fell to an eight-month low on forecasts for a mild winter. (AP)

SUNBEAM SETTLEMENT APPROVED: Sunbeam Corp., an ailing appliance maker, won a Delaware judge's approval of a settlement of lawsuits filed by Coleman Co. shareholders who contend they were shortchanged in Sunbeam's 1998 buyout of the camping-equipment maker. A Delaware Chancery Court judge concluded that more than $12 million in stock warrants Coleman shareholders will get for dropping their suits over the decline of Sunbeam's shares last year was a "fair and reasonable" resolution of their claims. (Bloomberg)

UPS SUED ON INSURANCE FRAUD CHARGES: Customers who bought insurance over the past 16 years for packages shipped by United Parcel Service have filed a lawsuit accusing the world's largest package delivery company of insurance fraud. United Parcel Service has not seen the lawsuit but feels it has acted properly and will fight the allegations, the company said Friday. The lawsuit, filed Thursday in Montgomery County, Ohio, Common Pleas Court, seeks $14 billion in compensatory damages. However, if the judge approves it as a class-action lawsuit, that amount would be tripled to $42 billion, attorney James Swaim said Friday. The lawsuit claims that UPS fraudulently collected fees to insure packages when the company was self-insured.(AP)

Document DNVR000020150821dvbk00cd2




 Dow closes lower but finishes week with solid gain 

 Associated Press 
658 words
20 November 1999
Deseret News
DN
D11
English
(c) 1999 Deseret News Publishing Co.

 NEW YORK -- Prices were mixed on Wall Street Friday as the stock market was unable to settle on a clear direction after Thursday's big rally. A profit warning from Caterpillar pushed blue chip stocks lower, but the NASDAQ composite managed another record high close as technology issues advanced. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 31.81 to 11,003.89, losing ground after a 152-point gain on Thursday. The Dow ended the week, which included a big rally on optimism about stable interest rates, with a gain of 234.57, or nearly 2.2 percent. 

 Broader market indexes were mixed. The Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 2.94 Friday to 1,422.00. The NASDAQ composite index rose 22.14 to 3,369.25, its 13th new closing high in the past 16 sessions. 

 Despite the gains in the NASDAQ, investors showed less conviction than they did earlier in the week. Stocks rose sharply after the Federal Reserve indicated it had no immediate plans to raise interest rates despite its third rate increase this year. 

 "We've been in the midst of a vigorous rally, and from time to time, you have to step back and consolidate gains," said Barry Hyman, senior equity analyst at Ehrenkrantz King Nussbaum. 

 Friday was a double witching session, in which quarterly stock and index options expire, forcing traders to adjust their portfolios. These quarterly deadlines tend to increase volume and sometimes make stocks more volatile than usual. 

 "The market has been floundering around a little bit" said Gregory Nie, technical analyst at First Union Securities. 

 The biggest drain on the Dow Friday was Caterpillar, the world's largest maker of heavy machinery. Caterpillar's shares fell almost 12 percent, or by 6 9/16, to 49 3/8 after the company told investors that sales of tractors and other equipment were slower than expected. 

 Caterpillar said profits should come in slightly higher than the 61 cents a share earned in this year's third quarter. But analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial had expected earnings of 97 cents a share. 

 The downward pressure on the Dow, however, was tempered by a rise in IBM shares. A bullish analyst's report about IBM's personal computer business helped push its shares up 6 5/8 to 104 5/8. 

 On the NASDAQ, shares of JDS Uniphase Corp., a maker of fiber-optic equipment, rose more than 5 percent after renowned investor George Soros disclosed he owned almost 440,000 shares. 

 Many other Internet shares also closed higher. Shares of Vertas Software Corp., which helps companies manage data online, rose 7 15/16 to 146 5/8, after a bullish recommendation from an analyst at Warburg Dillon Reed. 

 Portal Software, which makes Internet billing software, reported a narrower than expected loss for the third quarter and saw its shares rise 4 15/16 to 96 15/16. 

 China.com, a Hong Kong-based Internet company focused on electronic commerce, jumped nearly 26 percent, or by 24 15/16, to 117 11/16 after its board declared a 2-for-1 stock split. The company is among a host of Chinese businesses expected to benefit from this week's trade deal that will open China's markets to greater foreign sales and investments. 

 Declining issues outnumbered advancing by a 3-to-2 margin on the New York Stock Exchange, with 1,834 down, 1,224 up and 500 unchanged. 

 NYSE volume totaled 874.32 million shares as of 4 p.m., vs. 1 billion in the previous session. 

 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 0.77 to 461.27. 

 Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average rose 0.21 percent. Germany's DAX index rose 0.10 percent, Britain's FT-SE 100 was down 1.05 percent, and France's CAC-40 closed up 0.32 percent. 

Document dn00000020010827dvbk010fm




Nation/World
BUSINESS
NATION/WORLD

Bloomberg News   
556 words
20 November 1999
Charlotte Observer (NC)
CLTO
ONE-THREE
1D
English
Copyright 1999 The Charlotte Observer. All rights reserved.   

Vodafone's takeover bid turns to war

Vodafone AirTouch on Friday offered $135 billion in stock and assumed debt for Mannesmann AG, Germany's largest mobile phone company, in what may be the biggest hostile takeover ever.

British wireless communications giant Vodafone was forced to go directly to shareholders after Mannesmann Chief Executive Klaus Esser said Thursday any new offer would be unacceptable. Shares of both companies fell, reflecting investors' concern that Vodafone faces a protracted takeover battle, no guarantee of success - hostile takeovers are almost unknown in Germany - and a large bill if it succeeds.

Mannesmann's first line of defense against a hostile takeover is a company bylaw introduced in the 1970s that limits shareholders to 5 percent of the voting rights regardless of their equity stakes. Vodafone CEO Chris Gent has said he expects Vodafone to overcome the rule because it is valid only until June and any transaction may take that long to close.

- Bloomberg News

*

J.A. Jones' parent urges creditors to back bailout

German construction giant Philipp Holzmann AG, the parent of Charlotte-based J.A. Jones, Friday urged Deutsche Bank AG and other creditors to back a package the company said is worth about $1.6 billion to save it from collapse.

Deutsche Bank will decide Sunday whether to save the company that built Berlin's new Reichstag and Deutsche Bank's twin tower Frankfurt headquarters. Holzmann said it will start insolvency proceedings Monday if banks don't accept its plan.

- Bloomberg News

*

Federal rule lets Gates choose his stocks in private

Bill Gates, the Microsoft Corp. co-founder who lives much of his life in the limelight, wants at least to keep his stock picks private.

Cascade Investment, a money management company that buys stocks on behalf of Gates, took advantage of a federal rule that lets institutional investors ask the agency to keep their disclosure form confidential for at least a year. That will let Cascade continue buying stocks without tipping off investors who might seek to emulate Gates' investments.

- Bloomberg News

*

Caterpillar's profit warning takes a toll on Dow Jones

Caterpillar Inc. said fourth-quarter profit will be less than expected because of slumping machinery sales, especially in North America. The warning Friday dragged down the Dow Jones industrial average, where Caterpillar is a component of the 30-stock index.

Caterpillar said fourth-quarter profit will be "slightly above" that of the third quarter, when it had net income of $219 million, or 61 cents a share, on sales of $4.72 billion. Caterpillar was expected to earn 97 cents in the fourth quarter, the average estimate of analysts polled by First Call Corp.

- Bloomberg News

*

In brief

DRESDNER BANK, Germany's second-largest banking group, said Friday it will form a legally independent subsidiary for its investment-banking section as part of a restructuring of its business portfolio.

BANK OF CANADA'S fiscal fourth-quarter profit rose 11 percent to $331 million on higher trading and underwriting revenue, although Canada's No. 1 bank failed to meet its annual earnings per share and cost-cutting targets.

MASSACHUSETTS MUTUAL Life Insurance, the owner of the Oppenheimer Funds family of mutual funds, won approval from regulators to set up a federal savings and loan for its trust services business.

Document CLTO000020090629dvbk02ouf


WALL STREET
BUSINESS
STOCKS MIXED WITH DOW OFF 31.81 AND NASDAQ UP 22.14

102 words
20 November 1999
Press-Telegram
KRTLB
AM
A21
English
Copyright 1999, Press-Telegram. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

Prices were mixed on Wall Street Friday as the stock market was unable to settle on a clear direction after Thursday's big rally. A profit warning from Caterpillar pushed blue chip stocks lower, but the Nasdaq composite managed another record high close.

The Dow Jones industrial average fell 31.81 to 11,003.89, losing ground after a 152-point gain on Thursday. The Nasdaq composite index rose 22.14 to 3,369.25, its 13th new closing high in the past 16 sessions.

Document KRTLB00020101019dvbk00lit




 Business 
 Dow slips back; Nasdaq rallies on 

 Noelle Knox 
ASSOCIATED PRESS
389 words
20 November 1999
San Antonio Express-News
SAEN
Metro
08D
English
(c) Copyright 1999 San Antonio Express-News. All Rights Reserved.

 NEW YORK - Prices were mixed Friday on Wall Street as the stock market couldn't settle on a clear direction after Thursday's big rally. A profit warning from Caterpillar pushed blue chip stocks lower, but the Nasdaq composite managed another record high close as technology issues advanced. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 31.81 to 11,003.89, losing ground after a 152-point gain on Thursday. The Dow ended the week, which included a big rally on optimism about stable interest rates, with a gain of 234.57, or nearly 2.2 percent. 

 Broader market indexes were mixed. The Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 2.94 Friday to 1,422.00. The Nasdaq composite index rose 22.14 to 3,369.25, its 13th closing high in the past 16 sessions. 

 Despite the gains in the Nasdaq, investors showed less conviction than they did earlier in the week. Stocks rose sharply after the Federal Reserve indicated it had no immediate plans to raise interest rates again despite its third rate increase this year. 

 "We've been in the midst of a vigorous rally, and from time to time, you have to step back and consolidate gains," said Barry Hyman, senior equity analyst at Ehrenkrantz King Nussbaum. 

 Friday was a double witching session, in which quarterly stock and index options expire, forcing traders to adjust their portfolios. These quarterly deadlines tend to increase volume and sometimes "The market has been floundering around a little bit" said Gregory Nie, technical analyst at First Union Securities. 

 The biggest drain on the Dow Friday was Caterpillar, the world's largest maker of heavy machinery. Caterpillar's shares fell almost 12 percent, or by 69/16, to 493/8 after the company told investors that sales of tractors and other equipment were slower than expected. 

 Caterpillar said profits should come in slightly higher than the 61 cents a share earned in this year's third quarter. But analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial had expected earnings of 97 cents a share. 

 The downward pressure on the Dow, however, was tempered by a rise in IBM shares. A bullish analyst's report about IBM's personal computer business helped push its shares up 65/8 to 1045/8. 

Document saen000020010829dvbk00v8c




 BUSINESS 
 LOCKHEED UNLOADS $3 BILLION IN DEBT THE DEFENSE AND AEROSPACE COMPANY ATTRACTED MORE THAN $8 BILLION OF BIDS. 

 Reuters 
401 words
19 November 1999
Orlando Sentinel
ORSE
METRO
B5
English
Copyright (c) 1999 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved.

 NEW YORK - Lockheed Martin Corp., under pressure in recent weeks after a profit warning and cuts in its debt ratings, nevertheless found substantial investor demand for $3 billion of corporate debt it sold Thursday. 

 Bethesda, Md.-based Lockheed, the largest U.S. defense and aerospace company, attracted more than $8 billion of bids. More than 300 investors bought the debt. 

 As analysts expected, Lockheed had to pay a higher rate of interest than it would have before the ratings cuts and profit warnings. Still, demand for the debt was heavy enough that the size of the deal was boosted twice from an initial $2 billion, and $2.5 billion when launched Wednesday. 

 Because of the demand, the yields, or interest rates, Lockheed will pay on the debt came in at or below the low end of expectations. 

 Lockheed, whose products include the Atlas and Titan rockets, the F-16 Fighting Falcon, and the external tanks for the space shuttle, sold $750 million of six-year notes to yield 7.99 percent, or 190 basis points (1.9 percentage points) more than U.S. Treasuries with comparable maturities. 

 It also sold $1 billion of 10-year notes to yield 8.202 percent, or 215 basis points (2.15 percentage points) over Treasuries. And it sold $1.25 billion of 30-year bonds to yield 8.535 percent, or 225 basis points (2.25 percentage points) over Treasuries. 

 "Given the credit concerns, the spreads are appropriate," said David Johnson, vice president of fixed-income research for ABN Amro Inc. 

 The debt was "certainly priced to move," he said. "Buyers were looking for some additional protection and compensation for the risk they were taking. The company had to pay up." 

 On Oct.29, Lockheed cut estimated 2000 earnings from $2.15 to $1 a share and free cash flow from $900 million to $500 million. It attributed the change in outlook to softness in the commercial space business, increased investment costs, and some satellite and launch delays. 

 Lockheed also said third-quarter profit fell 43 percent from a year earlier. The company is said to be considering asset sales and consolidation of some core operations. 

 Lockheed employs almost 8,000 in Central Florida in missiles technology, information systems, simulation equipment and rocket launch services. 

Document orse000020010829dvbj01msx




Business
Newbridge eyes tough changes; Hi-tech firm plans to cut 600 jobs and outsource some operations  

Michael Macdonald  
The Canadian Press
370 words
19 November 1999
The Hamilton Spectator
HMSP
Final
B03
English
Copyright (c) 1999 The Hamilton Spectator.  

TORONTO -- "The immediate operational actions we are undertaking represent a significant restructuring of the company," said Pearse Flynn, president and chief operating officer.  

The Ottawa-area high-tech company reported revenue of $481 million US ($704 million Cdn) for the quarter ended Oct. 31, with earnings per share of eight cents US or $302 million US ($442 million Cdn).  

A recent survey of investment analysts suggested they were expecting much higher profits.  

"The disappointing results of the quarter compelled us to accelerate the deployment of a comprehensive strategic action plan," said Terry Matthews, Newbridge's founder and chief executive.  

A loud chorus of analysts and investors have been pushing the company to change direction or put itself on the auction block. But Matthews, who owns 20 per cent of Newbridge's shares, is thought to be reluctant about giving up his stake in the company he created.  

The corporate shakeup follows the embattled company's failure to meet stock market expectations during six of the previous 10 fiscal quarters.  

Newbridge, based in Kanata, Ont., has been the subject of several waves of takeover rumours for the last two years. The company, which employs about 6,000 worldwide, is best known for the sophisticated switching gear it makes for telecom operators.  

Earlier this month, Newbridge stock bottomed out at $20.60, a 52-week low. In January, the company's shares were trading above $60. They peaked at $95 two years ago.  

The latest stock slide followed yet another profit warning on Nov. 2. That prompted the resignation of company president Alan Lutz, who was quickly replaced by Flynn, Newbridge's general manager for Europe, the Middle East and Africa.  

However, a recent series of published reports suggesting an imminent takeover by European telecom giants have boosted the company's share price by more than 40 per cent.  

Newbridge closed at $29.35 yesterday, up $1.50 on the Toronto stock market.  

The company has steadfastly refused to talk about the takeover rumours, which have included speculation that Ericsson of Sweden has considered buying a stake in the company.  

Document HMSP000020051120dvbj00ab4




 Wall Street Stocks End Mixed With Dow Falling. 

326 words
19 November 1999
23:59
Xinhua News Agency
XNEWS
English
(c) Copyright 1999 Xinhua News Agency

 NEW YORK, November 19 (Xinhua) - Wall Street stocks ended mixed Friday with the Dow Jones industrial average falling on a profit warning from the world largest heavy machinery maker Caterpillar. 

     At the close of the trading, the Dow index fell 31.81 at 

 11,003.89. The blue chip index rose 152.61 points Thursday. 

     Broader stock indicators were mostly lower. The Standard & 

 Poor's 500 index fell 2.94 at 1,422.00 but the technology heavy Nasdaq composite index rose 22.14 at 3,369.25, surpassing the record closing high of 3,347.11 points set Thursday. 

 The Dow index fell as Caterpillar warned that its fourth quarter profits will be slightly higher than 61 cents a share earned in the previous quarter but lower than 97 cents expected by analysts. 

 But the index trimmed its losses because of IBM's report on good performance. Shares of IBM, the Dow's component, rose higher. 

 The Nasdaq index was pushed higher as China.com, a Hong Kong-based Internet company, declared a 2-to-1 stock split. The company benefited from the Sino-U.S. trade deal on China's entry into the World Trade Organization this week and its share jumped nearly 22 percent after the stock split. 

 Among other Internet companies which closed higher were JDS Uniphase Corp., a fiber-optic equipment maker. The company rose more than 5 percent. 

 The NYSE index fell 2.78 at 646.12 and the Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 0.76 at 461.28. But the American Stock Exchange index rose 3.38 at 826.12. 

 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 3-to-2 margin on the New York Stock Exchange, with 1,834 down, 1,224 up and 500 unchanged. 

 NYSE volume declined to 874.32 million shares from 1.00 billion in the previous session. 

 (c) Copyright 1999 Xinhua News Agency. 

Document xnews00020010913dvbj019m1


 Airport Sees Profit in Turbulent Year 

 PHIL SAHM 
530 words
17 November 1999
The Salt Lake Tribune
SLTR
D1
English
Copyright (c) 1999 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved.

 Higher profits, fewer passengers. 

 Salt Lake City International Airport had an up-and-down year. 

 Net earnings increased from $5.3 million in fiscal 1998 to nearly $7.2 million in 1999 -- a 35 percent jump, according to the airport's annual report. At the same time, the number of passengers coming through the airport dropped from 20.6 million to 20.3 million during the fiscal year, which ended June 30. 

 While passengers and profits gyrated, three people served as airport director from March through July and the facility's major tenant, Delta Air Lines, voiced displeasure with a planned $1.2 billion expansion that would increase airline fees to help pay for the project. 

 "It's fair to say it was a turbulent year," said Cheryl Cook, airport managing director. 

 A large part of the increase in profit came from paying off a bond, which saved about $1.5 million in interest, the report shows. 

 And although the number of passengers dropped, revenue from parking, car rentals, food and other areas of operation did not suffer as would have been expected, Cook said. She cited that as evidence that the airport is operating at full capacity. 

 The year started with a rift among airport executives. 

 Cook, then the airport director of finance and administration, resigned in January over what she called "management differences" but then rescinded her resignation. 

 Executive Director Russ Widmar left in March, taking a job in Kansas City, while the man who succeeded him as interim director, John Wheat, left in July for a position in Florida. Mayor Deedee Corradini appointed Cook managing director after Wheat left. 

 Despite the musical chairs in the director's office, "the focus was kept on running the airport," Cook said. 

 Several proposals to expand the airport came forward during the year. The latest puts a price of about $1.2 billion on a new terminal, separate concourse and systems to transport passengers from one place to another. The separate concourse would allow planes to drop off or pick up passengers away from the terminal. The passengers then could take underground transport systems to the terminal or other areas. 

 But the expansion concerns Delta Air Lines, which operates a regional hub in Salt Lake City. Delta officials have said the Salt Lake City hub is only marginally profitable and if fees on airlines are raised to help fund the expansion, the airline might look elsewhere for a hub. 

 City and airport officials take the warning serious. 

 "For Delta to be comfortable with it [the expansion], it needs a business arrangement that reduces financial impact to carriers," Cook said. 

 Officials are right to heed Delta's warning, said airline industry consultant Mike Boyd of Golden, Colo. Airlines sometimes bluster about pulling out, but Salt Lake City has not been a major profit center for Delta, he said. 

 The growth in passengers that Salt Lake City International experienced in recent years is at an end, and future increases will depend more on economic growth and on decisions made by Delta, or Southwest Airlines, regarding flights in and out of Salt Lake International, Boyd said. 

Document sltr000020010829dvbh00ygy


 Process simulation software.(Brief Article) 

 Laurie Ann Toupin 
196 words
15 November 1999
Design News
DSIN
109
ISSN 0011-9407; Volume 54; Issue 22
English
Copyright 1999 Gale Group Inc. All rights reserved.

 SIMUL8 process management software for medium-size and enterprise-class companies allows users to build and animate models, improve process effectiveness, pinpoint bottlenecks, and communicate the results. SIMUL8 Assistant&#153;, templates, and wizards help make simulation models more accurate and easier to build from scratch. When activated, the Assistant monitors and checks for actions or patterns of behavior that may lead to confusion, mistakes or incorrect analysis conclusions. A warning button flashes when the Assistant finds something. The software runs under Windows 95, 98, and NT 4.0 or higher. Available in single-user and multi-user versions, prices start at $495 per seat. Plug-ins include: SIMUL8 Profit for financial reporting and an ROI analysis tool, TimeView for historical activity reports and Gantt charts, OPTIMIZ to adjust simulations for optimal performance via Neural Network technology, and Transport for materials handling. 

 Simul8 Corp., 2214 Rock Hill Rd. Ste. 501, Herndon, VA 20170; FAX (800) 547-6389; www.SIMUL8.com. 

FULL TEXT Cahners Publishing Company THIS IS THE FULL TEXT: COPYRIGHT 1999 Cahners Publishing Company Subscription: $95.00 per year. Published semimonthly. 44 Cook Street, Denver, CO 80206.

Document dsin000020010827dvbf000v9




 SMARTMONEY.COM: Bank One's Growing Credibility Gap 

 By Megan E. Lundin 
1,049 words
13 November 1999
01:12
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Smartmoney.com 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- If you take a look at our Map of the Market, you'll see that bank stocks soared today as President Clinton signed the banking reform bill and October's anti-inflationary productivity report soothed inflation fears. 

 The regional banks were especially sprightly: Wells Fargo (WFC) jumped 5.1%, Mellon Financial (MEL) soared 6.3% and FleetBoston (FLT) climbed 4.0% - the list goes on. 

 Bank One (ONE), on the other hand, edged up just 3.6%, despite an 11% decline on Wednesday and a multiple significantly below its peers. As investors digested the implications of the Chicago-based company's second quarterly profit warning in a row, some bargain shoppers moved in. But the fact remains that Bank One trailed its sector in one of the strongest sessions for banks in weeks. 

 Chairman John McCoy and his shareholders had better get used to days like these. 

 In Friday morning's editions of the Wall Street Journal, McCoy defiantly tion that he might sell his ailing credit-card business or put the entire bank up for sale. Never mind that analysts are clamoring for a sale or that McCoy himself admitted this week he needs to rethink his strategy in the wake of the latest profit warning. 

 "We're not going to sell the company," McCoy told the Journal. 

 He went on to predict that before long, his troubled First USA credit-card subsidiary would return to higher-than-industry-average growth, although he declined to hang a number on his forecast. "Damn the torpedoes!" seemed to be his dominant battle cry. 

 Well, don't blame analysts for rolling their eyes. "It's one thing to have an earnings warning, but when you announce a second one, people start to think, "How are we really going to believe you going forward?"' says Lisa Welch, a bank analyst with John Hancock Advisors. 

 To get a sense of what it's like to live under that sort of credibility gap, McCoy might want to take a look at this year's stock chart for First Union (FTU). A nalysts loved the stock a year ago, but it quickly fell out of favor after the bank issued two acquisition-related earnings warnings this year. 

 Analysts had suggested - to no avail - that CEO Ed Crutchfield slow down his acquisition spree. And so in May, after First Union said that earnings would come in 40 cents below estimates, a lot of credibility was lost. The stock is down 35% from its January peak and now this onetime aggressor is looking more and more like takeover bait, analysts say. 

 If the credit-card problem were an industrywide phenomenon, McCoy might have a better argument when he says he wants to keep the business. 

 But First USA's problems are all its own. In the two years since Bank One acquired the unit for $7 billion, the bank has poured hundreds of millions of dollars into marketing. But profit margins are shrinking and the unit is losing customers. Worse, it's experiencing an increase in delinquent accounts at a time when delinquencies are declining in the industry. Many blame the customer attrition on the company's implementation of an aggressive late-fee policy, which has since been revoked. 

 Other big card issuers, meanwhile, are doing just fine, says Mark Alpert at Deutsche Banc Alex.Brown. 

 In the third quarter, MBNA (KRB) produced record growth: earnings were up 25% year-over-year. Capital One Financial (COF) grew 36% and Providian (PVN) added 82% and generated near-record account growth. (Of course, Providian is also under investigation for consumer fraud. Nice business, isn't it?) 

 Many analysts agree that the best thing for Bank One shareholders would be for the company to focus on its core banking business and drop the "losers" - First USA and online bank WingspanBank.com. 

 Only a handful of companies could afford to swallow Bank One's total $40 billion market cap - e.g., Citigroup (C) or Chase Manhattan (CMB) - but if Bank One were broken into its parts, it could be easier for companies like Wells Fargo or MBNA to pick and choose among the assets. 

 Anthony Polini, an analyst at Advest, estimates that the bank's core banking franchise could trade in the $39 to $49 range on a stand-alone basis. After a spin off of First USA and WingspanBank.com, he says the bank could earn $2.40 to $2.50 a share in 1999 and $2.60 to $2.70 a share in 2000. 

 Both Polini and Diane Glossman, an analyst at Lehman Brothers, are rating Bank One a Buy - citing the company's low price-to-earnings ratio. The company is now trading at 10 times 1999 earnings estimates and 9.1 times 2000 numbers. 

 But Diane Merdian at Banc of America Securities says there is almost zero earnings visibility, so valuation measures are not particularly meaningful - especially, she thinks, because there's a strong possibility that the bad news out of First USA isn't over. 

 Speculation that Bank One may be an acquisition target is one reason why the stock hasn't completely tanked, says Lisa Welch at John Hancock. It closed at 35 Thursday, after dropping from 39 on Wednesday, and seems stuck in a holding pattern for now. 

 And that's too bad. The fourth quarter is not only traditionally the best for credit-card companies - holiday shoppers are notorious for carrying over their balances - but if Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan gives the market clarity on interest rates Tuesday, it could be the beginning of a big-time bank recovery. 

 First Union's year in the doghouse has come during a prolonged downturn in financial stocks. If McCoy doesn't figure out what to tell Wall Street soon, he risks missing what promises to be a strong, sustained rally. 

 The Bank One chairman canceled his Nov. 15 analyst presentation and rescheduled it for January. He'd better think long and hard in the meantime about how much his cherished credit-card strategy is really worth to him. 

 For more information and analysis of companies and mutual funds, visit SmartMoney.com at http://www.smartmoney.com/

Document dj00000020010827dvbd07b7j


BUSINESS
IN BUSINESS

FROM STAFF AND WIRE REPORTS   
475 words
12 November 1999
The Roanoke Times
RNKE
METRO
A7
English
Copyright © 1999 The Roanoke Times. Distributed by NewsBank, Inc.   

Rite Aid's announcements upset investors

PHILADELPHIA - Rite Aid Corp. has again upset Wall Street analysts by warning investors that they can no longer trust the giant pharmacy chain's profit forecasts.

Shares of the nation's third-largest drugstore chain were unchanged Thursday at $5.37 1/2 a share, after falling $2.56 1/4 , or more than 32 percent, Wednesday on the New York Stock Exchange.

''It's bad news, of course. They don't know what the numbers are and neither do we,'' said analyst Mark Husson, who follows Rite Aid for Merrill Lynch.

Rite Aid, based in Camp Hill, Pa., made revisions Nov. 2 based on preliminary results of its earnings for the first quarter of the fiscal year to $44.4 million from a previously stated $81 million. The company also reported a revised net loss of $21.6 million for the first half of the previous year, compared with an originally reported loss of $10.4 million.

Rite Aid operates seven stores in the Roanoke Valley, four in the New River Valley and one in Bedford.

Union wins biggest Southern textile victory

KANNAPOLIS, N.C. - Organized labor secured its biggest victory in the history of the Southern textile industry this week when Fieldcrest Cannon agreed to accept a unionization vote at six mills.

''After 25 years and five elections, the Fieldcrest workers have finally won a voice on the job,'' said Bruce Raynor, secretary-treasurer of the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees. ''This is a historic day for workers at these plants.''

The agreement affects 5,000 workers and comes in a state where just 4.2 percent of wage and hourly workers are unionized, one of the lowest percentages in the nation.Contract negotiations will begin next month.

Workers at the six mills in central North Carolina voted 2,270-2,102 for union representation in June. The top issue in the union election concerned job changes that have accompanied $50 million in added automation since 1997.

Woman sues Yahoo! for copyright infringement

ST. LOUIS - A New Zealand woman alleges in a federal lawsuit that Yahoo! Inc. infringed on a patent for software that allows people to compare prices for goods and services sold over the Internet.

The copyright infringement claim was filed in St. Louis by SBH Inc. on behalf of Juliette Harrington. She hired St. Louis-based SBH to market her software. Harrington got a U.S. patent April 20 for her software, which simplifies the online shopping process by allowing consumers to use a universal shopping cart to buy products online. Internet shoppers can select items from multiple sites but need to check out only at one location using the patented technology. A Yahoo! spokeswoman said the company does not comment on pending litigation.

Document RNKE000020150929dvbc0110s




 Rite Aid's Hang-Ups Cost Investors Again --- Shares Dive as Company Leaves Analysts in Dark, Renounces Projections 

 By Robert Berner 
Staff Reporter
623 words
12 November 1999
The Asian Wall Street Journal
AWSJ
19
English
(c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 Rite Aid Corp. abruptly canceled a scheduled conference call with analysts, dealing yet another blow to the drugstore chain's credibility and sending its share price tumbling. 

 The company also warned that investors shouldn't rely on earnings projections issued last month by its since-ousted chief executive, Martin Grass. 

 Rite Aid had been expected to conduct the call Wednesday evening. The cancellation was announced in midafternoon, igniting a high-volume sell-off: On the New York Stock Exchange, Rite Aid shares plunged 31%, or $2.4375, to $5.50 Wednesday before trading was halted late in the session. Late in Thursday's trading the stock had dropped to $5.3125. 

 The decline established a 52-week low for the stock, which has fallen about 90% from a high of $51.125 in January. 

 Timothy Noonan, Rite Aid's acting chief executive, and other officers had planned to use the conference call to review the results for the second quarter ended Aug. 28; the company filed those results last week with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. 

 The cancellation suggests the drugstore chain doesn't have a grasp of its financial results, said A.G. Edwards analyst Jack Russo. "They don't know what's going on," he said. 

 Karen Rugen, a Rite Aid spokeswoman, said the call was canceled because management wasn't prepared to discuss details about the fiscal second quarter, such as the reasons for changes in inventory levels or cost of sales. 

 On Oct. 18, the day Mr. Grass was ousted as CEO, Rite Aid said it would restate its earnings over the past three fiscal years, shaving about $500 million in pretax earnings from the results it had reported. 

 Rite Aid gave a first installment in its SEC filing last week, restating earnings for its first quarter of the current fiscal year and the first six months of the previous year. Analysts had been expecting to gain further insight into the chain's accounting troubles from the conference call, as well as guidance on what effect those issues will have on future earnings. 

 Though the results the company reported were unaudited and are still being reviewed by the SEC, Ms. Rugen said the company doesn't expect to "change materially" any numbers it reported in the filing. 

 Ms. Rugen confirmed that the Rite Aid board met Wednesday, and characterized it as a regularly scheduled meeting. She wouldn't comment on what was decided, if anything. 

 Wednesday's news came the day after Rite Aid confirmed that it had recently been contacted by the enforcement arm of the SEC. Though the company said it is unaware of a formal investigation, Ms. Rugen said Rite Aid anticipates such an investigation will take place, given the expected size of the restatements. 

 Rite Aid also jarred investors Wednesday with its warning that profit projections Mr. Grass made in a meeting with analysts Oct. 11 aren't reliable. 

 In that meeting, Mr. Grass said the company expected earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $1.01 billion for this fiscal year, which ends in February, and $1.27 billion the next. 

 Ms. Rugen declined to elaborate on why those projections aren't valid. "We are no longer comfortable with any previous financial guidance, and we are currently giving none," she said. 

 Last month, Rite Aid avoided a cash crunch by renegotiating $2.7 billion in bank loans and receiving a $300 million infusion from Leonard Green & Partners LP. Rite Aid said the fact that it is no longer backing earlier earnings projections won't affect those agreements. 

Document awsj000020010825dvbc00gi5




Business
Doulton's Y2K fix is a costly cure  

Associated Press
277 words
11 November 1999
Kitchener-Waterloo Record
TKWR
Final
F01
English
Copyright (c) 1999 Kitchener-Waterloo Record.  

LONDON -- The company said Wednesday it will lose an estimated $19 million US in sales because the new equipment caused delays of up to 10 weeks in deliveries of its goods to distributors.  

The problem comes as Royal Doulton, which has been making fine china since 1748, approaches its most important period for sales: the weeks before Christmas.  

The new system was installed to avoid problems when the Year 2000 arrives. Many older computers and software programs recognize only the last two digits of the year and could mistakenly interpret "00" as 1900.  

The glitch apparently arose because of problems integrating the new equipment with the company's existing computers. As a result, the china maker was unable to supply distributors when they ran out of inventory.  

Spokeswoman Valerie Baynton said Royal Doulton has solved the problem, but the expected loss is equal to five per cent of Doulton's sales for all of 1998.  

"It's very frustrating," Baynton said.  

The company's profit warning is its latest setback in recent months. Interim sales so far this year, $144.5 million US as of the end of June, are already well below their 1998 level of $173.6 million US.  

Chairman Hamish Grossart said losses for the year would exceed analysts' forecasts of $16 million US.  

Sales of Royal Doulton's traditional tableware have suffered from a decline in formal dining and the rise of convenience foods and TV dinners.  

Tougher competition from Waterford Wedgwood PLC and other china makers have hampered business, as has the company's decision to discontinue shipments to discount retailers.  

Document TKWR000020060206dvbb00dfq




 Dell CFO Says Memory Chip Price Rise Has Hit 'Plateau' 

 By Bob Sechler 
606 words
11 November 1999
21:41
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 AUSTIN, Texas -(Dow Jones)- Tom Meredith, chief financial officer of Dell Computer Corp. (DELL), said recent surges in memory chip prices have reached a plateau, meaning the company shouldn't have to wrestle with unexpected increases in the fourth quarter. 

 Still, Meredith said Dell and other computer makers will have to deal with "the increased costs of memory" going forward, although he said Dell is well-positioned to do so because of its efficient business model and solid relationships with component suppliers. 

 "We feel very good about our fourth quarter, but it is a challenging environment because of component issues," Meredith said. 

 Earlier Thursday, Dell reported third quarter earnings that matched Wall Street expectations, although the company issued a profit warning last month that had caused analysts to set the bar lower. 

 Dell's third-quarter earnings came in at 18 cents a diluted share, excluding charges, compared with 14 cents a share in the year-ago period. Revenue came in at $6.78 billion, 41% more than $4.82 billion in the third quarter a year ago. 

 Last month, Dell warned that an unexpected surge in memory chip prices would cut into third quarter profits, causing analysts to lower earnings expectations to 18 cents a share from a consensus of 20 cents a share. 

 Meredith confirmed Thursday that the higher memory prices shaved about 2 cents a share off Dell's third-quarter earnings. 

 Dell shares were up slightly in after-hours trading, climbing to 43 5/8 from Thursday's close at 43 7/16. The shares climbed 4.8%, or 2, during the day from Wednesday's close at 41 7/16. 

 Overall, Chief Financial Officer Meredith described Dell's third quarter "as one of our best quarters ever." 

 He trumpeted several Dell achievements, such as a 59% increase in its worldwide product shipments and its ascension to the top position in the U.S. PC market. 

 According to research firm International Data Corp., Dell overtook longtime leader Compaq Computer Corp. (CPQ) in the U.S. market during the third quarter by boosting its share of the market to 18% from 14% a year earlier. Meanwhile, Compaq's U.S. market share remained flat at 16%, although it still is No. 1 on a global basis. 

 Meredith said he sees strong PC demand continuing, and he said Dell will benefit inordinately from that demand. 

 "We feel good about the industry growth rate being in the double digits, and we feel we are well positioned to grow at a multiple of that," he said. 

 He said average selling prices, a frequent worry spot for analysts, were down about 3% from the second quarter and about 12.5% from the third quarter a year ago. 

 Net income for the third quarter fell to about 7.1% of revenue from 8% of revenue in the year-ago period. Meredith attributed the decline primarily to the increased cost of memory, most of which Dell had to absorb. 

 He provided few details of the company's upcoming release of its new WebPC, a key element in its strategy of boosting its presence in the home-PC market. 

 "If you liked the iMac (from Apple Computer Inc.), you'll love the WebPC," he said. "It's a pretty exciting product." 

 He declined to say if he expects the WebPC to lower Dell's average selling price. Dell hasn't released sales-price information on the WebPC yet, but most observers expect it to be a low-cost machine. 


    -Bob Sechler; Dow Jones Newswires; 512-236-9637


Document dj00000020010827dvbb07am8




 GETTING PERSONAL: Advice On Rite Aid Rx For Disaster 

 By Lynnette Khalfani 
768 words
11 November 1999
21:02
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 A Dow Jones Newswires Column 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- You've got to pity millions of stock and bond investors these days. 

 Novices and pros alike get misled and misinformed about the prospects of the companies in which they invest. 

 That's bad enough. But what's worse is that often the poor information isn't coming from the companies themselves. Instead, it's generated by the experts that are paid to alert investors to red flags. 

 These "experts" include many Wall Street analysts, accountants and ratings agency officials. 

 Much has been written about how equity analysts are loathe to come flat out and tell investors to dump a stock. Their reticence often stems from the fact that the analyst's firm has an investment banking relationship with the company in question. So an analyst's "sell" recommendation could jeopardize his firm's chances of earning millions of dollars in advisory or underwriting fees. 

 The result is that analysts equivocate or come up with all kinds of euphemisms for saying, in plain English: "This stock is a dog; get out while you can." 

 Unfortunately, the same thing happens in the bond markets because fixed-income analysts are also reluctant to issue "negative" research reports about companies. 


    The Case Of Rite Aid



But at least there are other "neutral" third parties - such as
accounting firms or ratings agencies - to whom investors can turn for
impartial information, right?



Wrong.



Just ask investors in Rite Aid Corp. (RAD).



With more than 3,900 stores, Rite Aid, based in Camp Hill, Pa., is the
nation's third-largest drugstore chain. The company has annual sales of
about $13 billion. In January, the company's stock hit a 52-week high of
51 1/8. And until last month, Rite Aid boasted investment-grade ratings
from both Standard & Poor's and Moody's Investors Service.



But Rite Aid has clearly been ailing lately. This year alone, the
drugstore giant has been plagued by profit shortfalls, earnings
restatements, questionable accounting practices and allegations that it
illegally overcharged pharmacy customers in Florida.



Amid the spate of bad news, both analysts and ratings-agency officials
have been woefully behind the curve.



After an Oct. 12 conference call with Rite Aid, for example, Raymond
James & Associate's senior corporate bond analyst Jon Kyle Cartwright
acknowledged the company had done little to assuage debtholders' fears.
Nonetheless, Cartwright said he was sticking with his buy recommendation
on Rite Aid's bonds.



Moreover, most analysts said at the time that they didn't expect Rite
Aid to be downgraded to junk status.



On Oct. 21, however, Moody's lowered the credit rating on about $9.4
billion in Rite Aid debt - its second downgrade that month for Rite Aid.
The Oct. 21 downgrade reduced the drugstore chain's senior unsecured
bonds to Ba2, or speculative grade. On Oct. 1, Moody's had cut Rite
Aid's rating to Baa3, its lowest investment-grade rating.



Standard & Poor's followed Moody's by one day in downgrading Rite Aid
to junk status.



The downgrades, however, offered little caution - let alone solace -
to investors already burned by the company. After all, Moody's and S&P
classified Rite Aid's debt as high yield only after the company
announced the ouster of its Chief Executive Martin Grass and revealed
continuing operational and financial problems. Even after Rite Aid's
announcements, it took the rating agencies three and four days,
respectively, to act.



Those following the Rite Aid saga know that the bad news didn't end
there.



On Wednesday, Rite Aid issued a press release warning investors not to
rely on profit forecasts made in October by its then CEO Grass. Rite Aid
also abruptly canceled a conference call with analysts (the second time
this year it's done so), leaving investors and Wall Street observers to
question whether new problems had surfaced.



The developments sent the company's stock down 32% and Rite Aid bonds
fell 22 points.



Thursday, shares of Rite Aid hit a 52-week intraday low of 4 1/2 after
a Raymond James equity analyst finally got around to downgrading Rite
Aid stock to underperform from neutral.



As for the ratings agencies, they both say the "outlook" for Rite Aid
remains negative.



Clearly, Rite Aid's troubles show investors once again that you can't
rely entirely on Wall Street for solid - not to mention forward-looking
- investment guidance.
   -Lynnette Khalfani, Dow Jones Newswires, 201-938-4381;
lynnette.khalfani@dowjones.com


Document dj00000020010827dvbb07ahj




BUSINESS
Rite Aid  warning  hurts stock MARKETS: The drugstore chain says its  profit  forecasts are untrustworthy. 

The Associated Press
250 words
11 November 1999
The Orange County Register
OCR
English
© 1999 Orange County Register.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.  All rights reserved.  

Rite Aid Corp.'s stock plunged more than 30 percent Wednesday after the giant pharmacy chain warned investors to no longer trust its profit forecasts. 

The nation's third-largest drugstore chain also canceled a Wednesday conference call with analysts, saying it wanted more time to investigate its second-quarter earnings. 

"It's definitely bad news," said Steven J. Valiquette, an analyst with Warburg Dillon Read. "This would lead me to believe the picture going forward is going to be worse than they previously expected." 

Shares of Rite Aid fell $2.56, or more than 32 percent, to $5.38, in trading at 5:15 p.m. (2:15 p.m. PST) on the New York Stock Exchange. 

Rite Aid does not plan to change its second-quarter earnings; however, the company cannot confirm any other forward-looking financial expectations, spokeswoman Karen Rugen said. 

"What we wanted to make known is that we are no longer comfortable with any previous financial guidance that may have been given on the (Oct. 11) conference call," Rugen said. 

Rite Aid, based in Camp Hill, Pa., shook up the ranks of its management last month, when it alerted investors that it was reviewing its past financial reports. It said at the time that it could wind up revising earnings downward by about $500 million before taxes for the three fiscal years that ended Feb. 27.  

Document ocr0000020010828dvbb0166x




 Analysts upset by Rite Aid's latest announcement 

 By JENNIFER BROWN 
Associated Press Writer
419 words
11 November 1999
05:08
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 1999.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.

 PHILADELPHIA (AP) - Rite Aid Corp. has again upset market analysts by warning investors that they can no longer trust the giant pharmacy chain's profit forecasts. 

 The nation's third largest drugstore chain also canceled a Wednesday conference call with analysts, saying it wanted more time to investigate its second-quarter earnings. 

 "It's bad news, of course. They don't know what the numbers are and neither do we," said analyst Mark Husson, who follows Rite Aid for Merrill Lynch. 

 Rite Aid's stock fell $2.56 1/4 , or more than 32 percent, to $5.37 1/2 , in trading at 5:15 p.m. on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Rite Aid does not plan to change its second-quarter earnings, but the company cannot confirm any other forward-looking financial expectations, spokeswoman Karen Rugen said. 

 "What we wanted to make known is that we are no longer comfortable with any previous financial guidance that may have been given on the (Oct. 11) conference call," Ms. Rugen said. 

 Rite Aid, based in Camp Hill, Pa., shook up the ranks of its management last month, when it alerted investors that it was reviewing its past financial reports. It said at the time it could wind up revising earnings downward by about $500 million before taxes for the three fiscal years that ended Feb. 27. 

 It made revisions Nov. 2 based on preliminary results of it earnings for the first quarter of the fiscal year to $44.4 million from a previously stated $81 million. The company also reported a revised net loss of $21.6 million for the first half of the previous year, compared with an originally reported loss of $10.4 million. 

 On Tuesday, the company disclosed that the Securities and Exchange Commission continues to review its accounting practices. 

 "This would lead me to believe the picture going forward is going to be worse than they previously expected," said Steven J. Valiquette, an analyst with Warburg Dillon Read. "Right now the fear is that if they are more uncertain now about the operating cash flow (than previously), than the fear of bankruptcy over the next 12 months increases." 

 Rite Aid, with about 3,800 stores in 30 states and the District of Columbia, has annual revenue of nearly $13 billion. It also owns pharmacy benefits manager PCS Health Systems Inc. and about 22 percent of the online retailer drugstore.com. 

Rush

Document aprs000020010825dvbb01d61




Morning Briefing Column
BUSINESS
MORNING BRIEFING  

From Associated Press, Bloomberg News, And Post-Dispatch.  
518 words
11 November 1999
St. Louis Post-Dispatch
SLMO
EDITION: FIVE STAR LIFT
PAGE: C2
English
Copyright 1999, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.  

Pfizer may revise its hostile bid for Warner-Lambert  

Pfizer Inc. said Thursday it is considering dropping the special conditions in its $74.6 billion hostile offer for rival Warner-Lambert Co., as it attempts to make the takeover bid more appealing.  

But Warner-Lambert showed no signs of wavering from its $69.8 billion deal to merge with American Home Products Corp., insisting Wednesday that a linkup to create a company to be known as AmericanWarner offers better growth prospects and a richer pipeline of new medicines.  

At stake in the takeover battle is the No. 1 spot in the pharmaceutical industry and the top-selling cholesterol-lowering drug Lipitor.  

Rite Aid profit warning sends its stock plunging  

Rite Aid Corp.'s stock plunged more than 30 percent Wednesday after the giant pharmacy chain warned investors to no longer trust its profit forecasts.  

The nation's third-largest drugstore chain also canceled a Wednesday conference call with analysts, saying it wanted more time to investigate its second-quarter earnings.  

Shares of Rite Aid fell $2.56 1/4, or more than 32 percent, to $5.37 1/2, in trading at 5:15 p.m. on the New York Stock Exchange.  

Roberts brothers sign $32 million Lucent deal  

Brothers Mike and Steve Roberts signed a $32 million, three-year supply contract with Lucent Technologies this week. The deal is the centerpiece of the Roberts brothers' plan to build a digital wireless telecommunications network that will serve all of Missouri except the St. Louis and Kansas City areas.  

The Roberts network is one of 17 Sprint PCS affiliates that are building out the rural and small-city portions of the national Sprint PCS network. Roberts Wireless phones and service will carry the Sprint PCS brand, and Sprint will handle customer service and collections.  

Roberts Wireless Communications has been serving the Jefferson City-Columbia, Mo. market for nearly a year, with about 4,000 customers signed up so far. The company is building towers at the Lake of the Ozarks now.  

Learning Co. chairman, software unit chief out  

Mattel Inc. said Wednesday the chairman and president of its Learning Co. software unit have left, three weeks after the world's largest toymaker said slow sales of educational programs will hurt profit this year.  

Learning Co. Chairman Michael Perik, 42, and President Kevin O'Leary, 45, left for unspecified reasons. A search will be conducted for a new head of Mattel Interactive, the division that includes Learning Co., Mattel Media and the company's Intel Play venture, Mattel said.  

Hermann Cos. purchases a vending packaging unit  

Hermann Cos., a St. Louis-based holding company, has bought a division of Rock-Tenn Cos. of Norcross, Ga. The division makes packaging for the vending industry.  

The purchase price was not disclosed. The division will become part of one of Hermann's subsidiaries, Anchor Packaging Inc. of St. Louis.  

Sales, administration and support services will be moved here. Manufacturing will be moved to Anchor's plant in Paragould, Ark.  

Document SLMO000020040606dvbb00191




 Analysts upset by Rite Aid's latest announcement 

 By JENNIFER BROWN 
Associated Press Writer
419 words
11 November 1999
06:26
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 1999.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.

 PHILADELPHIA (AP) - Rite Aid Corp. has again upset market analysts by warning investors that they can no longer trust the giant pharmacy chain's profit forecasts. 

 The nation's third largest drugstore chain also canceled a Wednesday conference call with analysts, saying it wanted more time to investigate its second-quarter earnings. 

 "It's bad news, of course. They don't know what the numbers are and neither do we," said analyst Mark Husson, who follows Rite Aid for Merrill Lynch. 

 Rite Aid's stock fell $2.56 1/4 , or more than 32 percent, to $5.37 1/2 , in trading at 5:15 p.m. on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Rite Aid does not plan to change its second-quarter earnings, but the company cannot confirm any other forward-looking financial expectations, spokeswoman Karen Rugen said. 

 "What we wanted to make known is that we are no longer comfortable with any previous financial guidance that may have been given on the (Oct. 11) conference call," Ms. Rugen said. 

 Rite Aid, based in Camp Hill, Pa., shook up the ranks of its management last month, when it alerted investors that it was reviewing its past financial reports. It said at the time it could wind up revising earnings downward by about $500 million before taxes for the three fiscal years that ended Feb. 27. 

 It made revisions Nov. 2 based on preliminary results of it earnings for the first quarter of the fiscal year to $44.4 million from a previously stated $81 million. The company also reported a revised net loss of $21.6 million for the first half of the previous year, compared with an originally reported loss of $10.4 million. 

 On Tuesday, the company disclosed that the Securities and Exchange Commission continues to review its accounting practices. 

 "This would lead me to believe the picture going forward is going to be worse than they previously expected," said Steven J. Valiquette, an analyst with Warburg Dillon Read. "Right now the fear is that if they are more uncertain now about the operating cash flow (than previously), than the fear of bankruptcy over the next 12 months increases." 

 Rite Aid, with about 3,800 stores in 30 states and the District of Columbia, has annual revenue of nearly $13 billion. It also owns pharmacy benefits manager PCS Health Systems Inc. and about 22 percent of the online retailer drugstore.com. 

Rush

Document aprs000020010825dvbb01dq2




 Waste Management takes expected $1.23 billion charge, hires president 

585 words
10 November 1999
00:45
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 1999.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.

 HOUSTON (AP) - Waste Management Inc. introduced its new chairman and chief executive Tuesday, then reported a loss of $947.8 million in the third quarter because of a $1.2 billion charge for accounting errors. 

 The third-quarter loss - the Houston-based company already had warned investors about it - marked a 25 percent improvement from a $1.26 billion loss in July-to-September of 1998. The company lost $1.53 per share, compared to a $2.11 per-share loss a year ago. 

 Earlier Tuesday, the company named A. Maurice Myers, president of trucking giant Yellow Corp., as its chairman, chief executive and president. 

 Myers, 59, who was to begin his new job Wednesday, said his mission is to clean up a financial mess. 

 "It's no secret that Waste Management has to restore investor and customer confidence," Myers said in a statement. 

 Myers has been chief executive and chairman at Yellow Corp., the parent of trucking giant Yellow Freight, since 1996. He was credited with returning the company to profitability in one year after three years of losses, restructuring Yellow Freight into five regional units and slashing operating costs. 

 Before that, Myers headed Arizona-based America West Airlines and Aloha Air Group and held a management job at Continental Airlines. 

 Waste Management's third-quarter accounting charge stemmed from a company-wide audit involving more than 1,100 auditors. The company has said it overestimated revenue and incorrectly accounted for some costs, including closing landfills. 

 "The comprehensive financial review ... while painful, provides a solid foundation from which our new management team can rebuild shareholder value," said outgoing chairman Ralph Whitworth. "We are all eager to begin that process." 

 Excluding charges, Waste Management said it earned an operating profit of $279.2 million, or 44 cents a share, 5 cents below the year-ago period and 3 cents below the expectation of analysts surveyed by First Call Corp. 

 Revenues rose 4.3 percent, to $3.39 billion. 

 Waste Management has issued a series of profit warnings since July - shares dropped 37 percent after the first warning. The company's stock has plummeted from about $60 to the $18 range this year, and it has been sued by investors over massive stock sales by company executives. 

 The company has said it will sell non-strategic assets. On Monday, it announced an agreement to sell some properties to Scottsdale, Ariz.-based Allied Waste in exchange for Allied's Canadian operations previously run by Browning-Ferris Industries. 

 Waste Management, the product of a July 1998 deal in which Houston-based USA Waste Services bought larger but financially troubled Waste Management, also has said it will focus more on reducing debt and repurchasing stock to increase share prices. 

 Myers replaces John Drury, who resigned as chairman and chief executive in August, and president Rodney Proto. Robert Miller had been serving as interim chief executive. 

 Yellow said Tuesday it would replace Myers with William Zollars, the president of Yellow Freight. 

 In the nine months ended Sept. 30, Waste Management reported a $282.8 million net loss, a 66 percent improvement from $834.2 million in losses in the same period of 1998. 

 Operating revenues for the first nine months of 1999 were $9.79 billion, up 3.4 percent from $9.46 billion in revenues from the same period a year ago. 

 In trading Tuesday, Waste Management shares fell 43 3/4 cents, to $17.93 3/4 . 

Rush

Document aprs000020010825dvba01726




 Waste Management takes expected $1.23 billion charge, hires president 

585 words
9 November 1999
23:44
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 1999.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.

 HOUSTON (AP) - Waste Management Inc. introduced its new chairman and chief executive Tuesday, then reported a loss of $947.8 million in the third quarter because of a $1.2 billion charge for accounting errors. 

 The third-quarter loss - the Houston-based company already had warned investors about it - marked a 25 percent improvement from a $1.26 billion loss in July-to-September of 1998. The company lost $1.53 per share, compared to a $2.11 per-share loss a year ago. 

 Earlier Tuesday, the company named A. Maurice Myers, president of trucking giant Yellow Corp., as its chairman, chief executive and president. 

 Myers, 59, who was to begin his new job Wednesday, said his mission is to clean up a financial mess. 

 "It's no secret that Waste Management has to restore investor and customer confidence," Myers said in a statement. 

 Myers has been chief executive and chairman at Yellow Corp., the parent of trucking giant Yellow Freight, since 1996. He was credited with returning the company to profitability in one year after three years of losses, restructuring Yellow Freight into five regional units and slashing operating costs. 

 Before that, Myers headed Arizona-based America West Airlines and Aloha Air Group and held a management job at Continental Airlines. 

 Waste Management's third-quarter accounting charge stemmed from a company-wide audit involving more than 1,100 auditors. The company has said it overestimated revenue and incorrectly accounted for some costs, including closing landfills. 

 "The comprehensive financial review ... while painful, provides a solid foundation from which our new management team can rebuild shareholder value," said outgoing chairman Ralph Whitworth. "We are all eager to begin that process." 

 Excluding charges, Waste Management said it earned an operating profit of $279.2 million, or 44 cents a share, 5 cents below the year-ago period and 3 cents below the expectation of analysts surveyed by First Call Corp. 

 Revenues rose 4.3 percent, to $3.39 billion. 

 Waste Management has issued a series of profit warnings since July - shares dropped 37 percent after the first warning. The company's stock has plummeted from about $60 to the $18 range this year, and it has been sued by investors over massive stock sales by company executives. 

 The company has said it will sell non-strategic assets. On Monday, it announced an agreement to sell some properties to Scottsdale, Ariz.-based Allied Waste in exchange for Allied's Canadian operations previously run by Browning-Ferris Industries. 

 Waste Management, the product of a July 1998 deal in which Houston-based USA Waste Services bought larger but financially troubled Waste Management, also has said it will focus more on reducing debt and repurchasing stock to increase share prices. 

 Myers replaces John Drury, who resigned as chairman and chief executive in August, and president Rodney Proto. Robert Miller had been serving as interim chief executive. 

 Yellow said Tuesday it would replace Myers with William Zollars, the president of Yellow Freight. 

 In the nine months ended Sept. 30, Waste Management reported a $282.8 million net loss, a 66 percent improvement from $834.2 million in losses in the same period of 1998. 

 Operating revenues for the first nine months of 1999 were $9.79 billion, up 3.4 percent from $9.46 billion in revenues from the same period a year ago. 

 In trading Tuesday, Waste Management shares fell 43 3/4 cents, to $17.93 3/4 . 

Rush

Document aprs000020010825dvb9016a2




 TECH WEEK IN REVIEW: SAP, Siebel Systems, IBM 

 By Jason Fry and Megan Doscher 
The Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition
2,107 words
6 November 1999
02:12
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- It hasn't been a good few weeks for makers of enterprise-resource planning software. 

 The rumblings began late last month, when details emerged about troubles with Hershey Foods Corp.'s (HSY) ordering-and-distribution system - troubles that stem, ultimately, from a $112 million computer project designed to automate and modernize that system. 

 Hershey offered few details, but it was clear that something was very wrong: Distributors reported candy shortages and trouble getting orders filled, or even getting information about future orders, for the critical Halloween candy season. Hershey's project began in 1996 and was sparked by year 2000 worries and a desire to help retailers keep inventories down. From the beginning, it was clear that the new system would be complex, marrying software from a host of companies and a blizzard of network gear and computers. Originally set to go live in April, the system actually came online in July. 

 Problems became apparent in September, and the company and its various tech vendors are reportedly still working them out. Meanwhile, Hershey's tech vendors weren't exactly quick with the mea culpas: SAP AG (SAP), which makes the R/3 enterprise-resource planning system used by Hershey, said its system wasn't at fault. Siebel Systems Inc. (SEBL), whose software is part of the mix, said they were told they weren't the weak link. 

 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM), hired to make the products from those two firms and Manugistics Group Inc. (MANU) work together, talked about how complex the undertaking was. 

 SAP then got an added dose of bad news this week, as Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) said it had dealt with delays shipping appliances since starting to use a SAP system in September. While Whirlpool said it thought most of the problems had been fixed and things would be back to normal by December, it also said that it had suffered disruptions in the five other countries in which it's used the systems. In other words, shipping woes are normal - a realistic perspective, perhaps, but not exactly a strong sales pitch for ERP software. 

 SAP said it had warned Whirlpool that it had problems generating some data before the system went life, but Whirlpool went ahead anyway. 

 At least SAP wasn't alone. The week also brought to light problems at W.L. Gore & Associates, the maker of Gore-Tex, which sued PeopleSoft Inc. (PSFT), Deloitte & Touche LLP and Deloitte Consulting for punitive damages and treble compensatory damages to be determined at trial, along with nearly $3.5 million in fees and charges. 

 Deloitte was hired to install PeopleSoft software designed to tie together Gore's personnel, payroll and benefits departments. But Gore charged that Deloitte used the project to train newbie consultants, leaving its HR department in chaos. Among the most acidly amusing charges was that an early team of consultants had tested the system by entering fictional employees i nto the database and then couldn't figure out how to remove them, leaving Gore cutting checks to the likes of Donald Duck. 

 Such horror stories aren't new: The roster of companies that has struggled with software installations gone awry includes UOP, a partnership between AlliedSignal Inc. (ALD) and Union Carbide Corp. (UK), defunct drug distributor FoxMeyer Corp., Allied Waste Industries Inc. (AW) and Waste Management Inc. (WMI). And, alas, that roster is only going to grow as more and more companies turn to complex sof tware installations designed to knit together far-flung operations. 

 SAP, PeopleSoft and other companies and consultants don't deserve all the blame. Such complex software installations aren't exactly a well-established science - for all that the Internet and intranets have revolutionized commerce and company's operations, this is still pretty new stuff. 

 Moreover, every company is unique, with its own operations and problems that outsiders need to figure out and address. Companies are tying toget her their systems to head off the Y2K problem, to wring greater efficiencies from their operations, and stay ahead of their competitors. But there's already another force driving a wave of such software installations: the e-commerce boom. Problems similar to the ones that struck Hershey, Whirlpool and Gore can easily strike at companies trying to upgrade their systems - and change their customer-service philosophies - to compete with Internet winners such as Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) and eToys Inc. (ETOY). 

 Mindful of the strong reputation those Internet winners have gained for customer-service, real-world companies are trying to catch up. 

 One of their major efforts has been pursuing the ability to give customers the products they want, anytime and anywhere - a strategy that has been given the annoyingly catchy name "clicks and mortar." If the book you wanted wasn't in stock, you could call it up on a kiosk in the store, or via your mobile phone, and have it shipped to the store, shipped to your home, or shipped to the hotel you'll be staying at. And Web returns could be brought back to the store, instead of shipped back to a warehouse. 

 Bricks-and-mortar companies see clicks-and-mortar as a way to play to leverage the convenience of their stores - the key advantage they have over Web retailers - and the value of the relationships they've built up with customers. But to bring those strengths to bear, the distribution and inventory systems of store operations, catalog units and Web units will have to become a seamless whole: If one hand of a multichannel retailer doesn't know what the others are doing, clicks-and-mortars doesn't work. 

 That's where complex software installations come back into the mix: Some retailers have already tied those systems together, but many others haven't. 

 There's a gold mine out there for the likes of SAP and PeopleSoft and the consultants who knit systems together. Unfortunately, that means more software horror stories will be on the way, too. 

 Hardware and Software 

 -Ford Motor Co. (F) formed a joint venture with database-software giant Oracle Corp. (ORCL) to automate and manage the auto maker's $300 billion supply chain, while General Motors Corp. (GM) agreed to a similar contract with Commerce One Inc. (CMRC). 

 -R.R. Donnelley & Sons Co. (DNY) agreed to convert print titles into e-books for use with Microsoft Corp.'s (MSFT) Reader software, giving the nascent market for electronic books a potential shot in the arm. 

 -NEC Corp. (NIPNY) effectively pulled the plug on its Packard Bell NEC unit, mandating a radical restructuring and withdrawal from the U.S. retail personal-computer market. Meanwhile, an NEC campaign nine years ago warning of what it called a "killer bug" hidden in floppy-disk drives could become an important element in an escalating legal battle over PCs. 

 -A Windows 2000 pricing schedule was disclosed by Microsoft, the first time the software firm has made such information public ahead of shipping a product. 

 -Apple Computer Inc. (AAPL) has purchased Raycer Graphics Inc., a struggling Silicon Valley start-up that makes computer graphics chips, according to people familiar with the matter. 

 -Adaptec Inc. (ADPT) agreed to acquire closely held Distributed Processing Technology for about $235 million. 

 Internet and Online 

 -RealNetworks Inc. (RNWK) said it will issue software code to prevent its RealJukebox program from sending personal data to the company and admitted it had improperly gathered information about consumers' listening habits. 

 -EToys and Gap Inc. (GPS) are planning a partnership to promote each other's brands during the holidays on eToys' Web site and in GapKids and babyGap stores. 

 -General Motors Corp. (GM) aims to turn one-time auto buyers into rate-paying subscribers of Onstar, a system that will offer basic Internet features in cars next year. 

 -Petstore.com received $97 million in funding from a second round of financing and formed an alliance with Discovery Communications Inc. that includes an exclusive license to Animal Planet content. 

 -Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG) is expected to announce that it is creating a division to sell high-speed Internet and telecommunications services to retail tenants of its giant shopping-mall empire. 

 -CoStar Group Inc. (CSGP) has agreed to acquire Comps.com Inc. in a cash-and-stock deal valued at $102 million, part of a big push to develop an Internet-based market for buying and selling office buildings. 

 -Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) announced it is taking a 49% stake in closely held Web publisher iUniverse.com Inc. 

 -America Online Inc. (AOL) is investing $30 million to buy a 3% stake in the Web site of Blockbuster, which hopes to move into electronic delivery of entertainment. 

 -CMGI Inc. (CMGI) tried again to acquire Web portal Lycos Inc. (LCOS), but talks broke down several weeks ago amid disagreements on price and chain-of-command issues. 

 -EBay Inc. (EBAY) took legal steps to block search service AuctionWatch.com Inc. from accessing its Web site, a move that may trigger a larger effort to prevent such services from accessing eBay's site. 

 -America Online was sued by the National Federation of the Blind, who accused the world's largest online service of violating the Americans with Disabilities Act. 

 -Mattel Inc. (MAT) is spinning off a majority stake in one of Learning Co.'s successful businesses, a genealogy Web site. The partners in the venture are injecting $37.5 million in initial funding. 

 -Danny Rimer, an influential Internet analyst, is joining an investment group founded by James Barksdale, former chief executive of Netscape Communications. 

 -HomeGrocer.com Inc. raised $100 million in additional venture funding as it races to create a national service for grocery shoppers using the Internet. 

 -Peapod Inc. (PPOD) named Drayton McLane Jr., a former vice chairman of Wal-Mart Stores Inc., as a director, as the Internet grocer continues to race with rivals to build a nationwide online shopping service. 

 Telecommunications and Cable 

 -Congress is poised to clear a bill next week that would let satellite-TV firms carry network shows, making the satellite industry a stronger rival to cable. 

 -Teligent Inc. (TGNT), a telecommunications newcomer that competes against the Bell companies, secured a $500 million investment from a group led by Hicks Muse and Microsoft. 

 -The two largest wireless consortiums have reached agreement on a pact that eventually may allow about 290 million subscribers to use their cell phones almost anywhere they travel. 

 -A federal appeals court heard arguments in a case that could help make or break AT&T Corp.'s (T) bid to offer high-speed Internet access via cable-television lines. 

 Lucent Technologies Inc. (LU) said it will eliminate nearly 1,680 jobs, or about 1% of its work force, as the company moves away from installing wiring in buildings. 

 -Alcatel SA (ALA) will acquire a 9.5% stake in Thomson-CSF SA in a deal valued at $596.4 million. The telecom-equipment maker said it will pay for the stake by selling part of its 44% stake in nuclear-engineering group ramatome SA. 

 -AT&T is offering a cheaper version of its wireless calling plan, a move likely to spur more demand when some say its network is overburdened in the key New York metro area. 

 -Newbridge Networks Corp. (NN) announced a top executive's resignation, and issued a profit warning. Its shares tumbled. 

 Initial Public Offerings 

 -Online marketing company Be Free Inc. (BFRE) surged after its initial public offering Wednesday. 

 -Cobalt Networks Inc. (COBT) zoomed higher after its initial public offering Friday. The start-up makes appliance servers that run on the free Linux operating system. 

 -European and American investors Wednesday embraced the initial public offering of France's Thomson Multimedia Group, parent of the RCA and GE consumer-electronics operations in the U.S.. 

 -Online ticket retailer Tickets.com Inc. (TIXX) opened at more than double its offering price in initial trading Thursday. 

 -Webvan Group (WBVN), an online grocery-delivery company, got a warm reception on Nasdaq Friday, as its shares rose sharply after its IPO. 

 Earnings 

 -CompUSA Inc. (CPU) reported a net loss of $12.1 million in the first quarter, citing declining sales and a fierce market for personal computers. 

 -Gartner Group Inc. (IT) reported fiscal fourth-quarter earnings well below expectations and warned of lackluster results ahead. 

 -GoTo.com Inc. (GOTO) reported third-quarter results that stormed past analysts' expectations. 

 -Infinium Software Inc. (INFM) posted earnings that beat analysts' expectations and announced a plan to buy back about one-fifth of its common stock. 

Document dj00000020010827dvb60784d




 Business 
 BUSINESS IN BRIEF 

Star-Ledger Staff
1,298 words
5 November 1999
The Star-Ledger Newark, NJ
NSL
FINAL
045
English
(c) 1999 The Star-Ledger. All rights reserved.

 KeySpan buying owner of Boston Gas NEW YORK - KeySpan Corp., a New York electric and natural-gas company, agreed to buy Eastern Enterprises, owner of Boston's gas utility, for $2.5 billion in cash and assumed debt to enter New England's growing gas market and boost its customer base by a third. 

 KeySpan, owner of Brooklyn Union Gas, said the purchase will make it the largest gas distribution company in the Northeast. It will pay $64 a share in cash, a 24 percent premium to Wednesday's close, and take on $800 million in debt and preferred stock. 

 Buying Eastern, owner of the Boston Gas Co., will leave KeySpan with annual sales of $4.3 billion and 2.4 million customers. 

 The Eastern transaction will be KeySpan's first major buyout since it merged with Long Island Lighting Co. in May 1998. 

 Shares of KeySpan, which splits its headquarters between the town of Hicksville on Long Island and Brooklyn, N.Y., fell 1-9/16 to 28 on the New York Stock Exchange. KeySpan's shares have fallen 13 percent since the Lilco merger. JDS Uniphase buying Optical Coating Labs SAN JOSE, Calif. - JDS Uniphase Corp. is buying Optical Coating Laboratory Inc. for about $2.8 billion in stock in a combination of companies making products to broaden the capacity of the fiber-optic networks that make up the Internet. 

 Fiber-optic technology has quickly become the hottest sector of the networking equipment market as telecommunications companies try to prepare for an anticipated explosion in Internet traffic. 

 JDS Uniphase makes equipment used to drive fiber-optic networks, while Optical Coating makes coatings that control and enhance light and are used in products ranging from computer monitors and photocopiers to satellites. 

 JDS Uniphase stock closed at 191-7/16 on Wednesday on the Nasdaq stock market. At that price, the holders of Optical Coating stock would get stock worth $177.94 for each of their 15.9 million shares, or a total of about $2.8 billion. That is a 49 percent premium over Wednesday's closing price of $119.25 a share for Optical Coating. 

 In late Nasdaq trading yesterday, Optical Coating shares were up 49, or 41 percent, at 1681/4, while JDS shares edged up 7/16 to 191. Bell Atlantic wins Pa. nod for GTE buy WASHINGTON - Bell Atlantic Corp., the second-largest U.S. local telephone company, won approval from Pennsylvania state regulators for its $89.4 billion purchase of GTE Corp. 

 The Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission signed off an agreement reached with Bell Atlantic and state Attorney General Michael Fisher in July to maintain local phone rates in Pennsylvania for four years. The company also agreed to improve rural service and enhance rivals' access to their phone lines. 

 Six other states and the U.S. Federal Communications Commission must still rule on the transaction before it can close. The U.S. Justice Department has approved the combination. Starwood Hotels' Bartels joins the exec exodus WHITE PLAINS N.Y. - Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. said yesterday that its Hotels Group president and chief executive, Jeurgen Bartels, resigned as part of a realignment of senior management. 

 Bartels is the fourth senior executive to leave the White Plains, N.Y., hotel company in less than a year. 

 Richard Nanula, a longtime associate of Starwood chairman and chief executive Barry Sternlicht, resigned as Starwood's president in April after serving in the post for only a year. Observers cited personality and power conflicts between Sternlicht and Nanula. 

 Yesterday's news that Bartels was leaving apparently caused uncertainty among investors. Starwood shares slipped as much as 16 percent to 20 on the New York Stock Exchange before rebounding somewhat to 213/4, down 9.1 percent, or 2-3/16, on volume of 3.6 million shares. Average daily volume is 732,087 shares. IBM cutting computer server staffers ARMONK, N.Y. - International Business Machines Corp., the No. 1 computer maker, said it plans to cut 3 percent to 6 percent of its U.S. server workers after warning of lower profit in the fourth and first quarters. 

 IBM wouldn't say how many people will be slashed from the unit, which makes powerful machines that run networks of computers. Analyst Gary Helmig of Soundview Technology Group estimated that the move will result in 200 to 500 job cuts. 

 IBM said two weeks ago that profit will be hurt as customers put off mainframe purchases to test their computer systems' readiness for the year 2000 date change. 

 ''I don't find it a terrible surprise in light of the way they've been performing," said Helmig, who rates IBM "buy." 

 The company has server plants in Rochester, Minn.; Poughkeepsie and Somers, N.Y.; and Austin, Texas. 

 IBM fell 2-13/16 to 91-9/16 in New York Stock Exchange trading. Just For Feet steps into Chapter 11 WILMINGTON, Del. - Just for Feet Inc., the world's second-largest athletic-shoe retailer, filed for bankruptcy protection from its creditors after failing to make its November interest payment on $200 million in bonds. 

 Birmingham, Ala.-based Just for Feet listed $764.2 million in assets and $507.2 million in liabilities in its Chapter 11 petition filed yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington. 

 Among the company's largest unsecured creditors are bondholders owed $200 million; Nike Inc., owed more than $13.7 million; Fila Holding Spa's U.S. unit, owed more than $5.7 million; and Reebok International Ltd., owed more than $4.8 million. Soft Disney sales take toll on profits BURBANK, Calif. - The Walt Disney Co., the world's second-largest media company, said its fiscal fourth-quarter profit fell 37 percent, partly because of weaker sales of merchandise and home videos. 

 Profit from operations fell to $212 million, or 10 cents a share, matching the average forecast of analysts surveyed by First Call Corp. 

 Chairman Michael Eisner has responded to Disney's depressed earnings and stock price by trimming capital spending and closing some businesses, though the latest results underscore that there's no quick fix to the problems. 

 This quarter, sales of home videos and movies such as "Mumford" didn't match last year's releases, while merchandise revenue continued to be soft. Revenue growth at the Florida theme parks was trimmed by Hurricane Floyd. 

 Revenue fell 6 percent to $5.8 billion from $6.1 billion. Operating income, excluding charges, fell 36 percent to $521 million. 

 Disney stock rose 11/2 to 28 in trading of 13.3 million shares, more than double the three-month daily average. The earnings results were released after U.S. markets closed. Sears sales show surprising strength HOFFMAN ESTATES, Ill. - Sears, Roebuck & Co., the second-largest U.S. retailer, said sales at stores open at least a year rose 4.7 percent in October, its second-straight month of better-than-expected sales. 

 Sears had forecast a 1 percent gain in so-called same-store sales, while analysts estimated as much as a 3.5 percent increase at the country's biggest department-store chain, according to a report written by SalomonSmithBarney analyst Richard Church. 

 The increase is the biggest for Hoffman Estates, Ill.-based Sears since May 1998. Sears had higher sales of televisions, camcorders and other home electronics, as well as double-digit growth in clothing and jewelry sales. 

 ''Sears is giving clear evidence that its marketing strategy is working and that its new slogan is bringing customers into the stores," said Kurt Barnard, president of Barnard's Retail Trend Report and a retail industry consultant. Shares of Sears rose to 29 in New York Stock Exchange trading of 2.8 million. 

Document nsl0000020010828dvb501nuk




 Wall Street Awaits Bank One Fix-It Plan For Card Unit 

 By Tara Siegel 
1,220 words
1 November 1999
20:54
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Lucky for Bank One Corp. (ONE) it has a top-five billing among the nation's leading banks. Otherwise, Wall Streeters would be more likely to talk about it as a takeover prospect. 

 After all, shares of the Chicago bank have lost nearly half their value since it said in August that revenue at its mammoth First USA credit-card unit will fall about $500 million shy of Wall Street's original expectations for the second half of the year. That, in turn, prompted a round of executive musical chairs, and the unit's former head gave up his seat. 

 "We'd consider the potential sale of a smaller company in similar circumstances a virtual certainty," said David Berry, director of research at Keefe Bruyette & Woods Inc., who recently penned a report speculating on such possibilities. 

 While the Chicago bank's susceptibility to a takeover makes interesting food for thought, in reality the list of potential buyers is short given its sheer size - it's the nation's fifth-largest bank, with a market capitalization of $44 billion and assets of $254 billion. Those that could swing such a deal would likely be uninterested, according to Berry and other analysts. 

 Citigroup Inc. (C), with whom Bank One vies for the largest card-issuer title, makes "intriguing speculation" about a possible Bank One buyer, Berry said. However, given pending financial-services reform legislation that, if enacted, will allow banks, insurers and securities firms to engage in one other's businesses, those odds are lessened. He added that Citigroup will be able to think more freely about its options in the insurance world after the law is enacted. 

 As for jettisoning Bank One's beleaguered credit-card unit, Chief Financial Officer Robert A. Rosholt, while answering an investor's question during the third-quarter earnings conference call last month, said the company is dedicated to nursing the unit back to health. 

 "The business and the franchise continue to be one of the best investments on the dollar, so we are absolutely committed to the business.... Until further notice, that is absolutely the strategic direction we are going to take," he said during the call. 

 Selling the First USA credit-card unit wouldn't be economically viable or shareholder-friendly since most gains would have to be handed over to the government, Berry added. 


   Investment Community Awaits Nov. 15 Meeting With Execs



Analysts and investors are expecting to get more facts about the
credit-card unit - the bank's sputtering growth engine whose $70 billion
portfolio generated 33% of Bank One's earnings - during the meeting Bank
One brass plans for investors and analysts at the St. Regis Hotel in New
York City on Nov. 15.



But it seems it's going to take more than a two-hour meeting, or two
quarters for that matter, to regain credibility with Wall Street.



"They will have to lay out the world for us," said analyst Nancy Bush
of Ryan Beck & Co.



"At a minimum, we should receive a coherent earnings guidance for 2000
and further details about the status of the (credit) card operation,"
added Mark Patterson, equity analyst at NWQ Investment Management, of
Century City, Calif., which owns about 2.2 million Bank One shares.



The unit's difficulties unfolded in August when the bank said narrower
net interest margins and slowing loan growth at its First USA card
business would drag full-year earnings to between $3.60 and $3.65 a
share, below the then-consensus view of $3.92. Results posted for the
third quarter matched estimates.



Apparently, the bank relied too heavily on low teaser interest rates,
squeezing lending profit margins. These rates typically lure in clients
who are quick to award their debts to the lowest bidder, analysts said
at the time.



The bank also put in place, and later recalled, an aggressive late fee
policy. Customer attrition rates soared into the high teens but have
since improved somewhat. Staff dedicated to retaining good customers has
been increased, the company said during its third-quarter earnings
conference call.



"The abruptness of it all is still quite astonishing. It's not like
you wake up one day and the Russians aren't going to pay you back,"
Berry said, referring to Russia's default on its debt last year, which
roiled profits at several banks. They should have spotted the snag
evolving earlier on, he added.



       Changes At The Top



Two months after the profit warning, Bank One's board rearranged the
pecking order. Chief Executive John B. McCoy assumed the chairman title
and direct oversight of the credit card and loan-marketing unit.



Meanwhile, Verne G. Istock, who had been chairman and chief executive
of First Chicago NBD Corp. before it was taken over by Bank One last
year, was named president and will supervise the remaining operating
departments. Dick Vague, co-founder of First USA, left his post to
"pursue other interests."



William Boardman, a senior executive vice president, replaced Vague as
the day-to-day boss of First USA, although McCoy, whom Bush called a
"hands-off manager," will roll up his sleeves and take an active role in
mending the problem.



"I think to some degree (Vague) was pushed to deliver more than he
could realistically, but on the other hand, you have free will and you
can say no," Bush said.



While several Wall Streeters still hold Vague in high regard, they
applauded the executive reshuffling and said it shows the board is
managing the dilemma. Analysts and investors said they remain sanguine
about the value of the First USA franchise, though some are still hoping
the bank has already laid all the negatives out on the table.



"Most of the company is working just fine," Berry said, "The thing
that really sinks banks are credit, and that's not the problem. They
don't have to do anything high-drama."



But what they do have to do is deliver.



"I think the investment community is saying, 'I won't believe what you
tell me. I want to see it delivered,"' said NWQ's Patterson. "We will
look for some pattern of consistency."



A Bank One spokesman said that "the franchise value of Bank One is
strong, and we are working hard to rebuild Wall Street's confidence."



The stock has participated in the financial-service sector's rally of
late, but it is a far cry from previous trading levels.



The stock had been hovering in the high 50s to 60 prior to the
earnings warning on Aug. 24, then plummeted nearly 23% from 55 5/8 to 43
after word of the earnings shortfall hit Wall Street. It touched a
52-week low of 32 1/16 on Sept. 28, and was recently trading at 38 on
composite volume of nearly 3.7 million. Average daily volume is 5.6
million.



"It's going to take some time for investor confidence to come back,"
said analyst Diana Yates of A.G. Edwards & Sons Inc. "(Bank One is)
going to have a hard time getting back to preannouncement levels."
  - Tara Siegel; Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5288
  tara.siegel@dowjones.com


Document dj00000020010827dvb1074r1

Search Summary

 Text((“profit*” same “warning*”) or ("disappoint*" same "result*") or ("decreas*" same "profit*") or ("compan*" same "downturn*") or ("unexpect*" same "loss*"))   Date11/01/1999 to 11/30/1999   SourceAll Sources   AuthorAll Authors   CompanyAll Companies   Subject Not Corporate/Industrial News   IndustryAll Industries   RegionUnited States   LanguageEnglish   Results Found26   Timestamp28 March 2018 15:17  
 Page 72 of 72     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

