 
•	  Market Report - US boost sparks FTSE turnaround. 
•	  Market Report - Blue chips surge as end of `unlucky' October nears. 
•	  Investors ease off the panic button. 
•	 EBay, Amazon Shares Decline;  Profit Warning , Losses Exact Toll
•	 TECH STOCKS GAIN MORE CLOUT IN DOW SHAKEUP; MOVE SHOWS CHANGING ECONOMY  
•	 NATION/WORLD
•	 NEW-ECONOMY STOCKS ADDED TO DOW INDEX; 4 IN, 4 OUT ON MONDAY; SOME SEE MORE VOLATILITY
•	 NEW-ECONOMY STOCKS ADDED TO DOW INDEX; 4 IN, 4 OUT ON MONDAY; SOME SEE MORE VOLATILITY
•	  Microsoft, Intel Join Dow Average 
•	  A Game of Chicken at Janus Will the managers make peace with their parent or will they secede? 
•	  DARE WE REST EASY IN OCTOBER? 
•	  Agreement on Banking Plan Leads to Widespread Gains 
•	  Biggest Trash Hauler in U.S. Says It Will Take a Charge 
•	  Around the World's Markets. 
•	  Financial Sector Pushes Dow Up 173; Banking Bill Accord Helps Ignite Surge 
•	  (BW-RECAP-07) 
•	 ON24 Audio Investor Alert: ON24's On the Move: Pervasive Plummets on  Profit Warning
•	 IBM, PHILIP MORRIS DOUSE DOW; NASDAQ GAINS
•	  October Chill: Inflation Fears Make This a Crueler Month For American Stocks --- Benign Consumer-Price Data Soothed Many Investors, But...
•	  Sun Microsystems, Legato Fall As Y2K Concerns Hit Tech Stocks 
•	  Dollar Posts Losses Against Yen, Euro Amid Drop In Blue-Chip Stocks 
•	 Pillowtex Junk Bonds Fall 8 Pts On 3rd Quarter  Profit Warning
•	  Technology Journal: Increase in Memory-Chip Cost May Not Drive Up PC Prices 
•	 BUSINESS UPDATE
•	  Pound jumps vs dollar, gains vs euro. 
•	  U.S. Treasuries edge up in London, eyes on ECB. 
•	  Jittery pound slips vs dollar, struggles vs euro. 
•	  CORRECT: Compaq Sees Shipment Delays, Not Earns Shortfall 
•	 DOW CLIMBS AFTER INFLATION REPORT
•	 SCHOOL BRIEF: Candy sales warning issued J
•	  Chicago Tribune Market Report Column 
•	  StorageTek Considers Sale Among Recovery Options. 
•	  INSTANT VIEW/U.S. stocks seen up after in line CPI. 
•	  Asian Stocks Hit the Hardest as Global Markets Fall Again Amid Worries About U.S. Inflation 
•	 BANK ONE TRIGGERS PLASTIC MELTDOWN
•	  Most Added. 
•	  Most IMM currencies firmer in afternoon trade. 
•	  BRIEFLY / RETAILING Office Depot's President Steps Down 
•	 Apple profit down 15%, but stock, hopes are up COMPUTING: Holiday shipments and a possible chip-shortage remedy loom. 
•	  Europe Stock Focus: Raisio Losing Market's Confidence 
•	  SMARTMONEY.COM: Talk About A Bad Call 
•	 SCHOOL BRIEF: Warning issued on candy sales "
•	  Raytheon Stock Plunges as Firm Warns of Shortfalls Industry: Delays in customer purchases, strain of acquisitions are among factors cited...
•	  MARKET SAVVY SAVVY CONFIDENTIAL Brokerage Profit Forecasts Show Importance of Diversification 
•	  Merged Firms Underperform the Market 
•	  Stocks of Merged Firms Underperform the Market 
•	  Stocks tend to languish after big mergers The S&P 500 has, on average, outdone the 30 largest deals of the past five years 
•	  Impact: California GOP 
•	 NATION/WORLD
•	 REINVENTING SEARS; WEARY GIANT FIRES OFF 'SECOND REVOLUTION'
•	  Insider-Transaction Filing Deadline Criticized in U.S. 
•	  Wall Street Stocks Ends Mostly Lower. 
•	  BRIEFS 
•	  Chase Manhattan Shares Decline As Fed Move Erases Stocks' Gains 
•	  Oil Stks Dn -2: Halliburton Off 13%, Rowan Drops 6% 
•	  N.Y. Late Market Comment -4: Focus Back On Earnings 
•	 BAD NEWS IN TOY LAND EARNINGS: Mattel stock dives 28% as company issues  profit warning . CEO's job could be on the line.
•	  CA Calif. Digest Briefs 
•	  Avon Products Trying To Drum Up Support For Stock 
•	 HEADLIGHTS, LSD URBAN LEGENDS AGAIN MAKING THE ROUNDS HERE
•	 Altamont Fair's 'critics' do hatchet job
•	  Business Briefs 
•	  Defending travel writing (against other writers):  The case of Joe McGinniss's Going to Extremes 
•	  Wall Street Underwriting & Stock Performance: Tech Stock Gains Mask Quarter's Bearish Tone 



 Market Report - US boost sparks FTSE turnaround. 

613 words
29 October 1999
Birmingham Post
BMP
21
English
(c) 1999  Birmingham Post & Mail Ltd

 Shares staged a dramatic turnaround yesterday afternoon pulling back from early falls and driving sharply upwards. 

 The FTSE-100 Index languished for most of the day as dealers adopted a wait-and-see attitude ahead of key US economic data. 

 But the release of employment cost figures, GDP numbers and jobless numbers in the US reassured the market that a sharp rise in US interest rates was not imminent. 

 The announcement set the Dow Jones Industrial Average surging and the Footsie followed suit. 

 By the close the Footsie was up 103.4 points at 6149.1. 

 Smaller company shares underperformed the FTSE 100. At the close the FTSE Small Share Index was up just 6.3 points at 2623.7. 

 Building materials group Blue Circle sparked a wave of panic share-selling with a profit warning that smashed 20 per cent off its share price. 

 The company plunged 66p to 269p as it warned poor conditions in Asian and Chilean cement markets would wipe around #40 million off the annual profit line. 

 Smaller rivals Rugby Group and RMC also suffered, tumbling 5p to 98p and 11p to 889p respectively. 

 Orange's launch of a new low-cost pre-paid mobile phone pricing structure continued to create a few ripples. Orange gained 26p to #14.84, while BT, owner of BT Cellnet, fell 6p to 265p. 

 And Vodafone AirTouch saw 166 million shares change hands as dealers rushed to switch out of the group. 

 With a bid by Vodafone for German group Mannesmann also still seen as a possibility by dealers, Vodafone shares fell 3p to 269p. 

 Reuters was much in demand amid vague hopes of a takeover bid. Shares gained 31p to 569p. 

 Merger hopes continued lifting Boots, up 17p to 615p. Rumours surfaced on Wednesday that the chemist may consider a marriage with Tesco to fight against the giant Asda-Wal-Mart partnership. Tesco edged 1p up to 181p. 

 Glassmaker Pilkington failed to impress with first half earnings showing continued problems in the fragile South American market. Shares fell 6p to 86p. 

 But full-year earnings at WH Smith pleased investors. The company gained 17p to 447p as chief executive Richard Handover said sales growth in the new financial year was progressing "reasonably well." 

 Premiership club Tottenham Hotspur reported a swing into the black with its full year results thanks to its successful campaigns in the Worthington and FA Cups. Shares in the club rose p to 68p. 

 Calluna shares jumped by 2p to 14p on rumours of am imminent rebadging deal while Celsis International gained 7p to 39p after announcing the launch of a new test costing less than #2 which can test for microbial contamination. 

 GEI International warned that its trading environment remained difficult and also said a Department of Trade and Industry enquiry into accounting practices at one of its subsidiaries has been extended. Its shares dived 2p to 13p. 

 Clothing group Sherwood made bullish noises about worldwide expansion but its interim profits slumped to #1.36 million from #3.18 million and its shares retreated 1p to 17p. 

 Alfred McAlpine said talks with potential bidder Brunswick Developments had ended but that it would make a pretax profit of #46 million this year - above brokers' forecasts. McAlpine's shares slid back by just 14p to 210p. 

 The Footsie's biggest gainers were Amvescap up 53p to 490p, Associated British Food up 29p to 369p, HSBC up 49p to 735 and EMI up 28p to 464p. 

 The fallers were Dixons down 43p to #10.96, Whitbread down 15p to 674p and Misys down 9p to 468p. 

 Copyright Birmingham Post & Mail Ltd, 1999. 

Document bmp0000020010901dvat005sw




 Market Report - Blue chips surge as end of `unlucky' October nears. 

 By Derek Pain. 
1,225 words
29 October 1999
The Independent - London
IND
25
English
(c) 1999 Independent Newspapers (UK) Limited . All rights reserved. This material may not be published, distributed or exploited in any way.

 BLUE CHIPS displayed some of their old exuberance yesterday, with Footsie scoring a 103.4 points gain to 6,149.1. 

 New York, encouraged by indications that an interest rate increase is not a foregone conclusion, provided the inspiration. In morning trading Footsie was subdued, recording a fall of 46.7 at one time. 

 But the index is now at its best level for 12 days and it would appear that the often treacherous month of October, which witnessed the 1929 and 1987 crashes and was particularly weak last year, may this time have been negotiated without too much hardship. 

 Certainly the bulls were quick to highlight the stock market's apparent resilience. The gloom clouds had swirled and there had been some bleak, nervous sessions but the resounding crash so many confidently predicted had, with just one day to go, failed to materialise. In some quarters the market's October performance - Footsie actually gained 78.5 - was being cited as a factor likely to encourage the rally shares so often enjoy in the closing two months of the year. 

 But doubts about the way the market will handle the millennium remain. There is some talk of trading drying up because of anxiety about the possible impact 2000 could have on City systems. The rally filtered through to the rest of the market with the mid and small cap indices making headway. The mid cap index gained 26.2 to 5,566.9 and the small cap 6.3 to 2,623.7. 

 The day's activity was supported by some often heavy trading with share turnover over topping 1.3 billion. For the second day in succession Government stocks were strong. 

 Amvescap, the stock market's biggest fund management group, led the blue chip charge. The shares, nudging 700p in the spring, have had a torrid time and recently hit a 12 month low of 402p. But encouraging nine month figures and an accompanying upbeat statement revitalised the shares and the price surged 53p to 490.5p with Seaq volume nearly hitting 10 million. 

 The figures prompted Goldman Sachs and HSBC to add to the excitement by adopting positive stances. 

 For Blue Circle Industries, strong on takeover hopes on Wednesday, it was a day of downgrades. Shares of the cement group crumbled 66.5p (after 78p) following a profits warning. Hopes of more corporate action produced activity among the banks with Woolwich up 21.5p to 357.25p, Halifax 25p to 775p and Lloyds TSB 25.5p to 795.5p. National Westminster Bank was little changed at 1,372p but its tormentor, Bank of Scotland managed to count a 6.5p gain to 725p. 

 There was a smattering of activity among the hard pressed retailers. Boots continued to draw strength from take over speculation, gaining 17p to 615p in brisk trading. Tesco, also linked with Marks & Spencer, remains the favoured Boots predator, although it is worth remembering the shares, which have almost halved this year, must be extremely vulnerable to any ramp. 

 House of Fraser, another in the doldrums, added 3.5p to 66p as chief executive John Coleman paid 62p a share for a parcel of 156,000. Great Universal Stores hardened 15p to 469.5p on the appointment of John Peace as chief executive and among the cut price supermarket element Safeway firmed 3.5p to 189.25p as a survey said it had increased its year-on-year market share measured by value by around 2.2 per cent. 

 Rolls-Royce, the aero engine group was 1p higher at 217.25p as BMW confirmed its stake had climbed to 8.08 per cent; it will eventually reach 10 per cent. Rentokil Initial shaded to 202p, just 0.5p above its 12 month low. The shares were at a 477.5p peak in February when the group's 20 per cent growth record was still in tact. Chief executive Sir Clive Thompson is expected to undertake a US investment road show next month. 

 Another depressed share, Reuters, was jerked into life with the price up 31.5p to 569.5p after the company completed a 4.7 million share buy back at 529.2p. VodafoneAirTouch created a buzz with Seaq turnover almost reaching 170 million shares. It was all to do with hedging following a convertible issue representing 26 million shares. The price ended 3p off at 269p. In early trading the market's biggest constituent was down 12p. Alfred McAlpine, the builder, fell 14.5p to 210p despite some director buying. The decision to terminate take over talks with unquoted Brunswick Development prompted the fall. 

 Gearhouse, the audio-visual group, continued to attract speculative demand, despite its denial of any bid approach. The shares gained 13.5p to 108.5p, following an early fall. Best performing share of the day was Money Channel, the venture of the former pop star Adam Faith. It jumped 22.5p to 92.5p. The company has a long term deal with BSkyB and there is talk of other contracts. 

 Rexam, the packaging group, improved 7.5p to 242.5p after Salomon Smith Barney suggested a 350p target and Burmah Castrol responded to positive comments from ABN Amro with a 25p advance to 1,005p. 

 Avesco, which provides specialist television services, jumped 75p to 490p on talk that it was near to making a corporate move; the dreaded profits warning hit Compel, an IT services group, sending the shares scurrying 94.5p lower to 316.5p. GEI International, an engineer, also sprayed around profit gloom and fell 2.5p to 13p. 

 Burden Leisure scored a modest 1.5p gain to 15.5p as it appeared the long running friction at the vehicle for Bolton Wanderers football club had been resolved with the "London element", represented by chairman David William winning the battle. There had at one time been suggestions the football club, which had come to market through a classic reverse take over, would be taken private. 

 But Gordon Hargreaves, believed to be the main supporter of the private move, has resigned although he remains a director of the football club. 

 Mr Williams is thought to want to turn Bolton into a broadly based leisure group; an ambition which was not welcomed by the more traditional Bolton element. 

 SEAQ VOLUMES: 1.3bn 

 SEAQ TRADES: 82,230 

 GILTS INDEX: 104.5 + 0.84 

 SHARES OF Brancote, the mining group, rose 2p to 58p after it made confident noises about its gold prospect in Argentina. The group said it looked forward "with confidence and enthusiasm" to the next six months drilling. In the last half year, losses were slashed from #322,000 to #28,000. As gold mining prospects improved, the shares climbed from the 6.75p low they hit last year; a few weeks ago they touched 63p. 

 DEALINGS ARE expected to start next week in the shares of Harrier, an Internet security group. It is the latest offering from the small company entrepreneur Bob Morton. The group has raised #5m with stockbroker Peel Hunt placing shares at 110p, which capitalises Harrier at nearly #23m. But its valuation should soar as the shares are expected to enjoy a heady debut, given the market's fascination with anything relating to the Internet. 

Document ind0000020010906dvat0070e




 Investors ease off the panic button. 

 By Douglas Hamilton. 
799 words
29 October 1999
The Herald
GH
25
English
(c) 1999 SMG Newspapers Ltd Not Available for Re-dissemination.

 Sighs of relief as US issues benign GDP and jobs figures 

 SHARE markets in London and other European financial capitals posted broad gains yesterday after benign US economic data eased fears of higher American interest rates and ignited stock prices on Wall Street. 

 Bonds rose sharply but the pound and the euro slipped in value against a rejuvenated dollar. 

 Oil prices also tumbled with North Sea Brent crude closing 5% lower as big investment funds fled the petroleum markets. Brent ended UK dealing $1.16 weaker at $21.43 a barrel after trading as low as $21.40 at one stage. 

 London's FTSE-100 index of blue-chip shares closed 103.4 points, or 1.17%, firmer at 6149.1. Turnover was a healthy 1243.6 million shares with Vodafone AirTouch and BG together accounting for about 23% of total volume. 

 It was the Footsie's highest close in about two weeks. The index was down around 13 points when the US gross domestic 

 product and employment statistics were released at mid-day. Dealers and analysts said the market's reaction was one of relief but added many investors still expected the Federal Reserve - the US central bank - to raise interest rates after its monetary policy meeting on November 16. 

 They predicted the UK equity market would continue its recent volatile pattern, adding that next week's Bank of England and European Central Bank meetings could also produce rate rises. 

 "I think we are going to move between relief rallies and (interest rate) anxiety for a couple of months yet," said Andy Hartwill, equity strategist at SG Securities. 

 "Obviously, today is a relief. But we have to get through the Fed meeting itself, and we still have to get through the equivalent in the UK ... and the ECB (European Central Bank) as well." 

 Meanwhile, US investors 

 celebrated the tame economic data, the Dow Jones average climbing more than 190 points by the London close. The Dow extended its gains and later closed 227.64 points - or 2.2% - higher at 10,622.53. 

 Most euro bloc markets 

 finished more than 1% stronger with the Paris bourse setting a number of records. The French CAC-40 index gained 1.14% to end at a record close of 4748.62 points, topping the prior closing high of 4745.48 points set on 

 September 10. 

 The index also hit a new intra-day high at 4792.03 points. 

 In City dealing, most financials ended with solid gains. Barclays climbed 56p to 1783p and Lloyds put on 25.5p to 795.5p. HSBC was 49.5p firmer at 735.5p. 

 NatWest, fighting off a takeover bid from Bank of 

 Scotland, dipped 2p to 1372p. 

 Bank of Scotland moved 6.5p ahead to 725p while Royal Bank of Scotland gained 41p to 1344p. 

 Fund management group Amvescap was a big winner, up 53p to 490.5p, after it announced a strong set of third-quarter figures. 

 Building materials group Blue Circle sparked a wave of panic share-selling with a profit warning that smashed 20% off its share price. 

 The company plunged 66.5p 

 to 269.5p as it warned poor 

 conditions in Asian and Chilean cement markets would wipe around #40m off annual profits. 

 Smaller rivals Rugby Group and RMC also suffered, tumbling 5p to 98p and 11p to 889p 

 respectively. 

 Orange's recent launch of a new low-cost pre-paid mobile phone pricing structure continued to create a few ripples. Orange gained 40p to 1498p, and BT, owner of BT Cellnet, rose 17p to 1085.5p. 

 Vodafone AirTouch saw 166 million shares change hands as dealers rushed to switch out of the group. 

 The stock was marked down 3p to 269p on the possibility that Vodaphone might bid for German group Mannesmann. 

 Reuters was much in demand amid vague hopes of a takeover bid. The information group, which has seen its share price plunge this year, gained 31.5p to 569.5p. 

 Merger hopes continued lifting Boots, up 17p to 615p. Rumours surfaced on Wednesday that the chemist may consider a marriage with Tesco to fight against the giant Asda-Wal-Mart combine. Tesco edged 1.75p up to 181.75p. 

 Glassmaker Pilkington failed to impress with first-half earnings figures showing continued problems in the fragile South American market. Shares fell 6.25p to 86p. 

 But full-year earnings at WH Smith pleased investors and the company gained 17p to 447p. 

 Tottenham Hotspur reported a swing into the black with its full-year results thanks to its successful campaigns in the Worthington and FA cups. Shares in the North London football club punted 0.5p up the field to 68p. 

 (c) Scottish Media Publishing Limited 

 Not Available for Re-dissemination. 

Document gh00000020010905dvat005uo




 Financial 
 EBay, Amazon Shares Decline;  Profit Warning , Losses Exact Toll 

 David Streitfeld 
Washington Post Staff Writer
457 words
28 October 1999
The Washington Post
WP
FINAL
E01
English
Copyright 1999, The Washington Post Co. All Rights Reserved

 Internet companies may have a splendid edge over their earthbound competitors, but investors are realizing that they have expenses just the same. 

 Shares of eBay Inc. fell nearly 9 percent today, one day after the company warned that its earnings in the near future will be limited by the need to spend more on its computer infrastructure. The popular auction site went down for 22 hours in June and then for a second, shorter, period in August. 

 Meanwhile the biggest online retailer, Amazon.com Inc., announced third-quarter results today that were a bit better than analysts had been predicting. Before merger and other special charges, the company reported a loss of $86 million, or 26 cents a share. That's up sharply from a $24 million loss, or 8 cents a share, in the comparable period last year, but better than the 28-cents-a-share-loss consensus estimate reported by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Amazon.com tempered that relative good news, however, by saying its gross profit margins would fall in the all-important fourth quarter. Among the reasons: extra help for the upcoming holidays, higher marketing costs and charges associated with new services. 

 "Amazon is once again dramatically increasing the loss forecasts, and I suspect we will see tomorrow that investors are growing weary of that same old song," commented CS First Boston analyst Lise Buyer. 

 Amazon's earnings were announced after the market closed. During regular trading it fell $5.31 1/4 a share, to $75.93 3/4. In after-hours trading it dropped as low as $72.75. 

 As for eBay, it fell $13.31 1/4 a share, to $138.68 3/4. The auction site spent $8.8 million in the third quarter on improving its computer system and told analysts it will have to spend more. This worried at least one investment house, Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown, which downgraded the stock today. Other analysts, however, reaffirmed their buy ratings. 

 Both eBay and Amazon have had no trouble adding new customers. In fact, customers are increasing faster than revenue. At the auction site, for instance, third-quarter revenue was $58.5 million, not quite triple the year-earlier $21.7 million. But the number of registered users increased more than fivefold, to 7.7 million from 1.3 million. 

 At Amazon, sales were up almost 132 percent, to $356 million from $154 million. But the number of customer accounts rose to 13.1 million from 4.5 million, a jump of 191 percent. Some analysts have wondered if the novelty of online buying eventually wears off for customers. 

Document wp00000020010830dvas01841




NEWS
TECH STOCKS GAIN MORE CLOUT IN DOW SHAKEUP; MOVE SHOWS CHANGING ECONOMY  

By The Associated Press  
1,159 words
27 October 1999
St. Louis Post-Dispatch
SLMO
EDITION: FIVE STAR LIFT
PAGE: A1
English
Copyright 1999, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.  

NEW YORK  

Who's in, who's out (and what their stock did Tuesday)  

IN  

Intel Corp. up 12.5 cents  

Microsoft Corp. up 18.75 cents  

SBC Communications Inc. up $1.31  

Home Depot Inc. fell $1.25  

OUT  

Chevron Corp. fell $2  

Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. fell $3.93  

Sears, Roebuck & Co. fell $1.875  

Union Carbide Corp. fell 50 cents  

Punctuating technology's dominance on Wall Street and Main Street, Intel and Microsoft are being added to the Dow Jones industrial average, replacing Chevron, Goodyear and other stocks symbolic of an economy once dominated by smokestacks.  

Two other venerable names, Sears Roebuck and chemical maker Union Carbide, are also being removed from the Dow, making room for home-furnishings retailer Home Depot and the Baby Bell telephone company SBC Communications.  

The changes announced Tuesday by The Wall Street Journal, creator and custodian of 30-stock Dow average, take effect Monday.  

The selection of Intel and Microsoft, both of which trade on the Nasdaq Stock Market, marks the first time the Journal has chosen companies not listed on the New York Stock Exchange.  

But more significant than Nasdaq's symbolic victory against the 207-year-old NYSE is the decision to scratch an arbitrary rule that kept some of the most dynamic names in technology and the overall economy from being reflected in Wall Street's best-known barometer.  

Intel, for example, is the world's biggest supplier of the semiconductors that serve as the brains for computers. And Microsoft is the No. 1 maker of the software to run those computers and programs for more specific tasks.  

Critics of the Dow, created in 1896, had long argued that the average contained too few stocks that reflect the technology and information revolution that has been reshaping the United States and global economies over the past two decades.  

Intel and Microsoft will join IBM and Hewlett-Packard, itself added to the Dow less than three years ago, giving the average four pure technology components.  

"I'd say, 'Hooray!' It's been a long time coming," said A. Marshall Acuff Jr., equity strategist at Salomon Smith Barney. "The Dow has reflected the old economy of the last 50 or more years, and these changes today are another step in bringing the index in line with the new economy."  

To that end, the Dow will also get a healthy dose of the Internet economy with the selection of SBC Communications. As the nation's largest local telephone company, the former Southwestern Bell is also the biggest provider of Internet access, its wires reaching into nearly a third of all U.S. homes. For years, Southwestern Bell was based in St. Louis before moving its headquarters to San Antonio in 1993.  

In fact, SBC may be the most suitable successor to the railroad companies that were the driving force in the economy a century ago. While trucks and planes now dominate the shipping industry, railroads have re-emerged as a conduit for a different kind of freight - their tracks providing ready-made routes for fiber-optic cables and the explosion of Internet commerce.  

But despite the Internet's growing importance, analysts said it's too soon to add a pure Internet company such as America Online to the Dow because the industry is still so young.  

The changes in the Dow's composition will not produce an immediate change in its value. The average is computed by combining the stock prices of all 30 companies and dividing by a special number calculated by the Journal. That divisor will be adjusted to reflect the changes and make sure the "new" Dow starts on Monday at the same value where the "old" Dow finished on Friday.  

But once trading begins next week, the Dow may behave a bit differently: rising more quickly with the addition of some faster-growing companies, and swinging more wildly with the fortunes of its volatile technology components.  

Just last week, a profit warning by IBM sent that stock plunging more than 20 points - or the equivalent of more than 100 Dow points. Nontechnology stocks rarely gyrate so violently.  

With the loss of Chevron, the Dow's only energy company will be Exxon - although notably, that company is set to almost double in size by merging with Mobil.  

Union Carbide was one of only two chemical companies in the Dow. One reason the Journal chose to review the Dow's makeup now is that Union Carbide is being acquired by Dow Chemical Co. - a company unrelated to Dow Jones & Co., the owner of the Journal and the industrial average's namesake.  

Although Union Carbide and Dow Chemical will form the world's second-biggest chemical company, the newspaper apparently decided that No. 1 DuPont, the Dow's other chemical company, provides sufficient representation for that industry.  

Likewise, Sears Roebuck is still the nation's second-largest retailer but has been struggling for years to keep up with huge discount chains such as Wal-Mart Stores, which was added to the Dow during the last reconfiguration in 1997.  

And since Wal-Mart and Sears compete in many of the same areas, Home Depot will help reflect a different, increasingly lucrative part of the retail industry.  

By the same token, since tires are sold by Wal-Mart and its Sam's Club subsidiary, it may not have seemed so important anymore for the Dow to have Goodyear, the world's largest tire maker.  

Some critics argue that the Journal artificially pumps up the Dow by removing companies in decline - or companies in declining industries - and replaces them with dynamic names in fast-growing markets. A more accurate measure of the economy and the stock market, they say, would endure the bumps and the bruises of a company that's fallen on bad times.  

Of the stocks added to the Dow list, just one fell in Tuesday trading. Home Depot fell $1.25 to $70.68 3/4. Intel rose 12 1/2 cents to $71.37 1/2; Microsoft gained 18 3/4 cents to $92.62 1/2; and SBC climbed $1.31 1/4 to $45.56 1/4.  

All of the stocks taken out of the Dow fell Tuesday. Chevron fell $2 to $88; Goodyear fell $3.93 3/4 to $41.25; Sears dropped $1.87 1/2 to $27; and Union Carbide slipped 50 cents to $59.  

postnet.com/links The Dow Jones realigns itself to reflect corporate America. Find more information on these changes online.

PHOTO | Color PHOTO by CHRIS LEE / POST-DISPATCH - Jill Robison of Glendale holds her son, William, 3 months, as she shops for a chandelier Tuesday with her husband, Christopher (left), at Home Depot, 1603 South Hanley Road, Richmond Heights. Home Depot was added Tuesday to the Dow Jones Industrial Average.  

Document SLMO000020040605dvar018zo




Nation/World
BUSINESS
NATION/WORLD

By AMBER BEBERKA, Staff Writer, Associated Press and Bloomberg News   
563 words
27 October 1999
Charlotte Observer (NC)
CLTO
ONE-THREE
1D
English
Copyright 1999 The Charlotte Observer. All rights reserved.   

Consumer confidence dips with Dow

Consumer confidence in the U.S. economy fell in October for the fourth consecutive month amid concern over declining stock prices, a private industry group said Tuesday.

The consumer confidence index dropped to 130.1 this month, from 134.2 in September, the New York-based Conference Board reported. The index is at its lowest level since January.

The Dow Jones industrial average is down 9 percent from Aug. 25, just after Federal Reserve policy-makers raised interest rates for the second time in less than two months. "Confidence sags every time the stock market sags," said Chris Rupkey, senior financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Ltd. in New York.

- Bloomberg News

*

Ex-Secretary Rubin joins Citigroup as 3rd chairman

Former U.S. Secretary of the Treasury Robert E. Rubin is heading to financial powerhouse Citigroup, joining top executives Sanford I. Weill and John S. Reed in a newly created three-person office of the chairman. Rubin was also elected to the board of directors of Citigroup, the nation's largest financial company.

Rubin will serve as chairman of the executive committee of the board and will work with Reed and Weill, the chairmen and co-chief executive officers of Citigroup, as a third chairman of the New York-based company. Rubin, 60, left the Clinton administration in July. He was one of the wealthiest members of Clinton's Cabinet, spending 26 years on Wall Street and ultimately becoming chairman of investment bank Goldman Sachs.

- Associated Press

*

Fidelity's thrift will handle personal trust services

Boston-based mutual fund giant Fidelity has received a federal thrift charter to launch a savings bank that will provide personal trust services to customers.

The new institution, Fidelity Personal Trust Co., will be based in Boston. The nation's largest mutual fund company currently conducts corporate and personal trust activities through its Fidelity Management Trust Co. (FMTC), a Massachusetts-chartered organization. FMTC manages approximately $950 million in personal trust services through a division set up in 1993. The division will retain its current accounts, but personal trust services will be offered to new accounts through the savings bank.

The thrift will serve as an investment adviser for a fee, trustee, and custodian for revocable and living trusts and irrevocable trusts; as a managing agent for individuals; executor and agent for executors of assets; guardian and conservator; and custodian and trustee of IRAs.

- Amber Veverka

*

In brief

STRUGGLING MITSUBISHI Motors plans to slash its global work force by 9,900 jobs, or 11 percent, the latest belt-tightening move among Japan's top companies.

DEUTSCHE BANK shares closed 2.4 percent lower Tuesday in Frankfurt after nine-month results from the world's largest banking group came in slightly below expectations, mainly because of a 41 percent surge in administrative expenses.

BANK OF MONTREAL, Canada's fourth-largest bank by assets, said it will take a one-time charge of $70 million in the fiscal fourth quarter as it restructures some businesses and writes down the value of an investment portfolio.

IBM WILL buy back as much as $3.5 billion of its stock after a profit warning that sent its shares tumbling. IBM has repurchased 731 million of its shares since 1995 for $29.8 billion.

Document CLTO000020090629dvar02lc4




MAIN
NEW-ECONOMY STOCKS ADDED TO DOW INDEX; 4 IN, 4 OUT ON MONDAY; SOME SEE MORE VOLATILITY

By IANTHE JEANNE DUGAN, Washington Post 
844 words
27 October 1999
Charlotte Observer (NC)
CLTO
THREE
1A
English
Copyright 1999 The Charlotte Observer. All rights reserved. 

The Dow Jones industrial average is dumping four old industrial giants in favor of four young stock-market upstarts as part of a significant overhaul designed to match the most visible symbol of the stock market with the modern economy.

Starting Monday, the barometer of 30 blue-chip stocks will begin tracking software giant Microsoft Corp. and computer chip maker Intel Corp. - the first Nasdaq stocks ever to join the 103-year-old average, before now exclusively the province of New York Stock Exchange issues. And in a nod to the nation's love for big-box shopping and constant electronic communication, the benchmark will also add Home Depot Corp. and SBC Communications Inc., the biggest local phone company.

The changes were announced Tuesday by The Wall Street Journal, creator and custodian of the Dow average. The shake-up marks a new chapter for the Dow, designed as a gauge for the broader market.

The ups and downs of the Dow are so closely watched by investors - and relentlessly chronicled on television and in newspapers - that even small movements can have a dramatic impact on investor psychology.

As the Dow achieved greater symbolic value for investors, it was frequently dismissed as outdated by many Wall Street veterans because it was heavily weighted in the Rust Belt companies, not the high-tech dynamos that have captivated the market in recent years. The four new Dow components have an average market value of $236 billion, compared with $21 billion for those being tossed aside.

"We want the 30 slots to do the best job they can at telling the story of the market," said John Prestbo, the Wall Street Journal editor who runs the Dow average. "By extension, it should aptly reflect the U.S. economy."

That philosophy riled the pre-Depression companies getting the heave-ho: Union Carbide Corp., Chevron Corp., Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. and Sears, Roebuck & Co. "Any suggestion that today's changes will make the Dow Jones industrial average even more representative of the evolving U.S. economy is misguided," said a statement from Sears, which joined the Dow in 1924.

Once trading begins next week, the Dow may behave a bit differently: Rising more quickly with the addition of faster-growing companies, and swinging more wildly with the fortunes of its volatile technology components. Just last week, a profit warning by IBM sent that stock plunging more than 20 points - or the equivalent of more than 100 Dow points. Nontechnology stocks rarely gyrate so violently.

Changes in the Dow 30 are rare. Dow Jones last tweaked the index on March 17, 1997, when what is now Citigroup Inc. replaced Westinghouse Electric Corp; Hewlett-Packard Co. swapped with Texaco Inc.; Johnson & Johnson replaced Bethlehem Steel Corp.; and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. bumped Woolworth Corp.

Until now the Dow average contained only three technology stocks - IBM, Hewlett-Packard Co. and Eastman Kodak Co. - about 11 percent. By comparison, about a quarter of the 500 companies tracked by Standard & Poor's are high-tech.

"It has been entrenched in old, stodgy stocks," said Charles Carlson, who co-manages the $100 million Strong Dow 30, one of just a handful of funds that track the Dow. "This is a watershed development."

Carlson quickly sold off the four companies that were being removed and bought the companies that will be added. And apparently, he was not alone: The stock of all four companies marked for removal slipped.

The Dow was created by Charles Dow in 1896, with 12 stocks, to measure a cross-section of the economy. The list has been handed down over the years to various editors, who have tinkered with it repeatedly, leaving just five companies that were there in 1930 - the year Goodyear joined. General Electric is the only original company left.

The latest shift has been mulled for months, as Prestbo and his staff debated how to whip it into shape for the new millennium. "This is really a catch-up with the shifts in economic importance that have been going on for a long time," said Dick Hoey, chief economist at Dreyfus Corp. "Intel is to the economy what U.S. Steel was 50 years ago. It's the producer of the product that's ubiquitous in a lot of other products."

The latest change does not necessarily portend a big rise in the Dow, because it is one of the few market indicators that is price-weighted. That means high-priced stocks, such as IBM, have more of an effect than lower-priced peers.

When it was created, its calculations were done by pencil and paper. Charles Dow added the 12 stocks and divided by 12.

"All we need is bad news from Microsoft and Intel next week and we're going to look pretty stupid," Prestbo joked.

Info box "DOW CHANGES" not in data base; please see microfilm.

Document CLTO000020090629dvar02lbv




MAIN
NEW-ECONOMY STOCKS ADDED TO DOW INDEX; 4 IN, 4 OUT ON MONDAY; SOME SEE MORE VOLATILITY

By BRUCE MEYERSON, Associated Press * Reuters contributed to this article. 
862 words
27 October 1999
Charlotte Observer (NC)
CLTO
ONE-TWO
1A
English
Copyright 1999 The Charlotte Observer. All rights reserved. 

Punctuating technology's dominance on Wall Street and Main Street, Intel and Microsoft are being added to the Dow Jones industrial average, replacing Chevron, Goodyear and other stocks symbolic of an economy once dominated by smokestacks.

Two other venerable names, Sears Roebuck and chemical maker Union Carbide, are also being removed from the Dow, making room for home-furnishings retailer Home Depot and the Baby Bell telephone company SBC Communications. It was the first revision to the index in two years.

The changes announced Tuesday by The Wall Street Journal, creator and custodian of 30-stock Dow average, take effect Monday.

Once trading begins next week, the Dow may behave a bit differently: rising more quickly with the addition of some faster-growing companies, and swinging more wildly with the fortunes of its volatile technology components. Just last week, a profit warning by IBM sent that stock plunging more than 20 points - or the equivalent of more than 100 Dow points. Nontechnology stocks rarely gyrate so violently.

The selection of Intel and Microsoft, both of which trade on the Nasdaq Stock Market, marks the first time the Journal has chosen companies not listed on the New York Stock Exchange.

But more significant than Nasdaq's symbolic victory against the 207-year-old NYSE is the decision to scratch an arbitrary practice that kept some of the most dynamic names in technology and the overall economy from being reflected in Wall Street's best-known barometer. The Dow tended to be made up of traditional large, industrial companies rather than Information Age giants. For example, the four companies replaced joined the index in the 1920s and 1930s.

Intel, for example, is the world's biggest supplier of the semiconductors that serve as the brains for computers. And Microsoft is the No. 1 maker of the software to runs those computers and programs for more specific tasks.

Critics of the Dow, created in 1896, had long argued that the average contained too few stocks that reflect the technology and information revolution that has been reshaping the U.S. and global economies over the past two decades.

Intel and Microsoft will join International Business Machines and Hewlett-Packard, itself added to the Dow less than three years ago, giving the average four pure technology components.

"I'd say `hooray!' It's been a long time coming," said Marshall Acuff Jr., equity strategist at Salomon Smith Barney. "The Dow has reflected the old economy of the last 50 or more years and these changes today are another step in bringing the index in line with the new economy."

To that end, the Dow will also get a healthy dose of the Internet economy with the selection of SBC Communications. As the nation's largest local telephone company, the former Southwestern Bell is also the biggest provider of Internet access, its wires reaching into nearly a third of all U.S. homes.

But despite the Internet's growing importance, analysts said it's too soon to add a pure Internet company such as America Online to the Dow because the industry is still so young.

Changes in the Dow 30 are rare. Dow Jones last tweaked the index on March 17, 1997, when what is now Citigroup Inc. replaced Westinghouse Electric Corp; Hewlett-Packard Co. swapped with Texaco Inc. ; Johnson & Johnson replaced Bethlehem Steel Corp. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc. bumped Woolworth Corp.

The changes in the Dow's composition will not produce an immediate change in its value. The average is computed by combining the stock prices of all 30 companies and dividing by a special number calculated by the Journal. That divisor will be adjusted to reflect the changes and make sure the "new" Dow starts on Monday at the same value where the "old" Dow finished on Friday.

With the loss of Chevron, the Dow's only energy company will be Exxon - although notably, that company is set to almost double in size by merging with Mobil.

Union Carbide was one of only two chemical companies in the Dow.

Some critics argue that the Journal artificially pumps up the Dow by removing companies in decline - or companies in declining industries - and replaces them with dynamic names in fast-growing markets. A more accurate measure of the economy and the stock market, they say, would endure a company's hard times.

Of the stocks added to the Dow list, just one fell in Tuesday trading. Home Depot fell $1.25 to $70.68 3/4; Intel rose 12 1/2 cents to $71.37 1/2; Microsoft gained 18 3/4 cents to $92.62 1/2; and SBC climbed $1.31 1/4 to$45.561/4.

Stocks taken out of the Dow fell. Chevron fell $2 to $88; Goodyear fell $3.93 3/4 to $41.25; Sears dropped $1.87 1/2 to $27; and Union Carbide slipped 50 cents to $59.

Info box "DOW CHANGES" not in data base; please see microfilm.

Document CLTO000020090629dvar02l8d


 Microsoft, Intel Join Dow Average 

 BRUCE MEYERSON 
1,023 words
27 October 1999
The Salt Lake Tribune
SLTR
E1
English
Copyright (c) 1999 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved.

 Punctuating technology's dominance on Wall Street and Main Street, Intel and Microsoft are being added to the Dow Jones industrial average, replacing Chevron, Goodyear and other stocks symbolic of an economy once dominated by smokestacks. 

 Two other venerable names, Sears Roebuck and chemical maker Union Carbide, are also being removed from the Dow, making room for home- improvements retailer Home Depot and the Baby Bell telephone company SBC Communications. 

 The changes announced Tuesday by The Wall Street Journal, creator and custodian of 30-stock Dow average, take effect Monday. 

 The selection of Intel and Microsoft, both of which trade on the Nasdaq Stock Market, marks the first time the Journal has chosen companies not listed on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 But more significant than Nasdaq's symbolic victory against the 207-year-old NYSE is the decision to scratch an arbitrary rule that kept some of the most dynamic names in technology and the overall economy from being reflected in Wall Street's best-known barometer. 

 Intel, for example, is the world's biggest supplier of the semiconductors that serve as the brains for computers. And Microsoft is the No. 1 maker of the software to runs those computers and programs for more specific tasks. 

 Critics of the Dow, created in 1896, had long argued that the average contained too few stocks that reflect the technology and information revolution that has been reshaping the U.S. and global economies over the past two decades. 

 Intel and Microsoft will join International Business Machines and Hewlett-Packard, itself added to the Dow less than three years ago, giving the average four pure technology components. 

 "I'd say 'hooray!' It's been a long time coming," said A. Marshall Acuff Jr., equity strategist at Salomon Smith Barney. "The Dow has reflected the old economy of the last 50 or more years and these changes today are another step in bringing the index in line with the new economy." 

 To that end, the Dow will also get a healthy dose of the Internet economy with the selection of SBC Communications. As the nation's largest local telephone company, the former Southwestern Bell is also the biggest provider of Internet access, its wires reaching into nearly a third of all U.S. homes. 

 In fact, SBC may be the most suitable successor to the railroad companies that were the driving force in the economy a century ago. While trucks and planes now dominate the shipping industry, railroads have re-emerged as a conduit for a different kind of freight -- their tracks providing ready-made routes for fiber-optic cables and the explosion of Internet commerce. 

 But despite the Internet's growing importance, analysts said it's too soon to add a pure Internet company such as America Online to the Dow because the industry is still so young. 

 The changes in the Dow's composition will not produce an immediate change in its value. The average is computed by combining the stock prices of all 30 companies and dividing by a special number calculated by the Journal. That divisor will be adjusted to reflect the changes and make sure the "new" Dow starts on Monday at the same value where the "old" Dow finished on Friday. 

 But once trading begins next week, the Dow may behave a bit differently: rising more quickly with the addition of some faster- growing companies, and swinging more wildly with the fortunes of its volatile technology components. 

 Just last week, a profit warning by IBM sent that stock plunging more than 20 points -- or the equivalent of more than 100 Dow points. Nontechnology stocks rarely gyrate so violently. 

 With the loss of Chevron, the Dow's only energy company will be Exxon -- although notably, that company is set to almost double in size by merging with Mobil. 

 Union Carbide was one of only two chemical companies in the Dow. One reason the Journal chose to review the Dow's makeup now is that Union Carbide is being acquired by Dow Chemical Co. -- a company unrelated to Dow Jones & Co., the owner of the Journal and the industrial average's namesake. 

 But although Union Carbide and Dow Chemical will form the world's second-biggest chemical company, the newspaper apparently decided that No. 1 DuPont, the Dow's other chemical company, provides sufficient representation for that industry. 

 Likewise, Sears Roebuck is still the nation's second-largest retailer, but has been struggling for years to keep up with huge discount chains such as Wal-Mart Stores, which was added to the Dow during the last reconfiguration in 1997. 

 And since Wal-Mart and Sears compete in many of the same areas, Home Depot will help reflect a different, increasingly lucrative part of the retail industry. 

 By the same token, since tires are sold by Wal-Mart and its Sam's Club subsidiary, it may not have seemed so important anymore for the Dow to have Goodyear, the world's largest tire maker. 

 Some critics argue that the Journal artificially pumps up the Dow by removing companies in decline -- or companies in declining industries -- and replaces them with dynamic names in fast-growing markets. A more accurate measure of the economy and the stock market, they say, would endure the bumps and the bruises of a company that's fallen on bad times. 

 Of the stocks added to the Dow list, two fell Tuesday. Home Depot fell $1.25 to $70.6875; Microsoft dipped 6.25cents to $92.375; Intel rose 12.5 cents to $71.375; and SBC climbed $1.3125 to$45.5625. 

 All of the stocks taken out of the Dow fell Tuesday. Chevron fell $2 to $88; Goodyear fell $3.9375 to $41.25; Sears dropped $1.875 to $27; and Union Carbide slipped 50 cents to $59. 

 Caption: Michelle Mattox, operations manager for the Nasdaq-Amex market site in New York, looks at the index's quote box Tuesday in New York City. Starting Monday, for the first time, four Nasdaq issues will join the prestigious Dow Jones industrial average. 

Document sltr000020010829dvar00x6m




Fund of Information
 Mutual Funds 
 A Game of Chicken at Janus Will the managers make peace with their parent or will they secede? 

 By Sandra Ward 
2,052 words
25 October 1999
Barron's
B
F3
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Never has Janus Capital resembled the two-faced god for which it is named so much as it does now. 

 On the one side, a close-knit, dedicated group of stockpickers is intent on keeping an incredible streak of performance and sales alive, especially as the market's winds appear to be shifting against them. Yet on the other hand, the group is preoccupied with waging an incredibly hostile battle against its majority owner for the right to be independent. 

 Investors must try and determine if this is the beginning of a new Janus or the end of the old. 

 That question looms ever larger with the proposed spinoff of Janus, by 83% owner Kansas City Southern, along with three other financial-service companies into a package to be known as Stilwell Financial pending. A week ago Friday, Kansas City Southern, a railroad operator, submitted an amended filing to regulators that more clearly spells out the strain between it and its crown jewel, Janus, whose profits last year accounted for about 90% of the parent's. Then, early last week, Janus announced some key organizational changes that, on the surface, made perfect sense for a company that's become one of the fastest-growing fund companies in the country. But they raised concerns about whether the portfolio managers so vital to the Janus process would be sticking around. 

 Forty-three-year-old Jim Craig, a 17year Janus veteran who for much of that time ran the flagship Janus Fund, was named director of research, on top of his duties as chief investment officer. He steps down from managing Janus Fund. Blaine Rollins, 32, who manages the firm's balanced fund and equity-income fund, will succeed Craig on the Janus Fund. And Laurence Chang, 34, becomes a co-portfolio manager on Janus Worldwide, where he's been assisting Helen Young Hayes, one of the leading lights at Janus. 

 It was hard not to think that the moves, coming as they did in the midst of a very nasty public fight, may presage a time when star managers such as Craig and Hayes walk out the door. The managers of Janus are not subject to any non-compete agreements. 

 Craig says no. "The timing was just an unfortunate coincidence," he maintains. "This has absolutely nothing to do with it. This is an internal move at Janus. If we were to do that, why would we care?" He answers his own question and says they care deeply about shareholder perceptions. 

 The angry rhetoric so loudly voiced just a few weeks ago against Kansas City Southern has softened considerably. 

 "Going public was a tactic in a chess game," says Craig. "We thought it was a good time to go independent. We still believe it. But it's not going to happen, at least not yet." 

 Is there a plan to leave once the spinoff occurs? "Anything could happen in the future at this point," is all that he'll say. 

 However, Craig maintains that his new role at the company is critical at this juncture. "There's a large part of the market we're not invested in," he says. "My goal is to increase the idea flow. My goal is to keep Janus in the top decile across the board. The business is more competitive than ever. If you don't have premium numbers . . . Lots of people are losing assets. It's a matter of survival that we keep the premium numbers." 

 With most of its funds concentrated in the biggest-cap growth stocks, the firm recognizes that it's vulnerable to any crack in that group. While many of its best-performing funds are still in delivering double-digit returns for the year, they have suffered as the market has grown more volatile. And some of its best-performing funds are closed to new investors, which creates a challenge in maintaining asset growth. Craig expects to address this issue by offering value products and will likely lean on David Decker, manager of the special situations fund, for his expertise in picking turnarounds and outof-favor stocks. 

 There's no question the firm is making moves that should help to keep it at the top of its game. The question is, will the managers stick around to play the game if Kansas City Southern proceeds as planned? 

 A big difference between the market turbulence of past weeks and that of a year ago: There's been demand -yes, people care-for the shares of underappreciated and beaten down small companies. 

 It's barely perceptible, but to those managers specializing in small-cap value plays, the pickup in interest has been noticeable in the past month. While smallcap managers are reluctant to read too much into any short-term trend (no doubt because of all the false starts they've faced in this beleaguered sector) they are encouraged that trading volumes have been healthy even as investors become more cautious about the overall market. Spreads between bid and asked prices have also improved and that's especially meaningful in a segment of the market in which transaction costs can make a tremendous difference to overall returns. And managers are noticing that pension consultants are taking a renewed interest as they reapportion money. 

 "This whole month there seems to be more interest in small-cap stocks," says Arnold Schneider of Schneider Capital Management. "There's more nibbling." 

 Adds Patricia Falkowski, manager of the Alleghany/Chicago Title Small Cap Value Fund, "If you take the last four weeks, as the market got more risk averse, value began to exert itself. It's so much better." 

 "I've been very encouraged," notes Warren Isabelle of the ICM/Isabelle Small Cap Value Fund, pointing out that as the broader market declined nearly 6% a couple of weeks ago, the 1%-2% dip in small-cap value names made for a "relatively good week." 

 "You get a weird market like that and liquidity typically dries up. Liquidity didn't dry up," Isabelle said. "Liquidity is not the issue anymore in small-caps. It's much more about stockpicking." 

 In the broadest sense, he says, the interest in small-cap value, no matter how slight, bodes well for the overall stock market because it means "people are searching" and broadening their focus in the equity market rather than moving to bonds or cash. 

 Some companies that Isabelle is very high on right now include RTI International Metals, a fabricator of titanium assemblies that should benefit from Boeing orders. Also, insiders have been buying Inso, a turnaround situation in which the company moved quickly to contain its liability from a lawsuit and is focusing on its Web-based information management business. It's another holding of Isabelle's. Just last week, Inso moved to sell off its technical publishing division. Elite Information Group, a spinoff from Broadway Seymour that provides billing services for law firms, has been growing at a 40%-50% clip. Growth will likely slow from its recent pace but expansion into other service industries will provide more opportunities. Isabelle, whose fund is up about 17% so far this year, also is a fan of Material Sciences, a coating-products maker in Chicago that's been "rejuvenated": Insiders have been buying, Sequa owns 10%, and costs have been coming down giving a boost to margins. 

 While the managers remain optimistic for the most part, they're also highly realistic. They warn that small-caps could continue to disappoint. 

 "I haven't detected any real digging in of small-caps versus large-caps," says Schneider, whose fund is up 29% so far this year. "There's no follow-through. Since April, it's been encouraging but it's two steps forward and one step back." 

 Schneider has been broadening out from the paper, energy and semiconductor industries -- which have served him well this past year and remain his top holdings -- into health-maintenance and hospital companies. He's added four HMOsHumana, Trigon, Coventry and Foundation Health -- to his portfolio because they're "very cheap" at current levels, trading at about three times EBITDA, or earnings before income taxes, depreciation and amortization. 

 "You can throw a dart at them and find a value there," he says. 

 Schneider isn't overly concerned about the litigation threats that have surfaced lately against HMOs. And any government action on reimbursement can be addressed by pricing. Humana's shares, he notes, are selling at below 6, or for about $150 a member adjusted for debt, compared with an average of $1,000 a member at other companies. 

 "That's a giveaway," says Schneider, who says he bought Humana when the company ousted its president and chief executive and founder David Jones stepped back in to direct a turnaround. 

 He's also recently begun "sticking his toe" into small-cap insurance companies, a group that has been absent from his portfolio for years. (He's been a more active buyer of large-cap insurers for other portfolios.) For now, he's focusing on the reinsurance companies, adding RenaissanceRe and LaSalleRe, among others, and avoiding personal-line providers. 

 Whitney George of the Royce Funds hasn't seen much to take heart in. 

 "It's thinner and thinner at the top and the generals have come down closer to the troops," he says. "But I didn't see any real change in the pattern of what's been going on in small-caps. More and more people are giving up on small-caps. Some of that stopped for a few minutes." 

 Still, some suggest something more could be afoot. Selling pressure from massive redemptions in some sector funds (financial-service funds come to mind) appears to be abating, and that would provide some relief in names in those sectors. But more than that, industrial companies appear to be coming out of their own mini-recession and attracting buyers as their earnings growth prospects pick up pace. If that's the case, small-caps may undergo their own mini-cycle in which they typically lead in a recovery. 

 Falkowski is bullish on Regal-Beloit, a maker of motors and cutting tools and gears based in Beloit, Wisconsin, and began buying shares about three months ago. 

 Another name Falkowski has liked since the fund started last November and a name she continues to own is U.S. Can, a maker of aerosol cans. It's a turnaround story that includes exposure to European markets. Friday, U.S. Can reported improved results on higher margins and lower interest expenses. 

 Olin, a maker of copper alloys, chlorine and caustic soda and ammunitions, is a third favorite. The company expects to see prices accelerate in the fourth quarter after seven straight quarters of erosion, says Falkowski. 

 "I think even growth managers are going to get excited and then we'll have to worry about these companies being overvalued," says Falkowski. 


                       SCOREBOARD
                    Swinging Stocks



The U.S. market went on a roller-coaster ride in the week through
Thursday, a week in which investors focused intently on earnings and the
prospects for interest rates. Banks and drug stocks posted strong
results and were rewarded as a result. Strong earnings from Microsoft
helped the tech sector until shortfalls and warnings from IBM and Dell
Computer dragged it down. Blue chips such as Raytheon, Coca-Cola and
Gillette continued to disappoint. Health and biotechnology was the best
performing category for the week, gaining 1.45% compared with 0.20% for
large-cap growth funds and 0.03% for S&P 500 funds. The average
diversified equity fund fell 0.56%. Gold funds tumbled, losing 5.49%.
The best fund for the week was American Heritage Fund, whose negligible
net-asset value makes it susceptible to wide swings. It gained 28.57% on
the week, narrowing its year-to-date loss to 28.95%. Among the top
performers for the week were global debt and emerging-market debt funds.
Of the nation's biggest 25 funds, the Janus Fund ranked first with a
gain of 1% for the week. Fidelity Adviser Growth Opportunity turned in
the worst performance: off 2.09%.


Document b000000020010825dvap0006h


 DARE WE REST EASY IN OCTOBER? 

 By James WEIR. 
1,188 words
23 October 1999
The Dominion
DOMN
12
English
(c) 1999 The Dominion, INL .

 OCTOBER is a risky month - like all the other months. 

 That was the pithy response of a Wellington equities manager asked this week if October was a nerve-wracking time, given the jittery history of shares in October. 

 He doesn't lose any sleep wondering if the New York sharemarket is crashing in the early hours of a New Zealand October morning. 

 Maybe he should have this week. 

 Yesterday IBM shares crunched down 20 per cent after a profit warning by the company. Result - the Dow Jones fell almost 100 points, wiping out Wednesday's gains on Microsoft's good results. 

 Though the reaction to IBM could be expected, there seems to be no special reason why October should be any more dangerous than any other time of the year despite crashes in that month in 1929, 1987, and 1997. 

 Perhaps it is the gloomy autumn weather in New York as Americans return to work from their summer holidays and reconsider their investments. 

 For those who believe history repeats, tomorrow, Sunday is the 70th anniversary of the biggest sharemarket crash of all time - Black Thursday, October 24, 1929. 

 So should New Zealand lose sleep about more Wall Street dives, after an almost 9 per cent slump since an all-time peak in August? After all, this week New Zealand's Treasury said there were risks around the sustainability of the present global economic recovery. 

 The greatest risk? A sharp correction in United States share prices. 

 A United States crash would slow world growth and take the warmth out of New Zealand's expected export-led recovery. 

 The Treasury expects 3.5 per cent economic growth next year, maybe more than 4 per cent if the world really gets going. 

 The risk is that investors in Wall Street will finally realise their shares are wildly overvalued, especially the high technology stocks like IBM. 

 Some of Wall Street's October fall has been put down to Microsoft president Steven Ballmer saying the pricing of technology stocks was absurd. But other United States shares are only mildly over-valued - perhaps 10 per cent above fair value, according to AMP Asset Management. Other markets around the world are generally fairly priced. 

 In sharp contrast, AMP Asset Management said this week that New Zealand's market was undervalued - perhaps by 5 per cent. 

 New Zealand's market would get knocked around by Wall Street falls but that should be short-term. For example the top 40 index was down just 13 points yesterday to 2090 after IBM's big blue the night before. 

 Our market simply has no bubble to burst. 

 But what about the impact of a United States crash on New Zealand exports? 

 If Americans feel poorer after a share crash, they may not spend so much on New Zealand wine and lamb. Domestic demand in the United States is growing at 5 per cent a year. Foreign analysts say it would take a monster fall on Wall Street to suppress that growing appetite to spend, spend, spend. 

 The other comforting thought from this week's "opening of the books" by the Treasury is that it believes world growth is picking up outside the United States. Stronger world demand and a more competitive New Zealand dollar means exports should boom next year. 

 The Treasury forecasts exports to rocket more than 8 per cent in the March 2001 year. Imports should ease back from the high 10 per cent growth expected this March year, caused by a new navy frigate and higher oil costs. 

 The Japanese and Asian economies have been weak since 1997, but at last there are signs of a pickup in Japan's domestic demand. 

 So, barring that big crash in New York, the Treasury presented a rosy face to the world, forecasting robust growth - apart from one nasty sore. The current account deficit. 

 It predicted the deficit to reach about $8.5 billion in the coming March year, up from $5.7 billion in March this year - a huge blowout. 

 Simply, the current account deficit is the difference between what we earn and spend overseas. It includes our merchandise trade - imports and exports - but also things like tourist dollars. Most of the deficit relates to interest and dividends out of the country. 

 Our shortfall with the rest of the world is gruesome and getting worse. 

 Treasurer Bill English said the Government was not contributing to the blowout and was running a prudent spending and tax policy. He did not think it would lead to a credit-rating downgrade. 

 Rating agency Standard and Poor's has New Zealand on negative outlook and says a downgrade at this stage would be premature. 

 So should we worry? Yes, we should. 

 Deutsche Bank's Ulf Schoefisch said the deficit would improve to about 6 per cent of gross domestic product but that was still "not very impressive" and a credit downgrade would be a "good-sized probability". 

 A downgrade makes it more expensive for companies to borrow overseas and tends to keep the dollar down, making imports more expensive. 

 Despite the gloomy deficit outlook, the dollar is paradoxically expected to rise early next year. By that stage, Mr Schoefisch said, we should be through the election and the Year 2000 computer bugs. The global growth picture should be cleared and commodity prices should rise as a result. 

 Instead of rising to US70 cents, as New Zealand's currency did a few years back, Mr Schoefisch picks a peak at US62c, in part because of the bad current account deficit. HSBC Bank tips US58c in 12 months. 

 Berl's Ganesh Nana said the deficit reinforced the importance of growing exports, with a sustained low exchange rate, for more than just a year or so. 

 "What we are getting is an up and down yo-yo," Mr Nana said, so exporters did not have time to lock in sales at a competitive rate. 

 The hidden problem is that as business improves in an export-led recovery, even more money is owed to the overseas investors as profits rise. The total debt burden rises each year, faster than general economic growth, which is a structural problem. 

 The answer is to get a rising merchandise trade surplus, and limit extra debt. New Zealand ran a trade surplus in the early 1990s equal to more than 4 per cent of gdp. Now that trade surplus is much smaller and may even run into a trade deficit - worsening the total deficit problem. 

 If imports are plant and machinery, ultimately they should generate export income. In fact, the ships are arriving loaded to the gunnels with consumer goods or tonnes of phone equipment for Telecom. 

 New Zealand relied, year after year, on somebody else picking up the tab - paying the interest on the debt of the previous year. 

 "That is a kind of a pyramid scheme," Mr Schoefisch said. 

 If he stays treasurer after the election, maybe Mr English should be having some October nightmares about what can happen to pyramid schemes. Happy Halloween, Bill! 

 (c) The Dominion, INL 1999. 

Document domn000020010904dvan00bm9




THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS
 Business/Financial Desk; Section C 
 Agreement on Banking Plan Leads to Widespread Gains 

By Reuters
716 words
23 October 1999
The New York Times
NYTF
Page 3, Column 5
English
(c) 1999 New York Times Company

 Stocks powered ahead yesterday after the Clinton Administration and top Republican lawmakers announced that they had reached an agreement to overhaul the nation's financial system, paving the way for mergers in the financial services industry that could create financial supermarkets. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average gained 172.56 points, nearly 1.7 percent, to end at 10,470.25. For the week, the Dow was up 450.54 points, its best weekly gain since July. 

 In the broader market, advancing issues outnumbered decliners, 1,958 to 1,075, on active trading of 959.2 million shares on the Big Board. 

 ''The stars of the show certainly are financial stocks, but nearly everything is up,'' said Trude Latimer, an independent stockbroker in Charlottesville, Va. 

 The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index rose 14.55, or 0.52 percent, to 2,816.52. The Standard & Poor's 500 index added 18.04, or 1.4 percent, to 1,301.65. 

 In the Treasury market, prices finished narrowly mixed. Treasury prices, which often move inversely to stock prices, were trading slightly higher before stocks opened but came under immediate pressure when stock prices opened sharply higher, traders said. 

 The benchmark 30-year Treasury bond faded from its opening high but managed to end with a slim 4/32 gain at 97 3/32, yielding 6.34 percent, in late New York trading, down from 6.35 percent on Thursday. The price and yield move in opposite directions. 

 Banking and insurance stocks surged after the White House and Congress agreed on a banking overhaul bill. The move is seen as speeding up mergers in the business by repealing Depression-era laws that have restricted the banking, securities and insurance industries from moving into one another's businesses. 

 Leading the Dow were American Express, up 3 3/4, to 148 5/8; J. P. Morgan,, up 8 7/16, to 125 5/8, and Citigroup, up 1 1/4, to 48 3/16. 

 Among insurance stocks, Travelers Property Casualty, which belongs to Citigroup, gained 4 15/16, to 33; Chubb rose 2 15/16, to 48 13/16, and Hartford Life added 3 9/16, to 41 3/16. 

 The optical networking company Sycamore Networks posted a large enough rise on its first day of trading to give it one of the best market debuts ever. The stock closed up a stunning 146 3/4 at 184 3/4. 

 Meanwhile, I.B.M. rose 2 15/16, to 93 15/16, retaking a small portion of the steep losses of the previous two days after it issued a profitwarning for the next two quarters, citing consumer worries over Year 2000 problems. 

 ''Over all, earnings have been coming out very strong, and it looks like we're going to see double-digit gains'' for companies in the third quarter, said Rao Chalasani, chief investment strategist at First Union Securities in Chicago. 

 On Monday, six Dow components are scheduled to report earnings: AT&T, American Express, Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, Union Carbide, Chevron and Exxon. 

 In the Treasury market, the absence of economic data and of remarks from Federal Reserve officials, gave traders little support. 

 Looking at next week, the third-quarter employment cost index scheduled for Thursday is especially important. The Government will also release the advance estimate of third-quarter gross domestic product growth that day. 

 The employment cost index jumped 1.1 percent in the second quarter. In a poll by Reuters, economists offered a preliminary average estimate for a rise of none-tenth of a percent in the index for the third quarter. 

 Speaking of the Treasury market,  Michael McGlone, vice president at IBJ Lanston Futures said: ''The market got itself locked in a narrow range,'' but added, ''We should break out of this range next week.'' 

 Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: ''Hot & Cold'' provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

Document nytf000020010828dvan01lym




 Business/Financial Desk; Section C 
 Biggest Trash Hauler in U.S. Says It Will Take a Charge 

Bloomberg News
352 words
23 October 1999
The New York Times
NYTF
Page 15, Column 5
English
(c) 1999 New York Times Company

 HOUSTON, Oct. 22 -- Waste Management, the nation's largest trash hauler, said today that it expected to take a third-quarter charge and have lower 1999 earnings because an audit found irregularities with its accounting. 

 Waste Management declined to estimate the size of the charge, although The Wall Street Journal reported today that it could be as much as $1 billion. The company's stock initially fell as much as 12 percent in response to the announcement, but recovered to close up 43.75 cents at $17.25. The stock has fallen 69 percent since July 6, when the company issued the first of two warnings lowering 1999 profit estimates because of accounting errors. 

 ''This is simply further confirmation that the company had a very poor handle on what was going on and suggests the board of directors was not doing a very good job,'' said Hugh Holman, a BancBoston Robertson Stephens analyst who rates Waste Management a ''long-term attractive.'' 

 The audit of Waste Management's collection, information and accounting systems by Arthur Andersen L.L.P. and PricewaterhouseCoopers has not been completed, but preliminary results indicate the findings will be unfavorable, the company said. Waste Management said it intended to provide the findings on Nov. 9, when it reports third-quarter earnings. More than 1,000 auditors are reviewing its books. 

 On Wednesday, Waste Management said its former chief executive, John Drury, 55, had resigned from the board. He has been doing only light duty since undergoing brain surgery last year. Since the July 6 profitwarning, the president, Rodney Proto; chief financial officer, Earl DeFrates, and general counsel, Gregory Sangalis, have also quit. The company named Robert Miller, 57, a turnaround specialist, as chief executive while it looks for replacements for the four. 

 Waste Management's accounting problems are a product of its strategy of growing through acquisitions, analysts say. The company was formed in July 1998 when USA Waste Services Inc. bought Waste Management Inc. for $24.8 billion. 

Document nytf000020010828dvan01lxz




 Around the World's Markets. 

437 words
23 October 1999
The Independent - London
IND
19
English
(c) 1999 Independent Newspapers (UK) Limited . All rights reserved. This material may not be published, distributed or exploited in any way.

 LONDON 

 THE FTSE 100 index ended strongly, propelled by gains in the bank, oil and telecom sectors. London was also helped by a solid rebound in New York. HSBC and Standard Chartered benefited as fears about their Asian exposure waned, but tobacco stocks weighed down the market, with BAT sinking to a 12-month low amid concern over the latest US legal ruling. With HSBC, BP Amoco and BT providing about 51 points of upside, the FTSE 100 climbed 119.6 points or 2 per cent to 6,058.9 Market report, page 21 

 NEW YORK 

 US STOCKS gained ground in late morning trading yesterday as Wall Street continued a rally that was interrupted on Thursday by a profit warning from IBM, the nation's largest computer company. The Dow Jones industrial average was up 108 points, or 1.05 per cent, at 10,405. The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index rose 31 points, or 1.12 per cent, to 2,833, and the Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 14 points, or 1.11 per cent, to 1,297. 

 TOKYO 

 SHARES ENDED flat on Friday as a stronger yen erased earlier gains and undercut global electronics makers. The benchmark Nikkei 255 ended down 9.47 at 17438.8, 

 "The dollar's slip below 105.50 yen sparked worries over big exporter companies such as Hitachi, Fujitsu, NEC and Sony," said Yukio Takahashi, manager at Wako Securities. 

 Traders said Tokyo's market was also overshadowed by fears over US inflation and its impact on Wall Street. 

 HONG KONG 

 STOCKS CLOSED sharply higher, buoyed by a last-minute wave of short-covering ahead of next week's launch of the government's unit trust, despite more grim economic data from the territory. The blue chip Hang Seng Index closed up 2.72 per cent at 12,863.08 points. 

 Hong Kong retail sales were down by 8 per cent in value in August to HK$15.1bn (US$1.94 billion), compared to the previous year, but rose 2 per cent in volume. 

 FRANKFURT 

 GERMANY'S DAX index climbed 2 per cent to 5,353.06 yesterday as Deutsche Telekom rose on news it was expanding its reach in eastern Europe. Telekom closed up 2.1 per cent at 43.40 euros on news of its $2bn (#1.2bn) planned acquisitions. 

 Mannesmann, the rival telecoms group, dropped 2.4 per cent to 141.34 euros, extending Thursday's fall after it disclosed plans to acquire Orange, the UK mobile phone operator, for #18.2bn, a price some analysts believe to be exaggerated. 

Document ind0000020010906dvan006d6




 Financial 
 Financial Sector Pushes Dow Up 173; Banking Bill Accord Helps Ignite Surge 

 Martha M. Hamilton 
Washington Post Staff Writer
648 words
23 October 1999
The Washington Post
WP
FINAL
E01
English
Copyright 1999, The Washington Post Co. All Rights Reserved

 Stocks finished the week on an upbeat note yesterday, in a surge created by the prospect that laws governing financial services will be rewritten to allow mergers among banks, securities firms and insurance companies. 

 But Wall Street analysts said the momentum, which wiped out Thursday's 94-point loss and pushed up the Dow Jones industrial average by 172.56 points to 10,470.25, was broader than just the financial sector. 

 "I'm not sure I would say the banking bill is responsible for a market where there are two times as many stocks going up as going down," said Walter G. Murphy Jr., senior international market analyst for Merrill Lynch & Co. 

 Murphy said that as of last Friday about 500 stocks were at new 52-week lows, the largest number since a year ago. And this week, he said, another 300 to 400 stocks hit new 52-week lows. "I think clearly the market was oversold," said Murphy, who said that led to the rebound. 

 The rally yesterday wiped out the market's steep dive Thursday when International Business Machines warned that year 2000 computer glitch fears were hurting its sales of high-end servers, powerful computers that run office networks. At one point on Thursday, the Dow was down 213 points, and IBM's stock fell 16 to 91. By the end of yesterday's session, the Dow was up 450.54 points--or 4.5 percent--for the week, and IBM had recovered 2-15/16 of its previous day's loss. 

 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 4.9 percent for the week, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index was up 3.8 percent. The gains in the Dow and the S&P were their biggest weekly increases since early July. 

 Not all the news was positive yesterday, however. Gillette, the world's largest maker of razors and blades, watched its stock drop by as much as 10.6 percent yesterday before recovering some to close down 1 7/8, or 5 percent at 36. Gillette's shares fell in response to a company warning that its fourth-quarter profit would be hurt by its decision to cut shipments to reduce inventories. 

 Murphy said that the market's recovery was attributable to the banking bill news, the fact that most technology stocks remained strong and the dollar's strength. Although the dollar closed lower against the yen, it was sharply higher against Europe's single currency as prospects dimmed for a European interest rate increase soon. 

 Peter Canelo, U.S. investment strategist with Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, noted that the bank index was up 4 percent yesterday. "That's huge," he said. 

 Bank stocks American Express, J.P. Morgan & Co. and Citigroup--three of the 30 stocks in the Dow average--posted solid gains yesterday, as did insurance stocks, including Travelers Property Casualty, Chubb and Hartford Life. J.P. Morgan, American Express and Citigroup accounted for about a third of the gain in the Dow average. 

 Canelo said the market enjoyed a major boost from the prospect of financial services mergers after House and Senate negotiators reached a deal early yesterday morning laying the groundwork for passage of a banking overhaul bill. Banks have been underperfoming the market for the last year and three months, he said. "I think this may be a great trigger that prompts people to look at this very, very cheap sector," he said. "We've seen the bottom in banks." 

 But Canelo said that he also believes that the whole market may have been at or near the bottom, setting the stage for a rebound. 

 "We've certainly had corrections in just about everything," he said. 

Document wp00000020010830dvan0169d




 (BW-RECAP-07) 

809 words
22 October 1999
20:55
Business Wire
BWR
English
(c) 1999  Business Wire

 SEVENTH Business Wire recap for FRIDAY (OCT. 22); stories sent between 2:00 and 3:00 ET (11:00 and NOON PT) 

 ALL TIMES OFF IN EASTERN TIME 

 (MO-BANK-OF-AMERICA)(BAC) SAN FRANCISCO/ST. LOUIS, Mo.--Bank of America Investment Management releases "U.S. Economic Projections" report for the week ending Oct. 29, 1999 (BW0230 13:27) 

 (KY-ARTHUR-A-LIVE-ADVENTU) LOUISVILLE, Ky.--Arthur! A Live Adventure'' Coming to Louisville, Ky., Palace Theatre; Six Performances Only, Dec. 3-5; Libby's Juicy Juice Underwrites National Theatrical Tour (BW0247 14:01) 

 (CA-EGREETINGS.COM) SAN FRANCISCO--Say 'I Love You' This Valentine's Day With Free Egreetings.com Digital Greetings (BW0248 14:01) 

 (DC-MERISTAR-INVESTMENT-P) WASHINGTON--MeriStar Investment Partners Completes Acquisition of Sheraton Hotel in Anchorage, Alaska; Sixth Hotel Acquired by Investment Partnership (BW1221 14:01) 

 (QUESTEC/MLB/SPORTSLINE)(QSTI) NEW YORK and DEER PARK, NY and FORT--SPLN) Major League Baseball and SportsLine USA, Inc. Select QuesTec to Provide Technology for World Series Coverage on Official Web Site (BW1222 14:02) 

 (CA-SGV-BANCORP-INC)(SGVB) WEST COVINA, Calif.--SGV Bancorp Inc. Announces First Quarter Fiscal 2000 Operating Results (BW0250 14:02) 

 (CA-DWP/FOOTBALL-FRENZY)(FBC) --ADVISORY/Gridiron Greats -- Young Football Players Compete for Chance To Play at Rose Bowl (BW0251 14:03) 

 (AZ-BURR-BROWN)(BBRC) TUCSON, Ariz.--Burr-Brown Introduces Low-Cost CMOS Instrumentation Amp with Rail-to-Rail Output (BW0252 14:04) 

 (NY-MLB/SERIES-TECHNOLOGY)(BBM) NEW YORK and DEER PARK, NY and FORT--Major League Baseball and SportsLine USA, Inc. Select QuesTec to Provide Technology for World Series Coverage on Official Web Site (BW1223 14:04) 

 (CA-EARLE-M-JORGENSEN-CO) BREA, Calif.--EMJ Reports Second Quarter Results (BW0253 14:07) 

 (ME-CMP-GROUP)(CTP) AUGUSTA, Maine--CMP Group Shares Earn 27 Cents in 3rd Quarter (BW0254 14:10) 

 (MA-STAPLES)(SPLS) --ADVISORY/ Titans Head Coach Jeff Fisher to Visit White House Middle School and Present School with a $5,000 Staples Gift Certificate (BW1226 14:13) 

 (NY-MISONIX)(MSON) FARMINGDALE, N.Y.--Misonix Announces Letter of Intent With Former Licensees; Medical Device Alliance Agrees to Return Equipment (BW1227 14:19) 

 (CA-ARISTA-RECORDS) LOS ANGELES--Kenny G Set to Release New Holiday Album On November 23; ``Faith - a Holiday Album,'' Sequel to 8X-Platinum No. 1 Catalog Staple, ``Miracles - a Holiday Album'' (BW0256 14:20) 

 (CA-LIGHT-IT-UP) --ADVISORY/Fox 2000 Pictures Hosts Premiere Screening of ``Light It Up,'' Thursday, November 4 (BW0257 14:21) 

 (DC-OPEN-GROUP) WASHINGTON, DC--Open Group Hosts Conference On IT Trust & Confidence (BW0258 14:21) 

 (NY-CITIGROUP)(C) NEW YORK--Citigroup Statement on Financial Services Modernization Act (BW1228 14:22) 

 (NY-FBR-ASSET-INVESTMENT)(FB) ARLINGTON, Va.--FBR) FBR Asset Investment Corp. Reports Income of $0.38 Per Share for the Third Quarter of 1999 (BW1229 14:25) 

 (CA-SPECTROLAB/HUGHES)(GMH) SYLMAR, Calif.--Spectrolab and NREL Achieve World-Record Solar Cell Conversion Efficiency Exceeding 32% (BW0259 14:26) 

 (TX-SYNAGRO-TECHNOLOGIES)(SYGR) HOUSTON--Synagro Receives Environmental Awards (BW0261 14:30) 

 (OR-WEBRIDGE) PORTLAND, Ore.--Webridge Wins Technology Managers Forum Best Practice Award (BW0262 14:31) 

 (CA-CAPITOL-RECORDS-1) LOS ANGELES--Ella Mae Morse Remembered (BW0263 14:37) 

 (CA-DISNEY/FANTASIA-2000)(DIS) BURBANK, Calif.-- Disney's Groundbreaking New 'Fantasia/2000' Web Site Makes Its Debut on the Worldwide Web on Oct. 22 (BW0264 14:38) 

 (SERVICE-SYSTEMS-INTL)(SVSY) VANCOUVER, British Columbia--Ultra Guard Excels at WEFTEC '99 (BW0267 14:41) 

 (ON24-INVESTOR-ALERT) --ON24 Audio Investor Alert: ON24's On the Move: Pervasive Plummets on Profit Warning (BW0268 14:43) 

 (CA-SME3) MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif.--Small/Medium Enterprises to Receive Free e-business Solution Guides from Internet Start Up sme3.com in Program Sponsored by 3Com, Compaq, and Intel (BW0269 14:44) 

 (IN-NAIC-CENTRAL-IND) INDIANAPOLIS--ADVISORY/Central Indiana Chapter - NAIC (BW0270 14:44) 

 (CA-VITRIA)(VITR) SUNNYVALE, Calif.--News Alert - Vitria Announces Earnings Clarification: Record Results Beat Estimates; New Analyst Reporting Methodology Caused Confusion (BW0271 14:44) 

 (CA-CAPITOL/GARTH-BROOKS) LOS ANGELES--VH1 Debuts Garth Brooks' `Right Now' Video Friday, Oct. 22, 8 p.m. ET/PT (BW0272 14:46) 

 (VA-CHESAPEAKE-CORP)(CSK) RICHMOND, Va.--Chesapeake Fortifies Global Merchandising Capabilities Through Completion of Acquisition (BW0273 14:48) 

 (FL-HARRIS)(HRS) MELBOURNE, Fla.--Harris Corporation's Board of Directors Approves Lanier Spin-off and Share Repurchase Program (BW0274 14:49) 

 (NY-AMERICAN-INTL-PETROLE)(AIPN) NEW YORK--American International Petroleum Corporation Responds to Recent Stock Activity (BW1230 14:56) 

 (CA-JOHN-WAYNE-CANCER-INS) --ADVISORY/Fourth Annual John Wayne Cancer Institute Terry Fox Run Returns to Veteran's Administration Park on Nov. 14 (BW0277 15:00) 

 (GA-WORLD-CHMPNSHP-WRESTL) ATLANTA--New Faces and New Logos for WCW/Capital One MasterCard (BW0278 15:00) 

 15:40 EDT   OCTOBER 22, 1999 

Document bwr0000020010825dvam03f4s




 ON24 Audio Investor Alert: ON24's On the Move: Pervasive Plummets on  Profit Warning 

124 words
22 October 1999
19:58
Business Wire
BWR
English
(c) 1999  Business Wire

 --(BUSINESS WIRE)-- 

 Shares of Pervasive Software have been more than cut in half after the company warned Thursday that it would be ramping up spending to better promote its Tango Internet Development platform. Some analysts, including Joseph Payne, Sr. Vice President with Hoak Breedlove Wesneski & Co., were surprised by the move, but optimistic. 

 For the complete streaming audio story users should access http://www.on24.com/index.html?id=6391&type=av&ref=bizwire

 Ticker: (NASDAQ:PVSW) Company: Pervasive Software 

 To personalize your free audio/video investor alerts visit http://www.on24.com

Document bwr0000020010825dvam03f3k




BUSINESS
IBM, PHILIP MORRIS DOUSE DOW; NASDAQ GAINS

Deborah Stern, Bloomberg News   
737 words
22 October 1999
Charlotte Observer (NC)
CLTO
ONE-THREE
3D
English
Copyright 1999 The Charlotte Observer. All rights reserved.   

A Y2K profit warning by IBM spooked investors Thursday, but by the end of trading the Dow made up half its fall and the Nasdaq posted a gain.

The Dow Jones industrial average fell 94.67, or 0.9 percent, to 10,297.69, rebounding from a 214-point drop at the open. The average would have risen if not for IBM and Philip Morris Cos., which had a legal setback. The Standard & Poor's 500 Index fell 5.81, or 0.5 percent, to 1,283.62, led by computer shares.

"If IBM is experiencing this, then what about the Compaqs, what about the Suns, the EMCs?" said Dan Eagan, who helps oversee $142 billion at BlackRock Inc. in Philadelphia and holds IBM shares. "IBM had not been preparing the Street for this event, and now we have uncertainty across the hardware (industry)."

The Nasdaq Composite Index jumped 13.82, or 0.5 percent, to 2,801.95, turning a loss into a gain in the last hour and 15 minutes of trading as telecommunications equipment makers including Qualcomm Inc. soared.

Three stocks fell for every two that rose on the New York Stock Exchange.

The market revived late in the day after Federal Reserve Board Governor Edward Kelley said the Fed "cannot and does not and will not" target stock prices. "We cannot determine if there is a bubble or not," said Kelley, speaking to certified financial analysts in Houston.

The market's rebound picked up steam as speculators who had sold borrowed stock on the expectation of repaying with cheaper shares were forced to buy to limit their losses. "This is late-day short-covering," said Larry Lawler, head of trading at Dreyfus Corp.

"If you take IBM and Philip Morris out of the Dow average, you're looking at a market that wasn't down all that much," Lawler said. Without IBM and Philip Morris, the Dow average would have risen about 33.

Last Friday, the Dow average suffered its biggest loss in a year after Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan warned investors against underestimating the risk in owning shares.

IBM fell $15.871/2 to $91.121/2. It expects customers to delay buying mainframe computers because they're testing their systems to make sure they will work in the new millennium.

Microsoft Corp. which set off a rally in computer shares Wednesday when it reported better-than-expected third-quarter profit, rose 811/4 cents to $93.061/4.

Shares of Gateway Inc., the No. 2 direct seller of personal computers, soared 19 percent to a record after it unveiled an $800 million investment from America Online Inc., the world's largest online service.

Gateway rose $10 to $62 in trading of 9.48 million shares, making it the second-largest percentage gainer on the New York Stock Exchange. The stock has more than doubled this year.

Some investors jumped in to buy shares that had tumbled in the morning, traders said.

"The pressure's off," said Paul Hennessey, head of trading at Boston Partners Asset Management. "These people are seeing tech stocks in a more lengthy time period and realizing, `Hey, these things are cheap.' "

The decline is "transitory," and it's a "brilliant time" to buy IBM stock, said Michael Holland, chairman of money manager Holland & Co. IBM comprises 3 percent of his portfolio. "It's selling at a steep discount to the market," Holland said, and he plans to buy more IBM over the next few days.

Tobacco stocks slumped for a second day after a Florida appeals court ruled they may be forced to pay a lump-sum damage award in a smokers' class-action lawsuit. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings Inc. fell $3.683/4 to $19.25.

Amgen Inc., the world's largest biotechnology company, fell after the company warned investors that earnings growth will slow next year.

Wednesday, the company reported third-quarter results, warning earnings-per-share growth will slow next year to "the low double digits" as it boosts spending in preparation for introducing three drugs. Those products are likely to hit the market in 2001.

Investors sold shares Thursday, betting they can buy them back when the outlook for the three drug candidates is more certain.

Amgen shares fell $6 to close at $80.121/2.

Document CLTO000020090629dvam02klv




 October Chill: Inflation Fears Make This a Crueler Month For American Stocks --- Benign Consumer-Price Data Soothed Many Investors, But Left Others Worried --- Greenspan's `Got Me Scared' 

 By Greg Ip 
Staff Reporter
2,280 words
22 October 1999
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
1
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 In the last two autumns, investors stampeded out of the world's biggest stock market, sending American blue chips down 13% and 19%, respectively, and dealing the 1990s bull market its worst setbacks to date. But on both occasions share prices snapped back smartly and went on to set records. 

 Once again it is October, and once again American investors are skittish, as Thursday's 200-point early drop on the Dow Jones Industrial Average shows. But the underlying fears are different this time around -- different enough to cast doubt on how much longer this bull can keep running. 

 The difference is that turmoil in emerging markets and panic in the U.S. debt markets fueled the pullbacks of 1997 and 1998. Both times, the U.S. Federal Reserve stood ready to help. This time, the market jitters began with plain, old-fashioned worries about inflation. And inflation's record as a killer of bull markets is unmatched. 

 You may have thought that this week's benign consumer-price data laid U.S. inflation jitters to rest. Guess again. Though the leading cause of Thursday's drop on the Dow Jones Industrials was a profit warning from International Business Machines Corp., the sell-off also reflected fears that the Fed will move next month to head off inflation by raising rates. 

 Investors have plenty of reasons to fret. Oil prices have doubled in the past year, gold has leapt from the doldrums to more than $300 (279 euros) an ounce, U.S. wholesale prices for last month registered their biggest gain in nine years, and to top it all off, there is the perception -- right or wrong -- that the Fed wants this correction to happen. 

 During the 1997 and 1998 crises, Bruce Kendall, a Houston engineer and investor, either loaded up on stocks or stood pat. But this year, after the Fed twice raised rates, gold rallied and bond yields climbed, he concluded, "We've got a problem here." A few weeks ago, after consulting with some fellow investors, he sold about 30% of his $100,000-plus stock portfolio in just two days. "The Asian and Russian crises were crises of confidence," he says. "This is a little different: Inflation coming back up and the Fed raising rates to combat it. It's a little more real this time." 

 Yet for all that intensity of feeling, rising inflation remains just a fear, not a fact. Many of the forces that have kept inflation in check -- from rising productivity to muted pay gains -- remain in place. This week's closely watched consumer-price report, in contrast to last week's producer-price report, was exactly as expected. Indeed, economists say it showed that the "core" inflation rate -- which strips out the most volatile components -- has actually slowed in the past year to 1.9% from 2.4% 

 Though U.S. shares rose earlier this week, reflecting investors' relief that inflation wasn't out of control, the Dow Jones industrials, which fell 94.67 to 10297.69 on Thursday, are still 9.1% below their August peak. The industrial average finished last week 11.5% off its peak, thus handily meeting Wall Street's rule of thumb for a correction -- a 10% or greater decline in value. 

 The market's continuing jitters underscore the fact that stocks respond to expectations, not just reality. And if expectations of a resurgence in inflation prove to be well-founded, price stability -- one of a remarkable set of ingredients that have lifted stock prices threefold since the end of 1994 -- would be removed from the mix. 

 "The fundamentals really are changing," says Richard Bernstein, chief quantitative strategist at Merrill Lynch. "The story in the financial markets during the past several years was disinflation," or a declining inflation rate, "then deflation," or falling prices, he says. "We think the next story will be inflation." 

 To many on Wall Street, the 1997 and 1998 retreats didn't feel like a bear market at the time because the traditional bear-market factors weren't in place. The economic crises in Asia, Russia and other emerging markets, far from hurting the U.S. economy, ultimately helped it by driving down the cost of commodities and imported goods, thereby suppressing inflation and creating the climate for lower interest rates. By contrast, almost every bear market in the past 50 years has begun with inflation pressure and a sharp increase in interest rates by the Federal Reserve, often tipping the economy into recession. 

 Even if inflation is on the way back, it wouldn't necessarily bring on a bear market, generally defined as a sustained drop of 20% or more in blue-chip stocks. For example, in 1994, the Fed raised interest rates sharply to head off potential inflation, but stocks finished the year roughly flat. Indeed, many investors now stand ready to buy when they think the correction has run its course. "I expect the decline will continue until early November, and at that point I may purchase some shares," says Herbert Madsen, a retired computer programmer who lives near San Antonio. And Mr. Kendall, the Houston investor, is preparing to buy back some of the shares of Lucent Technologies Inc. he sold just a few weeks ago. 

 But a return of inflation would still test many of the assumptions that have taken the market to levels almost unimaginable five years ago. And, if stocks are indeed a speculative bubble, an inflation scare might be just what it takes to burst it. 

 From the end of 1994 to its peak of 11326 in August, the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose about 7,500 points, or 195%. Rising corporate earnings accounted for roughly half of that gain. The remainder reflected the rising price investors were willing to pay for each dollar of earnings, or the price-earnings ratio. That rising ratio reflected several factors: increased confidence that earnings growth wouldn't be interrupted by recession, a perception that stocks weren't as risky as they used to be, and perhaps most important, confidence that inflation wouldn't erode the value of future profits. 

 Ironically, the stock market itself has emerged as a candidate to undermine the foundation of its own success. Members of the Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed's policy-making body, fretted at their August meeting that stocks' "sharp rise and the associated increase in wealth over the course of recent years [has] helped to foster a high level of consumer confidence and willingness to spend," according to the minutes of that meeting. Economists believe consumers usually spend some portion of any new wealth, and some argue that's just why the savings rate has turned negative and a consumption binge now is threatening to drive up wages and prices. 

 The Fed is thus in a position opposite to where it stood during the previous corrections. By late 1997, as one Asian economy after another succumbed to financial panic, the Fed dropped the bias toward rate-tightening that it adopted earlier in the year. In the autumn of 1998, after Russia's default provoked a crippling freeze in U.S. credit markets, the Fed slashed interest rates 0.75 percentage point. By contrast, this year it has raised rates 0.5 percentage point, in effect taking back most of last autumn's easing, and two weeks ago it said its bias now was toward raising rates further, rather than leaving them alone. 

 Far from fretting over the market's tumble, the Fed is "secretly cheering," says Credit Suisse First Boston economist Rosanne Cahn. "In order for the economy to slow, stock prices have to go down and stay down." 

 If an unfriendly Fed is viewed as putting a lid on the Dow Jones industrials somewhere north of 11000, then it is also likely that investors' ingrained "buy-the-dips" mentality forms a floor somewhere, as well. In the middle of last year's sell-off, the Dow industrials briefly were down 20% from their peak, but when they touched 7400, a wave of buying brought them back. Today, while mutual-fund managers are low on cash, individual investors, who often have shown greater faith in stocks than professionals, hold plentiful money-market funds. But will they put that cash to work? 

 Earlier this year, Don Nightingale, 65, a mergers-and-acquisitions consultant in St. Paul, Minnesota, shifted his portfolio to 60% stocks from 100%, putting the balance in money-market funds, and he has resisted adding anew to his stock holdings. The investor, who says he made the shift because of his age, describes himself as "paranoid about inflation. I lived through the late `70s and `80s and watched the purchasing power of the dollar evaporate so much. I'm getting ready to go into my golden years and obviously that's a high concern." 

 The perception that the Fed is ready to knock the market back every time the Dow Jones industrials pop up is earning it a great deal of enmity among small investors. "Improper and arrogant" is how Mark Longhi, an investor and former business owner in Tucson, Arizona, describes Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan's warnings about the stock market in an online forum moderated by The Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition. 

 In July he put 60% of his three children's university money "into good quality blue-chip stocks, and they're getting creamed." He doesn't see the inflation threat. He says that when he went shopping for a Chevrolet Camaro for his university-age daughter the other day, he found it priced $3,000 below a lesser-powered Nissan Altima he leased three years ago. 

 But Mr. Longhi also doesn't believe you can "fight the Fed." 

 "He's got me scared," says Mr. Longhi, speaking of Mr. Greenspan. "You never know when he's going to open his mouth again." 

 Despite such sentiments, the Fed says it isn't trying to pop a stock-market bubble. But it is concerned about inflation -- in part stemming from the elevated value of assets, such as stocks -- and some economists say that the end result is similar: higher interest rates that have the effect of damping stock prices. 

 Yet some Fed officials continue to sound ebullient about the inflation outlook, despite the central bank's "tightening bias." Last week, Edward Boehne, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, said he expects "relatively low inflation for the coming year at least, and probably longer." And Jack Guynn, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, said at a conference on financial crises Monday that even though stocks have more effect on the economy than they used to, Wall Street is overstating their influence on Fed thinking. 

 But Wall Street continues to perceive stocks as an inflationary threat that could prompt Fed action. "You have this weird circularity," says William Dudley, head of U.S. economic research at Goldman Sachs. "The stock market is going down because they're worried about the Fed tightening, but if the stock market goes down, the Fed won't tighten, so the stock market will go up. There's no sustainable equilibrium." 

 In its August minutes, FOMC members said, "The absence of further large gains in stock prices, should recent trends persist, would remove this stimulus and probably induce some moderation in the growth of consumer spending." 

 But there may be other reasons for the Fed to tighten credit, such as rebounding prices of goods and services in previously beaten-down sectors. A year ago, just 20% of the sectors surveyed by Prudential Securities economists were raising prices, while 47% were cutting them. By the last quarter, 44% were raising prices, and 26% were cutting them. Surveys by the National Association of Purchasing Management also find that for the first time in years, members find more prices rising than falling. 

 But investors have seen such scares before, and they came to nothing. The market underwent a brief pullback in the first quarter of 1997 when the Fed raised rates one-quarter of a percentage point as a pre-emptive move on inflation. Stocks turned course when those fears came to naught. 

 Even now, signs of deflation still are evident. One factor that has fueled the stock-market correction was a disappointing profit report last week from Intel Corp., partly the result of a price war raging between it and rival Advanced Micro Devices in low-priced microprocesssor chips. 

 Many analysts such as Mr. Bernstein think the real victims of the current inflation scare won't be stocks in general, but rather the "Nifty 50." These are the blue-chip growth stocks in the Dow Jones Industrials and Standard & Poor's 500 stock index that have led the market for the last year and a half while the average stock has struggled. Because inflation's effect compounds over time, its retreat has been most beneficial for growth stocks, whose biggest profits are years away. 

 For his part, Mr. Kendall, the Houston investor, sees the correction as simply "a readjustment to the levels we were at before the Asia crisis. I still believe we're in a bull market. I'm getting ready to buy back in." 

 Even the inflation-phobic Mr. Nightingale calls inflation "just one of another" set of things "you try to look at. The stock market is always an irrational beast. It's more irrational than normal." 

 --- 

 Ruth Simon contributed to this article. 

Document wsje000020010830dvam00i4q




Abreast of the Market
 Sun Microsystems, Legato Fall As Y2K Concerns Hit Tech Stocks 

 By Robert O'Brien 
Dow Jones Newswires
972 words
22 October 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
C2
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 NEW YORK -- Earnings woes cost International Business Machines more than $28.88 billion of market capitalization in Big Board composite trading but failed to dislodge optimism about the earnings prospects of some Internet mavericks. 

 IBM, suffering the fallout of the pessimistic profit outlook it released with its third-quarter earnings late Wednesday, took the thrashing most everyone expected. The stock fell 21 3/4 in New York Stock Exchange primary trading; in composite trading, IBM fell 16 to 91. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 94.67 points, or 0.91%, to 10297.69. Strip out IBM's loss and the industrial average would have finished with a gain. 

 IBM's gloomy profit outlook sparked pessimism in some portions of the high-technology sector and prompted some losses. Computer-services provider Computer Sciences fell 3 to 59 1/2. Sun Microsystems fell 3 7/16 to 92 7/8 on Nasdaq, after PaineWebber lowered its rating on the computer-products maker, citing concern about year-2000 issues. 

 Legato Systems, a maker of computer backup software, dropped 6 3/4 to 46 1/2 on Nasdaq, even though the Palo Alto, Calif., company came through with a solid third-quarter profit late Wednesday. Analysts said investors were spooked by IBM's warning that Y2K problems could slow corporate technology buying during the next two quarters. 

 "Some people might find some satisfaction in seeing that the generals are joining the rest of the troops in the land of broken stocks," said Thomas Galvin, chief investment strategist at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. "Clearly, this is an unpleasant situation, but the fallout from IBM is limited in its impact." 

 In fact, with IBM in distress, investors took a closer look at names in the pharmaceutical, financial and manufacturing sectors. 

 Merck, which lived up to analysts' profit forecasts Wednesday, rose 2 15/16 to 78 5/8. Eli Lilly, which fell Wednesday after releasing weak earnings, recovered 2 9/16 to 68 3/16. Johnson & Johnson rose 2 5/16 to 104 13/16. 

 Among financials, Chase Manhattan extended Wednesday's gains, rising 1 13/16 to 77 5/8, while J.P. Morgan increased 1 11/16 to 117 3/16. Capital One Financial added 1 3/16 to 41 3/8. 

 DuPont moved ahead 2 to 63 7/8, helped by enthusiasm for chemicals stocks after Dow Chemical blew past analysts' earnings forecasts for the third quarter. Dow Chemical shot ahead 5 3/8 to 116 5/16. Its merger partner, Union Carbide, increased 3 to 59 3/4. 

 With the broad market looking beyond the earnings weakness in IBM, the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index finished with a moderate loss, down 5.82, or 0.45%, to 1283.61. 

 High-technology issues exposed to the Internet showed strength. Conexant, for example, a Newport Beach, Calif., maker of semiconductor products used in communications and computer applications, rose 12 7/16 to 82 3/8 on Nasdaq. Lehman Brothers said it raised its earnings estimates in the wake of the company's stronger-than-expected fiscal fourth-quarter profit issued late Wednesday. 

 Software.com (Nasdaq), a Santa Barbara, Calif., maker of messaging software, rose 14 5/8 to a 52-week high of 66 1/4. Credit Suisse First Boston launched coverage of the stock, extolling the strength of the company's earnings released late Wednesday. 

 Vignette, an Austin, Texas, provider of electronic-commerce services, rose 38 3/4 to 157 13/16 on Nasdaq on the heels of its third-quarter profit report. 

 Analysts attributed at least some of the runup in the sector to enthusiasm generated by America Online's stronger-than-expected fiscal first-quarter profit. Lehman Brothers reiterated a buy rating on the stock, saying it expected the company to lead Internet stocks higher through the end of the year. 

 "Once the highfliers on Nasdaq started responding, it turned what had been a lousy trading day into a garden-variety loss by some averages," said Donald Selkin, chief investment strategist at Joseph Gunnar. 

 Kimberly-Clark rose 3 11/16 to 59 9/16. PaineWebber responded to the Dallas household-products maker's third-quarter profit by raising its earnings estimates for the fourth quarter. 

 Coca-Cola gained 1 9/16 to 54 5/16. The Atlanta beverage maker reported its third-quarter earnings fell 11% but matched analysts' forecasts. 

 SmithKline Beecham's American depositary shares fell 7 9/16 to 60. The British drug maker reported a 16% gain in pretax profit for the third quarter. The company also said European drug regulators issued a negative opinion on the company's new diabetes treatment, Avandia. 

 Nokia, responding to a strong profit showing, climbed 8 1/4 to 104. 

 Tyco eased 1 3/8 to 87. The Bermuda maker of medical supplies and fluid control devices reported fiscal fourth-quarter profit before one-time items that topped analysts' projections. 

 Silicon Graphics dropped 2 1/4 to 7 3/4. The Mountain View, Calif., workstations maker reported a wider first-quarter operating loss than analysts anticipated. 

 Robert Half International gained 1 3/4 to 26 1/8. Warburg Dillon Read raised its rating on the stock, citing the stronger-than-expected third-quarter profit the company released earlier in the week. 

 Mattel fell 3/16 to 13 1/8. The El Segundo, Calif., toy maker reported thirdquarter earnings that topped forecasts. However, sales slipped in the quarter and it reported a substantial loss at its Learning Co. unit. 

 E.W. Scripps failed to benefit from some encouraging comments from analysts, losing 1 13/16 to 43. Prudential Securities raised its rating and its earnings forecast for the Cincinnati media company. 

Document j000000020010828dvam00t2x




 Dollar Posts Losses Against Yen, Euro Amid Drop In Blue-Chip Stocks 

550 words
21 October 1999
13:42
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- The dollar posted losses against the yen, euro and other European currencies Thursday as traders focused on a decline in U.S. blue-chip stocks. 

 Late Thursday in New York, the dollar was quoted at 105.95 yen, down from 106.60 yen late Wednesday. The euro was quoted at $1.0811, up from $1.0742 late Wednesday. The British pound was quoted at $1.6758, up sharply from $1.6636 late Wednesday. 

 The dollar came under selling pressure as an unexpected profitwarning from International Business Machines Corp. late Wednesday cast a dark shadow over Wall Street. IBM warned it will experience a millenium-related slowdown in the fourth quarter of 1999 and early 2000. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed down 94.67 points, or 0.9%, at 10297.69 amid a sharp drop in heavily-weighted IBM shares. At its low point Thursday, the Dow was down nearly 215 points, after climbing 187 points Wednesday. 

 "The possibility of a downward correction in global stock markets continues to contaminate sentiment towards the dollar," noted Michael Lewis, currency economist at Deutsche Bank. 

 As euro-zone and Japanese markets become more attractive, the dollar has become quite sensitive to indications that foreign investors are putting U.S. assets up for sale. 

 Meanwhile, the euro briefly slipped, but quickly recovered, after the European Central Bank said it would keep its key refinancing rate unchanged at 2.5%. While the move was widely expected, it initially appeared to disappoint a few euro bulls who were hoping a rate increase would boost the European currency. Most traders expect the ECB to raise rates in the coming weeks, so the latest decision's effect on the euro was short-lived. 

 Economists are now looking ahead to the next council meeting on Nov. 4 for a possible rise. ECB President Wim Duisenberg said two weeks ago that the ECB was prepared to tighten policy as soon as it gets more signs of a strengthening economy. 

 "People are more and more certain that European growth is back," said Jacques Delpla, European economist at Barclays Capital in Paris, who expects a quarter-point rate hike by the ECB in two weeks. 

 Delpla said more and more of his European clients worry about their U.S. investments, because they are afraid of a decline in the stock market or the dollar. 

 "Many are rethinking their positions and buying European stocks," Delpla said. "This is what is pushing the euro higher." 

 Meanwhile, the British pound has benefited from the United Kingdom's maintenance of higher interest rates, higher than those in the euro zone. Like the ECB, the Bank of England is widely expected to raise its lending rate at its November meeting. 

 The dollar was also quoted late Thursday at 1.4744 Swiss francs, down from 1.4829 Swiss francs late Wednesday in New York, and at 1.4816 Canadian dollars, down from C$1.4872 late Wednesday. 

 In Latin America, Mexico's peso closed slightly weaker against the dollar. In Mexico City, the peso was quoted at 9.6550 per dollar, compared with 9.6380 pesos per dollar late Wednesday. 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dval006m3




 Pillowtex Junk Bonds Fall 8 Pts On 3rd Quarter  Profit Warning 

11 words
21 October 1999
20:36
Capital Markets Report
CM
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

Document cm00000020010826dval01l9q




 Technology Journal: Increase in Memory-Chip Cost May Not Drive Up PC Prices 

 By Gary McWilliams and Dean Takahashi 
Staff Reporters
669 words
21 October 1999
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
8
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 The boost in memory-chip prices that prompted Dell Computer Corp. to warn of lower-than-expected earnings isn't likely to broadly hit personal-computer prices during the coming peak sales season, according to market watchers. 

 Dell's decision to boost prices or reduce the amount of memory in its PCs reflects its own ultralean inventory system and an outsized bet on a high-speed memory technology that went awry. Analysts say Dell was forced to seek memory chips at a time when prices were rising and suppliers were locked up. 

 Dell's warning about its fiscal third-quarter profit and continued worries about potential PC-parts shortages from the recent Taiwan earthquake prompted a sharp sell-off in PC stocks Tuesday. Dell shares, which fell 6.8%, were trading Wednesday morning around $39.3125 (36.26 euros), up 81.25 cents. 

 However, Gateway Inc., Compaq Computer Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co. all said their businesses aren't being similarly affected. A Compaq spokesman said the Houston company expects "no material impact" from the shortages. Gateway also said it wouldn't reduce the amount of memory installed on its PCs. 

 "The pricing volatility that Dell has experienced is not matched by other vendors," said PaineWebber Inc. analyst Don Young. "The only way it could have happened is if they were big spot (market) buyers," he said. 

 On Monday, Texas-based Dell said its costs for memory chips have soared, rising as much as 25% in a recent one-week period. Company executives said the suddenness of the increases caught it off guard, prompting it to reduce memory in its PCs or raise prices. 

 Dell insisted it hasn't stepped up its purchases in the spot market, where prices tend to be higher. In comments to Wall Street analysts, Chief Financial Officer Thomas J. Meredith said spot-market purchases "are a very small percentage of what we buy. It hasn't deviated much in my seven years here." A Dell spokesman said the prices it pays for memory chips aren't fixed but are based on an index of market pricing. 

 Analysts say the company's lean inventories hurt it in this instance. Dell's low-inventory style "is backfiring on it," says Ashok Kumar, an analyst at U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray. "Dell has forced suppliers to take on the entire liability (of rapid price declines). It's coming back and biting them." 

 David Wu, a semiconductor analyst with ABN Amro Inc., said Dell's memory problems also stem from its bet on a new chip technology designed to boost computer performance. Called Rambus memory technology, it was to be used in Dell workstations and server computers beginning in September. 

 The company halted any use of the chips after Intel Corp. indefinitely postponed a chip-set required to deploy the memory. 

 "Dell was taking the lead on that. There was nobody else around that bullish on Rambus," Mr. Wu said. 

 A Dell spokesman said the use of Rambus memory was never intended to be a significant share of its sales in the fiscal third quarter ending Oct. 31. 

 Auguring well for PC buyers, memory supplies are increasing, say analysts. Magnus Ryde, president of the U.S. division of Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., the world's largest contract chip manufacturer, said his company has had to place all of its customers on allocation for chip shipments. But Mr. Ryde said the shortage is occurring not because of damage to production facilities from the earthquake itself but because customers are ordering more chips than they forecast they would order in August. 

 "It isn't news that everybody is being put on allocation," he said. "That was happening before the quake. But people are overshooting. When demand moves forward, it usually takes an imaginary leap first. Now people are wanting a lot more than they wanted just a month ago." 

Document wsje000020010830dval00hzd


BUSINESS NEWS
BUSINESS UPDATE

608 words
21 October 1999
Peoria Journal Star
PRJS
ALL
A11
English
Copyright 1999, Peoria Journal Star. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

KEYWORD-HIT. Technology stocks break out of slump

NEW YORK -- Technology stocks broke out of their slump Wednesday after Microsoft's better-than-expected earnings report raised hopes that demand for computers will remain strong.

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 187.43 to close at 10,392.36. The Nasdaq composite index, which lists many of the world's leading technology companies, was up 99.95 at 2,788.13. Broader indicators also rose, with the Standard & Poor's 500 gaining 28.11 to 1,289.43. Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by a 7-to-6 margin on the New York Stock Exchange.

NYSE volume totaled 1.11 billion shares, compared with 1.09 billion in the previous session.

The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 3.01 to 413.94. IBM issues warning about Y2K problems NEW YORK -- IBM's third-quarter profit grew 14 percent as the e-commerce explosion drove demand for computer software and services, but the company's stock plunged after a stern warning that hardware sales are being hit hard by Y2K fears.

International Business Machines Corp. posted an operating profit of $1.69 billion, or 90 cents per share, for the July-September period.

Those figures exclude a $366 million gain from the sale of the company's Web services unit to AT&T Corp. and other one-time factors that gave IBM a net profit of $1.76 billion, or 93 cents per share.

By contrast, IBM earned $1.49 billion or 78 cents a share in the year-ago period, when there were no one-time factors.

The operating profit for the three months ended Sept. 30 was in line with analyst forecasts, according to a survey by First Call/Thomson Financial. United Parcel Service to go public next month ATLANTA, Ga. -- United Parcel Service could raise as much as $4.6 billion in its initial public offering set for next month, according to a document the company filed Wednesday with federal regulators.

UPS said in the Securities and Exchange Commission filing that it expects to sell 109.4 million shares valued at $36 to $42 per share after a 2-for-1 split planned immediately before the IPO. The package delivery giant announced in July that it plans to sell 10 percent of its common stock to the public.

If the offering goes forward at the higher price of $42 per share, it would be the largest ever, valued at about $4.6 billion.

The largest IPO was last year's $4 billion offering by the oil company Conoco. Last year, Goldman Sachs, the securities firm, raised $3.66 billion when it went public in the second-largest IPO ever. Amazon.com battling store over trademark MINNEAPOLIS -- The owners of a feminist bookstore involved in a trademark infringement dispute with Amazon.com want the online company barred from asking about their sexual orientation.

Amazon Bookstore said that such matters are irrelevant and that its owners should not have to answer such questions, which were posed during pretrial depositions last month.

"We were outraged by it," said Barbara Wieser, the store's general manager. "What does our sexual preference have to do with a trademark case? Nothing."

The bookstore sued Amazon.com in April over its use of the name Amazon, saying it creates confusion in the public mind.

Amazon.com says it intends to demonstrate that Amazon Bookstore caters to lesbians, while the Internet company has a general-interest audience. "If you're not in the same business, the likelihood of confusion declines dramatically," said Amazon.com spokesman Bill Curry.

Document PRJS000020100606dval029rx




 Pound jumps vs dollar, gains vs euro. 

237 words
21 October 1999
12:16
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 1105 GMT - Pound rises more than 1/2 cent above $1.67, firming to within 1/4 cent of its 1999 peaks vs dollar, advances vs the euro as traders reposition themselves ahead of Friday's British GDP figures. 

 * Independent research firm NTS said two leading indicators of UK economic growth rose in Sept, pointing to significant rise in the pace of GDP expansion by the end of next summer. 

 * Analysts are expecting Britain's GDP to rise 0.8 pct q/q, 1.7 pct y/y in Q3. Q2 GDP was up 0.6 pct q/q, 1.4 pct y/y. * M&A related activity after German telecom firm Mannesmann confirmed bid for UK cellphone firm Orange aiding pound vs euro. 


* Pound	  at $1.6722/29 vs 1999 peak of $1.6745 and $1.6658/66 late on Wed.
* Euro/sterling	     at day's highs at 64.42/48 pence vs 64.67/71 in late Europe on Wednesday.



* Market awaits outcome of European Central Bank meeting at 1145 GMT. Majority of economists polled by Reuters expect ECB to keep euro interest rates steady.



* Dow Jones open this afternoon also eyed after S&P futures dropped after Wednesday's U.S. floor trading close on IBM profit warning.



((Lisa Jucca, London Capital Markets 0171 542 6745, elisabetta.jucca@reuters.com)).



(C) Reuters Limited 1999.


Document lba0000020010909dval01hs9




 U.S. Treasuries edge up in London, eyes on ECB. 

510 words
21 October 1999
11:09
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, Oct 21 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasuries were a touch higher in quiet London trade on Thursday following some overnight Asian buying, with the market's attention focused on the European Central Bank meeting. 

 The ECB's decision on interest rates is due at 1145 GMT. Analysts said that the market was closely monitoring the ECB meeting for its implications on the Federal Reserve's (Fed) own policy decisions. 

 Both central banks are expected to hike rates in the near term, with most analysts calling for a rate hike in Europe in two weeks' time and one in the U.S. on November 16. 

 "It's very quiet. We're just waiting for the ECB. I think if they go (raise rates) the market has a chance to do a little bit better than if they don't," said a London-based Treasuries trader. 

 He said there had been some buying out of Asia, especially in the belly of the curve, but that not much else was going on. 

 At 0950 GMT, the benchmark long bond was trading four ticks higher from the New York close at 97-10, yielding 6.326 percent. 

 "We are a little bit higher but certainly the more positive tone in the equity markets is capping the upside at the moment," said Philip Tyson, bond strategist at HSBC Markets in London. 

 After brief dips below 10,000 on Friday and Monday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average has rebounded in recent sessions and was up 187 points on Wednesday. 

 European shares traded mixed on Thursday after signs that an IBM profit warning could knock U.S. shares. At 1004 GMT, S&P futures were down 7.4 points, indicating a weaker open for the Dow. 

 Analysts said that in the absence of any market moving economic data on either side of the Atlantic, attention would later shift to the Fed officials speaking on Thursday. 

 Fed Bank of Cleveland President Jerry Jordan speaks on "The Search for Global Monetary Order" at 1310 GMT; Chicago Fed President Michael Moskow speaks at a conference in Illinois at 1330 GMT; Richmond Fed President Alfred Broaddus speaks on the current economic situation at 1800 GMT. 

 Tyson said that investors were mainly concerned about U.S. interest rate policy decisions and they would therefore be paying close attention to the Fed officials for any clues. 

 "We can't see the market recover significant ground until we get some sort of move from the Fed out of the way," Tyson said. 

 The trader also said that as long as the Fed didn't raise rates, the market was going to trade poorly because the perception is that they should hike at least 25 basis points and maybe more. 

 "Until you get those moves, there's no reason to buy." 

 He said the next big data was going to be the employment cost index (ECI) out next Thursday and that the market would likely be under pressure until then. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010909dval01hcj




 Jittery pound slips vs dollar, struggles vs euro. 

184 words
21 October 1999
10:58
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 0940 GMT - Pound drops around 1/4 cent vs dollar in choppy trading after sell order by a U.S. bank, traders say, struggles to break free from tight ranges vs euro. 


* Pound	  at $1.6670/80 vs earlier low of $1.6644 and $1.6658/66 late on Wed. Pound seen capped at $1.6690, prop at $1.6625/30 seen holding until results of ECB meeting on rates.
* Euro/sterling	     at 64.57/63 pence vs 64.67/71 in late Europe on Wednesday. Dealers said the pound was under pressure from European bank sales earlier in the session.


 * No key UK economic data due out Thursday. 

 * Market awaits outcome of European Central Bank meeting later on Thursday. Majority of economists polled by Reuters expect ECB to keep euro interest rates steady. 

 * Dow Jones opening this afternoon also eyed after S&P futures dropped after Wednesday's U.S. floor trading close on IBM profit warning. 

 ((Lisa Jucca, London Capital Markets 0171 542 6745, elisabetta.jucca@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010909dval01h9w




 CORRECT: Compaq Sees Shipment Delays, Not Earns Shortfall 

73 words
20 October 1999
21:08
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Compaq Computer Corp. (CPQ) warned of "spot delays" of some product shipments due, in part, to the recent Taiwan earthquake. However, the company hasn't issued a third-quarter profit warning. 

 (A Smartmoney.com story at 6:22 p.m. EDT Tuesday may have implied that Compaq had issued a third-quarter profit warning similar to the one Dell Computer Corp. (DELL) issued on Monday.) 

Document dj00000020010827dvak06yc6


WALL STREET
BUSINESS
DOW CLIMBS AFTER INFLATION REPORT

78 words
20 October 1999
Press-Telegram
KRTLB
AM
A19
English
Copyright 1999, Press-Telegram. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

Blue-chip stocks rose Tuesday after a report of moderate inflation calmed investors' fears of higher interest rates, but their renewed optimism failed to lift technology stocks, which slumped following a profit warning from Dell.

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 88.65 to close at 10,204.93, extending its gain of 96.57 on Monday. The index fell back from an earlier gain of 219 points.

Document KRTLB00020101019dvak00nk2


SCHOOL BRIEF: Candy sales warning issued J

149 words
20 October 1999
Kitsap Sun
KITSAP
N12
English
Copyright 1999 Scripps Howard Publishing, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

Schools have recently received a warning from the state Attorney General's Office concerning lawsuits filed against several candy peddlers for violating state child labor laws and hiring children to sell candy for a profit.

Don't confuse these sales with local community and school groups.

If you suspect you may not be dealing with a legitimate fund raising group, the warning recommends the following actions: Ask about the organization; ask to see literature; ask the children if they receive money from the sale of the products; read the small print on any product; ask the children if there is an adult who is supervising them and if they have a way to contact that adult.

If you have a concern about a group selling door to door, call your local authorities, or the Attorney General's Office at (800) 551-4636.

Document KITSAP0020100220dvak00vpm


 Chicago Tribune Market Report Column 

 Bill Barnhart 
908 words
20 October 1999
KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Chicago Tribune - Illinois
KRTBN
English
Copyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)

 STOCKS CLOSED MOSTLY HIGHER Tuesday as investors looked past an unsurprising report on consumer price inflation in September and focused instead on the latest batch of corporate earnings. 

 Inflation and interest-rate fears continued to hold sway in the bond market, however, sending Treasury bond prices to their seventh loss in eight sessions and lifting interest rates. 

 Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan gave a speech but this time offered no critique of stock and bond prices or the economic outlook, much to the relief of Wall Street. 

 After the close of New York trading, software giant Microsoft posted better-than-expected third-quarter results and saw its shares jump in after-hours electronic trading. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 88.65 points, to 10,204.93. After the much-anticipated monthly consumer prices report produced no shock, a so-called relief rally, which took the Dow up nearly 220 points in the morning, faded. But the Dow was able to rebound from break-even at mid-day. 

 New York Stock Exchange floor volume totaled 900 million shares. 

 Among the 30 Dow industrials, financial-service stocks continued their recent rebound. American Express rose $2, to $139.87, and CitiGroup added $1.25, to $44.94. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 index gained 7.19, to 1261.32. Winning issues edged losers by about an 8-to-7 ratio among NYSE-listed stocks. 

 Computer-technology stocks posted mixed results. Dell Computer fell $2.81, to $38.50, as the most-active Nasdaq stock after the company issued a profit warning late Monday. 

 The Nasdaq composite index slipped 0.97, to 2688.18, and the Russell 2000 index of small-company stocks rose 2.03 to 410.93. 

 Microsoft's profit report may offset the Dell news. 

 In case there was any doubt about the lead-steer role played in the market by Microsoft, the federal judge considering the antitrust case against Microsoft said Tuesday would issue his rulings on a Friday after 6:30 p.m. Eastern time, presumably to give global markets a better chance to digest the outcome. Even the federal judiciary knows financial markets are nervous. 

 But the near-term outlook is brighter than spot news on Microsoft, periodic economic reports or third-quarter earnings, according to some analysts. Marshall Front, chairman of Chicago-based investment firm Front Barnett Associates, said the recent revival in drug and financial-service stocks in the face of higher interest rates suggests the stock market is getting a new wind. 

 GREENSPAN RERUN: Remarks by Greenspan in a speech to a Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta conference were pretty much recycled from a speech he gave last month on the structure of international financial markets. 

 Careful readers of Greenspan's recent utterances will see a pattern in his jawboning. 

 Last year's global financial gridlock, coming on the heels of the Asian economic meltdown a year earlier, scared Greenspan and other financial leaders more than they let on at the time. Today's market volatility is a walk in the park compared to what was going on last year. 

 As a result, Greenspan's remarks have carried two major themes: 

 -- Lenders and investors need to be more skeptical in assessing the current riskiness of stocks, bonds and loans. 

 -- The world outside the United States and England must quickly develop "spare tires" in the form of new and free markets for financial assets to help out when existing financial intermediaries -- namely banks -- get punctured. 

 Greenspan's two themes, repeated often, arise from a single concern: averting a financial panic in an era when money moves around the world instantly and traders are inclined to shoot first and ask questions later. Tuesday's fairly short speech contained the words "crisis" or "crises" 18 times, along with such other loaded terms as "turmoil," "shock," "breakdown," "stress" and "distress." 

 Unfortunately, Greenspan's themes are in basic conflict. On the one hand, he wants more and freer markets for stocks bonds and related derivative products as a supplement to traditional bank lending in many parts of the world. He believes deeply that "efficient markets mitigate financial crises." 

 On the other hand, Greenspan's warnings about "irrational exuberance" and other such code words clearly suggest that he believes investors and lenders, operating in the current free markets, are failing to price financial assets correctly and need Uncle Alan to devalue their portfolios. 

 These are essentially incompatible viewpoints, and investors can only comfort themselves in the fact that on Tuesday, a day when the market was poised for a major October slide, Greenspan chose the former theme rather than the latter. 

 LOCAL NEWS: Standard & Poor's placed Decatur, Ill.-based Archer Daniels Midland under a review for a possible downgrade. S&P cited the prolonged recession in the agricultural industry. In the face of weak economic conditions, ADM has invested heavily and repurchased shares, which soak up cash that might otherwise be available to stand behind the company's debt, S&P said. ADM shares slipped 19 cents, to $11.87. 

 -- McWhorter Technologies, Carpentersville, a maker or resins and coloring agents for paint, said fiscal fourth-quarter earning per share will be 35 percent below year-earlier levels. The stock dropped $1, to $13. 

 -- Two directors of financially troubled Sabratek, a Skokie-based health-care cost-management firm, resigned. Shares fell 16 cents, to 56 cents. 

Document krtbn00020010828dvak01x0l


 StorageTek Considers Sale Among Recovery Options. 

283 words
19 October 1999
Computergram International
CGIN
ISSN: 0268-716X
English
Copyright 1999 Gale Group Inc. All rights reserved.

 Storage Technology Corp, the leading computer tape storage equipment maker, said on Friday that it had hired investment bankers to explore options, including a sale of the company, to pull it out of a stock market tailspin. Goldman, Sachs & Co and McKinsey & Co will look at the possibility of financial restructuring, acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs and business combinations, a statement from StorageTek said. The move comes in the wake of a profit warning, issued by the firm last Wednesday, which wiped almost 20% off the price of shares in Louisville, Colorado-based StorageTek. The shares have lost more than half of their value so far this year. The firm said third-quarter profits and revenues would not come up to expectations due to a customer-buying hiatus through the millennium date change and declining orders from long-time strategic partner, IBM Corp. 

 StorageTek has been overshadowed by arch-competitor, disk-drive maker, EMC Corp, which has claimed 30% revenue growth in each of the last two years compared to StorageTek's 5%. 

 Last month Iridian Asset Management LLC and its affiliates who said they held a 7.4% in the firm urged executives to put it up for sale or seek a strategic partner to replace IBM. Big Blue plans to stop reselling StorageTek's storage products and sell its own from next year as it enters direct competition with EMC. In a filing lodged with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Iridian said management had failed to create shareholder value while competitors had thrived. 

 StorageTek's share price stood at $15.94 near close of trading yesterday, down 6.25% for the day. 

FULL TEXT

Document cgin000020010826dvaj005kz




 INSTANT VIEW/U.S. stocks seen up after in line CPI. 

394 words
19 October 1999
13:43
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 19 (Reuters) - Wall Street stocks were expected to open higher Tuesday morning after the September Consumer Price index matched expectations, rising by 0.4 percent. 

 The co-called "core" CPI, which excluded food and energy prices, rose 0.3 percent, also matching expectations of economists polled by Reuters. 

 The report followed one on Friday that showed producer prices rose by 1.1 percent, well ahead of forecasts, with the core rate up a surprisingly high 0.8 percent. 

 Following are analysts' comments regarding the CPI report: 

 ARTHUR HOGAN, CHIEF MARKET ANALYST AT JEFFERIES & CO., BOSTON: 

 "This is absolutely terrific news about the CPI. It is just what the market needed. Maybe we can ignore Dell (Computer Corp.'s profit) warning and take this market higher." 

 "The ex-food and energy looks very benign." 

 ALAN ACKERMAN, SENIOR VP AND MARKET STRATEGIST, FAHNESTOCK AND CO 

 "The number came in in line. Last week's higher PPI number paved expectations of producer prices ready to make their way into consumer prices, but that did not happen. 

 "The market is still wary of what the Fed will do at the FOMC meeting. But it makes it a bit more difficult to justify (an interest) rate increase with a rate of inflation as low as it appears to be." 

 TRISTAN FROIDURE PORTFOLIO MANAGER, LIBERTY VIEW, JERSEY CITY, N.J. 

 "It's just as expected. Futures are already up. I think the market is going to take this well. (The stock market) is probably going to open up." 

 BARRY HYMAN, MARKET STRATEGIST, EHRENKRANTZ, KING NUSSBAUM INC. 

 I think it's a relief after the producer prices index on Friday. We did not get the corroborative evidence in the CPI that we saw in the PPI. It's good news. But I don't think its enough to keep the Fed from raising rates. I think you'll see a bond rally today and a good rally in stocks. 

 The December Standard & Poor's 500 index future rose 11.80 points to 1277.50, extending slender gains posted ahead of the CPI report. The 30-year U.S. Treasury rose 8/32 to yield 6.30 percent, also building on a narrow pre-CPI advance. ((Wall Street newsdesk 212-859-1730)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010909dvaj01sh9




World Stock Markets
 Asian Stocks Hit the Hardest as Global Markets Fall Again Amid Worries About U.S. Inflation 

 By Craig Karmin 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
1,298 words
19 October 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
C18
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 Jittery world markets fell sharply for the second consecutive session, with Asian stocks hit particularly hard. 

 Once again, the catalyst for the global sell-off was concern over U.S. inflation and rising interest rates. Those fears caused the Dow Jones Industrial Average to plunge 5.9% last week -- its worst weekly performance in percentage terms in 10 years -- and further unnerved investors in Asia, Europe and Latin America who have been following the lead of the U.S. for the past year. 

 But that may be about to change. Although caution prevailed in world markets yesterday and few bargain hunters were to be found, many investors believe global stocks are going through a transition period. In this new realm, foreign shares will trade more in line with their own fundamentals and be less dependent on the U.S. market for leadership. 

 "The only game in town has been the U.S. market," said Henry de Vismes, a portfolio manager for Citibank Asset Management in New York. "Now it's time for the rest of the world." 

 Yesterday, the Dow Jones World Stock Index fell 1.63, or 0.77%, to 211.29. Excluding the U.S., the index fell 3.06, or 1.88%, to 160.06. 

 Tokyo's benchmark index slid 1.9%, while markets in South Korea and Singapore fell by more than 3%. Stocks in Hong Kong -- which are particularly susceptible to a rise in U.S. interest rates because the currency is pegged to the U.S. dollar -- were spared by a holiday that closed the market. 

 In Europe, benchmark indexes in London, Frankfurt and Paris closed lower, but the declines were all less than 1%. 

 Analysts say volatility stemming from U.S. interest-rate concerns could spook global markets for the next several days, and the Dow Jones Industrial Average swung up and down before closing up 96.57 points, or 0.96% at 10116.28. 

 This morning, the government releases crucial consumer-price data that, if higher than expected, could press the Federal Reserve to raise rates next month. For the superstitious, today also marks the 12-year anniversary of the 1987 stock-market crash. 

 But for the first time since the end of 1997, when the eruption of the Asian currency crisis sent investors scrambling for the relative safety of U.S. securities, there are signs that global fund managers won't necessarily be taking their cue from the U.S. market much longer. 

 Recently, disappointing earnings from chip maker Intel and a profitwarning from defense contractor Raytheon damped hopes that third-quarter results would be as robust as investors have been anticipating. 

 Asia's emerging markets, meanwhile, are reporting surprisingly strong growth figures, and Japan has posted positive gross domestic product numbers for two straight quarters; Europe's economies have exhibited sufficient enough signs of life that many now believe the European Central Bank is about to raise interest rates. 

 "We know that fundamentals outside the U.S. are improving, both from an economic and earnings standpoint," said Citibank's Mr. de Vismes. "If the U.S. market settles down and becomes range bound, the rest of the world can continue to focus on those positive fundamentals." 

 In fact, there are already indications that this global investment transition is happening. For the first time since 1994, foreign stocks are poised to outperform share prices in the U.S. This year, the Dow Jones World Stock Index, excluding the U.S., is ahead nearly 11% year-to-date. Over that period, the U.S. component of Dow Jones Global Indexes, which consists of more than 700 companies in more than 100 industries, is up less than 1% and the Standard & Poor's 500 Index is up less than 2%. 

 In TOKYO, the Nikkei 225 Index fell 326.24 points, or 1.9%, to 17275.33. Industrial output data for August were revised downward, which combined with the poor performance of the U.S. market on Friday to pressure stocks. Nissan Motor fell 49 yen to 637 yen. After the market closed, the company said it would shut three assembly plants by March 2001 and cut purchasing costs by 20% by the fiscal year ending in March 2003. Nippon Telegraph & Telephone fell 90,000 yen to 1.38 million yen. Investors dumped the stock after Japan's finance ministry said Friday it would sell up to 952,000 NTT shares. 

 Sectors managing gains were mostly defensive ones, including natural gas, electric power and foods. Insurance stocks surged following news that three Japanese insurers were planning to merge. Mitsui Marine & Fire Insurance rose 62 yen to 705 yen, Nippon Fire & Marine Insurance added 49 yen to 444 yen, and Koa Fire & Marine Insurance ended 72 yen higher at 424 yen. 

 In SINGAPORE, the Straits Times Index dropped 3.3%, or 67.80 points, to 1993.45. DBS Group Holdings plunged 7% to 17.20 Singapore dollars after Singapore authorities ordered fund manager Brandes Investment Partners to reduce its stake in DBS to less than 5% from 7.1%. Foreign investors aren't permitted to own more than 5% of a bank's shares without prior approval from Singaporean authorities. Separately, the government said it would revise the rule on ownership of media companies to prevent any entity from controlling more than 3%. The announcement came after the government found out that Capital Group of the U.S. owned 5% of Singapore Press Holdings, whose shares fell 8.7% on the news to S$27.40. 

 In LONDON, the FTSE 100 Index lost 38.1 points, or 0.6%, to 5869.2. British Energy lost 17.5 pence, or 4.3%, at 385.5 pence. The utility released news that it has bought two power plants in the U.S. But shares of Kingfisher, buoyed by a positive report on prospects for the United Kingdom home-improvement sector, rose 19.5 pence, or 3.3%, to 607 pence. 

 In FRANKFURT, the Xetra DAX Index ended 0.5% lower, a 27.95-point decline, at 5156.28. HypoVereinsbank rose 2% to 57.50 euros, boosted by a Financial Times report that the bank is moving close to a merger with Dresdner Bank. Spokesmen at both banks declined to comment. DaimlerChrysler shares ended 2.4% lower at 66.75 euros after the auto maker denied a news report that it might take a stake in either Peugeot Citroen or Fiat. 

 In PARIS, the CAC 40 Index ended down 29.12 points, or 0.6%, at 4495.30. Peugeot, which said only that it has held talks about technical cooperation with DaimlerChrysler, rose 2.1% to 177.80 euros. Renault closed down 1.8%, or 90 cents, at 49.90 euros despite the restructuring news from Nissan, which is 37%-owned by the French auto maker. 


---
                    Morgan Stanley Indexes
                                            % FROM
               Oct. 15         Oct. 14     12/31/98
U.S........... 1211.1           1247.2         +1.2
Britain....... 1726.3           1764.5         -0.9
Canada........  848.2            858.5        +13.7
Japan.........  912.6            927.0        +31.2
France........ 1433.4           1455.4        +14.6
Germany.......  686.1            691.9         +4.0
Hong Kong..... 6947.2           7043.7        +16.9
Switzerland...  858.1            878.1         -3.7
Australia.....  566.7            575.4         -0.9
World Index... 1203.5           1226.2         +4.7
EAFE MSCI-p... 1513.9           1525.9         +7.7
  As calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International Perspective,
Geneva. Each index, calculated in local currencies, is based on the
close of 1969 equaling 100.


Document j000000020010828dvaj00t3k




Inside Banking * Cliff Glickman
BUSINESS
BANK ONE TRIGGERS PLASTIC MELTDOWN

By CLIFF GLICKMAN, Staff Writer   
501 words
17 October 1999
Charlotte Observer (NC)
CLTO
ONE-THREE
5D
English
Copyright 1999 The Charlotte Observer. All rights reserved.   

Stocks of credit card issuers have been the dregs of the banking industry the past two months. That's saying something, since the stars haven't been doing all that well.

Blame Bank One, which in late August said credit card pricing pressures would keep it from meeting its third-quarter numbers. Investors, showing their usual patience and discrimination, sliced 25 percent of Bank One's market value within hours and sold off everything that even felt like plastic.

CBS MarketWatch wonders whether two of the more conservative players, MBNA and Capital One, have been punished too harshly.

Wilmington, Del.-based MBNA targets middle- to upper-middle-income households, which typically hold average balances that are 44 percent higher than industry averages and have delinquencies that are 33 percent lower.

From Aug. 24, the day before the Bank One profit warning, to Oct. 1, MBNA stock (KRB) sank 26 percent, to $22.371/2. It recovered more than half of the losses by Oct. 8, reaching $25.621/2, but was back in the $22 range this week.

Capital One (COF) went on a similar ride. The Falls Church, Va., issuer had the lowest second-quarter charge-off rate, or percentage of debt written off from delinquencies, among the top 10 credit-card issuers. Capital One's stock was at $46.683/4 on Aug. 24, hit $36.811/4 a week later, then rose to break-even Oct. 8. But it slipped below $40 again last week.

What's going on? Interest rate concerns eased for a fleeting moment in early October, which might have sparked, then snuffed the rally.

FINANCIAL SERVICES Internet stocks have had a similarly uneven performance this year. That, plus a rapidly changing landscape for Internet banking, prompted Fleet to rethink its plans to spin off its Suretrade online brokerage.

"It has become evident there needs to be more integration between Internet banking and brokerage" Fleet Bank spokesman Charles Salmans said.

Suretrade, started in 1997, charges a rock-bottom $7.95 a trade. Its 350,000 customers have about $1.7 billion in assets.

BANK ONE celebrated the Oct. 2 first anniversary of its merger with First Chicago by giving its 90,000 employees an extra paid day of vacation in 2000.

IN AN article about how companies aren't doing much direct advertising to lesbians, compared with gay men, The Wall Street Journal points out a couple of exceptions in financial services: American Express and Fleet Boston. A recent Fleet ad showing female partners said, "The only aspect of your lifestyle that we're concerned about is improving it."

James Law, a district manager for American Express Financial Advisors, told the Journal that gay women are among his best customers. "They settle down and are more mature about managing their money," he says. "I have gay male customers making over $200,000 a year who have trouble saving anything."

GEORGIA

Document CLTO000020090629dvah02jwk


 Most Added. 

4,356 words
16 October 1999
Music & Media
MUMD
18
Volume 16; Issue 42
English
Copyright 1999 Gale Group Inc. All rights reserved.

 Most added 


week 42 / 99



Tina Turner            When The Heartache Is Over
                                        (EMI) 20
Backstreet Boys                 Larger Than Life
                                        (Jive) 9
Macy Gray                                  I Try
                                        (Epic) 9
Britney Spears                You Drive Me Crazy
                                        (Jive) 7
Pet Shop Boys                  New York City Boy
                                  (Parlophone) 7
Tal Bachman                        She's So High
                                    (Columbia) 6
Chemical Brothers                 Out Of Control
                                      (Virgin) 6
Jennifer Lopez               Waiting For Tonight
                                    (Columbia) 6
Semisonic                           Closing Time
                                         (MCA) 6



Most Added are those songs which received the highest number of playlist
additions during the week. In the case of a tie, songs are listed
alphabetically by artist.



Station Reports include all new additions to the playlist, Some
reports will dso include "Power Play" songs, which receive special
emphasis during the week. All Power Play songs are printed, whether they
are reported for the first time or not. Some lists include featured new
albums, as indicated by the abbreviation "AL." Within each country,
stations are grouped by ranking and listed alphabetically, Rankings
include: platinum (P), Gold (G), Silver (S) and Bronze (B). All
playlists must be received by Monday at 13.00 h. CET.



GERMANY
ANTENNE BAYERN/Munich P
CHR
Stepben Offierowski- Programme Director
Playlist Additions:
  Mike & The Mechanics- Whenever I Stop
  Eurithmics- I Saved The World Today
  Joe Cocker- Different Roads
HR: 3/Frankfurt P
CHR
Hans-Jorg Bombach - Programme Director
Playlist Additions:
  Lene Marlin- Sitting Down Here
  Boney M- Daddy Cool '99
  Mariah Carey- Heartbreaker
  Lou Bega- I Got A Girl
  Pet Shop Boys- New York City Boy
  C. Wunderlich & H- Forever Tonight
  Aquagen- Ihr Seid So Leise
NDR 2/Hamburg P
AC
Jorg Bollmann- Programme Director
Playlist Additions:
  Tal Bachman- She's So High
  702- Where My Girls At
  Freundeskreis- Mit Dir
  Five- If Ya Gettin' Down
  Die Fantastischen 4- Buenos Dias Messias
  T-One- Somewhere Out There
  Earth, Wind & Fire- September '99
  Britney Spears- You Drive Me Crazy
  Bloodhound Gang- The Bad Touch
  Eric Clapton- Blue Eyes Blue
RADIO NRW/Oberhausen P
AC
Carsten Hoyer - Head Of Music
Playlist Additions:
  Shania Twain- Man! I Feel Like A Woman
  Cher- Dov'E' L'Amore
  Echt- Du Tragst Keine Liebe In Dir
  Robbie Williams- She's The One
  Phil Collins- Strangers Like Me
  Ghetto People- Those Were The Days
  Roy Horton- I Cry
  In 2 Deep- If You Leave Me Now
RADIO RPR 1/Ludwigshafen P
CHR
Playlist Additions:
  Simon Collins- Pride
  DJ Bobo- Together
  Eurythmics- I Saved The World Today
  In Mood Feat. Juliette- Live Your Life
  Pet Shop Boys- New York City Boy
SWR 3/Baden-Baden/Stuttgart P
CHR
Gerold Hug - Programme Director
Playlist Additions:
  Groove Armada- At The River
  Travis- Why Does It Always Rain On Me
  Sting- Brand New Day
  Pet Shop Boys- New York City Boy
  Live- The Dolphin's Cry
  Captain Jack- Only You
ANTENNE BRANDENBURG/
Potsdam G
CHR
Pia Stein - MD
Playlist Additions:
  Cranberries- Just My Imagination
  Lutricia McNeal- 365 Days
  Backstreet Boys- Larger Than Life
  Chris De Burgh- When I Think Of You
  Pet Shop Boys- New York City Boy
DELTA RADIO/Kiel G
Pop/Rock
Adam Hahne - Prog Dir
Playlist Additions:
  Travis- Why Does It Always Ram On Me
  Supergrass- Moving
  Caroline's Spine- Nothing To Prove
HUNDERT 6/Berlin G
AC
Rainer Gruhn - Music Dir
Playlist Additions:
  Van Morrison- Sometimes We Cry
  Diana Ross- Not Over Yet
  Gary Barlow- For All That You Want
  Robbie Williams- She's The One
  Heinz Rudolf Kunze- Nonstop
RADIO FFN/Hannover G
CHR
Rainer M. Cabanis - Prog Dir
Playlist Additions:
  Paula Cole Band- I Believe In Love
  Moby- Why Does My Heart Feel So Bad
  Anika Paris- It's About
RADIO RPR 2/Ludwigshafen G
National Music
Playlist Additions:
  Martin Mann- Ich Bin Bereit
  Tommay Steiner- Ich Bin Da
  Mireille Mathieu- Wie Soll Ich Leben
  Martin Engel- Dins Feuer In Mir
  Hoi!- Koa Weg Ohne Ende
JAM FM/Berlin S
Urban
Frank Nordmann - Programme Director
Power Rotation:
  L.L. Cool J- Say What
Playlist Additions:
  Tracie Spencer- It's All About You
  Amyth- 1, 2, 3
  Jay-Z- Girl's Best Friend
  Destiny's Child- Bug-A-Boo
  702- You Don't Know
  Chico DeBarge- Give You What You Want
UNITED KINGDOM
96.4FM.BRMB/Birmingham P
CHR
Paul Jackson - Programme Controller
Playlist Additions:
  Texas- When We Are Together
  Kojak- You Can't Stop It
  Macy Gray- I Try
  Gabrielle- Sunshine
  Adam Rickett- Everything My Heart Desires
  Robbie Williams- It's Only Us
METRO FM/Newcastle P
CHR
Senn Marley - Programme Controller
Playlist Additions:
  Semisonic- Closing Time
  Backstreet Boys- Larger Than Life
  Eternal- What'cha Gonna Do
CHOICE FM/London G
Urban
Ivor Etienne - Programme Controller
Playlist Additions:
  Flame & Phoebe 1- Can U Feel This
  Phajja- Checkin' For Me
  TJ Cases- Joy
  Busta Rhymes- Do It Now
CLYDE 1 FM/Glasgow G
CHR
Ross Macfadgen - Head Of Music
Playlist Additions:
  Shania Twain- Man! I Feel Like A Woman
  Gary Barlow- For All That You Want
  R. Kelly- If I Could Turn Back
  Steps- After The Love Has Gone
  Tina Turner- When The Heartache
  Another Level- Flying Without Wings
  Adam Rickett- Everything My Heart
  Five- Keep On Movin'
  Michael Hutchence- A Straight Line
COOL FM/Belfast G
CHR
John Paul Ballantine - Head Of Music
Playlist Additions:
  Westlife- Flying Without Wings
DOWNTOWN RADIO/Belfast G
Full Service
John Rosborough - Prog Dir
Playlist Additions:
  Eiffel 65- Blue
  Roxette- Stars
  Christina Aguilera- Genie In A Bottle
  Bob Marley- Sun Is Shining
  Supergrass- Moving
  Simply Red- Ain't That A Lot Of Love
  Gabrielle- Sunshine
  B. Kennedy/R. Keating- These Days
FORTH FM/Edinburgh G
CHR
Tom Wilson - Music Co-ordinator
Playlist Additions:
  Tal Bachman- She's So High
  Semisonic- Closing Time
  Madison Avenue- Don't Call Me Baby
  Vitamin C- Smile
  Backstreet Boys- Larger Than Life
  Merz- Lovely Daughter
  Point Break- Do We Rock
  Melanie C.- Goin' Down
  Honeyz- Never Let You Down
  The Charlatans- Forever
  Gabrielle- Sunshine
  S Club 7- S Club Party
  Faithless- Why Go
  Chemical Brothers- Out Of Control
  Bernard Butler- You Must Go On
  Onephatdeeva- In And Out Of My Life
  Space Brothers- Heaven Will Come
  Adam Rickett- Everything My Heart Desires
  Skunk Anansie- You'll Follow Me Down
HALLAM FM/Sheffield G
CHR
Tony McKenzie - Programme Director
Playlist Additions:
  Semisonic- Closing Time
  Macy Gray- I Try
  911- Wonderland
  Onephatdeeva- In And Out Of My Life
ESSEX FM/Southend-On-Sea S
CHR
Paul Chantler - Prog Dir
Playlist Additions:
  ATB- Don't Stop
  Macy Gray- I Try
  911- Wonderland
  Steps- After The Love Has Gone
  Tina Turner- When The Heartache
ORCHARD FM/Taunton B
CHR
Bob McCreadie- Programme Controller
Playlist Additions:
  Ann Lee- 2 Times
  Semisonic- Closing Time
  Phil Collins- You'll Be In My Heart
  Macy Gray- I Try
  S Club 7- S Club Party
  Valerie Etienne- Misunderstanding
  Tins Turner- When The Heartache
  Adam Rickett- Everything My Heart
XFM 104.9/London B
Alternative
Amanda Law - Music Editor
Playlist Additions:
  Apollo 440- Heart Go Boom
  Suede- Can't Get Enough
  Beck- Sexxlaws
  Day One- I'm Doin' Fine
  Ocean Colour Scene- So Low
FRANCE
EUROPE 2 NETWORK/Paris P
AC
Nicolas du Roy - Music Dir
Playlist Additions:
  Enrique Iglesias- Bailamos
  Teri Moise- Encore Fou
  Rudeluck- Revolution
FRANCE INTER/Paris P
Full Service
Bernard Chereze - Music Dir
Playlist Additions:
  Jamiroquul- King For A Day
  Miossec- L'Assistant Parlementaire
  Patricia Kaas- Une Fille De L'Est
  Amina- C'Est Gal
  Barbara Gosza- Pilot's Song Vol. II
NRJ NETWORK/Paris P
CHR
Max Guazzini - Dir
Playlist Additions:
  DJ Jurgen- Better Off Alone
  Mylene Farmer- Sauviens Toi Du Jour
  Tina Turner- When The Heartache
  Ophelle Winter- Je T'Abandonne
RTL/Paris P
Full Service
Main Tibolla - Head Of Prog
Playlist Additions:
  Cranberries- Just My Imagination
  Tins Turner- When The Heartache
  David Hullyday- Pour Toi
  Archive- The Pains Get Worse
  Thomas Fersen- Irene
VIBRATION/Orleans G
CHR
Maxime Caubel - Prog Coord
Playlist Additions:
  Moloko- Sing It Back
  Andreas Johnson- Glorious
  Omar Chakil- Victimes Du Temps
  Britney Spears- You Drive Me Crazy
  Pit Baccardi- Si Loin De Toi
  David Hallyday- Pour Toi
WIT FM/Bordeaux G
CHR
Gerard Babu - Programme Director
Playlist Additions:
  Ronan Keating- When You Say Nothing
  Cher- Dov'E' L'Amore
  Lutricia McNeal- 365 Days
  Mariah Carey- Heartbreaker
  Patrick Bruel- J'Te Mentirais
OUI FM/Paris S
Alternative
Michael Gentile - GM/Programme Director
Power Rotation:
  Suede- Everything Will Flow
  Smash Mouth- All Star
  Muse- Uno
  Ben Harper- Please Bleed
Power Rotation Add:
  David Bowie Thursday's Child
Playlist Additions:
  Tal Bachman- She's So High
  Bernard Butler- You Must Go On
  Foo Fighters- Learn To Fly
  Miossec- L'Assistant Parlementaire
ITALY
LOS CUARENTA/Bologna P
CHR
Michele Menegon - Prog Dir
Playlist Additions:
  Topazz- New Millennium
  Axis- Love In December
  Gays- I Keep On Dreaming
  Simone Jay- Paradise
RADIO DEEJAY NETWORK/Milan P
CHR
Dario Usuelli - Head Of Music
Playlist Additions:
  Moltosugo- Activate
  Mabel- Disco Disco
RADIO BABBOLEO/Genoa G
CHR
Lenny Rottone - DJ/Prog Dir
Playlist Additions:
  Rappers Against Racism- Key To Your
  Cranberries- Just My Imagination
  Stereophoulcs- I Wouldn't Believe
  Renato Zero- Il Coraggio Delle Idee
  Britney Spears- You Drive Me Crazy
  Skunk Anansie- You'll Follow Me Down
SPAIN
CADENA 100/Madrid P
CHR
Jordi Casoliva - Director Of Programming
Power Rotation:
  Sting- Brand New Day
Playlist Additions:
  Elvis Costello- Oliver's Army
  Sugar Roy- Abracadabra
  Pet Shop Boys- New York City Bey
  Rebeldes- El Club De Los Vagos
CADENA DIAL/Madrid P
National Music
Paco Herrera - Prog Dir/Musin Programmer
Playlist Additions:
  Las Chamorro- Te Echo De Menos
  Nell. Lo Y La Bands Del Z- Pura Vida
  Jarabe De Palo- Duerme Conmigo
  Consuelo- Si No Te Quiero
  Edu- No Puedo Cambiar
  Presuntos Implicados- Nadie Como Tu
  Monica Molina- Tu Despedida
  Jorge Drexlec- Frontera
  So Pra Contrariar- Fuera Ropa
  Ella Baila Sola- Que Sa Me Va De
  Hermanas Ferrin- Caserita Vendo Agua
  A. Belen/M. Rios- La Luna De Alabama
  Azul- Carts Sin Destino II
  Hevia- Sobrepena
M-80/Madrid G
CHR
Sandro D'Angeli - Director
Playlist Additions:
  Tal Bachman- She's So High
  Culture Club- Your Kisses Are Charity
  Santana- Supernatural
  Lutricia McNeal- 365 Days
  Mariah Carey- Heartbreaker
  Pet Shop Boys- New York City Boy
  Barry White- Which Way Is Up
  Jarabe De Palo- Duerme Conmigo
  Pedro Guerra- Rebes Del Rio
PORTUGAL
ANTENA 3/Lisbon P
CHR
Jose Marinho - Head Of Music
Playlist Additions:
  Presence- Sense Of Danger
  Lene Marlin- Sitting Down Here
  Beth Orton- Central Reservation
  Ocean Colour Scene- Profit In Peace
  Marc Anthony- I Need To Know
  Kid Rock- Cowboy
  B*witched- Jesse Hold On
  Jennifer Lopez- Waiting For Tonight
  Smash Mouth- Then The Morning
  Limp Bizkit- Rearranged
  Letters To Cleo- Cruel To Be Kind
HOLLAND
NPS KORT EN KLIJN/Hilversum P
CHR
Tom Blomberg - DJ/Producer
Playlist Additions:
  Lit- My Own Worst Enemy
  The 3 Jays- Feeling It Too
  Jamiroquai- Supersonic
  Backstreet Boys- Larger Than Life
  Anouk- Are You Kidding Me?
  Destiny's Child- Bug-A-Boo
RADIO 2/Hilversum P
AC
Ron Stoeltie
Playlist Additions:
Piccola Orch. Avion Travel- Dormi E. Sogna
  Ruth Jacott- Vals Verlangen
  Sixpence N T R- There She Goes
  David Bowie- Thursday's Child
  Tina Turner- When The Heartache
RADIO 538/Hilversum P
CHR
Erik de Zwart - Managing Director
Power Rotation Add:
  Anouk- Are You Kidding Me?
  DJ Stephen- Infinity
Playlist Additions:
  Thunderbugs- Fnends Forever
  Tina Turner- When The Heartache
  Matt Darey- Liberation
  Volumia!- Blijf Bij Mij
  Airscape- L'Esperanza
  The Sunclub- Splash
SKY RADIO 100.7FM/Bussum P
CHR
Vranz van Maaren-PD, Frans van
Dun-Music Dir
Power Rotation:
  Enrique Iglesias- Bailamos
  Ronan Keating- When You Say Nothing
  Shania Twain- Man! I Feel Like
  City To City- The Road Ahead
Playlist Additions:
  Christina Aguilera- Genie In A Bottle
  Eurythmics- I Saved The World
  Martina McBride- I Love You
  'N Syne/G. Estefan- Music Of My Heart
  Tina Turner- When The Heartache
  98 Degrees- I Do Cherish You
KINK FM/Hilversum B
Alternative
Jan Hoogesteijn - Station Manager
Power Rotation Add:
  Leftfield- Afrika Shox
Playlist Additions:
  Chemical Brothers- Out Of Control
  Luke Sister- All Exhale
  Foo Fighters- Loam To Fly
  Wyclef Jean feat, Bono- New Day
  Skunk Anansie- You'll Follow Me Down
  Chris Rock- No Sex
  Baby Namboos- Ancoats & Zambia
BELGIUM
RADIO 21/Brussels P
Alternative
Christine Goor - Head Of Music
Power Rotation:
  Technique- You + Me
Playlist Additions:
  Matmatah- Lambe An Dro
  Travis- Why Does It Always
  Zebra- Y'A Pas D'Arrangement
  Sixpence N T R- There She Goes
  Clinton Buttoned Down Disco
  All Seeing I- 1st Man In Space
  Brassy- I Can't Wait
  Connie Williams- A World Celebration
  Ben Harper- Burn To Shine
  Faze Action- Got To Find A Way
VRT RADIO DONNA/Brussels P
CHR
Jan van Hoorickx - Head Of Music
Power Rotation Add:
  Simply Red- Ain't That A Lot Of Love
Playlist Additions:
  702- Where My Girls At
  Martay- Gimme All Your Lovin'
  Jennifer Lopez- Waiting For Tonight
  Volumia!- Blijf Bij Mij
  Axelle Red- Bimbo A Moi
  Get Ready- Silent Like The Rain
VRT STUDIO BRUSSEL/Brussels P
Alternative
Jan Hautekiet - Producer
Playlist Additions:
  Beth Orton- Central Reservation
  Silverchair- Ana's Song
  Paul Johnson- Get Get Down
  Andreas Johnson- Glorious
  Blink 182- What's My Age Again?
  Violator- Vivrant Thing
  Tricky- For Real
  All Seeing I- 1st Man In Space
  Praga Khan- Breakfast In Vegas
  Chemical Brothers- Out Of Control
  Junkie XL- Zerotonine
  Wyclef Jean feat. Bono- New Day
  Arid- Life
SWITZERLAND
COULEUR 3/Lausanne G
Alternative
Thierry Catherine - Head Of Music
Power Rotation Add:
  Space Jazz Dub Men- Don't Mean
Playlist Additions:
  Ol' Dirty Bastard- Got Our Money
  Pit Baccardi- Si J'Etais
  Chemical Brothers- Out Of Control
DRS 3/Zurich G
CHR
Christoph Alispach - Music Co-Ord
Playlist Additions:
  Marc Anthony- I Need To Know
  Tina Turner- When The Heartache
  Betty Legler Humanaut
RADIO 24/Zurich G
AC
Dani Richiger - Head Of Music
Power Rotation:
  TLC- Unpretty
  Christina Aguilera- Genie In A Bottle
  Lutricia McNeal- 365 Days
Playlist Additions:
  Jennifer Brown- Two In The Morning
  T. Jones/Cardigans- Burning Down
  Chris De Burgh- When I Think
  Macy Gray- I Try
  Candy Dulfer- What Does It Take
RADIO BASILISK/Basel G
AC
Nick Schulz - Head Of Music
Playlist Additions:
  Melissa Etheridge- Angels Would Fall
  De-Phazz- The Mambo Craze
  Britney Spears- You Drive Me Crazy
  Chris De Burgh- When I Think
  Joe Cocker- Different Roads
  Savage Garden- I Knew I Loved You
  Ties Turner- When The Heartache
RADIO LAC/Geneva S
CHR
Jacky Sanders - Prog Dir
Playlist Additions:
  Sugar Ray- Someday
  B*witched- Jesse Hold On
  R. Kelly- If I Could Turn Back
  Prince- The Greatest Romance Ever Sold
AUSTRIA
O 3/Vienna P
CHR
Alfred Rosenauer - Head Of Music
Playlist Additions:
  Sixpence N T R- There She Goes
  Phil Collins- Strangers Like Me
  Bryan Adams- Best Of Me
  Two In One- Hollywood '99
SWEDEN
SR P3/Stockholm P
CHR
Mats Grimberg - Producer
Playlist Additions:
  Travis- Why Does It Always Rain
  Shaft- Mucho Mambo
  Bob Marley- Sun Is Shining
  Backstreet Boys- Larger Than Life
  Destiny's Child- Bug-A-Boo
  Tina Turner- When The Heartache
  Sophie Zelmani- Time To Kill
RIX FM/Stockholm G
CHR
Anders Svensson - Head Of Music
Playlist Additions:
  Tal Bachman- She's So High
  Ricky Martin- She's All I Ever Had
HIT FM 94.2/Bromma S
Dance
Jocke Bring - Prog Dir
Playlist Additions:
  Buzzy Bus- You Don't Stop
  Prince- The Greatest Romance Ever Sold
  Madkatt Courtship- My Life Muzik
  QBN Flow- Mangas Verklighet
  Jungle Brothers- Get Down
POWER 106/Stockholm S
CHR
Niklas Erring - Prog & Head Of Music
Power Rotation Add:
  Melanie C.- Northern Star
Playlist Additions:
  Barcode Brothers- Dooh Dooh
  Struggle Brothers- Bounce Baby Bounce
  Chemical Brothers- Out Of Control
  Laila Adele- I Want You
  Earthbound- One Nation
  Excel- You Move Me
  Oktan- 2000 Grader
DENMARK
THE VOICE/Copenhagen P
CHR
Eik Frederiksen - Prog Dir
Power Rotation Add:
  Prince- The Greatest Romance Ever Sold
Playlist Additions:
  Lene Marlin- Where I'm Headed
  98 Degrees- I Do (Cherish You)
  Gabrielle- Sunshine
  Kid Rock- Cowboy
  Sunclub- Splash
  Watergate- Heart Of Asia
  Melanie C.- Northern Star
  Ann Lee- Voices
  Me & My- Every Single Day
  Hampenberg- Grab That Thing
  Bachelor Girl- Blown Away
  Daze- 15 Minutes Of Fame
RADIO ABC/Randers G
CHR
Morten Bach - Programme Director
Power Rotation Add:
  Ann Lee- Voices
Playlist Additions:
  Klippers- Step Into The Rhythm
  Me & My- Every Single Day
NORWAY
RADIO 1 NETWORK/Oslo G
CHR
Christian Jebsen - Music Director
Playlist Additions:
  Andreas Johnson- Glorious
  Eclipse- Makes Me Love You
  Britney Spears- You Drive Me Crazy
RADIO 102/Haugesund G
Hot AC
Egil Houeland - Head Of Music
Playlist Additions:
  Beth Hart- L.A. Song
  Tina Turner- When The Heartache
  D' Sound- Enjoy
  Jan Eggum- Pa TV
FINLAND
FINNISH AIRPLAY TOP 40/
Tampere P
CHR
Pentti Teravainen - Director
Playlist Additions:
  Beth Hart- L.A. Song
  Paula Cole Band- I Believe In Love
  Gary Barlow- For All That You Want
  Savage Garden- I Knew I Loved You
  Jari Sillanpaa- Onnenetsija
  Petri Salminen- Tanssi Tuhansin
  Susanna Heikki- Kulkurin Korvarengas
YLE 2/RADIOMAFIA/Helsinki P
CHR
Ville Vilen - Head Of Music
Playlist Additions:
  Tina Turner- When The Heartache
  Foo Fighters- Learn To Fly
  Wyclef Jean feat. Bono- New Day
  Zen Cafe- Mies Eika Poika Enaa
  D. Hannot & Apulanta- Paakallokiitaja
RUSSIA
RADIO EUROPA PLUS NETWORK/
Moscow P
CHR
Francois Deymeier - Programme Director
Playlist Additions:
Culture Club- Your Kisses Are Charity
  Masterboy- Porque Te Vas
  Spleen- Pil-Kuril
RADIO MAXIMUM/
Moscow/St. Petersburg P
CHR
Mikhail Eidelman - Programmme Director
Playlist Additions:
  Sting- Brand New Day
  Joe Cocker- Different Roads
  Megapolis- Vsyo Ne Konchitsya
MUSIC RADIO/Perm S
CHR
Alexey Glazatov - General Director
Playlist Additions:
  Mylene Farmer- Je Te Rends
  Kristina Orbakaite- Bospriyutnaya Dusha
  Marina Khlebnikova- Moi General
POLAND
RADIO 4 U: DANCE/
Warsaw G
Dance
Bogdan Fabianski - DJ/Prod.
Playlist Additions:
  Red Venom- Get It On
  Blue Nature- Return To Paradise
  Simon Collins- Pride
  Q Connection- Bei Mir Bist
  Echobeatz- Africa 2000
  Ivan G.- Musica Del Futuro
RADIO GDANSK/Gdansk G
CHR
Marek Cegielski - Head Of Music
Power Rotation Add:
  Tina Turner- When The Heartache
Playlist Additions:
  Rob Marley- Sun Is Shining
  Youngstown- I'll Be Your Everything
  Live- The Dolphin's Cry
  Chili My- Powiedz, Powiedz Jak To Jest
  E-Rotic- Mambo No. Sex
  Gabriel Fleszar- Niespokojny
  Hey- Mamjakty
  Myslovitz- Deugosc Dzwieku
CZECH REPUBLIC
EVROPA 2/Prague G
CHR
Roman Ondracek - Head Of Music
Playlist Additions:
  Jennifer Paige- Always You
  Tal Bachman- She's So High
  Lene Marlin- Sitting Down Here
  Abba Teens- Mamma Mia
  Smash Mouth- All Star
  Five- If Ya Gettin' Down
  Backstreet Boys- Larger Than Life
  M. Brooks & Q. Latifah- Lay Down
  Eurythmics- I Saved The World
  Yazoo- Only You '99
  Joe Cocker- Different Roads
  Bell Book & Candle- Fire And Run
RADIO IMPULS/Prague G
CHR
Jan Hanousek - Head Of Music
Playlist Additions:
  Gary Barlow- Stronger
  Milan Daim- Cerna A Bila
GREECE
KISS 909 FM/Athens G
CHR
Michael Tsaoussopoulos - Prog Dir
Power Rotation:
  TLC- Unpretty
TURKEY
RADIO NUMBER ONE FM/
Istanbul P
CHR
Emre Yonter - Music &
Programme Director
Playlist Additions:
  Ann Lee- 2 Times
  Lou Begs- I Get A Girl
  Marc Anthony- I Need To Know
  Jennifer Lopez- Waiting For Tonight
LITHUANIA
RADIO M-1/Vilnius G
CHR
Asta Gujyte - Prog Dir
Power Rotation Add:
  Paul Johnson- Get Get Down
Playlist Additions:
  Valerie Etienne- Misunderstanding
  Robbie Williams- She's The One
  Chemical Brothers- Out Of Control
  Lucid- Stay With Me Till Dawn
  Moby- Why Does My Heart Feel So Bad
  Wyclef Jean feat. Bono- New Day
PROGRAMME
SUPPLIERS
FM RADIO NETWORK/Germany G
CHR
Attain Weis - Prog Dir
Power Rotation Add:
  Manau- La Tribu De Dana
  Cunnie Williams- A World Celebration
Playlist Additions:
  Britney Spears- You Drive Me Crazy
  Bloodhound Gang- The Bad Touch
  Tina Turner- When The Heartache
MUSIC TELEVISION
MCM/Paris P
Herve Lemaire - Prog Dir
Heavy Rotation:
  Zebda- Tomber La Chemise
  Whitney Houston- My Love Is
  Moloko- Sing It Back
  Sixpence N T R- Kiss Me
  Liquido- Narcotic
  Alliance Ethnik- No Limits
  Jennifer Lopez If You Had My Love
  The Offspring- The Kids Aren't
  M. Elliott/MC Solaar- All 'N My Grill
  TLC- Unpretty
  Jamiroquai- Supersonic
  Texas- Summer Son
  N. Cook/Fatboy Slim- Psyche Rock
  Pierpoljak- Je Sais Pas Jouer
  Big Red- Red-eruption
  Celine Dion- Dans Un Autre Monde
MTV/Central Feed P
Andreas Heineke - Head Of Music
Heavy Rotation:
  Ronan Keating- When You Say
  M. Elliott/MC Solaar- All 'N My Grill
  TLC- Unpretty
  Texas- Summer Son
  Christina Aguilera- Genie In A Bottle
  Britney Spears- You Drive Me Crazy
  DJ Tomekk- Rhymes Galore
New Videos:
  Chris Cornell- Can't Change Me
  Puff Daddy- Satisfy You
  Jay-Z- Girl's Best Friend
  Readymade- Supernatural
  Les Rythmes D.- Jaques Your Body
MTV/European Feed P
Hans Hagman - Head Of Music
Heavy Rotation:
  Enrique Iglesias- Bailamos
  Lauryn Hill- Everything Is Everything
  702- Where My Girls At
  TLC- Unpretty
  Phats & Small- Feel Good
  Christina Aguilera- Genie In A Bottle
New Videos:
  Lou Bega- I Got A Girl
  Pet Shop Boys- New York City Boy
  R. Kelly- If I Could Turn Back
  Destiny's Child- Bug-A-Boo
  Foo Fighters- Learn To Fly
  Skunk Anansie- You'll Follow Me Down
  Nine Inch Nails- We're In This
MTV/Nordic Feed P
Hans Hagman - Head Of Music
Heavy Rotation:
  Lauryn Bill- Everything Is Everything
  Ronan Keating- When You Say
  The Offspring- The Kids Aren't
  Andreas Johnson- Glorious
  TLC- Unpretty
  Christina Aguilera- Genie In A Bottle
  T. Jones/The Cardigans- Burning Down
New Videos:
  Lou Bega- I Got A Girl
  Anouk- Are You Kidding Me?
  Destiny's Child- Bug-A-Boo
  Skunk Anansie- You'll Follow Me Down
  Nine Inch Nails- We're In This
MTV/Southern Feed P
Clive Evan- Head Of Music
Heavy Rotation:
  Lene Marlin- Sitting Down Here
  Jarabe De Palo- La Flaca
  Christina Aguilera- Genie In A Bottle
  Ricky Martin- She's All I Ever Had
  Backstreet Boys- Larger Than Life
  Ligabue- Una Vita Da Mediano
  Jovanotti- Un Raggio Di Sole
New Videos:
  Blondie- No Exit
  Lit- Zip Lock
  Jennifer Lopez- Waiting For Tonight
  Creed- Higher
  Destiny's Child- Bug-A-Boo
  Foo Fighters- Learn To Fly
  Skunk Anansie- You'll Follow Me Down
  Stereolab- The Free Design
  Nine Inch Nails- We're In This
  Reggae N T- Cose Che Succedono
MTV/U.K. Feed P
Power Rotation Add:
  The Charlatans- Forever
Heavy Rotation:
  Moloko- Sing It Back
  ATB- Don't Stop
  Lou Begs- Mambo No. 5
  Eiffel 65- Blue
  Paul Johnson- Get Get Down
  TLC- Unpretty
  Christina Aguilera- Genie In A Bottle
  Shaft- Mucho Mambo
  Bob Marley- Sun Is Shining
  Backstreet Boys- Larger Than Life
New Videos:
  Jordan Knight- Give It To You
  Savage Garden- I Knew I Loved You
  Steps- Alter The Love Has Gone
  Clash- Complete Control
  The Moffats- Misery
  Destiny's Child- Bug-A-Boo
  Apollo 440- Heart Go Boom
  Foo Fighters- Learn To Fly
  Five- Keep On Movin'
  Quannum- I Changed My Eyes
  Nine Inch Nails- We're In This
  Ben & Jason- Air Guitar
  Lightning Seeds- Life's Too Short
  Cousteau- The Last Good Day Of the Year
THE MUSIC FACTORY/
Bussum, Holland P
Erik Kross - Music Director
Power Rotation:
  Backstreet Boys- Larger Than Life
Heavy Rotation:
  Enrique Iglesias- Bailamos
  Shania Twain- Man! I Feel Like
  TLC- Unpretty
  Christina Aguilera- Genie In A Bottle
  Red Hot Chili Peppers- Around
  Mariah Carey- Heartbreaker
  Britney Spears- You Drive Me Crazy
  Bloodhound Gang- The Bad Touch
  Toy-Box- The Sailor Song
  Live- The Dolphin's Cry
VH-1/London P
Lester Mordue - Head Of Programming
Heavy Rotation:
  Lou Bega- Mambo No. 5
  Shania Twain- Man! I Feel Like
  Sting- Brand New Day
  Gabrielle- Sunshine
  Tin Tin Out/E. Bunton- What I Am
New Videos:
  Eurythmics- I Saved The World
  Simply Red- Ain't That A Lot Of Love
  Pet Shop Boys New York City Boy
  Tina Turner- When The Heartache
  Wyclef Jean feat. Bono- New Day
VIVA TV/Cologne P
Tina Busch - Prog Dir
Heavy Rotation:
  Whitney Houston- My Lave Is Your Love
  Wamdue Project- King Of My Castle
  Lou Bega- Mambo No. 5
  Enrique Iglesias- Bailamos
  Eiffel 65- Blue
  Ronan Keating- When You Say
  Freundeskreis- Mit Dir
  Texas- Summer Son
  Christina Aguilera- Genie In A Bottle
  Rollergirl- Dear Jessie
  Echt- Du Tragst Keine Liebe In Dir
  Scooter- Fasterharderscooter
  Britney Spears- You Drive Me Crazy
  Bloodhound Gang- The Bad Touch
  D.J. Tomekk ...- 1,2,3,,,Rhymes Galore
New Videos:
  Aka- Warning
  Blondie- No Exit
  Puff Daddy- Satisfy You
  Jay-Z- Girl's Best Friend
  Marc!- I Wanna Be Your Man
  Aquagen- Ihr Seid So Leise
  Die Allianz- Boys
  Fishing For C- Teenager In Love
  Lexy & K-Paul- The Greatest DJ
  Oil P.- So Bist Du
  Rebekka- Super
VIVA ZWEI TV/Cologne P
Marcel Hamacher - Programme Director
Heavy Rotation:
  Jamiroquai- Supersonic
  Apollo 440- Stop The Rack
  T. Jones/Cardigans- Burning Down
  Rammstein- Asche Zu Asche
  Red Hot Chili Peppers- Around
  Bloodhound Gang- The Bad Touch
  DM. Tomekk ...- 1,2,3,,,Rhymes Galore
New Videos:
  Blondie- No Exit
  Blink 182- What's My Age Again?
  Everything But The Girl- rive Phantoms
  The Beatles- Hey Bullgod
  Moby- Why Does My Heart
  LL Cool J- Deepest Blue
  Tocotronic- Jackpot
  Limp Bizkit- Rearranged
  Nine Inch Nails- We're In This
  Hardknock- Come In Hard
THE BOX/London G
Francis Currie - Programme Director
  New Videos:
  Jennifer Lopez- Waiting For Tonight
  Destiny's Child- Bug-A-Boo
  L. Gallagher/S. Craddock- Carnation
  Wyclef Jean feat. Bono- New Day
  David's Daughters- Dreaming Of
  Tin Tin Out/E. Bunton- What I Am
  702- You Don't Know
  Geri Halliwell- Lift Me Up
THE MUSIC FACTORY/
Flanders/Mechelen G
Len Doens - Progr Dir
Luc Vanlaer - Music Director
Power Rotation Add:
  Nerio's Dubwork- Sunshine & Happiness
New Videos:
Mythos & DJ Cosmo- Heart Of The Ocean
  ATB- Don't Stop
  2 Eivissa- I Wanna Be Your Toy
  Chris Cornell- Can't Change Me
  Nalin & Kane- Open Your Eyes
  Bloodhound Gang- The Bad Touch
  Eternal- What'cha Gonna Do
  H. Kelly- If I Could Turn Back
  Anouk- Are You Kidding Me?
  Junkie XL- Zerotonine
  Da Rick- Roll The Drums
  The Oh!- Got To Be Free
  Poco Loco Gang- Come Along
  Honey B.- Never Go Away
  Tyrome- Evolution


FULL TEXT BPI Communications, Inc. THIS IS THE FULL TEXT: COPYRIGHT 1999 BPI Communications, Inc.

Document mumd000020010828dvag000kn




 Most IMM currencies firmer in afternoon trade. 

98 words
15 October 1999
18:20
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 Oct 15 - Most IMM currency futures were firmer, with December yen just off of session highs. Greenspan's speech did not address the outlook for U.S. interest rates or the stock market. December euro was firmer, but retraced about half of its morning gains on profit taking, traders said. Most currency futures remained supported by strong inflationary data and Fed's Greenspan's Thursday warning about the risks of a fall in investor confidence. ((Chicago Derivatives Desk (312)408 -8750, chicago.derivatives.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010909dvaf01wl5




 Business; Financial Desk 
 BRIEFLY / RETAILING Office Depot's President Steps Down 

Bloomberg News
108 words
15 October 1999
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-3
English
 Copyright 1999 / The Times Mirror Company 

 Office Depot Inc. said President John Macatee resigned amid a management shake-up six weeks after the Del Ray Beach, Fla., company issued a profitwarning that sent its shares tumbling 24%. The retailer also reported third-quarter profit from operations of 19 cents, in line with reduced forecasts, as sales rose 15% to $2.58 billion. Shawn McGhee, executive vice president, was named president of the merchandising group to oversee stores, catalog and Internet sales. Office Depot said Macatee's departure was amicable and that there were no immediate plans to find a successor. 

Document latm000020010828dvaf01twi




BUSINESS
Apple profit down 15%, but stock, hopes are up COMPUTING: Holiday shipments and a possible chip-shortage remedy loom. 

JEFF BLISS 
Bloomberg News
261 words
14 October 1999
The Orange County Register
OCR
English
© 1999 Orange County Register.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.  All rights reserved.  

Apple Computer's fiscal fourth-quarter profit fell 15 percent as it failed to obtain enough processors, though the personal-computer maker predicted a strong December quarter and its shares rose. 

Profit from operations in the period ended Sept. 25 dropped to $90 million, or 51 cents a share, from net income of $106 million, or 68 cents, in the year-earlier period. Revenue fell 14 percent, to $1.34 billion from $1.56 billion. 

Apple warned last month that profit would drop because Motorola couldn't make chips fast enough for new G4 business PCs. 

Wednesday, the company said IBM will start making the G4 chips in the first half of 2000 and that it is prepared to ship most of its machines in high volume during the important holiday season. 

"They've resolved a lot of issues that limited revenue growth," said Megan Graham-Hackett, an analyst at S&P Equity Group. 

Chief Financial Officer Fred Anderson said Apple's order backlog is more than $700 million and the company is aiming for sales growth of 20 percent to 25 percent for fiscal 2000. 

Apple shares rose as high as $68.50, or 7 percent, after the release. They fell $3.66, to $64.03, in regular New York trading, part of a broad decline in computer and Internet-related shares Wednesday. 

Apple issued its profit warning after the close of trading that day.  

Document ocr0000020010828dvae0121v




 Europe Stock Focus: Raisio Losing Market's Confidence 

 By Jari Tanner 
826 words
13 October 1999
07:30
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 HELSINKI (Dow Jones)--Raisio Group Oyj's (Y.RSY) warning that profits are falling has significantly hurt shares and analysts don't see a recovery soon for the manufacturer of cholesterol-cutting Benecol spread. 

 The outlook for the Benecol product has become uncertain ahead of stiffening competition and many observers feel the company has stumbled in communicating details with the financial market, providing too little data on the company's prospects. 

 Raisio, a foodstuffs manufacturer based in the southwestern Finnish city with the same name, said Sept. 13 it expects its 1999 earnings to fall substantially below last year's because of difficulties with margarine exports and schedule changes for the U.S. launch of Benecol. The company estimated its full-year sales will drop about 7% to EUR770 million. 

 After the announcement, Raisio's restricted K class shares fell 11% to EUR8.05 and the nonvoting V class shares fell 22% to EUR7.00 in Helsinki. K shares fell further Tuesday, closing at EUR7.25, while the V share had revived to EUR7.17. 

 Hans Bostrom, analyst at Paribas in London, said Raisio should have more actively toned down overly positive analyst reports published earlier this year on the stock's potential. 

 "The company could have suggested analysts take a more conservative view, but it chose to say nothing," Bostrom said, adding that he has a sell recommendation on the stock. 

 According to the monthly statistics of the Finnish Central Securities Depositary, foreign investors reduced notably their ownership in Raisio in September. Foreign investors owned 48% of Raisio's shares at the end of September, down from 53% a month earlier and 62% at the end of 1998. 

 Sten von Hellens, a spokesman for Raisio, says the company was in a difficult position ahead of the profit warning as it had identified several equally likely business scenarios for Raisio's future. 

 Finally, "we decided to come out with a profit warning," von Hellens said, adding that Raisio was unable to interfere beforehand with individual analyst reports without risking free flow of data to all market participants. 

 Raisio's eight-month pretax profit after extraordinary items slumped to EUR11.8 million from EUR32.2 million a year earlier, while sales were down around 10% at EUR512.7 million. The Benecol division's operating profit was cut in half to EUR12.1 million from EUR23.6 million. The margarine division made an operating loss of EUR8.0 million, compared with a profit of EUR2.1 million a year earlier. 

 Benecol To Face Tougher Competition 

 Benecol spread is the crown-jewel in Raisio's product line and the main reason for foreign investors' interest in Raisio during the past four years. 

 Plant stanol ester, Benecol's key ingredient, has been shown to reduce cholesterol, a fact that made the product an immediate hit among Finns suffering from elevated cholesterol. 

 After Benecol's Finnish introduction in late 1995, Raisio set its eye on the lucrative U.S. market, where the company sees roughly 100 million potential Benecol users, but it was forced to postpone this plan several times. 

 In 1998, Raisio signed a deal with McNeil Consumer Healthcare, a unit of Johnson and Johnson (JNJ), to give the U.S. company Benecol's worldwide manufacturing and marketing rights. 

 The deal dwarfed Raisio's role as the provider of plant stanol ester for McNeil, but it contributed to Benecol finally receiving approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. 

 The FDA categorized Benecol as a conventional food product, rather than labeling it a health food. This has increased pressure on Raisio, because the British-Dutch consumer products giant, Unilever PLC (UL), has launched a similar product, called Take Control, in the country earlier this year. 

 "Being an ordinary consumer product with no possibilities to differentiate, Benecol faces a much tougher competitive environment," Paribas' Bostrom says, adding that this also makes Benecol's higher price unsustainable. 

 In Finland, Benecol costs around 100 Finnish markkaa ($1=FIM5.5734) a kilogram in Finland, roughly two and half times more than ordinary margarine. 

 Ritva Ojala, analyst at the Helsinki-based Conventum Securities, still believes in Benecol's potential and remains long-term positive on Raisio's stock. 

 "The company possesses a high knowledge level and a strong position as a raw material supplier" to Benecol, Ojala says, adding that she sees the September profit warning relating to Raisio's plunging ordinary margarine exports to Russia. 

 While Paribas's Bostrom says he was disappointed on the Benecol division's boost to Raisio's eight-month earnings, he and Coventum's Ojala agree that spinning off the unit is not necessarily the best strategy. 

 "If separated, Benecol would lose all the synergy that comes from producing ordinary margarine," Ojala says. 

 -By Jari Tanner; +358-9-612 1726;jari.tanner@dowjones.com 

 (END) DOW JONES NEWS  10-13-99 

 02:30 AM 

53029

Document dj00000020010827dvad06rcs




 SMARTMONEY.COM: Talk About A Bad Call 

 By Rebecca Thomas 
860 words
13 October 1999
05:00
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Smartmoney.com 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--A scalding profit warning and a scathing report in the Wall Street Journal sent Raytheon (RTNA) shares screaming lower Tuesday. And at least a couple of analysts -- not to mention their clients -- got scorched in the process. 

 What happened? Raytheon's name flew across newswires Tuesday morning after the Journal reported in a front-page story that the defense contractor is behind schedule or over budget on more than a dozen of its fixed-price contracts (including the Tomahawk cruise missiles) for the Pentagon. 

 Then, around 11 a.m. ET, the company issued a press release saying that it would significantly miss earnings estimates for this year and next because of revenue shortfalls and lower-than-expected margins. The culprits: pricing pressure and disappointing international programs at its Raytheon Systems, or RSC, electronics unit. 

 Raytheon's two classes of stock were halted on the news, but when they reopened, they plunged 46% to a 52-week low in a matter of 20 minutes. It now sits about 68% off its July peak. Other aerospace and defense stocks followed suit. Boeing (BA), Lockheed Martin (LMT), General Dynamics (GD) and Northrop Grumman (NOC) all headed lower in sympathy. 

 Pity all Raytheon investors, but especially those who took this morning's advice from an embarrassed pair of analysts: Salomon Smith Barney's George Shapiro and SG Cowen's Cai von Rumohr. Both were out pounding the table for the troubled defense and aerospace company shortly before the warning. 

 "(The) Wall Street Journal article is overblown," wrote Shapiro in a research note. "We continue to believe that the analysts meeting [Wednesday] will not be as bad as the market is anticipating." (That meeting has since been canceled.) "The stock appears to be assuming an "adverse-case" scenario that looks more pessimistic than warranted by disappointments to date," wrote von Rumohr. Apparently, Raytheon told von Rumohr that some of its 6,000 projects may have "issues," but that the problems were not broad-based. Neither analyst would speak to us about their morning research. 

 Raytheon had already warned in September that it would take a pretax charge of $350 million to $450 million in the third quarter because of problems at its defense-electronics and construction units. Only some of the Pentagon contracts were included in that charge. But now, the company says it will take additional charges against earnings ($638 million this year, and $30 million in fi scal 2000) related to restructuring and contract troubles at RSC and its engineers and constructors (RE&C) division. 

 While Raytheon wouldn't give details about which contracts were over cost or behind schedule, the company did say that $320 million of the charges are related to "contract performance issues on four contracts at each of RSC and RE&C." Still, Pentagon spokesman Ken Bacon called Raytheon a 'good and reliable" contractor. "I think the vast majority of its programs are on schedule and within cost," he said. Let's hope so. 

 But investors and analysts felt betrayed by the onslaught of bad news. "The new information far exceeds in severity the information given when the company preannounced just last month," said Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette analyst Joseph Nadol. Echoed ING Barings analyst Sam Pearlstein: "While we continue to believe Raytheon has great franchises and should benefit from the rising defense spending, we do not believe investors will award the company with a premium multiple, nor continue to wait for the cash flow to materialize." Pearlstein downgraded the shares to Hold from Strong Buy. 

 Meanwhile, Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown cut its rating to Market Perform from Buy. 

 Raytheon now forecasts 1999 earnings, excluding charges, will come in at $2.70 to $2.80 a share -- a far cry from the First Call consensus estimate of $3.56 a share. Revenue, meantime, will fall short of expectations by $600 million. And for fiscal 2000, Raytheon is now forecasting $2.10 to $2.25 a share, much lower than the $3.91 consensus. The company said it expects revenue for 1999 and 2000 to grow by about 3%, instead of its earlier estimate of 6% to 8% growth. 

 The extent of the problems even humbled Raytheon. "This is very disappointing news,"' said CEO Daniel P. Burnham in a statement. "We are frustrated with this performance, but I can assure you we have dug deeply to understand the issues and are dealing with the problems." The company obviously underestimated the strain of its rapid consolidation. Since the end of the Cold War, the company has purchased the defense-electronics businesses of General Motors' (GM) Hughes Electronics and Texas Instruments (TXN). 

 "In retrospect, we tried to do too much too fast -- given the size of the task, our state of readiness and the depth and maturity of the management team," Burnham said. Too bad he didn't tell us -- or Shapiro and von Rumohr earlier. 

 For more information and analysis of companies and mutual funds, visit SmartMoney.com at http://www.smartmoney.com/

 (END) DOW JONES NEWS  10-13-99 

 12:00 AM 

Document dj00000020010827dvad06r6f


SCHOOL BRIEF: Warning issued on candy sales "

167 words
13 October 1999
Kitsap Sun
KITSAP
N08
English
Copyright 1999 Scripps Howard Publishing, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

Schools have recently received a warning from the state Attorney General's Office concerning lawsuits filed against several candy peddlers for violating state child labor laws and hiring children to sell candy for a profit.

These sales are not to be confused with local community and school groups.

If you suspect you may not be dealing with a legitimate fund-raising group, the warning recommends the following actions: Ask about the organization; ask to see literature; ask the children if they receive money from the sale of the products; read the small print on any product; ask the children if there is an adult who is supervising them; and if they have a way to contact that adult.

If you have a concern about a group selling door-to-door, contact your local authorities, or the Attorney General's Office at (800) 551-4636 or visit the AG home page at www.wa.gov/ago(http://www.wa.gov/ago).

Document KITSAP0020100220dvad00vb5




 Business; Financial Desk 
 Raytheon Stock Plunges as Firm Warns of Shortfalls Industry: Delays in customer purchases, strain of acquisitions are among factors cited. Other defense firms' shares suffer too. 

 TONY MUNROE 
REUTERS
817 words
13 October 1999
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-6
English
 Copyright 1999 / The Times Mirror Company 

 BOSTON -- Raytheon Co., buffeted by revenue shortfalls and a profit squeeze, saw its stock lose almost half its value Tuesday after warning that earnings and revenue this year and next will fall far below expectations. 

 Raytheon's Class A shares, whose trading was halted for much of the day for reasons related to the announcement, plunged $19.50, or 46.4%, to close at $22.50 on the New York Stock Exchange. Raytheon's dive dragged other major defense stocks sharply lower Tuesday. 

 The Lexington, Mass.-based defense and aerospace company slashed its revenue estimates for 1999 to roughly $20 billion, $600 million less than it originally projected, a change it blamed on delays in customer purchase decisions and a shortage of software engineers. 

 Raytheon said it will take a charge of $638 million for the year ending Dec. 31, 1999. The charge, which does not include a separate $30 million to be incurred in 2000, is far greater than the $350 million to $450 million the company told investors in September that it might incur. 

 The charge will include $170 million related to "performance issues" on Pentagon contracts, the company said, and $125 million on four contracts at the company's Engineers & Constructors unit, which is involved with airports, rail lines and the like. 

 Raytheon also said its recent spate of acquisitions has put a strain on the company. 

 Raytheon cut its earnings estimates to $1.40 to $1.50 a share for 1999, which includes the charges, down radically from the most recent consensus estimate of $3.56 a share reported by First Call/Thomson Financial. Without the charges, the company said it would earn $2.70 to $2.80 a share. For 2000, Raytheon cut earnings projections to $2.10 to $2.25 a share, down from the consensus forecast of $3.91. 

 Raytheon said it expects revenue growth to slow to 3% on an annual basis for 1999 and 2000, down from the 6% to 8% a year called for in an earlier estimate. Profit margins at Raytheon Systems Corp., its defense and electronics unit, which accounts for about 75% of revenue, will be about 12% instead of the 15% widely expected. 

 Raytheon Chief Executive Daniel Burnham told analysts during a marathon conference call that he has been working to reform a culture at Raytheon in which managers tend to think in terms of what they hope to deliver rather than what is realistic. "We've told people: 'Tell us what's going on here. Don't hide behind hope,' " Burnham said. "This has been clearly a big wake-up call to a lot of people." 

 The Pentagon expressed support for the beleaguered company. "We consider Raytheon to be a good and reliable contractor, a contractor that brings considerable expertise and skill to its business and generally performs well," Pentagon spokesman Ken Bacon said Tuesday in response to questions about a Wall Street Journal report that the firm was behind schedule and over cost on several programs including the Tomahawk Cruise Missile and P-3 Orion and RC-135 reconnaissance aircraft. He added, "the vast majority of its programs are on schedule and within cost." 

 Analysts were harsh in their assessment of Raytheon's problems. 

 "It is as ugly as they come," analyst William Fiala said. Burnham can't afford further slip-ups if he expects to keep his job, he said. "He can't afford any setbacks from here. This has to be the bottom," Fiala said. 

 Raytheon said its efficiency efforts have been effective but that they were being neutralized by pricing pressures and narrower-than-forecast margins on usually high-margin foreign business. Raytheon said it has seen a drop-off in its lucrative international business. 

 Raytheon is in the middle of a restructuring that would cut 15,400 positions by year-end, and the company said Tuesday that 2,380 more jobs will be eliminated. Raytheon now has 108,000 workers worldwide. 

 But Burnham also said the company was out $170 million in revenue this year because the 5,000 engineers it hired were not enough. "We needed to hire 6,000," he said. 

 ING Barings analyst Sam Pearlstein, who downgraded the stock to "hold" from "strong buy," said in a research note that despite an expected 3% to 5% increase in U.S. defense spending in coming years, performance issues and "management credibility will take time to restore." 

 Raytheon had largely avoided the growing pains suffered by its competitors as the industry furiously consolidated after the end of the Cold War, and investors had rewarded the company accordingly until recently, bidding up its Class A shares to high as $75.38 over the last year. 

Document latm000020010828dvad01s65




 Business; Financial Desk 
 MARKET SAVVY SAVVY CONFIDENTIAL Brokerage Profit Forecasts Show Importance of Diversification 

Bloomberg News, Reuters
769 words
12 October 1999
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-4
English
 Copyright 1999 / The Times Mirror Company 

 Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Inc., the eighth-biggest U.S. securities firm, is expected to demonstrate this morning why Wall Street is working so hard to diversify its sources of profit. 

 The company, whose business is concentrated in high-yield bonds, was forecast to report that it earned 76 cents a share in its third quarter ended Sept. 30, according to the average estimate of seven analysts. Though that marks a fivefold increase over the shaky year-ago quarter, it's down 11% from the 85 cents forecast as recently as Sept. 20, thanks to a slump in underwriting and trading of lower-rated debt in the last two months. 

 "DLJ is a leader in the high-yield market and has a lot of eggs in that basket," said Henry McVey, an analyst at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. 

 By contrast, the third-quarter estimate for more diversified Merrill Lynch & Co., the nation's No. 1 retail broker and underwriter, has remained steady at $1.29 a share since Sept. 20, according to earnings-tracker First Call Corp. And PaineWebber Group Inc., with a larger retail business than DLJ, was expected to report it earned 83 cents a share, an estimate also little changed recently. 

 Compared with a year ago, many of the major brokerage firms are expected to post stellar third-quarter earnings gains. Their results a year ago were depressed by the global market calamity that ensued after Russia's debt default in August 1998. 

 As the accompanying chart shows, Merrill's year-over-year profit growth could be among the best in blue-chip Standard & Poor's 500 index. 

 But investors are looking past the current period to 2000 and beyond. Concerns about rising competition--and about the U.S. stock bull market's longevity--have weighed heavily on brokerage stocks this year. 

 To convince investors they can become less vulnerable to market vagaries such as the Russian troubles, U.S. securities firms are building asset management, retail brokerage and advisory businesses that generate steady fees and help stabilize earnings. 

 Lehman Bros. Holdings Inc. shares jumped 16% since Sept. 23 after the company, long known as a bond house, reported its best-ever quarter in investment banking and equities. 

 Likewise, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. sailed through rough markets last year relatively unscathed, helped in part by its ownership of the Discover card, the No. 4 credit card brand in the U.S. Morgan's shares are down 19% from their 52-week high, but they've held up better than many rivals, including Merrill, whose shares are down 33% from their peak. 

 "Diversification is a huge benefit in our minds," said Timothy Ghriskey, portfolio manager at Dreyfus Corp., which oversees $100 billion, including Morgan shares. "It really lets different lines of business carry the ball at different times." 

 * 

 Meanwhile, in what some analysts see as the latest trouble sign for the online brokerage industry, Knight/Trimark Group Inc., Nasdaq's biggest market maker, said Monday that its third-quarter profit will fall well below estimates because of slackening trading volume, less volatility in share prices and pricing improvements for customers. The warning sent Knight/Trimark's stock tumbling $3.56, or 12%, to close at $26.38 on Nasdaq. The shares are down more than two-thirds from a May high of $81.63. 

 Knight/Trimark, which processes many of the stock trades that individual investors make on the Internet, said it will report profit of 17 to 19 cents a share, versus analysts' consensus of 30 cents. The company made 13 cents a share in the year-ago quarter. The firm, based in Jersey City, N.J., will post results Wednesday. It said it expects to report revenue of $138 million, up nearly 50% from a year ago. 

 The announcement follows a projected 10% decrease in online trading volume for the third quarter, marking the first sequential quarterly decline since Net trading started to catch on in 1996. Rising interest rates and uncertainty over the market's direction have caused the decline, said analyst Amar Mehta of CIBC World Markets. 

 Knight/Trimark is a market maker, or share dealer, in more than 7,000 stocks. It makes money on the difference between the prices it pays for shares and the prices it sells them, also called the spread. A decline in share volumes hits the firm's bottom line. 

 Merrill downgraded its rating Monday on Knight/Trimark to "near-term neutral" from "accumulate." 

Document latm000020010828dvac01vtl




Abreast of the Market
 Merged Firms Underperform the Market 

 By Greg Ip 
Staff Reporter
1,661 words
11 October 1999
The Asian Wall Street Journal
AWSJ
1
English
(c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 The U.S. bull market officially enters its 10th year today. So it seems a fitting tribute that investors now are digesting the first merger pact topping $100 billion -- MCI WorldCom's bid for Sprint and its cellular division. 

 But while ever-rising stock prices have generated ever-bigger mergers, the reverse isn't true: Many companies' stocks badly underperform the market after undergoing a big merger. 

 The 30 largest deals of the past five years have on average underperformed Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, according to figures compiled by CommScan LLC, a New York-based investment-banking research firm. 

 Yet the trend is more complicated than that number suggests. It includes some spectacular successes, such as WorldCom's purchase of MCI Communications, and some equally spectacular fumbles, such as the First Union Corp. takeover of CoreStates Financial Corp. 

 Indeed, those two deals underscore a clear pattern, notes CommScan analyst Greg Streibig: Telecommunications deals have thrived while bank deals haven't. 

 It's too early to judge the success of many recent deals. Furthermore, the S&P 500, like the Dow Jones Industrial Average, has been a tough benchmark to beat, in part because of the rampaging performance of a handful of enormous technology stocks. Last week, the S&P 500 rose 4.1%, leaving it 39% higher than 12 months ago, at the depth of the debt-market crisis. The Dow Jones industrials, which rose 376.76 points last week to 10649.76, are up 38% in the same period. The average also is up 350% since the current bull market began nine years ago, on Oct. 11, 1990, when it closed at 2365.1. 

 Still, even in studies that compare merged companies with their sector, the results are underwhelming. That's despite the fact today's deals are more likely to be driven by cost cutting or cross-selling synergies, as opposed to financial engineering or diversification. 

 "The overall track record is at best a 50-50 proposition," says John Harbison, a vice president in the Los Angeles office of management consultant Booz Allen & Hamilton, who has studied merger success rates. "The up-front homework is better than 15 or 20 years ago. The driving force behind many, if not most, of the failures, is inadequate attention to the details in the post-merger integration process." 

 Toy maker Mattel Inc.'s purchase of education-software concern Learning Co. earlier this year appears to be a textbook example of a poorly executed acquisition. Mattel cited problems at the new unit in warning this week that third-quarter profit could be lower than half of Wall Street estimates. Mattel's stock plunged. 

 It revived memories of disasters that followed some big recent mergers, especially McKesson Corp.'s purchase in January for $13.7 billion of HBO & Co. (down 68%), and CUC International Inc.'s December, 1997 merger for $14.1 billion with HFS Inc., to become Cendant Corp. In both cases, problems at the acquired company came to light only after the merger was consummated. 

 Other deals stumble on more prosaic issues, such as handling the sheer size of the merger and different cultures. The stocks that resulted from the four largest bank deals of the last year and a half -- NationsBank Corp.'s purchase of BankAmerica Corp., Norwest Corp.'s acquisition of Wells Fargo & Co., First Union's purchase of CoreStates Financial and Bank One Corp.'s purchase of First Chicago NBD Corp. -- all have been lackluster relative performers. 

 They may simply be a victim of diminishing returns, says Daniel Bandi, a portfolio manager at National City in Cleveland. 

 "It's tough to grow a large institution in a mature market," he says. "For the most part, the cost savings are gone. If you're already $80 billion in assets, it's hard to steal (market share) and continue to grow 10% or 15% a year." Indeed, the most successful big bank merger of the past five years was the earliest: Chase Manhattan Corp.'s merger with Chemical Banking Corp., four years ago. Citigroup stock, created from the merger of Travelers Group Inc. and Citicorp, has been a standout performer, but in part that's because it closed one year ago, just when financial stocks began to bounce back strongly from the global financial crisis. 

 In fairness, all financial stocks this year have suffered from rising interest rates, and many of the merged banks' problems aren't merger related, such as Bank One's credit-card woes. 

 The story is reversed for telecommunications. While conventional local and long-distance business is relatively mature, data and wireless still offer enormous growth, which has benefited merger partners in the sector. 

 "In a lot of the telecom mergers, you can leverage the assets of one with the customers of the other," says Jim Leach, a telecom analyst at Conseco Capital Management. That's one reason Conseco bought more MCI WorldCom stock when it sold off briefly after last week's merger announcement. "WorldCom now has one of the better wireless spectrums out there. They're going to leverage all their assets with Sprint." Also in that deal's favor is WorldCom CEO Bernard Ebbers's record: His acquisitions of MFS Communications Co. in 1996 and MCI Communications last year rank among the most successful of large deals. 

 But Charles Calomiris, professor of finance and economics at Columbia Business School in New York who has studied bank mergers, says it's too early to draw conclusions about the success of many of these mergers, especially because they're unprecedented. 

 "How long does it take to work out the kinks when banks the size of NationsBank and BankAmerica marry? Based on mergers of much smaller banks, I'd say two to three years. These are large, complex organizations and the dust hasn't settled yet." 

 And don't rush to sell just because a merger hasn't perked up your stock. Prof. Calomiris notes poorly performing acquirors are usually restructured or acquired by someone who can do a better job. 

 --- 

 Friday's Market Activity 

 Investors resumed their occasional flirtation with consumer and cyclical issues, offering a hint the market's breadth may expand enough to position U.S. stocks for another rally. The Dow Jones Industrial Average finished 112.71 points higher, or 1.07%, at 10649.76. 

 Online brokers including Charles Schwab Corp. and TD Waterhouse Group fell after Morgan Stanley analyst Henry McVey lowered his rating on both stocks to "neutral" from "outperform," citing pricing pressures in the industry. He cited American Express Co.'s planned, free Web trades for customers with more than $100,000 with the firm. Mr. McVey also downgraded Merrill Lynch, which is getting into the online business. Schwab fell 6.1%, or 2 3/16, to 33 9/16; TD Waterhouse dropped 4.6%, or 5/8, to 12 7/8; and Merrill fell 2%, or 1 7/16, to 68 9/16. 

 Bank of America fell 9/16 to 56 1/16 in heavy trading after an analyst at Friedman Billings lowered her rating and earnings forecasts for the second-largest U.S. bank. Analyst Carla D'Arista forecasts fourth-quarter earnings of $1.20 to $1.22 a share, down from her previous $1.30. She said recent comments by the company in an internal newsletter increased her concerns about shrinking interest margins and market-sensitive revenue. "It made me really sit up and take notice," said Ms. D'Arista, who cut her rating to "accumulate" from "buy." 

 Wal-Mart Stores jumped 4 1/16 to 55 3/8, while Costco gained 4 15/16 to 82 9/32, and CVS improved 2 1/8 to 42 13/16. Shares of International Business Machines fell 2 7/8 to 113 1/2, as some worries about third-quarter earnings performance cropped up. 

 Xerox tumbled 10 1/2 to 32 1/4, sinking to a 52-week low, after the company warned it would not live up to Wall Street's third-quarter profit targets. But Credit Suisse First Boston, which anticipated the profit shortfall early last week, came out after the stock declined to raise its rating to a "buy," saying the worst for the stock was over. 

 Consolidated Papers rose 1 15/16 to 29 7/8, after the paper maker reported better-than-expected third-quarter profit. 

 Providian Financial increased 9 to 97, as concerns eased further about the San Francisco consumer lender's exposure to litigation. In May, the San Francisco district attorney's office began investigating Providian's lending practices. The San Francisco Chronicle reported the company is talking with the district attorney's office about a settlement. 

 Enron rose 1 15/16 to 38 15/16 as First Boston reiterated its buy rating on the Houston utility concern, citing confidence the company will live up to earnings expectations. 

 Shares of i2 Technologies rose 6 5/32 to 48 15/16 on Nasdaq as First Boston raised its price target on the stock of the supply chain management-software developer to $60 from $40. 

 Metromedia Fiber Network rose 3 1/8 to 36 on Nasdaq; the New York fiber-optic-communications-network operator will provide Internet technology to eBay's Web sites in a pact announced Friday. 

 Biogen fell 3 3/4 to 84 5/16 on Nasdaq after the biotechnology concern reported stronger-than-expected third-quarter results Thursday, but Salomon Smith Barney made some pessimistic comments about the stock. Salomon said based on estimated earnings for 2000 the stock is expensive. 

 Quantum-DLT & Storage Systems fell 1 7/8 to 11 1/2. Robertson Stephens cut its rating on the Milpitas, California, tape-driver maker, citing expectations of weakness in the company's earnings in the final quarter of the year. 

 --- 

 Robert O'Brien contributed to this article. 

Document awsj000020010825dvab00dgs




Abreast of the Market
 Stocks of Merged Firms Underperform the Market 

 By Greg Ip 
Staff Reporter
531 words
11 October 1999
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
16
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 The U.S. bull market officially enters its 10th year today. So it seems a fitting tribute that investors now are digesting the first merger pact topping $100 billion (&94.14 billion) -- MCI WorldCom's bid for Sprint and its cellular division. 

 But while ever-rising stock prices have generated ever-bigger mergers, the reverse isn't true: Many companies' stocks badly underperform the market after undergoing a big merger. 

 The 30 largest deals of the past five years have on average underperformed Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, according to figures compiled by CommScan LLC, a New York-based investment-banking research firm. 

 Yet the trend is more complicated than that number suggests. It includes some spectacular successes, such as WorldCom's purchase of MCI Communications, and some equally spectacular fumbles, such as the First Union Corp. takeover of CoreStates Financial Corp. 

 Indeed, those two deals underscore a clear pattern, notes CommScan analyst Greg Streibig: Telecommunications deals have thrived while bank deals haven't. 

 It's too early to judge the success of many recent deals. Furthermore, the S&P 500, like the Dow Jones Industrial Average, has been a tough benchmark to beat, in part because of the rampaging performance of a handful of enormous technology stocks. Last week, the S&P 500 rose 4.1%, leaving it 39% higher than 12 months ago, at the depth of the debt-market crisis. The Dow Jones industrials, which rose 376.76 points last week to 10649.76, are up 38% in the same period. The average also is up 350% since the current bull market began nine years ago, on Oct. 11, 1990, when it closed at 2365.1. 

 Still, even in studies that compare merged companies with their sector, the results are underwhelming. That's despite the fact today's deals are more likely to be driven by cost cutting or cross-selling synergies, as opposed to financial engineering or diversification. 

 "The overall track record is at best a 50-50 proposition," says John Harbison, a vice president in the Los Angeles office of management consultant Booz Allen & Hamilton, who has studied merger success rates. "The up-front homework is better than 15 or 20 years ago. The driving force behind many, if not most, of the failures, is inadequate attention to the details in the post-merger integration process." 

 Toy maker Mattel Inc.'s purchase of education-software concern Learning Co. earlier this year appears to be a textbook example of a poorly executed acquisition. Mattel cited problems at the new unit in warning this week that third-quarter profit could be lower than half of Wall Street estimates. Mattel's stock plunged. 

 It revived memories of disasters that followed some big recent mergers, especially McKesson Corp.'s purchase in January for $13.7 billion of HBO & Co. (down 68%), and CUC International Inc.'s December, 1997 merger for $14.1 billion with HFS Inc., to become Cendant Corp. In both cases, problems at the acquired company came to light only after the merger was consummated. 

Document wsje000020010830dvab00g7a




 Report on Business: The Wall Street Journal 
 Stocks tend to languish after big mergers The S&P 500 has, on average, outdone the 30 largest deals of the past five years 

 GREG IP 
Wall Street Journal
917 words
11 October 1999
The Globe and Mail
GLOB
Metro
B6
English
"All material copyright Bell Globemedia Publishing Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. "

 The U.S. bull market officially enters its 10th year today, so it seems a fitting tribute that investors now are digesting the first merger pact topping $100-billion (U.S.) -- MCI WorldCom Inc.'s bid for Sprint Corp. and its cellular division. 

 But while ever-rising stock prices have generated ever-bigger mergers, the reverse isn't necessarily true: Many companies' stocks badly underperform the market after a big merger. 

 The 30 largest deals of the past five years have, on average, underperformed Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, according to figures compiled by CommScan LLC, an investment-banking research firm. 

 Yet the trend is more complicated than that number suggests. It includes some spectacular successes, such as WorldCom's purchase of MCI Communications, and some equally spectacular fumbles, such as the First Union Corp. takeover of CoreStates Financial Corp. 

 Indeed, those two deals underscore a clear pattern, notes CommScan analyst Greg Streibig: Telecommunications deals have thrived while bank deals haven't. 

 It is too early to judge the success of many recent deals. Furthermore, the S&P 500, like the Dow Jones industrial average, has been a tough benchmark to beat, in part because of the rampaging performance of a handful of enormous technology stocks. Last week, the S&P 500 rose 4.1 per cent, leaving it up 39 per cent from 12 months ago at the depth of the debt-market crisis. The Dow, which rose 376.76 points last week to 10,649.76, is up 38 per cent in the same period. The industrials are up 350 per cent since the current bull market began nine years ago, on Oct. 11, 1990, when the Dow closed at 2,365.1. 

 Even in studies that compare merged companies to their peer group, the results are underwhelming. That is despite the fact that today's deals are more likely to be driven by cost-cutting or cross-selling synergies, as opposed to financial engineering or diversification. 

 "The overall track record is at best a 50-50 proposition," says John Harbison, a vice-president in the Los Angeles office of management consultant Booz Allen & Hamilton, who has studied merger-success rates. "The up-front homework is better than 15 or 20 years ago. The driving force behind many, if not most, of the failures is inadequate attention to the details in the post-merger integration process." 

 Toy maker Mattel Inc.'s purchase of education-software concern Learning Co. this year appears to be a textbook example of a poorly executed acquisition. Mattel cited problems at the new unit this week, warning that third-quarter profit could be less than half of Wall Street estimates. Mattel's stock plunged. 

 It revived memories of disasters that followed some big recent mergers, especially McKesson Corp.'s $13.7-billion purchase in January of HBO & Co. (down 68 per cent since completion of the merger), and CUC International Inc.'s December, 1997, merger for $14.1-billion with HFS Inc. (down 17 per cent), to become Cendant Corp. In both cases, problems at the acquired company came to light only after the merger was consummated. 

 Other deals stumble on more prosaic issues, such as handling the sheer size of the merger and different cultures. The stocks that resulted from the four largest bank deals of the past year and a half -- NationsBank Corp.'s purchase of BankAmerica Corp. (now Bank of America), Norwest Corp.'s acquisition of Wells Fargo & Co., First Union's purchase of CoreStates Financial, and Banc One Corp.'s purchase of First Chicago NBD Corp. -- all have been lacklustre performers. 

 They may simply be victims of diminishing returns, says Daniel Bandi, a portfolio manager at National City in Cleveland. "It's tough to grow a large institution in a mature market," he says. "For the most part, the cost savings are gone. If you're already $80-billion in assets, it's hard to steal [market share] and continue to grow 10 per cent or 15 per cent a year." 

 Indeed, the most successful big bank merger of the past five years was the earliest -- Chase Manhattan Corp.'s merger with Chemical Banking Corp., four years ago. Citigroup stock, created from the merger of Travelers Group Inc. and Citicorp, has been a standout performer, but in part that is because it closed one year ago, just when financial stocks began to bounce back strongly from the global financial crisis. 

 In fairness, all financial stocks this year suffered from rising interest rates, and many of the merged banks' problems aren't merger-related, such as Bank One's credit card woes. 

 The story is reversed for telecommunications. While conventional local and long-distance business is relatively mature, data and wireless offer enormous growth, which has benefited merger partners in the sector. 

 "In a lot of the telecom mergers, you can leverage the assets of one with the customers of the other," says Jim Leach, a telecom analyst at Conseco Capital Management. That is one reason Conseco bought more MCI WorldCom stock when it sold off briefly after last week's merger announcement. "WorldCom now has one of the better wireless spectrums out there. They're going to leverage all their assets with Sprint." 

Document glob000020010827dvab01geq


 News; Domestic 
 Impact: California GOP 

 Robert Dornan 
1,608 words
9 October 1999
01:20
Fox News: The O'Reilly Factor
OREI
English
(c) 1999 Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved.

 DORNAN:  Welcome back to THE FACTOR.  I'm Bob Dornan in for Bill. 

 And in the Impact Segment tonight, California's crumbling Republican constituency.  The once-mighty Reagan Republican Party of California seems to be coming unglued at the seams.  Since last year, California Republicans have literally lost almost a million registered voters, and the party is $300,000 in debt.  That's not unusual, but are they paying it off?  What is the cause of the California GOP's problems? 

 Joining me now from California to shed some light on this subject is a member of the -- used to be the loyal opposition -- Art Torres, chairman of the California Democratic Party and an elected officer to all. 

 Unlike Bill Press, you actually won most of your elections.  Art, would you believe that you and I are on this show together on a day -- the odds are a million to one -- when the cases that you filed against me with the FCC and FEC that -- in '97 that I shouldn't be allowed to host the Reagan show, the Keyes -- Alan Keyes show, the -- any TV shows -- it all was rejected today, so I won, but I'm here, and you're still the boss of a party in ascendancy.  But it's all gone, and I understand... 

 ART TORRES, CALIFORNIA DEMOCRAT PARTY CHAIRMAN:  It's good to be here with you, Bob. 

 DORNAN:  Well, it's good to have you here, and I understand you had to do what you had to do in '97-'98. 

 What is happening here, and how much of it has to do with the growing Latino community in beautiful California? 

 TORRES:  Well, I think you sensed that early on when you were in the Congress, the growth that was occurring, but as Gandhi always said, it -- it takes a struggle to create a movement and, quite frankly, if it wasn't for some of the anti-immigrant rhetoric, I don't think the Latinos would have awakened in the party, and the issues that are what divides us as parties has really created this -- this negative creation in terms of the individual party structures in California, and I think that's going to continue as long as the right wing of your party continues to predominate on the issues of choice, abortion and, clearly, on a number of other issues that affect Californians. 

 DORNAN:  Well, I'll take that up with you in a minute, but let's see if you... 

 TORRES:  Sure. 

 DORNAN:  ... as a Democrat and me as now the loyal opposition, a role reversal, can't agree on something.  Pete Wilson's rhetoric in the '94 election, trying to get 187 passed and going up against a woman, Jerry Brown and -- Pat Brown, two former governors' daughter and sister -- that his rhetoric was offensive, and his kickoff for the presidency with the Statue of Liberty in the background was ludicrous, so -- he was out in 30 days, but do you think that Pete Wilson created the defeat for the party as a result of the way he ran the '94 election?  I do. 

 TORRES:  Absolutely, Bob, and, quite frankly, I was on that ticket. As you know, I won the Democratic nomination for insurance commissioner but lost in the general as well in '94, but what was created was this embryonic idea that finally took hold in Latino communities and, quite frankly, in the Vietnamese and the Asian communities as well, the new immigrant communities, that they weren't wanted in the Republican Party, and that really didn't show itself until the '98 elections, and that's why it was such an illusion for Pete to think that he could run for president based on an overwhelming vote that he took in the '94 election.  It just didn't pan out. 

 DORNAN:  All right.  Now here's where I'll take exception with you. You know the old biblical warning: What does it profit a man or a woman to gain power of the whole world and lose their soul?  My experience with the Latino community -- and I was the representative of the largest, fastest-growing Latino community in Orange County -- was that every family has a picture of the patron saint of the pro-life movement, Our Lady of Guadeloupe, in their homes, that they're family oriented, hard-working, community oriented... 

 TORRES:  As well as a picture of -- as well as a picture of John Kennedy. 

 DORNAN:  And John Kennedy, but they always thought John Kennedy was pro-life.  Who knows what he was?  But how can you as a -- a Latino and probably raised Catholic -- how can the entire Latino caucus in the House vote not only for abortion but for partial-birth infanticide, with the exception of our friend, Marty Martinez?  And Loretta Sanchez endorses a candidate against a colleague in the primary.  What is going on? 

 TORRES:  I think the issue of choice is at issue, and I think "The Wall Street Journal" poll, which came out about two months ago, clearly indicated that people aren't aware of the fact that the Latino community is overwhelmingly pro-choice, Bob.  There are segments, obviously, within the -- California that -- there are very pro-life elements within the Latino community, but "The Wall Street Journal" poll showed very clearly -- and maybe you might have some staffers look it up because I don't have it in front of me, but it showed very clearly that Latinos were very, very pro-choice on the issue as articulated by "The Wall Street Journal." 

 DORNAN:  I have yet to meet a California priest -- the pro-life monsignor in the -- in Orange County, Monsignor Toto (ph) -- every priest -- even the liberal -- most liberal bishops who are flaky on some issues like homosexuality -- every one of them is anti-choice and pro- life. 

 TORRES:  Well, I'm sorry, but they don't make up a majority of the Latino electorate.  A majority of the Latino electorate in this country believes in the right of a woman to choose, and I think that's something that you're going to have to deal with and -- not only you, but, obviously, the Republican Party in California on four basic issues, which is why, I think, we're going to win the White House.  It's going to be on the issues -- on HMO reform, on education, on the environment and, clearly, on a woman's right to choose. 

 DORNAN:  So every time a Latino American goes to church and hears that prayer to move politicians to be pro-life -- remember Lieutenant Governor Bustamante got up out of his inaugural mass and stomped out before communion because someone asked for a prayer for politicians who vote for the culture of death?  I -- I don't understand how they're polling or how they asked the question. 

 TORRES:  Well, I don't know.  You ought to -- you ought to call "The Wall Street Journal," but that's what the poll indicated. 

 DORNAN:  I will.  I will, but not any of the people that I represented.  It was all that they don't know, they don't understand, they will do what Irishman did in Boston that -- they'll vote for the... 

 TORRES:  Yeah, but if they... 

 DORNAN:  ... beautiful Latino name. 

 TORRES:  But if they agreed with you, they would have voted for you. They didn't.  You know, they voted for Sanchez.  She won. 

 DORNAN:  They didn't find out until after the election, Art, that she was 100... 

 TORRES:  It was the same... 

 DORNAN:  She's voted for infanticide four times, and she's 100 percent abortion. 

 TORRES:  You know, I had the same problem -- I had some problem with the insurance companies.  I wouldn't take insurance company money. Nobody found out until after the election, and I lost.  The fact of the matter is we have to deal with the reality of where California politics is at today and, quite frankly, you're seeing movements -- especially the Vietnamese community in your part of the world in Orange County is starting to come up in the world and starting to be very much a part of the political fiber. 

 DORNAN:  Art, let me... 

 TORRES:  I think that's exciting. 

 DORNAN:  Let me give you a warning.  If -- I'd still be in Congress if it weren't for elitist Republican wealthy women who love to push abortion in the Latino community.  You're sounding like a country club Republican. 

 But thanks, Art. 

 TORRES:  Take care. 

 DORNAN:  You're a tough guy. 

 We'll -- don't touch that remote.  We're just getting started here at THE FACTOR. 

 Coming up, little JonBenet Ramsey.  Did the investigators blow it in Colorado?  We have a report. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and Programming Copyright 1999 Fox News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.  Transcription Copyright 1999 Federal Document Clearing House, Inc., which takes sole responsibility for the accuracy of the transcription. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.  No license is granted to the user of this material except for the user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Fox News Network, Inc.'s and Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.'s copyrights or other proprietary rights or interests in the material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document orei000020010910dva9000u9




Nation/World
BUSINESS
NATION/WORLD

By Associated Press, Bloomberg News and Bridge News   
580 words
9 October 1999
Charlotte Observer (NC)
CLTO
ONE-THREE
1D
English
Copyright 1999 The Charlotte Observer. All rights reserved.   

Ruling could ease AT&T's cable move

The Federal Communications Commission on Friday said it will maintain its cap on the number of homes a cable operator may have access to, but broadened its definition of the cable market - a move that may ease AT&T Corp.'s proposed $55 billion purchase of cable group MediaOne Group Inc.

The FCC voted to bar any cable company from having access to more than 30 percent of cable homes, but said the marketplace now includes all multichannel entertainment businesses, including satellite television. About 14 million U.S. homes subscribe to satellite and wireless multichannel entertainment services.

That effectively boosts the cap to about 36 percent, potentially lowering the regulatory obstacles to AT&T's planned acquisition of MediaOne.

- Associated Press

*

Xerox stock tumbles $10 after warning on profit

Shares of Xerox Corp. had their biggest decline in about two decades after the world's biggest copier maker warned it will report lower profit and stagnant sales for the third quarter.

Xerox fell $10, or 23.4 percent, to $32.75. The company's market value has shrunk by almost half this year to $21 billion. Sales are suffering as Canon Inc. and other rivals push their products while Xerox's sales force has been distracted by a reorganization.

On a per-share basis, the company said it expects profit to be 10 percent to 12 percent less than the 53 cents it earned in the year-earlier quarter. The company was expected to earn 58 cents, the average estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call. Revenue in the year-earlier period totaled $4.61 billion.

- Bloomberg News

*

Signs of greater supply leave crude oil falling

Crude oil prices plunged by more than 7 percent Friday amid signs that oil-producing nations are not delivering on promised production cutback and that the United States will sell more oil from its Strategic Petroleum Reserves.

On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for delivery in November fell $1.65 to $20.80 per barrel, the lowest closing level since Aug. 25.

- Bridge News

*

GOP bill reportedly will yield on Reinvestment Act rules

Key Republicans plan to release a financial services modernization bill next week. The bill, supported by most banks, is likely to include a concession from Sen. Phil Gramm over a major stumbling block: changing rules governing the Community Reinvestment Act, the trade publication American Banker reported.

*

In brief

SHARES OF Global Crossing jumped $4.311/4, or 13.4 percent, to $36.50 in heavy trading on speculation that the Bermuda-based communications company may be the industry's next takeover target. Speculation was fueled by a Financial Times report that Deutsche Telekom recently held preliminary takeover talks with Global Crossing, a trader said.

MITSUBISHI MOTORS and Sweden's AB Volvo announced an alliance Friday that could produce the world's largest maker of heavy trucks and buses and accelerate consolidation in Japan's once-mighty auto industry.

AIR CANADA sent a letter to shareholders asking them to vote against the $772 million cash and stock bid from Onex and American Airlines.

THE NASDAQ Stock Market, responding to concerns by brokers, is pushing back to Oct. 25 a plan to extend the availability of its trade reporting and quotation systems until 6:30 p.m. Eastern time. The plan was supposed to start Oct. 1.

Document CLTO000020090629dva902ir0




BUSINESS
REINVENTING SEARS; WEARY GIANT FIRES OFF 'SECOND REVOLUTION'

Susan Chandler, Chicago Tribune   
1,118 words
8 October 1999
Charlotte Observer (NC)
CLTO
ONE-THREE
1D
English
Copyright 1999 The Charlotte Observer. All rights reserved.   

The battle to reinvent Sears, Roebuck and Co. was supposed to have been won several years ago. Under the generalship of Chief Executive Arthur Martinez, the nation's second-largest retailer spiffed up its stores, ramped up its credit-card business and pumped up growth with new off-the-mall specialty businesses.

But just when it looked as if full-fledged victory was in sight, Sears stumbled. Credit losses soared in 1997. Several of its off-the-mall concepts failed to turn a profit and were sold off in 1998. And sales at its 850 department stores have been disappointing since the middle of last year, while specialized retailers and discounters were racking up big gains.

So it was back to the war room for Martinez, who declared in January: "It's time for the Second Revolution."

Since then, the need for profound change at the Hoffman Estates, Ill.-based retailer has become more urgent. In September, Sears announced it would not meet profit projections for the rest of 1999 - the third straight year it has failed to meet its targets. The warning was accompanied by a management shakeup that left merchandising guru Robert Mettler out of a job. Shareholders vented their disappointment, driving down Sears stock by more than 10 percent.

Clearly, new tactics were needed. This time around, Martinez has declared, the battle plan is focused on Sears' department stores. Apparel assortments are being pared. Categories are being added. Prices on commodity items are being cut.

But the Second Revolution also is attacking Sears' deeply ingrained bureaucracy. Executives are trying to shift power to the stores, and store managers are being asked to function more like old-fashioned merchants, who listen to what customers want and then deliver it.

And all this is supposed to occur without burdening employees with heaps of additional work and new initiatives. Sears, in fact, is committed to helping its 300,000 employees do a better job of balancing work and family demands.

Industry experts aren't sure whether Sears can reinvent itself and retake ground in an increasingly competitive retail battlefield.

If there is any part of Sears that doesn't appear to need fixing, it would seem to be its hard-lines businesses.

Kenmore appliances, Craftsman tools and DieHard batteries - all brands that Sears created - have consistently racked up big sales gains while the softer side of Sears has struggled to keep up.

But Steve Titus, Sears' vice president of sales for hard lines, isn't sitting on the sidelines as Sears tries to reinvent itself.

The 31-year Sears veteran is on a Second Revolution mission too: to push authority down to the men and women who manage the hard-lines departments at Sears stores. That means increasing their say about what their departments will carry - or not.

Sounds simple, perhaps. But in a giant, tightly centralized operation like Sears, where everything from sales plans to merchandise displays are determined at its sprawling headquarters, it's a seismic shift.

Still, it's something CEO Martinez believes must be done.

"I'm asking the home office to trust our stores more," says Titus, who started at Sears loading shrubs and manure into customers' cars in Milwaukee and has relocated his family 10 times for the company.

"They know what they should carry. The customers tell them."

Sears is 20 years behind the curve on this one, however, says James Schrager, professor of entrepreneurship and strategy at the University of Chicago's Graduate School of Business.

"If we want to see the outcome of central planning, we just have to look at the Soviet government," he says. "Maybe this will finally be the year that Sears arrives in the mid-1980s."

In the past, executives at Sears headquarters would base sales projections on the retailer's extensive database of what sold last year and then add on a few percentage points.

Now, the retailer is asking its district merchants how many of certain key items they expect to sell and using that information to craft sales plans. The change is already making itself felt.

"Some item numbers are being doubled. We're much closer to a market focus than ever before," Titus says.

In any battle, there are grunts and generals. And behind the scenes making everything happen are people who never get much credit. In Sears' Second Revolution, Rick Burbee is one of these unknown soldiers. Call him Sears' chief visual strategist.

As creative design director, Burbee is supposed to banish cluttered racks of clothes from stores and replace them with in-store boutiques that highlight national brands, such as Vanity Fair lingerie and Benetton apparel, and Sears' in-house brands, including Canyon River Blues denim and Circle of Beauty cosmetics.

When Martinez recently said he wanted a more tightly focused apparel assortment, it was a clarion call for Burbee and his six-person team to lead the charge.

The visual design team at Sears is definitely taking its work to a new level. Burbee recently signed Victor Skrebneski, one of the country's top fashion photographers, to create a new shop for its Crossroads women's casual apparel collection.

Although it's a fun job to create lots of little shops within a big store like Sears, Burbee and his team have to be careful not to make shopping more difficult, retail experts say.

Customers like seeing entire outfits put together for them - something in-store shops do well - but they don't want to be forced to wander from place to place shopping for a single item.

So Burbee has to take an almost Zenlike approach to his job. While he is creating groupings of apparel or other products, he is also making sure they flow into related items. His next project: Creating special shops to set off Nike athletic footwear, which is headed to the stores in January.

Photo Photo by JIM PRISCHING/Chicago Tribune: Hardware and appliances have continued to be strong sellers for Sears, but Steve Titus, who is in charge of those sections, is looking to increase sales. Overall, Sears has seen a slump in sales so it is making changes in clothing lines and other products to bring customers back. ;2. UN>NO>KRT BUSINESS STORY SLUGGED: SEARS KRT PHOTO BY JIM PRISCHING/CHICAGO TRIBUNE (KRT3 - October 7) Hardware and appliances have continued to be strong sellers for Sears, but Steve Titus, who is in charge of those sections, is looking to increase sales. Overall, Sears has seen a slump in sales so it is making changes in clothing lines and other products to bring the customers back.   

Document CLTO000020090629dva802iky




 Insider-Transaction Filing Deadline Criticized in U.S. 

 By Laura Saunders Egodigwe 
Staff Reporter
928 words
7 October 1999
The Asian Wall Street Journal
AWSJ
21
English
(c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 Insider-transaction data are followed closely by money managers and individual investors on the theory that company executives and directors, with their "inside" knowledge, know which way a company's fortunes are heading. 

 But by the time these stock transactions are made public, it is often too late for investors to play follow the leader. 

 Under U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules for insiders, company officers and directors are required to disclose trades in their companies' stock by the 10th of the month following the transaction. So, if an executive buys or sells company stock on the first of a month, as many as 40 days can pass before the trade is made public. (On the other hand, if an insider's transaction occurs on, say, the 30th of a month, the trade still has to be reported on the 10th of the following month.) 

 But the filing deadline, which has been in effect since the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934 was passed, is too lenient, some analysts and investors say. "Here we are in the information age, and this filing process moves at the speed of the 1930s," says Bob Gabele, research director at First Call/Thomson Financial, which examines insider buying and selling. 

 As soon as the SEC releases them, the juicy insider statistics, which can yield clues to the moves of a company, an industry or even the broader market, are snapped up by firms that analyze and distribute the data. A number of companies, such as First Call/Thomson Financial; Disclosure Inc. of Bethesda, Maryland; and the Web site insidertrader.com, report insider transactions to the public. 

 But a stock can move before insider transactions are made public. Take Secure Computing Corp., for instance. From Feb. 19 to Feb. 26, executives at the San Jose, California, provider of network security products and services sold 112,500 shares at prices ranging from $19 to $19.44 a share. From March 1 to March 17, the same five executives sold 188,501 additional shares at prices ranging from $13.17 to $18.25 a share. By April 10, when filings for the second round of selling arrived at the SEC, according to First Call/Thomson Financial, the stock had dropped 74%. 

 "Had we known the same five would be selling again at lower prices," says Paul Elliot, an analyst at First Call, "it would have been a clear signal to us that there was a high risk that the shares would be heading lower." 

 Along the same lines, At Home Corp. (now Excite@Home Corp.) insiders sold 320,000 split-adjusted shares in May at prices ranging from $62 to $82 a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. By the time the filings reached the SEC around June 10, the stock was trading near $46 share. Meanwhile, at Laser Vision Centers Inc., executives sold 110,200 shares from July 16 to July 22. According to First Call/Thomson Financial, the filings came in to the SEC between Aug. 3 and Aug. 10. By Aug. 10, the stock, which had been trending downward, had fallen 19%. 

 To be sure, analysts consider insider data valuable in spite of the potential reporting lag. For one thing, executives are typically early in their transactions. "Insiders are buying well before the news is obviously positive," says Tony Marchese, general partner of Laidlaw Insiders Trend Fund L.P., New York. But, he adds, "I would love to know earlier." 

 While the data are still valuable, "all things being equal, says David Coleman, editor of Insider Bulletin an Oakton, Virginia, newsletter, "it would be a far better world if insiders were required to file at the time of the trade." 

 If that were the case, public shareholders might have bailed out of Waste Management Inc. stock closer to the time insiders did. In June, some executives at the company dumped 353,925 shares at prices ranging from $53 to $56 share, following a round of selling in May. On July 6, the company issued a profit warning. The filings for the insider transactions didn't reach the SEC until around July 12, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. On July 6, Waste Management shares closed at about $53.56. The next day, the stock closed at $33.93. By July 12, when the filings were received, the stock closed at $33.75. 

 Earlier disclosure of insider data would help investors not only in the case of individual stocks, but in the case of events in the stock market itself. After the crash of 1987 when investors were desperately searching for a lifeline, insider data could have helped bolster the market, says Mr. Gabele of First Call/Thomson. But unfortunately, most of the information wasn't available until a month later. 

 The disclosure deadline in the U.S. is "lax" in comparison with that of Hong Kong, where insiders are required to report their trades to the exchange within five days of the transaction, says Craig Columbus, vice president of research at Disclosure. Earlier disclosure by corporate insiders "would level the playing field for outside investors," Mr. Columbus says. "In this age where time is money," he says, "from an information perspective, a revision to the (U.S.) securities laws seems appropriate." 

 At this point, however, there are no plans to change the rules, says John Heine, deputy director of the SEC's office of public affairs. "There's no formal proposal on the table." 

Document awsj000020010825dva700dbz




 Wall Street Stocks Ends Mostly Lower. 

274 words
8 October 1999
00:00
Xinhua News Agency
XNEWS
English
(c) Copyright 1999 Xinhua News Agency

 NEW YORK, October 7 (Xinhua) - Wall Street stock ended mostly lower Thursday as investors took profits from the market's sharp rising in the previous session one day prior to the September employment report release. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 51.29 at 10,537.05. The blue chip index rose 187.75 points Wednesday. 

 Broader stock indicators were mixed. The Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 7.76 at 1,317.64 but the technology heavy Nasdaq composite index rose 3.49 at 2,860.70. 

 The market was going down as many investors took a prudent approach by collecting profit before the Labor Department releases the employment report of September Friday. while leaving the interest rates alone on October 5, the Federal Reserve issued a clear policy warning of higher rates if their growth demand for workforce puts more pressures on inflation. 

 Although the Nasdaq index gave up early gains, some high-profile Internet stocks such as Yahoo! were higher, keeping the index in the positive territory. Yahoo! reported late Wednesday that its third quarter earnings were stronger than analysts expected. 

 The NYSE index fell 3.29 at 606.61 and the American Stock Exchanged index fell 3.07 at 784.36. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 1.65 at 428.11. 

 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 3-to-2 margin on the New York Stock Exchange, with 1,714 down, 1,244 up and 574 unchanged. 

 NYSE volume declined to 801.69 million shares from 888.83 million in the previous session. 

 (c) Copyright 1999 Xinhua News Agency. 

Document xnews00020010913dva701mj7




 Business 
 BRIEFS 

Compiled from wire reports
506 words
6 October 1999
San Antonio Express-News
SAEN
Metro
02E
English
(c) Copyright 1999 San Antonio Express-News. All Rights Reserved.

 Michigan utilities agree to $2.6 billion deal 

 DETROIT - Two major Michigan utilities are combining in a $2.6 billion deal that will create the state's largest electric and gas company. 

 DTE Energy Co., parent of Detroit Edison Co., will buy MCN Energy Group Inc., parent of Michigan Consolidated Gas Co., for $28.50 per share in cash and stock. DTE also will assume about $2 billion in MCN debt in the deal. 

 The new company, DTE Energy, will remain in Detroit and have more than 3 million customers. 

 "This really is a home run. It creates an energy powerhouse in the Midwest," said Anthony Earley Jr., DTE president and chairman. 

 CBS Web site uses cash to lure Internet users 

 NEW YORK - In a radical online come-on likely to spur copycats, CBS unveiled a sweepstakes Tuesday that rewards visitors to a new Web portal by giving away a total of $25 million in cash prizes in its first year. That means a chance to win $10,000 a day, $1 million a month and $10 million on tax day, April 17, 2000. 

 CBS Corp. is paying for the prizes with a $30 million initial cash investment in a fledgling Internet startup, CTC Bulldog Inc., which created the Web portal, iWon.com. 

 CBS officials said they expect to get back a chunk of the investment as venture capitalists sink funds into the endeavor. 

 Wal-Mart to add stores, distribution centers 

 BENTONVILLE, Ark. - Wal-Mart Stores Inc. will open, remodel or relocate as many as 340 stores next year and greatly expand the number of distribution centers it operates. 

 News of its expansion plans came Tuesday as the world's biggest retailer reported better-than-expected September sales at its stores. 

 Wal-Mart's stock rose 93.75 cents to $51.25 on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 The bulk of Wal-Mart's new stores, 160 to 165, will be SuperCenters, which combine traditional Wal-Mart discount stores with grocery operations. About 100 of them will be expansions of existing discount stores. 

 Perot Systems lands $700 million contract 

 DALLAS - Perot Systems Corp., the computer-services company headed by billionaire Ross Perot, won a $700 million contract to run computer systems for Harvard Pilgrim Health Care Inc., the largest health maintenance organization in Massachusetts. 

 Under the 10-year agreement, Perot Systems will develop new technology and ways to use electronic commerce to streamline the HMO's operations. 

 Halliburton shares fall after profit warning

 DALLAS - Halliburton Co. shares fell 13 percent, cutting $2.3 billion from the company's market value, after the largest oilfield service company warned its third-quarter earnings would miss analysts' estimates. 

 The shares fell 51/4 to 341/2 in trading of 14.7 million, more than six times the three-month daily average. The shares were the 16th-most active in U.S. trading. 

 Halliburton late Monday had warned that two joint ventures with Ingersoll-Rand Co. are doing poorly and would drag down earnings. 

Document saen000020010829dva600pih




Abreast of the Market
 Chase Manhattan Shares Decline As Fed Move Erases Stocks' Gains 

 By Robert O'Brien 
Dow Jones Newswires
1,223 words
6 October 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
C2
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 NEW YORK -- Alan Greenspan took away from stocks some of the euphoria that preceded the Federal Reserve's interest-rate ruling. 

 Chase Manhattan shares fell 1 11/16 to 75 5/8 after an intraday rise, while others, such as Wells Fargo, up just 1/8 to 40 7/8 after a larger intraday rise, lost their gains in the face of a dismal reaction in bonds. 

 But no stock in the rate-sensitive sector suffered much after what has been several weeks -- and, in some cases, months -- of poor market performance. 

 "Given the correction these stocks have absorbed, Alan Greenspan couldn't knock this market down any more," said Thomas Galvin, chief investment strategist at Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average, which had risen 108 points from Monday's close before the Federal Open Market Committee announced its meeting results, finished down 0.64 point to 10400.59. 

 Volume picked up as the market made its turn, with New York Stock Exchange trading reaching 954.2 million shares, up from 795.9 million Monday, when the industrials finished sharply higher. 

 At its policy meeting yesterday, the Federal Reserve left interest rates unchanged, indicating to some that inflation worries haven't accelerated. That could signal domestic economic expansion has slowed, something that didn't sit well with cyclical stocks, whose growth could dwindle in such circumstances. International Paper shares fell 1 13/16 to 44 3/8. 

 Although the Fed didn't change rates, it moved from its neutral stance on monetary-policy changes to a tightening bias. Analysts said they think the Fed used the move to keep the market focused on inflation data. 

 Growth-stock investors seemed to see through the symbolism. Most defied the anxieties that beset the bond market. General Electric rose 7/8 to 120 15/16. Lucent Technologies rose 1 15/16 to 64 15/16. America Online increased 4 3/8 to 113 1/2. 

 Technology stocks finished mostly higher on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Cisco Systems rose 1 1/8 to 71 5/8, Sun Microsystems rose 1 9/32 to 97 13/16 and Nextel Communications rose 1 3/4 to 77 1/8. 

 The focus on the inflation data could keep stocks in check, analysts said, but with valuations so attractive after the recent correction in the broad market, stocks may rise. 

 "Now we can start turning to fundamentals, like the third-quarter profit statements," said Arthur Hogan, chief market strategist at Jefferies. "And we have an easy platform from which to take off, since so many stocks already have corrected." 

 Micron Technology shares gained 3 1/4 to 79 5/8. After Monday's close, the Boise, Idaho, chip maker reported that its fiscal fourth-quarter loss wasn't as wide as analysts had anticipated and that fundamental conditions in its core market for memory chips had improved. 

 Other chip makers rose, helped in part by encouraging comments from Salomon Smith Barney. LSI Logic shares gained 2 13/16 to 58 7/16. Maxim Integrated Products (Nasdaq) rose 3 29/32 to 72 13/16. Texas Instruments rose 3 7/16 to 93 7/8, a 52-week high. 

 Stock prices fell for many who reported earnings shortfalls. Shares of Genzyme (Nasdaq), Cambridge, Mass., fell 10 1/16 to 32 15/16 after ING Barings lowered its rating. ING said it had concerns about the biotechnology company's ability to live up to profit forecasts. However, the analyst said the company should live up to expectations in the next several quarters. 

 Caterpillar fell 1/2 to 54 9/16. Salomon Smith Barney cut its fourth-quarter earnings estimate for the heavy-equipment maker. Cummins Engine, Columbus, Ind., fell 1 5/8 to 49 1/4, on signs that preliminary September truck orders sputtered. Shares of Paccar (Nasdaq), a Bellvue, Wash., truck maker, fell 6 15/16 to 44 7/16. Navistar, a Chicago truck maker, fell 5/8 to 46 9/16. 

 Computer Sciences fell 8 3/16 to 60 9/16. Lehman Brothers lowered its investment rating on the stock of the computer-services concern to an outperform from a buy, citing weakening demand for informationtechnology software and services. 

 Galileo International fell 5 5/8 to 30. Lehman Brothers lowered its rating and its earnings targets for 2000 on the Rosemont, Ill., computer-reservations concern. 

 Imunex (Nasdaq), a Seattle biopharmaceutical maker, lost 1 1/2 to 42. The Food and Drug Administration warned the company that a statement on the company's Web site regarding claims for its Leukine leukemia treatment were false and misleading. 

 Sepracor (Nasdaq) fell 4 1/16 to 71 7/16. Warburg Dillon Read said it expected the Marlborough, Mass., drug maker to post a wider loss in 1999 than it expected, citing expectations for weaker-than-expected revenue from the company's Xopenex asthma treatment. 

 Mattel gained 7/8 to 12 3/4, rebounding from a steep selloff Monday, when the stock fell 29% on a profit warning. Analysts said the stock had become oversold. 

 Veritas Software (Nasdaq) rose 6 29/32 to 85. Credit Suisse First Boston said the Mountain View, Calif., storage-management software concern should top the firm's earnings estimates, after Microsoft picked a Veritas product for internal use. 

 Ingersoll-Rand lost 2 1/16 to 53 9/16 and Halliburton fell 5 1/4 to 34 1/2. Halliburton, a Dallas oilfield-services and products concern, said Ingersoll-Rand, a Woodcliff Lake, N.J., industrial-equipment maker, will buy two joint ventures from a Halliburton unit for $925 million. 

 Juniper Networks (Nasdaq) rose 1 7/8 to 184. Warburg Dillon Read started coverage of the Mountain View, Calif., Internet-systems maker with a buy rating. 

 Shares of some companies that make integrated circuits for Internet applications rose amid optimistic comments from Salomon Smith Barney. On the Nasdaq, Applied Micro Circuits gained 2 5/8 to 67 5/8, Broadcom improved 3 3/16 to 120 1/4 and Galileo Technology rose 2 1/2 to 29 7/16. 

 JDS Uniphase (Nasdaq) rose 3 11/16 to 128 11/16 after Warburg Dillon Read made optimistic comments about the San Jose, Calif., laser-system-based telecommunications-product maker's plans to buy EPITAXX, which were announced Monday. 

 Johnson Controls dropped 2 1/8 to 67 13/16. Goldman Sachs started coverage of the Milwaukee automotive systems and controls maker with an outperform rating on the stock. 

 Express Scripts (Nasdaq) rose 1 17/32 to 81 9/32. US Bancorp Piper Jaffray started coverage of the Maryland Heights, Mo., pharmacy benefit-management concern with a strong-buy rating. 

 Healtheon (Nasdaq) rose 1 7/8 to 39 5/8. Piper Jaffray started coverage of the Santa Clara, Calif., health-care information services provider with a buy rating. 

 Ford Motor rose 1/2 to 51 13/16. Goldman Sachs added the stock to its recommended list. Other auto stocks also rose. General Motors gained 1 3/16 to 65 3/8, and DaimlerChrysler gained 1 3/8 to 72 3/8. 

 Colgate-Palmolive rose 7/8 to 50 13/16. Goldman raised its rating on the New York consumer products maker. 

Document j000000020010828dva600scw




 Oil Stks Dn -2: Halliburton Off 13%, Rowan Drops 6% 

297 words
5 October 1999
22:54
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Stocks of both oil equipment and services companies and oil drilling companies dropped across the board Tuesday, under combined pressure from increased output and a third-quarter profitwarning from Halliburton Co. (HAL). 

 Oilfield equipment and services companies' stocks suffered the worst losses on the day. The Dow Jones index of equipment and services stocks was down 7.6%, led by Halliburton and Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB), which recently were off 13.2% and 5.6%, respectively. 

 Meanwhile, oil drilling stocks lost 4.7% with Helmerich & Payne Inc. (HP) posting a 7.3% decline and Rowan Cos. (RDC) losing 6.3%. 

 The stocks have been under pressure, in part, because of concerns over Iraq's move to raise its oil output to 2.8 million barrels a day. 

 The U.N. Security Council's Monday decision to raise Iraq's oil revenue cap to $8.3 billion from $5.26 billion has already pushed crude oil prices down, Gaines Berland Inc.'s Kim Pacanovsky said. 

 Oil stocks were also down due to concern over Norway's lower-than-expected 200,000-barrel-a-day cut in oil production through 1999, Pacanovsky said. 

 Halliburton's Monday profit warning - fueled by poor performances at a pair of joint ventures - added more momentum to Tuesday's decline in oil shares, because once a major stock shows negative movement, said Pacanovsky, the whole sector can get dragged down. 


Pacanovsky expects oil stocks to continue their "volatile" movements
over the next couple of weeks, but still feels confident that oil shares
will rebound once the negative news cools down.
   -By Charlotte Li; Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5171



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  10-05-99



05:54 PM


Document dj00000020010827dva506kp3




 N.Y. Late Market Comment -4: Focus Back On Earnings 

557 words
5 October 1999
22:19
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 The focus on the inflation data could keep stocks in check, analysts said, but with valuations so attractive after the recent correction in the broad market, stocks may move higher going forward. 

 "Now we can start turning to fundamentals, like the third-quarter profit statements," Arthur Hogan, chief market strategist at Jefferies, said Tuesday. "And we have an easy platform from which to take off, since so many stocks already have corrected." 

 Shares of Micron Technology finished higher, gaining 3 1/4 to 79 5/8. After the close of trading Monday, the Boise, Idaho, chip maker reported that its fiscal fourth quarter loss wasn't as wide as analysts had anticipated, and that fundamental conditions in its core market for memory chips had improved. 

 Other chip makers followed higher, helped in part by some encouraging comments from Salomon Smith Barney on the sector. Shares of LSI Logic gained 2 13/16 to 58 7/16. Maxim Integrated Products advanced 3 29/32 to 72 13/16 on Nasdaq. Texas Instruments picked up 3 7/16 to 93 7/8, and reached a 52-week high Tuesday. 

 But any earnings shortfall still wreaked havoc on share prices of affected companies. Genzyme shares dropped 10 1/16 to 32 15/16 on Nasdaq, after ING Barings cut its rating on the stock of the Cambridge, Mass., biotechnology company, saying that concerns about the company's ability to live up to profit forecasts will continue to weigh on the stock. The analyst there, though, said the company should live up to expectations the next several quarters. 

 Caterpillar declined, as well, losing 1/2 to 54 9/16. Salomon Smith Barney cut its fourth-quarter earnings estimate for the heavy-equipment maker. 

 Cummins Engine, Columbus, Ind., lost 1 5/8 to 49 1/4, on signs that preliminary September truck orders sputtered. 

 Shares of Paccar, a Bellvue, Wash., truck maker, dropped 6 15/16 to 44 7/16, while Navistar, a Chicago truck maker, lost 5/8 to 46 9/16. 

 Computer Sciences fell 8 3/16 to 60 9/16. Lehman Brothers lowered its investment rating on the stock of the computer services concern to an outperform from a buy, citing weakening demand for information-technology software and services. 

 Galileo International dropped 5 5/8 to 30. Lehman Brothers lowered its rating and its earnings targets for 2000 on the Rosemont, Ill., computer-reservation concern. 

 Immunex, a Seattle biopharmaceutical maker, lost 1 1/2 to 42 on Nasdaq. The Food and Drug Administration sent the company a warning letter that said a press release issued on the company's Web site regarding claims for its Leukine leukemia treatment were false and misleading. 

 Sepracor dropped 4 1/16 to 71 7/16 on Nasdaq. Warburg Dillon Read said it expected the Marlborough, Mass., drug maker to post a wider loss in 1999 than it previously expected, citing what it said would be weaker-than-expected revenue from the company's Xopenex asthma treatment, which was launched earlier this year. 

 Mattel gained 7/8 to 12 3/4, bouncing back after a steep selloff Monday, when the stock declined 29% on a profit warning. Analysts said the stock had become oversold. 

 (MORE) DOW JONES NEWS  10-05-99 

 05:19 PM 

Document dj00000020010827dva506klu




BUSINESS
BAD NEWS IN TOY LAND EARNINGS: Mattel stock dives 28% as company issues  profit warning . CEO's job could be on the line. 

MICHAEL WHITE 
The Associated Press
592 words
5 October 1999
The Orange County Register
OCR
English
© 1999 Orange County Register.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.  All rights reserved.  

Mattel Inc. warned investors Monday that third-quarter profits will drop sharply due to a big loss at The Learning Co., the software maker it acquired this year to take Mattel beyond Barbie dolls and Hot Wheels cars into the world of high-tech, interactive toys. 

The news pushed Mattel shares down more than 28 percent and prompted some speculation that the company's chairwoman and chief executive officer, Jill E. Barad, could soon be out of a job. 

"I personally like Jill Barad, but I suspect there is some pressure from institutional shareholders for change," said Erik Gustafson, a portfolio manager at Stein Roe &Farnham Inc., which holds nearly 5 million Mattel shares. 

"There has been continual suggestion by outside commentators, including institutional investors, that the board consider a new management team," he said. "I suspect this ... makes the call for change even louder." 

Mattel, already struggling with a soft international toy market and failure to produce a blockbuster in recent years, said it expects The Learning Co. to lose $50 million to $100 million, pushing earnings for the world's largest toy maker into the range of 30 cents to 40 cents per share. 

That's well below the 67 cents-a-share profit estimated by analysts surveyed by First Call Corp. 

Its shares plunged $4.88, to $12, in heavy trading on the New York Stock Exchange. Shares have lost 74 percent of their value since hitting a 10-year peak of $47 in March 1998. 

Even before Monday's announcement, there has been intense pressure on Barad to lift sales and regain shareholder value, said Jim Silver, editor of The Toy Book, an industry newsletter. 

Barad, who took the helm in 1997, said recently that she would not seek re-election to the board of Microsoft Corp. so she could concentrate on running Mattel. 

"I don't think anybody knows for sure, but obviously you would have to guess the board is watching things closely," Silver said. 

Mattel blamed the disappointing profits on a range of problems, including higher-than-expected returns of The Learning Co. merchandise, a canceled licensing arrangement, bad debts and termination of agreements with some distributors. 

Mattel's core businesses remain sound, Barad said in a brief statement. 

"Unfortunately, The Learning Co. performance masks the underlying vitality of our core U.S. business," Barad said. "This strength was most evident in over-the-counter sales improvements for Barbie, Fisher-Price and our Wheels brands." 

Orders for those brands exceeded Mattel's capacity to ship by more than $100 million, she said. Excess orders will be filled early in the fourth quarter. 

Third-quarter results will be released Oct. 21, the company said. 

Mattel acquired The Learning Co. for $3.8 billion in stock as part of an effort to tap the growing market for sophisticated, interactive toys. The Learning Co.'s software titles include Carmen Sandiego, American Greetings, The Print Shop, Riven and Myst. 

The expensive purchase has coincided with other problems at Mattel, including the inability to produce a market-leading toy and the departure of some key managers.  

BLACK &WHITE PHOTO;  Caption: LOSS LEADER: Mattel bought software maker The Learning Co.  this year in  hopes of creating a line of interactive toys. But the  new acquisition has  been a drag on Mattel's bottom line.;  Credit: PAUL SAKUMA: The Associated Press 

Document ocr0000020010828dva5010sz




 CA Calif. Digest Briefs 

 By The Associated Press 
1,117 words
5 October 1999
16:05
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 1999.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.

 HANFORD, Calif. (AP) - Four guards have gone on trial, accused of using a known sexual predator to rape an inmate at one of the nation's deadliest prisons. 

 The alleged incident took place at the notorious Corcoran State Prison, where eight other officers are accused of setting up gladiator-style battles among inmates for the guards' entertainment. They will be tried later. 

 The guards are accused of putting Eddie Dillard, a 118-pound first-time offender, in the cell of Wayne Jerome Robertson, a 6-foot-3, 230-pound sexual predator known as the "Booty Bandit," to punish Dillard for kicking a female guard. 

 Dillard, in prison for assault with a deadly weapon, had just been transferred from another prison, in part because he had kicked the female guard. 

 The prosecutor said the guards knew Robertson was Dillard's enemy - Dillard had said so, in prison paperwork, because of a fight the two had at another prison. Prison policy forbids putting such inmates in the same cell. 

 The criminal trial in state court is the first in nearly a decade for guards at Corcoran, a maximum-security prison in the San Joaquin Valley. 

 All four guards, who face 5 to 9 years in prison if convicted, are on administrative leave with pay. None of their superiors have been subjected to any disciplinary actions as a result of the Dillard case, said Sisk, the lawyer for Decker, who supervised the other guards as well as more than 400 inmates. 

 --- 

 SAN FRANCISCO (AP) - If you paid $300 to register an out-of-state car in California in the last three years, it's time to apply for a refund. 

 But lawyers for four vehicle owners who challenged the state's "smog impact fee" aren't ready to concede the three-year limit, which would restrict the refunds to a small minority of vehicle owners who have paid them since 1990. 

 A state appeals court ruled the fee unconstitutional Friday, saying it discriminated against interstate commerce. But the court also rejected a Sacramento judge's decision that the state must make refunds available to all fee-payers since September 1992, and instead said only owners who apply in time are eligible. 

 The state's position is that vehicle owners must apply for refunds within three years of the time they paid the fee, Deputy Attorney General Michael Cornez said Monday. 

 The refunds will be paid unless Friday's ruling is overturned. The state has 40 days to decide whether to appeal to the state Supreme Court, but Cornez said he hopes the decision on an appeal will be made much sooner. 

 --- 

 Forms for filing for a refund can be found on the Department of Motor Vehicles' site on the Internet at www.dmv.ca.gov. Lawyers for the plaintiffs also offer information on refunds at a toll-free number, (877) SMOG-FEE, and at www.wyca.com on the Internet. 

 --- 

 VISTA, Calif. (AP) - In a calm, deliberate voice, Brandon Wilson said he felt no remorse for slashing the throat of a third-grade boy in a beach restroom last year, leaving him to bleed to death. 

 "I would do it again in a second if I had the chance," he told jurors Monday as the boy's mother, Sharon Cecchi, gasped from her courtroom seat. 

 "Execute me," he said. 

 Wilson, 21, spoke at his sentencing hearing against the advice of his lawyer. The jurors who decided last week that Wilson was sane when he killed 9-year-old Matthew Cecchi must now recommend a sentence of death or life in prison without parole. Testimony continues today. 

 Wilson admitted he smiled at the Oroville boy when he followed him into the restroom then snuck up behind him as he stood at the urinal. He pulled back the boy's head, slashed his throat and stabbed him five times in the back. 

 Wilson, a drifter from St. Croix Falls, Wis., claimed he was insane at the time, driven by voices from God to kill and hallucinogenic drugs. But jurors rejected that argument. 

 Court-appointed lawyer Curt Owen said Wilson's relatives and acquaintances will testify today to try to pursued jurors to spare his life. 

 --- 

 SAN FRANCISCO (AP) - Orrin Hatch said a campaign-finance reform bill by his rival GOP presidential candidate John McCain would result in the "unilateral disarmament" of the Republican Party. 

 A bill by McCain now under consideration by Congress would ban the unlimited "soft money" contributions corporations and other organizations now can make to political parties. 

 "That's the money we use to get out the vote," Hatch, a Utah senator, told about 40 people at the Commonwealth Club of California on Monday. "Literally, it would be the disarmament - the unilateral disarmament - of the Republican Party." 

 He claimed the bill would allow traditionally liberal interests such as labor unions and environmental groups to send unlimited sums of money to the Democratic Party. 

 Hatch also argued that the bill by McCain, of Arizona, would restrict "legitimate" First Amendment rights. 

 The Utah senator said he would support efforts to limit the influence of political donations by requiring daily disclosure of all such contributions on the Internet. 

 Hatch also criticized Attorney General Janet Reno for declining to name an independent counsel to investigate President Clinton's 1996 re-election campaign financing. 

 --- 

 EL SEGUNDO, Calif. (AP) - A profit warning by Mattel Inc. is raising speculation about whether Jill E. Barad will remain at the helm of the company that's home to the Barbie and Hot Wheels toys. 

 Mattel stock plummeted nearly 30 percent Monday after Barad announced that the company's children's software subsidiary, The Learning Company, will lose $50 million to $100 million in the third quarter. 

 That could put pressure on Mattel's board to replace the embattled Barad with new management. Some institutional investors already were pressing quietly for a change, analysts said. 

 "I personally like Jill Barad, but I suspect there is some pressure from institutional shareholders for change," said Erik Gustafson, a portfolio manager at Stein Roe & Farnham Inc., which holds nearly 5 million Mattel shares. 

 Barad, who is forsaking a seat on Microsoft's board to focus on Mattel, has the "full support" of the company's board of directors, spokesman Glenn Bozarth said. She was not available for interviews, he said. 

 Mattel was expected to provide more detail on the loss when third quarter results are released Oct. 21. 

 Barad, 48, was named chairwoman and chief executive officer in 1997 after building the Barbie brand from a $200 million-per-year line into an industry giant with annual sales of $1.9 billion. 

Rush

Document aprs000020010829dva50bf6e




 Avon Products Trying To Drum Up Support For Stock 

328 words
4 October 1999
18:12
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 By Cathleen Egan 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Avon Products Inc.'s (AVP) management team is campaigning. 

 The pitch? 

 That the company is still in good health. 

 Avon executives, including Chairman and Chief Executive Charles Perrin, made their first public appearance Monday since issuing a fourth quarter profit warning last week that caused Avon's stock to lose about one-third of its value. 

 "We're still the same company, despite the stock price," Perrin said to some 60 investors at a BancBoston Robertson Stevens conference here. "Fourth quarter earnings per share may be below expectation, but the sky is not falling. This will still be an all right year." 

 Fourth quarter operating profit, for example, will post a high-single-digit increase from a year ago, while operating margin will improve by one percentage point. 

 Avon executives are expected to make their company-is-in-good-health plea at a Merrill Lynch & Co. consumer-goods conference in London this week. A series of briefings with other securities analysts are also scheduled for the coming weeks, a company spokesman said. 

 A big problem with Avon, a worldwide direct seller of cosmetics, has been foreign exchange. The Brazilian real alone has cost the company some $275 million between 1998-1999, Perrin said. In the fourth quarter, negative currency translations in markets like Mexico and Russia will keep earnings flat to slightly above a year ago.. 

 By next year, Avon expects currency to have less of an impact on earnings. 

 In 2000, Perrin said the company is still aiming for mid-single-digit revenue growth, strong unit growth and continued margin expansion through increased cost-saving initiatives. Add all that up, Perrin said, and Avon will record - as it has always planned - double-digit earnings per share growth. 


"Nothing at Avon has changed," he said. "We are very confident in
Avon's future."
Cathleen Egan, Dow Jones Newswires, 201-938-5289


Document djon000020020330dva4001pb


LOCAL
HEADLIGHTS, LSD URBAN LEGENDS AGAIN MAKING THE ROUNDS HERE

SARAH ANTONACCI STAFF WRITER   
863 words
3 October 1999
The State Journal-Register
STJR
M1,M2
11
English
Copyright 1999. The State Journal Register. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

Have you heard recently that local DARE officers are teaching kids not to lick the backs of those temporary tattoos because they contain hits of LSD?

Or have you heard that those same officers are warning students to beware of cars traveling with the headlights off because if they flash their headlights at those cars, they are likely to be shot as part of a gang initiation? Don't believe it. They are both bogus rumors -- urban legends -- untrue. "Someone floats this thing around every year," said Cmdr. Bill Pittman, spokesman for the Springfield Police Department. "It seems to happen at the beginning of the school year and then again at the end. When people say that stuff, it's kind of like chain letters. There's no truth to it that we know of, not in Springfield anyway." It's not something that's been heard of anywhere else, either.

A photocopied sheet has been circulating around Springfield in recent weeks. It states: "ALERT. The police officer that works with the DARE (Drug Abuse Resistance Education) program passed this warning out to us to share with anyone that drives: Please forward this to all people you know!!!" It is followed by two popular urban legends, one commonly known as the "Flash your headlights and die" story and the other as the "Blue Star acid" tale.

In the headlight warning, the writer said DARE officers have told students: "DO NOT flash your lights at them! This is a new common gang member initiated 'game' that goes like this: the member being initiated drives along with no headlights on and the first car to flash their lights at him is now their target. He is now required to chase that car and shoot at it or into the car to complete his initiation requirement." In the "Blue Star acid" warning, the writer said DARE officers are cautioning kids to beware of temporary tattoos resembling postage stamps that have pictures of Superman, Mickey Mouse, clowns, Disney characters, Bart Simpson and butterflies. "Each one is wrapped in foil. This is a new way of selling ACID, by appealing to young children. These are laced with drugs. DO NOT HANDLE THEM! These are known to react quickly and some are laced with Strychnine. David Bloomberg, chairman of the Rational Examination Association of Lincoln Land, a non-profit group that examines the paranormal and fringe-science phenomena, said "warning" legends such as the two now circulating are meant to strike fear in the hearts of parents. "All parents are afraid their kids are somehow going to get into drugs and afraid the dealers are going to somehow hook them," he said. "Lick-and-stick tattoos are innocent little toys." He said the same holds true for the gang-initiation story. People grow fearful and then circulate the information in hopes they will help other families avoid those terrible fates. "There's always something about it that will make it seem real. In this case, it includes the DARE officer," Bloomberg said. "People think: 'Why would anyone lie about that?' And they don't check it out. It just becomes worse when news organizations pass it along uncritically." Bloomberg recommends two Web sites for people to check in order to find out if rumors, stories and tales of computer-eating viruses are true. They are www.snopes.com and www.urbanlegends.com. "Those are great sites for looking up any of these, and they usually have up-to-date information so they are good for bogus warnings, bogus offers and bogus computer virus warnings," he said.

According to www.urbanleg-ends.com, the two tales now circulating around Springfield are old -- very old. In regard to the headlight story, it says: "Sounds like a myth and is a myth. Since the early '90s, this rumor has hit just about every major city in the U.S. There are no documented cases of incidents of this type actually occurring, except for a copycat instance in Wichita in 1993." It said the story began circulating widely in October 1998 after the movie "Urban Legend" was released. The tale figured prominently in that flick, the Web site says.

In fact, the Web site lists several versions of the story that have been in circulation. One of them, example number one, is exactly the one that is circulating here now.

The "Blue Star acid" tale has been around since at least 1980, the Web site states. And the reason it rears its head periodically is because "there are no horror stories more compelling than those involving children." The headlight story has been around long enough that The State Journal-Register included it in a feature on urban legends in 1996 and in another article in 1993 that reported that police departments were scrambling to extinguish the myth in cities across the country.

And even though these two tales have long ago been proven false, police spokesman Pittman warns that it doesn't hurt to remain careful. "We do urge people to use caution, nonetheless," he said.

ON WEB SITE

Document STJR000020110105dva300liu


Letters to the Editor
Opinion
Altamont Fair's 'critics' do hatchet job

KYLE J. TESTO   
338 words
3 October 1999
The Daily Gazette
SCHGAZ
Schenectady Albany; Final
F-02
English
Copyright 1999 The Daily Gazette Co. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank, Inc.    

After reading Jill Bryce's Sept. 1 article about the resignation of Altamont Fair Manager Reid Northrup, I feel compelled to voice my concerns.

This reporter relied heavily on the information provided her by the people she refers to as a "small group of critics." Unfortunately, much of the information they provided is incorrect or distorted. I am not blaming the reporter for these errors, but rather the "small group of critics" and their perverse tactics.

As a member of the Altamont Fair Board of Directors, I have watched the manager come under unjust attack for nearly two years. Mr. Northrup has done everything possible to address our concerns and to help us develop solutions. He has provided all the necessary information for a financial audit and a review by the attorney general's office. The majority of the fair members and directors have confidence in Mr. Northrup's ability and integrity. However, a small group of critics continues to use the press to repeatedly slander the fair manager. This has been extremely harmful to the morale of our organization.

Considering all that has happened, the question "why?" has to be asked. I have no reasonable answer, but I do know that in spite of repeated requests to stop their tactics (providing incorrect information to the press and manipulating authorities and government agencies), their vindictive agenda continues.

Will they be satisfied with the manager's resignation or will they not stop until the fair closes forever? I have no answer to this question.

What I can do is issue a warning to other not-for-profit organizations. Be wary of the small groups of critics who use the press as a means to accomplish their personal goals. The volunteers who work hard and truly care about the livelihood of an organization must join and fight hard to protect it. I only hope it is not too late for us.

KYLE J. TESTO

Rexford

Document SCHGAZ0020101012dva300qxe




 Business 
 Business Briefs 

Compiled from wire reports
478 words
2 October 1999
San Antonio Express-News
SAEN
Metro
02D
English
(c) Copyright 1999 San Antonio Express-News. All Rights Reserved.

 TXU Electric seeking buyer for power plants 

 DALLAS - TXU Electric said Friday it will try to sell six natural gas-fired electric-generating plants that produce about 15 percent of its power capacity in Texas. 

 The company said it will replace the power by buying electricity in the wholesale market. A spokeswoman said TXU has never sold a generating plant. 

 The move was praised by analysts, who believe the company can get a high price for the plants, but it was condemned by environmentalists. 

 Funeral firm drops 3rd quarter estimates 

 HOUSTON - Service Corp. International stock fell 25 percent after the company said profit in the third quarter will lag analysts' estimates because it sold fewer cemetery plots and missed out on savings expected from firing French workers. 

 The second profit warning this year comes as the largest funeral-home and cemetery business tries to transform itself into a company focused on service from a growth engine that used its ever-rising stock as a currency to make acquisitions. 

 Shares of Service Corp. fell 211/16 to 7 7/8. They've lost more than three-quarters of their value in the past year after trading as high as 40 9/16 last November. 

 Telmex adds Compaq, Apple to promotion 

 MEXICO CITY - Telefonos de Mexico SA, interested in boosting the use of its Internet services, said it'll help potential clients buy computers manufactured by Compaq Computer Corp. and Apple Computer Inc. on credit. 

 Telmex has reached agreement with three computer makers to sell computers in 24-month installments, provided the users link their hardware with the phone company's Prodigy Internet Plus service. 

 Enquirer hopes new design will boost image 

 NEW YORK - The National Enquirer, the supermarket tabloid best remembered for breathless news of Elvis sightings, alien abductions and UFOs, has redesigned itself in hopes of boosting its respectability. 

 The magazine, whose weekly circulation has dipped to 2.2 million this year from 2.8 million in 1995, has been trying for several years to improve the credibility of its stories, editor Steve Coz said Friday. 

 The new design, seen in the current issue, uses bolder typefaces and more modern-looking headlines, which the editors hope will create a more newsy feel. 

 Automakers post stronger September sales 

 DETROIT - Several major automakers Friday reported vigorous U.S. sales in September, with no signs of fatigue from buyers enjoying a good economy and low prices. 

 General Motors Corp. said its sales were up 8.5 percent, to 424,184 vehicles, with a 30 percent gain in light truck sales offsetting a 7 percent decline in passenger cars. 

 For only the second month in at least 20 years, GM sold more trucks than it did cars. 

 The company recently has put more attention on its high-profit trucks, delaying some small-car development plans. 

Document saen000020010829dva200ons


 Defending travel writing (against other writers):  The case of Joe McGinniss's Going to Extremes 

 Gene McQuillan 
9,200 words
1 October 1999
Journal of American Culture
PJAC
11-21
Volume 22, Issue 3; ISSN: 0191-1813
English
Copyright (c) 1999 Bell & Howell Information and Learning Company. All rights reserved.

 When I went to Alaska in 1988 I found that everyone there seemed to come from somewhere else--and often came for bizarre reasons--so a typical conversation involved your own tangled story of how you allegedly got there. A few Alaskans made a point of asking me if I lived in America: I soon learned that it was better to smile and listen than to remind them of Alaska's statehood. At the time I was obsessed with two things--climbing Denali (Mount McKinley) and researching my Ph.D. on wilderness narratives in American literature--so a summer in Alaska seemed an ideal way to combine a passion and a profession. While there I picked up a paperback copy of Joe McGinniss's Going to Extremes, and since then the book has become a personal favorite. Actually, "favorite" is the wrong word, especially since there is so much about the book that I dislike. 

  I keep going back to Going to Extremes and other nature/travel/ adventure books with a sense that I have been asked to serve as an expert witness in a very public trial. Some of the recent suspects are writers such as McGinniss, Peter Matthiessen, Annie Dillard, Edward Abbey, Barry Lopez, John McPhee, Diane Ackerman, or Jon Krakauer. As for the prosecution, it isn't hard to come up with a list of literary critics, many of whom have focused on "travel writing" as a sort of unholy alliance between literature and leisure, as a series of texts written by generally well-fed and welleducated people who proceeded to voluntarily display all kinds of prejudice, rudeness, selfishness, and even cruelty. 

 There is, of course, a long and growing list of such accusations. One might start with a few of the better-known texts: Stephen Greenblatt's Marvelous Possessions, Edward Said's Orientalism, Mary Louise Pratt's Imperial Eyes, James Buzard's The Beaten Track, Martin Green's The Great American Adventure, Annette Kolodny's The Lay of the Land and The Land Before Her, William Cronon's edition Uncommon Ground, Jonathan Culler's "The Semiotics of Tourism," Susan Armitage and Elizabeth Jameson's edition The Women's West. One should clearly understand that this prosecution has always been more than just an attack on travel writing; I think it's more helpful to note that these scholars have also helped to put travel writing "on the map," for they obviously think that travel writing deserves serious consideration, including sustained and detailed criticism. Also, if one judges by book contracts, reviews, teaching positions, and inclusions in various anthologies, nature/travel/ adventure writers don't seem to be suffering an onslaught of too much criticism. Texts such as The Snow Leopard, Pilgrim at Tinker Creek, Desert Solitaire, Arctic Dreams, Coming into the Country, A Natural History of the Senses, or Into the Wild have become not only non-fiction best-sellers but required readings in a broad range of college-level classes. Yet this growing praise and publicity often rackets up the level of scrutiny that these texts receive, and this sort of attention is sure to intensify in the near future. 

 All of the critical texts listed above have offered academics and advanced students more complex and rigorous ways of reading travel writing, yet this may also be their limitation, for most travel writers-and most certainly the readers of such texts-pay more attention to "reputations" earned outside of the world of conferences and journals and seminars and grants. (They read Outside and Conde Nast and Harper's and Lonely Planet guidebooks, not Diacritics and Representations.) Rather than focusing on more academically oriented texts, I will focus on three arguments made by three popular writers. I agree with Morris Dickstein's claim that canons--however one may define them--are shaped more by writers than literary critics, and for those of us who spend much of our classroom time among non-specialists, these arguments present both immediate and important contexts for judging travel writing. It isn't easy to categorize the criticisms aimed at nature/travel writings, but one can find at least three central points of conflict in the following essays: Sallie Tisdale's "Never Show the Locals Your Map (Why Most Travel Writers Should Stay Home)," the opening of Jamaica Kincaid's "A Small Place," and Joyce Carol Oates's "Against Nature." 

 "Real" Places, "Real" Writers 

 Since 1970, there has been a small industry of Alaska books, most claiming to capture the "real" Alaska. Readers generally place little trust in the promotions and explanations written on paper-back editions, since the actual books usually seem more complex and less enjoyable than the promotional claims. The front cover of the 1980 edition of Joe McGinniss's Going to Extremes reads like an American flag. The blue background of the cover features a night-time shot of Juneau and Gastineau Channel. (A central image of the book is that one cannot drive to the capital of Alaska.) The snowcapped peaks that surround Juneau fill the upper portion of the front cover, and neatly match the white letters at the bottom which proclaim that this is "a brilliant portrait of Alaska-destined to become a classic." The bold red letters listing title and author continue to suggest that this is an "American" journey, and for those who need more clues, the back cover's text begins with bold letters stating that one will discover "the people, the places, the heart of America's last frontier." Yet something is most certainly "wrong" with the back cover photo: in the middle of a frontier town complete with pick-up trucks, shabby buildings under several feet of snow, and people in parkas, we see the benevolent face of Colonel Sanders gazing out from a Kentucky Fried Chicken stand. 

 Managing this balancing act between epiphany and irony involves great shifts in the tone of a book, and few writers can manage to do such "mind-bending contradictions" without some sort of clumsy transition. The "blurbs" to Going to Extremes promise that Joe McGinniss is going to do just that: 

 Going to Extremes succeeds in encompassing the surreal qualities and mind-bending contradictions of Alaska today. What Joe McGinniss found on his extraordinary two-yearlong odyssey was a world of stark contrasts. He introduces us to the people--from pot-smoking high school principals to TV-watching Eskimos--and their problems: rampant drinking, divorce, human disintegration, and oil-inspired greed and waste. And he recaptures both the power and beauty of a land still untamed and undefiled, and the endurance of a spirit of independence and adventure that finds Alaska its natural home. 

 This is indeed a fair description of much of the book. Much of the first section of the book, entitled "Winter," features Joe McGinniss as a spectator to a great deal of drinking, divorce, and "human disintegration," and in fact this section of the book leans heavily on the cheapest of tourist plots-the drinking story. People lose their jobs, their wives, their dignity, their cash, and their bodily fluids while McGinniss drinks just enough to gain admission to the show. 

 Not that it isn't a funny show. Having settled for cheap stories of drunken stupidity, McGinniss makes this book a classic of its sort. In scenes that combine The Sun Also Rises with Northern Exposure, he reveals that for many Alaskans, alcoholism and eccentric habits become a sort of citizenship test. Examples abound: an Eskimo who pisses lavishly all over a crowded diner; a drunken Irish chef who is fired after forgetting to show up at his own New Year's Eve feast; a drunken school administrator who threatens to kill his best friend and his own wife because the dinner of caribou steaks began late; a drunken Basque who seduces an even drunker woman on the ferry to Ketchikan; a drunken flower child with her friends Hippy Shark and Barely Human. Sometimes there are historical interludes, such as the story of a drunken teacher who got frostbite when he dropped his car keys in a snow drift during -79 deg F weather, or of an alcoholic card shark whose scheming girlfriend encouraged him to drink to death. For variety, McGinniss refers to Alaskan legislators in Juneau-- their drug of choice is cocaine. If nothing else, McGinniss can't be accused of settling for the usual tourist traps and obligatory scenes. These drinking binges usually involve groups of relative strangers with too much "pipeline" money and nowhere to spend it; when one factors in small towns, an openly bitter Native population, sub-zero weather, and nonexistent gun laws, it's amazing that McGinniss only hears about the murders that punctuate a winter in which the sun goes down at 1:00 in the afternoon. 

 Yet a 1995 article in Harper's argues that many contemporary travel writers ruin their own work by settling for such journalistic cheap thrills-again and again. Sallie Tisdale's "Never Let the Locals See Your Map (Why Most Travel Writers Should Stay Home)" provides a sketchy review of many recent "classic" travel books: Paul Theroux's The Happy Isles of Oceania; Diane Johnson's Natural Opium: Some Traveler's Tales; Redmond O'Hanlon's Into the Heart of Borneo and In Trouble Again; Jonathan Raban's Old Glory: An American Voyage and Hunting Mister Heartbreak: A Discovery of America; Paul Fussell's Abroad: British Literary Traveling between the Wars; and John Krich's Music in Every Room: Around the World in a Bad Mood. The point of her essay becomes immediately clear: contemporary travel writers, seemingly blessed by the ease and speed of modern transportation and propelled by ample expense accounts, are still second-rate imitators of previous travelers. The terms of her argument take direct aim at writers such as McGinniss. She begins by drawing these contrasts between more traditional (read better) travel writers and their ungrateful and grumpy followers: 

 These were writers who traveled because they wanted to travel, who wrote because they needed to tell their stories. They traveled to and wrote from. [Mary] Kingsley and [Robert] Byron became their own subjects only to the extent that they reported what happened to them and not others. Their books-however cranky at times-are flavored with generosity and good heart, and even now are anodyne to a world of xenophobia and rage. I read them and I think I would very much like to have gone along, too. 

 The modern reader has the misfortune of living in a time when travel literature is booming and good travel writers are far and few between. The genre places enormous importance on the idiosyncracies of the writer; nothing exists outside of the author's vision, the author's desire, and if that vision and desire are marked by a smallness of spirit, no amount of technical skill or precarious death-defying will suffice to make a good book.... Modern travel writers have betrayed their mandate. The writers themselves are the subject now, not the places they go, and in this particular form of navel-gazing, that means the subject is their own discontent. They may be gifted stylists, and sometimes gifted thinkers as well, but their books feel like exercises in self-importance, in existential dismay. Their success as literary products depends on the inferiority of the places they travel, of other travelers, of readers themselves. (66-67; italics added) 

 Tisdale refers to a solid range of books and destinations, and there is no need to re-review them all here. Yet there are three terms of her argument that deserve attention. The first is the notion that these earlier writings had a "good heart." I suppose that if I had to pick a travel companion, such a quality might be appealing, but I cannot remember a serious discussion of modern literature (unless we include William Bennett and Oprah Winfrey) which would admit giving preference to displays of "good heart." I can easily think of a dozen modern writers who can be devilishly self-centered and who could probably write a damn good travel book. If the following writers had traveled to Hong Kong, which ones would you (honestly) want to read first: Hunter Thompson or Amy Tan, Malcolm X or Malcolm Forbes, Norman Mailer or Martha Stewart, Robert Fulgrum or Tom Clancy, Leo Buscaglia or William Burroughs, Ishmael Reed or Ralph Reed? Or consider selecting a few passengers for a fictional planeload of characters: do you give the comp tickets to Faust, Ophelia, David Copperfield, Captain Ahab, Little Nell, the Macbeths, Bigger Thomas, Moll Flanders, Jay Gatsby, Caliban, or Forrest Gump? In simple terms, Tisdale seems eager to pick an actual travel partner, whereas many readers want a writer who will go some place where the reader would not, could not, and should not follow. "Good hearts" may be wonderful, but "bad hearts" might be even more intriguing-and explaining the alleged differences between these two groupings could lead one to suspect whether this distinction is worth making. 

 The second claim, which seems self-evident to Tisdale, is the idea of a mandate. I cannot recall ever reading this term in association with any other modern literary genre: who would imagine that a modern novelist or dramatist has been given some orders? Who is it that gives this set of commands or instructions? What self-respecting artist would volunteer to follow these guidelines? I would certainly agree that travel writers often sense that they are burdened by a series of expectations which steer them into some of the contortions, compromises, and even downright fictions which Tisdale laments. Yet her framing of this alleged mandate remains simplistic: travel writers have an obligation to present material about a place, and then to develop their own perspectives and opinions. Tisdale cannot be serious when she insists that an epidemic of self-centeredness and posturing is a product of late-twentieth-century travel. Nineteenthcentury travelers such as Alexander von Humboldt, Frederic Church, and Edward Whymper had little hesitation about promoting themselves; readers who couldn't tell Mont Blanc from Mount Snowdon knew that Wordsworth, Byron, and Shelley had all traveled near both; readers often value Twain's The Innocents Abroad even though many of its descriptions of places cannot be trusted; readers of Clarence King's Mountaineering in the Sierra Nevada didn't openly protest his suggestion that "the Quakers will have to do a great reformation in the Indian before he is really fit to be exterminated" (34). 

 The first two terms of her argument are not very helpful, but the choice of the word inferiority is much more effective. Of course, the term "inferiority" calls for some comparison: "inferior" to what? Tisdale and the writers she discusses certainly wouldn't argue that Miami or the Amazon or London or Alaska is "inferior" to some other place; comparing the last four places to each other would eventually be both annoying and pointless. These places become "inferior" because they fail to match some previous expectations, and if these expectations remain unfulfilled, then a reader should expect the sort of bitter amusement that a travel writer might take in blaming someone for this mismatch. Tisdale is also right when she notes how cliched the search for alternatives has become: "The traveler becomes even more desperate for a pure experience, something authentic.... The single traveler, the one with the small back-pack and notebook, the one looking for the 'real' Java, the 'real' Sudan, wants something the tour group does not" (73). Examples abound in her essay of writers who try so hard to adopt this method, but who haven't yet realized the trap they build for themselves. Tisdale seems especially annoyed by Paul Theroux, who continuously sets himself up for disappointment: "I kept hoping for something wilder, more remote, a bit emptier, no golfers. Yes, here and there, in an isolated part of the island was a valley of dark green jungle, but really what sort of jungle was it when you went for a hike and after a few hours ran into another Indian family picnicking?" (qtd. in Tisdale 67). Theroux seems to expect that the sighting of other people would lead to a collective groan from his readers, but his dismay at this moment confirms some of Tisdale's charges. 

 It seems that wilderness areas or public land preserves exist for a unique purpose: so that writers may visit them in solitude in order to reveal their own private epiphanies to an adoring public. What if Theroux came across this clearing and found another writer? (Once again, feel free to choose from the previous list.) Why do I imagine that they would not be especially glad to see each other, that they would compare notes, cameras, scars, and stories with an intense sense of competition? It is hard to define the travel writers' mandate, but certainly the desire for "comprehension" in the absence of other people (especially suspected tourists) seems to put incredible strains on the writer and on the audience. It isn't just that this desire leads to contrived writing and displays of bad manners: it would require some very short-sighted ideas about land use. Who could possibly build a playground for Paul Theroux? It also suggests why McGinniss and other writers settle for these seemingly automatic anti-climaxes. Any book about Alaska becomes entangled in the expectations-not the mandates, however--of a reading public which still associates Alaska with the Frontier, the Wild West, "virgin land," and the like. While McGinniss doesn't settle for tour groups and pre-packaged adventures, he does find an Alaska in which dreams have been squandered, and his humiliating portraits seem vaguely intended to punish those he meets for not meeting his expectations. I've laughed a lot while reading Going to Extremes, but it's not often the sort of laugh I'd share with others. I'm usually laughing at a well-written scene, ignoring for a moment how deeply the first part of the book relies on portraying people who are pathetic rather than tragic. 

 The Ugly the Silly, and the Bored 

 Some readers may become unimpressed with the drunken exhibitions of Going to Extremes, but the real problems in the book begin when McGinniss starts to write about those parts of Alaska that are "undefiled." Chapter 8, "The Village," begins with yet another drinking story. This time it is of a young Eskimo girl named Olive who manages to get a job in Washington, D.C., with the Department of the Interior, and the resulting culture clash is soothed with heavy amounts of alcohol and pot. Olive flies back to her village of Bethel for the holidays and perhaps for some solace. McGinniss comes to visit, and during rare moments when he is not being verbally abused by Olive and her family, he witnesses the remnants of real Alaskan life. One crucial moment is when Olive's father fashions a wooden blackfish trap: 

 It was a painstaking, intricate process, but Olive's father worked quickly, with total concentration, his sharp knife flashing, his stubby, worn fingers handling the wood the way a professional blackjack dealer handles cards.... 

 All over Alaska, Eskimos were giving up.... 

 But here, in the village, was Al Cook. A survivor. Impervious to the assaults of time and progress upon the sacred traditions of his people. 

 His expression had not changed; he had not uttered a sound for more than an hour. The blackfish trap had come to seem an extension of himself. Then, suddenly, Olive's eight-year-old brother ran in from the back room. 

 "Papa, Papa!" the boy shouted. "Hurry up! Hurry up! `Six Million Dollar Man' on TV!" (111) 

 In Jon Krakauer's Into Thin Air, Everest crawls with yuppie adventure clients; a typical Redmond O'Hanlon excursion leads to drunken disco imitations in the tribal huts of Borneo; in Bob Geldof's "Is That It?," set in Bangkok, he declines the offer of sex with a donkey but does stick around to watch a young girl pull a string of razor blades from her vagina; in Going to Extremes, Eskimos interrupt their own rituals so they can catch Anita Bryant's "Christmas in Disneyland." In a good deal of recent travel writing, such moments often replace or displace more serious ones. It seems that the writers of such pieces begin with the assumption that getting too serious, too literary, too hopeful, too Edenic, can seem both pretentious and somehow boring. One "solution" is to settle for sudden surprises and cheap shocks-an adventure client trips and falls off Everest, an Eskimo watches "Charlie's Angels," a bumbling film crew comes along on a New Guinea rafting expedition and has to swim for their lives after hitting serious rapids. This sort of writing can also act as a sort of consolation for an audience which will not be able to travel to such areas: if you're feeling trapped in your 9-to-5 job and your 40' x 100' plot of land in Queens, if you spend your time dreaming of the adventures of youth, don't torment yourself-it isn't much better in Alaska! To some extent, Joe's encounter with Olive's family is yet another version of substance abuse and family dysfunction in Alaska, and it may seem difficult and even futile to extract some deeper meaning out of his failure. At least one reason for this is the almost arbitrary structure of McGinniss's Going to Extremes, in which there is no clear purpose or destination: he winds up in bars, offices, cabins, boats, tents, and Olive's shack because of casual invitations. Yet Olive is different in one crucial way: of all the misfits and wanderers in the book, Olive represents one whose "homelessness" is a matter of race. Seen from this perspective, McGinniss's actions and attitudes might appear to be those of a racist on vacation. 

 At one point, Olives curses out McGinniss and pointedly calls him "You rich white man." While reading this sentence, I've realized how much attention I've paid to the first word rather than the last three. It is the word "you" that gives force to this otherwise obvious statement, and it is the word "you" which likewise demands a reader's attention in Jamaica Kincaid's "A Small Place," set in Kincaid's native land of Antigua. The initial part of this essay makes a standard accusation against tourists: they are clueless. They see commerce where the natives see exploitation; they see exoticism where the natives see drudgery; they complain about disgusting conditions where the natives live in disgusting conditions. Yet Kincaid really heats up when she insists that these misunderstandings aren't just a matter of naivete or innocence, but that tourists and tourism are immoral to the core. Actually, Kincaid does not use the word "immoral"-her favorite insults are "ugly," silly," and "bored": 

 Since you are being an ugly person this ugly but joyful thought will swell inside you: their ancestors were not clever in the way yours were and not ruthless in the way yours were.... An ugly thing, that is what you are when you become a tourist, an empty, ugly thing, a stupid thing, a piece of rubbish pausing here and there to gaze at this and taste that. (364) 

 [The natives] cannot stand you,...behind their closed doors they laugh at your strangeness (you do not look the way they look); the physical sight of you does not please them; you have bad manners (it is their custom to eat their food with their hands; you try eating their way, you look silly; you try eating the way you always eat, you look silly); they do not like the way you speak (you have an accent); they collapse helpless from laughter, mimicking the way they imagine you must look as you carry out some everyday bodily function. They do not like you. They do not like me! That thought never really occurs to you. Still, you feel a little uneasy. (364) 

 Every native everywhere lives a life of overwhelming and crushing banality and boredom and desperation and depression, and every deed, good and bad, is an attempt to forget this.... They are too poor to escape the reality of their lives; and they are too poor to live properly in the place where they live, which is the very place you, the tourist, want to go-so when the natives see you, the tourist, they envy you, they envy your ability to leave your own banality and boredom, they envy your ability to turn their own banality and boredom into a source of pleasure for yourself. (364-65) 

 The first accusation doesn't seem especially relevant to McGinniss: it's a long way from clueless to "ruthless," and McGinniss clearly shows that he has no power to affect life in the places he visits-he only has the power to leave when things get repetitive or threatening. As for "ancestors," this term becomes almost laughable in Alaska, a state in which transience is a virtue, and old money means anything made before the pipeline. He surely does like to "gaze at this and taste that"-especially when it involves sex, violence, or substance abuse. (As for "a piece of rubbish," who could say?) It should be noted that Kincaid is condemning tourists, rather than travel writers, but it's likely that she would have even harsher words about any traveler who carries a notebook, has a pending book contract-and won't even admit to being a "tourist." At least tourists can dodge or deflect some of these criticisms by admitting that they came for the pins coladas and that they haven't even heard of post-colonial theory, but most travel writers aren't willing to declare publicly that their dream vacation is a week of mindless middle-class hedonism. They have more "serious" purposes. 

 Or do they? McGinniss surely comes across as "silly" in Bethel, and he bumbles his way through much of the book. His attempts to eat moose soup or play basketball or act graciously all seem to worsen his relations with Olive and her family, and after a while he isn't even trying to "fit in." For much of Going to Extremes, McGinniss becomes the silly outsider, and he can afford to be more casual about his persona than most travel writers, since in many ways McGinniss isn't a travel writer. He is best known for his political writings and infamous for his pseudo-- biographies, and many people who know his writings are not aware of Going to Extremes, in the same way that people are sometimes surprised to hear that Margaret Fuller traveled to frontier Michigan in A Summer on the Lakes or that Edith Wharton wrote a book-length memoir of roughing it in Morocco. For the majority of the book, McGinniss seems gleefully oblivious about the "reputation"-be it personal or literary-that he is creating. Kincaid states that most tourists will never clearly accept the thought that "They do not like me!" The first half of Going to Extremes not only admits to this tension, but thrives on it, and the most fitting responses might be summarized as "So what?" or "That's nothing-wait till they drink a bit more!" 

 It is the last excerpt from Kincaid's essay that leads to a more substantial criticism of McGinniss's methods. His trip to see Olive was something to do, some antidote to boredom, something to do without any preparation or concern for her and her family. It's an adventure characterized by its oddity and by its potential for some truer meeting: how many other tourists to Alaska-or Antigua for that matter-get invited to stay for a couple of days in someone's house? It is a story of failed cultural difference which nevertheless makes an important point by emphasizing just how average McGinniss is. He is much more than the typical tourist, yet he is obviously far less than the idealized anthropologist (or apologist) on vacation. For every liberal critic of McGinniss there would be ten other travelers who have not had, or even dared try to have, this sort of excursion, yet McGinniss's trip becomes a pointed example of how clumsy, how ugly, how silly, and above all, how bored many modern travel writers must seem to a reader and to the people they "visit." Trips to Bethel or Barrow come across as experiences, not moments of transformation or insight. However, in the case of Going to Extremes, "silly" and "bored" still have to be reckoned carefully: if this trip represents just a casual lark, a low-brow detour from his other writings, an excursion done for the hell of it, then why did McGinniss spend two years doing it? What if all this sideshow humor and seemingly one-dimensional narrative was just a ruse, and at the heart of Going to Extremes one witnesses an epiphany in the wilderness which purges McGinniss of all this degradation? 

 McGinniss, like many of the writers mentioned by Tisdale in "Never Let the Locals See Your Map," begins by deflating a reader's expectations. These texts will not be an act of homage or pilgrimage to some holy shrine; they will be both mock-epic and darkly comic. In some ways this is a necessary and a refreshing choice. There is no shortage of texts which portray places or regions such as the Grand Canyon, Everest, the Adirondacks, or Mount McKinley as sovereign, transcendent, essential "American" landscapes, and as critics such as Leo Marx and William Cronon have pointed out, this version of "simple pastoralism" leads to a naive sense of fulfillment and solace, but not much else, and such a choice also conceals a series of very real problems involving the writer, the place, or the writing itself. Even the dullest tourists may get a suspicion that places such as Mont Blanc, Yosemite, Yellowstone, or the Adirondacks have become "postcards." Writers such as Leslie Marmon Silko, Gary Snyder, or John McPhee may confront the presence of some contamination or interference-in the area, in the language, in their own consciousness-but a desire often remains to regain that sense of "simple pastoralism" that Marx mentions. In simple terms, writers and readers often long for that sense of completion and fulfillment and disentanglement that one experiences during some Wordsworthian epiphany. Rather than just settling for a series of increasingly complex and disappointing entanglements, writers still seem to hold that belief that they can accept and recognize such problems, that they can clearly explain their ironic and tragic effects--and that they can still manage to pull some sort of insight out of the hat. Implicit in this method is the sense that ironic detachment is not enough, nor is stinging candor, nor is the scene of someone measuring the length of an Alaskan winter with empty bottles. One may not expect to see a writer boasting that his thoughts came to him, as Wordsworth's did, like the Nile flooding over the Abyssinian plain, but writers still seem to hold dearly to the notion that even if nature may be a diminished thing, it is never cheap or vulgar, If all that one can say after an ascent of Everest is "Been there, done that," then why bother reading or writing about such journeys-isn't there "more"? If Yosemite looks like it needs a few more traffic lights, then why not stay at home? If it's "too late" to see the real Alaska, then why not save the airfare? A problem sometimes develops, however, when such writers want to shift back to the more "literary" style that they had previously written off: instead of showing highlights from Baywatch, they suddenly want to quote from Moby-Dick. Roughly half-way through Going to Extremes, McGinniss and the reader begin to feel like drunks who need a sobering dose of snow and fresh air. After a few weeks of bad weather and degradation in Juneau, McGinniss wants out: "The thought occurred, as I walked, that for all the traveling through Alaska I had done, I had not yet come very near what I had perceived, at the beginning, to be its essence: the direct experience of vastness, isolation, and cold. I had spent many hours in exotic locations, in the company of unconventional human beings, but I had not yet established contact with the land" (127-28; italics added). 

 Into the Belly of the Whale 

 I must admit that when I first read Going to Extremes in the late 1980s, I began with Chapter 14, "Kahiltna Glacier," which is one of McGinniss's first stops in his search for essence and contact. While climbing McKinley/Denali in 1988, my friends and I had spent a few weeks skiing and carrying loads of gear from this glacier to higher camps, and of course I was interested in comparing some of these memories. Actually, it is only on page 10 of a 12-page chapter that McGinniss finally gets flown to the glacier, and at this point the book assumes a far different tone. 

 This did not seem part of Alaska; not even a part of the planet Earth. I felt that I had been swallowed up by mountains; that I had gone inside the belly of the whale. 

 I had hiked in mountains before, and had, in fact, grown deeply attached to the slow and gradual pleasures that a long mountain trek could produce. But McKinley was an entirely different kind of experience. Both physically and in terms of emotional and psychological reaction, it went way beyond hiking. ...to be, now, actually on the mountain, one-third of the way to its summit, surrounded, consumed by immensity and splendor beyond anything I had ever imagined-this was as dramatic as new life; or sudden death. (198) 

 In this passage, McGinniss leans heavily on some standard techniques. Witnessing an "immensity and splendor beyond anything I had ever imagined" is the common equivalent of the Sublime. Like Muir or Wordsworth, he senses a new beginning, a new life. The claim that "I had gone inside the belly of the whale" signals-or at least tries to signal-a shift in the book's purpose. Instead of remaining distant from the land, McGinniss heads directly for one of the more dangerous areas in Alaska. 

 Climbers sometimes refer to this area as "Kahiltna International," and since it serves as a landing area for bush planes (equipped for glacier landings) and as a resting area before, during, and after climbing expeditions, it often is compared to both an airport and a hotel. In camp it is relatively safe and often very sociable. Teams of climbers from dozens of countries come through, and there is usually a relative abundance of company, food, advice, and medical supplies. Leaving camp is another story: without a rope team and the knowledge of some basic technical equipment, it is foolish to go far on an Alaskan glacier. Lacking these, McGinniss is soon reduced to sleeping and eating in his tent, and after two nights he is bound for civilization again. In this situation, McGinniss took one look into the mouth of the whale-and then balked. 

 A second implication of "going into the belly of the whale" is, of course, the allusion to Jonah, the fallen man turned prophet. McGinniss surely doesn't seem intent on any moral conversion. (A few days later, he is in Valdez, Alaska, to witness a wet T-shirt contest which ends in a riot led by drunken oil workers, to ponder the passage of a law which allows citizens to carry semi-automatic weapons in public, and to watch a travel agent held at gun point by an unhappy client being hounded by drug dealers.) Yet it is clear that McGinniss cannot reconcile the cheapness and the self-destruction he had been witnessing with the view now before him: 

 After a short while, it became almost painful-the inability to look in all directions at once. To know, for example, that as I was gazing at Mount Hunter in the bright light of late afternoon, Mount Foraker, in the other direction, was there to be seen also, as the shadows of evening slid slowly up its icy walls. And an even more intense pain, a peculiar, almost delirious feeling, a sort of sweet agony, from knowing that my time here would, of necessity, be so brief. That in one day, or two, the climbers would move on, would move up, and I would fly back to green Talkeetna, to the ordinary world of Alaska in summer, which, until now, had seemed so extraordinary. (199) 

 The last and most substantial chapter is entitled "The Brooks Range," referring to a chain of sharply defined rocky cliffs and wild alpine meadows and valleys that stretch 800 miles across Alaska's northern reaches. (The entire range is above the Arctic Circle.) A trip to the area is about as close as a modem American can come to a terra incognita, and for this reason the U.S. government had decided to enclose it in Gates of the Arctic National Park. In many ways the trip recalls John McPhee's Coming into the Country, which had discussed the area and the plans of John Kaufmann for its eventual "development"-that is, no permanent development. There were no fixed trails, no ranger stations with hot coffee and flush toilets, no slide shows or gridlock episodes, just lots of peaks and a good number of grizzly bears. In his previous trip to Denali, McGinniss had found himself tent-- bound because he lacked the resources for glacier travel, but in this case he has a few very able partners: Ray Bane, John Kaufmann, and Boyd Norton. This team presented a diversity of skills, for its members included adventurers, hunters, photographers, writers, activists, bureaucrats, and just plain travelers. Yet in many ways the most important member of the team was a man who had died many years earlier. Robert Marshall's Alaska Wilderness records his own adventures in the central Brooks Range in 1930, and of course the team members also knew him as the cofounder (with Aldo Leopold) of the Wilderness Society and as the namesake of the Robert Marshall Wilderness Area, usually called "the Bob," in Montana. No other writer after John Muir exults so deeply and so often about the pure physical pleasure of being in the wilderness, and few other writers seem to have captured that feeling of "firstness" in the presence of an unknown American landscape. 

 The team had several goals. The most general one was to refine the plans for a Park which would have no plans. In clearer terms, there were no trails, roads, hiking maps, or shelters, but people would be coming, nevertheless, and the fickle political alliances that had supported Gates of the Arctic could collapse after just a few stories of travelers who found a park that seemed reserved for elite climbers and those rich enough to hires guides and planes. Having set out to chart some areas of the park, the team found the second goal was avoiding the rather curious grizzly bears which made terrifying daily appearances. The third goal was to make it to Oolah Pass. The pass separated the southern and northern halves of the range. It had probably been traveled before by early Arctic Eskimos funneling south through the pass, but it seemed likely that no white men had been there. Even Marshall had not been able to make it there, and this was a keen disappointment for him. He had wanted to look into the northern stretches of the Itkillik Valley, much as Moses had wanted to look on the Promised Land. It had been a frustrated dream for Marshall, and now McGinniss and his team approached it: 

 Now, on a warm and sunny afternoon some forty years later, we had arrived at Oolah Pass and would, the next morning, travel through it, and follow Oolah Creek down to the Itkillik. And it would all look exactly the same as it would have looked to Marshall had he found it. Not a single alteration in forty years, except whatever changes nature had wrought. And these would be few: in the Arctic, both figuratively and literally, nature moved at a glacial pace. 

 This seemed yet another concept of wilderness: having to do not just with space, but with time. Where else in the world were things just as they had been forty, or four hundred, years before? And would they still be unchanged forty or-given all the recent political and economic pressures-even four years from now? (258) 

 "It would all look exactly the same": this is a common refrain of travel writers who know that they have come to witness a place already sanctified by another writer. Edward Whymper follows Alexander Humboldt; Galen Rowell follows John Muir; Greg Child follows Joe Tasker; Sigurd Olson follows Daniel Boone; Anne LaBastille follows Henry David Thoreau; Diane Ackerman follows "the dark suns" of many previous nature writers; Joe McGinniss follows Robert Marshall. To rephrase Elizabeth Bishop, they would find it all so new, and yet so familiar. Yet for so many modern writers, re-discovery is often more elegiac than epiphanic. McGinniss knows that Gates of the Arctic, however distant it may seem to most Americans, is not far from the roads leading north to oil country. Just two sentences after defining this wilderness as an island in time, McGinniss is worrying about the near future. 

 They soon reach Oolah Pass, and while the tone of homage remains, the worries and pressures fall aside: 

 No one said anything; each of us, independently, came to a halt. No one, in fact, said anything for quite some time. Each of us was, I think, a little overwhelmed. Even Ray Bane and John Kauffmann, who had spent so much time in the Brooks Range. 

 There was no single, breathtaking feature: it was the harmony and grace of the whole that so impressed us. A broad and gentle valley lay beneath us, carpeted by tundra that looked velvety and green. Precipitous mountains rose steeply from either side; jagged and snow-covered near the peaks. A small glacier was nestled just below the summit of one. Below, the creek ran, as Ray Bane said, like quicksilver, down the middle of the valley floor. 

 It was so sudden; so unexpected; so unlike anything that had come before. Robert Marshall, had he hiked this far, would not have been disappointed. 

 Low clouds were drifting across the mountains, covering the faces like thin veils. Then, as we sat there in silence, the sun broke partially through the mist, turning sections of the valley floor a brighter green; shining on aspects of the mountain like a spotlight. 

 Boyd Norton said, "It's like seeing the world in its youth." There was nothing moving, save the clouds and the subtly shifting light. There were no sounds, except our own quiet breathing. Finally, shaking his head, Boyd spoke again, saying, more to himself than to us, "And I thought I knew what wilderness was." 

 A whole wall of peaks on the western side of the valley rose to heights close to 7,000 feet. Not one of these peaks had a name. "They don't deserve to have names," Ray Bane said. "They're bigger than names." This seemed true enough, and no one was tempted to argue, but, had Robert Marshall made it through the divide, those peaks and many others would be named. For Marshall, who had discovered the adjacent peaks in the south-central Brooks Range which he had termed the Gates of the Arctic, had given a name to almost every geographical feature he had encountered on his hikes. (261) 

 For some readers, this moment might seem to represent a more "classic" version of travel/nature writing; for others, especially Joyce Carol Oates, this moment would represent a key example of why nature/travel writing is doomed to be second-rate. In her infamous essay, "Against Nature," Oates fires off a series of accusations against the pretentious blather of much nature writing: 

 Consequently, my chronic uneasiness with Nature-mysticism; Nature-adoration; Nature-as-(moral)-instruction-for mankind. My doubt that one can, with philosophical validity, address "Nature" as a single coherent noun.... My resistance to "Nature-writing." (374) 

 Surely Nature is, for you, as for most reasonably intelligent people, a "perennial" source of beauty, comfort, peace, escape from the delirium of civilized life; a respite from the ego's ever-frantic strategies of self-promotion, as a way of insuring (at least in fantasy) some small measure of immortality? (374-75) 

 Why glamorize it, well yes but we must, we're writers, poets, mystics (of a sort) aren't we, precisely what else are we to do but glamorize and romanticize and generally exaggerate the significance of anything we focus the white heat of our "creativity" upon...? And why not Nature, since it's there, common property, mute, can't talk back, allows us the possibility of transcending the human condition for a while, writing prettily of mountain ranges, the purple crocuses outside this very window, the thrumming dazzling "life-force" we imagine we all support. Why not? (375) 

 When McGinniss sights Oolah Pass, there is not just an anthem playing in his head-the team of hikers has just broken into a chorus, and one can imagine Joyce Carol Oates smugly noting all this embarrassing communal inspiration, what she calls "a painfully limited set of responses in `nature writers'-- REVERENCE, AWE, PIETY, MYSTICAL ONENESS" (372). Yet if one accepts the terms of Oates' argument, then one needs to propose an alternative set of responses: if not REVERENCE, then what should a writer feel? (May we assume that "Been there, done that" is not an option?) Robert Marshall surely would have been overjoyed to hear that McGinniss and his partners had reached Oolah Pass and looked down the far side, and to understand the significance of McGinniss's experience it would help to bring Marshall into the discussion. In 1934, Marshall had been asked by the Secretary of the Interior, Harold L. Ickes, to define some of the principles by which wilderness areas such as Gates of the Arctic would be defended, for it seemed that many Americans were still not clear about the root values of wilderness experience. Marshall's lengthy answer would take a great deal of explaining, but he made it clear that "Life's most splendid moments come in the opportunity to enjoy undefiled nature" (qtd. in Nash, Wilderness and the American Mind 204). For Marshall, such moments had value as aesthetic experiences, but they also served as a crucial source of psychological healing. In the context of Going to Extremes, much of the "human disintegration" that McGinniss witnesses arises because people had lost both the ability and the desire to find healing from the land, even though they lived in areas where such healing was just a long walk away. 

 Oates takes a dim view of those who "glamorize" or "romanticize" Nature, and associates such feelings with tired versions of Romanticism or with everyday versions of an earnest dullness that some people mistake for "creativity." Her main point of contention is not that Nature fails to inspire, but that it does not inspire on cue, and that anyone who hikes for days to Photographer's Point (Wyoming) or Artists' Ledge (the Catskills) or one of "The Ten Best Hike-in Views" (Backpacker Magazine) is probably carrying a heavy pack and an even heavier weight of unrealistic hopes. 

 Of course, as its title suggests, McGinniss's book is not one of great subtlety, but one of the more complex themes in the book develops from a Robert Marshall quote that serves as an epigraph to the book: "Actually, only a small minority of the human race will ever consider primeval nature a basic source of happiness.... Mankind as a whole is too numerous for its problem of happiness to be solved by the simple expedient of paradise" (vii). These two sentences from Marshall help to explain why McGinniss makes such a determined effort to see Oolah Pass, to see what Marshall had almost seen. What is the value of "seeing the world in its youth"? Does the sight of this pass excite the hikers because at this moment one may have a Joycean epiphany in which an object's "soul, its whatness, leaps to us from the vestment of its appearance"? Or is it simply that these hikers saw it first, that they can confirm the value of their experience by comparing it to Robert Marshall's likely approval? McGinniss doesn't answer this, and one probably should not make assumptions about what his partners thought. It is obvious, however, that these men went on the hike for personal satisfaction, perhaps even for psychological healing, but they were also sent to this place as representatives of those who support the Gates of the Arctic preserve. The establishment of the preserve, even in the no-frills format that had been planned, would surely lead to the arrival of other hikers, who would no doubt wish to repeat the adventures of Marshall (and McGinniss and company). In effect, the Gates of the Arctic would be meant to serve as a place of public healing and discovery. Would Oolah Pass become yet another Everest? Another "place" that one can get to via a video connection on the Internet? Another place for Paul Theroux to consider "inferior" after stumbling across two stock traders and their private helicopter? 

 McGinniss, at least for a few moments, finds a sense of solace from "the simple expedient of paradise." Marshall's words imply that at some point these visitors will be "too numerous," that eventually a preserve can only try to "pass along" the experiences of the earliest explorers. In the presence of such a wilderness, McGinniss's REVERENCE and AWE seem far more fitting than Oates's urban smirk, but even he realizes that in the long term he cannot offer such experiences as an expedient, for if you define wilderness as "paradise," then you also raise the prospect that not all "pilgrims," including some writers, are fit to enter the promised land. For some recent nature writers such as William Cronon or Gary Snyder, the problem is not that people feel a sense of REVERENCE in the wilderness; the problem is that they seem to feel reverent only in the WILDERNESS. McGinniss goes "into the belly of the whale" when he gazes at Denali or Foraker or Oolah Pass-but can a travel writer experience such rebirth while tending a pumpkin patch or walking through ethnic neighborhoods in Brooklyn? This is where Oates's comments come in, and any nature/travel writer who took them too seriously would soon have a terminal and perhaps contagious case of self-consciousness. Oates's disdain for ANTHEMS seems to offer a fair warning, but when combined with Tisdale's "mandate" to display more "good heart" and Kincaid's denial of any meaningful relation between tourists and natives, then the future of a travel writer is self-evident. Tisdale suggests that most travel writers "should stay home," but the more accurate implication of these and similiar attacks is that travel writers should stay silent. (Why do I suddenly recall Paul Bowles's nightmarish image of the writer whose tongue was cut out by his captors, who then paraded him around for amusement and profit? "There! See it! That's an ex-travel writer!") 

 Of course, any answer to these criticisms begins to show why so many travel writers are damned if they do and damned if they don't. Imagine that a contemporary travel writer from Los Angeles goes to Prospect Park in Brooklyn..Should s/he ask to play cricket with the group of West Indian waiters? Make snide comments about yuppie couples from Park Slope carefully eating their store-bought gourmet picnics and complaining about the au pair? Or try to find meaning from the phragmites marsh or compare Olmsted's plans for Prospect and Central Park? Or take (imaginary) walks in the park with Ian Frazier or Paul Auster or Paule Marshall or Norman Mailer? Or write a screenplay? Is there any way to dodge accusations about being too privileged, too vulgar, too selfimportant, too self-effacing? Too racist, too brotherly, too awkward? Too pretentious, too airy, too down-toearth, too "Nature-loving"? 

 No, there isn't. To hell with the accusations. No more apologies. 

 If anything kills the spirit of travel writing, it will be the desire to write safely and properly. I don't mean to say that the criticisms of Tisdale and Kincaid and Oates are irrelevant, misguided, or useless, but when considered together these three arguments present a travel writer with few viable choices. Having a "good heart" and being politically correct and limiting your joy to a few crisp images might help in the short run-you might even get anthologized. Yet travel writing has always depended on its idiosyncracies, its casual non-allegiance to any particular rules or schools of writing, and I for one think that there are few things more deadly than reading the work of a self-conscious travel writer. Perhaps an even more pathetic situation could arise, namely the development of a reading audience which constrains travel writers and writing to some comfortable niche in the house of Literature. Thoreau was right: one needs to be writing "out of bounds," to always be "pasturing freely." Travel writers need to worry less about accusationsand more about the praise. 

 Gene McQuillan is an associate professor of English/ American Studies at Kingsborough Community College/ Queens College of the City University of New York. This article is one of a series of essays on nature/travel/adventure writers such as John McPhee, Diane Ackerman, Peter Matthiessen, and Elizabeth Bishop. He spent the summer of 1999 as an NEH Fellow at Princeton University. 

 References: 

 Works Cited 

 Kincaid, Jamaica. "A Small Place." Against the Current: Readings for Writers. Ed. Pamela Annas and Robert C. Rosen. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1998. 

 King, Clarence. Mountaineering in the Sierra Nevada. Intro. William Howarth. New York: Penguin, 1989. McGinniss, Joe. Going to Extremes. New York: NAL, 1980. 

 Nash, Roderick. Wilderness and the American Mind. New Haven: Yale UP, 1982. 

 Oates, Joyce. "Against Nature." A Forest of Voices: Reading and Writing the Environment. Ed. Chris Anderson and Lex Runciman. Mountain View, CA: Mayfield, 1995. 

 Tisdale, Sallie. "Never Let the Locals See Your Map (Why Most Travel Writers Should Stay Home)." Harper's Sept. 1995: 66-74. 

Document pjac000020010829dva10002c




 Wall Street Underwriting & Stock Performance: Tech Stock Gains Mask Quarter's Bearish Tone 

 By E.S. Browning 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
1,700 words
1 October 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
C13
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 The real winners in the quarter just ended were the people who kept their money in their wallets. 

 Sure, some stocks posted big gains in the third quarter, notably some big technology stocks such as Dell Computer and Intel. They were propelled by hopes that the Asian recovery will boost sales of computer and communications gear. 

 But the average stock now has fallen more than 20% from its high, hurting many investors and causing some pundits to talk again of a "stealth bear market." The major indexes have avoided the 20% declines that commonly signal a bear market, because the indexes are held up by the biggest blue-chip stocks. But with so many ordinary stocks down more than 20%, many investors feel they might as well be in a bear market. 

 "Even the 100 largest stocks in the S&P 500 have now fallen 20% on average from their respective 52-week highs, which historically defined a bear market," writes Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette investment strategist Thomas Galvin in a report this week, referring to the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. "At this point, six of the 11 S&P 500 sectors are down year-to-date, which is worse than in the 1994 rateincrease period and comparable to 1990," the time of the last bear market, he adds. Even blue chips such as Coca-Cola, AT&T and Berkshire Hathaway, the vehicle for investment legend Warren Buffett, are down for the year. 

 It sounds pretty dire. But Mr. Galvin remains a bull, who sees the broad-market sag as a sign that the worst is over and it is time to buy. "When pessimism is high and stocks are oversold, opportunistic investors should step in," he writes. 

 Not everyone, even among the bulls, agrees. Even if companies deliver strong earnings news, as many now expect, stocks aren't likely to soar the way they did last year at this time, PaineWebber investment strategist Edward Kerschner says. 

 "Third-quarter S&P 500 earnings-pershare should register the best gains in the last 16 quarters," he writes in his report to clients this week. "The perfect trio-no budget deficit, nil inflation and consistent profit growth-continues." That sounds pretty optimistic, and he certainly isn't forecasting a big market drop. But Mr. Kerschner, like many bullish analysts, believes that most of the good news already is priced into stocks. Even after the recent pullbacks, he says, gains from here will be moderate, reflecting growth in earnings and the economy. "This market wouldn't be truly cheap unless prices were 10% to 15% lower," he writes. 

 Analysts offer a host of reasons for the stock weakness of the past quarter, which saw declines in all the major indexes except the Nasdaq Composite Index, which is dominated by big technology names such as Microsoft, Dell, Intel and Cisco Systems. The Dow Jones Industrial Average is down 5.78% from it was when the quarter began. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index is down 6.56% and the Russell 2000 small-stock index has fallen 6.64%. The tech stocks in the Nasdaq composite were strong enough to outweigh the weakness of that market's many small stocks, nudging the index up 2.24%. 

 The Federal Reserve has been fanning the flames of fear about how much more it intends to raise interest rates. A debate has grown about the risk that third-quarter bank and computer earnings could disappoint. The Taiwan earthquake raised projections of short-term glitches in supplies of semiconductors, many of which are made in Taiwan. Concerns about year 2000-related market turbulence are becoming more immediate. 

 With that background, it wasn't surprising that stocks fell after Microsoft President Steve Ballmer repeated his view that tech stocks are overpriced. 

 In fact, a wide variety of bedrock stock groups such as banks and insurance companies declined in the third quarter, while semiconductor, biotechnology and even precious metals companies have notched gains. 

 Weak third quarters are hardly a new development. Last year, with Asia in recession and Russia defaulting on debt, the Nasdaq Composite briefly went into a bear market. The Dow Jones Industrial Average and the S&P 500 came close to falling 20% themselves. It has become typical in recent years for big mutual-fund inflows to propel markets ahead at the start of the year, followed by a third-quarter sag as inflows soften. 

 This year, the main culprit in the soft third quarter was the Federal Reserve, which raised its benchmark interest rates at the end of June and again in August. Rising interest rates are bad news for financial companies in particular, which must pay more for funds. But higher rates also tend to make business more expensive in general, sending investors on a flight toward a narrow group of companies that they think will provide strong earnings despite the higher rates. That tends to create a "narrow" market, with a few stocks staying up while others lag behind. 

 The question now is whether stocks will recover at year's end, which they did with a bang last year. The answer depends at least in part on whether the Fed sends a signal that it is done raising rates. And that signal could come as soon as Tuesday, when the Fed holds its next policy meeting. With inflation still looking dormant despite the strong economy, many Wall Street analysts think the Fed could leave rates alone this time. What they are waiting to find out is whether the Fed makes a statement hinting at a rate increase later, or adopts an official "bias" toward raising them later. If it does either, that could put a damper on stocks. 

 Interest-rate gloom could be partially offset by third-quarter earnings reports, which will trickle in during the next few weeks. But earnings expectations are high, and the actual numbers would have to be higher. In the meantime, as long as investors are afraid of the Fed, stocks will have a big obstacle in their path. 

 "When we start to look at some earnings, which should be pretty good here for the third quarter, then maybe this market is going to settle down a bit," says Tim Morris, chief investment officer at Bessemer Trust. 

 "I don't think people are worried about earnings," he says. But "they are worried about the Fed and I think there is some nervousness about the year 2000. I think we've reached the point where people don't give a lot of intellectual credence to [the risk of a serious Y2K computer glitch], but it still will have an emotional effect." 


---
               Top U.S. Debt Underwriters
  (Nine Months 1999)
                           AMOUNT       MARKET
MANAGER                (In billions)    SHARE
Merrill Lynch             $236.95       15.2%
Salomon Sm Brny            203.74       13.1
Credit Suisse FB           139.74        9.0
Morg Stan Dn Witter        137.51        8.8
Goldman Sachs              131.25        8.4
Lehman Brothers            123.37        7.9
Chase Manhattan             97.04        6.2
Bear Stearns                63.76        4.1
JP Morgan                   62.53        4.0
Banc America Sec            61.03        3.9
SUBTOTALS                $1256.92       80.9%
INDUSTRY TOTALS          $1554.07      100.0%
  Source: Thomson Financial Securities Data
                 Top Loan-Book Managers
  (Largest managers of syndicated loans)
                        ----Nine Months----
                            1999        1998
                         AMOUNT       % OF    % OF
MANAGER               (In billions)    MKT.    MKT.
Chase Manhattan          $243.96       32.6   13.6
Banc Amer Sec             157.44       21.0    8.7
Salomn Sm Bny              77.24       10.3    7.7
JP Morgan                  50.11        6.7    8.6
Bank One                   30.10        4.0    5.9
Deutsche Bank              23.37        3.1    5.0
Cred Suisse FB             15.94        2.1    7.8
Bank of NY                 13.99        1.9    3.4
First Union                12.49        1.7    1.8
BankBoston                 12.33        1.6    2.4
SUBTOTALS                $636.97       85.0%   100%
INDUSTRY TOTALS          $749.42        100%   100%
  Source: Thomson Financial Securities Data Co.
            Second-Quarter Stock Performance
  Best and worst third quarter performers among stocks with at least $5
billion market value at June 30, adjusted for subsequent change in
shares outstanding
                  Large Cap Winners
                           PRICE    % CHG. FROM
                           9/30/99     6/30/99
Micron Technology (MU)    $66.56      +64.35%
Comments: Rising prices for its memory chips are boost
Veritas Software (VRTS)    75.94      +59.97
Comments:  Business grows for storage-area network firm
Real Networks (RNWK)      104.56      +51.82
Comments: Demand for software to draw music, video from Web
Gateway (GTW)              44.44      +50.48
Comments: Optimism about computer sales; new marketing
Adobe Systems (ADBE)      113.50      +38.21
Comments: Publishing programs help it beat third quarter estimates
JDS Uniphase (JDSU)       113.81      +37.12
Comments: Demand rises for supplier of fiber network gear
Apple Computer (AAPL)      63.31      +36.71
Comments: Splash for the iMac early in quarter
Nextel Comm. (NXTL)        67.81      +35.12
Comments: Wireless company is takeover candidate
Sun Microsystems (SUNW)    93.00      +35.03
Comments: To launch free web-based software
Amgen (AMGN)               81.50      +33.88
Comments: Positive drug announcements boost biotechs
                    Large Cap LOSers
Waste Mgt. (WMI)          $19.25      -64.16%
Comments: Disappointing profit shocks investors
Healthsouth (HRC)           6.06      -59.24
Comments: Rehabilitation company under Medicare pressure
Avon Products (AVP)        24.81      -55.11
Comments: Stock sinks on earnings warning
Office Depot (ODP)         10.19      -53.82
Comments: Rising technology product inventory hits earnings
Maytag (MYG)               33.31      -52.15
Comments: Stock punished on earnings worries
Healtheon (HLTH)           37.00      -51.95
Comments: Restrictions on certain shareholder selling end
Knight/Trimark (NITE)      29.63      -51.43
Comments: Slowdown in online-trading growth hits dealer
Global Telesys. (GTSG)     19.72      -51.31
Comments: Analyst cuts views on telecoms operator
TD Waterhouse (TWE)        12.94      -48.25
Comments: Online-trading slowdown hurts broker
Teleglobe (TGO)            15.44      -48.11
Comments: Expenses at new unit, competition bite profit
Data source: Birinyi Associates


Document j000000020010828dva100rb2

Search Summary

 Text((“profit*” same “warning*”) or ("disappoint*" same "result*") or ("decreas*" same "profit*") or ("compan*" same "downturn*") or ("unexpect*" same "loss*"))   Date10/01/1999 to 10/31/1999   SourceAll Sources   AuthorAll Authors   CompanyAll Companies   Subject Not Corporate/Industrial News   IndustryAll Industries   RegionUnited States   LanguageEnglish   Results Found64   Timestamp28 March 2018 15:12  
 Page 210 of 210     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

