 
•	  N.Y. Stocks End Higher; Bad October Parts On Bright Note 
•	  New disclosure rules haunt company Web sites --- SEC regulations may force firms to recast information strategy --- Analysis 
•	  Definitely a new economy day on Footsie. 
•	  TOPSY-TURVY TRADE PATTERN CONTINUES. 
•	  Reed Elsevier pays 4.5 billion dollars in US strategic drive ATTENTION - ADDS quotes, share price, analyst comments /// 
•	  Reed Elsevier pays 4.5 bln dlrs in US strategic drive ATTENTION - RECASTS, ADDS background /// 
•	  BRIDGE TOP NEWS NoW - US stocks seen opening higher. 
•	  BRIDGE TOP NEWS NOW - US stocks seen up. 
•	  EURO TALES OF THE TAPE: Backseat Chrysler Rescue Plan 
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	  Viant, Agency.com, Modem Media Post Results After Tough Quarter 
•	  Federal-Mogul's Miller -4: Six-Part Plan To Restore Co 
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	 Newscast: Stock report   
•	 Newscast: Stock report   
•	 Group forms to head off initiatives Process out of control, say Reps. Lee, Paschall
•	 TICKETMASTER ONLINE CONSIDERING PURCHASE OF TICKETMASTER 
•	 Safe plays rule quiet trading day
•	  SMARTMONEY.COM: A New McGinning? 
•	  MARKET TALK: Dec. Nasdaq Extending Losses 
•	  MARKET TALK: Cowen Talks About Medical-Device  Companies. 
•	  MARKET TALK: Nymex Crude Futures Open Seen Flat 
•	  MARKET TALK: Dec. S&Ps, Nasdaq Weak Early 
•	  MARKET TALK: Four Reasons Not To Look For Nasdaq 5000 
•	  MARKET TALK: When It Rains It Pours At Lucent 
•	  MARKET TALK: Merrill's Steinberg: Economy Slowing, Healthy 
•	  MARKET TALK: USD/JPY Pressured On Rumors Of Insur. Failure 
•	  MARKET TALK: Does FD = Frequent Downgrades, Kerschner Asks 
•	  MARKET TALK: Bonds May Take Cue From Stocks, Again 
•	  MARKET TALK: Trade In Brent Nervous On Mideast Situation 
•	  European shares creep higher as US markets reassure ATTENTION - RECASTS, UPDATES prices /// 
•	  PLATT'S - European shares creep higher as US markets reassure. 
•	  The Seattle Times Stock Talk Column 
•	 BRIEFING
•	  Honeywell may merge with United Tech Corp. 
•	  Europe Stock Focus: Rocking Viva Escapes Media Stock Storm 
•	 ANOTHER MERGER FOR HONEYWELL? SECOND DEAL IN 10 MONTHS POSSIBLE TODAY  
•	  Tech fears send UK blue chips down. 
•	  'The Hoover's 50' for Week of October 16: Wireless and High-Tech Roundup; Lucent Retains Title 
•	  Dow down but off lows as IBM, CPI still press - Nasdaq up. 
•	  Shares Fall for Boston-Based Microchip Test Equipment Firm 
•	  Nasdaq and Small Caps Tumble; ILOG Drops 26%, SangStat 21%,   
•	  CEO of Hercules, Inc. calls it quits 
•	  London-Based Telecom Equipment Maker Gets Thumbs Up in Nasdaq Listing 
•	  Wall Street roars back with 157.60 points gain. 
•	 High-tech shares dumped.
•	  Gloom sinks HSI as Nasdaq rallies. 
•	 INVESTING: 'Basis points' help measure stock's rise, fall
•	  Shares up as investors put fears behind them. 
•	 TECH STOCKS LEAD MARKET REBOUND; DOW REGAINS PART OF THURSDAY'S LOSS AS OIL PRICES SETTLE DOWN
•	  U.S. stocks blast higher in wake of ugly sell-off. 
•	  UPDATE 1-Goldman's Cohen says slump overdone, stocks good buy. 
•	  Long shadow over stocks. 
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	 Markets Dive, Oil Prices Soar On News of Mideast Violence
•	 Investors turn October into scary month  
•	 Markets take a beating; Investors jittery  
•	 Wall Street worry
•	  US panic accelerates market falls. 
•	 ON24 Audio Investor Alert: CEO: Intel's  Profit Warning  Will Not Affect SST
•	  Imax shares sink 70%, flirt with 5-year low. 
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	 TSE sinks to 3 1/2-month low on fears of poor profits  
•	 Market tripped by US  profit warning
•	 NYSE feeling a lot more relaxed
•	  Wall Street Searches for the Bottom TIME TO SELL? Depending on Your Outlook, Letting Go Can Be the Right Move 
•	  A$ edges up against weaker U.S. dollar in Europe. 
•	  U.S. mortgage-backed mart eyes equity house of cards. 
•	  FOREX-Dollar keeps eerie calm in face of equity carnage. 
•	  Australian Morning Call - Global Markets - Oct 12. 
•	  Nortel Says Industry Future 'Robust' After Lucent Warning 
•	  French shares close sharply lower, hammered by tech stocks ATTENTION - REPETITION with 2ndlead mention in slug /// 
•	  French shares close sharply lower, hammered by tech stocks ATTENTION - RECASTS with closing levels /// 
•	  London shares fall two percent, as market frets over US earnings 
•	  Hong Kong shares fall 2.7 percent on weaker US market 
•	  Steep fall in tech sector drive European stocks sharply lower by Pierre Tran ATTENTION - UPDATES with Frankfurt closing /// 
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	 PacifiCare falls short of projected earnings: The company may freeze enrollment in its Secure Horizons Medicare HMO.
•	 Profit warning  depresses Lucent shares
•	  BIG PICTURE: Stocks And Other Softer Economic Signals 
•	 Lucent stock drops sharply after  profit warning
•	  NZ's Tranz Rail Likely To Shift Marketing Operations To Auckland 
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	  Factiva Energy Digest - October 10, 2000. 
•	  EXCLUSIVE:CS Group CEO: No Junk Bond Losses At CSFB, DLJ 
•	  RadioWallStreet.com Talks Williams-Sonoma With David Magee, Robinson Humphrey Managing Director 
•	  Apple halves in value. 
•	  Other Voices: Views from Beyond the Barron's Staff --- Euro as Scapegoat: Tighter credit is a greater threat to U.S. corporate profits 
•	  Blood and Gore if bulls are wrong. 
•	  Buyers duck for cover. 
•	  TECH WEEK: WebHouse Tested Limits of Priceline Model -2 
•	  Cold wind blows from the US. 
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	  Wall Street Stocks Fall Sharply. 
•	 Newscast: Stock report   
•	  Market Turmoil 
•	 NATION WORLD
•	  U.S. Stocks Weaker But Stable Despite Dell Warning 
•	  US STOCKS WEAKER BUT STABLE DESPITE DELL WARNING. 



 N.Y. Stocks End Higher; Bad October Parts On Bright Note 

 By Robert O'Brien 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
1,407 words
31 October 2000
21:29
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- October lived up to its reputation as the market's most exasperating month, but it left some reparations on its way out. 

 Technology issues, blitzed repeatedly over the course of the month, snapped back Tuesday, with the recent casualties in Internet infrastructure and optical products mounting the most impressive recoveries. 

 Shares of network equipment maker Ciena, for example, moved ahead $14.44 to $105.13 in trading on the Nasdaq Stock market. That made up the ground it lost Monday, when the stock fell 13%, though having fallen fully 40% from the 52-week high of 151 reached Oct. 20, the gains represented only a token payment to investors who have ridden the stock down the last week. 

 In addition, shares of Juniper Networks gained 28.63 to close at 195, Applied Micro Circuits took back 12.31 to 76.38, BEA Systems recovered 9.63 to 71.75, while SDL snatched back 38.25 to end at 259.25, all on Nasdaq. 

 The recovery in technology didn't leave Cisco Systems behind. Shares of the networking stock had stumbled Monday, after Lehman Brothers cut its price target on the stock, saying it seemed appropriate to consider more-conservative valuations in the sector over the short term, despite sound longer-term fundamentals. 

 With its stars firmly in an uptrend, the Nasdaq Composite Index had no trouble posting a sharp gain, rising 178.15 points, up 5.58%, good enough for 10th place on the all-time list of sharpest gains; the index finished at 3369.55. The Dow Jones Industrial Average advanced 135.37, or 1.25%, to end at 10971.14. 

 Of course, there have been sharper one-day rallies in the midst of the current downtrend in the market - sharper ones, in fact, in this very month of October, which proved to be a dismal one for Nasdaq investors, even by October's usually putrid standards. The Nasdaq composite rose more than 7% each on Oct. 13 and again Oct. 19, and neither lasted. 

 Understandably, market watchers showed some reluctance to throw caution to the wind. 

 "I do think an overall rally can be sustained if we get strong quarterly numbers out of Cisco, Dell, Applied Materials and Hewlett-Packard," Tim Grazioso, head of Nasdaq trading at Cantor Fitzgerald, said Tuesday. Those results are due out over the next couple weeks. "I just can't believe in any one-day move until we get past those results." 

 The final Dow Jones Industrial Average close was 10971.14, up 135.37. On the New York Stock Exchange, there were 2,059 issues advancing, 890 declining and 415 unchanged. 

 NYSE volume totaled 1,343,348,870 shares, compared with 1,158,542,980 Monday. 

 The NYSE Composite Index was 666.02, up 11.49. The average price per share rose 69 cents. 

 Regardless of what stocks do going forward, they won't have to contend with one of the powerful seasonal obstacles, tax-loss selling by portfolio managers, which should have ended Tuesday inasmuch as many mutual funds' fiscal year ended Oct. 31. 

 Of course, seasonal factors alone didn't account for the circumstances the market found itself in over the course of the month. A disappointing sales performance included in the third-quarter earnings statement Nortel Networks released a week ago reflected the weakness in the telecommunications equipment market. Nortel shares rebounded with the group Tuesday, adding 5.50 to 45.50. A fourth-quarter earnings warning from Compaq Computer at the same time reinforced the jitters about PC demand. Compaq finished 6 cents higher Tuesday at 30.41. And over a month ago, the pessimistic profit forecast from Intel spoke of the weakness in chip demand. Intel closed unchanged Tuesday at 45 on Nasdaq. 

 Add it up, it painted a picture of a technology market with weakening fundamentals, even though valuations had remained high. They didn't stay high. 

 The Nasdaq composite index fell 303.27 points, its worst October ever, in terms of points. The index retreated 8.26% for the month, the fourth-worst October it ever had. 

 The Dow industrial average, however, told another story altogether, rising 320.22 points, or 3.01%, which wasn't quite as good as the 392.91 points, or 3.8%, the average improved in October of last year, and not nearly as good as the 749.38 points, or 9.56%, the Dow industrials rose in October 1998. But it took its place as the third-best October, at least on a point basis, the industrial average ever had. 

 The Dow industrial average got a big push Tuesday from its financial components, as J.P. Morgan gained 6.13 to 165.50, while Citigroup rose 1.06 to 52.63, and American Express rose 1.56 to 60. Other financial-service stocks, including several securities brokers, fared nicely, as Goldman Sachs gained 3.31 to 99.81, while Merrill Lynch added 2.19 to 70. 

 Lehman Brothers shares moved up 6 cents to 64.50, but didn't participate in the rise the rest of the brokerage sector enjoyed Tuesday. The stock lost 5% intraday, after Morgan Stanley cut its fourth-quarter earnings estimate on Lehman Brothers. 

 Shares of Procter & Gamble fell 5.44 to 71.44, after the consumer products giant reported fiscal first-quarter earnings that matched Wall Street's projections, and showed softness in sales and in volume growth. Analysts complained that profits from ongoing operations did little to improve the bottom line of a company still working to return to double-digit profit growth. 

 Shares of Quaker Oats fell 1.31 to 81.56. Credit Suisse First Boston cut its rating on the Chicago food and beverage maker, saying that the stock, which reached a 52-week high Monday, had reached the firm's valuation target. 

 Cigna gained 3.40 to 121.95, reaching a 52-week high, helped by some optimistic comments from Lehman Brothers ahead of the earnings from the Philadelphia health maintenance organization. 

 Hartford Financial lost 3.31 to 74.44. The Hartford, Conn., insurance and financial services concern reported third-quarter results late Monday that beat analysts' forecasts. 

 Mercury General moved ahead 4.63 to 36.63. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter boosted its rating on the stock of the Los Angeles auto insurer. 

 Energizer Holdings lost 2.75 to 19.75. The St. Louis maker of alkaline batteries posted fiscal fourth-quarter earnings that fell short of what analysts had anticipated, and showed that sales declined over year-earlier levels. 

 Alpharma dropped 17.69 to 38.81. The Fort Lee, N.J., drug maker reported third-quarter results late Monday that matched what Wall Street anticipated, but failed for the first time in 14 months to beat analysts' targets. SG Cowen cut its rating on the stock. 

 WorldCom eased 1.13 to 23.75 on Nasdaq, as investors adopted a cautious stance on the telecommunications service provider ahead of the company's conference call with analysts, scheduled for Wednesday. 

 Research In Motion moved ahead 16.69 to 100 on Nasdaq, recovering the 16% loss sustained in Monday's action. Credit Suisse First Boston, in a research note Tuesday, blamed the recent weakness in price on what it called inaccurate speculation about the loss of a propsective customer, and said that the pullback affords a buying opportunity. 

 Macrovision climbed 6.94 to 72.88 on Nasdaq. The Sunnyvale, Calif., developer of copy-protection technologies reported third-quarter results late Monday that beat what Wall Street had been anticipating. 

 Western Wireless moved ahead 8.75 to 47.50 on Nasdaq. The Bellevue, Wash., provider of wireless communications services psoted third-quarter results late Monday that missed analysts' projections, though other details of its report, such as subscriber growth, appealed to investors. 

 Rambus dropped 8.50 to 44.94 on Nasdaq. The losses in the stock of the Mountain View, Calif., developer of high-bandwidth chip technologies came after a trade publication, Electronic Buyers' News, said in a report Monday that Intel plans to drop development of a chipset for a mobile version of a chip based on Rambus technology. 

 Solectron lost 3.94 to 44. The Milpitas, Calif., electronics equipment manufacturer agreed to acquire its Singapore competitor NatSteel Electronics for about $2.4 billion. 

5042

Document dj00000020010805dwav045n3




 BUSINESS 
 New disclosure rules haunt company Web sites --- SEC regulations may force firms to recast information strategy --- Analysis 

 Andrea Orr 
REUTERS NEWS AGENCY
881 words
30 October 2000
The Toronto Star
TOR
1
BU04
English
 Copyright (c) 2000 The Toronto Star 

 PALO ALTO, Calif. - New financial-disclosure laws that bar companies from giving news selectively to Wall Street insiders have already affected the earnings reporting season, with individual investors now being able to listen in on conference calls once reserved for a small group of industry analysts. 

 The same rules could also make companies rethink the way they communicate with the general public over the Internet. 

 Lawyers and securities experts who attended a recent seminar on Cyberspace and Securities Law said companies will need to consider the content they post on their Web sites, and even the way they respond to rumours posted in Internet chat rooms. 

 "If you respond to Internet chat room gossip, you have to ask, `Have you selectively disclosed information?' " said Brian Lane, a former director of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's division of corporate finance. 

 Lane, who chaired the recent conference here, argued that responding to such a rumour, if only to deny it, could be viewed as a form of selective disclosure because large portions of the investing public still do not get their information online. 

 Responding to a rumour, 

 if only to deny it, could 

 be viewed as a form 

 of selective disclosure . . . Although most companies have tried to avoid that problem by a policy of not responding to market rumours, that may not be the best solution either, he said. Failure to respond to a rumour circulating online could arguably be viewed as a non-disclosure, particularly if the rumour contains a grain of truth. 

 Internet chat rooms are just one of the murky areas arising out of the commission's new Fair Disclosure rule - so-called Regulation FD - which took effect last week, barring companies from sharing information selectively. 

 Recently in Canada, Air Canada drew criticism for reportedly disclosing a surprise profit warning in phone calls to selected analysts after stock markets had closed. 

 The airline's stock nose-dived a day later, bringing howls of complaints from investors. 

 A potentially more complex issue is the matter of companies' own Web sites, which are increasingly being used as virtual bulletin boards to post news releases and other content. 

 The problem with posting news online, said panelists at the conference, is that it never really goes away. 

 Companies that religiously post all their news on their own Web sites may have the best intentions of informing the public at large, but could be doing more harm than good unless out-of-date postings are removed. 

 "You certainly need to look at your Web site and think about scouring it," said Kristina Schillinger a lawyer at the securities commission's division of corporate finance. 

 David Furbush, a securities lawyer in Palo Alto, said this caution applies particularly to many high-tech companies and Internet start-ups, which use their Web sites almost like promotional tools, posting mention of every award won and every favourable mention received in the media. 

 "It raises the question of whether or not the company could then be accused of press conditioning," he said. 

 Some of the biggest companies are already mindful of the double-edged sword that a Web site can be. Intel Corp., for instance, says it will not post anything online that it would not feel comfortable printing on paper and distributing 100,000 times. 

 . . . yet failure to respond to a rumour circulating online could arguably be viewed as a non-disclosure Cary Klafter, director of corporate affairs at Intel, said the company is careful not only to post on its World Wide Web site any news releases discussing Intel's financial outlook, but also updating them whenever the outlook changes. 

 That way, investors can be sure of getting the most current news on the state of the company. 

 "As long as you can read an Intel statement online, you can believe it," Klafter said. 

 "You have to assume that the most ignorant and the unluckiest investors are reading your Web site." 

 It is a standard that some smaller companies could have a hard time living up to, however. 

 "I don't know if this is appropriate for all companies," Lane said. This "evergreen outlook" could be a recipe for disaster if companies neglect to disclose a small development that winds up being material to results. 

 Lane suggested that companies with limited resources who wish to observe the Fair Disclosure rules adopt a policy of posting periodic updates, perhaps once a month. 

 It seems clear, however, that the same laws designed to get more information into the hands of investors may actually result in keeping them more in the dark, if companies seeking to avoid selective disclosure decide simply not to disclose anything to anyone. 

 Diane Ward, senior counsel for BP Amoco PLC's Arco division, said her company is likely to respond to the new laws with silence. 

 "We haven't figured it out yet, but I suspect we'll just opt for not doing an outlook section on our Web site at all," she said. 

 "This is a commodity business and it is hard to make forecasts. We can't predict oil prices, or the situation in the Middle East." 

Document tor0000020010813dwau0179c




 Definitely a new economy day on Footsie. 

 By (Financial Times Service). 
446 words
28 October 2000
Irish Times
IRTI
18
English
(c) 2000

 FTSE 250: 6,568.7 (+19.0); FTSE SmallCap: 3,269.2 (+15.2) 

 Wall Street's strong rally overnight and a good start to the US session yesterday provided the perfect backdrop for London's equity market. 

 US markets ran on in the wake of a lower than expected rate of increase in US gross domestic product in the third quarter, which was seen as reducing the chances of a rise in interest rates after the November 15th meeting of the Federal Reserve's rate-setting Open Market Committee. The FTSE 100, meanwhile, ended a generally positive week in good heart, registering its third winning performance out of the last five. 

 Although the rest of the main indices posted gains on the day, it was not such a good week for the Techmark 100 which was battered in midweek by the fallout from further bad news from the US tech sector. The FTSE 250 was finally 19.0 up at 6,568.7, for a gain of 66.7, or 1 per cent, on the week, while the SmallCap rose 15.2 to 3,269.2, up 0.3 per cent over the five days. 

 The Techmark 100 rose 55.77, reducing the decline over the week to 38.99, or 1.1 per cent. But it was most definitely a "new economy" day with those sectors rejoicing in the strong recovery of the techs and telecoms stocks in the US. 

 The "old economy" areas were not entirely shunned by investors but provided most of the stocks in the FTSE 100 losers' list. The performance of the tech stocks was all the more impressive given the 28 per cent slide in shares in Psion, the palm-top computer manufacturer, following a profit warning. 

 Psion was in the vanguard of the stunning advance by TMT (telecoms, media and technology) stocks during late 1999 and earlier this year, when the company was briefly elevated to FTSE 100 status. Reed International shares moved towards the top end of the FTSE 100 performance table after news of the $4.5bn acquisition of Harcourt General, the US textbook publisher. 

 And Bernard Matthews, the poultry and meat products group, which is the subject of a bid from the Matthews family, saw its shares race higher after Sara Lee of the US indicated its intention to counterbid. In its latest global asset allocation review, the strategy team at Deutsche Bank said: "It will not be an easy ride through the year-end as markets will be buffeted by rising oil prices, profit downgrades and wild swings in investor sentiment." 

Document irti000020010811dwas0155u




 TOPSY-TURVY TRADE PATTERN CONTINUES. 

 By REBECCA HOLMES. 
435 words
28 October 2000
Adelaide Advertiser
ADVTSR
59
English
(c) 2000 Advertiser Newspapers Limited

 Shares rise as $A dives 

 HEARTENED by Wall Street, the all ordinaries index finished the week on a firm note with turnover of more than $2.2 billion. Strength in News Corp and a revived resource sector offset losses by Telstra and the major banks in a day of mixed trading. 

 The all ordinaries index gained 5.4 points to 3195.7 to close the week almost unchanged on the previous Friday. 

 The Australian dollar was again gripped by selling fever in London during overnight trade. 

 The currency fell to an all-time low of 51.36c. The euro also hit record lows against the US dollar and the Japanese yen. 

 In local trade, the $A closed at US51.99c. 

 "It recovered very nicely this morning to be around 52.22c (high) and then throughout most of the day it traded in quite a tight range from 51.80c to 52c," Stephen Halmarick, strategist at Salomon Smith Barney, said. 

 "It's been a pretty quiet end to the day, but it still looks pretty vulnerable." 

 In the US overnight, the Dow Jones and Nasdaq regained ground as late bargain-hunting lifted blue-chip, telecommunication and technology stocks. 

 But in Tokyo, the Nikkei index plunged 276 points to a 19-month closing low of 14,582, depressed by market heavyweight Sony. 

 Salomon Smith Barney broker Alfred Caddick said there were "no big dramas" in the Australian market during the week. 

 "There has been quite good volume," Mr Caddick said. "The good stocks are in good shape. 

 "I expect we will soon see some money going into second-line stocks - the sort of stocks that have been a little lacklustre, such as MIM, Normandy, Newcrest and BHP." 

 The resource sector fared well yesterday with BHP gaining 20c to $18.58, Rio Tinto 63c to $25.63 and WMC 9c to $7.24. 

 News Corp rose for the first time since Monday with its ordinary shares adding 41c to $19.76 and the preferred scrip up 20c to $16.82. 

 Telstra shed 15c to $6.10, while rivals One.Tel and C&W Optus made minor gains. 

 "Our market initially recovered well after Wall Street's positive performance, but had a disappointing close," Dicksons client adviser Tony Catt said. 

 Among the losers, CI Technologies dived $1.83 to $4.25 after the company gave a warning that profit could be down about 30 per cent on last year. Keycorp lost 42c to $8.60. 

 Combined Communications Network debuted at 75c - a 10c premium to its offer price of 65c. 

Document advtsr0020010803dwas011xu




 Reed Elsevier pays 4.5 billion dollars in US strategic drive ATTENTION - ADDS quotes, share price, analyst comments /// 

586 words
27 October 2000
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 AMSTERDAM, Oct 27 (AFP) - The British-Dutch publishing giant Reed Elsevier took a major step in its restructuring strategy Friday, announcing the purchase of US educational publisher Harcourt General for 4.5 billion dollars (5.42 billion euros) in borrowed funds. 

 Reed Elsevier has already negotiated the re-sale of some of the Harcourt General assets. 

 Chief executive Crispen Davis, selected in September 1999 to turn the troubled group around, said the deal "transforms" Reed's position in the educational sector, particularly through its position in the fast-growing US market. 

 "This acquisition represents a major step forward in our strategy announced in February," Davies said. 

 "The Harcourt STM and Educational businesses are of outstanding quality in very attractive markets and the strategic fit is excellent." 

 In mid-afternoon London trading, Reed shares had soared by 7.4 percent to 622.5 pence. 

 The Reed Elsevier publishing empire, hit by serious problems in recent years and without a chief executive for around a year before Davis arrived, had said in February that it was investing 1.2 billion euros over three years to develop a key Internet strategy. 

 Crispen was hired from the insurance group Aegis, where he had managed a strong increase in profits. 

 Under his management, the company had also said in February it would cut 1,500 mostly-US jobs in a plan to save 270 million euros a year, and would sell non-core assets. 

 Under the deal on Friday, Reed Elsevier is paying 59 dollars per share for Harcourt General, a price which includes estimated debt of 1.2 billion dollars and liabilities of 300 million dollars. 

 Dutch analysts also reacted positively to the news. 

 "This acquisition will lead to a strong reinforcement of Reed Elsevier's market position," said Johan Rol of the Stroeve bank in Amsterdam. 

 "And its Internet potential in the years to come is enormous." 

 Reed Elsevier had already agreed to sell the higher education and professional service arms of Harcourt General to the Thomson group for 2.06 billion dollars, the company said. 

 The broader deal means an increase in the quality of Reed Elsevier's portfolio, as well as an increase in sales and operating profits, it added. 

 In 1999, sales came to 1.4 billion dollars, operating profit was 297 million dollars, and the group's net assets were worth 1.3 billion dollars, it added. 

 The Harcourt General board has recommended the Reed Elsevier offer unanimously, the company statement said. 

 Reed Elsevier said that the initial financing of the acquisition would be provided through new bank facilities totalling 6.5 billion dollars. 

 Repayment of the facilities would be made through the issue of bonds and by new shareholder capital. 

 In late February, Reed Elsevier reported that 1999 pre-tax profit had fallen by six percent to 1.079 billion euros, and issued a profitwarning for the current year. 

 It also outlined its major Internet investment strategy, with Crispen saying that "capitalising on the potential of the Internet will be a key driver of our strategy." 

 On Friday, Davis said: "The combination of Harcourt Education with Reed Educational and Professional Publishing is exceptionally well positioned to drive new print and electronic product programmes and to grow faster than the market." 

 "We have increasing confidence in our vision and our ability to execute the strategy successfully to create value for shareholders," he said. 

 jf/wai/djw 

Document afpr000020010803dwar04i4z




 Reed Elsevier pays 4.5 bln dlrs in US strategic drive ATTENTION - RECASTS, ADDS background /// 

439 words
27 October 2000
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 AMSTERDAM, Oct 27 (AFP) - The British-Dutch publishing giant Reed Elsevier took a major step in its restructuring strategy on Friday by announcing it is buying US educational publisher Harcourt General for 4.5 billion dollars (5.42 billion euros) in borrowed funds. 

 Reed Elsevier has already negotiated re-sale of some of the Harcourt General assets. 

 Chief executive Crispen Davis, selected in September 1999 to turn the troubled group around, said that the deal "transforms" Reed's position in the educational sector, particularly through "an excellent" position in the fast-growing US market. 

 The Reed Elsevier publishing empire, hit by serious problems in recent years and without a chief executive for around a year before Davis arrived, had already said in February that it was investing 1.2 billion euros over three years to develop its "key" Internet strategy. 

 Crispen was hired from the insurance group Aegis, where he had managed a strong increase in profits. 

 Under his management, the company had also said in February, that it would cut 1,500 jobs, mostly in the US, in a plan to save 270 million euros a year and would sell non-core assets. 

 Under the deal on Friday, Reed Elsevier is paying 59 dollars per share for Harcourt General, a price which includes estimated debt of 1.2 billion dollars and liabilities of 300 million dollars. 

 Reed Elsevier had already agreed to sell the further education and professional service arms of Harcourt General to the Thompson group for 2.06 billion dollars, it said. 

 The deal means an increase in the quality of Reed Elsevier's portfolio, as well as an increase in sales and operating profits, the company said. 

 In 1999, sales came to 1.4 billion dollars, operating profit was 297 million dollars, and the group's net assets were worth 1.3 billion dollars," it added. 

 The board of Harcourt General had recommended the Reed Elsevier offer unanimously, the company statement said. 

 Reed Elsevier said that the initial financing of the acquisition would be provided through new bank facilities totalling 6.5 billion dollars. 

 Repayment of the facilities would be made through the issue of bonds and by new shareholder capital. 

 In late February, Reed Elsevier reported that 1999 pre-tax profit had fallen by six percent to 1.079 billion euros, and issued a profitwarning for the current year. 

 It also announced its major Internet investment strategy, with Crispen saying that "capitalising on the potential of the Internet will be a key driver of our strategy." 

 jf/wai 

Document afpr000020010803dwar04htq




 BRIDGE TOP NEWS NoW - US stocks seen opening higher. 

952 words
27 October 2000
14:29
Futures World News
FWN
English
(c) Distributed via COMTEX News.

 Oct. 27-MAR- 

 Oct. 27-1324 GMT/0924 ET ................................................................. TOP STORIES: 

 US economy cools more sharply than expected Washington-Oct. 27-U.S. economic growth slowed markedly in the third quarter, shifting down to a 2.7% annual rate, the lowest in five quarters. Weaker inventory investment and a sharp drop in federal government outlays offset increases in consumer and capital spending. Growth undershot analysts' expectations of a 3.6% rise. Meanwhile, the consumer spending inflation gauge edged up 2.2%, after a 2.1% rise in the prior quarter, in line with forecasts. ( Story .4739 ) 

 Reed Elsevier to buy Harcourt for $5.65 billion Amsterdam-Oct. 27-Reed Elsevier PLC (GB;REED), the Anglo-Dutch publishing group, said it is buying U.S. publisher Harcourt General Inc. (H) for $5.65 billion in cash and assumed debt, a deal that will enhance Reed's position as the world's leading scientific information business and make it the world's number one medical publisher. Reed will sell on the higher education components of the Harcourt business to Canada's Thomson Corp. (CA;TOC) for $2.06 billion. ( Story .5962 ) 

 US stocks set to open slightly higher New York-Oct. 27-U.S. stocks are viewed moderately higher on the open as investors put earnings jitters aside, and as mutual fund tax-selling nears an end. Meanwhile, the U.S. economy cooled faster in the third quarter than most economists forecast. The Dow Jones industrial average is seen flat to 20 points higher. ( Story .1307 ) 

 Volkswagen 9-month earnings above maruet expectations Frankfurt-Oct. 27-German car manufacturer Volkswagen AG (DE;VOW) has posted nine-month figures mostly above market expectation, with a 13.9% increase in revenues to 125.39 billion Deutsche marks ($53.19 billion) on a rise in U.S. sales. Pretax profit rose 30.4% to 4.31 billion marks. VW said U.S. sales continued to grow, up 22.6%. The popularity of the Jetta, Passat and New Beetle models in the U.S. has been augmented by the strength of the dollar to bolster the group's figures. ( Story .5960 ) 

 Swiss Sulzer cancels merger after market resistance Zurich-Oct. 27-Sulzer AG (CH;SUL), the Swiss engineering and technology group, said it has bowed to market pressure and canceled plans to merge with Sulzer Medica AG, in which it is the majority shareholder. It said both companies have "acknowledged the critical assessment of this move by the capital markets and investors," adding it will continue with its plan to focus the group on medical devices, materials and surface technology, and new ventures. The markets reacted positively, with Sulzer's shares in Zurich gaining 6.3%, up 68 Swiss francs, to 1151 francs. ( Story .5961 ) 

 UK's Psion shares plunge after profit warning London-Oct. 27-U.K. handheld computer maker Psion PLC (GB;PON) was the latest company to fall victim to the weak euro, when it issued a profit warning. The company, whose sales are heavily weighted toward continental Europe, said the weak euro had reduced overall margins by around 4% in the first three quarters of 2000, compared to the same period last year. Psion's share price slumped in morning trade, and was l+-st down nearly 25.0%, or 140.0 pence, at 435.0 pence. ( Story .5963 ) 

 Sony shares tumble as doubts on profit margins spark foreign selling Tokyo-Oct. 27-Shares in consumer electronics giant Sony Corp. (JP;6758) plunged 7.5% on fears about production costs for the electronic and games maker and its ability to pare costs after the introduction of its hot selling PlayStation 2 computer game machine. Stagnant profit margins in Sony's game business confirmed at its earnings announcement sparked selling by overseas and local institutional investors, traders said. ( Story .5981 ) 

 Israeli army chief says Iraqi troops not a danger Jerusalem-Oct. 27-Israeli Army chief of staff General Shaul Mofaz said the recent Iraqi troop movements toward the Jordanian border "constitute neither a danger nor a menace to Israeli security, and in any case, the Iraqis know we will respond if we have to." The Israeli army earlier said it is ready to pull back its forces from flashpoint areas in the Palestinian territories if violence drops, but is bracing for a prolonged cycle of unrest and possible terror attacks. ( Story .13589 ) 

 ................................................................. OF INTEREST: 

 EU, China remove final hurdle to bilateral WTO accession deal Geneva/Brussels-Oct. 27-The European Union and China have made a breakthrough in talks designed to pave the way for Beijing's membership of the World Trade Organization, according to Antony Gooch, spokesman for EU Trade Commissioner Pascal Lamy. The deal removes the final EU obstacles to China's WTO accession by approving insurance license allocations, joint venture terms for car makers and retail distribution access to the Chinese market. ( Story .13787 ) 

 Dodging scandals, Japan's chief government spokesman resigns Tokyo-Oct. 27-Fending off a series of scandals that have embarrassed Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori, his closest aide and Japan's chief government spokesman, Hidenao Nakagawa, submitted his resignation Friday. Nakagawa, 56, said he was stepping down to take responsibility for a series of scandals that had caused parliamentary debate to stall and badly damaged the image of Mori's Cabinet. The second member of the Mori Cabinet to resign in four months, Nakagawa was speedily replaced by Yasuo Fukuda, a former Liberal Democratic Party deputy policy chief and one-time petroleum refining company executive. ( Story .5980 ) 

 ................................................................. Copyright 2000 Bridge Information Systems Inc. All rights reserved. 

 The bridge.com ID for this story is BLRZWYL 

 (c) Copyright 2000 FWN 

 . 

Document fwn0000020010808dwar003to




 BRIDGE TOP NEWS NOW - US stocks seen up. 

940 words
27 October 2000
13:59
Futures World News
FWN
English
(c) Distributed via COMTEX News.

 Oct. 27-MAR- 

  Oct. 27--1255 GMT/0855 ET 

 ................................................................. TOP STORIES: 

 US economy cools more sharply than expected Washington-Oct. 27-U.S. economic growth slowed markedly in the third quarter, shifting down to a 2.7% annual rate, the lowest in five quarters. Weaker inventory investment and a sharp drop in federal government outlays offset increases in consumer and capital spending. Growth undershot analysts' expectations of a 3.6% rise. Meanwhile, the consumer spending inflation gauge edged up 2.2%, after a 2.1% rise in the prior quarter, in line with forecasts. ( Story .4739 ) 

 US stocks set to open slightly up New York-Oct. 27-U.S. stocks are viewed moderately higher on the open as investors put earnings jitters aside, and as mutual fund tax-selling nears an end. Meanwhile, the U.S. economy cooled faster in the third quarter than most economists forecas1/4. The Dow Jones Industrial Average is seen flat to 20 points up. ( Story .1307 ) 

 Reed Elsevier buys Harcourt for $5.65 bln; sells assets to Thomson Amsterdam-Oct. 27-Reed Elsevier PLC (GB;REED), the Anglo-Dutch publishing group, said it is buying U.S. publisher Harcourt General Inc. (H) for $5.65 billion in cash and assumed debt, a deal that will enhance Reed's position as the world's leading scientific information business and make it the world's number one medical publisher. Reed will sell on the higher education components of the Harcourt business to Canada's Thomson Corp. (CA;TOC) for $2.06 billion. ( Story .5962 ) 

 Volkswagen nine-month earnings above market expectations Frankfurt-Oct. 27-German car manufacturer Volkswagen AG (DE;VOW) has posted nine-month figures mostly above market expectation, with a 13.9% increase in revenues to 125.39 billion Deutsche marks ($53.19 billion) on a rise in U.S. sales. Pretax profit rose 30.4% to 4.31 billion marks. VW said U.S. sales continued to grow, up 22.6%. The popularity of the Jetta, Passat and New Beetle models in the U.S. has been augmented by the strength of the dollar to bolster the group's figures. ( Story .5960 ) 

 Swiss Sulzer cancels merger after market resistance Zurich-Oct. 27-Sulzer AG (CH;SUL), the Swiss engineering and technology group, said it has bowed to market pressure and canceled plans to merge with Sulzer Medica AG, in which it is the majority shareholder. It said both companies have "acknowledged the critical assessment of this move by the capital markets and investors," adding it will continue with its plan to focus the group onmedical devices, materials and surface technology, and new ventures. The markets reacted positively, with Sulzer's shares in Zurich gaining 6.3% at the last, up 68 Swiss francs, to 1151 francs. ( Story .5961 ) 

 UK's Psion shares plunge after profit warning London-Oct. 27-U.K. handheld computer maker Psion PLC (GB;PON) was the latest company to fall victim to the weak euro, when it issued a profit warning. The company, whose sales are heavily weighted toward continental Europe, said the weak euro had reduced overall margins by around 4% in the first three quarters of 2000, compared to the same period last year. Psion's share price slumped in morning trade, and was last down nearly 25.0%, or 140.0 pence, at 435.0 pence. ( Story .5963 ) 

 Sony shares tumble as doubts on profit margins spark foreign selling 

 Tokyo-Oct. 27-Shares in consumer electronics giant Sony Corp. (JP;6758) plunged 7.5% on fears about production costs for the electronic and games maker and its ability to pare costs after the introduction of its hot selling PlayStation 2 computer game machine. Stagnant profit margins in Sony's game business confirmed at its earnings announcement sparked selling by overseas and local institutional investors, traders said. ( Story .5981 ) 

 Israeli army chief says Iraqi troops not a danger Jerusalem-Oct. 27-Israeli Army chief of staff General Shaul Mofaz said the recent Iraqi troop movements toward the Jordanian border "constitute neither a danger nor a menace to Israeli security, and in any case, the Iraqis know we will respond if we have to." The Israeli army earlier said it is ready to pull back ios forces from flashpoint areas in the Palestinian territories if violence drops, but is bracing for a prolonged cycle of unrest and possible terror attacks. ( Story .13589 ) 

 ................................................................. OF INTEREST: 

 EU, China remove final hurdle to bilateral WTO accession deal Geneva/Brussels-Oct. 27-The European Union and China have made a breakthrough in talks designed to pave the way for Beijing's membership of the World Trade Organization, according to Antony Gooch, spokesman for EU Trade Commissioner Pascal Lamy. The deal removes the final EU obstacles to China's WTO accession by approving insurance license allocations, joint venture terms for car makers and retail distribution access to the Chinese market. ( Story .13787 ) 

 Dodging scandals, Japan's chief government spokesman resigns Tokyo-Oct. 27-Fending off a series of scandals that have embarrassed Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori, his closest aide and Japan's chief government spokesman, Hidenao Nakagawa, submitted his resignation Friday. Nakagawa, 56, said he was stepping down to take responsibility for a series of scandals that had caused parliamentary debate to stall and badly damaged the image of Mori's Cabinet. The second member of the Mori Cabinet to resign in four months, Nakagawa was speedily replaced by Yasuo Fukuda, a former Liberal Democratic Party deputy policy chief and one-time petroleum refining company executive. ( Story .5980 ) 

 ................................................................. 

 More to follow... 

 (c) Copyright 2000 FWN 

 . 

Document fwn0000020010808dwar003tl




 EURO TALES OF THE TAPE: Backseat Chrysler Rescue Plan 

 By Beth Reigber 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
1,241 words
26 October 2000
15:23
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 STUTTGART, Germany -(Dow Jones)- DaimlerChrysler AG (DCX) third-quarter earnings Thursday confirm market fears: Daimler has a Chrysler problem, and there are lots of backseat drivers eager to tell Chairman Juergen Schrempp what to do. 

 Mr. Schrempp's challenge is formidable: Since acquiring Chrysler in 1998 for a pricey EUR36 billion, the U.S. auto maker has lost market share and Thursday posted a EUR579 million operating loss in the just-ended third quarter. 

 DaimlerChrysler says it expects Chrysler to turn a profit again in the fourth quarter, but many observers are skeptical. 

 It's a big drag on the German automotive powerhouse, and the market has punished Daimler's shares accordingly. Its share price has dropped nearly 30% in the last 12 months. 

 We asked some DaimlerChrysler watchers how they'd advise Mr. Schrempp as he goes about restoring the luster to his troublesome unit. 

 The market wants and needs to see synergies - those budget-slashing, profit-building effects that make mergers worthwhile, said one auto industry insider. 

 With the two car giants so different, "the synergies are limited. But they're there," he said. 

 It's a little late to start now, he added. "Now it looks more like a reaction." 

 But better late than never. 

 With Daimler talking about creating more components synergies between Mercedes and Chrysler, automotive consultants cautioned that reaping real cost savings with this approach will be difficult. 

 Peter Schmidt, of Auto Industry Data Ltd., who publishes an industry newsletter in the U.K., says Chrysler's got to diversify. 

 "Chrysler's unhealthy. It has a high dependence on just one market, the North American market," and its minivan, pickup and SUV sales, Schmidt said. 

 "Find something countercyclical," he said, praising Mercedes-Benz for its strengths in trucks and passenger cars. Beyond that, he sees DaimlerChrysler as a paragon of regional expansion, pointing to its moves into Asia with Hyundai (Q.HMC) and Mitsubishi (J.MIB). 

 But, "if done properly, it takes at least half a decade" to diversify, Schmidt would warn. So DaimlerChrysler needs to find some quick solutions fast. 

 For starters, Mercedes and Chrysler vehicles are quite different, so opportunities for substantial parts sharing - and thus cost savings - are scarce, says David Andrea, chief economist with consultants CSM Corp. in Detroit. 

 Moreover, the risk is that giving luxury Mercedes parts - transmissions, diesel engines and the like - to mid-range Chrysler vehicles could diminish Mercedes' upscale image. 

 "The European market is 180 degrees different from the U.S.," Andrea said. "It will be very difficult in terms of sticking to strong brand discipline and keeping costs down. You have to ask the question: are you optimizing or are you compromising?" 

 Cutting costs by sharing components might help perk up profits, he added, but it's "the launch of their new products that's crucial." 

 The powers at DaimlerChrysler must take care to "play off their strengths," he said. They must "integrate, combine capacities." 

 They should use Daimler's international strengths and Chrysler's North American strengths. That way the group can minimize the burn of regional downturns. 

 "That's why they came together," Andrea said. 

 One more note of caution from Andrea: "I hope they don't take actions as far as postponing progress," which could hurt their product lineup in the long term. 

 Indeed, many say the key to Chrysler's survival is its ability to return to its lineup's glory days, when budget-friendly yet exciting vehicles - particularly its sports utility vehicles, minivans and pick-up trucks - made it the leader of the pack in Detroit. 

 Schrempp, analysts say, needs to nudge Chrysler back to its original mission as the auto industry's design innovator. 

 "They have been the biggest player in the top three segments," says David Bradley, an analyst with J.P. Morgan, New York. But "the SUV market has gotten very crowded. The minivan market has, too. The dynamics are such that (Chrysler's profits) may never get back to historical levels." 

 As long as Chrysler outsold its competitors, controlling costs wasn't as crucial. But that's no longer true, and Daimler has to perform the difficult trick of giving Chrysler designers latitude to come up with exciting new cars -- and yet making sure they don't come up with vehicles that are too expensive to produce, Bradley says. 

 "Designers were king at Chrysler for a long time. They gave designers too much free reign," he says. "Designers tend to want to make very stylish things. They ended up being difficult to manufacture. The costs got to be too high." 

 That was all right, he noted, "as long as they monopolized the market." 

 But rounding up another designer dream team should be a long-term goal for the men in Stuttgart. "In the short term, they have to get costs down," he said. 

 Mostly, he sees relief from squeezing savings out of suppliers. "It's one way to get costs down quickly," he said. 

 Ron Harbour of Detroit-based consultants Harbour & Associates believes Chrysler needs to make more vehicles like its new PT Cruiser, a crossover vehicle with 1930s retro styling, that has proven wildly popular in North America. 

 "It's fun but also utilitarian, so it may regain middle-of-the-road loyalty," Harbour said. He thinks it's practical enough to beat the usual slump that hits sports cars sales after two years, when fun cars tend to lose their novelty with consumers. 

 But DaimlerChrysler has to solve a brain drain that has hit Chrysler in the past year or so, Harbour added. The most recent key Chrysler leaders to leave the company was head designer Thomas Gale, who announced his retirement in September following DaimlerChrysler's profitwarning. 

 The PT Cruiser "was designed and developed under that Chrysler team four years ago. It's the last product developed by the old regime," Harbour says. DaimlerChrysler doesn't seem troubled by the lost Chrysler leadership "but it has had and will have a big effect." 

 DaimlerChrysler should learn a lesson from Ford (F) and GM's (GM) European escapades, advises one European auto analyst in Germany. "The parent company mixed too much in the daily business." 

 Chrysler needs independence to shine and keep its best brains. 

 "Let Chrysler be Chrysler," the analyst advises. 

 Some Chrysler watchers think DaimlerChrysler has to focus on something even more fundamental than automotive design. They argue that Chrysler's downward spiral has its roots in the merger itself. The deal distracted the unit's management, and conflicting management styles and corporate culture clashes linger. 

 DaimlerChrysler must strive to make integration smooth so that it can concentrate on the numbers, they say. Merger issues are there, but it's the market that counts. 

 Should DaimlerChrysler just go ahead and dump Chrysler? No one is recommending such a drastic move at this point, though they suspect Mr. Schrempp might get rid of Chrysler if he can't fix it. 

 "If the share price falls (further), difficulties continue," the two might part, says a manager at a multinational car maker in Europe. "It's a gut feeling." 

 Peter Schmidt of AID also sees a Chrysler firesale, "If things go from bad to worse." 

 Company Web site: http://www.daimlerchrysler.com

 -By Beth Reigber, Dow Jones Newswires; 49-69-297-255-00; beth.reigber@dowjones.com 

Document dji0000020010805dwaq054vy


Newscast: Business news and stock report   

442 words
26 October 2000
CBS News: Morning News
CBSM
English
(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

DIANA OLICK, anchor:   

Another disappointing day on Wall Street--the Dow opens at 10,326, down 66 points.   

(Graphic on screen)   

DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS   

10,236.48   

down 66.59   

VOLUME: 1,315,640,000   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

OLICK: Tech stocks caused a NASDAQ slide to 3,229, down 190 points.   

(Graphic on screen)   

NASDAQ   

3,229.57   

down 190.22   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

OLICK: And in Tokyo overnight, the Nikkei gained a small fraction.   

(Graphic on screen)   

TOKYO NIKKEI AVERAGE   

14,840.47   

up 17.96   

CHANGE: up 0.12%   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

OLICK: On the CBS MarketWatch, more on the NASDAQ derailment. Alexis Christoforous has details.   

ALEXIS CHRISTOFOROUS reporting:   

The NASDAQ suffered its biggest loss since May, as investors took their money out of high-tech stocks and piled it into consumer stocks like banks and drugs. You can blame most of that on Nortel Networks. Shares of the fiber optics equipment maker plummeted after its sales numbers disappointed Wall Street.   

(Graphic on screen)   

NORTEL NETWORKS (NT)   

down 18.44   

to 44.88   

CHRISTOFOROUS: Well, that dragged down other companies in the fiber optics arena.  JDS Uniphase, which is also out with earnings this week, sank more than 25 percent. We had  Ciena down nearly 20 percent. Even Cisco Systems lost ground, down nearly 8 percent. Now there was a bright spot, though, and that was  Amazon.com, up nearly 8 percent after it reported less red ink than expected in the latest quarter.   

AT&T rang the warning bell. The telecom giant said fourth-quarter profit will miss the mark. It also rolled out its much-awaited plan to break up into four separate companies by the year 2002, all in an effort to lift its sagging stock price. But some analysts aren't convinced that a breakup is the answer to  AT&T's problems.   

Mr. NORMAN FUCHS (M.H. Myerson): I think what Wall Street is focused on is that  AT&T has spun off operations before. Most notably are Lucent and their wireless, both of which who've--have fared fairly poorly in this market. So if history seems to be the guide, then Wall Street's taking its cue from the historical events that  AT&T has already--has done.   

(Graphic on screen)   

AT&T (T)   

down 3.50   

to 23.38   

CHRISTOFOROUS: A number of investors bailed out of the stock.  AT&T lost more than $3 on the day.   

At the NASDAQ Marketsite, I'm Alexis Christoforous, CBS MarketWatch.   

OLICK: For the latest on the markets, click on cbs.marketwatch.com.   

Document CBSM000020070818dwaq002w8




 Viant, Agency.com, Modem Media Post Results After Tough Quarter 

615 words
25 October 2000
23:15
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 (Editor's note: The following story, which originally ran Oct. 25, was retransmitted Oct. 26 to correct Agency.com Inc.'s third-quarter results.) 

 NEW YORK -- Three Internet professional-services companies -- Viant Corp., Agency.com Inc. and Modem Media Inc. -- posted third-quarter results late Wednesday, bringing a close to a bruising quarter for the companies. 

 Viant, whose profit warning helped trigger a tumble in the sector last month, posted a net loss of $1.1 million, or two cents a diluted share, reversing year-earlier net income of $1.6 million, or three cents a share. Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial were expecting a loss of five cents a share. 

 Revenue at the Boston-based company rose 76% to $33.1 million from $18.8 million. 

 Viant shares tumbled 41% in one session last month after warning that earnings would badly miss estimates. That sent shares of other consulting firms into a tailspin, as investors guessed, correctly, that many of them would warn of weak results as well. 

 In general, demand for Web consulting softened over the summer because dot-com clients are running out of funds and established enterprises aren't as desperate to spend on Internet projects. 

 Viant said the company is taking steps to correct its "difficult" third quarter, planning a recovery program with short and long-term strategies. As part of the program, the company formed the Strategic Relationship Management group, which will provide resources to help convert key accounts into long-term relationships. 

 Agency.com 

 Also Wednesday, Agency.com, of New York, posted a loss of $39,000, or break-even on a per-share basis, compared with a pro forma loss of $7 million, or 25 cents a share, in the year-earlier quarter. (The pro forma results treat acquisitions made in 1999 and 2000 as if these transactions occurred on January 1, 1999.) 

 Excluding amortization of intangibles and noncash compensation, the company had a profit of $3.1 million, or seven cents a share, up from a $3.5 million loss, or 13 cents a share, in the year-earlier period. Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial were expecting a profit on this basis of six cents a share. 

 Revenue rose 90% to $57.3 million from $30.2 million a year earlier and was up 14% on a sequential basis from the second quarter. The company said it added 171 billable consultants in the quarter, increasing total billable consultants world-wide to 1,250. 

 Modem Media 

 Finally, Modem Media, of Norwalk, Conn., posted a net loss of $3.8 million, or 15 cents a diluted share, compared with a profit of $1.3 million, or six cents a share, in the year-ago period. 

 Excluding amortization of goodwill, the company had a profit of a penny a share, down from nine cents a share in the year-earlier period. Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial were expecting a loss of two cents a share on that basis. 

 Revenues rose 79% to $37.8 million from $21.1 million a year ago and advanced 15% sequentially from $32.8 million in the second quarter. 

 Modem Media said revenue from its top 10 accounts was reduced to 61% of total revenue from 63% in the second quarter. The company said General Motors was the only client accounting for more than 10% of revenue, at 10.4%. 

 Modem Media said it had 1,036 employees at the end of the third quarter of 2000, up from 963 at the end of the second quarter. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dwap01ngk




 Federal-Mogul's Miller -4: Six-Part Plan To Restore Co 

725 words
26 October 2000
00:09
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   In the meantime, Chief Executive Miller said Federal-Mogul has hired
an econometrics firm to ascertain the size of the liability and how
best to deal with it.



"We think it's prudent," Miller said. "Once we get the results in,
everyone can feel a lot more comfortable. We can deal with almost
anything if we know what it is."


 Miller has also said he has six initiatives to put the company back in good health. They include reorganizing the company's replacement parts businesses, consolidating North American distribution and institutionalizing an investment strategy. 

 Analysts haven't been nearly as optimistic about the initiatives, saying that many of the ideas were around before. Miller contends, however, that the initiatives weren't broadly used throughout the company and that he will work to apply them everywhere this time around. 

 For instance, he said lean manufacturing practices were used at some plants and but not all of them.. 

 Miller said he'll also work to have better communications with investors. One of the reasons the stock is so low is that Federal-Mogul didn't deliver on many of its promises -- quarter after quarter earnings came in below analysts' expectations, Miller said. 

 "My theory is to promise less and deliver more," Miller said. "We are going to give a lot less forward guidance and go on a track record of delivering results." 

 Federal-Mogul went on a buying spree in 1998 and is now suffering from acquisition indigestion. The company spent $4.9 billion to buy companies such as Cooper Industries Inc.'s (CBE) replacement auto-parts unit and T&N PLC. 

 About a year later the company issued a profit warning citing a declining replacement parts market. Observers say it was a mistake to invest heavily in the replacement parts market just as cars and trucks began lasting longer. Analysts say Federal-Mogul didn't get the return on the deals that they expected. 

 Several disappointing quarters followed and last month Richard Snell resigned as chief executive, resigned. Miller, who has been on Federal-Mogul's board since 1993, became the interim chief executive. 

 "Dick (Snell) was the right person for the time that we hired him," Miller said. "But things didn't work so well when he got to the integration stage of managing the acquisitions." 

 Miller said the company is looking both "inside and outside" the company for chief executive candidates and he said that Federal-Mogul is looking for someone with a good operations background. 

 Despite speculation that it may be hard for the company to find a chief executive given the bankruptcy controversy, Miller said the company has "choices to make," and could hire a chief executive by Christmas. 

 It's likely that Federal-Mogul won't see a turnaround until 2002, said Miller. He has already said he expects the fourth quarter to be rough, and 2001 won't be a "glorious year" because the company will begin bearing the costs of the initiatives. 

 He didn't elaborate on what those costs would be. 

 Miller said the company is not looking to do more acquisitions and he reiterated that the company is not looking for a buyer. 

 It's likely that there will be some plant consolidation in the quarters ahead, but he said the company is not looking at any mass layoffs. A lot of the job cuts will be made through attrition, he said. 

 Some analysts say they are supportive of Miller's plans to reverse the company's condition, but remain wary about its future. 

 "I lean in his (Miller's) direction," said Charles Brady, an analyst with Credit Lyonnais Securities. "In terms of the covenant violations, it's not a non-issue, but I agree that a good relationship with the bank group can allow the covenants to be reworked or adjusted." 

 Deutsche Banc's Blaschke said Federal-Mogul has a "reasonable shot" at amending the covenants, but the company still may not be able to dodge bankruptcy. 

 "My sense is that even if they do renegotiate, they'll have to sell significant assets to pay down debt," Blaschke said. "Then there's a possibility of an economic downturn before 2004. So we remain concerned about bankruptcy." 

 -Jocelyn Parker, Dow Jones Newswires; 313-963-7800 

Document dj00000020010805dwap04333


Newscast: Business news and stock report   

384 words
25 October 2000
CBS News: Morning News
CBSM
English
(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

DIANA OLICK, anchor:   

It was a mixed day on Wall Street, with another healthy increase for blue chips.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Dow Jones Industrials   

10,393.07   

up 121.35   

Volume: 1,158,660,000   

CBS.MARKETWATCH.COM   

OLICK: The Dow opens at 10,393, up 121 points.   

(Graphic on screen)   

NASDAQ   

3,419.79   

down 48.90   

CBS.MARKETWATCH.COM   

OLICK: The NASDAQ slumped to 3,419, down about 49.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Tokyo Nikkei Average   

14,840.47   

down 307.72   

Change: down 2.03%   

CBS.MARKETWATCH.COM   

OLICK: In Tokyo overnight, the Nikkei index lost 307 points.   

On the CBS MarketWatch, profit warnings before and after the bell. Alexis Christoforous has details.   

ALEXIS CHRISTOFOROUS reporting:   

It was a tale of two markets on Wall Street. The Dow made it four winning days in a row, but the NASDAQ was stuck in the red as computer chip stocks hit the skids thanks to a profit warning from  National Semiconductor.

Meantime, the troubles continue for Xerox. The copier giant reported more red ink than expected in the third quarter. It also unveiled a turnaround plan which includes an unspecified number of job cuts.   

There was a lot of after-the-bell action.  Amazon.com said it lost less money than expected in the third quarter. The online retailing giant lost 25 cents a share when the Street was expecting a loss of 33 cents. Amazon also added over two million new customers in the third quarter.   

Compaq Computer saw third-quarter profit more than quadruple to 30 cents a share as sales soared. But the big mover Wednesday is sure to be Nortel Networks. The fiber-optics giant said profit beat the Street, but revenue disappointed. Investors reacted swiftly, and Nortel fell more than $15 in after-hours trading.   

And  AT&T is expected to formally announce a four-way breakup Wednesday. That plan would include spinning off its cable TV and wireless operations into two separate companies. At the NASDAQ MarketSite, I'm Alexis Christoforous, CBS MarketWatch.   

OLICK: For the latest on the markets, click on cbs.marketwatch.com.   

Straight ahead on the MORNING NEWS, your Wednesday morning weather. And in sports, Benny Agbayani, the Mets hero, in game three of the Subway Series.   

(Announcements)   

Document CBSM000020070818dwap002vq


Newscast: Stock report   

153 words
25 October 2000
Minnesota Public Radio: Marketplace Morning Report
MKMR
English
(c) Copyright 2000, Minnesota Public Radio. All Rights Reserved.   

CHERYL GLASER, anchor:   

Concern about computer chip sales has high-tech stocks running for cover. A profit warning from  National Semiconductor helped dragged the NASDAQ down 1.4 percent yesterday. But a rally in financial and consumer product stocks lifted the Dow Jones industrial average 121 points, or almost 1.2 percent, to close at 10,393. The S&P 500 settled for a gain of about two-tenths of a percent.   

And  AT&T is taking a plunge. The telecommunications giant has confirmed it's splitting into a family of four companies: wireless, broadband cable TV, consumer telephone service and business phone service. The overhaul is  AT&T's biggest since the birth of the Baby Bells in 1984. Ma Bell expects restructuring will be completed by 2002, by which time each of the four companies will have its own separately traded stock.   

This is MARKETPLACE.   

Document MKMR000020070820dwap002lx


Newscast: Stock report   

62 words
25 October 2000
Minnesota Public Radio: Marketplace Morning Report
MKMR
English
(c) Copyright 2000, Minnesota Public Radio. All Rights Reserved.   

CHERYL GLASER, anchor:   

Concern about conch--computer chips sales has high-tech stocks running for cover on Wall Street. A profit warning from the chipmaker  National Semiconductor has--dragged the NASDAQ down 1.4 percent yesterday. But the Dow Jones industrial average managed to gain 121 points, or 1.2 percent, to close at 10,393. This is MARKETPLACE.   

Document MKMR000020070820dwap002ls




A
Group forms to head off initiatives Process out of control, say Reps. Lee, Paschall

Denver Post Capitol Bureau   
265 words
24 October 2000
The Denver Post
DNVR
TUE1
A-08
English
Copyright © 2000 The Denver Post Corp. Distributed by NewsBank, Inc.   

Two Jefferson County lawmakers are warning Coloradans to be very careful before they sign and vote for constitutional amendments, and they've started a not-for-profit foundation to make their point.

Republican Reps. Don Lee of Littleton and Mark Paschall of Arvada said their group, "Respect Our Constitution," will mail pamphlets this week to 162,000 absentee-voting households in the Denver metro area, urging voters to "Read the fine print! Ask yourself, does this belong in our state constitution?"

Much of what has been proposed over the years does not, they argued.

"The process is under assault," Paschall said. "The last 10 years, things have gotten out of control," Lee said.

While declining to say who their own contributors are - "It's up to them to say," Lee said - the two lawmakers warned that the state's initiative process is subject to abuse by "outside special interests."

"They sell their snake oil ... then they leave us to deal with the consequences," Paschall said.

Colorado is one of 24 states that allow citizens to put constitutional amendments on the ballot by petition.

It ranks third, behind Oregon and then California, in the number of ballot initiatives, Paschall and Lee said. Four of the six initiatives on the Nov. 7 ballot are constitutional amendments.

With 175 amendments offered since the initiative process was formalized 90 years ago, the state now has the ninth-longest constitution in the country, at 45,679 words, Lee and Paschall said.

Document DNVR000020150821dwao016yr




Inside Briefcase
BUSINESS
TICKETMASTER ONLINE CONSIDERING PURCHASE OF TICKETMASTER 

From wire reports 
979 words
24 October 2000
The Oregonian
POR
English
© 2000 Oregonian Publishing Company.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.  All rights reserved.  

USA Networks Inc. said it may have its Ticketmaster Online- CitySearch Inc. unit buy fellow USA Networks subsidiary Ticketmaster Corp., the No. 1 U.S. ticket agency. 

Shares of Ticketmaster Online, a publicly traded Internet ticket seller based in Pasadena, Calif., rose $2, or about 16 percent, to $14.63 in Monday's trading. 

USA Networks owns all of Ticketmaster as well as 49 percent of the stock -- and 84 percent voting control -- of Ticketmaster Online. The New York-based parent company disclosed that it has a plan for the online ticket agency to buy its offline counterpart in a Schedule 13D filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission Monday. 

Nabisco Group settles with shareholders who felt shorted 

WILMINGTON, Del. -- Nabisco Group Holdings Corp., which owns a majority of cookie and cracker maker Nabisco Holdings Corp., says it tentatively settled lawsuits with shareholders who claimed they wouldn't get enough money in a planned $9.8 billion sale to R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holdings Inc. 

Parsippany, New Jersey-based Nabisco Group said in June it would be bought by Winston Salem, N.C.-based R.J. Reynolds for $30 per share. In a separate transaction, New York-based Philip Morris Cos. said it would buy Nabisco Holdings for $18.9 billion, or $55 a share and assumed debt. 

Nabisco Group Holdings stock owners contended directors were violating their legal duties by not trying to get the best price for shareholders and by agreeing to sell its sole asset to Philip Morris for a higher price. 

Bridgestone/Firestone reaches first tire death settlement 

RIO GRANDE CITY, Texas -- Relatives of a Texas couple who died after a tire blew out on their sport-utility vehicle have reached a verbal settlement with Bridgestone/Firestone Inc. in the first product liability lawsuit scheduled for trial since the company's August tire recall. 

Details of the settlement were not disclosed. 

Ryan Anthony Guillen, 21, and his sister, Kimberly Guillen, 18, sued the tire manufacturer last November after their mother and stepfather were killed when their Ford Explorer crashed May 30, 1999. Nidia and Patricio Leal died when a Firestone tire unraveled, police said, sending the vehicle skidding into a ditch in South Texas. 

Lucent fires top executive after another profit warning

Lucent Technologies fired its top executive Monday after a series of financial disappointments that have seen its stock lose nearly three-quarters of its value in the past year. 

The move came after Lucent, the second-most widely held stock, warned for the fourth time this year that profits will be weak. 

Richard McGinn will be replaced as chairman and chief executive by Henry Schacht, a former chairman who will lead the CEO search. 

Lucent said Monday that fiscal fourth-quarter earnings came in just ahead of sharply lowered expectations. 

For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2000, Lucent posted an operating profit of $600 million, or 18 cents a share, compared with a profit of $768 million, or 24 cents a share, in the same quarter of last year. 

Fourth-quarter sales increased 14.5 percent to $9.36 billion. 

The results beat the consensus forecast of analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial by a penny, but those expectations were sharply lowered 12 days ago when the company warned of slower sales at its optical systems business and increased reserves to cover bad debt. 

World computer shipments less than expected for quarter 

SAN JOSE, Calif. -- Worldwide personal-computer shipments rose less than expected during the third quarter and orders by companies replacing older models won't rise significantly until next year, Dataquest Inc. said. 

Shipments rose 15.2 percent from a year ago to 33.9 million units, less than the 17 percent growth predicted, Dataquest analyst Charles Smulders said. Another researcher, IDC, reported third-quarter growth of 18 percent to 33.3 million units, in line with its forecast. 

The "relatively strong" third-quarter results suggest that some vendors built up inventory, making for a likely rough fourth quarter, Smulders said. The market can't support that level of growth now and price cuts may be looming as companies try to boost demand, he said. Though consumer sales may rise in the December period, corporate purchases will be delayed until 2001, he said. 

Honeywell stock price improves on news of merger with GE 

NEW YORK -- In the first merger between companies in the 30-stock Dow Jones industrial average in decades, General Electric Co. will acquire avionics maker Honeywell International Inc. for $45 billion and an unspecified amount of assumed debt. 

Shareholders at Honeywell, based in Morristown, N.J., will receive 1.055 shares of GE stock in exchange for one Honeywell share. Shares in Honeywell closed up $2.75 to $49.75 on Monday. GE shares fell $2.52 to close at $49.98 on the New York Stock Exchange. 

Sotheby's, Christie's tell judge that deal is 48 hours away 

NEW YORK -- Lawyers for Christie's International Plc and Sotheby's Holdings Inc. said Monday that a reported $512 million settlement of civil antitrust suits against the two leading auction houses will be delivered to the judge in 48 hours. 

At a hearing Monday in federal court in Manhattan, Richard Drubel, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, told U.S. District Judge Lewis Kaplan, "The consensus among the lawyers on this is we're within 48 hours of completing this, but we have not completed this yet." 

New York-based Sotheby's and London-based Christie's said last month that they had agreed to pay a total of $512 million to settle civil antitrust suits on behalf of clients in the United States and Sotheby's stockholders. But Kaplan last week questioned whether the pact had broken down because he hadn't received the settlement papers.  

Document por0000020010812dwao01tyt




Business
Safe plays rule quiet trading day

152 words
24 October 2000
Boston Herald
BHLD
ALL
44
English
Copyright © 2000 Boston Herald, All rights reserved.  Distributed by NewsBank, Inc.   

NEW YORK -- Blue chip stocks moved higher yesterday but technology issues lagged in one of Wall Street's quietest sessions in recent weeks.

Investors were uninspired by news of the $48 billion deal General Electric engineered to take over Honeywell. Even Lucent Technologies failed to move investors, despite a fourth profit warning and the dismissal of its top executive.

The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 45.13 at 10,271.72, after a 133-point morning rally fizzled. The Nasdaq composite index fell 14.45 to 3,468.69. The Standard & Poor's 500 fell 1.15 to 1,395.78.

"The market is pausing for a breath after its big recovery Wednesday and rallies on Thursday and Friday," said Dick Dickson, a Scott & Stringellow Inc. analyst. "Frankly, I'm surprised the market's not off more than it is." - HERALD STAFF

Document BHLD000020110827dwao00uxa




 SMARTMONEY.COM: A New McGinning? 

 By Cintra Scott 
1,117 words
23 October 2000
22:56
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Talk about a bad year. When Lucent (LU) warned investors two weeks ago that its fiscal 2000 (ended Sept. 30) was looking worse than expected, it was clear that the company had gone from the sublime to the ridiculous. 

 Monday, it went from the ridiculous to the abysmal. 

 Early Monday morning, the telecom-equipment maker lowered guidance for its current quarter, which ends Dec. 31. Where the Street had been expecting earnings per share of 23 cents, Lucent now sees zero. Yes, zero. 

 The break-even forecast was the final straw for Lucent Chief Executive and Chairman Richard McGinn. Over the weekend, Lucent's board "determined that an immediate change in leadership was necessary," according to a press release. Henry Schacht, who was Lucent's CEO and chairman from 1995 to 1997, is returning to the post. But no one expects him to stay long; Lucent also announced that it's initiating a search for Schacht's successor. 

 After the market closed on Monday, Lucent reported fiscal fourth quarter earnings of $600 million, or 18 cents a share, compared with $768 million, or 24 cents a share, a year ago. While its profits are falling, revenues grew almost 15%, to $9.4 billion. These results are in line with the Oct. 10 warning, when Lucent announced that the quarter's earnings looked lower than its previously announced guidance. 

 There could be more news to report soon. A conference call hosted by Schacht and the new Chief Financial Officer Debby Hopkins began at 5:00 p.m. Monday. This call had been scheduled for Tuesday, but you can bet Wall Street's analysts are rearranging their schedules to tune in. After its latest profit warning, Lucent has a lot of explaining to do. 

 "Our issues are ones of execution and focus," said new CEO Schacht in the press release Monday. Schacht also said he's looking forward to working with Lucent management on a turnaround. "I have seen Lucent's people accomplish incredible feats before, and I know we are up to this challenge." 

 Indeed, a turnaround would be an incredible feat - considering how far Lucent has fallen. Lucent's sizable circuit-switching business has been shrinking, but that decline was supposed to be offset by its growing optical-networking opportunities. Needless to say it hasn't worked out as planned. 

 "They stumbled [with optical networking product OC 192]...and that just exacerbated the decline in the circuit-switching business," says David Heger, of AG Edwards. Now, Lucent investors are looking at their second straight year of earnings' declines. For the first fiscal quarter 2001 (which ends Dec. 31), revenue is expected to decline 7% while earnings are expected to amount to nothing. That zero compares with 2000's 33 cents a share, and 1999's 49 cents a share. This, during perhaps the biggest boom the telecom industry has ever seen. 

 For the remainder of fiscal 2001, Lucent expects "sequential improvement in results from operations each quarter." But after three warnings so far this year, the company has to prove that its projections are worth listening to. 

 Heger says he wasn't surprised by McGinn's resignation - only that it didn't happen sooner. "They need someone like Gerstner," the analyst says, referring to IBM's (IBM) CEO Lou Gerstner, who's credited with turning the ailing computer giant around. In Heger's view, Lucent will want someone who has experience orchestrating a turnaround. "It's like IBM in the early '90s...they were a powerhouse in their industry, the industry changed a lot, and then they needed someone from the outside, someone with a fresh point of view," says Heger. He hopes Lucent will try to find its Gerstner as quickly as possible. 

 But analyst Tom Lauria at ING Barings isn't going to hold his breath for a new CEO. "I've spoken to the company about this, [and] nothing's imminent," he reports. Lauria thinks it could take four to six months to pick the new CEO and then another six months for the new CEO to take charge of Lucent. "There are a lot of operational issues," he says - with some authority. After all, Lauria was Lucent's director of investor relations before joining ING Barings as an analyst in June. "If there was an easy fit [for the job], Lucent would have announced it by now," he adds. 

 While Lauria isn't surprised about the change in management - he was very aware of mounting pressure from inside to oust McGinn - he is surprised that Schacht was selected. "Lucent needs someone from the industry, someone who's been in telecom his whole career," he thinks. Schacht was the CEO of diesel-engine maker Cummins Engine for 31 years before heading to Lucent in 1995. That's far from the telecom patch. 

 "The critical issue is leadership," says Larry Harris, of Josephthal. With an interim CEO at the helm, Harris doesn't anticipate a quick turnaround. "They are showing that action is being taken [with McGinn's resignation]...but bringing in the right leader is crucial." 

 While Lucent is flailing, its competitors in optical networking - like Nortel Networks (NT) and Ciena (CIEN) - are posting record-breaking results. Even as some forecast a telecom-spending slowdown, analysts and Lucent's own board of directors agree: Most of Lucent's woes are to be blamed on Lucent, not wider industry trends. As it gets its act together in the coming months, Lucent will also prepare for the spin-off of its microelectronics unit - which includes its optical-networking business - in the second half of fiscal 2001. In addition, the company plans to sell its power business. 

 With a $3.3 billion market cap, Lucent's core switching business is currently worth little to investors, analysts say. ING Baring's Lauria thinks Lucent's new CEO should consider breaking the company up further. "You see very few customers use Lucent for optical products and wireless and switching and access," he notes. Lauria thinks management could better focus on customers if the businesses were separate. "That would also help their ability to forecast," he adds. Clearly, forecasting wasn't one of McGinn's strong points. 

 "Considering how widely held Lucent shares are, its problems are affecting a lot of investors," says AG Edwards' Heger. But, on the flip side, because Lucent is a household name, Heger is hopeful it will be able to attract a CEO up to its turnaround challenge. 

 And what a challenge it will be. 

 For more information and analysis of companies and mutual funds, visit SmartMoney.com at http://www.smartmoney.com/

Document dj00000020010805dwan040a1




 MARKET TALK: Dec. Nasdaq Extending Losses 

973 words
23 October 2000
14:45
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)


 9:46 (Dow Jones) Dec. Nasdaq is extending losses as contract heads to overnight lows. Floor trader sees support at the electronic trade low of 3450, with further support at 3420. Resistance seen around 3525. He says Dec. Nasdaq isn't quite finished with its weakness, suggesting the rest of Oct. will be key for the contract's direction in the end of the year. (DMC) 

 9:41 (Dow Jones) Medical-device analysts are trying to read the tea leaves about the future of the stent market following big medical conference in Washington. SG Cowen analysts Matt Dodds and Scott Wilkin say Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) and Medtronic (MDT) are in a better position going into 2001 than Guidant (GDT) and Boston Scientific (BSX). (RJH) 

 9:39 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude futures are expected to open unchanged to 10 cents a barrel higher, on follow through from Fri.'s sharp gains. Comments by OPEC President and Energy Secretary Bill Richardson that the producer group could increase output by 500,000 b/d later this month as the price-band mechanism is triggered are seen bearish for Dec. crude. The mechanism calls for the increase after the OPEC basket price holds above $28/bbl for more than 20 days. Fri. was Day 15. (MXF) 

 9:32 (Dow Jones) Dec. S&Ps and Nasdaq are weaker in early trade, finding selling pressure after a weaker overnight trade. Focus for markets are on earnings, technicals and oil prices. Floor trader says markets have a little more downside for the short-term, but doesn't see a big sell off. (DMC) 

 9:23 (Dow Jones) (Dow Jones) Why can't Nasdaq rally to 4500 or 5000? Arnhold's John Roque gives four reasons: Internet stocks would have to revisit performance of late '99/early '00, not enough tech names have have made trading bases, oil has yet to correct, and the Fed isn't likely to start easing anytime soon. (TG) 

 9:13 (Dow Jones) Richard McGinn is out as Lucent's (LU) chairman and chief executive; Henry Schacht returns to those positions he held with the company from 1995 to 1997. Lucent is also lowering guidance for first quarter numbers and has moved up the release for its fourth quarter earnings to the close today. Stock off 5% in pre-market trading. (LF) 

 9:11 (Dow Jones) Does Jack Welch's now-delayed retirement say something about General Electric's (GE) management depth? Welch has been saying for months that GE will be just fine without him, given the strong executive team he's put in place. Yet, with the Honeywell (HON) deal, he's now saying he'll stick around to see things through. (RJH) 

 9:07 (Dow Jones) Merrill's chief economist Bruce Steinberg says no reason to alter GDP growth expectation of 4% next year, and that S&P 500 operating earnings will increase 10%. Sees slowdown in 2001 capital spending to 13% from around 16% in 2000. "Our view is that the risk of recession is small," he says. "The U.S. economy is healthy, though slowing." (TG) 

 9:00 (Dow Jones) Chase H&Q analysts are looking for eSpeed (ESPD) to post strong 3Q earnings. They estimate earnings of $27.1 million, with an EPS of $0.25. ESpeed holds a conference call Tuesday morning, which should include an update on its progress outside the Treasury trading sphere. (MSD) 

 8:52 (Dow Jones) Whatever Jack Welch wants Jack Welch gets. And in this case arguably the most respected CEO in corporate America wanted Honeywell International (HON) and he got it, outbidding United Technologies (UTX) with a $45 billion, 11th-hour bid. As part of the deal, the biggest in GE's history, Welch will stay on longer as CEO to oversee the integration, which should be challenging even for the great Welch. (CCW) 

 8:44 (Dow Jones) USD/JPY continues to fall sharply on rumors of another Japanese insurance company failure. USD/JPY is at Y108.53. (CSE) 

 8:41 (Dow Jones) PaineWebber's Kerschner says onset of fair disclosure seems to prompt fair warning. "Coming and going, analysts tend to be late," he says, "still downgrading months after market bottoms and still upgrading months after market tops." Typically, analysts' ratings turn 13 weeks after market bottom/tops, and after market has moved 23%, he says. (TG) 

 8:36 (Dow Jones) Treasurys have so far done little this session and are flat on the day, with the 10-year stuck at a 5.63% yield. With little data to watch, stock trading will likely dominate again. However, just because stocks do well does not mean bonds suffer, given Treasurys' very defensive stance. (MSD) 

 8:35 (Dow Jones) Trade in IPE Brent is nervous with many traders confused by the way the market has been reacting to the Mideast situation, say brokers. "We're nervous about what the Middle East will still bring," says one, but notes that last week most Mideast headlines were ignored. (SMF) 

 8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks poised to open modestly lower. The Nasdaq Composite ended its six-week weekly losing streak with a 5% gain last week. Investors showed renewed appetite for big tech after some key companies posted decent results and didn't forecast trouble. But Monday's action is more likely to be focused on components of the DJIA, with General Electric (GE) and AT&T (T) in the spotlight, along with earnings from American Express (AXP), Minnesota Mining (MMM), and SBC Communications (SBC). Amazingly, there's another profit warning from Lucent (LU), along with the exit of chairman McGinn. Employment cost index Thursday and GDP Friday. (TG) 

80000

Document dj00000020010805dwan03zs9




 MARKET TALK: Cowen Talks About Medical-Device  Companies. 

909 words
23 October 2000
14:43
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)


 9:41 (Dow Jones) Medical-device analysts are trying to read the tea leaves about the future of the stent market following big medical conference in Washington. SG Cowen analysts Matt Dodds and Scott Wilkin say Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) and Medtronic (MDT) are in a better position going into 2001 than Guidant (GDT) and Boston Scientific (BSX). (RJH) 

 9:39 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude futures are expected to open unchanged to 10 cents a barrel higher, on follow through from Fri.'s sharp gains. Comments by OPEC President and Energy Secretary Bill Richardson that the producer group could increase output by 500,000 b/d later this month as the price-band mechanism is triggered are seen bearish for Dec. crude. The mechanism calls for the increase after the OPEC basket price holds above $28/bbl for more than 20 days. Fri. was Day 15. (MXF) 

 9:32 (Dow Jones) Dec. S&Ps and Nasdaq are weaker in early trade, finding selling pressure after a weaker overnight trade. Focus for markets are on earnings, technicals and oil prices. Floor trader says markets have a little more downside for the short-term, but doesn't see a big sell off. (DMC) 

 9:23 (Dow Jones) (Dow Jones) Why can't Nasdaq rally to 4500 or 5000? Arnhold's John Roque gives four reasons: Internet stocks would have to revisit performance of late '99/early '00, not enough tech names have have made trading bases, oil has yet to correct, and the Fed isn't likely to start easing anytime soon. (TG) 

 9:13 (Dow Jones) Richard McGinn is out as Lucent's (LU) chairman and chief executive; Henry Schacht returns to those positions he held with the company from 1995 to 1997. Lucent is also lowering guidance for first quarter numbers and has moved up the release for its fourth quarter earnings to the close today. Stock off 5% in pre-market trading. (LF) 

 9:11 (Dow Jones) Does Jack Welch's now-delayed retirement say something about General Electric's (GE) management depth? Welch has been saying for months that GE will be just fine without him, given the strong executive team he's put in place. Yet, with the Honeywell (HON) deal, he's now saying he'll stick around to see things through. (RJH) 

 9:07 (Dow Jones) Merrill's chief economist Bruce Steinberg says no reason to alter GDP growth expectation of 4% next year, and that S&P 500 operating earnings will increase 10%. Sees slowdown in 2001 capital spending to 13% from around 16% in 2000. "Our view is that the risk of recession is small," he says. "The U.S. economy is healthy, though slowing." (TG) 

 9:00 (Dow Jones) Chase H&Q analysts are looking for eSpeed (ESPD) to post strong 3Q earnings. They estimate earnings of $27.1 million, with an EPS of $0.25. ESpeed holds a conference call Tuesday morning, which should include an update on its progress outside the Treasury trading sphere. (MSD) 

 8:52 (Dow Jones) Whatever Jack Welch wants Jack Welch gets. And in this case arguably the most respected CEO in corporate America wanted Honeywell International (HON) and he got it, outbidding United Technologies (UTX) with a $45 billion, 11th-hour bid. As part of the deal, the biggest in GE's history, Welch will stay on longer as CEO to oversee the integration, which should be challenging even for the great Welch. (CCW) 

 8:44 (Dow Jones) USD/JPY continues to fall sharply on rumors of another Japanese insurance company failure. USD/JPY is at Y108.53. (CSE) 

 8:41 (Dow Jones) PaineWebber's Kerschner says onset of fair disclosure seems to prompt fair warning. "Coming and going, analysts tend to be late," he says, "still downgrading months after market bottoms and still upgrading months after market tops." Typically, analysts' ratings turn 13 weeks after market bottom/tops, and after market has moved 23%, he says. (TG) 

 8:36 (Dow Jones) Treasurys have so far done little this session and are flat on the day, with the 10-year stuck at a 5.63% yield. With little data to watch, stock trading will likely dominate again. However, just because stocks do well does not mean bonds suffer, given Treasurys' very defensive stance. (MSD) 

 8:35 (Dow Jones) Trade in IPE Brent is nervous with many traders confused by the way the market has been reacting to the Mideast situation, say brokers. "We're nervous about what the Middle East will still bring," says one, but notes that last week most Mideast headlines were ignored. (SMF) 

 8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks poised to open modestly lower. The Nasdaq Composite ended its six-week weekly losing streak with a 5% gain last week. Investors showed renewed appetite for big tech after some key companies posted decent results and didn't forecast trouble. But Monday's action is more likely to be focused on components of the DJIA, with General Electric (GE) and AT&T (T) in the spotlight, along with earnings from American Express (AXP), Minnesota Mining (MMM), and SBC Communications (SBC). Amazingly, there's another profit warning from Lucent (LU), along with the exit of chairman McGinn. Employment cost index Thursday and GDP Friday. (TG) 

80000

Document dj00000020010805dwan03zs7




 MARKET TALK: Nymex Crude Futures Open Seen Flat 

850 words
23 October 2000
14:40
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)


 9:39 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude futures are expected to open unchanged to 10 cents a barrel higher, on follow through from Fri.'s sharp gains. Comments by OPEC President and Energy Secretary Bill Richardson that the producer group could increase output by 500,000 b/d later this month as the price-band mechanism is triggered are seen bearish for Dec. crude. The mechanism calls for the increase after the OPEC basket price holds above $28/bbl for more than 20 days. Fri. was Day 15. (MXF) 

 9:32 (Dow Jones) Dec. S&Ps and Nasdaq are weaker in early trade, finding selling pressure after a weaker overnight trade. Focus for markets are on earnings, technicals and oil prices. Floor trader says markets have a little more downside for the short-term, but doesn't see a big sell off. (DMC) 

 9:23 (Dow Jones) (Dow Jones) Why can't Nasdaq rally to 4500 or 5000? Arnhold's John Roque gives four reasons: Internet stocks would have to revisit performance of late '99/early '00, not enough tech names have have made trading bases, oil has yet to correct, and the Fed isn't likely to start easing anytime soon. (TG) 

 9:13 (Dow Jones) Richard McGinn is out as Lucent's (LU) chairman and chief executive; Henry Schacht returns to those positions he held with the company from 1995 to 1997. Lucent is also lowering guidance for first quarter numbers and has moved up the release for its fourth quarter earnings to the close today. Stock off 5% in pre-market trading. (LF) 

 9:11 (Dow Jones) Does Jack Welch's now-delayed retirement say something about General Electric's (GE) management depth? Welch has been saying for months that GE will be just fine without him, given the strong executive team he's put in place. Yet, with the Honeywell (HON) deal, he's now saying he'll stick around to see things through. (RJH) 

 9:07 (Dow Jones) Merrill's chief economist Bruce Steinberg says no reason to alter GDP growth expectation of 4% next year, and that S&P 500 operating earnings will increase 10%. Sees slowdown in 2001 capital spending to 13% from around 16% in 2000. "Our view is that the risk of recession is small," he says. "The U.S. economy is healthy, though slowing." (TG) 

 9:00 (Dow Jones) Chase H&Q analysts are looking for eSpeed (ESPD) to post strong 3Q earnings. They estimate earnings of $27.1 million, with an EPS of $0.25. ESpeed holds a conference call Tuesday morning, which should include an update on its progress outside the Treasury trading sphere. (MSD) 

 8:52 (Dow Jones) Whatever Jack Welch wants Jack Welch gets. And in this case arguably the most respected CEO in corporate America wanted Honeywell International (HON) and he got it, outbidding United Technologies (UTX) with a $45 billion, 11th-hour bid. As part of the deal, the biggest in GE's history, Welch will stay on longer as CEO to oversee the integration, which should be challenging even for the great Welch. (CCW) 

 8:44 (Dow Jones) USD/JPY continues to fall sharply on rumors of another Japanese insurance company failure. USD/JPY is at Y108.53. (CSE) 

 8:41 (Dow Jones) PaineWebber's Kerschner says onset of fair disclosure seems to prompt fair warning. "Coming and going, analysts tend to be late," he says, "still downgrading months after market bottoms and still upgrading months after market tops." Typically, analysts' ratings turn 13 weeks after market bottom/tops, and after market has moved 23%, he says. (TG) 

 8:36 (Dow Jones) Treasurys have so far done little this session and are flat on the day, with the 10-year stuck at a 5.63% yield. With little data to watch, stock trading will likely dominate again. However, just because stocks do well does not mean bonds suffer, given Treasurys' very defensive stance. (MSD) 

 8:35 (Dow Jones) Trade in IPE Brent is nervous with many traders confused by the way the market has been reacting to the Mideast situation, say brokers. "We're nervous about what the Middle East will still bring," says one, but notes that last week most Mideast headlines were ignored. (SMF) 

 8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks poised to open modestly lower. The Nasdaq Composite ended its six-week weekly losing streak with a 5% gain last week. Investors showed renewed appetite for big tech after some key companies posted decent results and didn't forecast trouble. But Monday's action is more likely to be focused on components of the DJIA, with General Electric (GE) and AT&T (T) in the spotlight, along with earnings from American Express (AXP), Minnesota Mining (MMM), and SBC Communications (SBC). Amazingly, there's another profit warning from Lucent (LU), along with the exit of chairman McGinn. Employment cost index Thursday and GDP Friday. (TG) 

80000

Document dj00000020010805dwan03zs6




 MARKET TALK: Dec. S&Ps, Nasdaq Weak Early 

763 words
23 October 2000
14:32
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)


 9:32 (Dow Jones) Dec. S&Ps and Nasdaq are weaker in early trade, finding selling pressure after a weaker overnight trade. Focus for markets are on earnings, technicals and oil prices. Floor trader says markets have a little more downside for the short-term, but doesn't see a big sell off. (DMC) 

 9:23 (Dow Jones) (Dow Jones) Why can't Nasdaq rally to 4500 or 5000? Arnhold's John Roque gives four reasons: Internet stocks would have to revisit performance of late '99/early '00, not enough tech names have have made trading bases, oil has yet to correct, and the Fed isn't likely to start easing anytime soon. (TG) 

 9:13 (Dow Jones) Richard McGinn is out as Lucent's (LU) chairman and chief executive; Henry Schacht returns to those positions he held with the company from 1995 to 1997. Lucent is also lowering guidance for first quarter numbers and has moved up the release for its fourth quarter earnings to the close today. Stock off 5% in pre-market trading. (LF) 

 9:11 (Dow Jones) Does Jack Welch's now-delayed retirement say something about General Electric's (GE) management depth? Welch has been saying for months that GE will be just fine without him, given the strong executive team he's put in place. Yet, with the Honeywell (HON) deal, he's now saying he'll stick around to see things through. (RJH) 

 9:07 (Dow Jones) Merrill's chief economist Bruce Steinberg says no reason to alter GDP growth expectation of 4% next year, and that S&P 500 operating earnings will increase 10%. Sees slowdown in 2001 capital spending to 13% from around 16% in 2000. "Our view is that the risk of recession is small," he says. "The U.S. economy is healthy, though slowing." (TG) 

 9:00 (Dow Jones) Chase H&Q analysts are looking for eSpeed (ESPD) to post strong 3Q earnings. They estimate earnings of $27.1 million, with an EPS of $0.25. ESpeed holds a conference call Tuesday morning, which should include an update on its progress outside the Treasury trading sphere. (MSD) 

 8:52 (Dow Jones) Whatever Jack Welch wants Jack Welch gets. And in this case arguably the most respected CEO in corporate America wanted Honeywell International (HON) and he got it, outbidding United Technologies (UTX) with a $45 billion, 11th-hour bid. As part of the deal, the biggest in GE's history, Welch will stay on longer as CEO to oversee the integration, which should be challenging even for the great Welch. (CCW) 

 8:44 (Dow Jones) USD/JPY continues to fall sharply on rumors of another Japanese insurance company failure. USD/JPY is at Y108.53. (CSE) 

 8:41 (Dow Jones) PaineWebber's Kerschner says onset of fair disclosure seems to prompt fair warning. "Coming and going, analysts tend to be late," he says, "still downgrading months after market bottoms and still upgrading months after market tops." Typically, analysts' ratings turn 13 weeks after market bottom/tops, and after market has moved 23%, he says. (TG) 

 8:36 (Dow Jones) Treasurys have so far done little this session and are flat on the day, with the 10-year stuck at a 5.63% yield. With little data to watch, stock trading will likely dominate again. However, just because stocks do well does not mean bonds suffer, given Treasurys' very defensive stance. (MSD) 

 8:35 (Dow Jones) Trade in IPE Brent is nervous with many traders confused by the way the market has been reacting to the Mideast situation, say brokers. "We're nervous about what the Middle East will still bring," says one, but notes that last week most Mideast headlines were ignored. (SMF) 

 8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks poised to open modestly lower. The Nasdaq Composite ended its six-week weekly losing streak with a 5% gain last week. Investors showed renewed appetite for big tech after some key companies posted decent results and didn't forecast trouble. But Monday's action is more likely to be focused on components of the DJIA, with General Electric (GE) and AT&T (T) in the spotlight, along with earnings from American Express (AXP), Minnesota Mining (MMM), and SBC Communications (SBC). Amazingly, there's another profit warning from Lucent (LU), along with the exit of chairman McGinn. Employment cost index Thursday and GDP Friday. (TG) 

80000

Document dj00000020010805dwan03zry




 MARKET TALK: Four Reasons Not To Look For Nasdaq 5000 

709 words
23 October 2000
14:24
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)


 9:23 (Dow Jones) (Dow Jones) Why can't Nasdaq rally to 4500 or 5000? Arnhold's John Roque gives four reasons: Internet stocks would have to revisit performance of late '99/early '00, not enough tech names have have made trading bases, oil has yet to correct, and the Fed isn't likely to start easing anytime soon. (TG) 

 9:13 (Dow Jones) Richard McGinn is out as Lucent's (LU) chairman and chief executive; Henry Schacht returns to those positions he held with the company from 1995 to 1997. Lucent is also lowering guidance for first quarter numbers and has moved up the release for its fourth quarter earnings to the close today. Stock off 5% in pre-market trading. (LF) 

 9:11 (Dow Jones) Does Jack Welch's now-delayed retirement say something about General Electric's (GE) management depth? Welch has been saying for months that GE will be just fine without him, given the strong executive team he's put in place. Yet, with the Honeywell (HON) deal, he's now saying he'll stick around to see things through. (RJH) 

 9:07 (Dow Jones) Merrill's chief economist Bruce Steinberg says no reason to alter GDP growth expectation of 4% next year, and that S&P 500 operating earnings will increase 10%. Sees slowdown in 2001 capital spending to 13% from around 16% in 2000. "Our view is that the risk of recession is small," he says. "The U.S. economy is healthy, though slowing." (TG) 

 9:00 (Dow Jones) Chase H&Q analysts are looking for eSpeed (ESPD) to post strong 3Q earnings. They estimate earnings of $27.1 million, with an EPS of $0.25. ESpeed holds a conference call Tuesday morning, which should include an update on its progress outside the Treasury trading sphere. (MSD) 

 8:52 (Dow Jones) Whatever Jack Welch wants Jack Welch gets. And in this case arguably the most respected CEO in corporate America wanted Honeywell International (HON) and he got it, outbidding United Technologies (UTX) with a $45 billion, 11th-hour bid. As part of the deal, the biggest in GE's history, Welch will stay on longer as CEO to oversee the integration, which should be challenging even for the great Welch. (CCW) 

 8:44 (Dow Jones) USD/JPY continues to fall sharply on rumors of another Japanese insurance company failure. USD/JPY is at Y108.53. (CSE) 

 8:41 (Dow Jones) PaineWebber's Kerschner says onset of fair disclosure seems to prompt fair warning. "Coming and going, analysts tend to be late," he says, "still downgrading months after market bottoms and still upgrading months after market tops." Typically, analysts' ratings turn 13 weeks after market bottom/tops, and after market has moved 23%, he says. (TG) 

 8:36 (Dow Jones) Treasurys have so far done little this session and are flat on the day, with the 10-year stuck at a 5.63% yield. With little data to watch, stock trading will likely dominate again. However, just because stocks do well does not mean bonds suffer, given Treasurys' very defensive stance. (MSD) 

 8:35 (Dow Jones) Trade in IPE Brent is nervous with many traders confused by the way the market has been reacting to the Mideast situation, say brokers. "We're nervous about what the Middle East will still bring," says one, but notes that last week most Mideast headlines were ignored. (SMF) 

 8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks poised to open modestly lower. The Nasdaq Composite ended its six-week weekly losing streak with a 5% gain last week. Investors showed renewed appetite for big tech after some key companies posted decent results and didn't forecast trouble. But Monday's action is more likely to be focused on components of the DJIA, with General Electric (GE) and AT&T (T) in the spotlight, along with earnings from American Express (AXP), Minnesota Mining (MMM), and SBC Communications (SBC). Amazingly, there's another profit warning from Lucent (LU), along with the exit of chairman McGinn. Employment cost index Thursday and GDP Friday. (TG) 

80000

Document dj00000020010805dwan03zrj




 MARKET TALK: When It Rains It Pours At Lucent 

648 words
23 October 2000
14:13
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)


 9:13 (Dow Jones) Richard McGinn is out as Lucent's (LU) chairman and chief executive; Henry Schacht returns to those positions he held with the company from 1995 to 1997. Lucent is also lowering guidance for first quarter numbers and has moved up the release for its fourth quarter earnings to the close today. Stock off 5% in pre-market trading. (LF) 

 9:11 (Dow Jones) Does Jack Welch's now-delayed retirement say something about General Electric's (GE) management depth? Welch has been saying for months that GE will be just fine without him, given the strong executive team he's put in place. Yet, with the Honeywell (HON) deal, he's now saying he'll stick around to see things through. (RJH) 

 9:07 (Dow Jones) Merrill's chief economist Bruce Steinberg says no reason to alter GDP growth expectation of 4% next year, and that S&P 500 operating earnings will increase 10%. Sees slowdown in 2001 capital spending to 13% from around 16% in 2000. "Our view is that the risk of recession is small," he says. "The U.S. economy is healthy, though slowing." (TG) 

 9:00 (Dow Jones) Chase H&Q analysts are looking for eSpeed (ESPD) to post strong 3Q earnings. They estimate earnings of $27.1 million, with an EPS of $0.25. ESpeed holds a conference call Tuesday morning, which should include an update on its progress outside the Treasury trading sphere. (MSD) 

 8:52 (Dow Jones) Whatever Jack Welch wants Jack Welch gets. And in this case arguably the most respected CEO in corporate America wanted Honeywell International (HON) and he got it, outbidding United Technologies (UTX) with a $45 billion, 11th-hour bid. As part of the deal, the biggest in GE's history, Welch will stay on longer as CEO to oversee the integration, which should be challenging even for the great Welch. (CCW) 

 8:44 (Dow Jones) USD/JPY continues to fall sharply on rumors of another Japanese insurance company failure. USD/JPY is at Y108.53. (CSE) 

 8:41 (Dow Jones) PaineWebber's Kerschner says onset of fair disclosure seems to prompt fair warning. "Coming and going, analysts tend to be late," he says, "still downgrading months after market bottoms and still upgrading months after market tops." Typically, analysts' ratings turn 13 weeks after market bottom/tops, and after market has moved 23%, he says. (TG) 

 8:36 (Dow Jones) Treasurys have so far done little this session and are flat on the day, with the 10-year stuck at a 5.63% yield. With little data to watch, stock trading will likely dominate again. However, just because stocks do well does not mean bonds suffer, given Treasurys' very defensive stance. (MSD) 

 8:35 (Dow Jones) Trade in IPE Brent is nervous with many traders confused by the way the market has been reacting to the Mideast situation, say brokers. "We're nervous about what the Middle East will still bring," says one, but notes that last week most Mideast headlines were ignored. (SMF) 

 8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks poised to open modestly lower. The Nasdaq Composite ended its six-week weekly losing streak with a 5% gain last week. Investors showed renewed appetite for big tech after some key companies posted decent results and didn't forecast trouble. But Monday's action is more likely to be focused on components of the DJIA, with General Electric (GE) and AT&T (T) in the spotlight, along with earnings from American Express (AXP), Minnesota Mining (MMM), and SBC Communications (SBC). Amazingly, there's another profit warning from Lucent (LU), along with the exit of chairman McGinn. Employment cost index Thursday and GDP Friday. (TG) 

80000

Document dj00000020010805dwan03zr8




 MARKET TALK: Merrill's Steinberg: Economy Slowing, Healthy 

521 words
23 October 2000
14:08
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)


 9:07 (Dow Jones) Merrill's chief economist Bruce Steinberg says no reason to alter GDP growth expectation of 4% next year, and that S&P 500 operating earnings will increase 10%. Sees slowdown in 2001 capital spending to 13% from around 16% in 2000. "Our view is that the risk of recession is small," he says. "The U.S. economy is healthy, though slowing." (TG) 

 9:00 (Dow Jones) Chase H&Q analysts are looking for eSpeed (ESPD) to post strong 3Q earnings. They estimate earnings of $27.1 million, with an EPS of $0.25. ESpeed holds a conference call Tuesday morning, which should include an update on its progress outside the Treasury trading sphere. (MSD) 

 8:52 (Dow Jones) Whatever Jack Welch wants Jack Welch gets. And in this case arguably the most respected CEO in corporate America wanted Honeywell International (HON) and he got it, outbidding United Technologies (UTX) with a $45 billion, 11th-hour bid. As part of the deal, the biggest in GE's history, Welch will stay on longer as CEO to oversee the integration, which should be challenging even for the great Welch. (CCW) 

 8:44 (Dow Jones) USD/JPY continues to fall sharply on rumors of another Japanese insurance company failure. USD/JPY is at Y108.53. (CSE) 

 8:41 (Dow Jones) PaineWebber's Kerschner says onset of fair disclosure seems to prompt fair warning. "Coming and going, analysts tend to be late," he says, "still downgrading months after market bottoms and still upgrading months after market tops." Typically, analysts' ratings turn 13 weeks after market bottom/tops, and after market has moved 23%, he says. (TG) 

 8:36 (Dow Jones) Treasurys have so far done little this session and are flat on the day, with the 10-year stuck at a 5.63% yield. With little data to watch, stock trading will likely dominate again. However, just because stocks do well does not mean bonds suffer, given Treasurys' very defensive stance. (MSD) 

 8:35 (Dow Jones) Trade in IPE Brent is nervous with many traders confused by the way the market has been reacting to the Mideast situation, say brokers. "We're nervous about what the Middle East will still bring," says one, but notes that last week most Mideast headlines were ignored. (SMF) 

 8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks poised to open modestly lower. The Nasdaq Composite ended its six-week weekly losing streak with a 5% gain last week. Investors showed renewed appetite for big tech after some key companies posted decent results and didn't forecast trouble. But Monday's action is more likely to be focused on components of the DJIA, with General Electric (GE) and AT&T (T) in the spotlight, along with earnings from American Express (AXP), Minnesota Mining (MMM), and SBC Communications (SBC). Amazingly, there's another profit warning from Lucent (LU), along with the exit of chairman McGinn. Employment cost index Thursday and GDP Friday. (TG) 

80000

Document dj00000020010805dwan03zr1




 MARKET TALK: USD/JPY Pressured On Rumors Of Insur. Failure 

329 words
23 October 2000
13:43
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)


 8:44 (Dow Jones) USD/JPY continues to fall sharply on rumors of another Japanese insurance company failure. USD/JPY is at Y108.53. (CSE) 

 8:41 (Dow Jones) PaineWebber's Kerschner says onset of fair disclosure seems to prompt fair warning. "Coming and going, analysts tend to be late," he says, "still downgrading months after market bottoms and still upgrading months after market tops." Typically, analysts' ratings turn 13 weeks after market bottom/tops, and after market has moved 23%, he says. (TG) 

 8:36 (Dow Jones) Treasurys have so far done little this session and are flat on the day, with the 10-year stuck at a 5.63% yield. With little data to watch, stock trading will likely dominate again. However, just because stocks do well does not mean bonds suffer, given Treasurys' very defensive stance. (MSD) 

 8:35 (Dow Jones) Trade in IPE Brent is nervous with many traders confused by the way the market has been reacting to the Mideast situation, say brokers. "We're nervous about what the Middle East will still bring," says one, but notes that last week most Mideast headlines were ignored. (SMF) 

 8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks poised to open modestly lower. The Nasdaq Composite ended its six-week weekly losing streak with a 5% gain last week. Investors showed renewed appetite for big tech after some key companies posted decent results and didn't forecast trouble. But Monday's action is more likely to be focused on components of the DJIA, with General Electric (GE) and AT&T (T) in the spotlight, along with earnings from American Express (AXP), Minnesota Mining (MMM), and SBC Communications (SBC). Amazingly, there's another profit warning from Lucent (LU), along with the exit of chairman McGinn. Employment cost index Thursday and GDP Friday. (TG) 

80000

Document dj00000020010805dwan03zq5




 MARKET TALK: Does FD = Frequent Downgrades, Kerschner Asks 

302 words
23 October 2000
13:42
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)


 8:41 (Dow Jones) PaineWebber's Kerschner says onset of fair disclosure seems to prompt fair warning. "Coming and going, analysts tend to be late," he says, "still downgrading months after market bottoms and still upgrading months after market tops." Typically, analysts' ratings turn 13 weeks after market bottom/tops, and after market has moved 23%, he says. (TG) 

 8:36 (Dow Jones) Treasurys have so far done little this session and are flat on the day, with the 10-year stuck at a 5.63% yield. With little data to watch, stock trading will likely dominate again. However, just because stocks do well does not mean bonds suffer, given Treasurys' very defensive stance. (MSD) 

 8:35 (Dow Jones) Trade in IPE Brent is nervous with many traders confused by the way the market has been reacting to the Mideast situation, say brokers. "We're nervous about what the Middle East will still bring," says one, but notes that last week most Mideast headlines were ignored. (SMF) 

 8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks poised to open modestly lower. The Nasdaq Composite ended its six-week weekly losing streak with a 5% gain last week. Investors showed renewed appetite for big tech after some key companies posted decent results and didn't forecast trouble. But Monday's action is more likely to be focused on components of the DJIA, with General Electric (GE) and AT&T (T) in the spotlight, along with earnings from American Express (AXP), Minnesota Mining (MMM), and SBC Communications (SBC). Amazingly, there's another profit warning from Lucent (LU), along with the exit of chairman McGinn. Employment cost index Thursday and GDP Friday. (TG) 

80000

Document dj00000020010805dwan03zq3




 MARKET TALK: Bonds May Take Cue From Stocks, Again 

244 words
23 October 2000
13:36
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)


 8:36 (Dow Jones) Treasurys have so far done little this session and are flat on the day, with the 10-year stuck at a 5.63% yield. With little data to watch, stock trading will likely dominate again. However, just because stocks do well does not mean bonds suffer, given Treasurys' very defensive stance. (MSD) 

 8:35 (Dow Jones) Trade in IPE Brent is nervous with many traders confused by the way the market has been reacting to the Mideast situation, say brokers. "We're nervous about what the Middle East will still bring," says one, but notes that last week most Mideast headlines were ignored. (SMF) 

 8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks poised to open modestly lower. The Nasdaq Composite ended its six-week weekly losing streak with a 5% gain last week. Investors showed renewed appetite for big tech after some key companies posted decent results and didn't forecast trouble. But Monday's action is more likely to be focused on components of the DJIA, with General Electric (GE) and AT&T (T) in the spotlight, along with earnings from American Express (AXP), Minnesota Mining (MMM), and SBC Communications (SBC). Amazingly, there's another profit warning from Lucent (LU), along with the exit of chairman McGinn. Employment cost index Thursday and GDP Friday. (TG) 

80000

Document dj00000020010805dwan03zps




 MARKET TALK: Trade In Brent Nervous On Mideast Situation 

188 words
23 October 2000
13:34
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)


 8:35 (Dow Jones) Trade in IPE Brent is nervous with many traders confused by the way the market has been reacting to the Mideast situation, say brokers. "We're nervous about what the Middle East will still bring," says one, but notes that last week most Mideast headlines were ignored. (SMF) 

 8:30 (Dow Jones) Stocks poised to open modestly lower. The Nasdaq Composite ended its six-week weekly losing streak with a 5% gain last week. Investors showed renewed appetite for big tech after some key companies posted decent results and didn't forecast trouble. But Monday's action is more likely to be focused on components of the DJIA, with General Electric (GE) and AT&T (T) in the spotlight, along with earnings from American Express (AXP), Minnesota Mining (MMM), and SBC Communications (SBC). Amazingly, there's another profit warning from Lucent (LU), along with the exit of chairman McGinn. Employment cost index Thursday and GDP Friday. (TG) 

80000

Document dj00000020010805dwan03zpp




 European shares creep higher as US markets reassure ATTENTION - RECASTS, UPDATES prices /// 

749 words
23 October 2000
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 LONDON, Oct 23 (AFP) - European stock markets closed with modest gains on Monday, encouraged by a positive tone on Wall Street despite another setback for the technology sector, traders said. 

 The US market shrugged off a profit warning and an unexpected change in the top job at US Lucent Technologies. The telecoms equipment supplier revised downward its first quarter revenue estimates and said it would bring forward the publication of fourth- quarter results to Monday, after the close. 

 Lucent also announced that its chairman and chief executive officer Richard Mc Ginn was resigning and would be replaced by Henry Schacht. 

 But news of the agreed mega-merger between US conglomerate General Electric and industrial and aerospace group Honeywell helped strengthen investor sentiment. 

 In late afternoon, the Dow Jones Euro STOXX 50 index rose 1.03 percent at 4,896.24. 

 The London FTSE-100 index closed up 39.6 points, or 0.63 percent, at 6,215.9. 

 The Paris CAC 40 rose 0.54 percent at 6,184.34 points. 

 In Frankfurt, the DAX 30 index was up 0.40 percent at 6,645, in late afternoon trading. 

 The yield on the benchmark German 10-year bond tightened to 5.199 percent from 5.186 percent on Friday. 

 As the London market closed, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 84.35 points at 10,312.53, while the Nasdaq composite index firmed 6.26 points at 3,489.84. 

 In the high tech sector, the news from Lucent took prices down. Bookham Technologies shed 69 pence at 2,500, Marconi fell 18 pence at 920 and ARM Holding lost 35 pence at 679. 

 Reuters dropped 39 pence to 1,272 after Friday's strong gains on the back of Friday's third quarter results, while Pearson lost 24 pence at 1,805 after a recent rally and Granada Media was down five pence at 385. 

 In Paris, shares were lifted by sharp gains for index heavyweight France Telecom amid quiet market activity, with investors happy to remain on the sidelines while waiting for firmer direction for European indices. 

 Dealers said the shake-out in the high-tech and telecom sectors, which make up a significant part of the CAC-40 index, may not yet be finished. 

 "Consolidation will go on for a few months more... There's a further downdraft to come, we advise to be cautious," said Peter Bradshaw, head of European internet research at Merrill Lynch, who spoke at a conference here. 

 Alcatel shares were the most heavily traded, slipping 0.45 euros, or 0.59 percent, to 76 as negative sentiment from Lucent's profitwarning weighed on the stock, dealers said. 

 "It takes the market about a day to realise that Alcatel and Lucent don't do exactly the same kind of job. It's a sort knee-jerk reflex," one dealer said. 

 France Telecom climbed 5.40 euros, or five percent to 113, helped by hopes of lower third-generation mobile phone licence costs in Italy after the Blu joint venture decided not to pursue the auction process, dealers said. 

 Thomson Multimedia fell 2.20 euros to 51.30 and Equant slipped 0.90 euros to 37.80, while STMicroelectronics gained 0.15 euros to 86.40. 

 Pernod Ricard rallied 3.80 euros, or 7.4 percent, to 55 after the shares saw a string of losses last week on concerns of the high price that may be required to acquire all or part of Seagram's drinks business, dealers said. 

 Supermarket chain Carrefour fell two euros to 80 after the company recalled beef from stores that may have been exposed to the mad-cow disease. 

 In Frankfurt, shares in index heavyweight Deutsche Telekom rose, helping to pull up a thinly traded market. 

 The telecoms group gained 6.7 percent to 40.9 euros as the company declined comment on a report in Speigel magazine that it was looking to buy a minority stake in Swisscom's mobile phone subsidiary. 

 In Zurich, the SMI closed up 0.60 percent at 7,768.80 points, in Milan the Mib 30 rose 0.89 percent at 45,776 points, in Madrid the Ibex-35 fell 1.09 percent at 10,329.9, in Amsterdam the AEX rose 1.04 percent at 662.97 points and in Brussels the Bel-20 eased 0.23 percent at 3,037.61 points. 

 bur/pt/sas 

Document afpr000020010803dwan04f4e




 PLATT'S - European shares creep higher as US markets reassure. 

146 words
23 October 2000
19:59
Platts Commodity News
PLATT
English
Copyright 2000. Platts. All Rights Reserved. 

 London (AFP)-23Oct2000/257 pm EDT/1857 GMT European stock markets closed with modest gains on Monday, encouraged by a positive tone on Wall Street despite another setback for the technology sector, traders said. The US market shrugged off a profit warning and an unexpected change in the top job at US Lucent Technologies, while news of the agreed mega-merger between US conglomerate General Electric and industrial and aerospace group Honeywell helped strengthen investor sentiment. In late afternoon, the Dow Jones Euro STOXX 50 index rose 1.03% at 4,896.24. The London FTSE-100 index closed up 39.6 points, or 0.63%, at 6,215.9. The Paris CAC 40 rose 0.54% at 6,184.34 points. In Frankfurt, the DAX 30 index was at 6,620.87, up 0.04%. 

Document platt00020030724dwan001q7


 The Seattle Times Stock Talk Column 

 Greg Heberlein 
592 words
22 October 2000
Washington
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 SPACELABS MEDICAL A BUY, ANALYST SAYS: Here are recent brokerage-house and investment-advisory opinions affecting Pacific Northwest stocks. Many analysts' firms do business with the companies on which they comment. The Seattle Times neither advises against nor recommends purchase of these stocks. Stock symbols and stock quotations are listed in parentheses, the latter reflecting prices when reports were issued. Ratings definitions vary, but most companies have five rankings, which are, from highest to lowest: 

 Strong buy, buy or highest. 

 Buy/accumulate, accumulate, mild buy, outperform, attractive or above average. 

 Neutral, hold, reasonably priced, average or market performer. 

 Mild sell, unattractive, below average or underperform. 

 Sell, lowest. 

 SpaceLabs Medical (SLMD, $9.38) lost more than half its value this year. But for those willing to speculate in a potential sales recovery, stoked by new products and the future of telemedicine, this stock could be it, writes Les Childress of Childress Investment Research on Bainbridge Island. 

 Childress rates the Redmond medical-equipment company a "buy." SpaceLabs' precipitous price drop means some big investors no longer can buy its shares. But at the same time, the fall could bring in a buyer. (Report issued Oct. 10.) 

 Recommendation: Buy. 

 Advanced Digital Info. Corp. (ADIC, $13.63) 

 Analyst: Bob Toomey, Dain Rauscher. 

 Recommendation: Strong buy. 

 Comment: Stock in this data-storage company can sustain profit growth of 25 percent a year for the next several years. (10/16) 

 Corixa (CRXA, $36.25) 

 Analyst: Andrew Heyward, Ragen MacKenzie. 

 Recommendation: Market perform. 

 Comment: Coulter acquisition benefits Corixa shareholders. (10/16) 

 Costco (COST, $31.06) 

 Analyst (1): Laura Richardson, Pacific Crest Securities. 

 Recommendation: Strong buy. 

 Comment: Rating upgraded from "market perform," analyst's first retail upgrade since spring. (10/13) 

 Analyst (2): Michael Shea, D.A. Davidson. 

 Recommendation: Outperform. 

 Comment: Company forecasts contain risk, but the outlook still is good. (10/12) 

 Analyst (3): Bob Toomey, Dain Rauscher. 

 Recommendation: Buy. 

 Comment: Accelerated expansion, while costly, enhances long-term value. (10/16) 

 Expeditors International (EXPD, $43.94) 

 Analyst: Peter Jacobs, Ragen MacKenzie. 

 Recommendation: Market perform. 

 Comment: Freight forwarder pre-announces better results. Stock is attractive for growth-oriented investors. (10/16) 

 Longview Fibre (LFB, $13) 

 Analyst: William Ferguson, Value Line. 

 Recommendation: Average. 

 Comment: Potential is good, but the shares are best suited for venturesome investors. (10/13) 

 Nordstrom (JWN, $14.63) 

 Analyst (1): Bob Toomey, Dain Rauscher. 

 Recommendation: Neutral. 

 Comment: When same-store sales improve, stock could begin a move to $22 to $24 target. (10/12) 

 Analyst (2): Michael Shea, D.A. Davidson. 

 Recommendation: Neutral. 

 Comment: Analyst eyes holiday season carefully, looking for a renewal of the company's ability to perform during critical periods. (10/11) 

 Analyst (3): Lesa Sroufe, Ragen MacKenzie. 

 Recommendation: Buy. 

 Comment: Despite profit warning, Nordstrom changes have been positive, and better results will come. (10/11) 

 Analyst (4): Jennifer Black, First Security Van Kasper. 

 Recommendation: Strong buy. 

 Comment: Consumer feedback turns positive. Nordstrom "offers an outstanding long-term investment opportunity." (10/11) 

 Plum Creek Timber (PCL, $21.19) 

 Analyst (1): Steven Chercover, D.A. Davidson. 

 Recommendation: Outperform. 

 Comment: Acquisition of Georgia Pacific unit hurts results, but one-year target price stays at $32. (10/12) 

 Analyst (2): Deborah Fung, Value Line. 

 Recommendation: Below average. 

 Comment: Although the stock is untimely, the 10.4 percent yield may appeal to some. (10/13) 

 RealNetworks (RNWK, $21) 

 Analyst: Brent Bracelin, Pacific Crest Securities. 

 Recommendation: Strong buy. 

 Comment: Upgraded from "buy." Concern about ad revenue is overdone. (10/16) 

 Greg Heberlein: 206-464-2267. E-mail: gheberlein@seattletimes.com. 

Document krtbn00020010807dwam01z69




BIZ
BRIEFING

1,188 words
21 October 2000
The Denver Post
DNVR
SAT
C-02
English
Copyright © 2000 The Denver Post Corp. Distributed by NewsBank, Inc.   

Local

WESTPORT SURGES ON NYSE: Westport Resources Corp. shares rose as much as 15 percent on the oil and natural-gas company's first day of New York Stock Exchange trading. Westport Resources rose $2.13 to $17.13 on trading of 5.3 million shares after rising as high as $17.25. Its stock was offered at $15 a share. The Denver-based energy explorer and producer operates in the Rocky Mountains, western Texas, Oklahoma, Kansas and the Gulf of Mexico coast, according to a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filing. (Bloomberg)

CSU GETS MORTGAGE EDUCATION GRANT: The Mortgage Bankers Association of America on Friday awarded an $80,000 grant to the Colorado State University College of Business. The grant, which will be paid over four years, will fund curriculum development in the field of commercial and multifamily real estate finance. CSU plans to use the grant to add a course to its curriculum, establish a speakers' series and assist students in finding internships and jobs in the industry. (The Denver Post)

"TREK' ARTIST SETTLES WITH PARAMOUNT: James Cukr, the Littleton artist sued for allegedly selling unauthorized paintings and prints of "Star Trek" images, reached a settlement with Paramount Pictures Corp., which owns "Star Trek" copyrights. Terms of the agreement weren't released. According to documents filed in U.S. District Court this week, Cukr is prohibited from infringing Paramount's copyrights for Star Trek properties. He agreed to deliver prints of "Star Trek" artwork to Paramount that it considered unauthorized. Cukr is allowed to sell "Star Trek"-related paintings as permitted under a license agreement with the company. (The Denver Post)

HIGH SPEED GAINS INVESTMENT: High Speed Access Corp., a Littleton-based provider of broadband services, Friday announced the signing of the definitive agreement with Vulcan Ventures Inc., the investment organization of Paul G. Allen, and Charter Communications Ventures LLC, an indirect subsidiary of Charter Communications Inc. High Speed will receive a combined convertible preferred equity investment of $75 million from the two companies. Vulcan Ventures and Charter Communications Ventures will each invest approximately equal amounts. (The Denver Post)

LOCKHEED LIFTOFF SUCCESSFUL: A Lockheed Martin Atlas IIA rocket assembled in Jefferson County lifted off successfully Thursday night from Cape Canaveral, Fla. The rocket carried a Defense Satellite Communications System III satellite for the U.S. Air Force. The launch was the 53rd consecutive for the Atlas family of rockets. (The Denver Post)

DREYFUSS FUND CLOSES: Founders Asset Management LLC of Denver announced Friday that it has closed its $1.5 billion Dreyfus Founders Discovery Fund to new investors. The company said shareholders may continue to purchase shares and reinvest dividends and capital-gains distributions in the fund. The fund invests in small-cap companies. (The Denver Post)

LEVEL 3 ENTERS JAPAN MARKET: Level 3 Communications Inc. on Friday announced it is offering low-cost bandwidth services to Internet and communications companies in Japan. Level 3 has opened its first advanced data center in Tokyo that, combined with the company's new gateway in Hong Kong, gives Level 3 two operational gateways in Asia. In addition, Level 3 recently announced plans to expand into Taipei, Taiwan and Seoul, South Korea, by the end of 2001. (The Denver Post)

HOST WINS DIA CONTRACT: Host International Inc., an operating subsidiary of HMSHost Corp., won a seven-year contract to provide food and beverage concessions in Concourse A at Denver International Airport. The contract is expected to be ratified by the Denver City Council. Aggregate revenue for the two sites at DIA is projected to exceed $12 million over the term of the contract. (The Denver Post)

COMPANY PURCHASES KVA SUPPLY: Wesco International Inc. on Friday announced it has acquired the assets of KVA Supply Co. in Denver and KVA Supply Co. Southwest in Southern California. KVA, with sales of $30 million, specializes in supplying products to the underground high-voltage electric utility industry. Pittsburgh-based Wesco said the acquisition of KVA adds significant capabilities to its utility division. (The Denver Post)

Nation/World

EARNINGS DROP COSTS CIRCUIT CITY: Shares in Circuit City fell more than 35 percent on Friday after the home electronics retailer issued its second profit warning in as many months. Circuit City Stores Inc. warned it will lose money in the third quarter because of weaker-than-expected sales over the past four weeks in virtually all product areas. The nation's largest retailer of brand-name electronics expects losses of 5 cents to 10 cents a share for the period ending Nov. 30. Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial had been expecting earnings of 16 cents a share. (AP)

BUYERS KEEP NOVELIST'S VENTURE GOING: Thanks to readers who have been paying as they peruse, horror writer Stephen King will continue to nurture "The Plant," his latest Internet venture. King had threatened that he would stop after three installments if the percentage of those paying the $1 fee for each section dropped below 75 percent. Readers who download each section of "The Plant" are asked to pay the fee. Those paying had dipped to about 70 percent after the second installment,but climbed back up to 75.6 percent four days after part three was released last month. (AP)

XEROX PLANS RESTRUCTURING: Xerox Corp., the world's largest copier company, may sell assets valued at as much as $4 billion to alleviate a credit crunch that has forced it to use a line of credit to fund its business, analysts said. Xerox said it plans to announce a restructuring and asset sales on Tuesday while explaining its first quarterly loss in 16 years. (Bloomberg)

LOEWS CONSIDERS ASSET SALE: Loews Cineplex Entertainment Corp. said it's considering a sale of assets or an investment by a third party as it faces a potential bankruptcy like several of its theater-owner competitors. Two temporary waivers have been granted to the New York-based company by creditors that enable Loews to continue to draw limited funds from a line of credit to meet obligations. Loews said it hopes to have a plan to focus on handling its debt by Nov. 24, when the waiversexpire. (Bloomberg)

NYMEX OPPOSES FUTURES LEGISLATION: Enron Corp., Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. and other large companies would have an unfair advantage over traders on regulated energy futures markets under legislation pending before the U.S. Senate, the chairman of the New York Mercantile Exchange said. The world's largest energy exchange opposes the legislation passed by the House on Thursday night because it would let companies trade futures and derivatives electronically without following the rules Nymex must obey, Nymex chairman Daniel Rappaport said. (Bloomberg)

PIPELINE BEHIND SCHEDULE: Alliance Pipeline LP said its $3.11 billion (U.S.) natural-gas line from western Canada to the Midwest won't be completed until Nov. 13, two weeks later than expected. Workers need to clear the pipe of foam left by devices that were passed through it to remove water, an Alliance spokesman said. The line will carry 1.33 billion cubic feet of gas a day to the Chicago area. (Bloomberg)

Document DNVR000020150821dwal016r6




 Honeywell may merge with United Tech Corp. 

 Bloomberg News Service 
713 words
20 October 2000
Deseret News
DN
D07
English
 Copyright (c) 2000 Deseret News Publishing Co. 

 HARTFORD, Conn. -- United Technologies Corp. is close to buying Honeywell International Inc. for $40 billion in stock, creating the world's largest aerospace parts company, people familiar with the talks said. 

 United Technologies and Honeywell said in a statement that they're in discussions about a "possible business combination." 

 The two companies' boards planned to meet today to approve the transaction, the sources said. United Technologies will exchange 0.74 of a share for each Honeywell share, valuing the offer at $50 a share, they said. Annual sales would be about $52 billion. 

 The acquisition would combine United Technologies aerospace units with Honeywell's business that makes aircraft landing gears and cockpit and navigational systems. United Technologies got more than 40 percent of its $24 billion in sales last year from aerospace and the rest from its Otis elevator, Carrier air conditioning and other business units. 

 Honeywell shares rose as much as $5.88 to $41.75 in Instinet trading. United Technologies shares fell $4.12 to $63.88 after the CNBC report Thursday. Honeywell has about $3.4 billion in long-term debt, according to a regulatory filing. 

 United Technologies shares had gained 27 percent in the past year. Honeywell's shares had dropped 40 percent since the company was formed in December when Honeywell was bought by AlliedSignal Inc., which assumed the Honeywell name. 

 "Is (the combination) really going to create value?" asked Allen Meyers, who helps manage $4.5 billion at Lyon Street Asset Management in Grand Rapids, Mich., which owns shares in both companies. 

 Peter Murphy, a spokesman for United Technologies, based in Hartford, Conn., declined to comment further. Honeywell spokesman Thomas Crane also declined to comment. 

 The transaction will add about 23 cents a share to earnings in the first year after it closes, the people familiar with the talks said. The companies expect $1 billion in savings within three years, which they estimate will boost earnings by 90 cents a share, they said. 

 Honeywell Chairman and Chief Executive Michael Bonsignore has been seeking to regain investor confidence after several revised profit forecasts since the AlliedSignal merger. The company surprised investors in June with a profit warning just two weeks after Bonsignore said that profits would meet forecasts. 

 Honeywell, based in Morris Township, N.J., said in July that profits will be less than expected in the second half and next year because of a shortage of parts at its aerospace unit, higher raw-material costs and rising interest rates. It planned to cut an additional 6,000 jobs and sell businesses to pare costs and boost profits. 

 "I can see what they are thinking, but there are many unanswered questions," said Heidi Wood, an analyst with Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. 

 The two companies already have partnered to create an Internet exchange venture for aerospace parts and services called MyAircraft.com. United Technologies makes Pratt & Whitney jet engines. 

 Boeing Co., Airbus Industrie and other big aircraft makers "want fewer, more capable subcontractors that can provide bigger solutions for them," said Jon Kutler, president of Los Angeles-based investment bank Quarterdeck Investment Partners. 

 Honeywell's building control and monitoring systems will also be combined with the Carrier air-conditioning and heating systems as well as Otis elevators. Chairman and Chief Executive George David has reshaped United Technologies, selling an auto-parts business and buying aerospace systems maker Sundstrand Corp. in the past year. 

 "This allows them to provide systems solutions rather than stand alone products, enhancing the profitability of the businesses," said Nicholas Heymann, an analyst at Prudential Securities Inc., who has a "hold" on both companies. 

 David would be chief executive of the combined company, to be called Honeywell, and Bonsignore will become chairman, the people said. United Technologies will have nine board members and Honeywell will have seven, they said. 

 The agreement will include a $1.25 billion breakup fee if either company cancels the transaction, the people said. 

 United Technologies said yesterday that third-quarter profit rose 14 percent, led by sales at its elevator and aerospace units and by cost cutting. Earnings have increased 28 consecutive quarters under David's leadership. Honeywell's profit rose 9.5 percent in the recent quarter. 

Document dn00000020010805dwak00yxt




 Europe Stock Focus: Rocking Viva Escapes Media Stock Storm 

 By Stephan Kueffner 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
902 words
20 October 2000
07:29
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 FRANKFURT -(Dow Jones)- The rain fell hard on the Neuer Markt's party in recent days, but the party lifestyle experts at Viva Media AG (G.VVM) have escaped the storm. 

 For now, at least. Shares in the German music television group are trading at around the price they listed four months ago - some achievement given that Frankfurt's high-tech and media market has fallen by around 25% in that time. 

 Analysts, however, aren't convinced; they're confused. Few have any handle on the stock's valuation, or its ambitions, so can't say whether the share's a buy or not. 

 "It's hard to see what its real valuation is, so far," said Marc Roehder, media analyst at HSBC Trinkaus in Duesseldorf. He added that he thought EUR17.00, the company's listing price, was expensive: "The question of who is really the market leader (Viva or rival MTV Deutschland) is completely opaque." 

 Viva's average number of viewers has risen to 2.99 million this year, from 2.91 million last year, but MTV's viewership grew to 3.09 million, from 2.46 million, according to industry surveys. 

 But MTV has had a greater technical reach until this month, so Viva has greater market penetration, says investor relations head Michael Armbrust. 

 Viva Media, which styles itself "Germany's number one youth brand," has been briefing institutional investors in an attempt to address the valuation issue. It also points to its European and Internet expansion plans. 

 Thursday, the price was flat, trading one cent higher at EUR17.01. The share listed July 17, and peaked at EUR22.50 in August. 

 Practically all other Neuer Markt media shares, like the overall market, plunged over the past few week, thanks to the Nasdaq's weakness and a profit warning from heavyweight EM.TV & Merchandising AG (G.ETV). Viva Media, however, rode it out. 

 Founded in Cologne seven years ago, Viva's core activity is broadcasting music videos on two channels: Viva, geared for pop music, and Viva Zwei, for alternative rock. It also organizes and sponsors pop music events and owns a multimedia unit, Viva-connect. 

 The company has a free float of 23.5% - the norm for Neuer Markt companies that listed this year, said Annelie Hoppe, media analyst at WestLB. 

 Its major shareholders are record companies Warner Music, Universal, and EMI Group PLC (U.EMI), which each own 18.9%, and Edel Music AG (G.EDL), which owns 12.1%. 

 Armbrust said Viva has recognized analysts' problems in valuing the share and stepped up talks with institutional investors, who have been bullish on the share as a result. 

 He added the company is pleased with the share's recent performance, considering the market environment. 

 Commerzbank analysts see the share trading at EUR20.30 in the medium term and recommend accumulating it. 

 Armbrust said a "very large portion" of the free float is held by institutions. The share price, he said, has potential to rise on the back of expansion in Europe, which it kicked off in Switzerland and Poland this year and will continue in Austria next year. It's also looking for joint ventures or takeovers in the Netherlands, Spain, Italy and Hungary, among other European markets. 

 Viva's first-half earnings climbed to EUR2.65 million, before interest and taxes, from EUR345,000 a year earlier. 

 For the full year, it expects a loss before tax and interest of EUR1.5 million, due to second-half investments. Sales are seen rising to between EUR56 million and EUR57 million, from EUR48.8 million a year earlier. 

 Viva is also pushing strongly onto the Internet. It relaunched its widely-criticized general content web site Oct. 1. That same day, its availability in Germany grew by 39% to 31.39 million households, followings its switch to the Astra satellite system. 

 It's too early to tell how many households have now tuned in to Viva, and some analysts also doubt the expansion will quickly boost earnings. 

 One Munich analyst, speaking on condition of anonymity, said he believes Viva's recent market success in winning viewers' hearts owes less to its own efforts than to mistakes by MTV Deutschland. 

 The Viacom Inc. (VIA) unit for some time was only available as a premium channel for which cable television viewers had to pay extra, and was tardy in producing German content, but has now managed to catch up, he said. "I wouldn't touch the (Viva) share," the analyst added. "Expectations for the online activities are way too high. Youth television viewership is rising, rather than shifting to the Web." 

 Viva's Armbrust counters that the company sees greater convergence in the media in the long term "so it won't be clear to distinguish between TV and Internet viewers." 

 The new Internet platform will offer viewers - and advertisers - additional information at the same time, a concept HSBC's Roehder, for one, likes. 

 "Broadcasting a video and, at the same time, offering viewers the chance to buy the product or get additional information will give a significant boost to marketing potential," Roehder said. 

 Company Web sites: http://www.vivamediaag.de

http://www.viva.tv


   -By Stephan Kueffner, Dow Jones Newswires; +49 69 29 72 55 00;
stephan.kueffner@dowjones.com


53029

Document dji0000020010805dwak052sv




Front
ANOTHER MERGER FOR HONEYWELL? SECOND DEAL IN 10 MONTHS POSSIBLE TODAY  

By Riccardo A. Davis, The Arizona Republic;  Bloomberg News, the New York Times and Republic reporters Dennis Godfrey and David Proffitt contributed to this article.  
829 words
20 October 2000
The Arizona Republic
PHX
Final Chaser
A1
English
(c) Copyright 2000, The Arizona Republic. All Rights Reserved.  

Honeywell International, the state's largest employer, is in talks to be acquired by Connecticut-based United Technologies Corp. for a reported $40 billion, just 10 months after Honeywell merged with another company.  

The negotiations, confirmed by both companies late Thursday, could be sealed with a vote today by their boards of directors, according to news reports.  

The stock offer is valued at $50 a share. Honeywell shares rose $6.37, or 17 percent, to $43 late Thursday in after-hours trading after CNBC said the companies were near agreement. Shares of United Technologies, which have gained 27 percent in the past year, fell $4.12, to $63.88, after the CNBC report.  

Honeywell's Arizona workforce, 16,500 in the Valley and 1,000 in Tucson, was created only last December in a $16 billion combination with AlliedSignal. That merger made the Valley the center of Honeywell's aerospace and industrial-controls businesses.  

"It's kind of shocking," said Richard Neumann, a machinist at Honeywell's engines operation in Tempe.  

One worker said employees spent the day spreading word of the impending deal by e-mail and fax after the CNBC report.  

The news surprised Neumann, considering that Honeywell had just worked through the glitches from the AlliedSignal merger. But he added, "I don't think we have anything to worry about here."  

Another Honeywell machinist, J.L. Long, laughed at the possibility of a third owner in less than a year.  

"I've been here 27 years, and they have changed names a dozen times," Long said.  

Wall Street has been unimpressed by Honeywell's sagging earnings and a 40 percent drop in the company's stock since the AlliedSignal deal.  

If this new deal goes through, analysts say layoffs are almost assured in order to wring costs out of the combined company, which would rank as the world's largest aerospace parts manufacturer.  

"How else are you going to take costs out unless you take out people?" asked Phua Young, an analyst with Merrill Lynch Global Securities in New York City.  

On Tuesday, Honeywell reported that third-quarter net income fell almost 50 percent, in part because of a restructuring that will cut 6,000 jobs. The company had already planned to cut 4,500 jobs by the end of 2000, most of them from its former Minneapolis headquarters. The number of Honeywell employees in the Valley has remained relatively static.  

The two companies have many complementary businesses.  

United Technologies makes Carrier heating and air-conditioning systems; Honeywell makes thermostats and other climate control devices. United is in the process of forming a distributed-power business; Honeywell already makes microturbines. United Technologies owns Otis elevators and escalators; Honeywell is big in building control systems. United Technologies makes Sikorsky helicopters; Honeywell is a big supplier of avionics and helicopter engines.  

"They are both major players in the same industries, and while there's lots of overlap in customers, there is surprisingly little overlap in their products," said one analyst who covers both companies.Honeywell and United Technologies' Pratt & Whitney division both make aircraft engines, of course, but although United Technologies is strong in the commercial airline market, Honeywell's strength is business jets. And, because replacement parts (a very lucrative business) are not interchangeable, they do not compete there. In fact, the two companies recently formed a joint Web site, Myaircraft.com, that enables their customers to buy technical information, to use inventory control software and to buy parts.  

"The goal is to be large enough to beat up on your supplier and negotiate purchasing advantages," said Tom Burnett, president of Merger Insights, a New York City-based institutional research firm.  

Still, not everyone was sold on the deal.  

"I can see what they are thinking, but there are many unanswered questions," Heidi Wood, an analyst with Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. told Bloomberg News.  

The two companies were said to have been in discussions for some time, even before Honeywell warned this summer that second-quarter earnings would come in below analysts' expectations, and the company's stock sank.  

Merrill Lynch's Young said the profit warning and dismal earnings clearly indicated that something was wrong, but he didn't think that prompted Honeywell to put itself up for sale.  

"Plenty of CEOs would have stuck around," Young said.  

Terms of the deal would have Honeywell Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Michael Bonsignore becoming chairman of the combined company and United Technologies Chairman and CEO George David becoming CEO.  

CAPTION: Honeywell could experience its second corporate merger in less than a CAPTION: year if a deal is reached with United Technologies. CAPTION: Companies are airborne CAPTION: United technologies, Honeywell CAPTION: About Honeywell International CAPTION: About United Technologies  

Document PHX0000020050828dwak00897




 Tech fears send UK blue chips down. 

 By Martin Flanagan. 
827 words
19 October 2000
The Scotsman
SC
English
(c) 2000

 BLUE-CHIP London stocks yesterday touched their lowest since late May, most of the downward momentum triggered by fresh fear in the tech sector following IBM's trading warning. 

 After Wall Street closed on Tuesday, the world's biggest computer maker warned on revenues, as it also revealed sales in the third quarter grew by just 3 per cent to $21.8 billion ( #15 billion). This compared with analysts' forecasts of $22.4 billion. 

 The US falls had seen the Dow Jones industrial average plummet through the crucial 10,000 barrier in the first 45 minutes of trading, while the tech-rich Nasdaq composite dived nearly 200 points. 

 Following the recent profit warning from microchip giant Intel, the Big Blue's woes sent shudders through many British technology shares. 

 However, a certain amount of buying on weakness on both sides of the Atlantic helped to ease the pain later in the respective trading sessions. 

 After earlier dropping three per cent, Wall Street was trading 1.8 per cent off by the London close. 

 The FTSE 100 index finished the session down 55 points at 6148.2 after being 186 points under water at one point. 

 One of the biggest and highest-profile fallers among the techs was Britain's largest internet service provider Freeserve, majority-owned by the Dixons electrical retailing group, which slumped 20.75p, or 11 per cent, to 160p. 

 Freeserve remains currently friendless following the breakdown of its merger talks with T-Online, the internet operation of Deutsche Telekom of Germany. 

 Software groups were also hit, with Baltimore Technologies, down 66p or 13 per cent, at 444p, the biggest faller of the day. Sage slipped 18.5p to 459.5p, and Misys was 5p lighter at 664.5p. 

 Computer services groups Logica, off 220p, or nearly 12 per cent, at #16.30p, Dimension Data, down 28.5p at 570p, and CMG, off 77p at #10.43, were all heading in the same downwards direction. 

 CMG was hit by renewed talk of brokers reining in their profit forecasts after talking to the company. 

 John Bills, director of Commerzbank's equity markets team, said: "Valuations are high in technology in relation to the growth that has to be delivered to justify the valuations, and if anything is missed from previous forecasts people slam the shares far in excess of what is warranted." 

 Telecoms equipment and electronics groups contributed to the feeling of new-economy fallout, with Marconi 46p lower at 802p and Spirent falling 38p, or six per cent, to 610p. 

 Meanwhile, the telecoms services providers were mixed, hovering half way between the new economy and old economy sectors. British Telecom firmed 8p to 690p, Vodafone AirTouch firmed 1.25p to 253.25p, while Cable & Wireless closed 37p down at 823p. 

 There were bright spots. News that the Bank of England monetary policy committee voted by a unanimous 9-0 to keep rates on hold this month, following 5-4 split votes in the two previous months, suggested to many base rates may have peaked. 

 "It clearly means another rate increase in the short term is pretty unlikely," said Mark Ramsden, economist at Stone & McCarthy. 

 Speaking of the late afternoon recovery in London, one trader said d: "I was going to go out and sell my house at one stage this afternoon but maybe now I will hold on to it for a few weeks." 

 An optimistic trading statement from J Sainsbury, in which it was also indicated that the strategic review of its Homebase DIY business would be completed within a few weeks, saw its shares rise 25.25p, or 7 per cent, to 379p. 

 A clutch of other retailers also gained, with Boots up 31.5p, or 6 per cent, at 559p, Tesco 7p ahead at 268p, and Safeway up a penny at 275p. 

 Semiconducter developer Parthus Technologies leapt 27.5p to 296.5p after revealing it had developed a chip that could be used to power the next generation of mobile phones. 

 The big drugs groups were also ahead, with Nycomed Amersham up 13p at 623p and merging partner SmithKline Beecham and Glaxo Wellcome up 111/2p at 9161/2p and 23p at #20.48 respectively. 

 Railtrack's shares gave up 18.5p to 1006.5p after chief executive Gerald Corbett tendered his resignation in the wake of the fatal crash at Hatfield on Tuesday. 

 Elsewhere, sportswear and outdoor clothes retailer Blacks Leisure eased back 2.5p at 229p despite reporting sales ahead 6 per cent. 

 Another faller was insurance group CGNU, which slid 2p to 932p, notwithstanding upbeat nine-month figures showed it had bounced back from the cost of last year's storms in France. 

 Housebuilder Persimmon, with operations ranging from Scotland to the Thames Valley on the M4 corridor, firmed 1.5p to 202p as a line of 16.43 million shares went through the market at 190p. 

Document sc00000020010816dwaj00nqp




 'The Hoover's 50' for Week of October 16: Wireless and High-Tech Roundup; Lucent Retains Title 

988 words
19 October 2000
13:04
PR Newswire
PRN
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, PR Newswire) 

 AUSTIN, Texas, Oct. 19 /PRNewswire/ -- Lucent Technologies holds its top position in this week's Hoover's (Nasdaq: HOOV) Top 50, after announcing its third profit warning this year.  There was jockeying for new positions this week among the rest of the Top 10.  Fuel Cell Energy (9), entering into a power generation field test in conjunction with Mercedes, broke into the Top 10, up from number 16 last week.  Formerly the "Powerize 50," the Hoover's 50 is a weekly list of the companies most often researched on www.hoovers.com by Hoover's approximately three million users.  The list is derived by tracking users' searches of more than 10,000 brand name sources, including 2,400 newspapers, magazines, journals and newswires. 

 Home Depot is this week's biggest newcomer, entering the list at number 15. The do-it-yourself home improvement mecca warned of a third-quarter shortfall. Other big movers include Enron, jumping to number 24 this week, up from number 40 last week, and Verizon, moving from number 44 to number 30. Also new to this week's list are General Motors (31), Ventas (34), DoubleClick (37), NextHealth (47) and Nordstrom (48). Analysts chastised GM for losing money in Europe and Asia, with nearly all of them cutting estimates for the car maker, while DoubleClick reported a net loss for the quarter, amid concerns of a slowdown in spending on online advertising. 


The week's top 10 most researched companies: Lucent Technologies (1), JDS
Uniphase (2), Pacific Century Cyberworks (3), Nokia (4), Intel (5), Pfizer
(6), Cisco Systems (7), Advanced Micro Devices (8), FuelCell Energy (9) and
Wal-Mart (10).
  The Hoover's 50 for Week of October 16, 2000
  Rank            Company                    Last Wk
  1          Lucent Technologies                1
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693001
  2          JDS Uniphase                       2
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693002
  3          Pacific Century CyberWorks         3
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693003
  4          Nokia                              5
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693004
  5          Intel                              4
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693005
  6          Pfizer                             8
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693006
  7          Cisco Systems                      6
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693007
  8          Advanced Micro Devices            10
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693008
  9          FuelCell Energy                   16
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693009
  10         Wal-Mart                           7
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693010
  11         Qualcomm                          11
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693011
  12         Western Wireless                   9
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693012
  13         CMGI                              12
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693013
  14         Krispy Kreme                      17
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693014
  15         Home Depot                         -
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693015
  16         AT&T                              18
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693016
  17         B2 Bredband                       20
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693017
  18         WorldCom                          15
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693018
  19         EMC                               13
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693019
  20         RF Micro Devices                  21
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693020
  21         Microsoft                         14
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693021
  22         America Online                    28
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693022
  23         Motorola                          25
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693023
  24         Enron                             40
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693024
  25         Global Crossing                   22
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693025
  26         Ericsson                          38
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693026
  27         Palm                              30
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693027
  28         Iridium                           26
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693028
  29         Ariba                             19
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693029
  30         Verizon                           44
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693030
  31         General Motors                     -
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693031
  32         Network Appliance                 34
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693032
  33         Razorfish                         31
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693033
  34         Ventas                             -
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693034
  35         Nortel Networks                   24
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693035
  36         Red Hat                           43
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693036
  37         DoubleClick                        -
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693037
  38         Wells Fargo                       48
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693038
  39         ADC Telecommunications            41
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693039
  40         Cirrus Logic                      50
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693040
  41         eCRM                              36
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693051
  42         Bio-Technology                    33
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693042
  43         Rambus                            29
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693043
  44         Oracle                            27
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693044
  45         Exodus Communications             39
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693045
  46         Proton Energy Systems             23
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693046
  47         NextHealth                         -
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693047
  48         Nordstrom                          -
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693048
  49         eB2B Commerce                     32
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693049
  50         Texas Instruments                 37
             http://wwwrd.0mm.com/pwz693050
  About Hoover's, Inc.
Hoover's, Inc. operates Hoover's Online, the businessperson's portal, which
provides approximately 3 million businesspeople with timely and reliable
information and tools that allow them to make informed business decisions.  At
the core of Hoover's Online is a proprietary database of authoritative
business knowledge about the world's largest, most influential and fastest-
growing companies and industries, compiled and maintained by more than 120
writers, editors and researchers.  Hoover's proprietary searching and sorting
technology combines its database with high-quality third-party business
information, including news, a directory of business Web sites, biographical
and product information, as well as business travel, personal finance and
career tools.  Hoover's Online is also available through several Internet
services, including America Online, Dow Jones, Microsoft, Reuters and Yahoo!
Hoover's also offers content and tools integration, aggregation, and
syndication services for corporate intranets, enterprise information portals
(EIPs) and business-to-business vertical and content sites.  Hoover's
investors include Time Warner (NYSE: TWX), Media General (AMEX: MEG.A), NBC --
a unit of General Electric (NYSE: GE), and Knowledge Universe, through its
Knowledge Net Holdings and Nextera Enterprises (Nasdaq: NXRA) units.
   Contact:  Lisa Glass             Machie Madden
             Hoover's, Inc.         Middleberg Euro rscg
             512/374-4662           212-699-2719
             lglass@hoovers.com     Machie@middleberg.com


Document prn0000020010812dwaj0454c




 Dow down but off lows as IBM, CPI still press - Nasdaq up. 

 By Haitham Haddadin 
1,063 words
18 October 2000
18:10
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 18 (Reuters) - U.S. blue-chip stocks stayed in the red, but the tech-heavy Nasdaq had ventured back up onto positive ground by midday on Wednesday after substantial morning losses that pounded the Dow average to a 19-month intraday low. 

 The Dow's big downdraft was triggered in part by news of disappointing sales by computer titan International Business Machines Corp., which reignited fears that other companies would follow suit. 

 "It was a gut-wrenching opening, but a lot of investors hoped that this represented capitulation lows, there is now an attempt to bounce ... but never trust action before lunch," said Arnold Berman, technology strategist at Wit SoundView. 

 At midday, the Dow remained under the critical 10,000 mark, which was breached for the first time in seven months shortly after the opening bell. 

 Meanwhile, the technology-heavy Nasdaq Composite Index recovered from a drop of nearly 200 points, breaking onto positive ground by midday. The Nasdaq was up 16 points, or 0.52 percent, to 3,230. 

 "It was a terrible opening because the bellwether reports gave you no reason to feel conviction about anything in the world," Berman said. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average, the closely watched gauge of 30 blue-chip companies, was down 107 points, or 1.07 percent, at 9,981, off the session low of 9,654.64. The steep drop after Wednesday's opening was the first time the Dow fell below the psychologically important 10,000 watermark since March 15, 2000. 

 The intraday low the Dow reached in the morning was a level unseen since March 1999. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index also cut its losses, to down 3 points, or 0.24 percent, at 1,346. 

 The selling pressure just piled on and picked up speed after economic data early in the day showed the U.S. Consumer Price Index for September, a gauge of inflation at the consumer price level, grew 0.5 percent - exceeding the market's expectations for a gain of 0.4 percent. Rising energy prices were the culprit. This could be seen by some that the inflation-fighting U.S. Federal Reserve may not be done with its campaign of interest-rate hikes to cool the economy. 

 The New York Stock Exchange said index-arbitrage trading curbs were triggered at 1345 GMT when the Dow dropped more than 210 points 

 "I don't want to say this bounce off the bottom is important, although it is pleasant ... You need more evidence and fundamental improvement and stability to get that," Berman said. 

 Analysts said the day's performance was likely to track the slew of corporate results due on Wednesday, one of the heavier corporate reporting days, including the results of many market heavyweights and second-tier companies as well. 

 "A lot of these companies are starting to warn of single-digit revenue growth and sometimes declining revenue growth," said Peter Gottlieb, vice president and portfolio manager at First Albany Asset Management. 

 "I think the market is waking up and saying that the growth rates of these businesses aren't necessarily linear anymore." 

 But some of the plunge may have been exaggerated by mutual funds closing out books at the end of October, Gottlieb said. 

 "You have a real breakdown in a lot of stocks that have gone way beyond what people expected, and that's something that is very unnerving," Gottlieb said. "I do see a chance for a rebound. I think that you're going to see some buying." 

 Market breadth was still overwhelmingly negative, with about three stocks falling for every one that rose on the Big Board. The ratio on Nasdaq was 5 to 2 in favour of the losers. 

 IBM was still deeply in the red, but off the lows, down $17-7/16 at $96-9/16 on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Also hit hard were the interest-rate-sensitive financials, with J.P. Morgan & Co., a Dow component, last off $1-1/8 at $136-1/2, after falling more than 18 points earlier. J.P. Morgan's loss followed disappointing earnings posted Wednesday by its merger partner Chase Manhattan, which was hurt by investment losses. 

 The steep losses of IBM and J.P. Morgan, combined, accounted for two-thirds of the Dow's plunge at one point - at their lowest, lopping about 200 points off the Dow. 

 The pressure from IBM spread to related stocks, with Dow component Hewlett-Packard Co. down $2-5/16 at $88-3/16. 

 But the S&P Computer Hardware Index which tracks IBM and a host of other computer makers, continued to rebound, cutting its loss to 3.07 percent by midday from an earlier 9.81 percent plunge as some components moved back into the black. 

 A batch of negative comments on IBM came from Wall Street houses. Merrill Lynch cut IBM's 12-month price target by $14 a share to $130, while Sanford C. Bernstein told clients in a research note they should not buy IBM shares, adding "there is simply too much uncertainty" around the computing giant. 

 The IBM disappointment overshadowed better results from No. 1 chip maker Intel Corp., which reported that its third-quarter earnings rose 52 percent, topping recently lowered expectations. Intel shares were up $2-9/16 at $38-3/4, giving a boost to both the Dow and the Nasdaq. 

 Adding to the market pressure was the falling euro, the Europe's single currency, which hit another low against the dollar. The weak euro has been one of the main factors cited by big companies warning of slowing revenues and profit growth. 

 Semi-conductors were leading the Nasdaq rebound, with the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index, which groups some of Nasdaq's biggest names, up 2.93 percent. 

 The shares of WorldCom Inc., one of the Nasdaq heavyweights, rose 11 percent, up $2-1/2 at $24-5/16, after sources familiar with the firm told Reuters that the telecommunications company was likely to create a separate stock for its slow-growing consumer business rather than try to sell it. This would be cheaper than a sale, the sources said, and would enable WorldCom's data and Internet services to grow even faster. 

Document lba0000020010822dwai03zz6


 Shares Fall for Boston-Based Microchip Test Equipment Firm 

 Hiawatha Bray 
665 words
18 October 2000
Massachusetts
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 Despite record high sales and profit growth during the third quarter, shares of Boston-based Teradyne Inc. plummeted yesterday after the microchip test equipment company warned of a sales slowdown in the fourth quarter. 

 Chairman and chief executive George Chamillard said in a conference call that shipments of the company's industry-leading chip testing gear would be 2 to 4 percent lower during the fourth quarter than during the quarter just ended. 

 "It's clear that the level of uncertainty in the industry has grown in the last couple of weeks," Chamillard said. 

 Teradyne received $819 million in new orders during the third quarter, slightly off from the second quarter. While orders were up for several Teradyne product lines, orders for the company's semiconductor test equipment fell off after setting a record during the previous quarter. 

 "We believe that more time is needed for the industry to absorb the capacity that our customers have added over the last year," Chamillard said. 

 News of impending weakness at Teradyne fed the fears of investors who have already begun retreating from computer and technology stocks. The investment firm Chase H&Q cut its rating on Teradyne and several other semiconductor equipment stocks from "buy" to "market perform," and the rout was on. Teradyne fell $9.44 to $25 on the New York Stock Exchange, sinking at one point yesterday to $23. 

 Other stocks in the sector also plunged, including Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates Inc. of Gloucester and PRI Automation Inc. of Billerica. Varian's shares fell $9.34 to $21.75, while PRI's slipped $1.62 to $15 on the Nasdaq exchange. 

 The overall market reflected investor concern about weak corporate earnings in technology and other segments of the economy. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 149.09 points, or 1.5 percent, to 10,089.71, while the Nasdaq index declined 76.35 points, or more than 2 percent, to 3213.93. 

 Two top tech companies, IBM Corp. and chipmaker Intel Corp., posted gains yesterday, prior to the release of third-quarter results. Intel earned a third-quarter profit of 41 cents a share, ahead of analysts' estimates, which had been lowered because of Intel's recent warning of soft sales in Europe. Intel shares rose 50 cents to $36.19 on the Nasdaq exchange. 

 Meanwhile, IBM's profits of $1.08 per share met analysts' expectations. IBM shares rose $1.88 to $113 on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Investors weren't mollified by Teradyne's strong third-quarter performance. The company posted sales of $848 million and profits of $153.5 million, or 84 cents a share, up from 35 cents a share for the same period last year. 

 But recent warnings from Intel, and from Dell Computer Corp. and Apple Computer Inc., have spawned concerns that the worldwide computer industry is entering a slowdown. That would mean lower demand for the chips that go inside computers and the devices made to build and test those chips. 

 Nathan Brookwood, semiconductor analyst for Insight 64 in Saratoga, Calif., said these concerns are exaggerated. 

 "Last year, PC demand grew by almost 20 percent," said Brookwood. "It was way bigger than historically it has been." 

 Brookwood said PC sales are still strong, but not as strong as last year. 

 "That is being interpreted by many in the financial community as `the market is slowing,' "he said. 

 Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com, an economic consulting firm in Westchester, Pa., agreed that sales of microchip-based devices are still fairly good. But he cautioned that the continuing slump in technology stocks and the broader market will likely lead to a slowdown in the economy, as nervous consumers spend less. 

 "Does that mean they're going to become a little more circumspect in their spending? Probably," said Zandi. "I certainly expect we'll see a much less merry Christmas than we saw last year." 

Document krtbn00020010807dwai01xql




Small Stock Focus
 Nasdaq and Small Caps Tumble; ILOG Drops 26%, SangStat 21%,   

 By Larry Bauman   
Dow Jones Newswires
769 words
18 October 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
C8
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

 Corrections & Amplifications   

 INTERNET PICTURES Corp. said it had reduced its 2001 revenue outlook by 20%. Yesterday's Small Stock Focus incorrectly stated that the company had reduced its 2001 earnings outlook by 20%. (WSJ Oct. 19 2000)   

 NEW YORK -- Nasdaq and small-capitalization stocks fell sharply as investors continued to worry about the quality of third-quarter earnings.   

 The target of much of the selling in the Nasdaq and small-cap markets continues to be the technology sector. Among the various tech-sector industry groups, semiconductor and chip-related stocks have been the focus of attention.   

 But the weakness of the Nasdaq and small-cap markets was far from limited to the technology sector.   

 The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 76.49, or 2.32%, to 3213.79, and the Russell 2000 index of small-capitalization stocks, at 470.88, slid 10.87, or 2.26%.   

 Internet Pictures lost half of its market value, diving $2.13 to $2.13. The Oak Ridge, Tenn., media-technology concern said that its third-quarter revenue fell shy of analysts' projections. The company also reduced its 2001 earnings outlook by 20%.   

 Electronics For Imaging plummeted 5.19, or 30%, to 11.94. The Foster City, Calif., printing-technology concern posted third-quarter earnings that were in line with analysts' projections, but said that its fourth-quarter profit will be less than a third of what analysts had been predicting. About a third of the company's revenue comes from Xerox, which recently issued an earnings warning.   

 The American depositary shares of ILOG tumbled 13.06, or 26%, to 37.63 after the French business-software company said that its fiscal first-quarter revenue will be below that of the year-earlier period, and that its loss for the quarter will be more than twice as wide as that of a year earlier. The company said its revenue forecast reflects the absence of anticipated royalties from an independent software vendor.   

 SangStat Medical plunged 2.50, or 21%, to 9.50 after the Fremont, Calif., developer of organ-transplant drugs said that it expects to report third- and fourth-quarter losses that will be wider than analysts have been predicting. SangStat also said that it has terminated all clinical-development programs for SangCya Oral Solution, CycloTech and diagnostic or monitoring products.   

 Power Integrations fell 1.06, or 9.5%, to 10.13. The Sunnyvale, Calif., integrated-circuit company posted third-quarter earnings that fell short of analysts' projections. The company also said that its fourth-quarter revenue and net income will be 5% to 10% below third-quarter levels.   

 Sunrise Medical (NYSE) surged 2.69, or 42%, to 9.13 after the Carlsbad, Calif., medical-products company agreed to be acquired by an investor group led by the company's officers and managers for $10.00 a share in cash. A Sunrise Medical spokesman said the company will be private following the transaction.   

 GoAmerica, a Hackensack, N.J., wireless data- and Internet-services provider, gained 1.25, or 17%, to 8.50. Morgan Stanley initiated coverage of the company with a strong-buy rating.   

 Identix (Amex), a Sunnyvale, Calif., maker of fingerprint-verification products, climbed 1.51, or 14%, to 12.30, following Monday's 23% gain. The company said that it plans to send demonstration kits for its Windows-based fingerprint-identification technology to Microsoft's sales force. Monday, Compaq Computer said it would use the technology in notebook computers.   

 Puma Technologies added 1.13, or 8.7%, to 14. CIBC World Markets initiated coverage of the San Jose, Calif., software company with a rating of strong buy.   

 Seitel (NYSE) rose 1.06, or 7%, to 16.19 after the Houston seismic-information and technology company said that its third-quarter operating earnings will exceed analysts' projections, and that its revenue will be up 81% from the year-earlier period.   

 On the Nasdaq, declining issues led advancers, 2,732 to 1,207, on national market volume of 1.881 billion shares and overall volume of 1.913 billion, compared with 1.743 billion and 1.774 billion, respectively, Monday.   

 The Nasdaq Composite Index stands 36% below its March 10 record close, and the Russell 2000 small-cap index is down 22% from its March 9 all-time high.   

 "People are looking for a magic event to turn the market around," said Charles Pradilla, chief investment strategist at SG Cowen. "It won't happen."   

 What the market needs, he said, "is T-I-M-E."   

Document j000000020010807dwai00r77




 CEO of Hercules, Inc. calls it quits 

290 words
18 October 2000
19:52
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 WILMINGTON, Del. (AP) - Vincent J. Corbo, chief executive officer of Hercules Inc. since July 1999, has resigned and will be replaced by the man who presided over massive cuts in the company's work force. 

 Wall Street analysts said the move is evidence that Hercules will soon be sold. 

 Thomas L. Gossage will return as chairman and CEO, posts he held from 1991 to 1996, and will lead the company's search for a permanent CEO. 

 The Wilmington, Del.-based producer of paper-making chemicals has also issued a profit warning for the third time in the last four quarters. Hercules said it expects to earn 13 cents per share, or about $14 million, in the third quarter. Analysts had expected earnings of 21 cents per share. 

 Under Gossage's tenure, Hercules slashed its global work force from about 23,000 employees to fewer than 10,000, and its stock soared to a high of $65.75 per share in 1996. 

 Since Gossage retired, the value of company's shares has declined steadily, reaching a low of $11 in September. It closed Tuesday at $14.44. 

 In a prepared statement, Gossage said he will be evaluating the company's current restructuring and refinancing program and exploring alternatives to it. 

 "The Board believes Tom is the ideal person to lead Hercules during this critical transitional period," said Edith E. Holiday, a member of the board of directors. 

 Analysts had a different take on Gossage's duties. 

 "Tom is being brought in to oversee the orderly disposition of the company," Leslie Ravitz of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in New York told The (Wilmington) News Journal. 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

 Hercules Incorporated: http://www.herc.com

Rush

Document aprs000020010804dwai0272y


 London-Based Telecom Equipment Maker Gets Thumbs Up in Nasdaq Listing 

276 words
17 October 2000
KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Daily Mail - London
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 Britain's biggest telecoms equipment maker Marconi could have picked a better week for its listing on US techno market Nasdaq. 

 As tech stocks dived, chief executive George Simpson and finance director John Mayo, after a whirlwind roadshow tour of 15 cities in five days, have had a tense run-up to today's listing. 

 Luckily, the move is designed to raise Marconi's profile rather than new funds. The group has already landed a UKpound 1 billion contract from BellSouth for fibre-optic cable and a UKpound 100 million deal from Sprint for long-distance switching systems. 

 Since changing its name from GEC and selling off its aerospace arm to BAe in November 1999, Marconi has been on a roll. 

 Contracts have included a UKpound 2 billion order from BT for broadband equipment. Its purchase last year of US equipment group's Reltec and Fore Systems, for UKpound 4.4 billion, gave it 17,000 employees and 40 percent of its business in the US. 

 "This will send a strong message to our US customers," says Marconi. 

 Analysts gave the listing the thumbs-up. "The timing could have been better with hindsight -- but they're not raising new money, so it's not really an issue," said one. 

 "The US is a huge priority --it's the largest market for telecoms. They plan overall expansion, further acquisitions that will bring in new products and technologies." 

 Marconi rose 30 pence to 870 pence but is still far below its 1250 pence peak in September, not helped by telecoms systems operator Lucent's recent profit warning. 

Document krtbn00020010807dwah01x0k




 Wall Street roars back with 157.60 points gain. 

467 words
15 October 2000
The Times of India
TOI
English
 (c) 2000 The Times of India Group

 NEW YORK: Wall Street staged an explosive comeback on Friday as robust results from high-tech companies and bullish comments from a top Wall Street analyst emboldened investors to snatch up battered stocks. 

 The bullish comments came from Goldman Sachs' chief strategist, Abby Joseph Cohen, who reckoned the market's recent slump was overdone and makes stocks a good buy, especially because a strong US economy will keep boosting corporate profits. 

 The technology-packed Nasdaq Composite Index soared 241.74 points, or 7.86 per cent, to close unofficially at 3,316.42, after Thursday's mauling of 94 points took it to the 

 lowest level since early November 1999. The Nasdaq snagged its second-largest per centage gain ever. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average, the closely watched gauge of 30 blue-chip companies, roared up 157.60 points, or 1.57 per cent, at 10,192.18. On Thursday, the Dow suffered its fifth-largest point slide ever and settled at its lowest level since March 14, 2000. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index climbed 44.32 points, or 3.33 per cent, to 1,374.10, after hitting its lowest close to date this year in the prior session. 

 The market was hit by a bombshell profit warning from home improvement retailer Home Depot on Thursday and turmoil in the Middle East. News that tension overseas has subsided and red-hot oil prices have eased somewhat also helped today's rally. 

 Late Thursday, three key companies - networking chip maker PMC-Sierra Inc, Internet infrastructure company Juniper Networks and computer maker Gateway Inc. - reported good results, which analysts said sparked a surge in several related stocks. 

 "The fact that there's less tension in the Middle East today is 'Reason No. 1' behind the rally, and then Juniper and Gateway and PMC-Sierra. Those were three nice calls," said Uri Landemans, chief investment officer at AFA Management Partners, which manages about $400 million. 

 Stronger-than-expected inflation numbers cast an early shadow on stocks. 

 The Labor Department said the Producer Price Index, which measures prices paid to the nation's factories, farms and other producers, rose 0.9 per cent in September after a drop of 0.2 per cent in August. The increase was driven by a 3.7 per cent rise in energy costs. Excluding volatile energy and food prices the PPI was up 0.3 per cent. 

 Gateway rallied $9.48 to $53.11 after its profits met analysts' expectations, while Juniper Networks, which posted better-than-expected results as sales jumped more than sixfold, rose $28-57/64 to $228-1/2. PMC-Sierra climbed more than 20 per cent, up $32 to $190-7/16 after its earnings tripled.(Reuters). 

Document toi0000020010818dwaf013bh




High-tech shares dumped.

By Garth Alexander in New York. 
1,329 words
15 October 2000
The Sunday Times
ST
English
© 2000 Times Newspapers Ltd. All rights reserved 

Investors are abandoning Nasdaq companies reporting poor results. The index has fallen a third from its March peak, writes Garth Alexander in New York

OCTOBER is a cruel month for shares - and this year is no exception with the spectre of a Middle East war and soaring oil prices throwing investors around the world into turmoil.

After weeks of profit warnings and sharp declines in individual shares America's 10-

year bull market appears to be grinding to a halt. The technology-heavy Nasdaq index has fallen for three weeks and is now down 19% for the year and 34% lower than its March peak.

Although the economy remains strong, corporate profits are slowing faster than expected and fears are growing that the economy could be in for a hard landing.

Investors are still pouring money into shares but have shown little tolerance for companies with poor results. Shares in dozens of well-known companies have fallen by a third or a half after warning that they will disappoint analysts.

Fred Hickey, editor of the High Tech Strategist newsletter, says: "They are taking out one stock at a time and shooting them - one by one by one. First it was Lucent, then Intel, then Motorola, then Yahoo. These are the biggest companies in their fields."

With many stocks still trading at high earnings multiples analysts feel the downside risks are great. Merrill Lynch's Dick McCabe thinks the technology sell-off has some way to go. "We're probably going to see the Nasdaq go below 3,000," he says. "But investors are complacent about the risks. They have been conditioned, like Pavlovian dogs, to expect a rebound."

The Nasdaq fell to 3,074 on Thursday but rebounded 242 points on Friday to 3,316. The Dow Jones also rallied to close at 10,192 but it is still 11% down on the year.

Bob Adler at AMG Data Services, which tracks mutual-fund cashflows, says: "We've been unable to detect any fear in the market. There's no panic at this point. The decline seems to be orderly and relentless."

Many analysts claim the bull market, which celebrated its 10th anniversary last week, is still intact. But that is based on the Dow's performance, not Nasdaq's. In the once-popular tech sector investors have cut back. AMG says investors now focus on big-company and growth funds, not tech funds. In the first quarter 28% of new investment ($32billion out of $113billion) went into tech funds. By the third quarter that had fallen to 9.5% ($3.8billion out of $40billion).

Behind the disillusionment lies a slowdown in computer and telecommunications sales. Problems at Dell and AT&T are spreading to other parts of the high-tech economy. A profit warning from Apple sliced 52% off its shares three weeks ago. A warning from Dell slashed 30% off its stock. These and other companies complain about slowing sales, particularly in Europe where the weak euro is cutting profits.

Gartner Dataquest thinks the personal-computer market is reaching saturation and could even contract; as many as 60% of American homes already have PCs and International Data Corp predicts American sales will grow only 12.2% this year, against 23.8% last year and the 15%-20% rate projected by most manufacturers.

The slowdown is affecting component makers, such as Intel, which makes microprocessors for 80% of PCs. Intel's shares lost nearly half their value last month after Craig Barrett, chief executive, said third-quarter revenue growth was below forecasts.

Many telecoms shares have halved in the past year as changing technologies and greater competition have cut call costs and profits. The casualties include AT&T, WorldCom and Sprint while start-ups such as ICG Communications and Teligent have lost more than 90% of their value. The plunge has put a damper on their plans to raise cash to expand, and this in turn has hit equipment suppliers such as Cisco and Lucent.

As more start-ups and bigger companies run into financial problems, and even bankruptcy, their suppliers are facing losses from the credit extended to customers. Shares in Lucent, which has extended $1.85 billion of credit, fell a third last week after its third profit warning this year and they are now 67% below their March level. Meanwhile Cisco, Ericsson, Nokia and Nortel are all owed $1billion or more by clients.

Investors want to be rid of Richard McGinn, Lucent's boss, who has repeatedly promised to fix its problems. But while some problems appear specific to Lucent, which was spun off from AT&T in 1996, they also reflect a general slowdown in orders. Shares of Nortel and JDS Uniphase were dragged lower by Lucent's news.

The damage extended to Wall Street firms. Morgan Stanley shares fell early in the week on rumours that it had lost $1 billion on bonds issued to telecoms start-ups. The fear of big junk-bond losses quickly spread to other houses, including Goldman Sachs, Lehman Brothers and Merrill, all of which saw their shares tumble.

Morgan Stanley said the losses were exaggerated and would not materially affect earnings. But the telecoms tumble could affect the fees Wall Street expects to make from takeovers. Terra Networks, the Spanish internet service provider, may not be able to complete its purchase of Lycos, the American net portal, after its shares fell 40% last week. Deutsche Telekom might have to renegotiate its purchase of America's VoiceStream Wireless.

Adding to last week's fears of escalating costs and inflation was a surge in oil prices, which briefly reached $37 a barrel. With the latest figures showing unemployment at a 3.9% low, economists expect growing pressure for increased wages.

On Thursday, as Israeli helicopters bombed the Gaza strip and terrorists attacked an American destroyer in Yemen, a profit warning from one of America's most popular companies helped send the Dow into one of its steepest dives this year. Home Depot, the home-improvement giant, said profits would fall short in the third and fourth quarters. Wal-Mart and other retailers fell as investors concluded the Federal Reserve's six interest-rate rises since mid-1999 were finally making consumers tighten their purse strings.

Home Depot said the shortfall was caused mainly by a fall in lumber prices but its shares still fell from $49 to $35.

Even companies that reported strong earnings have been punished by critical investors who had expected better. Yahoo, founded by Jerry Yang and David Filo, beat analysts' forecasts but said a decline in dotcom advertisers had limited growth and might continue to do so. The shares fell 30% to $60 and are now more than 76% below their January peak.

The autumn is typically tough for the market as mutual-fund managers sell losing stocks to minimise gains and tax payments before the end of their fiscal year on October 31.

For this and other reasons some analysts remain upbeat.

Charles Biderman at Trim Tabs, which charts mutual-fund flows, believes the market is near a bottom because liquidity has been improved by the postponement of new issues.

He says: "The market is really a function of liquidity. The total float of shares kept shrinking from 1994 to 1999, so the market tripled. The float began to increase from November last year but new offerings have been shrinking dramatically and we probably could have a rally here."

Morgan Stanley's Byron Wein says: "This year earnings are catching up with valuations. Rationality is returning to the market. I don't think we're going to have a big correction."

But a Middle East war and fresh oil-price rises could make the optimists think again.

America can shrug off any setback, page 4

Steer clear of US dotcom disaster,

Money, section 6, page 6

(c) Times Newspapers Ltd, 2000. 

Document st00000020010817dwaf00hfk




 Gloom sinks HSI as Nasdaq rallies. 

 BY Clara Li. 
607 words
15 October 2000
South China Morning Post
SCMP
English
(c) 2000

 Hong Kong's stock market experienced heavy selling pressure last week, mainly due to the adverse trading sentiment in overseas markets after warnings about United States corporate earnings and concern over rising oil prices. 

 The GEM index fell to 354.6 points on Friday - an all time low since the index's creation in March. 

 From a peak of 1,021.74 on March 22, the GEM has plunged more than 60 per cent during the past seven months. 

 More than 70 per cent of GEM-listed companies have seen their share price fall below the IPO price. 

 The Hang Seng Index at one point on Friday sank below 14,500 level after the Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 3.6 per cent the day before, triggered by the escalating violence in the Middle East. The Hang Seng Index ended the week at 14,680.5, down 9.3 per cent from the week before. 

 Leading blue chips HSBC and China Mobile fell 8 per cent and 15.3 per cent, caused by profit taking on their recent gains. 

 In the US, the technology heavy Nasdaq Composite Index soared 242.09 points, or 7.87 per cent, to end at 3,316.77 on Friday, after Thursday's profit warning from home improvement retailer Home Depot took the index to its lowest closing level since early last November. 

 It was the Nasdaq's second-biggest percentage gain after the 7.94 per cent jump on May 30 this year. Over the week, the Nasdaq held steady with a moderate drop of 1.3 per cent. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 157.60 points on Friday to close the week at 10,192.18, reversing part of Thursday's 379-point slump. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index also recovered 44.39 points to close at 1,374.17 on Friday, 2.48 per cent down from the week before. 

 The rally in the US market was stoked by the easing of oil prices and bullish comments from Goldman Sachs' chief strategist Abby Joseph Cohen, who said the recent market slump had been overdone and had made stocks a good buy. 

 Given the strong rally of the US equity markets, analysts expect the Hong Kong market to follow suit tomorrow. 

 "We also expect a similar recovery at the beginning of the week, especially for technology stocks," said James So, research director of Asia Financial Securities. 

 However, analysts also warn investors to be cautious, given the uncertainty in the market ahead of a series of US economic figures such as CPI and external trade to be released this week, the political tension in the Middle East and towering oil prices. 

 Mansion House Securities believes the Hang Seng Index will test its technical support at 14,500 again this week. If more bad news came to the market, the index could drop to a new low at the 13,800-14,000 level. On the upside, analysts said the Hang Seng Index could meet resistance at 15,500. 

 In London, the FTSE-100 Index edged 2.85 per cent lower and closed at 6,209.60 on Friday. The market recovered for two consecutive days from a recent low on Wednesday as a telecommunications-led recovery and gains on Wall Street outweighed concerns about the Middle East crisis. 

 In Tokyo, the Nikkei-225 Index fell to 15,101.64 points at one stage - the lowest since March 9 last year - and ended at 15,330.31 for the week, 4.15 per cent lower than the week before. 

Document scmp000020010816dwaf00nxm


INVESTING: 'Basis points' help measure stock's rise, fall

1,036 words
15 October 2000
Kitsap Sun
KITSAP
F01
English
Copyright 2000 Scripps Howard Publishing, Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

Motley Fool "ASK THE FOOL

Q: What are ""basis points""? And when I see that a stock is up or down some amount, from where or what is up or down? - J.J.K., Philadelphia

A: Basis points are one

A: Basis points are 1/100ths of a percentage point and are often mentioned when talking about interest rates. So if you hear that something is down 50 basis points, that means it's down half a percentage point.

Next question. When you hear that shares of the Hatch Survival Co. (ticker: FISHH) are down 212, that means they're off $212 from where the stock ended at the previous close of trading. So if FISHH closed at $55 per share yesterday and it's trading around $5212 right now, it's down 212.

Q: What is a recomm ended procedure for calculating annual return when there have been multiple purchases of a stock over time? - Charles Stadelman, El Cerrito, Calif.

A: You're referring to the ""internal rate of return"" (IRR). If you invest $1,000 and it grows to $2,000 in one year, your holdings advanced 100 percent. (Congrats!) If you invest $1,000, though, and then add $500 midyear, and then end the year with $2,000, your holdings didn't appreciate by 100 percent. Part of that gain is simply from the midyear cash infusion.

Calculating an internal rate of return can be a very complicated matter. One shortcut is to plug your numbers into a spreadsheet on your computer and to use its IRR function to do the math for you. Another possibility is to enter your portfolio into an online portfolio tracker that calculates IRR, such as our free one at www.portfolio.fool.com.

To learn more, go to an online search engine such as www.google.com and type in ""internal rate of return.""

The Fool Take

Intel's Angst

With the rise of the Internet, as the killer application in the technology sector, investors are watching a fundamental shift of power away from the stronghold of Intel chips and Microsoft software. The two giants are moving to remain a central part of our technology lives, though. Consider Intel.

After it issued a profit warning several weeks ago, shares are down about 50 percent. Investors are worried that slowing PC growth will leave Intel behind. That's why the company has worked feverishly over the last 18 months to diversify into Internet hardware and communications chips.

Intel has reached a turning point for the second time in its history and is starting to de-emphasize the desktop PC processor. It's directing more of its resources toward new initiatives. Processors are still an important source of cash, but if you look ahead five years, it's easy to see how they could be much less so.

Trading at a price-to-earnings ratio of 24 (based on next year's expected earnings), Intel's shares are available at a seldom-seen price. The question investors have to answer is whether Intel can remain a fast-growing powerhouse. Over the last decade, its earnings have increased at a compound annual rate of 30 percent. Intel doesn't have to match those levels, though, and with $7.3 billion in net income last year, it just won't happen. But are analysts right to expect 20 percent long-term earnings growth? Does Intel have the right vision and products? It's worth investigating.

Dumbest Investment

Regrets, I've Had a Few

I owned 250 shares of Cisco about six years ago. I sold them and bought bonds. My wife and I are both registered users of eBay. We could have bought several hundred shares of it for less than $5 each (split-adjusted) - the shares are around $70 each today. Back in 1991, one of my sisters (who worked at LDDS, which is now MCI Worldcom) told me to invest in a few hundred LDDS shares. I said, ""Naa - no company from Mississippi will do any good."" My mom bought stock in America Online about four splits ago and suggested I do the same. I said, ""Mom, I really want a new truck."" I owned 100 shares of Oracle about 18 months or so ago. Sigh.

- J.B., on Fool.com

The Fool Responds: Ask yourself why you sold out of some holdings prematurely, and why you didn't buy others. A little analysis of your mistakes might help you avoid additional regrets. Look for companies you know well, be patient with promising stocks and don't underestimate Mississippi!

FOOLISH TRIVIA

Name That Company

I came to life in 1902 as a knitting mill in Alexander City, Ala., but today I'm headquartered in Atlanta. My first finished product was a ladies' undershirt.

I began making fleece-lined sweatshirts in 1930 and developed tear-away jerseys in 1967. In 1992 I became the official supplier of uniforms for Major League Baseball. I rake in more than $1 billion per year and employ more than 15,000 people. I'm the largest supplier of athletic team uniforms in the United States, and I produce enough yarn each week to make more than 100 trips to the moon. My brands include Jerzees and Cross Creek. Who am I?

Know the answer? Send it to us with Foolish Trivia on the

top and you'll be entered into a drawing for a nifty prize!

Last week's trivia answer

Based in Plano, Texas, I was founded in 1962 by a salesman named Ross Perot. With more than 120,000 employees and 9,000 customers in some 55 nations, I'm one of the world's top computer management and services company and also engage in e-business consulting. I've served clients in such industries as communications, energy, chemicals, financial services, government, retailing, travel, transportation and healthcare. I developed technology to print photos of cars running red lights onto tickets, an inventory tracking system for 7-Eleven stores and a customer relationship management system for Saturn. Other clients have included Chevron and the U.S. Department of Defense. Who am I? (Answer: EDS"

Document KITSAP0020100221dwaf00au6




 Shares up as investors put fears behind them. 

865 words
14 October 2000
The Scotsman
SC
6
English
(c) 2000

 STOCKS rebounded strongly yesterday from year-lows as investors put behind them fresh inflation pressures and rising tensions in the Middle East to focus on bullish comments from one of Wall Street's most influential market watchers. 

 The recent market slump is overdone and makes stocks a good buy, especially because a strong US economy will keep boosting corporate profit growth, according to Abby Joseph Cohen, Goldman Sachs' chief strategist. 

 Stronger-than-expected inflation numbers cast an early shadow on stocks, when government data showed the Producer Price Index, excluding volatile energy and food prices, rose 0.3 per cent in September. Economists had expected the index to increase just 0.1 per cent. 

 But the major market indices quickly charged into positive territory to register their first gains in seven sessions. The tech-packed Nasdaq Composite Index exploded nearly 7 per cent higher after a brief dip to be in sight of its sixth-largest ever percentage gain. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average, the closely watched gauge of 30 blue chip companies, was up more than 150 points or 1.55 per cent at 10,189, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index gained more than 3 per cent to reach 1,371 as the market shrugged off profit warnings from the likes of DIY retailer, Home Depot, as well as fears over a slowing US economy and weak euro. 

 Donald Berdine, chief investment officer at PNC Advisors, said: "This is clearly a bounce in terms of yesterday's activity. We may see some more sell-offs based on short-term events, but we look at it as an opportunity to buy great companies off 50 to 60 per cent from their highs." 

 On Thursday, a profit warning from home improvement giant Home Depot Inc, which lost a third of its value, and a surge in oil prices provoked by Middle East violence sent stocks spiralling. 

 George Rodriguez, senior vice-president at Guzman & Co, said: "The market sold off dramatically over the last few days. There is a feeling many of the names out there are way oversold." 

 Wall Street has also been plagued by fears that a soft European single currency, high energy prices and a softening US economy will dampen corporate growth. 

 Technology heavyweights provided a bright note and oil prices eased off their lofty levels during yesterday's session. 

 Gateway rallied more than $9 to $53 after its profits met analysts' expectations, offering battered investors relief after warnings from other PC makers. 

 International Business Machines Corp, the world's largest computer maker, rose 4-11/16 to 108-9/16. Intel Corp, the world's largest chip maker, jumped 3-1/4 to 40-3/8. Computer giant Hewlett-Packard climbed 5 to 88-11/16. All three boosted the Dow. 

 Juniper Networks, a maker of internet routers which has gained ground against Cisco Systems, posted better than expected results late on Thursday as sales surged more than sixfold. Juniper's stock rose 13-17/64 to 212-7/8, while Cisco, the world's biggest maker of computer networking equipment, gained 3-3/16 to 53. 

 Networking chip maker PMC-Sierra rose more than 9 to 167-7/8 after its profits tripled. 

 Financial stocks, which had been slammed on Thursday, staged a comeback. Citigroup gained 3-5/16 at 50-1/16, while JP Morgan climbed 7-7/8 to 143-7/8 - both supporting the Dow. 

 Guzman's Rodriguez said: "I would call this a cautious rebound as opposed to the start of strengthening." 

 He continued: "We run the risk something unforeseen will happen in the Middle East. We still have the Euro which can affect earnings, and we have a slew of leaders reporting bad numbers." 

 The market bucked the bad news on inflation. Prices at the wholesale level rose more than expected last month, intensifying investors' worries about nascent inflation. 

 Peter Cardillo, the director of research at Westfalia Investments, said: "These are horrible numbers, and the real horrible number is the core rate." 

 But investor optimism was fuelled by figures showing higher than expected retail sales last month, and the number of shares being traded on the main market was well up on the previous Friday. 

 The Dow, a gauge of 30 leading companies, dived 379.21 points, or 3.64 per cent, on Thursday to end at 10,034.58, its fifth-largest point slide ever and its lowest close since 14 March. 

 The Nasdaq finished at 3,074.68, its lowest close since Nov. 4, 1999. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index slumped 34.81 points, or 2.55 percent, at 1,329.78, in its lowest close to date this year. 

 Most US Treasuries edged lower yesterday as stock prices rebounded from the previous day's steep losses and surprisingly strong reports on wholesale prices and consumer spending stoked concerns about inflation. 

 But the market's losses were relatively modest as investors stayed sheltered in the haven of US government debt, amid jitters that the stock market could resume its slide and Middle East turmoil could unravel world energy markets. 

Document sc00000020010816dwae00k3k




BUSINESS
TECH STOCKS LEAD MARKET REBOUND; DOW REGAINS PART OF THURSDAY'S LOSS AS OIL PRICES SETTLE DOWN

HAITHAM HADDADIN, Reuters *  The Associated Press contributed to this article.   
602 words
14 October 2000
Charlotte Observer (NC)
CLTO
ONE-THREE
1D
English
Copyright 2000 The Charlotte Observer. All rights reserved.   

Technology stocks staged a spectacular rally on Friday, chalking up their second-largest percentage gain ever, as upbeat results from key high-tech companies emboldened investors to snatch up battered stocks.

The technology-packed Nasdaq composite soared 242.09 points, or 7.87 percent, to end at 3,316.77, after Thursday's mauling took the index to its lowest closing level since early November 1999. It was the Nasdaq's second-biggest percentage gain after the 7.94 percent jump on May 30. It also was the index's third-largest single-day point gain.

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 157.60 points, or 1.57 percent, to 10,192.18, as it reversed part of Thursday's 379-point slump.

The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index advanced 44.39 points, or 3.34 percent, to 1,374.17. The rally also was stoked by easing oil prices and bullish comments from Goldman Sachs' chief strategist, Abby Joseph Cohen, one of Wall Street's top analysts. The market's recent slump is overdone and makes stocks a good buy, especially because a strong U.S. economy will keep boosting corporate profits, she said.

The technology sector got a boost Friday from PMC-Sierra, Juniper Networks and Gateway, all of which reported earnings that beat analysts' expectations.

Investors pushed stocks higher despite new economic data that could re-ignite inflation worries. Wholesale prices shot up 0.9 percent in September, the sharpest increase in seven months, led by big jumps in the cost of gasoline and heating oil, according to the Labor Department.

The market on Thursday was hit by a bombshell profit warning from home improvement retailer Home Depot and turmoil in the Middle East that sent oil prices soaring.

But news that the tension has subsided somewhat also helped fuel Friday's rally.

Wall Street has been plagued recently by fears that a soft European single currency, high energy prices and a softening U.S. economy will dampen corporate growth. Oil prices retreated more than $1 a barrel on Friday.

"The market sold off dramatically over the last few days," said George Rodriguez, senior vice president at Guzman & Co. "There is a feeling many of the names out there are way oversold."

But like others on the Street, Rodriguez called it "a cautious rebound" as opposed to the start of strengthening.

"We run the risk something unforeseen will happen in the Middle East," Rodriguez said. "We still have the euro, which can affect earnings, and we have a slew of leaders reporting bad numbers."

*

*

Nasdaq's Best


   Top percentage increases

    1. May 30, 1987  - 7.94 percent

   2. Oct. 13, 2000  - 7.86 percent

   3. Oct. 21, 1987  - 7.34 percent

   4. April 18, 2000  - 7.19 percent

   5. April 17, 2000  - 6.56 percent


   Top point increases

   1. April 18, 2000  - 254.41 to 3,793.57 (7.2 percent)

   2. May 30, 2000  - 254.37 to 3,459.48 (7.9 percent)

   3. Oct. 13, 2000  - 241.74 to 3,316.42 (7.9 percent)

   4. June 2, 2000  - 230.88 to 3,813.38 (6.4 percent)

   5. April 25, 2000  - 228.75 to 3,711.23 (6.6 percent)


Information box(es) appear(s) at end of text.

Photo Associated Press photo: A trader prepares for a day of trading before the opening bell on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange Friday.   

Document CLTO000020090630dwae015jr




 U.S. stocks blast higher in wake of ugly sell-off. 

 By Denise Duclaux 
712 words
13 October 2000
18:01
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 13 (Reuters) - Stocks rocketed higher in midday trading on Friday as investors latched onto bullish comments from one of Wall Street's most influential market watchers, scooping up shares driven to lows for the year. 

 The recent market slump is overdone and makes stocks a good buy, especially because a strong U.S. economy will keep boosting corporate profit growth, said Goldman Sachs' chief strategist, Abby Joseph Cohen. 

 Stronger-than-expected inflation numbers cast an early shadow on stocks, when government data showed the Producer Price Index - excluding volatile energy and food prices - rose 0.3 percent in September. Economist had expected the index to increase just 0.1 percent. 

 But the major market indexes quickly charged into positive territory. The tech-packed Nasdaq Composite Index exploded 127.89 points higher, or 4.16 percent, at 3,202.57 after a brief dip. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 146.51 points, or 1.46 percent, at 10,181.09. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index gained 30.19 points, or 2.27 percent, at 1,359.97. 

 "This is clearly a bounce in terms of yesterday's activity," said Donald Berdine, chief investment officer at PNC Advisors. "We may see some more sell-offs based on short-term events, but we look at it as an opportunity to buy great companies off 50 to 60 percent from their highs." 

 On Thursday, a profit warning from home improvement giant Home Depot Inc. and a surge in oil prices sparked by East violence sent stocks into a tailspin. 

 "The market sold off dramatically over the last few days," said George Rodriguez, senior vice president at Guzman & Co. "There is a feeling many of the names out there are way oversold." 

 Wall Street has also been plagued by fears that a soft European single currency, high energy prices and a softening U.S. economy will dampen corporate growth. 

 Technology heavyweights provided a bright note and oil prices eased off their lofty levels on Friday. 

 Gateway Inc. rallied $6.55 to $50.18 after its profits met analysts' expectations, offering battered investors relief after warnings from other PC makers. 

 International Business Machines Corp. , the world's largest computer maker, rose $4-11/16 to $108-9/16. Intel Corp. , the world's largest chip maker, jumped $3-1/4 to $40-3/8. Computer giant Hewlett-Packard Co. climbed $5 to $88-11/16. All three boosted the Dow. 

 Juniper Networks Inc. , a maker of Internet routers that has gained ground against Cisco Systems Inc. , late on Thursday posted better than expected results as sales surged more than sixfold. Juniper's stock rose $13-17/64 to $212-7/8, while Cisco, the world's biggest maker of computer networking equipment, gained $3-3/16 to $53. 

 Networking chip maker PMC-Sierra Inc. rose more than $9 to $167-7/8 after its profits tripled. 

 Financial stocks, which had been slammed on Thursday, staged a comeback. Citigroup gained $3-5/16 at $50-1/16, while JP Morgan climbed $7-7/8 to $143-7/8 - both supporting the Dow. 

 "I would call this a cautious rebound as opposed to the start of strengthening," Rodriguez said. "We run the risk something unforeseen will happen in the Middle East. We still have the Euro which can affect earnings, and we have a slew of leaders reporting bad numbers." 

 The market bucked the bad news on inflation. Prices at the wholesale level rose more than expected last month, intensifying investors' worries about nascent inflation. 

 "These are horrible numbers, and the real horrible number is the core rate," said Peter Cardillo, director of research, Westfalia Investments. 

 The Dow, a gauge of 30 leading companies, fell on Thursday a whopping 379.21 points, or 3.64 percent, to end at 10,034.58 - its fifth-largest point slide ever and its lowest close since March 14, 2000. 

 The Nasdaq finished at 3,074.68, its lowest close since Nov. 4, 1999. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index slumped 34.81 points, or 2.55 percent, at 1,329.78, in its lowest close to date this year. 

Document lba0000020010822dwad04ab3




 UPDATE 1-Goldman's Cohen says slump overdone, stocks good buy. 

 By Brinley Bruton 
575 words
13 October 2000
16:41
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 (Updates market and PPI numbers and adds new Cohen comments throughout) 

 NEW YORK, Oct 13 (Reuters) - The recent stock market slump is overdone and makes stocks a good buy, especially because a strong U.S. economy will keep boosting corporate profit growth, one of Wall Street's most influential stock analysts, Goldman Sachs' Abby Joseph Cohen, said on Friday. 

 The Standard & Poor's 500 stock index - which closed on Thursday at 1325.21 - is undervalued by 15 percent, said Cohen, who has been one of Wall Street's most bullish market-watchers. She reiterated her year-end S&P 500 Index target of 1575. 

 "Importantly, our economic outlook still calls for real GDP growth averaging 3 percent to 4 percent in coming quarters, close to the trend rate suggested by productivity gains and labour force growth," Cohen said in a research note sent to clients and the press. 

 Falling stock prices have made valuations more attractive, she said. 

 The S&P 500 index rebounded in morning trading, rising 1.6 percent to 1,351.09. The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average also moved into positive territory to hit 10,119. The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite rose almost 2 percent in morning trading, after falling 3 percent to 3,074 on Thursday. 

 Stocks on Thursday hit year-lows on escalating violence in the Middle East, which sent oil prices surging. The market was also spooked by a warning of yet another brand-name company, U.S. home improvement retail giant Home Depot Inc. that profit growth would slow. 

 Recent corporate earnings warnings, which have sent shivers through the markets, are overshadowing solid profit growth at many companies, Cohen said. The warnings in part are spurred by new rules that will require companies to disclose financial information to the public, instead of to a select group of analysts and money managers, she added. 

 A series of companies issued earnings warnings during the last week, including chemicals concern Union Carbide Corp and technology giant Motorola Inc.. 

 While the pre-announcement period - the time when companies tend to issue negative announcements in preparation for the upcoming earnings period - is largely over, it is still too early to properly analyse third-quarter results, Cohen said. However, of the companies that have announced, more than 70 percent have reported above expectations, she said. 

 Along with the falling stock prices have come improved valuations, said Cohen. Goldman's valuation for the S&P 500 has assumed there will be a moderation in profit growth to about 8 percent from 20 percent, and a rise in core inflation, Cohen said. 

 On Friday the U.S. government announced that the Producer Price Index, a key gauge of inflation at the wholesale level, rose 0.9 percent in September, vs. expectations for a 0.5 percent rise. 

 Goldman already predicted that there would be a deceleration in the pace of economic and profit expansion before the end of the year, Cohen said. 

 "It would appear that investors' feverish wish of last winter, for a less robust economy, has been fulfilled," she said. 

 As for escalating violence in the Middle East, which helped fuel Thursday's sell-off partly on fears that it would push energy prices up, Cohen said Goldman had not changed its baseline scenario in which energy prices would begin to decline next spring. 

Document lba0000020010822dwad04a94




 Long shadow over stocks. 

 By MEREDITH BOOTH and REBECCA HOLMES. 
428 words
13 October 2000
Adelaide Advertiser
ADVTSR
30
English
(c) 2000 Advertiser Newspapers Limited

 NEWS Corp cast a long shadow over positive smaller stocks, dragging the share market down $6.2 billion yesterday. Sparked by slides in US markets, News Corp shaved 6 per cent in value taking the all ords 32.7 points lower to 3180.4. 

 Australia's dollar also suffered, closing for the first time below US53c, dragged down by a plummeting New Zealand dollar in late trade. 

 Analysts said a sell-off in tech stocks in the US, including a 13 per cent fall in Internet portal Yahoo! forced many Australian investors into defensive stocks. 

 "A lot of middle range stocks performed very well," Macquarie Day Cutten division director Danny Watson said. 

 Insurer AMP, Brambles, Lend Lease, Woolworths and Fosters Brewing all enjoyed share price gains. 

 But Wall Street's influence on News Corp pushed the stock down $1.50 to $20.90 and preferred scrip $1.21 to $17.60, accounting for about 18 points of the all ords fall. 

 "Analysts are downgrading earnings and with Nasdaq coming down obviously that effects News in America," Mr Watson said. 

 "We would expect Nasdaq to bounce before long but these companies are still on very high multiples." 

 Resources stocks were also weaker with WMC, BHP and Rio Tinto closing in negative territory and gold miner Normandy suffering a 5c drop to 93c. 

 "The gold sector on the whole has probably been caught in a general resources downturn," said Ord Minnett client adviser Matt Wilkinson. 

 He said the decline was largely due to weaker base metal prices and the institutional market's move towards defensive industrial stocks. 

 "Also, a lot of takeover speculation is rapidly petering out," he said, pointing to Rio Tinto's refusal to place a higher bid for Ashton Mining. 

 "And WMC came out with a profit warning and continues to be sold off very heavily. We think that WMC has probably been over sold." 

 In currency markets, the $A slumped to its lowest close at US52.99c alongside a record low for the Kiwi dollar of US39.67c, although it moved up to US53.10c last night. 

 A Bank One foreign exchange trader said competition watchdog, the New Zealand Commerce Commission, rejected Royal Dutch Shell's takeover of Fletcher Challenge Energy, taking the wind out of the Kiwi dollar's sails. 

 "The Aussie dollar is in the same basket of currencies as the Kiwi ... it just dragged the Aussie down," the trader said. 

 "There's just no real reason to buy Australian dollars at the moment." 

Document advtsr0020010803dwad00394


Newscast: Business news and stock report   

441 words
13 October 2000
CBS News: Morning News
CBSM
English
(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

JULIE CHEN, anchor:   

On the CBS MarketWatch, picking up the pieces after dramatic losses on Wall Street. Alexis Christoforous has details.   

ALEXIS CHRISTOFOROUS reporting:   

October is turning out to be a scary month for Wall Street. Rising tensions in the Middle East and more high-profile profit warnings spooked investors, sending stocks to their biggest slide in six months. The Dow finished at its lowest level since March, closing at 10,034, while the NASDAQ finished at its lowest level of the year.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Stock Slide   

Dow Closed 10,034.58   

NASDAQ Closed 3,074.68   

CHRISTOFOROUS: The escalating violence in the Mideast sent waves of fear through the market, causing jittery investors to dump stocks with a vengeance.   

Ms. MARY FARRELL (PaineWebber): Certainly the problems with energy had already been causing a lot of concern on Wall Street. Then, with an escalation of the conflicts in the Middle East, the potential for terrorism there, that really made the fears about energy pricing going up and what that would mean for consumer spending.   

CHRISTOFOROUS: We saw crude oil rally $3 to nearly $36 a barrel, and now there's talk that crude could top $40. Financial stocks even took a hit on concern that those rising oil prices will spark inflation.  Citigroup and  JP Morgan were among the worst hit.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Financial Tumble   

Citigroup (C)  JP Morgan

down 2.75 down 10.38 46.75 to 136.44   

CHRISTOFOROUS: And the parade of profit warnings marched on.  Home Depot got hammered, down nearly 30 percent, after sounding a profit warning thanks to rising lumber prices.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Home Depot (HD)   

down 14.06 to 34.88   

CHRISTOFOROUS:  Hasbro also joined the fray. It said profit will disappoint in part because of weak demand for its Pokemon toys.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Hasbro (HAS)   

down 1.56 to 10.06   

CHRISTOFOROUS: And  Bausch & Lomb warned of soft profits. The contact lens maker is also slashing 4,500 jobs to cut costs.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Bausch & Lomb (BOL)   

down 1.56 to 37.50   

CHRISTOFOROUS: Now there were a few rays of sunshine. After the bell, Gateway and DoubleClick each posted profits that matched estimates. And  Juniper Networks beat the Street by 8 cents a share.   

But analysts say until this cloud of uncertainty is lifted from Wall Street, until the Middle East situation is resolved and the elections are behind us, we're likely to see more down days ahead. At the NASDAQ Marketsite, I'm Alexis Christoforous, CBS MarketWatch.   

CHEN: For late market information, click on cbs.marketwatch.com.   

Document CBSM000020070818dwad002s2




NEWS
Markets Dive, Oil Prices Soar On News of Mideast Violence

David Lazarus, Chronicle Staff Writer   
1,049 words
13 October 2000
The San Francisco Chronicle
SFC
FINAL
A1
English
Copyright 2000. Hearst Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

Wall Street took a severe pounding yesterday as heightened tension in the Middle East, including an apparent terrorist attack on a U.S. Navy destroyer, sent oil prices surging to almost a 10-year high.

The prospect of higher oil prices raises the possibility of a rise in inflation and, in turn, another increase in interest rates. Some economists and analysts believe the slowing U.S. economy could in fact plunge into a recession.

"It's too early to say we're in a recession," said Michael Lehmann, an economics professor at the University of San Francisco. "But in my view, a recession is likely."

The Dow Jones Industrial Average tumbled 379.21 points, or 3.6 percent, to close yesterday at 10,034.58. It was the fifth-biggest point drop ever for the benchmark index.

The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite index fell 93.81 points, or 3 percent, to 3,074.68 -- its lowest close of the year. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 index dropped 34.81 points to 1,329.78.

SCARE FROM HOME DEPOT

The Dow's carnage was partly attributable to a profit warning from do-it-yourself giant Home Depot, which said its second-half earnings will fall short of analysts' estimates. The company's shares nose-dived 29 percent to $34.88.

Home Depot was only the latest in a growing line of corporate heavyweights spooking investors with diminished expectations. Intel Corp., Apple Computer and Lucent Technologies have been among the dozens of firms that have issued profit warnings in recent weeks.

Financial stocks also posted hefty declines yesterday amid fears that banks and brokerages could be saddled with enormous losses resulting from the market's downturn.

"A recession is a distinct possibility," said Bill Meehan, chief market analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald in New York. "Consumers and corporations took on a huge amount of debt during the earlier expansion."

Increased violence in the Middle East caused oil prices to jump more than 8 percent -- the biggest one- day gain in more than two years.

Crude oil for November delivery climbed $2.81 to close at $36.06 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Crude oil prices have soared 20 percent this week alone, and some analysts already are predicting $40 a barrel within days.

Higher oil prices could reduce consumer spending and cut even more deeply into corporate profits.

PARTY COULD BE OVER

They could also turn the "soft landing" sought by the Federal Reserve for the U.S. economy into a head-on collision if the current slowdown in growth causes the economy to sputter or even contract.

"I believe it will happen in the near future," said University of San Francisco's Lehmann. "The market has reached the top, and this could be the beginning of a serious correction.

"We drank a bottle of tequila," he added. "Now it's time for the hangover."

However, Lehmann readily admitted that he tends to be "a bit gloomy" when it comes to economic forecasting. Other observers sounded a somewhat more optimistic note, albeit a cautious one.

"The market is telling us we may be headed for a very serious slowdown in economic growth," said Douglas Cliggott, chief investment strategist at J.P. Morgan Securities in New York. "It's a good time for investors to sit back and watch for a while."

But Kevin Caron, associate equity strategist at Gruntal & Co. in New York, insisted that yesterday's selling spree on Wall Street was an expected response to uncertainty abroad.

"This is a buying opportunity," he said. "The fundamental conditions for equities are still very solid."

SOME SEE OPPORTUNITY

Many individual investors, accustomed to snapping up stocks at fire- sale prices whenever the market tanks, seem to feel the same way.

"It's a great time to jump in," said Kate Schult, a Gap Inc. employee in downtown San Francisco. "If I'm going to be buying stock, this is the time to do it."

"The stock market will be fine," agreed Michael Rodriguez, a drugstore salesman in the Financial District. "I'm in it for the long haul, so this drop doesn't make a difference to me."

A big question for many investors is what will happen to tech stocks, which have fueled much of the market's gains in recent years and comprise a big chunk of many people's portfolios.

The Nasdaq, which skyrocketed more than 80 percent last year, is now down 24 percent since January and 39 percent from its March 10 record high of just over 5,000.

Cantor Fitzgerald's Meehan echoed other analysts in saying that many tech companies, including some of the biggest names in the business, are still overpriced relative to their earnings.

"These are great companies, but they were priced for high growth for many, many years," he said. "They should be priced for a more reasonable multiple of earnings."

As for the dot-coms that have borne the brunt of investors' newfound contempt for any firm without a rock-solid bottom line, Meehan said the bulk of the damage in the sector already has been done.

"The real crappy ones are bankrupt, and the next tier is down 95 percent," he said with only slight exaggeration.

Meehan dismissed the notion of a "new economy" in which profitability, or a lack thereof, has no impact on a company's value.

"It's not a new economy," he said. "It's a global economy, and the global economy is not as robust as it was six months ago."

J.P. Morgan's Cliggott said many of the so-called smokestack stocks comprising the Dow appear reasonably priced at current levels, while the Nasdaq remains "very rich."

He said tech stocks probably have more room to come down before hitting bottom.

"There are still more tech wrecks out there," observed Joe Turner, a San Ramon money manager. But this hasn't deterred him from putting together a shopping list.

"There are an awful lot of stocks now selling at attractive levels," Turner said.

E-mail David Lazarus at dlazarus@sfchronicle.com. Chronicle staff writer Verne Kopytoff contributed to this report.

Document SFC0000020120703dwad002ws


Business
Investors turn October into scary month  

CP
827 words
13 October 2000
The Cambridge Reporter
TCMR
A6
English
Copyright (c) 2000 The Cambridge Reporter.  

Toronto -- The Dow fell 379.21 points to 10,034.58, a 3.7 per cent decline.  

The Nasdaq composite was down 93.81 points to 3,074.68 - its lowest close of 2000. The Standard & Poor's 500 index was off 34.81 to 1,329.78.  

It was the Dow's fifth-largest point loss ever, made worse by rising oil prices and disappointment in corporate profits, including an earnings warning from Home Depot.  

"In an already nervous market, this is all we didn't need," said Al Goldman, an analyst with A. G. Edwards & Sons Inc. in St. Louis. "A terrorist attack, increased hostilities in the Middle East and a spike in oil prices - shake it all up and you get blind dumping of stocks."  

Canada's key market measures also retreated.  

The Toronto Stock Exchange 300 composite index fell 118.08 points, or 1.16 per cent, to 10,026.9 after briefly dipping below 10,000 near the close.  

The TSE index last closed below 10,000 on June 14, after moving over the 10K threshold on March 24 and hitting an all-time peak of 11,388.82 on Sept. 1. It has sunk almost 12 per cent since then.  

Adding to the gloom, the Canadian dollar closed at 66.2 cents US, down 0.21 from Wednesday's close - and its lowest close since dropping to 66.19 cents US on May 24.  

The western-based Canadian Venture Exchange index posted its eighth-straight losing session: down 59.59 points at 3,297.6.  

"We're getting bitten," said Fred Ketchen, chief of equities trading at Scotia Capital Markets in Toronto. "All this talk about higher oil prices and the expectation of an influence on inflationary pressures in the world lead people to think the U.S. Federal Reserve will raise interest rates again.  

"I don't think there's a pinch of truth to that, at least not in the short term, but nevertheless that's the way people think."  

Bank shares dropped with the increase in rate concerns, pushing the TSE's financial services group to a 3.37 per cent decline. TD Bank lost $1.50 to $39.70; Royal Bank fell $1.50 to $42.50.  

Reflecting a traditional phenomenon in market upheavals, the gold sector soared 4.69 per cent, led by Barrick Gold's $1.45 gain to $22.15. The oil and gas sector advanced 1.81 per cent.  

But Home Depot's warning seemed to shake Canadian retailers: Sears Canada fell $3.95 to $27, Canadian Tire dipped 40 cents to $17.40 and Hudson's Bay Co. was off 75 cents to $13.25.  

Imax Corp., the Toronto-based giant-screen movie company, tumbled $15.25 to $6.55 after issuing a profit warning. Said Ketchen: "Good grief. That's what you call going from colour to black and white in a hurry."  

Seagram Co. slipped $2.85 to $81.60 after a newspaper reported the takeover by Vivendi may be stopped by European regulators.  

Among technology stocks, market heavyweight Nortel Networks dropped $1.45 to $90.50. Widely held BCE Inc. fell $1 to $35.25 and Research In Motion slid $7 to $137, but Ballard Power Systems bounced up $8.45 to $139.95.  

Eleven of the TSE's 14 groups fell. The gold and precious minerals group was the biggest gainer, up 4.69 per cent. The paper and forest products group was the biggest decliner, off 4.74 per cent.  

Decliners outnumbered advancers 636 to 430 with 297 unchanged in trading of 155.5 million shares worth $3.9 billion. The TSE 100 fell 7.83 to 626.98.  

Among the most active CDNX companies, Fuel Cell Technologies climbed 67 cents to $2.85, Sovereign Chief Ventures 34 cents to $3.65; Meteor Technologies slipped 27 cents to $1.38, Toxin Alert 35 cents to $1.30.  

World oil prices were as high as $37 US a barrel at one point on the New York Mercantile Exchange, approaching its recent 10-year high of $37.80, hit last month. In afternoon trading, crude futures were at $36.10.  

Shares of Home Depot plunged $13.94, or 28 per cent, to $35 US after it warned of lower-than-expected earnings.  

The news sent other U.S. retailers down as well, including Wal-Mart, which fell $1.19 to $44.13. Financial stocks also suffered; J.P. Morgan, a Dow component, fell $10.38 to $136.44.  

Fears that higher oil costs would hurt airlines sent Continental Airlines down $2.81 at $41.13. Airplane manufacturer Boeing fell $4.06 to $56.13.  

U.S. technology stocks were mixed. Advanced Micro Devices rose 31 cents to $22.13 after its earnings beat expectations. But Yahoo! tumbled again on worries about future earnings, falling $8.75 to $56.63.  

Document TCMR000020051224dwad00clb




Business
Markets take a beating; Investors jittery  

James Dalziel  
The Canadian Press
866 words
13 October 2000
The Hamilton Spectator
HMSP
Final
B01
English
Copyright (c) 2000 The Hamilton Spectator.  

Toronto -- The Dow fell 379.21 points to 10,034.58, a 3.7 per cent decline.  

The Nasdaq composite was down 93.81 points to 3,074.68 -- its lowest close of 2000. The Standard & Poor's 500 index was off 34.81 to 1,329.78.  

It was the Dow's fifth-largest point loss ever, made worse by rising oil prices and disappointment in corporate profits, including an earnings warning from Home Depot.  

"In an already nervous market, this is all we didn't need," said Al Goldman, an analyst with A.G. Edwards & Sons Inc. in St. Louis. "A terrorist attack, increased hostilities in the Middle East and a spike in oil prices -- shake it all up and you get blind dumping of stocks."  

Canada's key market measures also retreated.  

The Toronto Stock Exchange 300 composite index fell 118.08 points, or 1.16 per cent, to 10,026.9 after briefly dipping below 10,000 near the close.  

The TSE index last closed below 10,000 on June 14, after moving over the 10K threshold on March 24 and hitting an all-time peak of 11,388.82 on Sept. 1. It has sunk almost 12 per cent since then.  

Adding to the gloom, the Canadian dollar closed at 66.2 cents US, down 0.21 from Wednesday's close -- and its lowest close since dropping to 66.19 cents US on May 24.  

The western-based Canadian Venture Exchange index posted its eighth-straight losing session: down 59.59 points at 3,297.6.  

"We're getting bitten," said Fred Ketchen, chief of equities trading at Scotia Capital Markets in Toronto. "All this talk about higher oil prices and the expectation of an influence on inflationary pressures in the world lead people to think the U.S. Federal Reserve will raise interest rates again.  

"I don't think there's a pinch of truth to that, at least not in the short term, but nevertheless that's the way people think."  

Bank shares dropped with the increase in rate concerns, pushing the TSE's financial services group to a 3.37 per cent decline. TD Bank lost $1.50 to $39.70; Royal Bank fell $1.50 to $42.50.  

Reflecting a traditional phenomenon in market upheavals, the gold sector soared 4.69 per cent, led by Barrick Gold's $1.45 gain to $22.15. The oil and gas sector advanced 1.81 per cent.  

Home Depot, Sears, Imax: B2  

General Motors: B8  

But Home Depot's warning seemed to shake Canadian retailers: Sears Canada fell $3.95 to $27, Canadian Tire dipped 40 cents to $17.40 and Hudson's Bay Co. was off 75 cents to $13.25.  

Imax Corp., the Toronto-based giant-screen movie company, tumbled $15.25 to $6.55 after issuing a profit warning. Said Ketchen: "Good grief. That's what you call going from colour to black and white in a hurry."  

Seagram Co. slipped $2.85 to $81.60 after a newspaper reported the takeover by Vivendi may be stopped by European regulators.  

Among technology stocks, market heavyweight Nortel Networks dropped $1.45 to $90.50. Widely held BCE Inc. fell $1 to $35.25 and Research In Motion slid $7 to $137, but Ballard Power Systems bounced up $8.45 to $139.95.  

Eleven of the TSE's 14 groups fell. The gold and precious minerals group was the biggest gainer, up 4.69 per cent.  

The paper and forest products group was the biggest decliner, off 4.74 per cent.  

Decliners outnumbered advancers 636 to 430 with 297 unchanged in trading of 155.5 million shares worth $3.9 billion. The TSE 100 fell 7.83 to 626.98.  

Among the most active CDNX companies, Fuel Cell Technologies climbed 67 cents to $2.85, Sovereign Chief Ventures 34 cents to $3.65; Meteor Technologies slipped 27 cents to $1.38, Toxin Alert 35 cents to $1.30.  

World oil prices were as high as $37 US a barrel at one point on the New York Mercantile Exchange, approaching its recent 10-year high of $37.80, hit last month. In afternoon trading, crude futures were at $36.10.  

Shares of Home Depot plunged $13.94, or 28 per cent, to $35 US after it warned of lower-than-expected earnings.  

The news sent other U.S. retailers down as well, including Wal-Mart, which fell $1.19 to $44.13. Financial stocks also suffered; J.P. Morgan, a Dow component, fell $10.38 to $136.44.  

Fears that higher oil costs would hurt airlines sent Continental Airlines down $2.81 at $41.13. Airplane manufacturer Boeing fell $4.06 to $56.13.  

U.S. technology stocks were mixed. Advanced Micro Devices rose 31 cents to $22.13 after its earnings beat expectations. But Yahoo! tumbled again on worries about future earnings, falling $8.75 to $56.63.  

Photo: THE ASSOCIATED PRESS | CNBC reporter Tom Costello ponders his report from the Nasdaq site in New York yesterday. Nasdaq closed at its lowest level this year.  

Document HMSP000020051120dwad00fqz




News and Features
Wall Street worry

PHILIP RENNIE   
759 words
13 October 2000
BRW
BRW
Late
41
English
Copyright 2000. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.   

THE MARKETS

The world's strongest economy could become a victim of its own success.

Earnings downgrades, particularly by technology companies, are posing a challenge for the United States stockmarket. The full extent of profit disappointments for the September quarter remains to be seen, but every company issuing a warning that analysts were expecting too much has been punished. If there is much more bad news, investors may become nervous, and October is a dangerous month for markets to be edgy.

Historically, the price/earnings multiple for the S&P 500 has been 14-15. The present figure is more like 30. Such exalted multiples are not necessarily dangerous, as long as the stellar earnings growth on which they are predicated is achieved, and it promises to be sustained. Corporate America's dream run in earnings in the past decade has produced the greatest stockmarket boom in history. Low inflation and interest rates helped, of course, but earnings have been the big story, especially this year while interest rates have been rising.

The question is how long the economy can sustain 15-20% profit growth now that the obstacles have emerged: high oil prices, higher interest rates, a slowing

US economy and the strong US dollar. Productivity gains arising out of technology, and intense cost-cutting, help to offset interest rates, oil prices and the easing in economic growth.

The strong greenback is another matter. US multinationals that get a large part of their profit from Europe, Latin America and Asia (that is, many of the big US stocks) are taking a hit as euro earnings are converted into US dollars. Gillette was one of the first to announce that the weak euro meant an earnings warning for the September quarter. It will be paradoxical if the greenback's surge, in no small measure caused by the stockmarket boom, puts that boom in danger.

Another problem for US investors is slow computer sales. Intel, the world's leading maker of semiconductors, warned late last month that September-quarter revenue would not meet estimates, due mainly to weak demand in Europe. The initial market response was to mark down the Intel stock price by 20%.

Dell Computer Corporation, another bulwark tech stock, fell sharply after warning about fourth-quarter earnings, blaming weak sales in Europe. There was also a weakening in sales to small-business customers. Although the software giant Oracle had recently given an upbeat presentation on future prospects, it was hammered on October 3 on rumors of lower earnings, although when Oracle reaffirmed its strong outlook, the stock bounced.

A few days earlier, Apple Computer warned that profits would fall far below forecasts. Amazingly, its stock price was halved. Apple's problem is not so much the computer market generally as the fact that its own new products have not matched the sales forecasts. Apple is mainly a maker of personal computers, so its woes should not be seen as reflecting the trend in business computing. Nevertheless, the computer boom is vital to the US stockmarket boom and doubts cannot be taken lightly, particularly if they indicate a danger that the general technology take-up will be slower than expected. Many new products, the success of which is being taken for granted, are approaching the launch pad.

The earnings warning by the copier equipment maker Xerox, sent its stock price down 20%, underlining how sensitive investors are to earnings disappointment.

One of Wall Street's most influential commentators, Abby Joseph Cohen of Goldman Sachs, rode out boldly on October 3, declaring that the fall in tech stocks was overdone. She said the US economic slowdown would prolong the growth and profitability of business. As to profit warnings, she said they were no worse than usual. Tech stocks rose on this reassurance; but with unhappy timing, IBM announced later the same day that its third-quarter earnings would be disappointing, and the Nasdaq exchange dipped.

September was a very poor month for industrial and tech stocks in the US. The Dow Jones 30 Industrials, the S&P 500 and the Nasdaq composite lost ground in what is often a down month. Whether October will be a recovery period remains to be seen. As October 20 comes around, markets will be sensitive that this is the anniversary of the 1987 crash. That does not mean the US markets will have a further correction soon, but it might not be an ideal time for releasing bad news, such as earnings disappointments.

Document BRW0000020111227dwad000ds




 US panic accelerates market falls. 

 By Fleur Anderson. 
570 words
13 October 2000
Courier Mail
COUMAI
33
English
(c) 2000 Queensland Newspapers Pty Ltd

 INVESTORS' panic over poorer-than-expected corporate earnings in the US market spilled into the Australian sharemarket yesterday, dragging it lower for the seventh consecutive session. The local market lost more than 1 percent after market heavyweight News Corp mirrored another sell-off on Wall Street's technology-laden Nasdaq market. Traders said News Corp's 6.7 percent plunge accounted for about half of the All Ordinaries' 32.7 point tumble to 3180.4. The ASX200 index fell 34.2 points to 3226.5, its lowest level in almost three weeks. Resource stock also took a hammering, forcing the market indices lower while investors flooded back to safehaven financial stocks. The Australian dollar was also battered, teetering near its record low of US52.8. The currency appeared ready to break above US53.7 yesterday before the New Zealand dollar dropped to a record low of US39.7. For now, the fortune of the Aussie is tied to the Kiwi dollar, which yesterday dragged the local currency to US52.95. 

  The catalyst for the latest plunge was a decision by the NZ Commerce Commission to reject a bid by Shell Exploration to buy one of NZ's few remaining corporate giants, Fletcher Challenge Energy. "The New Zealand news is quite bearish because it blocks foreign investment in New Zealand and that's something both New Zealand and Australia are desperate for," Commonwealth Bank foreign exchange manager John Basile said. The only respite for the two currencies would be a fall in the value of the US dollar that yesterday appeared to waver on the back of continuing weakness in US equity markets. In New York, the Nasdaq plunged as much as 137 points after telco equipment maker Lucent Technologies warned it would miss earnings expectations for the third time in four quarters. Nasdaq finished 72.05 points, or 2.2 percent, lower at 3168.49 and had lost 16 percent in value since September 28. 

 The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average also dropped more than 1 percent under the weight of negative sentiment. US investors have become exceedingly sensitive to any disappointment in corporate earnings and this week even punished companies that delivered better-than-expected profits. While Lucent lost 32 percent after its profit warning, web portal giant Yahoo! was smashed 20 percent despite posting a better-than-expected third-quarter result. 

 In the local market, heavyweight News Corp dropped $1.50 to $20.90, its lowest level since August 1. US starts market drop 

 From Page 33 

 News Corp preferred scrip was 6.4 percent weaker at $17.60. Wilson HTM institutional dealer Ben Skubris said the media giant was oversold in Australia, considering its local stock closed 10 below its US-listed American Depositary Receipts. News Corp is now 20 percent below its September 28 peak while the Nasdaq is only 16 percent down over the same period. Local investors continued to bale out of telco and technology stocks, although Telstra and Cable & Wireless Optus attempted to rally yesterday after a telco sell-off in London on Wednesday. In the resources sector, the resurgence in "old economy" stocks failed to ignite miners WMC, Pasminco and MIM. WMC tumbled 6 percent to $7.20, after warning of a lower second-quarter profit. MIM lost 4.9 percent to 98 and Pasminco was 2.3 percent weaker at 85. 

Document coumai0020010805dwad000vw




 ON24 Audio Investor Alert: CEO: Intel's  Profit Warning  Will Not Affect SST 

102 words
13 October 2000
03:39
Business Wire
BWR
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Business Wire) 

 --(BUSINESS WIRE)-- 

 Silicon Storage Technology's CEO Bing Yeh highlights the factors behind the company's Q3 results. 

 For the complete streaming audio story users should access http://www.on24.com/index.html?id=40823&type=av&ref=bizwire. 

 Ticker: (NASDAQ:SSTI) 

 Company: Silicon Storage Technology 

 To personalize your free audio/video investor alerts visit http://www.on24.com

 To view other online streaming audio and video investor releases, visit http://www.on24.com. 

Document bwr0000020010804dwad04hup




 Imax shares sink 70%, flirt with 5-year low. 

 Etan Vlessing; Chad Graham 
270 words
13 October 2000
Hollywood Reporter
HLYW
5
ISSN: 0018-3660; Volume 365; Issue 11
English
 Copyright 2000 Gale Group Inc. All rights reserved. COPYRIGHT 2000 VNU Business Media 

 Shares of Canadian exhibitor Imax Corp. plummeted more than 70% on Thursday as investors became fed up with the exhibitor, which had warned that it will miss third-quarter and year-end profit forecasts. 

 Imax, which operates more than 200 big-screen theaters worldwide, was the worst-performing stock in U.S. markets, closing the day at 4.28, near a five-year low on the Nasdaq. In Toronto, the company's shares fell CAN$15.25 ($10.10) to CAN$6.55 ($4.35). Imax shares normally trade in the range of CAN$20 ($13.30) to CAN$43 ($28.59). 

 In July, Imax's stock reached a 52-week high after the company put itself up for sale. But its performance has followed that of the beleaguered movie exhibition industry, and the combination of short selling and fears that the sale could be halted added to the sensational free fall. Prudential Securities on Thursday downgraded the stock to "hold" from "strong buy." Executives at Imax, who have said that third-quarter results will be only slightly off fore- casts, were unavailable for comment Imax's third-quarter results are expected in November. 

 "The financial state of the commercial exhibition industry continues to worsen and impact our delivery schedules," Imax co-CEOs Richard Gelfond and Bradley Wechsler said earlier this week when they released the profit warning (HR 10/12). 

FULL TEXT VNU eMedia, Inc. THIS IS THE FULL TEXT: COPYRIGHT 2000 VNU Business Media Subscription: $175.00 per year. Published daily (5 times a week).

Document hlyw000020010806dwad009rv


Newscast: Business news and stock report   

487 words
12 October 2000
CBS News: Morning News
CBSM
English
(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

JULIE CHEN, anchor:   

On Wall Street, more gloom and doom as stocks sank pretty much across the board.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Dow Jones Industrials   

10,413.79 down 110.61   

Volume: 1,387,580,000   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

CHEN: The Dow lost 110 points, ending the day at 10,413.   

(Graphic on screen)   

NASDAQ   

3,168.49 down 72.05   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

CHEN: The NASDAQ continued its swoon, down 72 points to 3,168.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Toyko Nikkei Index   

15,550.64 up 37.07   

Change: up 0.24%   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

CHEN: In Tokyo overnight, the Nikkei was up just a fraction.   

On the CBS MarketWatch, more bad news--more on bad-news October. Alexis Christoforous has details.   

ALEXIS CHRISTOFOROUS reporting:   

Welcome to October, the month when stocks tend to scare even the hardiest of investors. The once high-flying NASDAQ is now down 22 percent this year. The last time it had a worse year, it fell 35 percent. That was back in 1974.   

Earnings continue to be the biggest hurdle for the markets. In just the past six weeks, blue chip tech companies including Apple,  Intel and  Dell warned that sales or profits would disappoint.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Lucent Technologies (LU)   

down 10.12 to 21.25   

CHRISTOFOROUS: And `the bad news bears' in this latest session included  Lucent Technologies. It tanked more than $10 after sounding its third profit warning this year.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Motorola (MOT)   

down 4.81 to 21.24   

CHRISTOFOROUS:  Motorola joined in. While earnings were in line with estimates, the company said slower cell phone sales would hurt profit in the fourth quarter and next year.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Yahoo (YHOO)   

down 17.31 to 65.38   

CHRISTOFOROUS: And  Yahoo! was pummeled, down more than $17. Although earnings beat the Street, advertising sales weren't as strong as expected.   

And although these are scary times for investors, some market experts remain bullish.   

Mr. ALAN SKRAINKA (Edward Jones & Co.): From all the evidence that we can see, the economy seems to be still strong, inflation's still low. And I think it's important that long-term investors stay the course, stay invested and look for opportunities when the market does pull back as it is right now.   

CHRISTOFOROUS: Well, Wall Street could take its cue from  Advanced Micro Devices. After the bell,  Intel's main rival unleashed profit of 64 cents a share. That's two pennies better than estimates, but perhaps even more important, AMD gave a rosy outlook for future profits. At the NASDAQ MarketSite, I'm Alexis Christoforous, CBS MarketWatch.   

CHEN: For the latest on the markets, click on cbs.marketwatch.com.   

Straight ahead on the MORNING NEWS, your Thursday morning forecast; and some tense moments for the Yankees and their fans, but an avalanche of hits allows the Yanks to breathe a bit easier.   

(Announcements)   

Document CBSM000020070818dwac002rk




Business
TSE sinks to 3 1/2-month low on fears of poor profits  

James Dalziel  
Canadian Press
466 words
12 October 2000
Kitchener-Waterloo Record
TKWR
Final
F01
English
Copyright (c) 2000 Kitchener-Waterloo Record.  

Nortel, which many observers expected would benefit from rival Lucent Technologies' profit warning, lost $4.30 to close at $91.95. The stock was down $7.20 at midday.  

On Wall Street, the tech-focused Nasdaq composite index lost 72.05 points to 3,168.49. The index hit a late-morning level of 3,103.53 -- the lowest reading since last November. The Nasdaq finished more than 35 per cent off its March 10 closing high of 5,048.62.  

The Dow Jones industrial average fell 110.61 to 10,413.79, a mild recovery from its 157.97-point drop earlier in the day. The Standard & Poor's 500 index was off 22.43 at 1,364.59.  

The western-based Canadian Venture Exchange dropped 56.37 points to 3,357.19.  

The Canadian dollar closed at 66.41 cents US, down 0.26 cents from Tuesday's close.  

The TSE 300 could be heading toward a 600-point decline over the next few weeks, said Katherine Beattie, senior technical analyst at Standard & Poor's MMS in Toronto.  

"I think the Nasdaq is going back to 3,023, its May 25 low," Beattie said. "That will put pressure on Nortel, which in turn will put pressure on the TSE.  

"I think we're going (down) to at least 10,000 points and we could easily hit that tomorrow. That's a psychological level, and if you make hoopla about it passing above 10,000 you have to make hoopla about it breaking back below it."  

Among other well-known high-tech firms caught in the downturn were: Research In Motion, off $9.50 to $144; Ballard Power Systems, $7.80 to $131.50; Certicom, $6.95 to $53.05; JDS Uniphase, $6.40 to $129.75, and 724 Solutions, $6 to $53.50.  

Bucking the trend was QLT Inc., up $6.80 at $82.80. The biotech firm reported 22 per cent growth in its sales of its Visudyne vision treatment.  

In New York, the market fell sharply again after Lucent warned of disappointing third-quarter results. And even positive earnings reports from high-profile companies failed to stanch the selloff.  

Lucent ended the day down $9.88, or 31 per cent, at $21.50 US. Canadian-based Nortel will report its quarterly earnings Oct. 24.  

"I wouldn't say we've hit bottom necessarily, but we've hit an extreme," said Chris Dickerson of Global Market Strategists in Gainesville, Ga.  

The Nasdaq moved into positive territory briefly in the afternoon, buoyed by gains in Microsoft, which finished up $1.19 at $55.75 US, and Cisco Systems, up six cents at $51.19.  

Document TKWR000020060205dwac00g9m




Market tripped by US  profit warning 

GEOFF FOSTER  
755 words
12 October 2000
Daily Mail
DAIM
1ST
81
English
(c) 2000  

NASTY Nasdaq brought the London stock market to its knees again. Down 115 points overnight, it plummeted 137 more at one stage following a shock profits warning from US telecoms supplier Lucent. Its UK equivalent techMARK 100 nosedived another 178 points in sympathy and after that there was only one way for the Footsie to go. It dropped 149.6 before closing 130.1 points down at 6117.6.  

Superstitious bears roared that there is more grief to come. Tomorrow is Friday the 13th and next Thursday sees the 13th anniversary of the 1987 market crash.  

They know that if the present trend continues, Sunday's City columns will be full of yet more gloomy predictions about further heavy falls. It happens every year.  

While bulls appreciate that there is increasing global nervousness about fading growth and disintegrating profits, particularly in the US where Wall Street fell 173 points early on, before bouncing they are relatively relaxed.  

They expect markets to be twitchy at this time of year and are keeping a low profile. They say the market is oversold and are ready to buy in a big way should the Footsie drop to, or below, 6000.  

Telecoms equipment groups were demoralised by Lucent's warning.  

Bookham Technology plummeted 404p to 2460p and Marconi 57p to 839p. Other notable Footsie tech casualties included Logica 167p off at 1980p, Baltimore 48p at 561p, Sema 68p at 1102p, and Spirent 31p at 647p.  

Among the biggest FTSE 250 fallers were Telework which fell 471/2p to 270p, Guardian IT 1721/2p to 9871/2p, Geo International 1671/2p to 11121/2p and Staffware 225p to 25121/2p.  

Mobile phone giant Vodafone's 14 1/2p drop to 2341/2p accounted for more than 43 points of the Footsie's fall. Cable & Wireless lost 46p to 864p and British Telecom 31p to 6961/2p.  

Bright spots were generally confined to perceived defensive stocks. Tobacco giant Imperial gained 231/2p to 6631/2p, while BOC firmed 27 1/2p to 887 1/2p and Cadbury Schweppes 10p to 429p.  

Banks remained friendless on competition worries. Halifax, which put the cat among the pigeons with new low-interest credit cards and a current account offering 4pc interest against 0.1pc from other big banks, lost 251/2p to 500p, for a two-day decline of 47p.  

Royal Bank of Scotland, which owns NatWest, fell 41p further to 1299p a twoday drop of 159p. Looks overdone to me.  

Reflecting their 'safe haven' status and a firmer crude price, oils gushed.  

Crude rose to $32.60 a barrel after US heating oil stocks fell unexpectedly, renewing concern about a winter shortage. Shell advanced 16p to 5971/2p and BP Amoco 11 /2p to 638p.  

Lasmo, the UK's second-biggest oil exploration and production company, rose 73/4p to 1431/4p, while Enterprise added 35p to 600p. Cairn Energy improved 6p to 185 /2p following news that Fidelity International has 4.3pc.  

Powderject, which develops needle-free powder injection of drugs, soared 661/2p to 729p. Buyers appeared after it renegotiated its agreement on the manufacture of Aviron's intranasal flu vaccine, FluMist.  

Aviron will now make $15m initial payments to Powderject, with a further $4m per annum for five years.  

Rumours that a tasty deal is in the oven at cooker group Stoves lifted the shares 51/2p to 351/2p. Silverslaggan AB, a Swedish company owned by Per Gyllenhammar, and his own family interests hold a combined 16.5pc. Interim profits fell sharply from Pounds 865,000 to Pounds 55,000. It blamed cheap imports.  

Household goods group Cornwell Parker edged up 1/2p to 45p on talk of an imminent bid from bed company Silent-night, 31/2p cheaper at 174p.  

The dropping of plans to take the company private through a management buyout left control systems group Roxspur 12p down at 221/2p, after 19p.  

Knowledge exchange systems specialist Orbital Software Systems performed well on its debut. Placed at 145p by broker Beeson Gregory, it touched 170p before closing at 1601/2p.  

* EVERY Wednesday from now on, broker Dresdner Kleinwort Benson will come up with an 'Idea of the Week'. Hugh McAlister yesterday advised clients to buy Ian Gowrie-Smith's drugs group SkyePharma up to 140p. They did, chasing it 41/2p higher to 671/2p on a dull day. Turnover swelled to 8.1m. The March peak was 190p and the recent low was 461/2p.  

945995851

Document DAIM000020061017dwac00fxj




Chanticleer
NYSE feeling a lot more relaxed

John Durie, in New York   
1,291 words
12 October 2000
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
Late
52
English
Copyright 2000. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.   

One year ago, incumbent stock exchanges around the world were under attack, led by new technology sponsored by member investment banks, which was said to threaten their very existence.

As New York Stock Exchange chief Dick Grasso jokes: "We have been just about to go out of business for 34 of the 33 years I have worked here."

Right now in the US, the New York Stock Exchange is unconcerned about its future, with the investment banks that were on its back taking a much lower profile.

The No 1 one task for Grasso is to shepherd in the switch to the decimalisation of its trading.

Since August, after spending about $US50 million ($94 million) to upgrade its systems to allow the transfer from trading in fractions to decimal points, it has trialled 57 stocks just to see how the process works before a full launch either late this

year or early next year.

Only at this time next year will Grasso consider just what sort of corporate structure the exchange should have and this will depend in part on how competitive the climate appears.

He is privately chuffed at the fact he has achieved the big switch to decimalisation ahead of his US rival Nasdaq, which, after spending about $US200 million on upgrading its system, won't be introducing the landmark change until March next year, with a planned full launch in early April.

Last year Nasdaq won the public- relations war, which it transferred into a $US37 million launch of its branch office complete with a huge neon sign smack in the middle of Manhattan's Times Square.

The comment at the time was that maybe this money was perhaps better devoted to making sure its systems worked.

Nasdaq is, however, pushing forward with a demutualisation, with a planned $US110 million private placement next year to be followed, all going well, with a public listing.

The apparently more relaxed attitude from the NYSE is due in part to the fact that its member firms that were making all the noise last year in bankrolling potential rival exchanges have backed off, more comfortable with some changes and a more responsive attitude from the Big Board.

While new membership numbers are down on year-ago figures, Grasso is a lot more comfortable with his future, with 150 new companies added to the membership in the past year, more than 40 of them being converts from Nasdaq and 70 foreign companies, combined with a net profit of $US75.2 million on revenues of $US735.5 million and an expanded state-of-the-art trading floor ready to roll.

The big uncertainty now is how the switch to decimalisation will affect volume and how trading commissions will affect stock exchange revenues.

While trade spreads will narrow, volume will also increase, which should boost NYSE revenue.

US investment banks are sceptical about the chances of the much talked-about global mergers of world stock exchanges, noting that ego and country pride will be the impediments as evidenced by the recent split in the German and London stock exchanges.

But Grasso still talks up the prospect of alliances, which will at least initially maintain domestic exchanges, and says that by the end of the first quarter next year he will be ready to unveil the next step of his global alliance team, which includes the Australian Stock Exchange.

Right now, it seems that with Europe having its own problems and the US 120 per cent focused on its own market, Dick Humphry at the ASX is best advised to put all his eggs in a regional expansion.

Australian corporates were impressed with their annual outing at the Merrill Lynch Australian Conference in New York, noting that even the almighty Capital was in attendance with its own suite at the conference venue for private talks with the attendees.

Such is the power of the US fund manager that normally Australian companies rush cap in hand to wherever it is located in an attempt to push their stories. But this time it and other Merrill clients were on hand at New York's Four Seasons Hotel to hear the case for investing in Australia.

In contrast with the performance two years ago, the Merrill investment theme for the country was also upbeat.

Internet blue chip Yahoo! yesterday more than delivered with its third-quarter profit report. It showed earnings per share just above consensus estimates, revenue at the top end of estimates, a solid 6 per cent increase in unique users, a still solid operating profit margin of 36.1 per cent and a reduction in the percentage of advertising revenue from so-called dot com companies from 47 to 40 per cent of its advertising base.

With its top 200 clients accounting for 60 per cent of revenues, the numbers in a different market would have been more than satisfactory.

But right now US investors want a blowout surprise from technology stocks or their stock will be sold, which happened in after-hours trading heading into yesterday's trading, pushing the Yahoo! stock price down.

Telecommunications equipment supplier Lucent helped provide more gloom by issuing its third profit warning this year, with the result being a fall in profits this year by some 11 per cent in a boom market for telecom spending.

Little wonder its stock price was also trashed and importantly, in view of increasing concerns surrounding its Australian partner, One.Tel, it said it was boosting reserves to cover possible credit problems from its customers.

The likes of One.Tel have Lucent build their infrastructure and then pay them back a few years later, which is fine so long as the company buying the equipment is still in business. If not, Lucent has the same problems as banks that lend to Third World countries that can't repay money lent.

Amid this gloomy news, Ziggy Switkowski was maximum bullish on the prospects of Telstra's joint-venture deal with PCCW.

In his address at the Merrill Lynch conference in New York, Switkowski talked up the opportunities and afterwards, when asked what would happen if the deal fell over, replied: "With respect, that is an irrelevant question now."

He declined to give any further details on the timing or structure of the deal.

Switkowski said that with $550 million in cost cuts this year, the company's profits would be a cost-cutting story for the next two years.

He said top-line revenue growth of 5 to 6 per cent through these cuts would be translated into double-digit earnings growth.

Earlier this month, Valassis, News Corp's main competitor in the US advertising coupon market, issued a profit warning because of a slowing economy and the annoying shift in strategy by such key clients as Procter & Gamble to do their own inserts championing their various brands.

News, however, claims to have avoided the same pitfalls, in part because it has an extra string to its bow in the form of coupons issued by retailers on top of those inserted into newspapers, which account for roughly two-thirds of its revenue.

The news coupon business is, by all reports, motoring along well, meeting budgeted targets.

Kraft, one of its key customers, has so far not followed P&G's strategy.

The coupon business, while a valuable earner, is hardly the growth engine for News Corp, but it would prefer it if Kraft did not follow the P&G lead.

Which Rupert Murdoch may well have confided to Kraft's parent company, Philip Morris, on whose board he sits. Its chairman, Geoff Bible, sits on the News Corp board.

Document AFNR000020111227dwac00r17




 Business; Financial Desk 
 Wall Street Searches for the Bottom TIME TO SELL? Depending on Your Outlook, Letting Go Can Be the Right Move 

 JOSH FRIEDMAN 
TIMES STAFF WRITER
1,078 words
12 October 2000
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-1
English
 Copyright 2000 Los Angeles Times 

 You own tech stocks or tech mutual funds and all of a sudden, you're in a world of hurt. Is it time to sell? 

 It's a personal decision, of course, and, unfortunately, it isn't easy. You don't have an audience to ask, and you can call your dad, but what does he know? 

 If you're wrestling with the sell decision, which many investors consider the toughest decision of all, it might help to ask yourself these questions: 

 * Are you a short-term trader or a long-term investor? If you have a short-term horizon because you are a trader by nature--or perhaps because you plan to retire soon and start condo hunting in Palm Springs--it might indeed be time to cut your losses or preserve any profits you still have. And let's be clear: Investors who have been in tech stocks for several years probably still have huge paper profits. 

 With any individual stock or sector, a reversal of fortune can last for an excruciatingly long time. Lucent Technologies may be an example of that in spades: After beating profit estimates for 15 quarters in a row, the telecom equipment giant has now issued its third profit warning this year. 

 Lucent also is an example of why some investors sell at the first sign of trouble with any company, basing their decision on the so-called cockroach theory: Just as the sight of one of those filthy critters means others are probably lurking in the walls, one piece of bad news is often followed by many more. 

 But why sell Lucent now--with the stock down 75% from its peak? Won't it rebound? 

 Perhaps. But beware the I-Just-Want-to-Get-Back-to-Even Syndrome. If you bought a stock at $50 and it's now $30, it's easy to say, "I've lost 40%, I'm not selling now." But if it falls to $15, you will have lost 70%, at least on paper. 

 Moreover, at $15 the stock must rise 233% to get back to $50. A rise of 70% from $15 would only get you back to $25.50, barely half your cost. 

 Psychologically, it can be hard to admit your mistakes. But for investors with short-term horizons, acknowledging that you have picked a loser and moving on can save you a lot of pain--and avoid having capital tied up in dead-money stocks. 

 * Even if you consider yourself a long-term investor, what does that mean, exactly? If you're 28, you probably have the time and earnings power to recover from your investing mistakes--whether or not Lucent ever does. 

 Many market watchers expect the market to rally later this year, as is traditional in the fourth quarter--once we get past the seemingly standard October slump. So it could pay handsomely to have patience--or even to be a buyer here. 

 Indeed, as Baron Nathan Rothschild put it, "The time to buy is when the blood is running in the streets." (Then again, he never owned Lucent.) 

 But if you're 58 and "long term" means just a few years before you planned to cash in your tech stocks anyway, it might be time to start the process of better diversifying your portfolio. 

 After all, if you were unlucky enough to buy at certain market peaks in the 20th century, you could have spent 20 years waiting just to get even. 

 You don't have to sell everything now, and you probably shouldn't. But if you need to lower your portfolio's risk level, starting the process--and committing yourself to selling more stock if prices indeed rebound in the months ahead--could well serve your long-term financial goals. 

 * How strong is your stomach? If you believe in a buy-and-hold strategy in theory but tremble every time you click on CNBC these days, you might need to rethink your portfolio--especially if it's heavy in tech shares. 

 With a mix of different types of stocks--small and big, value and growth, domestic and foreign--you might never be able to brag about beating the market, but you will probably sleep better. And that's worth a lot. 

 * Has your opinion of a particular company changed? If you bought Lucent, for example, mainly because of its earnings consistency, that rationale has been destroyed. 

 One portfolio manager spoke for a lot of Lucent investors when he told Bloomberg News on Wednesday, "It's time to take my losses and head to other grounds. How many times are we going to have bad news?" 

 If you believe the Wall Street analysts who say Nortel Networks now has a big competitive edge over Lucent, trading Lucent for Nortel might be the smart move. 

 However, you might still believe Deborah Hopkins, Lucent's chief financial officer, when she says, "Our problems have been identified and they are very fixable. I believe we are sitting on a gold mine." 

 Motorola, for its part, has recovered from many stumbles during its long history. Indeed, the company reinvented itself several times in the last century as new technologies emerged. If you think it will do it again, why listen to the naysayers and sell? 

 If you decide to hold on to a troubled stock, you don't have to be passive. Remember: You own the company (one-bazillionth of it, anyway). Many Lucent holders, for instance, are urging the board to fire Chief Executive Rich McGinn. 

 * Are there good tax-related reasons for you to sell? If you have realized capital gains this year or anticipate them, it could pay to sell some of your losers to offset those gains. 

 Under IRS "wash sale" rules, you can sell to take a tax loss, then buy the stock back 31 days later without getting penalized. 

 * Are you worried about the economy? The big picture is an issue here: If the falling market is telling us that a recession is coming, liquidating some of your stocks and moving into cash could turn out to be a very savvy move. 

 The market isn't always so predictive, of course. But if it is foretelling a recession, many stocks could fall far lower than they are today. 

Document latm000020010808dwac0213z




 A$ edges up against weaker U.S. dollar in Europe. 

362 words
11 October 2000
11:36
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, Oct 11 (Reuters) - The Australian dollar inched to day's highs against the U.S. dollar in Europe, moving further away from last week's record lows, as persistent weakness in U.S. equities sent the U.S. currency lower across the board. A lack of domestic news, however, meant commodity-linked currencies traded in tight ranges. 

 "The Aussie has ticked up against the dollar largely as a result of Nasdaq weakness," said Stephen Lewis, chief economist at Monument Derivatives in London. 

 "The Aussie has suffered in the past from its perception as an old-economy currency. Perhaps this is now less of a handicap given how the new economy is performing." 

 The tech-heavy Nasdaq index - a bellwether for the new-economy - shed 3.4 percent on Tuesday to a four-month low. A profit warning from telecoms equipment maker Lucent Technologies after the bell left the market braced for further falls on Wednesday. 

 Comments from Merrill Lynch's Australasian chief economist Peter Osborne overnight were also supportive for the Aussie. Speaking to investors in New York, Osborne said Australia's equity market should be re-rated upwards on the back of higher economic growth than Asia-Pacific peers. 

 Dealers said Australia's September jobs report on Thursday will provide a focus for the market. Economists expect the report to show a 17,000 increase after the 24,100 rise in August, although there is a risk of distortions caused by the Olympics. 

 At 1030 GMT, the Australian dollar traded at day's highs around US$0.5355, three-quarters of a cent above last week's record lows around US$0.5280. Also hovered at day's highs against the yen around 57.80 . The yen traded in a tight range against the U.S. dollar. 

 The Kiwi dollar also edged to day's peaks around US$0.4070 , edging further from last week's record lows around US$0.3990. The Canadian dollar was trapped in a tight range around C$1.50 against the U.S. dollar. 

 Canadian August new house prices are due at 1230 GMT. 

Document lba0000020010822dwab04frr




 U.S. mortgage-backed mart eyes equity house of cards. 

 By Aleksandrs Rozens 
696 words
11 October 2000
16:26
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 11 (Reuters) - U.S. mortgage-backed securities prices were unchanged to slightly higher as investors examined a bid list of seasoned 15-year collateral early Wednesday. 

 But, while they kept one eye on the seasoned mortgage-backed debt - reportedly from a bank portfolio or a mortgage fund - investors closely watched the stock market as the Nasdaq and Dow Jones industrial average fell. 

 Much of the declines in equities have been related to earnings scares and worries about what the slowing economy means for corporate profits. 

 The worries about the nation's economy have provided a bid for U.S. government debt, but the concerns about corporate profits have fired up worries within the corporate bond market. These worries have pressured swap spreads, according to participants, and this, in turn, has pressured spreads of agency debt and mortgage-backed debt. 

 By late morning, the Nasdaq index was off some 65 points at 3,174.62 - a two percent drop in the index value. 

 Also, the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) index was off about 26 points at 10,496.65. 

 The week tone to equities was set off, in part, by a profit warning from Lucent Technologies Inc. and poor quarterly earnings numbers from technology firms. 

 A trader with a New York dealer firm said the equity market was very much on the minds of mortgage debt participants. He said investors are playing close attention to corporate debt spreads - which widened Tuesday on weakness in U.S. stocks - and swaps spreads that serve as a barometer of credit conditions. 

 This session, five-year swaps were 1-1/2 basis points wider from Tuesday, while 10-year swaps were two basis points wider. 

 "I think equities earnings are driving Treasuries higher," the trader with the dealer said, expressing doubt that spread products could keep up with the strong bid to U.S. governments. Other market players agreed, saying that some flight-to-quality cash was leaving stocks and making its way into the short-end of the U.S. Treasury curve. 

 According to Art Frank, head of mortgage-backed research at Nomura Securities International Inc., spreads of current coupon mortgage-backed securities are wider in spread to five-year U.S. Treasuries and on spread to 10-year Treasuries from late Tuesday. 

 "The weakness in stocks is pressuring spread products, but mortgages are outperforming swaps and agencies," said Frank. 

 Discount 30-year mortgage-backed securities prices were 5/32 to 7/32 firmer, while premium 30-year mortgage-backed securities prices were unchanged to 2/32 firmer. 

 The list out for bid on Wednesday included 15-year discount mortgage debt with seasoned collateral, according to participants. The list has been circulating for several days and bids for it are due this session. Some of that collateral is expected to be rebundled into collateralized mortgage obligations. 

 The securities out for bid "will trade very well. It (the list) will trade very aggressively. People love the profile of seasoned collateral," said a trader with a regional dealer firm. "It is wait-and-see. We're are watching equities," he said. 

 Also, the trader with the Wall Street dealer noted that mortgage bankers were selling mortgage debt earlier in the session. According to the trader, bankers were selling some $100 million of 7-1/2 percent mortgage-backed securities. 

 So, while there were mortgage lender sales and a list of bonds to assess, activity has been relatively slow this session. 

 The Treasury five-year notes were 5/32 firmer to yield 5.79 percent, and 10-year Treasury notes were up 8/32 at 99-28/32 to yield 5.76 percent. The 30-year bond was 4/32 weaker at 106 to yield 5.82 percent. 

 Among 30-year 7-1/2 percent mortgage debt, Ginnie Mae MBS were up 4/32 at 100 7/32 to yield 7.524 percent. Freddie Mac securities were up 4/32 at 99-26/32 to yield 7.595 percent, and Fannie Mae MBS were 4/32 higher at 99-22/32 to yield 7.579 percent. 

Document lba0000020010822dwab04cic




 FOREX-Dollar keeps eerie calm in face of equity carnage. 

 By Wayne Cole 
828 words
11 October 2000
08:37
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 TOKYO, Oct 11 (Reuters) - The dollar kept eerily calm on Wednesday even while dealers were questioning how long it could stay aloof from the carnage taking place in U.S. equities. 

 In part its elan could be attributed to the fact that no market is an island and weakness in the Nasdaq usually spells trouble abroad. Indeed, the Nikkei index in Japan duly shed over 2.5 percent while bourses across Asia were bled white. 

 European shares were also expected to suffer, but dealers said they could not help but feel that the United States, with its hunger for foreign capital, had the most to lose. 

 "It's been amazing how little the Nasdaq's hurt the dollar up to now," said a U.S. bank dealer. "But the market's beginning to wonder how long foreigners will keep pumping money into U.S. assets when the return on many is turning negative." 

 The Nasdaq index shed 3.4 percent on Tuesday to a four-month low and a profit warning from Lucent after the bell promised more pain on Wednesday. 

 The index - the most likely bellwether if there is one for the new economy - has now fallen for five weeks in a row and is 37 percent below its record peak from March. 

 And yet the euro struggled to make much of the dollar's distraction, only edging ahead to $0.8727 from $0.8717 late in New York on Tuesday. It had rather more luck on the yen, reaching 94.27 yen from 93.87. 

 The dollar also managed to regain some losses against the yen to stand at 108.04 yen from a 107.65 low, though that still left it adrift of the 108.61 level held a day earlier. 

 DEFICIT DANGER 

 The potential danger that the huge U.S. trade deficit posed to the dollar has long been recognised by the market, but had seemed to matter little while booming productivity promised ever higher profits and returns for investors. 

 But a string of corporate profit warnings has swung the mood from greed to fear, leading some to wonder if foreigners will still be so free with their money. 

 Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas President Robert McTeer voiced the concern on Tuesday, saying that if foreigners were ever to question the strength of the U.S. economy, capital flows could reverse and damage the dollar. 

 Traders say there is little sign as yet of offshore money abandoning the U.S., though some thought it notable that swap spreads had widened sharply in recent days. Swaps spreads reflect the margin between super safe Treasuries and commercial debt and a widening can signify a lessening in risk appetite among global investors. 

 "Look around the world, you've got equities sliding; spreads moving out; emerging currencies under pressure; oil rising; people revising down global growth forecasts and revising up inflation. It's all very edgy," said a dealer at a European bank. 

 He noted that a favourite gauge of equity sentiment, the Chicago Board's Market Volatility Index, jumped 4.22 percent Tuesday to a three-month high, suggesting investors were becoming more concerned about the outlook for shares. 

 There were even wild rumours of China devaluing the yuan and of one or more U.S. investment banks suffering severe losses in junk bond trading. 

 "It's the sort of talk that crises are made of," opined the trader. 

 "So maybe, just maybe, this is beginning of the end for the dollar's uptrend. But then again, during crises, what's the world's favourite safe haven - the dollar. Go figure." 

 FLOWS FAVOUR YEN 

 The other main talking point for the market was Chiyoda Life and the repatriation of portfolio funds. 

 Dealers doubted that Chiyoda was repatriating much if anything of its portfolio. But its failure, and perhaps more importantly the fact that the authorities allowed it to fail, could encourage other insurers to be even more conservative in their foreign investments. 

 Indeed, September data on portfolio flows showed life insurers were already leery of foreign bonds, dumping a net 334 billion yen ($3.10 billion) worth. 

 "The Chiyoda news will merely reinforce that trend," said a U.S. bank dealer. "But the talk of Chiyoda itself liquidating its positions is probably wide of the mark. We understand it's hoping to pass on its entire portfolio to a new owner." 

 The real surprise in the data was that offshore investors snapped up 1.18 trillion yen of JGBs bringing their net purchases so far this year to a massive 6.9 trillion. While much of that would be hedged for forex exposure, it also came on top of a trade surplus that averages around one trillion yen a month. 

 This underlying demand for yen was one reason the currency remained strong despite troublesome fundamentals such as rising debt levels and dismal consumer demand. 

Document lba0000020010822dwab04bph




 Australian Morning Call - Global Markets - Oct 12. 

3,327 words
11 October 2000
21:38
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 ------------------(Snapshot 6:35 a.m./1935 GMT)---------------- 


S&P/ASX 200 cl   3260.7    -4.5   DJIA	  10447.08   -77.32
SPI 200 futs     3289  untraded   Nasdaq	3191.05    -49.49
Old All Ords cl  3259.5    -4.4   US 30yr	 5.8294  +0.0159


 SPI Old AllOrds futs 3277    -9   CRB Index     231.62    +1.22 

 10yrbond futs    93.850  -0.005   NYMEXoil    US$33.15    -0.03 


AUD  US$0.5346   (Wed: $0.5335)   FTSE cl	 6117.6   -130.1
NIKKEI cl	15513.57 -314.15   Gold NY 270.75  Lonfix 272.75



S&P500(Globex)  1385.00   -6.00   NZSE40 cl    1918.96   -29.49



-----------------------------(Oct 12)--------------------------



Overnight market action...



NEW YORK - U.S. technology stocks headed sharply lower in late afternoon trading on Wednesday, failing to sustain an earlier recovery from session lows spurred by a rally in semiconductor shares and a decline in oil prices.



Worries about corporate profits and forecasts of weaker revenue growth worried skittish investors after Lucent Technologies Inc. , the world's No. 1 telecom equipment maker, and Motorola Inc. , the world's No. 2 cell phone maker, warned 2001 may bring lower-than-expected earnings growth.



"There is fear that there's going to be a slowdown in spending," said Peter Doyle, chief investment strategist at the Internet Fund, with $750 million in assets.



"For all I know," the Nasdaq market "could end positive but the greater risk is to the downside."



The technology-heavy Nasdaq Composite Index dropped 68 points, or 2.11 percent, to 3,172, after tumbling to 3,103 earlier. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 150 points, or 1.43 percent, to 10,373. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index was down 27 points, or 2.01 percent, at 1,359.



Cisco Systems Inc. , the world's largest maker of computer networking equipment, jumped to an intraday high of $53-3/8, helping to boost the Nasdaq. Cisco, the second most active stock on Nasdaq, last was up / to $52.



But International Business Machines Corp. was down 2.5 percent to $111-15/16 amid a rumor the world's No. 1 computer maker was having trouble supplying Cisco with computer chips. Microsoft Corp. was up 3.32 percent to $56-3/8. The U.S. Court of Appeals on Wednesday gave the company until Nov. 27 to file written briefs in its antitrust case.



Wall Street has suffered almost session after session of declines amid worries that high oil prices, Europe's weak single currency and a slowing economy would depress corporate earnings.



But Motorola Inc. skidded 20 percent, or $5-5/16, to $21-1/16, on the New York Stock Exchange. The mobile phone maker reported quarterly earnings figures that matched expectations. Motorola, however, cut its earnings expectations through 2001 - citing weaker growth in mobile phone sales.



Yahoo! Inc. stock shed more than 19 percent, or $16-1/2, to $66-3/16, on the Nasdaq. The online media giant posted results that beat expectations but showed a decline in advertisers on its Web site. Yahoo! lost about $9.5 billion in market value and helped to push the American Stock Exchange Internet Index down 4.09 percent.



-



LONDON - London shares took a hammering on Wednesday, ending 2.1 percent down at a 4-1/2-month closing low as Wall Street blue chip stocks joined the downward march in flightier technology names.



The benchmark FTSE 100 index lurched 130.1 points lower to end at 6,117.6, its lowest close since May 23 amid major blood letting in leading technology, media and telecoms (TMT) shares.



FTSE 100 fallers outpaced the gainers by about three to one on robust volume of 1.7 billion by the start of London closing price auctions.



"It's basically a question of a lack of confidence in earnings," said Dresdner Kleinwort Benson UK equity strategist Philip Isherwood."The oil sector is bravely holding out but the other two big sectors, banks and telecoms, are being dragged down."



Telecoms accounted for 60 FTSE 100 points lost, with much of the spadework, as ever, being done by mobile telecoms operator Vodafone , whose 5.8 percent fall wiped out 38 points.



Other FTSE points munchers included media companies, which accounted for 14, and, software, computer and semiconductor names, together lopping a further 20.



Banks also suffered, taking off 31 FTSE points the day after leading mortgage bank Halifax launched a 100 million pound attack intended to wrest retail customers from rivals.



Halifax shares lost some five percent, while the UK's big four mainstream banks - Barclays , Lloyds TSB , HSBC and Royal Bank of Scotland - lost more than one percent each to add to Tuesday's sharp falls.



Amid the gloom, Britain's blue chip oil duo of BP Amoco Plc and Shell Transport & Trading Co Plc were among the few FTSE 100 gainers, after the latest rise in crude prices.



With the Financial Times Lex column noting that oil stocks had not yet factored in recent crude price gains, BP added 1.8 percent and Shell rose 2.8 percent.



The FT said crude could stay higher than expected for several years, setting a positive backdrop for oil stocks.



Feeling the flip side of higher oil prices was British Airways , down 1.6 percent on the day despite announcing a long-trailed overhaul to its global network and loss-making European operations.



-



TOKYO - Tokyo stocks ended sharply lower on Wednesday, with the key Nikkei average closing at its lowest level in 18 months after a heavy sell-off in tech shares overwhelmed gains in select defensive issues.



"Investors are so preoccupied by whether and when the declines in U.S. tech stocks will halt that they have little attention left for defensive plays," said Tetsuya Ishijima, chief strategist at Okasan Securities.



The benchmark Nikkei average finished down 314.15 points or 1.98 percent at 15,513.57, led by high tech heavyweights such as Fujitsu Ltd and NEC Corp . That was the lowest close since March 12, 1999.



The capital-weighted TOPIX index fell 22.82 points or 1.54 percent to 1,459.75.



Analysts said there were few significant nearby levels of support for the Nikkei except for 15,394.71, a low marked on July 31.



-.



COMMODITIES



BASE METALS - Base metals came to life during Wednesday afternoon LME trading, and some prices witnessed erratic swings ahead of a mixed uncertain close, traders said.



Zinc was the stand-out mover, swinging sharply lower during afternoon inter-office trading before closing slightly higher as funds and opportunist traders exerted undue influence on a thin market.



Nickel was hit by a bear raid, again in thin conditions, while copper extended earlier declines. Only aluminium showed some resilience in the face of losses elsewhere.



"It has been a pig of a day. In the morning it was very lethargic, as you would expect after the (LME) dinner. Then it was marked down over lunch when it was thin," one trader said.



Fund sales and sell-stops also weighed on zinc and nickel, although the former market was stoutly supported under $1,100, rallying back from near $1,090 to finish the kerb at $1,110, up $2 a tonne.



Technically, the market is oversold in the short term, but it is likely to remain susceptible to another test of $1,100 if funds resume sales.



Nickel's movements were one-way traffic throughout with little evidence of support emerging. Last business was at $7,550, down $200 from Tuesday.



Nickel is also oversold, but soggy short-term sentiment suggests that rallies will be restricted, traders said.



Copper ignored news Portuguese state firm Somincor has declared force majeure on copper deliveries from its Neves Corvo mine and trundled lower, depressed by early news of a stocks increase of 2,250 tonnes.



Copper prices swung under $1,950 in early afternoon, finally ending the session $12 lower at $1,947.



Aluminium absorbed bank selling this morning, and also shrugged off the downturns elsewhere, amid some consumer buying. Prices closed at $1,543, up $7. Analysts said the metal needs to regain $1,550/$1,560 to avoid further tests of the lows.



-



GOLD - COMEX gold ended down on Wednesday after early speculator buying and short covering exhausted itself and the currency market again soured on the euro and Australian dollar, dealers said.



COMEX December gold ended down $2.10 at $273 an ounce, having popped up $2.40 to $277.50 after the open.



The turnaround took the contract down to $272.80, bringing back into focus December's one-year low at $271.20, hit Tuesday morning before the short squeeze unfolded.



Spot bullion was last quoted at $270.40/90, down from a high quote of $274.70, London's afternoon fix at $272.75 and Tuesday's New York close at $272.25/75.



"There was a fund that sold it yesterday and covered it today. It got up to $274.50 and dealers came in and smacked it," said a New York-based bullion dealer. "It just confirms a pretty tight trading range at the moment."



Bullion continues to behave like a currency, falling from its highs as the euro reversed a morning gain against the dollar, though it held above several recent lows near $0.8660 to fetch $0.8685/91 in midafternoon trade.



"At $270 and below, physical buying is very, very good," added Ian MacDonald, precious metals trading manager at Commerzbank. "But on the other hand it is still very much a currency game.



"The weaker the currencies in Europe and other parts of the world get, (the more) it tends to drag gold down, largely because purchasing power is being destroyed around the world," he said.



The Australian dollar was quoted at US$0.5339/44 after stumbling back to neutral following an early rise. This put the currency-wary gold market on watch for Aussie producer hedging, to take advantage of local spot gold sales targets over A$510 an ounce.



-



OIL - NYMEX crude oil futures settled with a small gain on Wednesday, as the market turned cautious after jumping overnight to as high as $34 a barrel on the back of an unexpectedly sharp drop in weekly inventories.



NYMEX crude for November delivery settled at $33.25 a barrel, up just 7 cents, after mustering a session high of $33.70 in the morning. It dipped as low as $32.96 and last traded at $33.10.



After a whole day of dipping into contango, the November/December spread at settlement was just one cent in backwardation as the latter contract finished at $33.24, up 17 cents, benefiting from spread play.



Brent crude in London erased earlier gains stemming from bullish draws in U.S. crude stocks. November Brent last traded unchanged at $31.85 a barrel.



In New York, traders said some big players held off making fresh commitments in the absence of weekly inventory data from the U.S. Department of Energy's statistical unit.



-



WHEAT - Chicago Board of Trade soft red winter wheat futures closed higher on fund buying, continuing Tuesday's technical rally and rising on concerns about delays in U.S. winter wheat seedings amid dry weather, sources said.



CBOT wheat closed up = to 2 cents, with December up 1-= cents at $2.76-) and March up 2 at $2.94 per bushel.



Funds bought 4,000 lots. Prudential Securities bought 3,700 December, O'Connor and Co. bought 700 December and sold 300 December, and E.D. and F. Man International bought 800 December and sold 200 December.



-.



FOREX/DEBT



NEW YORK - The dollar was tethered to U.S. equity market movements on Wednesday, falling to its lowest levels in a week or more against the yen and major European currencies before paring losses along with Wall Street stocks.



As U.S. trading wound down, the greenback edged into positive territory against the euro and came off its lows against the yen, Swiss franc and sterling, as investor concerns lessened that stock volatility would bruise consumer confidence and business balance sheets in the United States.



"The stock market has come back, which is why the dollar has been bought back," said Brian Zirlin, vice president at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette (DLJ) in New York.



But even as the Dow Jones industrial average and the embattled technology shares in the Nasdaq composite index shed earlier losses, they relapsed near the U.S. close, incurring more losses and driving the dollar lower in its wake.



In late U.S. trade, the euro traded just below 87 cents , near lows hit since the Group of Seven (G7) intervened on Sept. 22 to boost the euro last month and well off the one-week high of 87.65 reached in European trade.



The euro probed fresh post-intervention lows against the yen below 93.50 yen, and was also weaker against the pound and the Swiss franc.



The dollar was slightly softer against the yen, standing near 107.50 yen , the 1-= week low hit earlier in the session. The dollar also fell to one-week lows against sterling , near $1.4659, before paring some of its losses. But against the Swiss francs it bounced a full centime from session lows of 1.7285 francs.



The Nasdaq has fallen for five weeks in a row and is now some 38 percent below its record peak in March, but pared the worst of the session losses to close down 72 points at 3,168 points, while the Dow was down 110 points at 10,413 points.



With U.S. equity weakness spilling over into European and Asian markets, analysts said the Swiss franc and sterling stand to gain the most from safe-haven flows.



"You are starting to see currencies like the Swiss franc and sterling get strengthened because people view their economies as less vulnerable and at different stages of the economic cycle," said Tim Fox, currency strategist at Standard Chartered Bank in New York.



-



NEW YORK - A dramatic slide by U.S. technology shares briefly sent short-term U.S. Treasury yields to 11-month lows on Wednesday before an impressive stock recovery left yields little changed on the day.



"Things change on a dime," said David Myers, fixed-income strategist at Deutsche Bank Securities. "For the moment the stock market is the focus of traders right now."



The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index, which has shed more than 25 percent since Sept. 1, tumbled more than 4 percent at one point on Wednesday, sparking safe-haven buying of low-risk, highly liquid U.S. government debt.



Two-year note yields, which move in the opposite direction of price, fell early in the session to levels not seen since Nov. 1999 near 5.90 percent.



But shorter-term Treasuries reversed course as the Nasdaq staged an impressive turnaround, cutting its losses to around 0.25 percent at 3 p.m. (1900 GMT)



"When Nasdaq sells off, Treasuries have been getting better bids. We saw some of that flight to quality today. Now with the reversal in the Nasdaq, it is a reversal in the flight to quality bid," said James Caron, Treasuries strategist at Merrill Lynch Government Securities.



At the 3 p.m. settlement, benchmark 10-year notes gained 3/32 to 99-23/32, yielding 5.79 percent.



U.S. light crude oil futures gained 14 cents to $33.32 a barrel amid forecasts of more cold spells in North America and continued tensions in the Middle East.



"Oil, Middle East turmoil and a falling equity market spells trouble to me. The front end (short-term Treasuries) is where you want to be," Caron said.



The Federal Reserve's outright purchase of $500 million in long-term U.S. Treasury coupons dated Nov. 15, 2018 through Aug. 15, 2022 had little impact on the long bond.



The government's sale of $5 billion in 30-year inflation indexed bonds at a high yield of 3.953 percent met with modest demand and had little market impact.



Traders said Treasuries would likely continue to track equity markets until Friday, when the government releases two key economic reports: September retail sales figures and the U.S. Producer Price Index, a gauge of wholesale inflation.



-.



WASHINGTON, Oct 11 (Reuters) - U.S. regulators said on Wednesday they will investigate whether agreements between brand-name and generic drug manufacturers have been keeping lower-cost medicines from consumers.



The Federal Trade Commission said it would probe whether companies made deals or used other strategies that delayed generic drugs from hitting the market after a patent expired. Generic drugs typically cost significantly less than their brand-name counterparts.



The FTC already has charged four companies with making arrangements that delayed the debuts of generic forms of two hypertension drugs, Aventis SA's Cardizem CD and Abbott Laboratories' Hytrin.



-



NEW YORK, Oct 11 (Reuters) - Lucent Technologies Inc.'s latest profit warning, its third this year, puts great pressure on its Chairman Rich McGinn to show fast progress in reviving the ailing telecommunications equipment maker or resign, analysts and investors said on Wednesday.



After the stock market closed on Tuesday, Lucent confirmed Wall Street's fears that it would miss its fourth-quarter profit targets. It said fourth-quarter profits would fall 25 to 29 percent and 2001 forecasts would be cut as well.



Lucent's stock plunged, hitting a level unseen since January 1998. The stock fell $9-15/16, or nearly 32 percent, to $21-7/16 on the New York Stock Exchange. The stock, once a Wall Street darling, has skidded more than 70 percent this year.



-



CHICAGO, Oct 11 (Reuters) - Shares of technology giant Motorola Inc. slumped 18 percent on Wednesday after the company cut earnings estimates for the next two years because of the weak euro, higher taxes and slower projected global growth in the mobile phone market.



In a conference call one day after reporting higher third-quarter earnings that met Wall Street estimates, Motorola surprised analysts with its downgrade of expectations, particularly in the mobile phone unit.



Motorola's shares, the second biggest percentage loser on the New York Stock Exchange, were trading off $4-13/16 at $21-9/16 in mid-afternoon on volume of 44.1 million shares. Earlier, Motorola's shares reached a nearly two-year low at $20-1/2.



-



BRUSSELS, Oct 11 (Reuters) - Internet giant America Online Inc won European approval on Wednesday for its $129 billion takeover of Time Warner Inc , after agreeing to sever all links with Germany's Bertelsmann AG .



The European Commission said the companies' concessions plus last week's withdrawal of the planned music joint venture of Warner Music and EMI Group Plc had reassured it the new group would not be able to dominate the emerging market for online music.



Bertelsmann is owner of BMG music, one of the world's five "major" record labels, along with EMI, Warner Music, Seagram's Universal Music and Sony Music .



-



FAIRFIELD, Conn., Oct 11 (Reuters) - General Electric Co. , the conglomerate whose businesses include power generation, financial services and broadcasting, said on Wednesday that third-quarter earnings rose 20 percent, as expected, boosted by strong across-the-board growth in its industrial operations.



GE, the world's biggest company in terms of stock market capitalization, said earnings rose to $3.18 billion, or 32 cents per share, from $2.65 billion, or 27 cents, in the year-earlier quarter. Analysts on average forecast 32 cents per share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial.



GE shares have risen about 48 percent in the past year, helped by the company's steady emphasis on globalization and expansion into electronic commerce and the services area. The company has not had a negative earnings surprise since 1994.


Document lba0000020010822dwab049ui




 Nortel Says Industry Future 'Robust' After Lucent Warning 

149 words
11 October 2000
02:33
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 TORONTO -(Dow Jones)- Nortel Networks Corp. (NT), commenting on the latest profit warning from rival Lucent Technologies Inc. (LU), said prospects for the telecommunications equipment industry remain "robust." 

 A Nortel spokesman, reading a statement prepared by the company, said: "We have heard the comments made by Lucent today, specifically those indicating that this is a Lucent-specific execution issue, and not an industry-wide phenomenon. We agree with Lucent that the growth prospects for our industry remain robust." The spokesman declined to elaborate on the statement and about the company's third-quarter results, which will be announced Oct. 24. 


Nortel Networks has been posting sharply higher revenue in recent
quarters largely due to soaring sales of optical-networking equipment,
an area where Lucent has fallen behind the Brampton, Ontario,
telecommunications equipment supplier.
  -Mark Heinzl, Dow Jones Newswires; 416-306-2014


Document dj00000020010805dwab03tte




 French shares close sharply lower, hammered by tech stocks ATTENTION - REPETITION with 2ndlead mention in slug /// 

116 words
11 October 2000
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 PARIS, Oct 11 (AFP) - French share prices closed with heavy losses, with the blue-chip CAC 40 index falling 3.05 percent at 5,956.12 points, dragged down by weakness among technology and telecom stocks on Wednesday. 

 The fall in the CAC index below the psychologically key 6,000 level was led by selling in high-tech shares, as investors took fright from continued falls in the US Nasdaq index on Wednesday, following an overnight drop prompted by a profit warning by US telecoms equipment company Lucent Technologies. 

 following an overnight drop prompted by a profit warning by US 

Document afpr000020010803dwab049hw




 French shares close sharply lower, hammered by tech stocks ATTENTION - RECASTS with closing levels /// 

114 words
11 October 2000
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 PARIS, Oct 11 (AFP) - French share prices closed with heavy losses, with the blue-chip CAC 40 index falling 3.05 percent at 5,956.12 points, dragged down by weakness among technology and telecom stocks on Wednesday. 

 The fall in the CAC index below the psychologically key 6,000 level was led by selling in high-tech shares, as investors took fright from continued falls in the US Nasdaq index on Wednesday, following an overnight drop prompted by a profit warning by US telecoms equipment company Lucent Technologies. 

 following an overnight drop prompted by a profit warning by US 

Document afpr000020010803dwab049fr




 London shares fall two percent, as market frets over US earnings 

174 words
11 October 2000
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 LONDON, Oct 11 (AFP) - Share prices in London traded sharply lower on Wednesday afternoon, as investors fretted about profit warnings from leading US companies and sold technology stocks in droves. 

 The FTSE 100 index fell more than two percent to 6,115.7 points, flirting with levels not seen here since May. 

 Technology, media and telecom (TMT) stocks led the rout, hit hard by a profit warning from US telecoms equipment outfit Lucent Technologies, and expectations that the tech-laden Nasdaq index would suffer another black day on Wednesday. 

 Banking stocks were also sharply lower, as market players anticipated a full-scale price war for customers following a new aggressive move on the market for current accounts by Halifax, a leading mortgage lender. 

 October is traditionally no friend of investors. The 1929 and 1987 crashes happened in October, and recent years have also seen alarming corrections. The FTSE index has lost more than four percent in fewer than four trading sessions. 

 mro/pt 

Document afpr000020010803dwab0491z




 Hong Kong shares fall 2.7 percent on weaker US market 

316 words
11 October 2000
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 HONG KONG, Oct 11 (AFP) - Hong Kong share prices slid 2.7 percent Wednesday as already negative sentiment was further dampened by overnight losses on Wall Street, dealers said. 

 The key Hang Seng index lost 427.11 points to close at 15,127.00 on turnover of 8.1 billion Hong Kong dollars (1.04 billion US). 

 Sunny Chan, vice-president of KGI Securities, said the Hang Seng Index was pressured by the decline on Wall Street overnight and the subsequent weakness in regional stock markets on Wednesday. 

 He said it was difficult to predict the direction of the Hang Seng index near term because of thin turnover. 

 Dealers said financial stocks were further weakened by reports their US counterparts stand to incur losses on their exposure to the junk bond market, while hi-tech counters extended their declines following a profit warning from Lucent Technologies. 

 HSBC topped the losers, falling 4.50 dollars to close at 104.50, Bank of East Asia was down 25 cents at 17.05 dollars and Hang Seng Bank was 1.00 dollars lower at 83.25. 

 Cheung Kong was down 75 cents at 91.00 dollars, Henderson Land was 60 cents lower at 37.20 and Sino Land was down 20 cents at 3.50. 

 Persistent weakness on the Nasdaq, which fell 3.4 percent overnight, continued to undercut local hi-tech stocks, with the profit warning from Lucent Technologies intensifying the downward pressure, dealers said. 

 Pacific Century CyberWorks was down 50 cents at 7.85 dollars, failing to benefit from some reports it was near to reaching an agreement with Telstra Corp. on their business alliance. 

 China Mobile was down 2.00 at 53.50 dollars, China Unicom was 50 cents lower at 17.20 and Hutchison Whampoa was down 1.50 at 101. 

 bur-pl/bro 

Document afpr000020010803dwab048il




 Steep fall in tech sector drive European stocks sharply lower by Pierre Tran ATTENTION - UPDATES with Frankfurt closing /// 

832 words
11 October 2000
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 PARIS, Oct 11 (AFP) - European shares dropped heavily on Wednesday, hammered by falls in technology and telecom stocks after yet another profit warning and disappointing profits from US blue chips, dealers said. 

 A rout on the US technology-laden Nasdaq exchange continued on Wednesday, extending losses of the previous session, sparked by an overnight earnings warning from telecoms equipment maker Lucent Technologies and so-so results from Internet company Yahoo and Motorola, a leading mobile phone firm. 

 In late afternoon, the Dow Jones STOXX 50 index fell 2.05 percent to 4,667.50. 

 The London FTSE-100 index closed down 130.1 points, or 2.1 percent, at 6,117.6 points, its lowest level since May 23. 

 The Paris CAC 40 dropped 3.05 percent to finished below the psychologically important 6,000-level at 5,956.12 points. 

 In Frankfurt, the DAX shed 1.46 percent at at 6,561.63 points. 

 The markets had been on notice for weaker performance in the technology sector after last week's profit and trading downgrades by Intel, Apple and Dell. 

 In Paris, telecoms equipment company Alcatel took the brunt of the sell-off, as investors rushed to ditch the shares in the light of the Lucent warning. 

 Alcatel, whose shares were briefly suspended to allow a cooling- off period when its stock dropped 10 percent, was moved to reaffirm an earlier forecast that sales at its optical division would rise 30 percent in the third quarter compared with the same period last year. 

 An Alcatel spokesman said: "The profit warning concerns only Lucent and not the industry." 

 But the market ignored the reassurances and dumped the stock, which narrowed the day's losses but still finished down 8.95 percent at 69.20 euros. Trading in Alcatel accounted for 32 points of the CAC index's overall fall. 

 The telecoms contagion hit banking stocks as fears spread that a slowdown in the technology, media and telecoms sector could expose them to greater credit risk, analysts said. 

 Credit Lyonnais closed 2.60 euros lower at 39.75, BNP Paribas fell 6.60 euros to 89.00, and Societe Generale ended 4.70 euros lower at 56.25. 

 "There is a danger for the French banking sector because certain parts of   the New Economy have been financed with too much bank credit," said analyst Jean Claude Bouveron at brokers Wargny. 

 The fall in French banking stocks was exacerbated by sharp declines in the British financial sector due to the size of telecoms operators' bank debt and compounded by rumours that Deutsche Bank was having problems in the US junk bond market. 

 In the London market, technology stocks continued to plummet, as investors took fright from Motorola's warning on fourth-quarter earnings, with Bookham Technologies still the worst sufferer, falling 404 pence, or more than 14 percent, to 2,460, while Marconi slid 57 pence to 839, on the back of the Lucent news. 

 Elsewhere, Sema Group fell 70 pence to 1,100, Logica lost 172 pence at 1,975 and CMG shed 75 pence to 1295. 

 Oil stocks continued to sparkle, as the price of crude continue to firm in the wake of sharply lower US inventory figures -- as winter was setting in early on the Eastern seaboard -- and as an agreement between Palestinians and Israelis failed to materialise, prompting fears of a repeat of the 1973 Arab oil embargo. 

 BP Amoco firmed 11-1/2 pence to 638, while Shell gained 16 pence to 597-1/2. 

 In Frankfurt, tech stocks reeled from the sales orders. 

 Epcos was the market's weakest performer, closing down 6.51 euros at 78.19, while Siemens fell 4.22 euros to 140.40 euros. Infineon closed 2.00 lower at 48.01. 

 Financials also took a hit. Deutsche Bank closed 6.40 euros lower at 85.70 as investors moved out of the stock on speculation that it may be about to incur heavy junk bond losses in the United States. 

 This sparked a pan-European sell-off of banking stocks by major investment funds, dealer said. 

 Dresdner closed 2.67 euros lower at 45.56 euros, while Commerzbank fell 0.02 euros to finish at 33.10 euros. 

 Travel group Preussag fell 0.90 to 33.35, as investors took profits on gains made yesterday from news that it will take a 34.4 percent stake in French tour operator Nouvelles Frontieres by 2002. 

 In Zurich, the SMI closed down 1.88 percent at 7,665.40 points, in Milan the Mib 30 dropped 2.14 percent at 43,952 points, in Madrid the Ibex-35 fell 3.03 percent at 10,618.70 points, in Amsterdam the AEX fell 2.66 percent at 637.26 points and in Brussels the Bel-20 eased 0.21 percent at 3,005.85 points. 

 bur/pt/rmb 

Document afpr000020010803dwab04780


Newscast: Business news and stock report   

587 words
11 October 2000
CBS News: The Early Show
CBST
English
(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

JANE CLAYSON, co-host:   

7:19 now. Time for this morning's MarketWatch report with Susan McGinnis.   

Good morning, Susan.   

SUSAN McGINNIS reporting:   

Well, good morning, Jane.   

If you were watching yesterday, you know it does not pay to be a tech investor these days. Techs got caught in yet another downdraft after some analysts downgraded the stocks of a couple of chip makers. The index dropped 115 points. The NASDAQ is now down 20 percent year to date.   

(Graphic on screen)   

CBS MarketWatch cbs.marketwatch.com   

NASDAQ   

3,240.54 down 115.02   

McGINNIS: Well, after the NASDAQ sneezed, the Dow caught cold. It lost 44 points in the last session.   

(Graphic on screen)   

CBS MarketWatch cbs.marketwatch.com   

Dow Jones Industrials   

10,524.40 down 44.03   

McGINNIS: The downdraft then spread to Asia overnight and Europe today, where markets are down sharply.   

Today could be more bad news in the US for techs. Lucent becomes the latest tech firm to warn that its earnings will be below expectations, its third profit warning in a row. Also, positive reports from  Yahoo! and  Motorola are doing little to help their shares; both lower right now in after-hours trading, so it does not look like a good day for the NASDAQ today.   

Well, it looks like a go in Europe at least. The European Commission has conditionally approved AOL's $129 billion acquisition of  Time Warner. That deal still needs to get the OK from US regulators.   

And  Hilton Hotels and LaunchNet are teaming up to offer Internet access in their hotel rooms. Nintendo games and interactive TV will also be available in some rooms later this year.   

Finally, two Americans are walking away with the Nobel prize in economics. James Heckman of the University of Chicago, also Daniel McFadden of the University of California at Berkeley are being honored for developing theory and methods that are widely used in analyzing work and living habits.   

For more, head to our Web site, cbs.marketwatch.com; also AOL, keyword: marketwatch. Back now to Bryant and Jane.   

BRYANT GUMBEL (Co-host): You know, we boo Finnerty when he comes up here with the bad news all the time. You're...   

CLAYSON: Don't boo a pregnant lady.   

GUMBEL: No. I mean, you're...   

McGINNIS: That's right. Don't shoot the messenger.   

GUMBEL: At some point, we have to get some better news. Yeah?   

McGINNIS: We hope so. For now I would just say to hold tight and don't watch.   

GUMBEL: Yeah.   

CLAYSON: Susan's holding tight. She's got three weeks before her baby is due.   

McGINNIS: That's right.   

GUMBEL: Yeah, thanks very much. She'll be gone and the whole thing's going into the tank, right?   

CLAYSON: That's right.   

GUMBEL: Still ahead, Bette Midler with her new show tonight.   

CLAYSON: Yes.   

GUMBEL: She's talking about--this morning about?   

CLAYSON: She's talking about music and how it affects her life. There's a lot of music in this new special.   

GUMBEL: Is there really?   

CLAYSON: She sings, yeah. She's great.   

GUMBEL: OK. All right. Bette Midler's show is on tonight, so we'll be hearing from her in our next half-hour. We're also going to be talking with the new boss of the  Bridgestone/Firestone tire company about the problems his company's facing.   

There's more ahead, 22 past the hour. We're back in a moment after this.   

(Announcements)   

Document CBST000020070818dwab005jz


Newscast: Business news and stock report   

477 words
11 October 2000
CBS News: Morning News
CBSM
English
(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

JULIE CHEN, anchor:   

On Wall Street, earnings worries sent stock prices tumbling. The Dow lost 44 points to finish at 10,524.   

(Graphic on screen)   

DOW JONES INDUSTRIALS   

10,524.40   

down 44.03   

VOLUME:   

1,044,030,000   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

CHEN: The NASDAQ was down 115 points to close at 3,240.   

(Graphic on screen)   

NASDAQ   

3,240.54   

down 115.02   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

CHEN: In Tokyo, the Nikkei index fell about 2 percent overnight.   

(Graphic on screen)   

TOKYO NIKKEI AVERAGE   

15,513.57   

down 314.15   

CHANGE:   

down 1.98%   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

CHEN: Investors continue to punish tech stocks in a big Wall Street sell-off. CBS MarketWatch analyst Alexis Christoforous has that.   

ALEXIS CHRISTOFOROUS reporting:   

The bleeding continues for the NASDAQ as investors run away from tech stocks. The NASDAQ has now fallen 23 percent since September 1st, as bellwethers such as  Intel and  Dell Computer warn that profits or sales will disappoint. Analysts say there are three main factors for the selling. First and foremost, fear over corporate profits, second, the upcoming presidential election and the uncertainty over who will move into the White House, and finally, tax-loss selling. As profit worries drive stocks lower, some investors are also selling to book losses for tax purposes.   

While it was the chip stocks that led this latest slide, Altera down 27 percent. We had  Xilinx losing 21 percent of its value after a couple of influential analysts downgraded those stocks.   

IBM also came under pressure; Big Blue will spend $2 1/2 billion to open a chip-making plant in east Fishkill, New York.   

(Graphic on screen)   

IBM (IBM)   

down 3.31 to 114.63   

CHRISTOFOROUS: It's expected to create 1,000 new jobs.   

One bright spot, though, was National Discount Broker. Shares of the New Jersey-based company shot up 90 percent after receiving a buyout offer from  Deutsche Bank of Germany.   

(Graphic on screen)   

NATIONAL DISCOUNT BROKER (NDB)   

up 22.44 to 47.69   

CHRISTOFOROUS: But it's the after-the-bell action that will set the tone for Wednesday's trading. The Internet giant  Yahoo! posted profit of 13 cents a share--that beat the Street by a penny--while the cell phone maker  Motorola paid 26 cents a share, right in line with estimates. But  Lucent Technologies could pour cold water on those reports. After the bell, the New Jersey-based phone equipment maker sounded its third profit warning in 10 months.   

At the NASDAQ market site, I'm Alexis Christoforous, CBS MarketWatch.   

CHEN: For the latest on the markets, click on cbs.marketwatch.com.   

Next on the CBS MORNING NEWS, we'll check the nation's weather.   

And in sports, Mariners pitcher Freddy Garcia shut down the Yankees in game one of the American League Championship series.   

(Announcements)   

Document CBSM000020070818dwab002r3


BUSINESS
PacifiCare falls short of projected earnings: The company may freeze enrollment in its Secure Horizons Medicare HMO.

Douglas E. Beeman; The Press-Enterprise   
664 words
11 October 2000
Riverside Press-Enterprise
RVSD
ALL ZONES
D01
English
Copyright 2000 The Press-Enterprise. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank, Inc.   

PacifiCare Health Systems Inc., the country's largest Medicare HMO, said Tuesday its third-quarter earnings will fall far short of Wall Street's estimates due to higher-than-expected costs.

The Santa Ana-based company also said it may freeze enrollment in Secure Horizons, its Medicare HMO, in Riverside and San Bernardino counties and most other areas it serves.

PacifiCare already has frozen Medicare enrollments in 13 counties in Texas and Washington. Only Los Angeles, Orange and San Diego counties will be assured of continued open enrollment in Secure Horizons, said Robert W. O'Leary, PacifiCare's president and chief executive.

PacifiCare said it expects to break even or possibly lose up to 10 cents a share in the third quarter ending Sept. 30. The company said earnings for the year also will be down. Analysts expected PacifiCare to make $1.90 a share in the third quarter.

O'Leary said the company's Medicare business is being pressed by higher medical costs and federal reimbursements that aren't keeping pace. Congress is considering adding funds to the federal Medicare HMO program, something O'Leary said is necessary. "There just simply has to be relief," he said during a news conference Tuesday.

Secure Horizons is the Inland region's largest single Medicare HMO, with more than 74,000 members in Riverside and San Bernardino counties.

In Seattle and the Houston area, Secure Horizons is the only Medicare HMO remaining after others announced they would leave next year. As a result, Secure Horizons has been swamped with potential new members, prompting the company to freeze enrollment.

"We do not want to outstrip our ability to provide high quality service," O'Leary said.

But because federal payments aren't keeping up with rising medical costs, the company is planning to review its Medicare HMO business in nearly every market, O'Leary said.

PacifiCare already has announced it will remain in the Inland region next year, but whether it will seek federal approval to limit its enrollment or make other changes was unclear. The company's Secure Horizons HMO is one of eight available to the Inland region.

O'Leary said PacifiCare was blindsided by unexpectedly high demand for hospital services as the company changed the way it paid for those services.

Previously, PacifiCare paid most hospitals a flat per-member fee for all hospital care, leaving the hospitals on the hook if demand for care outstripped the money to pay for it. Now the HMO shares any excess costs with more than half of the hospitals it contracts with.

O'Leary said the company doesn't know whether its members are using more hospital and outpatient surgical services, or the HMO is only now realizing how much in services members have been using -- and hospitals have been paying for -- all along. O'Leary said the company was slow to realize that hospital costs had increased unexpectedly because hospitals were slow in submitting claims. The company expects its unanticipated third-quarter costs for hospital and outpatient surgical care to amount to as much as $75 million.

The company also expects to set aside $25 million in reserves in the third quarter for insolvent medical providers and other related costs. O'Leary declined to say how much of this stems from the company's financial bailout of KPC Medical Management, an Anaheim physician network owned by Hemet's Dr. Kali P. Chaudhuri.

PacifiCare was among more than a half dozen health plans that contributed to a $30 million financial package last month to keep KPC afloat.

Shares of PacifiCare, which had $10 billion in sales last year, traded at $32.88 apiece late Tuesday on the Nasdaq Stock Market, down 88 cents, or 2.6 percent. PacifiCare issued the profit warning after regular trading hours.

Dow Jones News Wire contributed to this report.

Document RVSD000020101025dwab00cfx




Business
 Profit warning  depresses Lucent shares  

The Associated Press
98 words
11 October 2000
The Hamilton Spectator
HMSP
Final
D10
English
Copyright (c) 2000 The Hamilton Spectator.  

New York -- Lucent's stock, which had already lost nearly two-thirds of its value since late 1999, plunged even further in yesterday's after-hours trading. The stock, the second most widely held in the United States with about 5.3 million shareholders, slid below $25 after closing at $31.375 US on the New York Stock Exchange. The discouraging revision to the company's outlook was the third since early January, when Lucent first disclosed problems despite soaring demand for network equipment used to expand the Internet.  

Document HMSP000020051120dwab00fj1




 BIG PICTURE: Stocks And Other Softer Economic Signals 

 By John McAuley 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
911 words
11 October 2000
20:51
Capital Markets Report
CM
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Economists sometimes treat the stock market as more noise than signal. 

 But this time, equity investors might be onto something. The sell-off they've undertaken in recent days might say more about the outlook for the U.S. economy than, say, the drop in the unemployment rate, announced Friday, which returned to a 30-year low of 3.9%. 

 It seems that the current concern on Wall Street about a slowdown in earnings growth for many U.S. companies coincides with some specific indicators that aren't caught by the macroeconomic data. Although the broader data have clearly softened in recent months, they haven't yet pointed to any pervasive disruption in business activity. 

 Yet it if economic indicators are treated in a sequential order, where they start with new orders and then continue through to employment and production before culminating in sales, developing weaknesses can be traced at the start of the chain. Some economists see that as a sign of wider problems now surfacing in some of the high-flying industries that also attracted attention in the stock market this past week. Indeed, Lucent Technologies Inc's (LU) profit warning late Tuesday could say more than simply that analysts' expectations were too high. 

 "There's something going on in the tech sector" says Joe Carson, chief economist at UBS Warburg. "Electronic components look quite sick and communications also look sick." 

 At first blush, this assessment seems at odds with a superficial look at the headlines for the industry. 

 Production of electronic components is up 84.5% in the year to August, while employment for the sector has gained 6.8% in the year through September. Moreover, both measures recorded solid gains in the latest month: production in the electronic equipment components industry rose 3.5% in August and employment rose by 0.6% in September. 


       Uh-Oh, Look What's Coming



But production and employment are coincident indicators.  It's when
you look at the leading indicators - of what future production and
employment are likely to do - that the signs of illness are evident, and
these explain the stock market's discomfort.



New orders - the basis for future production and employment - are
distinctly weak.  In the year through August, new orders for electronic
components manufacturers are down 12.5% and, although orders rebounded
by 9.2% in August, they were down 77.6% between May and August.



UBS Warburg's Carson points to a similar contrast between shipments -
a coincident indicator - and new orders.  "While the (year-on-year)
growth rate for electronic components shipments quickened from 19.8% in
the first quarter to 27.8% in the second and third quarters, new orders
had first quickened from a 26.3% rate in the first quarter to 37.1% in
the second quarter, to a 6.8% rate of decline in the third quarter."
(Carson uses an average of July and August to come up with his third
quarter growth estimates as September data are not yet available.)



And "as bad as the business environment for personal computer makers
and electronic components appear to be, trends in the telecommunications
sector look much worse,"  notes Carson.  "Orders for communications
equipment ended the second quarter 37% above year-ago levels, but took a
sharp turn for the worse in the third quarter, up only 10% on a
year-year basis and down 12% quarter-quarter."



Numbers like this would appear to give some justification to broader
stock market softness. The reason, Carson says, is that "investment in
new technology is critical to the near- and long-term outlook for the
economy.  It has not only helped power a very fast and long upturn in
economic activity, but it has helped lift labor productivity as well."



       The Glass Is Half Full



Yet others can look at the same data and draw a different - more
bullish - conclusion.



"Office, computer, and communications equipment are doing well"
asserts Marty Mauro, senior economist at Merrill Lynch.  "High tech
looks pretty good, very good in fact," Mauro says.



Why then has the stock market soured on the high-tech sector?



"There were very ambitious and aggressive earnings estimates built
into the market," concludes Mauro, "which were unrealistic.
Nevertheless, the gains to date in high-tech investment have produced
the enhancement to productivity."



Mauro points to the recent performance of the NAPM manufacturing
index, which was below the critical level of 50 in both August and
September, but only just.  "At 49.5 in August and 49.9 in September,
these readings really point to a flat performance rather than a
slowdown," Mauro concludes.  "The problem is more due to the slowing of
growth abroad and the `old' industry sector getting hit."



Carson agrees that the "old" industries - he cites textiles in
particular - "have been on a weaker growth path longer," but that
doesn't make him any more optimistic. Carson sees the problems in
technology and other sectors ultimately helping to drive the economy
into a hard landing in 2001.



"This is a different kind of slowdown than in 1998," Carson said. "In
1998, prices collapsed, now orders are weak."



But Merrill Lynch's Mauro says the "underlying fundamentals are still
good," offering the kind of contrast of opinion that helps make markets
possible.
   John McAuley, Dow Jones Newswires, 201-938-4425
   john.mcauley@dowjones.com


Document cm00000020010804dwab00ovq




 Lucent stock drops sharply after  profit warning 

 By BRUCE MEYERSON 
AP Business Writer
469 words
11 October 2000
15:27
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Shares of Lucent Technologies plunged 32 percent Wednesday, hitting a two-year low, after the beleaguered producer of telecommunications equipment warned for the third time this year that profits won't meet steadily declining expectations. 

 Crushing hopes for a speedy turnaround by the former Wall Street darling, Lucent disclosed after major stock markets closed Tuesday that earnings for the quarter ended Sept. 30 have come in below the company's previous forecasts to Wall Street analysts. 

 Lucent's stock, which had already lost nearly two-thirds of its value since late 1999, plunged even further in trading Wednesday. The stock, the second-most widely held in the nation with about 5.3 million shareholders, closed down $10.00 to $21.38 on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 The discouraging revision to the company's outlook was the third since early January, when Lucent first disclosed problems in the growth of its business despite soaring demand for the network equipment being used to expand the Internet. 

 The stream of disappointments, which has severely tarnished Lucent's credibility among Wall Street analysts, comes in stark contrast to the robust business reported by top rivals such as Nortel Networks. 

 During a conference call after the warning, company officials tried to reassure a skeptical audience of industry analysts. 

 "Our problems have been identified and they are very fixable," said Deborah C. Hopkins, Lucent's chief financial officer. Despite this year's stumbles, she said, "I believe we are sitting on a gold mine." 

 Lucent, based in Murray Hill, N.J., blamed part of the latest profit shortfall on weak revenues and profit margins in its optical systems business. 

 The company also said its results were hurt by a faster-than-expected drop in sales of circuit-switching gear for telephone networks, and the need to set aside more cash reserves for possible bad loans to smaller customers. 

 Lucent now expects to report a profit from continuing operations of 17 cents to 18 cents a share for the just-ended quarter, down from 24 cents in the same period last year and 10 cents below recent forecasts of industry analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Lucent also warned that the weak showing has prompted the company to lower its expectations for the new fiscal year that began Oct. 1. 

 In a bid to address its troubles and win back the trust of investors, Lucent has embarked on a major reorganization. The company recently spun off a slower-growing business that makes office telephone systems as an independent company named Avaya. Lucent is also planning an initial public offering of stock in a unit that makes semiconductors, lasers and other components used to build fiber-optic networks. 

Rush

Document aprs000020010804dwab01mlq




 NZ's Tranz Rail Likely To Shift Marketing Operations To Auckland 

650 words
10 October 2000
23:27
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 WELLINGTON -(Dow Jones)- New Zealand's Tranz Rail Holdings Ltd. (TNZR) Wednesday confirmed the move of its marketing operations to Auckland is "almost certain." 

 Last week a source close to the company told Dow Jones Newswires one of the main initiatives from a strategic review by the transport concern would be the Auckland base. 

 This would move the marketing team nearer to the head offices of several major customers. The company's customers include forestry concern Carter Holt Harvey Ltd. (A.CHV) and Fletcher Challenge Ltd.'s forests division (FFS). 

 On Tuesday Tranz Rail used its annual meeting to reveal changes as part of the ongoing strategic review. 

 On Wednesday, Tranz Rail Corporate Relations Manager Fred Cockram said the group's entire sales and marketing team would very likely move to Auckland from Wellington. 

 Cockram said, from comments by Managing Director Michael Beard and from Rail Services Group General Manager Noel Coom, "I would say it is almost certain that our whole pricing, marketing group, bearing in mind many are already in Auckland, will be in Auckland before the end of the year." 

 Cockram said the sales team would also be based in Auckland where the Tranz Rail's freight and distribution units have had a base for many years. 

 Cockram also raised the possibility of a move of Tranz Rail's other head office operations to Auckland. 

 "More significant would be if or when Michael (Beard) decides to take other elements of the head office to Auckland," he said. 

 Cockram said the company has been looking at an Auckland property to base staff, but added he isn't sure how far negotiations on the property have proceeded. 

 In a statement issued late Tuesday, Finance Minister Michael Cullen said Tranz Rail's new business plan had important implications for New Zealand because it implied changes to the operation of commuter rail services, loss of some rural services and a shift of non-containerized goods onto road freight services. 

 "Tranz Rail says that it wants to explore a number of these questions with the government. We are fully open to that discussion," Cullen said. 

 Cockram said Tranz Rail will meet with Cullen and Minister for Economic Development Jim Anderton later Wednesday to brief them on the company's strategic review, saying Transport Minister Mark Gosche has already been briefed. 

 "We're going up and discussing some specific issues - I don't know what those issues will be. They've asked for the meeting...and I guess we'll talk through any concerns they have," he said. 

 On Tuesday the company announced a major restructuring that will see it outsource 3,400 jobs and sell non-core businesses as it concentrates on improving the profitability of its rail freight operations. Tranz Rail closed at NZ$3.85 Tuesday, up 5 cents, or 1.3%, compared with its previous close. Trading in the company's shares was suspended late in the Tuesday session, after a profit-warning from the company was accidentally released early by the stock exchange. 

 In the warning the company said its result for the first quarter of the year to June 30, 2001 will be negatively impacted by a huge leap in fuel prices. 

 At 2235 GMT, Tranz Rail shares were trading at NZ$3.68, down 17 cents or 4.42% from Tuesday's close, while the benchmark NZSE-40 capital index is trading down 0.83%. 

 Tranz Rail Holdings, formerly New Zealand Rail Ltd., is one of New Zealand's largest transportation companies. It operates freight and passenger trains as well as a rail ferry service between the North and South Islands. 

 U.S.-based rail concern Wisconsin Central Transportation Corp. (WCLX), has around a 23.2% stake in Tranz Rail. 

 -By Alan Wood, Dow Jones Newswires; 64 4 801 8960; alan.wood@dowjones.com 

Document dji0000020010820dwaa001na


Newscast: Business news and stock report   

600 words
10 October 2000
CBS News: Morning News
CBSM
English
(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

JULIE CHEN, anchor:   

On Wall Street, stock prices were lower in light trading. The Dow lost 28 points on Monday, ending at 10,568.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Dow Jones Industrials   

10,568.43   

down 28.11   

Volume: 716,620,000   

CBS.Marketwatch.Com   

CHEN: The NASDAQ closed at 3,355 after losing 5 points.   

(Graphic on screen)   

NASDAQ   

3,355.56   

down 5.45   

CBS.marketwatch.Com   

CHEN: In Tokyo, the Nikkei was down 1 percent overnight.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Tokyo Nikkei Average   

15.827.72   

down 166.52   

Change: down 1.04%   

CBS.Marketwatch.Com   

On the CBS MarketWatch, earnings reports that will move the market this week. Here's Alexis Christoforous.   

ALEXIS CHRISTOFOROUS reporting:   

Tech stocks staged a huge comeback in a day of remarkable swings. The NASDAQ tumbled 120 points early on, before bottom fishers moved in to rescue the market. Of course, the Columbus Day and Yom Kippur holidays kept the trading volume very thin, but a lot are not convinced that this is a true turnaround. They say the light trading volume represents a lack of conviction on the part of investors. Analysts say what we really need is for the earnings season to get under way to move the markets higher, provided the news is good. Investors won't only be looking at this quarter's profits. They want to hear what the companies have to say about their near-term outlook.   

Here at the NASDAQ,  Intel another big loser, down more than 2 percent on the day.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Intel -2.2% 39.06 -0.88   

CHRISTOFOROUS: Also contributing to the wild ride, Cisco Systems, down more than 4 percent.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Cisco Systems -4.4% 53.69 -2.50   

CHRISTOFOROUS: And  Microsoft now sitting at a new 52-week low.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Microsoft -2.5% 54.19 -1.39   

CHRISTOFOROUS: On the upside, though,  Yahoo! rallied 5 1/2 percent.  Yahoo! is out with earnings after Tuesday's closing bell, and that report is seen as key. It could, in fact, set the tone for trading for the rest of the week.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Yahoo! +5.5% 85.75 +4.50   

CHRISTOFOROUS: And the networking equipment company  Juniper Networks up better than 5 percent. This company out with earnings on Thursday.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Juniper +5.2% Networks 199.56 +9.81   

CHRISTOFOROUS: The gourmet food retailer  Williams-Sonoma saw its stock get cooked, down about 30 percent after sounding a profit warning.  Williams-Sonoma blames the shortfall on disappointing catalog sales.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Stock Cooks   

William Sonoma (WSM) down 7.88 to 19.00   

CHRISTOFOROUS: But the computer services company EDS rallied after landing a $7 billion contract from the Navy.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Navy Contract   

EDS (EDS) up 4.00 to 44.62   

CHRISTOFOROUS: And oil stocks sprinted higher, along with the price of crude. There's worry that escalating tensions in the Middle East could disrupt oil output, and this early cold snap in the Northeast is putting the squeeze on already low oil supplies.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Oil Stocks Sprint   

ChevronExxon Mobil Texaco (CHV) (XOM) (TX)   

up 1.62 up 1.69 up 1.12 to 86.00 to 91.12 to 52.94   

CHRISTOFOROUS: At the NASDAQ Marketsite, I'm Alexis Christoforous, CBS MarketWatch.   

CHEN: For the latest on the markets, click on cbs.marketwatch.com.   

Straight ahead on the CBS MORNING NEWS, check the calender, it's winter in October.   

And in sports, receive Randy Moss celebrates Viking style.   

(Announcements)   

Document CBSM000020070818dwaa002qm




 Factiva Energy Digest - October 10, 2000. 

4,392 words
10 October 2000
Factiva Energy Digest
RTEN
English
(c) 2000  Dow Jones Reuters Business Interactive LLC, trading as Factiva

 OIL & GAS HEADLINES 

 *Oil Still Prey to Spikes Due to Low Stocks 

 *Saudi Will Not Consider Halting Oil to West 

 *OPEC Boosts September World Oil Flows Towards 77.4 Million Barrels a Day 

 *United Arab Emirates Invites Key OPEC Oil Ministers to October Conference 

 *U.S. Official Seeks Probe of Possible Discrimination at Energy Department 

 *Royal Dutch, Apache Agree to Buy New Zealand's Fletcher Energy for $1.63 Billion 

 *Mexican Oil Production Disrupted by Storms 

 *Pertamina Says in Talks With Singapore Refining to Process Crude 

 *Kuwait Defers Mina Crude Unit Restart to Mid-October 

 *Russia Formally Approves Three Oil Production Projects 

 *Venezuela's Main Oil Union Threatens Nationwide Action 

 *Croatia's Industrija Nafte Offers to Supply Oil to Yugoslavia Following Sanctions Lift s 

 *Romania to Start Final Talks for Petromidia Refinery Sale 

 *Vietnam Makes New Oil Offshore Oil Discovery 

 *Austria's OMV AG Joint Venture to Develop Pakistan Gas Field 

 *Chevron, Shell, Schlumberger to Form Energy Software Company 

 POWER & UTILITY HEADLINES 

 *German Energy Giant E.On to Cut Power Capacity 16% to Boost Net Profit 

 *Electricity Crunch May Force the U.S. Into Tough Tradeoffs 

 *Fierce Bidding War Looms for Italian Power Plants 

 REGULATORY & ENVIRONMENT HEADLINES 

 *New Zealand Antitrust Body Inquiry Into Electricity Line Pricing 

 *U.K.'s Ofgem Probes Possible Gas Market Manipulation 

 ************************************** 

 OIL & GAS 

 *Oil Still Prey to Spikes Due to Low Stocks 

 LONDON (Reuters) - Fragile oil markets remain prey to extreme volatility with only a thin layer of spare stocks cushioning against shortages, the industrialized world's energy watchdog said on Tuesday. Low inventories and near-maximum operating rates mean no room for error ahead of peak northern hemisphere winter demand, the Paris-based International Energy Agency (IEA) reported. 

 "There is precious little room for contingencies... The market remains on edge, and prices are responding accordingly," the IEA Monthly Oil Market Report said. "Fundamentals are tight and the market is fragile," it said. "The system is strained and running hard just to keep even... Vigilance is the order of the day." 

 Crude prices have fallen by around 10% from 10-year peaks since Washington last month announced plans to release 30 million barrels of emergency supply to try to cool markets. But stubbornly low stocks continue to create instability in energy prices by exposing the market to potential disruptions and the gyrating effect of regional supply imbalances. 

 The IEA said inventories in member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) fell by 400,000 barrels a day in August due to increased refinery activity and rising demand for finished products. 

 *Saudi Will Not Consider Halting Oil to West 

 LONDON (Reuters) - Saudi Arabia will not consider the option of holding back oil supplies to the West to protest Israeli use of force in the Middle East, a source familiar with the kingdom's thinking said on Tuesday. "This is not even being talked about. It is not being considered. It is out of the question," the source told Reuters. 

 The source was speaking after a warning on Monday from Saudi Crown Prince Abdullah to Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak against Israel taking military action in Lebanon and Syria. The source said that it was no longer politically and economically viable for the kingdom or other Arab petroleum producers to impose an embargo on oil sales. 

 "Using the oil weapon would be using a weapon against ourselves," he said. "We would lose status in the world order and our economies would be hurt." In October 1973, Saudi Arabian King Faisal sanctioned the Arab oil embargo to punish the West for its support of Israel in the Arab-Israeli war. 

 The Saudi crown prince did not specify what action the world's largest crude oil producer might take. "Barak has to think before taking any step...and nobody should think that the kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the whole Arab and Islamic nation would just watch with their hands tied," the crown prince said. 

 *OPEC Boosts September World Oil Flows Towards 77.4 Million Barrels a Day 

 LONDON (Reuters) - OPEC turned up the taps last month and swelled world oil output to 77.4 million barrels a day - a rise of 380,000 barrels a day on August, the International Energy Agency said on Tuesday. OPEC pumped an extra 290,000 barrels a day during September to reach 28.98 million barrels a day, the Paris-based energy watchdog said. 

 Saudi Arabia, the world's biggest oil producer, turned up its taps last month by 245,000 barrels a day to 8.845 million barrels a day, the IEA said. Iran, OPEC's second biggest producer, boosted flows by 160,000 barrels a day to 3.65 million barrels a day. 

 The IEA said output for 10 OPEC members with quotas, excluding sanctions-bound Iraq, rose 410,000 barrels a day to touch 26.1 million barrels a day in September - just shy of the cartel's new 26.2 million barrels a day output ceiling effective from October 1. 

 Non-OPEC supply is expect to grow by 800,000 barrels a day during the fourth quarter, the IEA said. 

 *United Arab Emirates Invites Key OPEC Oil Ministers to October Conference 

 LONDON (Reuters) - United Arab Emirates Oil Minister Obaid bin Saif al-Nasseri has invited key OPEC oil ministers to attend an oil exhibition in Abu Dhabi next week, an industry source said on Monday. Invitations for the ADIPEC conference have been extended to Nasseri's colleagues from the Gulf Cooperation Council, Libya, Syria and Egypt as well as OPEC Secretary-General Rilwanu Lukman, the source added. 

 The source declined to comment on whether the ministers would discuss production policy ahead of OPEC's extraordinary November 12 meeting in Vienna. It was not clear if influential Saudi Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi will attend the talks, set against the backdrop of runaway oil prices that OPEC is struggling to ease. 

 Kuwaiti Oil Minister Sheikh Saud Nasser al-Sabah, Qatari Oil Minister Abdullah bin Hamad al-Attiyah and Omani Oil Minister Mohammed bin Hamad al-Rumhy have confirmed they will attend the oil and gas conference scheduled from October 15-18. A senior OPEC delegate told Reuters on Monday that the cartel will raise production by 500,000 barrels a day under its price band mechanism before the November meeting if prices stay too high. 

 *U.S. Official Seeks Probe of Possible Discrimination at Energy Department 

 WASHINGTON (Dow Jones) - Energy Secretary Bill Richardson wants an internal investigation into whether any government or contractor employees working for the U.S. Department of Energy have been victims of racial profiling, the Associated Press reported. 

 Mr. Richardson said in an interview that he remains convinced that the high-profile case of former weapons scientist Wen Ho Lee, a native of Taiwan, didn't involve racial profiling. But he said there are "enough instances throughout the complex" to raise suspicion that such discrimination has gone on within the department and its vast contractor system. "I want to eliminate once and for all any future suspicions," he said. 

 Mr. Lee, who was suspected of espionage, pleaded guilty to one count of having unlawful retention of national-defense information. He had been charged with 59 counts by the Justice Department and was facing life in prison. The U.S. government's case against Mr. Lee began unraveling in August when one of the lab's most experienced weapons designers testified at a bail hearing that the information Mr. Lee downloaded wasn't secret or damaging to the nation's defense. 

 Mr. Richardson didn't give any specific cases of racial profiling at the Energy Department. 

 *Royal Dutch, Apache Agree to Buy New Zealand's Fletcher Energy for $1.63 Billion 

 HOUSTON (Dow Jones) - A unit of Royal Dutch/Shell Group Inc. and Apache Corp. have agreed to buy Fletcher Challenge Ltd.'s energy division for $1.63 billion. The sale is part of the New Zealand conglomerate's restructuring, which will result in the remaining building and forest units becoming separate publicly traded companies. 

 Under the umbrella of Shell Overseas Holdings Group, Apache (APA) will pay $600 million for the unit's Canadian and Argentinean divisions, which Apache said hold reserves of 713 billion cubic feet of natural-gas equivalent. 

 Shell Overseas Holdings agreed to buy the rest of Fletcher Challenge, which includes the company's operations in New Zealand and Brunei, for about $1.03 billion in cash and debt. Shell didn't break down how much debt was included in the deal, and representatives of the Netherlands oil company couldn't be reached. To help fund its part of the purchase, Apache said Shell (RD, SC) agreed to pay about $100 million for 1.64 million restricted shares in oil and gas company Apache. 

 Shell said it was acquiring proven reserves in New Zealand of 177 million barrels of oil and its equivalent in natural gas. It expects the reserve figure will increase to 299 million barrels of oil equivalent. Shell currently has proven New Zealand reserves of 113 million barrels of oil equivalent, and it expects the reserves figure will increase to 176 million barrels of oil equivalent. 

 *Mexican Oil Production Disrupted by Storms 

 MEXICO CITY (Reuters) - Mexico's oil production suffered minor disruptions last week because of the heavy rains and choppy seas wrought by Hurricane Keith and its aftermath, though the full impact on output levels was not immediately known, the state oil company said on Monday. 

 A spokesperson for Petroleos Mexicanos (Pemex) told Reuters that the nation's Gulf of Mexico output - which accounts for the bulk of its production - was affected late last week as the hurricane swept up Mexico's eastern coast. The effects were still being assessed, the spokesperson added. 

 The Gulf is home to the vast Cantarell off-shore oil field, the origin of roughly one-half of Mexico's overall production. In August the nation's output averaged 3.162 million barrels a day. A Pemex official said last Thursday that initial reviews had indicated no impact on output from the bad weather. 

 Keith, a storm that went from a Category 4 hurricane to a depression and then back to hurricane strength, dumped several inches of rain on Mexico's east and southeast and lashed the region with fierce winds and choppy seas through the week. 

 *Pertamina Says in Talks With Singapore Refining to Process Crude 

 JAKARTA (Reuters) - Indonesia's state oil company Pertamina on Tuesday confirmed it was in talks with the Singapore Refining Company (SRC) to process crude oil but said the two sides were still some way apart on terms. Processing Director Ariffi Nawawi told Reuters Pertamina still targets to process 100,000 barrels a day offshore. 

 "We already have 50,000 barrels a day with Shell (Singapore) and then 20,000 barrels a day with Petronas. There is still room for crude processing deals with other refiners," said Nawawi. "However, we still have differences in terms. I don't want to pay too much," he added. He gave no details. 

 Pertamina last week signed a deal to process 20,000 barrels a day of sour crude at Malaysia's Petronas Malacca refinery for six months from November 1. 

 "This deal will give Pertamina security of supply of oil products from abroad instead of looking at spot market. The deal also guarantees our domestic stocks. I don't want to say how much the deal is," Nawawi said. 

 *Kuwait Defers Mina Crude Unit Restart to Mid-October 

 SINGAPORE (Reuters) - State-owned Kuwait Petroleum Corp (KPC) is aiming to restart its 200,000 barrels a day Mina al-Ahmadi crude unit in mid October, after restart attempts last week were unsuccessful, industry sources said on Tuesday. 

 They said Kuwait had restarted the unit briefly on October 7, but faced some difficulties, prompting them to bring the unit back down. They said Kuwait would attempt another restart on October 13/October 14. 

 Traders had said last month they had been informed by KPC that it planned to restart the unit on October 7. 

 The entire Mina al-Ahmadi refinery, which has a capacity of 485,000 bpd, has been shut down since June 25 following an explosion that killed six people. The refinery is operated by Kuwait National Petroleum Co (KNPC). 

 *Russia Formally Approves Three Oil Production Projects 

 MOSCOW (Dow Jones) - The Russian government Tuesday formally approved three projects to explore for oil and gas with the publication of signed legislation authorizing production-sharing arrangements for the fields. The official government daily Rossiiskaya Gazeta published legislation authorizing PSA status for the Kharampurskoye, Komsomolskoye and Tyanskoye fields. 

 PSA status is a trade-off in which companies producing commodities such as oil, gas or gold deliver a share of output to the regional and federal Russian governments in return for being given a stable tax and regulatory regime for the lifetime of their projects. 

 Two of the fields granted PSA status, Komsomolskoye and Kharampurskoye, are operated by OAO Purneftegaz (R.PNG), a traded oil company controlled by RAO Rosneft, a state-owned oil and gas producer. The Komsomolskoye oil field in the Yamal-Nenets region of northern Siberia has recoverable reserves of 120 million metric tons of oil. 

 The Kharampurskoye field, also in Yamal-Nenets, has ABC1 crude reserves of 118.5 million tons and C2 reserves of 37.4 million tons. Gas reserves break down into ABC1 reserves of 387.5 billion cubic meters and C2 reserves of 351.3 billion cubic meters. 

 *Venezuela's Main Oil Union Threatens Nationwide Action 

 CARACAS - Venezuela's main labor union said a nationwide conflict in the oil sector is looming in the coming days if the government and state-owned oil monopoly Petroleos de Venezuela SA, or PdVSA, refuse to start up labor talks for a new collective labor agreement, the Wall Street Journal reported. 

 "If this situation continues, this show of disrespect, provocation ... we'll have a nationwide conflict," Carlos Ortega, president of Fedepetrol said in a televised interview Monday. "The situation at various oil installations throughout the country is explosive," he further said. He didn't say whether a nationwide conflict would mean a nationwide strike. 

 Mr. Ortega's comments came after representatives of PdVSA and the Labor Ministry failed to show up at a scheduled meeting Monday morning to discuss a new labor agreement. "We consider that as a provocation," Mr. Ortega added. 

 PdVSA and the two main oil unions, Fedepetrol and Fetrahydrocarburos have been in talks during the last two months over a new collective labor agreement (the previous one expired in November 1999). 

 *Croatia's Industrija Nafte Offers to Supply Oil to Yugoslavia Following Sanctions Lift 

 ZAGREB, Croatia (Dow Jones) - Croatian oil-and-gas concern Industrija Nafte, also known as INA, has offered to supply Yugoslavia with more than 1.5 million tons of oil and oil products, the Associated Press reported. The offer follows the recent decision by the European Union and other nations to lift a series of sanctions against Yugoslavia, which were spurred by the country's violent aggression against ethnic Albanians in the province of Kosovo in 1999. 

 The sanctions, initially lodged to fuel democratic change in the country, were lifted following the ouster of autocratic Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic. INA hasn't held talks with Yugoslav officials yet. 

 Relations between Croats and Serbs have remained tense since Croatia's independence from the Yugoslav federation, which sparked a war in 1991 and led to more than 15,000 fatalities. 

 However, INA's initiative signals Croatia's growing commercial interest in Yugoslavia. The country's telecommunications monopoly, Hrvatske Telekumunikacije, recently changed its logo, featuring the national colors of red, white and blue, in an effort to ease its way into the markets of other former federal partners, like Bosnia, Slovenia, Macedonia and Montenegro. 

 *Romania to Start Final Talks for Petromidia Refinery Sale 

 BUCHAREST, Romania (Dow Jones) - The Romanian privatization agency Tuesday will begin final negotiations for the sale of a 69% stake in the country's Petromidia SA refinery, the agency's press office said. Three companies, the U.S.'s BTC Partners Inc., Romanian private firm Petrolexportimport SA and Rompetrol Group BV, based in Rotterdam, have handed offers in for the Black Sea coast refinery. 

 The sale of Petromidia was relaunched earlier this year after the previous deal to sell the refinery to Turkish holding company Akmaya Sanayi Ve Ticaret AS was canceled by a court of justice. 

 In January 1999, Akmaya signed a $725 million deal, which included money for investment, to take over the refinery. However, it later refused to pay for the shares, saying the government had breached the contract by annulling incentives for foreign investors. A Romanian court rejected Akmaya's claims and decided to terminate the deal. 

 *Vietnam Makes New Oil Offshore Oil Discovery 

 SINGAPORE (Dow Jones) - Vietnam's Petrovietnam Supervision Co., or PVSC, has made a new oil find offshore southeast Vietnam, a PVSC official in Ho Chi Minh City said Tuesday. PVSC and its exploration partners struck oil with the first exploration well drilled in the block, said the official. The initial flow rate was about 12,600 barrels a day. 

 The discovery was in offshore Block 15-1 in the Black Lion oil field, about 140 kilometers offshore Vung Tau, near the Bach Ho, Ruby and Rang Dong fields. The crude oil quality is likely to be similar to Bach Ho crude, said the official, although more testing needs to be done. 

 Prior to exploration, oil reserves in the block were estimated to be about 250 million barrels, he said. Further appraisal will be done to determine the actual size of the discovery. The official said first commercial production will be in about three years if the field is found to be viable for development. 

 *Austria's OMV AG Joint Venture to Develop Pakistan Gas Field 

 VIENNA (Dow Jones) - Austrian oil and gas group OMV AG (R.OMV) said Tuesday a joint-venture led by its Pakistan Exploration GmbH unit has signed an agreement to develop the Sawan gas field. It signed the agreement with the Pakistani government and the Sui Southern Gas Company Limited. 

 OMV Pakistan operates the South West Miano joint-venture, in which it has a 19.74% stake. Other partners are Pakistan Petroleum Ltd., British-Borneo Exploration and Production Ltd., Government Holdings and Moravske Naftove Doly A.S. 

 The group will invest about $160 million over the next two years and will bring 170 million cubic feet a day of sales gas into the Sui Southern Gas Company Limited's Kadanwari transmission line by late 2002. 

 *Chevron, Shell, Schlumberger to Form Energy Software Company 

 HOUSTON (Dow Jones) - Chevron Corp., Royal Dutch/Shell Group Inc. and Schlumberger AG announced plans to create a company that will offer standardized software for the energy industry. 

 Each company would own an equal share of the venture, dubbed OpenSpirit Corp. The companies said OpenSpirit will fund development of the initial framework. OpenSpirit will market, support and further develop the vendor-neutral and platform-independent application framework. The software should be available by year's end. 

 Neil Buckley, an executive in Schlumberger's GeoQuest software-development unit, will be OpenSpirit's chief executive. "Until now, Mr. Buckley said in a prepared remarks, "there has not been a comparable framework capable of integrating data and applications from multiple sources in the E&P industry." 

 ************************************** 

 POWER & UTILITY 

 *German Energy Giant E.On to Cut Power Capacity 16% to Boost Net Profit 

 FRANKFURT (Dow Jones) - German energy company E.On AG said it will reduce power capacity by about 16% through 2003, in a move it hopes will boost net profit by 1.4 billion marks ($621.9 million or 715.7 million euros) over the next 10 years. 

 E.On said it would reduce its installed-power capacity of 30,000 megawatts by 4,800 megawatts - mainly in 2001 - in response to overcapacity in the liberalized German and European electricity market. The Dusseldorf, Germany-based company, the product of the recent merger of German energy companies Veba AG and Viag AG, said capacity reduction will involve nine plants, and include closing the Stade nuclear power plant in 2003. 

 E.On Chairman Hans-Dieter Harig has previously said that he sees excess power capacity of 10,000 megawatts in the German market. 

 In August, E.On reported a 10% decline in first-half operating profit and warned that the full-year results would fall in line with the first half. The warning was a surprise, as Veba and Viag, which merged in June to create E.On, had forecast in the first quarter that profits would be stable for 2000. 

 *Electricity Crunch May Force the U.S. Into Tough Tradeoffs 

 SAN FRANCISCO - At the height of California's electricity crunch this summer, PG&E Corp. wanted to anchor a floating power plant in San Francisco Bay to help avert potential brownouts. Environmentalists objected, arguing that the plant's four jet turbines would spew noxious fumes into the air and could spill fuel into the bay. They threatened to blockade the barge at the Golden Gate Bridge with a flotilla of small boats. 

 The energy company quickly backed off, diverting the floating rig, which had already passed through the Panama Canal en route from Texas, to a holding port in Oregon. When temperatures soared to the triple digits around here last month, Northern Californians once again cranked up their air conditioners, draining PG&E's electricity reserves anew and forcing it to cut power to 200 business customers. 

 The power shortages afflicting California and other parts of the nation are the product of the long economic boom, the increasing use of energy-guzzling computer devices, population growth and a slowdown in new power-plant construction amid the deregulation of the utility market. And as the shortages threaten to spread eastward over the next few years, more Americans may face a tradeoff they would rather not make in the long-running conflict between energy and the environment: whether to build more power plants or to contend with the economic headaches and inconveniences of inadequate power supplies, the Wall Street Journal reported. 

 The quandary is already evident as the nation's energy producers, even those proposing to meet the surging demand for electricity with the cleanest types of power plants, find themselves stymied by environmental groups concerned about pollution and damage to natural resources. The two sides are facing off coast to coast: from a proposed wind farm near Los Angeles, thwarted by bird enthusiasts, to a high-tech gas plant slated for New York's Hudson River Valley, under attack as a potential eyesore. Even hydroelectricity - among the most renewable energy resources - is under fire along the West Coast, from activists bent on unleashing wild rivers. 

 *Fierce Bidding War Looms for Italian Power Plants 

 ROME (Reuters) - Utilities are gearing up for a fierce bidding war to control three Italian power plants in a scramble for strategic stakes in the fast consolidating European electricity market, analysts said on Tuesday. 

 Italy's dominant utility Enel must sell 15,000 megawatts of generating capacity by 2003 to comply with the EU electricity directive on market liberalization. Officials have urged Enel to complete the sale well ahead of the deadline. 

 The three generating companies (gencos) to be sold are the 2,600 MW Interpower, 5,400 MW Elettrogen and 7,000 MW Eurogen. Several of Europe's leading utilities intend to bid for the gencos, and analysts expected them to compete aggressively for a slice of Enel's generating capacity. 

 "There is a limited supply of acquisition opportunities in large European markets that are growing," said James Crowley, analyst with Anderson Consulting in London. "There aren't many assets (plants) at scale coming onto the market. The big players need European scale long term to be successful," he added. "The sale of the Enel plants creates a beachhead in a very large market trying to embrace competition." 

 ************************************** 

 REGULATORY & ENVIRONMENT 

 *New Zealand Antitrust Body Inquiry Into Electricity Line Pricing 

 WELLINGTON, New Zealand (Dow Jones) - New Zealand's antitrust body, the Commerce Commission, said Tuesday it is initiating an inquiry into pricing by electricity line businesses. Chairman John Belgrave said the commission inquiry follows the New Zealand government announcement outlining a comprehensive policy package for the electricity industry. 

 He said the government's policy package contains additional functions for the commission, including the operation of a price control regime for electricity line services. Belgrave said the inquiry, carried out under Commerce Act provisions, will be conducted with a view to putting the commission in a position where it can report to Energy Minister Pete Hodgson on price control for electricity line services. "Information obtained in the course of the inquiry will also provide a basis for the commission to exercise its future price control function," he said. 

 Belgrave said the inquiry will examine pricing issues in respect of both local electricity line businesses and the state-owned Transpower Ltd., which runs the national transmission grid. 

 He said the commission will issue Tuesday a preliminary issues paper outlining the steps the commission proposes to take and the procedures to adopt in conducting its inquiry. Submissions are sought on this paper. 

 *U.K.'s Ofgem Probes Possible Gas Market Manipulation 

 LONDON (Reuters) - Britain's energy regulator Ofgem said on Monday it was investigating whether there was any manipulation of the wholesale gas market on certain days in August and September. "We have written to all (gas) shippers requesting information on their trades at the National Balancing Point and Beach for certain days in August and September," an Ofgem spokesman told Reuters. 

 In a statement Ofgem said the move was prompted by problems experienced by pipeline operator BG Transco as a result of shippers' actions which forced the company to buy and sell gas to balance the system at a substantial loss and caused very high prices in the spot market. 

 ************************************** 

 Full versions of these and other energy stories are available from Dow Jones Interactive and Reuters Business Briefing 

 ************************************** 

 Factiva Contact: Marc Donatiello, +1 609-520-7834, marc.donatiello@factiva.com. 

 (c) Copyright 2000, Dow Jones Reuters Business Interactive LLC, trading as Factiva 

 Homepage Address: http://www.factiva.com. 

Document rten000020010815dwaa00066




 EXCLUSIVE:CS Group CEO: No Junk Bond Losses At CSFB, DLJ 

 By Kim Frick 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
464 words
9 October 2000
19:45
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 ZURICH -(Dow Jones)- Credit Suisse Group (Z.CSG) Chief Executive Lukas Muehlemann refuted speculation Monday that the Swiss banking giant and its recently acquired U.S. investment bank Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette (DLJ) will incur heavy losses from their junk bond businesses. 

 "It's a rumor that is totally unsubstantiated," Muehlemann told Dow Jones Newswires following a business round-table discussion in Zurich. 

 The speculation sent shares of Credit Suisse down CHF26.50, or 8%, at CHF307 at the close of trading on Monday in Zurich. The overall blue-chip Swiss Market Index closed down 2.1% at 7756.3 from 7920.2 at Friday's close. 

 Credit Suisse was forced to call analysts on Monday in an effort to douse the rumors. 

 "We said it's a completely unfounded rumor that Credit Suisse First Boston has a problem in its high-yield or distressed activities, nor (does) DLJ," Muehlemann said. 

 DLJ, which Credit Suisse will acquire for $11.5 billion, is the leader in underwriting U.S. and Western European high-yield bond deals. 

 For the first nine-months of this year, DLJ ranked no. 1 in U.S. high yield corporate debt issuance with about $6.3 billion, according to Thomson Financial Securities Data of Newark, New Jersey. 

 For the same period, CSFB ranked no. 8 in the U.S., with about $2.2 billion in junk bond issuance. 

 To date, DLJ has captured 16.3% market share of the junk bond market. 

 For Credit Suisse, it was the second time in less than two weeks that the group has seen its share price fall on market speculation. 

 At an extraordinary shareholders meeting on Sept. 29, comments by Muehlemann sparked more than 6% sell-off in Credit Suisse shares after a news agency report interpreted the comments as a profit warning. 

 Muehlemann said then, that investments in new business activities and technologies and the acquisition of DLJ "may impact on annual results." 

 Later that day, Credit Suisse officials denied the company had issued a profit-warning and reiterated earlier comments that the group still expects a "reasonable" third quarter and a "good overall" full year result. 

 On Monday, when asked if Credit Suisse still expects a good overall result for the full-year, Muehlemann said "absolutely". 

 "Look, if something would have changed we would have said it," he said. 

 Also on Monday, the European Union Commission gave its antitrust clearance to Credit Suisse to purchase DLJ and Credit Suisse said it will extend its offer to acquire all outstanding shares of DLJ through Nov. 2, from Oct. 11, previously. 

 -By Kim Frick; Dow Jones Newswires; 41 1 211 6637; kim.frick@dowjones.com 

Document dji0000020010805dwa904yak




 RadioWallStreet.com Talks Williams-Sonoma With David Magee, Robinson Humphrey Managing Director 

218 words
9 October 2000
21:32
Business Wire
BWR
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Business Wire) 

 PHILADELPHIA--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Oct. 9, 2000--Today on RadioWallStreet.com, Robinson Humphrey Managing Director, David Magee will be discussing Williams-Sonoma's (NYSE: WSM) third quarter profit warning. 

 He also comments on CVS Corporation (NYSE: CVS), Bed, Bath & Beyond (NASDAQ: BBBY), and Cost Plus, Inc. (NASDAQ: CPWM). You can listen to this interview on-demand at http://www.radiowallstreet.com/NASApp/RWS/EventPage?ID=45191. 

 To access this RadioWallStreet.com program go to http://radiowallstreet.com. First time listeners may need to download free audio software beforehand linked via the RadioWallStreet.com site. All RadioWallStreet.com interviews and programs are available on-demand and free of charge. 

 RadioWallStreet.com is the leading multimedia Internet provider of investment news, information and analysis, is a service of Investor Broadcast Network. 

 About Investor Broadcast Network 

 Investor Broadcast Network is the leading broadcaster of real-time investment information and analysis on the Internet. With a complete portfolio of web-based broadcast communication services, the company gives investors access to the inner circle of corporate executives and industry experts. 

 For more information on Investor Broadcast Network visit www.investorbroadcast.com

Document bwr0000020010804dwa904ey2


 Apple halves in value. 

130 words
9 October 2000
Electronics Times
ELTIM
14
English
(c) 2000 Miller Freeman

 As Electronics Times went to press, Apple Computer was still trading at less than half its value of the previous week, following a profit warning. 

 A week ago its stock was trading at more than $53 a share. But after it said Q4 earnings will be "substantially below" expectations due to lower than expected sales in September, its share price plunged to around $29 and has since continued falling. 

 It stood at $22.31 per share seven days after the profit warning. The related market capitalisation of the company has consequently also been halved to stand at $7.25bn. 

 Apple now expects earnings for the quarter to be $110m rather than $165m, but Steve Jobs, CEO, remains positive for the future. 

 Copyright: United Business Media Ltd. 

Document eltim00020010807dwa9002wo




 Other Voices: Views from Beyond the Barron's Staff --- Euro as Scapegoat: Tighter credit is a greater threat to U.S. corporate profits 

 By Richard M. Salsmana 
1,890 words
9 October 2000
Barron's
B
55
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 A growing number of U.S. multinationals doing business in Europe are attributing a slowdown in their third-quarter profits to the weakening euro. Analysts and market strategists on Wall Street tend to agree. Many even go so far as to say the euro's weakness could be responsible for a slowdown in broad measures of profits -- like those earned by S&P 500 companies. 

 What's the general theme being advanced in these conventional interpretations? That firms operating in a nation with a relatively stronger currency (like the U.S. in recent years) somehow suffer a competitive disadvantage against those operating in countries with weak currencies (such as those in the eurozone). 

 This theme is widely taught by university economists and repeated faithfully by thousands of ex-students working in financial media. But it's a false theme that's completely at odds with logic and historical fact. 

 As a general rule, nations with stronger currencies tend to enjoy lower and falling rates of inflation and interest rates. All else being equal, that climate is bullish for bonds and stocks. Since stock prices tend to anticipate future profit trends, nations with stronger currencies also tend to enjoy healthier profit growth. The profits of firms in weak-currency nations, in contrast, suffer from high and rising rates of inflation and interest. 

 Abundant historical evidence supports the view that a strong currency is bullish for local profits. Consider first the U.S. dollar's exchange rate against Europe's. The precursor to the euro, the European Currency Unit, or ecu, has a history going back to 1978. We splice this into the briefer history of the euro (launched January 1, 1999) and observe how the fluctuations in Europe's currency over the past 21 years have influenced the profits of S&P 500 companies. 

 In the 10 years that the dollar appreciated most against the ecu/euro (on average, by 12.3%), S&P profits in the same period rose on average by a healthy 9.5%. In the 10 years the dollar appreciated least and depreciated most (by an average of 6.3%), S&P profits climbed by less than half that rate, or an average of 4.1%. 

 A stricter test of the proposition might observe how U.S. profits respond to changes in the dollar against the currencies of major trading partners -- not just Europe, but Canada, Japan, Mexico and the U.K., as well. The Federal Reserve has maintained a trade-weighted dollar index since 1974. What emerges is roughly the same pattern as can be seen with the dollar versus ecu/euro: A stronger dollar helps U.S. profits; a weaker dollar hurts them. 

 Over the span since 1974, in the 13 years that the dollar appreciated most against the currencies of trading partners (on average, by 10.2%), S&P profits increased by an average of 8%. In the 13 years the dollar appreciated least and depreciated most-on average, by 0.7%S&P profits rose by less, an average of 7.6%. 

 Many analysts have been perplexed that U.S. profits have held up so well to date against a weak euro. After all, the dollar appreciated 16.3% against the euro in 1999; instead of U.S. profits suffering, as the conventional view expected, they accelerated, to 17% (in the fourth quarter of 1999 over the year-earlier span). And U.S. profits continued to accelerate in the first half of this year, when the dollar strengthened another 18%. 

 How can it be that U.S. profits tend, if anything, to grow more quickly when the dollar is strengthening than when it's weakening? You have to look at the bigger picture. A stronger dollar tends to lower U.S. costs (especially the cost of imports). That helps preserve -- or widen -- domestic profit margins. Moreover, a stronger dollar usually brings lower inflation and interest rates, permitting faster growth in unit sales. Growing revenues and declining -- or even stable -- unit costs are the best prescription for rapid profit growth. 

 Does this mean the profits of particular U.S. firms with heavy exposure in Europe are immune to euro weakness? No. Foreign currency translations can impose losses. But even these tend to be overstated. And firms can hedge against them by currency futures or by booking foreign sales in dollars instead of euros. 

 For many years in the 1970s and again in the late 1980s, when the yen was appreciating significantly against the dollar, that's precisely what Japanese firms did to remain profitable. Japan's prosperity terminated in 1990, but not because of the yen's prior strength. The country's monetary officials reversed policy in the late 1980s. They imposed massive rate hikes and allowed a 24% depreciation of the yen from the fall of 1988 to the spring of 1990. 

 Too often corporate executives blame a strong dollar for profits that are slowing for other reasons. Imagine an extreme case: a U.S. firm that earns half its profits from Europe and half domestically. Suppose the firm currently earns $10 a share and expects growth of 10% in each region, to $11 a share, before currency changes. The firm's U.S-specific earnings will grow to $5.50 a share. But if the euro drops 18% (as it has in the past year), the 10% growth in the firm's European profits will be transformed into an 8% decline (to $4.50 a share) when translated back into dollars. All else being equal, that's bad news. Even so, in the new year the firm will still report total earnings of $10 a share. That's no increase from the year earlier, but it's no decline, either. 

 Now perform the same math for a firm that earns a lesser, but still significant, share of its profits from Europe (say, 25%). Despite an 18% drop in the euro, you'll find that the firm would still enjoy growth in total earnings of 5%, to $10.50 a share from $10 a share a year earlier. 

 It may now be more understandable why even a sharp decline in the euro versus the dollar exerts no material negative influence on broader measures of U.S. corporate profits. Very few U.S. multinationals generate anything close to 50% of their earnings from Europe alone. And there are many more U.S. companies -- including the multinationals -- who benefit significantly from the low-cost operating and capital structures that are so common in strong-currency nations. 

 No corporate financial officer should wish for a weak dollar policy. And any U.S. company today that earns less than 10% of its profits from European operations cannot rightly claim that the euro is the main culprit. 

 The far greater depressant on U.S. profits in coming quarters will come from the Fed's prior rate hikes of 1.75 percentage points from June 1999 to May of this year. We've studied all the episodes since 1955 that the Fed has raised rates by at least 1.5 percentage points over an 18-month period. There are 13 such episodes and the average increase in the fed-funds rates was 3.5 percentage points. S&P profits had been growing by an average of 19.4% annually in those periods; but in the year following, average growth decelerated sharply, to 3%. 

 When central banks create inflation and then try to "fight" it with rate hikes, they only boost inflation further and, in the process, induce firms to forgo more profitable projects for less risky, but less profitable, ones. 

 Fortunately, the most recent Fed rate hikes were only half of the average increases imposed since 1955. With a time lag, they'll still depress U.S. profit growth, but to a lesser extent, because of their lesser magnitude. Most analysts are unaware of the lengthy time lag that exists between the full imposition of Fed rate hikes and the subsequent, maximum slowdown in profits. So they try to blame other, nearer-term influences, such as a weak euro -- even though there's no direct evidence of the euro's weakness depressing U.S. profits. 

 The European Central Bank, by raising interest rates by 2.25 percentage points since last November, is inflicting the same harm on its local markets. The ECB's rate hikes are the real pain being felt by U.S. firms with large European exposure. And that's why the only negative effect of a weak European currency on U.S. profits shows up with a time lag of about a year. Even then, the influence is minor. Profits are hurt far more by the slowdown in unit sales that U.S. multinationals suffer in Europe, not by foreign currency translations (which are recorded immediately, not with a time lag). Intel's recent profit warning was prompted, for example, not by a material rise in the firm's foreign-currency losses, but by a sharp slowdown in its European chip sales. 

 Notice that the ECB's rate hikes in the past year (which have exceeded the Fed's by a half a percentage point) have begun to harm growth in Europe but have done nothing to bolster the euro. Contrary to popular opinion, which falsely attributes dollar strength to Fed rate hikes, that result should be expected. Interest-rate fluctuations are the effect, not the cause, of currency swings. Higher interest rates don't make a currency stronger; they reflect the rising inflation expectations that result when it turns weaker. 

 The euro is worth 28% fewer dollars today than when it was first issued in January 1999. Not even the currencies of the Czech Republic (down 27.7%), Poland (down 24.1%) or South Africa (down 20.1%) have fallen by that much over the same period. The currencies of Colombia, Hungary and Greece have fallen only slightly more than the euro. The ECB has done a disgraceful job so far -- and it's traveling in very dubious company. 

 Since 1999 the ECB has allowed and encouraged the euro to depreciate, declaring either that it's no problem, or else is "stimulative." Sometimes it blames markets for the euro's slide. But the euro is the ECB's only product. The ECB alone is responsible for its value. Markets have priced the euro correctly. The bank's intervention on September 22 to support the euro was a welcome change. But the ECB must continue to intervene and name an exchange rate below which it won't allow the euro to fall. ECB President Wim Duisenberg, however, says: "We do not have an exchange-rate target." 

 If investors hope to see robust growth in U.S. profits, they should welcome a stronger dollar, not worry about it. In depreciating the euro, the ECB hurts only Europe, not America. Policy makers are badly mistaken if they believe currency depreciation can "stimulate" the economy-or that rate hikes can bolster a currency. 

 --- 

 RICHARD M. SALSMAN is president and chief market strategist of InterMarket Forecasting Inc., an investment research and forecasting firm in Cambridge, Massachusetts. 

Document b000000020010803dwa9001u2




 Blood and Gore if bulls are wrong. 

 By Stephen Romei. 
800 words
9 October 2000
The Australian
AUSTLN
33
English
(c) 2000 Nationwide News Proprietary Ltd

 WALL STREET 

 AS previously noted in this column, a sick stock market in a US presidential election year is bubonic plague at the ballot box for the incumbent party candidate. 

 Indeed, the incumbent party candidate has never won an election in a year in which the Dow Jones industrial average fell by 10 per cent or more between January 1 and polling day. 

 On that basis, vice-president Al Gore would be well advised to stop wasting his campaign funds on advertising and divert as much cash as possible into the stock market. 

 It will take only another day like Friday to push the Dow 10 per cent into the red for the year to date, with the election just a month away. 

 Renewed interest rate concerns and bad news on the corporate earnings front combined to batter stocks on Friday. All three leading indices ended sharply lower. 

 Over at Silicon Alley, as the Nasdaq marketplace is known, the tech wreck worsened as former high-fliers such as Priceline.com, CMGI and Yahoo! short-circuited. 

 The S&P 500 last 27.29 points to 1408.99 while the Nasdaq Composite Index fell 111.09 points or 3.2 per cent to 3361.01 for a year-to-date loss of 17.4 per cent. 

 Investors with long memories will recall the Nasdaq gained 85 per cent last year. 

 With a chorus of companies warning their earnings results are unlikely to hit any high notes, the short-term outlook for stocks is unpromising, particularly in the tech sector. Continued - Page 34 From Page 33 Investors were also rattled by data showing US unemployment fell to a 30-year low of 3.9 per cent in September, making it unlikely the Federal Reserve will cut interest rates any time soon. 

 Heightening the climate of uncertainty was a rumour that broking firm Morgan Stanley Dean Witter had taken a big hit in the junk bond market. MSDW described the rumour as "greatly exaggerated" as its stock fell 8 per cent. 

 Earnings were front and centre, however. In the past few weeks, tech titans such as computer makers Apple and Dell, and chip factory Intel, have warned flagging consumer demand is crimping revenues. 

 The loser of last week was Priceline.com, which followed a still-warm profit warning with the news it was shutting down its WebHouse Club, a subsidiary which sold groceries and petrol. 

 The name-your-own-price internet retailer, which makes 85 per cent of its money selling cheap air tickets, is a good example of the dramatic shift in investment sentiment in the tech sector. 

 With Star Trek star William Shatner fronting its advertising, the company was boldly going to the new frontiers of online commerce last year, and investors could not get enough of it. 

 Sold to the public at $US16, Priceline.com hit $US162.38 in April 1999, valuing the company at $US23 billion. On Friday the stock was worth $US5.81 and the company $US969 million. 

 "This is just the beginning," predicted BusinessWeek journalist Michael Mandel, who has just penned an uplifting little book titled The Coming Internet Depression. 

 "Priceline closing WebHouse Club is typical of what's to come. The investment is drying up, which means new technology will not be developed, which in turn will feed the (negative) cycle." 

 Not everyone is so gloomy. The indefatigable Abby Joseph Cohen of Goldman Sachs is sticking to her targets for the stock market. She sees the S&P 500 at 1575 by year end. 

 "The fundamental backdrop of the US economy, and the equity market, remain quite favourable," she said. 

 Al Gore must be hoping she is right, as a close study of the electoral/markets cycle suggests a modest recovery - one which keeps the Dow out of that minus 10 per cent range - might not be enough. 

 When President George Bush snr faced Democratic challenger Bill Clinton on November 3, 1992, the Dow had gained just 2.8 per cent YTD. Voters burned Bush. 

 Four years later, Clinton went to the polls with the Dow up 18.1 per cent and was re-elected. This final year of his second term, however, may see him slide down the list of investor-friendly presidents. 

 A Morgan Stanley Dean Witter analysis indicates the stock market has risen 76 per cent in Clinton's second term, less than in his first and less than under his Republican predecessors, Bush and Ronald Reagan. 

 Clinton does not have to face the voters next month. Consider this: for Gore to go to the polls with the Dow back where it started the year, let alone in the black, it will have to rise 901 points in the next four weeks. 

Document austln0020010804dwa9002cm


 Buyers duck for cover. 

429 words
8 October 2000
Sunday Mail
SUNMAI
53
English
(c) 2000 Advertiser Newspapers Limited

 NEW YORK: Stocks slid sharply at week's end, pushing the hi-tech Nasdaq index to the lowest level since May as profit worries rattled technology shares. 

 An unexpected drop in unemployment across America also stoked fears of rising inflation. 

 The Nasdaq fell 111 points, or 3.2 per cent, to 3361, about 150 points above this year's lowest close. For the week, the Nasdaq lost 8.5 per cent. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 128 points to 10,596, its lowest close since August. Other indexes fell. 

 Investors grew defensive before a barrage of profit reports expected over the next three weeks. Investors are worried companies won't meet Wall Street forecasts. "It's hard to identify a really concrete catalyst here," said one portfolio manager. "People want to get out of the technology names and nobody's home to bid for those stocks." 

 Concerns about third-quarter profit reports - which begin in earnest this week - have dogged the market since early September. Warnings of poor earnings have provoked selloffs, with high-tech issues particularly vulnerable. Shares of Veeco tumbled after the semi-conductor company warned of disappointing earnings and a UBS Warburg analyst downgraded the stock from "buy" to "hold". A similar warning from software company Marimba sent its shares plunging. Leading the Dow's decline was J.P. Morgan. Home Depot also weighed down the blue-chip average after rival Lowe's said its same-store sales would be down for the third quarter. 

 The latest downturn came after the US Labor Department said the nation's unemployment rate fell to 3.9 per cent in September and total employment rose by 252,000 after two months of declines. Analysts had been expecting a higher jobless rate. 

 The Australian dollar closed up here at US53.52. After earlier touching a new all-time low in Sydney of 52.80 cents, the Aussie opened at 53.20 and traded in a range between 53.13 and 53.65. Activity was quiet, however, and most traders expect the Aussie to again dive below 53 cents this week, with the US dollar remaining strong. Crude oil futures rose as the market firmed, with prices settling up to around $US30.86 a barrel. 

 In London, share prices were slightly higher, the FTSE 100-share index closing up 9 at 6391. Markets in Europe closed lower. 

 In Tokyo, the Nikkei shed 105 points, ending the week's trading at 15,994. The dollar slipped to 108.82 yen and gold closed at $US270 an ounce. 

Document sunmai0020010817dwa8009f5




 TECH WEEK: WebHouse Tested Limits of Priceline Model -2 

826 words
7 October 2000
02:46
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Telecommunications and Cable 

 AT&T Corp.'s management proposed spinning off its struggling consumer long-distance business to shareholders in what would be a significant step toward breaking up the telecom giant, it was reported. AT&T's board appears to be leaning in favor of such a move. 

 Lucent Technologies Inc. signed a five-year contract valued at more than $1 billion to supply the infrastructure for SBC Communication's nationwide network expansion. 

 U.S. regulators are expanding their review of the America Online Inc. and Time Warner Inc. merger to include TV set-top boxes. Also, electronics retailers asked for government help in opening up the market for cable-television set-top boxes, an issue in the proposed merger. 

 Time Warner and EMI Group PLC scrapped plans for a $20 billion music joint venture following tough antitrust scrutiny in Europe. 

 Telefonica SA signed a preliminary pact to buy five Mexican wireless operators from Motorola Inc. for $2.62 billion, enabling the Spanish company to create a wireless network across Latin America. Also, Telefonica confirmed it is in talks with Motorola to acquire the U.S. company's wireless assets in six countries, including Brazil and Lithuania. European regulators should give final approval to Vivendi SA's proposed merger with Seagram Co. of Canada by mid-October, the French company's chairman said. 

 Deutsche Telekom AG's proposed $50 billion purchase of VoiceStream Wireless Corp. got a boost Thursday from unions and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. 

 Britain's Vodafone Group PLC is purchasing $2.5 billion in shares of China Mobile Telecommunications Ltd.'s Hong Kong unit. Vodafone beat its global rivals with its deal to take a 2% stake in China Mobile. The deal shows the growing importance of the world's No. 2 telecom market to the industry's biggest players. 

 British Telecom PLC said its finance director, Robert Brace, will leave and be succeeded by Philip Hampton, currently at U.K. energy company BG Group. 

 A judge agreed to expedite a lawsuit filed by a major Digex Inc. investor, who claims shareholder rights were trampled when Intermedia Communications Inc., which owns 55% of Digex, agreed to be bought by WorldCom Corp. 

 Initial Public Offerings 

 Fiber optics were hot with new-issues investors, pushing shares of Oplink Communications Inc. up 87% in their first day of trading. 

 Asia Global Crossing Ltd.'s IPO got off to a rocky start, with underwriters pricing the deal below expectations and scaling back the number of shares to be sold to the public. 

 TTP Communications PLC priced its offering of shares on the London Stock Exchange at $3.54 a share, valuing the company at $782.2 million. 

 Earnings 

 Apple Computer Inc.'s shares plunged 52% in one session following a profit warning. Some analysts concluded that Apple is continuing to lose ground in its educational segment. 

 ATI Technologies Inc. posted a loss in its fiscal fourth quarter, but the Canadian chip maker managed to top analysts' expectations. 

 Computer Associates International Inc. said it expects to report earnings for its fiscal first quarter ended Sept. 30 at the low end of the range of analysts' estimates and down 28% to 33% from a year earlier. 

 Dell Computer Corp. warned that quarterly revenue won't meet estimates due to weak sales in Europe and to the U.S. government. Its stock fell 9% in after-hours trading. Harmonic Inc., a communications-products maker, said slower sales from cable customers will mean a loss from operations in the third and fourth quarters. 

 Imation Corp. said it will report lower-than-expected third-quarter results and that it has engaged Goldman, Sachs & Co. to explore strategic alternatives. 

 Micron Technology Inc. rebounded from a year-earlier loss to post net income that beat analysts' estimates by 24 cents a share, helped by strong semiconductor sales. 

 Marimba Inc. said it will report an unexpected third-quarter loss and lower-than-anticipated sales. 

 Net2Phone Inc. reported its revenue more than doubled in its fourth quarter but the Internet-telephone-service provider's loss from operations soared. 

 Razorfish Inc. warned that third-quarter operating earnings for the Web-design and consulting firm will likely be much lower than analysts anticipated. 

 Veeco Instruments Inc. warned that quarterly earnings will be lower than anticipated and said its president and chief operating officer resigned. 

 Wanadoo SA posted a net loss of $58.1 million in the first half, and sales came in at the lower end of expectations, but the firm said revenue would accelerate in the second half. 

 Xerox Corp. said it expects to report a loss of 15 cents to 20 cents a share for the third quarter. The announcement surprised investors, who sent its shares down 18% in after-hours trading. 

 Write to Jason Fry at jason.fry@wsj.com and Kristin Hussey at kristin.hussey@wsj.com 

Document dj00000020010805dwa703ry5




 Cold wind blows from the US. 

1,010 words
7 October 2000
The Scotsman
SC
10
English
(c) 2000

 Selling pressure was again heaviest in technology, media and telecoms stocks, yesteryear favourites that are seen as frontline casualties in any slowdown 

 WALL Street sneezes and once more Europe catches a cold. 

 From Stockholm to Milan, markets suffered a feverish shiver on latest US labour market figures showing unemployment falling yet again. 

 Not for the first time, good economic news in the US goes down like week-old strudel in continental stock markets. The worry is that Alan Greenspan will have to raise US rates next month, running the risk of a hard landing. 

 More immediately for the euro, the prospect of higher US rates suggests yet more torrid times ahead. Only on Thursday the ECB raised rates over inflation worries. 

 Fears of troubled times ahead for company profits thus sent markets sharply lower. Selling pressure was again heaviest in technology, media and telecoms stocks, yesteryear favourites that are seen as frontline casualties in any slowdown. 

 In Frankfurt, shares slithered lower. By the close, the DAX index was down 2.5 per cent at 6,722.45. The Neuer Markt's Nemax 50 clattered down more than six per cent. 

 Among technology blue chips semiconductors maker Infineon was the hardest hit by the Nasdaq slide, losing 5.7 per cent. Siemens lost 2.6 per cent while Europe's biggest software company, SAP, was the biggest loss leader on the DAX board, tumbling by six per cent on growing investor apprehension over prospects. The shares continued to suffer from rumours that the company would issue a profit warning. 

 DAX heavyweight Deutsche Telekom fell 4.8 per cent after Standard & Poors cut the group's credit rating and warned that a further downgrade was possible. 

 "Everyone seems to be waiting for the autumn rally just like everyone's been waiting for the summer rally," said one trader. 

 The gloomy market sentiment spoiled the market debut of information technology firm Syzygy, which fell about 13 per cent below its IPO issue price. 

 And internet content firm musicmusicmusic had a decidedly off-key day, with the shares hitting all the wrong notes, sliding almost a third from their opening level. 

 Neuer Markt heavyweight T-Online sank by eight per cent and software company Intershop tumbled 21.5 per cent. One of the few bright spots was telecoms equipment maker Teles. The shares jumped almost ten per cent on news that it had reached a distributions and sales agreement with computer retailer Vobis. 

 In Paris, the CAC-40 index was forced below the 6,300 level. The French benchmark index ended down 1.21 per cent at 6,258.41, as losses in technology and telecom stocks outweighed gains in defensive and oil stocks. 

 Chip maker STMicroelecronics, France Telecom, Bouygues and computer firm Cap Gemini, all showed losses of more than four per cent. Consumer electronics firm Thomson Multimedia ended down 4.1 per cent from the level at which shares were offered to institutional investors in a placing on Thursday. And ISP Wanadoo dived 7.8 per cent in a baleful session after posting first half results well below investor expectations. 

 In Zurich blue chips closed lower, dragged down by overnight Wall Street weakness. For once there was no safe-haven buying of Swiss defensive stocks. 

 Financials were mostly lower amid concerns that inflation may be building, while drug stocks gained. 

 The Swiss Market Index closed down 0.6 per cent at 7,920.2. The all-share Swiss Performance Index slipped 28.6 to 5,549.83. 

 The Swiss New Market Index of technology growth stocks eased 7.3 to 1,750.5. 

 Sulzer remained in the spotlight after it confirmed market talk it may be interested in orthopaedics company Zimmer, put up for sale by Bristol Myers Squibb. 

 Sulzer plans to merge with 74 per cent unit Sulzer Medica and make medical devices a core business. Sulzer advanced 18 francs to 1,119. Medica rose eight to 490. Credit Suisse Group fell 3.2 per cent. It extended its offer for US investment bank DLJ until next week. 

 In Stockholm, a profits warning by American internet consultant Razorfish ripped through the IT sector, hitting Framfab down 10.8 per cent, Adcore, 10.9 per cent and Icon Medialab, off 13.3 per cent. The Stockholm bourse's General Index was 1.3 per cent off at 5422.02. 

 Shares in Amsterdam also closed lower. Dealers said technology stocks tracked the slide of shares in ASM Lithography, following a downgrade by Schroder Schroder Salomon Smith Barney, as well as responding to the US. 

 The AEX index of blue chips ended at 665.09, one per cent lower. On a weekly basis the AEX gained 0.5 per cent. 

 In Brussels, Belgium's Bel-20 blue chip index tumbled more than one per cent in the final minutes of trade after Wall Street sold off sharply. The Bel-20 closed down 1.1 per cent, or 34.00 points, at 3,060.32. 

 In Milan stock indices ended lower. An accounting probe into an Italian internet company added to fears over the sector profitability. 

 Banks were in focus, as Banca Intesa was reported to be on the verge of merging with its subsidiary BCI, and Banca di Roma announced that a major shareholder wanted to increase its stake. The all-share Mibtel index ended down 1.3 per cent at 31,307 while the blue chip Mib30 was off 1.4 per cent at 45,318. 

 But it was not all bleak across Europe. In Copenhagen Danish blue-chip shares closed at a record closing high for the 36th time this year, with the KFX index 38.4 per cent up on the start of the year. 

 The KFX top-20 index edged up a flat 0.2 per cent to 353.82. 

 So much for all those worries that the financial sky would fall in if the Danes did not vote to join the euro. Instead, the opposite has proved the case. Wonderful, wonderful Copenhagen. 

Document sc00000020010816dwa700hys


Newscast: Business news and stock report   

348 words
6 October 2000
CBS News: The Early Show
CBST
English
(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

JULIE CHEN, anchor:   

It's time for this morning's MarketWatch with Susan McGinnis. Good morning, Susan.   

SUSAN McGINNIS reporting:   

Well, good morning, Julie.   

Some investors will be happy to see this week come to an end. Today's market action could rest on employment data due out at 8:30. It should show a still-tight job market, with the unemployment rate seen holding steady at 4.1 percent, with 250,000 new jobs added to the nation's payrolls.   

Meanwhile, profit jitters continue to torture the markets. Another earnings warning, this one from  Dell, brought its shares to a two-year low, pulling down the rest of the computer market and leaving the NASDAQ with losses of 51 points.   

(Graphic on screen)   

CBS MarketWatch   

NASDAQ   

3,472.10   

down 51.00   

McGINNIS: A flood of profit warnings has hammered many tech leaders recently, including Apple and  Intel, among others. The index now down about 15 percent for the year.   

And the Dow couldn't shake the blues either. It lost about 60 points in the last session.   

(Graphic on screen)   

CBS MarketWatch   

Dow Jones Industrials   

10,724.92   

down 59.56   

McGINNIS: Well, watch America Online and  Time Warner today. Their union may now be closer now that  Time Warner and EMI have ended their proposed music merger.   

And  Microsoft and  Sprint PCS are in the spotlight. They have a deal to deliver Web content from MSN's Internet unit to wireless customers.   

For more, head to our Web site, cbs.marketwatch.com; AOL, keyword MarketWatch.   

CHEN: OK.   

McGINNIS: Have a good weekend.   

CHEN: You, too. Thank you, Susan.   

McGINNIS: Thanks.   

CHEN: And that is the news this morning. Now, here are Jane and Russ.   

RUSS MITCHELL (Co-host): Thanks, Julie.   

JANE CLAYSON (Co-host): All right, Julie and Susan. Thank you very much.   

Still ahead, a movie theater where crybabies are welcome.   

MITCHELL: And we'll tell you about some fitness myths--some things that surprised me, anyway. Stay with us. This is THE EARLY SHOW on CBS.   

(Announcements)   

Document CBST000020070818dwa6005h3




 Wall Street Stocks Fall Sharply. 

351 words
6 October 2000
Xinhua News Agency
XNEWS
English
(c) Copyright 2000 Xinhua News Agency

 NEW YORK, October 6 (Xinhua) - Wall Street stocks fell sharply Friday as investors were persistently concerned with disappointing corporate earnings and high inflation. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 128.38 points at 10,596.54, extending its loss of 60.30 points Thursday. 

 Broader stock indicators were also lower. The technology heavy Nasdaq composite index fell 111.09 at 3,361.01 and the Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 27.29 at 1,409.99. 

 The market opened higher but fell later as disappointing earnings warnings from the semiconductor Veeco and software company Marimba provoked sell-offs. Stocks have been hit heavily in recent weeks as a series of companies warned that their earnings in the third quarter and the rest of the year would not meet Wall Street expectations. 

 J.P. Morgan and Home Depot led the Dow's falling. Lowe was also down after the company said its sales in the third quarter would be lower. 

 In the tech sector, Cisco Systems and Intel fell. Intel rocked the market with a profit warning last month. 

 Stocks were also hit by a report of declining U.S. unemployment rate. The Labor Department reported today that the nation's unemployment rate fell to 3.9 percent in September, the lowest in 30 years. 

 Investors feared that the tight labor market would prompt the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates again. The Federal Reserve has raised rates six times in the past 16 months in an effort to cool off the U.S. economy and keep inflation from rising, and the move has hit the stock market heavily. 

 The NYSE index fell 11.75 at 656.12 and the American Stock Exchange index fell 9.22 at 920.71. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 11.56 at 491.02. 

 Declining issues outnumbered decliners by a 5-to-2 margin on the New York Stock Exchange, with 1,981 down, 883 up and 459 unchanged 

 NYSE volume declined to 1.14 billion shares from 1.17 billion in the previous session. 

Document xnews00020010818dwa600x80


Newscast: Stock report   

128 words
6 October 2000
Minnesota Public Radio: Marketplace Morning Report
MKMR
English
(c) Copyright 2000, Minnesota Public Radio. All Rights Reserved.   

CHERYL GLASER, anchor:   

Tech stocks continued to take a bruising on Wall Street. A profit warning from PC maker  Dell Computer did a number on technology shares yesterday, driving the NASDAQ down more than 1.4 percent for its fourth loss in the past five sessions. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 59 points, or a little more than 1/2 a percent, closing at 10,724, while the S&P 500 managed to inch up 1/10th of a percent. Investors will turn their attention to economics today when the Labor Department releases its employment report for September. Most economists predict that 232,000 non-farm jobs were created last month, leaving the unemployment rate steady at 4.1 percent.   

This is MARKETPLACE.   

Document MKMR000020070820dwa6002ei


 Business 
 Market Turmoil 

 Patricia Sabga, Charles Molineaux 
1,724 words
6 October 2000
22:00
CNNfn: Capital Ideas
CPID
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 CHARLES MOLINEAUX, CNNfn ANCHOR, THE N.E.W. SHOW:  Well, actually, several big stories drove the market south this week.  We got earnings warnings from Dell Computer (URL: http://www.dell.com/)  and Xerox (URL: http://www.xerox.com/) .  Priceline (URL: http://www.priceline.com/) says it`s shutting down its grocery and gas business.  So let`s try and unravel this wild week in the market with Cory Johnson, editor at large with "The Industry Standard." He joins us from Grand Rapids, Michigan. 

 Cory, what are you doing in Michigan?  Are you hiding out until this is over? 

 CORY JOHNSON, EDITOR AT LARGE, "THE INDUSTRY STANDARD":  Well, you know, you can`t be editor at large unless you`re truly at large.  So I`m at large this week. 

 MOLINEAUX:  What do you think about what we`ve been seeing going on in this market?  The question has already been asked.  Are we at a bottom now? 

 JOHNSON:  You know, I think it`s a little early to look for a bottom. The events of this week have truly shaken Wall Street.  I think that what we saw from the Federal Reserve was of great concern. You know, unemployment number today was also  -- because it was good news for unemployment, maybe it means that the negative effects of  the interest rate hikes of the last year have not yet taken effect. 

 And I think the market was really shaken by that. 

 PATRICIA SABGA, CNNfn ANCHOR, THE N.E.W. SHOW:  OK, we also had earnings warnings again from several high-profile names.  I`d like to get your reaction to some of those.  Xerox, warning not only will it not be turning a profit, but this time a loss.  What`s your reaction to that? 

 JOHNSON:  Well, you know, Xerox is a new economy victim.  It`s a lousy company.  They keep preannouncing.  They can`t figure out how to do business.  They`ve even announced that this week, that they have no idea what their business should be going forward.  They`re really struggling, and it`s very sad to see.  This was the stock you wanted to own in the `70s and the `80s, this was a great stock.  And now it`s  just a disaster. 

 MOLINEAUX:  What about that tech wonderful story, Dell, which is now warning?  Where does that fit in? 

 JOHNSON:  Well, now, this is really interesting here, because when Intel came out and said they had problems in Europe, we said, Hey, it`s an Intel problem.  It took the market about six hours to kind of dissect it and say, Yeah, yeah, yeah, really, it`s just an Intel problem, it`s not a European problem. 

 But, you know, Dan Niles came out and told us that, in fact, it was a European problem that we should pay attention to.  And sure enough, Dell comes around and says the exact same thing.  The high euro, high euro has slowed down sales in Europe. 

 Now, this is the most volatile time of the year always, right? October`s always a rough time for the market, particularly because of Europe.  Europe is always slow at the summer.  So any reason for Europeans not to spend money in the summer, they`re going to take it. They had it this summer in the euro, and obviously it`s crushed Dell and Intel and have a reciprocal effect throughout the market. 

 SABGA:  OK, I`d like to bring in Amanda Lang right now, if we can. Amanda, you have been following all of these earnings warnings for us. What can we glean from this week that can give us some insight into next week, when those earnings are really expected to hit hard? 

 AMANDA LANG, CNN FINANCIAL NEWS:  Well, we are getting some indications form analysts about what they like and don`t like.  It`s actually even a few weeks now that we`re starting to see investors and the Street behaving a little bit more sensibly about how they`re valuing things.  I say sensibly in terms of the historical way that we normally value things. 

 Merrill Lynch, actually, having a look at the sectors, we`re heading into the big earnings week, kicking off next week.  We`ve got tech names galore reporting next week.  And Merrill has looked at the various sectors that it covers, starting with Internet and e-commerce. 

 This one`s a nice one.  It says that (inaudible).  This is a long-term play, and it says that the worst thing about this sector is changes in sentiment could rattle these stock.  It`s not a good valuation so much as changes in sentiment. 

 But the key advice that Merrill is offering investors in the e-com Internet space is avoid names that need additional funding to get to profit.  That is a big changed from what we`ve seen before. It used to be there was a bottomless pit called the stock market, and you could get money and eventually you`d be profitable and we  would all be willing to wait for it.  No longer. 

 So Merrill is singling out in this group Yahoo!, AOL, and DoubleClick as the names that they like.  And as far as Internet e-commerce names go, those are blue chips. 

 MOLINEAUX:  Cory, how about Yahoo!, AOL, DoubleClick?  What do you think? 

 JOHNSON:  Well, you know, Blodget`s calling those today was about cash flow.  And he says these companies have so much cash flow because of their stock options programs, and Yahoo! in particular, I couldn`t really make sense of this note.  I mean, it`s really a stretch to look at things like Yahoo! as a value right here. 

 SABGA:  But in terms of that, Cory, let`s keep focusing in a little bit more on Yahoo!, because there is that looming question about online ad sales.  Do you think this is going to come out and it`s  going to show up in Yahoo! when we hear them report on Tuesday? 

 JOHNSON:  Well, this is exactly the time of year when we start to take little pieces of information and figure out what trends are happening, right?  We did that with Intel and Dell.  We see problems in Europe reported twice.  Now we got to believe it. 

 With Yahoo!, they were the first ones to say, Hey, advertising  could be tough in this quarter, and we`ve seen that play out through a lot of other companies.  So it that what we`re going to see in the near future is more problems with more companies.  And Razorfish is another example of a company that had some trouble in the sector.  And Razorfish is the last one to feel it. 

 MOLINEAUX:  Amanda, we got some more issues we`re covering here.  What about Enterprise Software? 

 LANG:  Merrill says that this is a group that looks pretty good, average revenue growth expected to be 119 percent year over year.  But there are 

 some caveats here.  Now, this is a pretty broad spectrum.  It runs the gamut from Computer Associates, IBM, to some smaller players. 

 And there are some problems at the high end.  Europe is an issue.  As Cory says, we now know that there may be slowing in IT spending in Europe, and that`s going to hit these guys.  And IBM, we`ve got mainframe concerns because Computer Associates warned this week.  It sells software for mainframes, that`s raised that specter again. 

 But they do like some names here, and they single out, actually, Ariba, the exchange players, the guys who are building these commerce -- e-commerce exchange.  They do like those guys, and essentially they`re  staying it`s still a group that`s growing the top line, and they like it for that reason. 

 SABGA:  OK, Amanda, before we go, real quickly, we`re also hearing from two big check  -- chip names next week.  We`re hearing from AMD and PMC-Sierra.  Merrill have anything to say on the chip sector? 

 LANG:  Well, they`re saying the chip sector is going to have a sloppy earnings quarter.  They`re saying there will be few outright misses but limited upside.  It`s going to be very interesting to see. Cory pointed out that, you know, whether or not the earnings next week can make up for the negative sentiment, AMD might have a tough time.  But if it can show that it`s stealing share from Intel, we may well get some movement out of Intel and into AMD. 

 As for PMC-Sierra, bear in mind that it`s in a very hot space.  It deals, of course, with the whole networking space.  And it may well be protected from the slowdown we`re seeing in PC growth rates. So, you know, we could well see two standouts there.  But again, the sentiment could still be negative next week. 

 MOLINEAUX:  OK, thanks, Amanda, and thanks, Cory.  Of course, Cory, we`ll be checking back in with you a little bit later on. 

 PATRICIA SABGA, CNNfn ANCHOR, THE N.E.W. SHOW: 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by  eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except  for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion  that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of  this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material.  This is not a  legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document cpid000020010804dwa6001jm




Nation/World
BUSINESS
NATION WORLD

Reuters, Bloomberg News, and Associated Press   
944 words
5 October 2000
Charlotte Observer (NC)
CLTO
ONE-THREE
5D
English
Copyright 2000 The Charlotte Observer. All rights reserved.   

Dell says weak euro hurt sales

Dell Computer Corp., the world's No. 2 personal computer maker, said Wednesday its third quarter sales were coming in about 3 percent below what it expected due to weak demand in Europe.

"There has been some macro-psychology at play with the weak euro," said Chairman and Chief Executive Michael Dell. "People (in Europe) have been significantly less inclined to make expenditures in terms of technology."

Dell was only the latest tech victim of weak demand in Europe. Chip giant Intel Corp. and stylish personal computer maker Apple Computer Inc. both said recently they saw slack sales in Europe.

"If the softness persists into the fourth quarter, Dell's full-year revenue could be $32 billion, an increase of about $7 billion, or 27 percent, from sales for fiscal 2000," the company said. The company has said it expected 30 percent sales growth for the year.

Reuters

*

Treasury to reissue $5 billion in inflation-indexed bonds

The U.S. Treasury next Wednesday will reissue $5 billion in inflation-indexed bonds at a shorter-than-usual maturity to sidestep an error in the government's primary gauge of changes in the cost of living.

The Treasury said in a statement that it decided on a reopening instead of new bonds "to preclude any computational" difficulties.

That also means the bonds have to mature in 281/2 years instead of the usual 30. A new bond would have required a special computer program.

This is the second time this bond, with a coupon of 37/8 percent and maturing in 2029, has been reopened. The last time was in October 1999. No new issues of inflation-indexed bonds, which have been on the market for three years, had been made in the interim.

The bonds set for auction next Wednesday will be dated April 15, 1999, settle Oct. 16 and mature April 15, 2029.

- Bloomberg News

*

Orders to factories bounce back after record plunge

Stronger demand for airplanes and electronics helped orders to American factories bounce back in August after a record plunge. Economists said the report is further evidence the economy is growing at a slower but still healthy pace.

Factory orders rose a surprising 2 percent in August to a seasonally adjusted $382.5 billion, the third increase in the past four months, the Commerce Department reported Wednesday.

August's increase came on top of a record 8.1 percent drop in factory orders in July, an even sharper drop than the government previously estimated.

The Federal Reserve has raised interest rates six times since June 1999 to slow the economy enough to prevent inflation, but not raise rates so high they push the country into a recession. Economists have described this as trying to engineer a soft landing for the high-flying economy.

- Associated Press

*

HSBC Holdings not in talks to merge with Merrill Lynch

HSBC Holdings Plc Chairman John Bond said Wednesday the huge financial services group was not in merger talks with U.S. investment bank Merrill Lynch & Co.

"We entered a joint venture with Merrill Lynch for a specific purpose and we have not held any talks beyond that venture and that remains the situation at present," Bond told reporters at a news conference in Kuala Lumpur.

Bond, in Malaysia to chair an HSBC board meeting today, was responding to a New York Post report that the two companies were in merger talks.

He also said HSBC currently had no plans for new acquisitions, especially in investment banking, and Asia's contribution to group profits could exceed an existing 45 to 50 percent in coming years.

- Reuters

*

AT&T focuses most promising options for restructuring

AT&T Corp. has winnowed its list of restructuring ideas to focus on the most promising options, such as spinning off its consumer long-distance telephone business, and forging deals with Nextel Communications Inc. and British Telecommunications Plc, a source familiar with the situation said Wednesday.

At AT&T's annual board retreat in September, the company sifted through several restructuring options that might help the nation's largest long-distance telephone and cable television company boost its flagging stock price and regain investor confidence.

Since the retreat, the company has worked to fine-tune proposals such as jettisoning the consumer business, but no final decision has been made, the source said. It was not immediately clear when an announcement on a restructuring would be made.

- Reuters

*

Oracle Corp. says outlook is 'strong' for sales, earnings

Oracle Corp., the No. 2 computer software maker, said Wednesday its outlook for sales and earnings in the current quarter and full year is "strong," helping shares recover from a 13 percent drop.

Tuesday, Chief Financial Officer Jeff Henley said at a meeting that sales growth in database software this quarter will be slower than the 32 percent reported in the period ended in August. He had made a similar forecast when the company reported fiscal first-quarter earnings last month.

Wednesday, Oracle said its comments weren't a sales or profit warning, and the company hasn't changed its outlook for the second quarter or the year.

"This is going to be a terrific year with both our database and application software revenue growing faster than the previous fiscal year," Henley said.

Oracle shares fell $1.38 to $68.13 Wednesday. Earlier they tumbled as low as $60.50 after a Robertson Stephens Inc. analyst said the stock isn't likely to rally much as sales growth slows. The stock fell 12 percent Tuesday.

- Bloomberg News

Document CLTO000020090630dwa50145d




 U.S. Stocks Weaker But Stable Despite Dell Warning 

595 words
5 October 2000
19:53
PR Newswire
PRN
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, PR Newswire) 

 NEW YORK, Oct. 5 /PRNewswire/ -- U.S. share prices were soft but steady Thursday afternoon in stoic reaction to the profit warning du jour, this time from Dell Computer, Market News International reported. 

 At 1:35 p.m. ET, the Nasdaq Composite was down 39.70 in heavy volume and the Dow Industrials were down 44.30. 

 No. 2 PC maker Dell Computer, down 2 7/16 at 25 3/4 [DELL], said late Wednesday it will miss third quarter revenue estimates due to poor sales in Europe and weak demand from small-business customers, and warned that its profits could begin to suffer if demand doesn't pick up by the fourth quarter. Dell is now trading at a two-year low. 

 "After warnings from Intel and Apple, among others, that weak European demand would hurt earnings, the Dell news has come as no surprise. Signs are pointing to the possibility that the market has now priced in the bad news for the third quarter," said Art Hogan, chief strategist at Jeffries & Co. 

 Hogan said further bad news may now provide a buying opportunity given the sharp discounting seen in the market, especially the technology sector. The Nasdaq has declined roughly 17 percent since the beginning of the month. 

 Dell joined a long line of U.S. multinationals which have complained about weakened European exports and the strong dollar. The European Central Bank raised rates Thursday morning in a slightly surprising move, which it said was aimed at curbing inflation risks from high oil prices and the weak euro though foreign exchange dealers suspect the move was also aimed at bolstering the weak euro. 

 Dealers and analysts welcomed the European Central Bank's move on Thursday to raise interest rates by 25 basis points. They said it should help strengthen the euro and make dollar-priced goods more competitive in Europe. Though they warned at the same time that the dampening effects on European consumer demand from higher rates will work as an offsetting factor. 

 Pitney Bowes, down 11 at 24 5/8 [PBI], issued a warning citing office product competition and weakness in foreign currencies. 

 No. 1 aluminum producer Alcoa, down 13/16 at 26 7/16 [AA], posted an as-expected rise in third quarter earnings after having lowered expectations last month. Chip maker Micron Technology, was down 4 13/16 at 42 1/8 [MU] despite breaking a long trend of disappointments and posting stronger than expected results. 

 Note that releases from Alcoa and Micron informally mark the beginning of the earnings season, though the bulk of reports won't be begin until next week. 

 U.S. chain stores reported their monthly results Thursday morning. JC Penney, down 1 1/16 at 10 1/8 [JCP], issued an earnings warning, while the GAP, down up 1 11/16 at 21 9/16 [GPS], said reported another decline in sales despite aggressive mark downs. 

 Motorola, down 1 3/16 at 28 9/16 [MOT], said it is in talks with Spain's Telefonica for the sale of stakes in certain mobile firms, including those in Brazil and Israel. Time Warner, up 4.20 at 90.20 [TWX], said it ended its merger agreement with U.K. music conglomerate EMI due to antitrust concerns in the EU.  SOURCE Market News International    /NOTE TO EDITORS: Market commentary from Market News International is  transmitted on a daily basis by PR Newswire./ 

Document prn0000020010812dwa503xvp




 US STOCKS WEAKER BUT STABLE DESPITE DELL WARNING. 

559 words
5 October 2000
18:43
Market News International
MARNEW
English
(c) 2000. Market News International, Inc.

 NEW YORK (MktNews) - U.S. share prices were soft but steady Thursday afternoon in stoic reaction to the profit warning du jour, this time from Dell Computer. 

 At 1:35 p.m. ET, the Nasdaq Composite was down 39.70 in heavy volume and the Dow Industrials were down 44.30. 

 No. 2 PC maker Dell Computer, down 2 7/16 at 25 3/4 [DELL], said late Wednesday it will miss third quarter revenue estimates due to poor sales in Europe and weak demand from small-business customers, and warned that its profits could begin to suffer if demand doesnt pick up by the fourth quarter. Dell is now trading at a two-year low. 

 "After warnings from Intel and Apple, among others, that weak European demand would hurt earnings, the Dell news has come as no surprise. Signs are pointing to the possibility that the market has now priced in the bad news for the third quarter," said Art Hogan, chief strategist at Jeffries & Co. 

 Hogan said further bad news may now provide a buying opportunity given the sharp discounting seen in the market, especially the technology sector. The Nasdaq has declined roughly 17 percent since the beginning of the month. 

 Dell joined a long line of U.S. multinationals which have complained about weakened European exports and the strong dollar. The European Central Bank raised rates Thursday morning in a slightly surprising move, which it said was aimed at curbing inflation risks from high oil prices and the weak euro though foreign exchange dealers suspect the move was also aimed at bolstering the weak euro. 

 Dealers and analysts welcomed the European Central Banks move on Thursday to raise interest rates by 25 basis points. They said it should help strengthen the euro and make dollar-priced goods more competitive in Europe. Though they warned at the same time that the dampening effects on European consumer demand from higher rates will work as an offsetting factor. 

 Pitney Bowes, down 11 at 24 5/8 [PBI], issued a warning citing office product competition and weakness in foreign currencies. 

 No. 1 aluminum producer Alcoa, down 13/16 at 26 7/16 [AA], posted an as-expected rise in third quarter earnings after having lowered expectations last month. Chip maker Micron Technology, was down 4 13/16 at 42 1/8 [MU] despite breaking a long trend of disappointments and posting stronger than expected results. 

 Note that releases from Alcoa and Micron informally mark the beginning of the earnings season, though the bulk of reports wont be begin until next week. 

 U.S. chain stores reported their monthly results Thursday morning. JC Penney, down 1 1/16 at 10 1/8 [JCP], issued an earnings warning, while the GAP, down up 1 11/16 at 21 9/16 [GPS], said reported another decline in sales despite aggressive mark downs. 

 Motorola, down 1 3/16 at 28 9/16 [MOT], said it is in talks with Spain's Telefonica for the sale of stakes in certain mobile firms, including those in Brazil and Israel. Time Warner, up 4.20 at 90.20 [TWX], said it ended its merger agreement with U.K. music conglomerate EMI due to antitrust concerns in the EU. 

 ***MARKET NEWS INTERNATIONAL NEW YORK 212 509 9270*** 

 [TOPICS: MNUEQ$]. 

Document marnew0020010814dwa500tmq

Search Summary

 Text((“profit*” same “warning*”) or ("disappoint*" same "result*") or ("decreas*" same "profit*") or ("compan*" same "downturn*") or ("unexpect*" same "loss*"))   Date10/01/2000 to 10/31/2000   SourceAll Sources   AuthorAll Authors   CompanyAll Companies   Subject Not Corporate/Industrial News   IndustryAll Industries   RegionUnited States   LanguageEnglish   Results Found128   Timestamp29 March 2018 10:16  




























•	  European Shares Slip On Technology, Media Losses    
•	 A bad day for Knight and other brokerages Goldman Sachs, Ameritrade also hit 
•	  Fortunetelling: How to Read Unruly Markets' Tea Leaves   
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	  NYSE Update 
•	  US SHARES STEADY IN SHAKY TRADE - CAPITULATION STILL AWAITED. 
•	  TALK FROM THE TRENCHES - WATCHING STKS, OIL THE DAY AFTER FOMC. 
•	  TOP STORIES FROM EUROPE, ASIA ON WEDNESDAY - FROM THE US TUES. 
•	  TOP STORIES FROM ASIA ON WEDNESDAY AND FROM THE US TUESDAY. 
•	  ON24 Audio Investor Alert: Analyst: Cyclical Conditions Led to CA's Warning 
•	  Around the World's Markets - New York. 
•	  Xerox Plans 'Bold' Action to Cut Costs, Change Business Model 
•	 Newscast: Slowing economy, declining euro and high oil prices add up to evaporating third-quarter profits   
•	  US TECH STOCKS SLIDE ON PROFIT WORRIES - FED LITTLE EFFECT. 
•	  TOP STORIES FROM THE U.S., EUROPE, ASIA ON TUESDAY. 
•	 Market Report - New York stocks end mixed on Apple's  profit warning .
•	  Concerns about global markets. 
•	  Bond Markets-Most US yields rise with oil, eyes on Fed. 
•	 Newscast: Business news and stock report   
•	 PaceSetters Database Beats Nasdaq With Less Volatility
•	  TOP STORIES FROM EUROPE, ASIA ON MONDAY - FROM THE US FRIDAY. 
•	  TOP STORIES FROM ASIA ON MONDAY AND FROM THE US FRIDAY. 
•	  TOP STORIES FROM ASIA ON MONDAY AND FROM THE US FRIDAY. 
•	  AARP Trying to Broaden Reach 
•	  Stocks open higher 
•	  Bay Street sells into third-quarter jitters. 
•	 WENDY WIESE WANTS OUT AT KTRS; ONE OF THE HILL'S FAVORITE SONS GETS AN AWARD  
•	 WENDY WIESE WANTS OUT AT KTRS; ONE OF THE HILL'S FAVORITE SONS GETS AN AWARD   

 

European Stock Markets
 European Shares Slip On Technology, Media Losses    

 By Alistair Macdonald    
Dow Jones Newswires
489 words
5 October 2000
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
12
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)    

 LONDON -- European stocks fell as technology, media and telecommunication stocks fell in line with a weak open on the Nasdaq Composite Index.    

 The Dow Jones Stoxx Index of shares in European companies fell 2.17 points to 380.39. The Dow Jones Euro Stoxx Index, which tracks companies in countries that joined the common currency, shed 1.1%, or 4.46 points, to 413.57.    

 The Dow Jones Euro Stoxx 50 Index fell 1%, or 51.5 points, to 4951 and the Dow Jones Stoxx 50 Index slipped 1%, or 51.5 points, to 4951.9.    

 In domestic markets, London's Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 Share Index fell on drops in technology, telecoms and oil stocks. Frankfurt's Xetra DAX Index slipped slightly as investors rotated out of tech shares into retail, chemicals and utility stocks. The Paris CAC 40 Index and Zurich's Swiss Market Index also fell slightly.    

 "The market is struggling to maintain upward momentum from cyclicals and techs, with profit warnings playing on minds," said Gareth Evans, an analyst at ING Barings.    

 Mr. Evans believes that the global nature of the technology sector is forcing investors to assume that its problems aren't exclusive to the U.S.    

 "We can't expect a rally (in techs) group until we see what is underlying these profit warnings," he added.    

 Many analysts, however, argue that the recent raft of profit warnings has been exclusive to the U.S.    

 Michael O'Sullivan, analyst at Commerzbank, said European tech stocks shouldn't slavishly follow Nasdaq's lead. European software names fell Wednesday on the back of Oracle's profit warning in the U.S. Tuesday.    

 Mr. O'Sullivan believes that bullish profit forecasts from U.K. stock Misys Tuesday and other European techs were the more relevant comparison.    

 Many defensive stocks gained as high-growth shares fell. Bank shares continued their good run, with the U.S. Federal Reserve's decision Tuesday to keep rates on hold further soothing the rate outlook and helping them on their way.    

 European chemical stocks tracked their U.S. peers higher, coming off the lows that were sponsored by Du Pont's recent profit warning.    

 In London, the index's heaviest weighted stock, Vodafone Group fell slightly on the back of a broker downgrade and concerns over high subscriber acquisition costs. The company had earlier announced that it would be pumping $2.5 billion (2.86 billion euros) into China Mobile.    

 In Frankfurt, SAP tumbled 8.2% on the back of Oracle's woes on Wall Street. BMW rose 2.9% on bullish profit prodictions.    

 France Telecom, which slipped 3.8%, added downward pressure to the Paris index.    

 In Zurich, chemical companies Ciba and Clarient gained 2.3% and 1.4% respectively, but financials fell on the back of higher-than-expected Swiss September consumer prices.    

Document wsje000020010814dwa500ft3
 

 

MONEY
A bad day for Knight and other brokerages Goldman Sachs, Ameritrade also hit 

Noelle Knox 
404 words
5 October 2000
USA Today
USAT
FINAL
05B
English
© 2000 USA Today.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.   All Rights Reserved.  

NEW YORK -- Investors unloaded shares of brokerage firms Wednesday after an ominous profit warning from one of the largest trading firms. 

Knight Trading, which brings buyers and sellers together as a so- called market maker, said third-quarter earnings would come in about 50% below Wall Street's expectations. The company blamed "a difficult market environment in the late summer" and higher spending on foreign expansion. 

While trading normally slacks off between June and September, Knight Trading's revelation came on the heels of similar disappointments last month from National Discount Broker and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. 

Shares of Knight Trading, which had been down as much as 24%, closed off 11%, or $3.69, at $28.50. The ripple effect brought down shares throughout the industry on Wednesday, especially Ameritrade, which fell 8%, or $1.25, to $15.31, and Goldman Sachs, which dipped 4%, or $4.44, to $109.44. 

In addition to the seasonal slowdown, Knight Trading was especially hurt by the evaporation of Nasdaq and Over-the-Counter stock trading. Volume on the Nasdaq fell 1% from the second quarter, while volume in the Over-the-Counter market skidded 17%. 

"Individual investors remained hesitant to jump back into the market," analyst Greg Smith at Chase H&Q wrote in a third-quarter industry report Monday. 

Until now, the brokerage stocks have largely escaped the recent sell-offs. Investors instead have been betting on mergers and acquisitions among the brokerage companies, and expecting the online brokers to follow suit. 

"In our opinion, Knight remains an attractive takeover target for a large institution," Smith wrote Wednesday after Knight's warning, adding: "We do not believe the current-quarter hiccup will change the strategic outlook for any potential suitors of Knight." 

The company reportedly has received overtures from Salomon Smith Barney and Merrill Lynch. 

Knight Trading, which will release its results Oct. 18, now expects to earn 13 cents to 16 cents a share for the third quarter, instead of the 31 cents expected by analysts, according to First Call. Knight earned 19 cents a share a year ago. 

TEXT WITHIN GRAPHIC BEGINS HERE 

Knight Trading down 

Wednesday's drop only deepened this year's pain for Knight Trading shareholders. 

12/17$46 10/4$28.50  

GRAPHIC, B/W,  Gary Visgaitis, USA TODAY, Source: CSI 

Document usat000020010813dwa500kqw
 

 

 Fortunetelling: How to Read Unruly Markets' Tea Leaves   

2,786 words
5 October 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
C1
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

 Markets of some sort have been in existence for thousands of years. There have always been places where buyers and sellers of goods and services have met, exchanged goods and traded information.   

 That's all a market has ever been, a place to exchange things and ideas. And that's what stock markets are today.   

 As such, markets serve two distinct but interdependent functions. One, of course, is to facilitate commerce. The other is to gossip about everything else. Often, the gossip is well informed and well reasoned. Investors, traders and merchants frequently act on that gossip, which ultimately affects the prices of goods and services sold -- often before the gossip, or news, is widely disseminated. In a market, information is the coin of the realm, and so it has always been.   

 For the past 10 years, Americans have grown preoccupied with market activity, watching the daily ups and downs much as they watch sporting events. The emergence of free, real-time market information has helped democratize the playing field, giving individual investors information advantages once the sole purview of professional investors.   

 By using the markets as a forecasting device -- that is, by listening to the message of the markets -- individual investors can take the investment process to a new level of understanding. The deeper the knowledge of the markets, the more aware investors are of the markets' forecasting ability, the less likely they will be blindsided by unforeseen events.   

 To be sure, the message of the markets isn't always clear or easy to understand, even to the pros. At any given time, the market is sending out lots of different messages. Deciphering messages can be challenging even when investors are listening to the right ones.   

 Still, one can find innumerable examples in which market prices turned abruptly, well before the reasons for the turn were clearly evident to many market participants. And those abrupt turns in the financial markets often contain valuable information about a coming change in the surrounding economic or political environment.   

 Only a handful of individuals recall how the stock market fell in the minutes after John F. Kennedy was shot, but well before the news of the shooting ran on the news wires. How a decision by Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker in the early 1980s to slash interest rates helped end the stock market's long period of malaise and set the stage for the bull market. How oil prices (a current concern as well) skyrocketed well before Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait in 1990. And how the troubles of the Thai currency, the baht, in 1997, were an early warning sign of problems in the world financial system that would pummel markets.   

 These examples illustrate how the markets communicate with the outside world, sending messages from which an astute observer can profit. Since markets reflect the collective consciousness of investors, it is that very moment when the collective consciousness starts to shift, just before perceptions change, sometimes without obvious reason or warning, that investors who notice and act on the change stand to profit most handsomely.   

 Indeed, professional investors are like market detectives; they follow clues wherever they lead. It is that mind-set that individual investors need to adopt as well. Imagine, for example, if the markets could give you advanced warning of troubled times. Would you spend less and save more if the markets were foretelling that a recession would arrive in nine to 12 months? Would you refinance your mortgage if interest-sensitive stocks told you that interest rates were about to go up?   

 Markets can send advance signals, messages if you will, about these and many other things. Sometimes the messages are small, indicating that the fortunes of an individual company are about to turn. Sometimes the messages are larger, suggesting that a shift in the economic environment is in the offing.   

 Either way, Wall Street professionals have known for years the value of information. As Gordon Gekko said in Oliver Stone's movie "Wall Street," "If you're not inside, you're outside." Getting inside requires that investors listen to the message of the markets. Here are some examples of how the markets have sent messages in recent times:   

 ---   

 After a series of punishing blows to the U.S. economy in the 1970s and early 1980s, no one on Wall Street or on Main Street was ready to hear the siren song of the stock market in the summer of 1982. Economists frequently predicted yet another dismal year for the economy as the nation suffered through a deep recession.   

 We all remember its chief characteristics. Surging inflation, rising interest rates and high unemployment had become the norm between 1980 and 1982. At the start of the decade, banks would raise the prime lending rate to 20.5%, as inflation peaked around 13%. Few Americans could believe that a Renaissance was about to arrive. But the markets would signal what was to come, even as the prophets of doom proclaimed the dark days would last forever.   

 The stock market "broke out" in August 1982, staging impressive rallies in the late summer as volume at the New York Stock Exchange exploded almost inexplicably.   

 For two years, the Dow Jones Industrial Average had been in a vicious bear market, torn about by the economic conditions. Indeed, after crossing 1000 briefly in intraday trading for the first time in 1966 but not ever closing above 1000 until 1972, the Dow industrials had fallen back and gone into a long slump. By August 1982, the blue chip index would rest at 777, the lowest level it had seen in several years and nearly 25% below the 1000 mark first touched when Lyndon Johnson was president.   

 Even as stocks plunged back to their lows, something very important was taking place. Bond-market interest rates began to decline, even as most investors were still betting that inflation and unemployment would continue rising. The market was sending an important message that the economic outlook was improving. Few people heard the call.   

 The bond market's shift had its roots in a disaster brewing in that hot and difficult summer that few saw coming. But it was a disaster that would provide the impetus for an economic rebound in the U.S.   

 Latin American nations, to which many of the biggest U.S. banks had lent billions of dollars, were on the ropes economically and threatened to default on their debt payments. There was a danger that the biggest and once-proudest American financial institutions were about to crumble under the weight of Latin American debt.   

 But Fed Chairman Paul Volcker rang the bell that signaled the start of a new bull market. To bolster big U.S. banks in the event of a Mexican debt default, the Fed rapidly expanded the nation's money supply, while slashing interest rates dramatically.   

 Most people had believed the debt crisis meant even more desperate times. But Wall Street veterans have an expression that mirrors the notion that it's always darkest before the dawn. The veterans say, "Bailouts are bullish."   

 Because of the Fed's move, bond-market interest rates began a decline that would take them from the high levels of the early 1980s to a low of nearly 6% by 1986. That huge drop in interest rates and explosion in the money supply would lead to an amazing economic recovery. When coupled with the Reagan-era tax cuts that also came in that time frame, the markets rallied in anticipation of a new boom. Indeed, the Dow would vault to 2722 in August 1987 from 777 in August 1982.   

 A bell often is metaphorically rung in the markets before major economic events occur. In 1982, the bell sounded loud and clear.   

 ---   

 Sometimes the messages are both politically and economically important, as was the case in the late spring of 1990. On June 20, 1990, oil prices hit a low of $15.30 a barrel. In fact, for much of the year, oil prices had been trending lower. But as summer began, prices began to rise . . . rather inexplicably.   

 Traders were on the lookout for the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, the big cartel, to rein in production, and OPEC did manage a production cut that summer that helped to drive prices well off their lows. However, oil prices just kept on rising, well beyond the level that would have been justified by OPEC's move.   

 So there had to be another reason that prices kept rising, a reason suggesting that the supply of crude oil might soon be disrupted. In late July, oil markets suddenly were rife with rumors that Iraqi troops were mobilizing somewhere near the Kuwaiti border. At the time, few observers of Middle East politics or oil-market economics had publicly discussed even the remote possibility of another military excursion involving Iraq. Saddam Hussein's country was still reeling from the recently ended eight-year war with Iran.   

 But war rumors lingered nonetheless. They became alarmingly specific by the end of July. On Aug. 2, Iraq invaded Kuwait. Oil prices exploded. Saddam Hussein not only controlled Iraq's oil-producing capacity but also Kuwait's. The prospects of reduced oil supplies from in and around the Persian Gulf sent oil markets into a panic. By October, prices spiked to $40.40 a barrel, the highest level ever.   

 An analysis of oil-price trends leading up to the war show just how prescient the market really was. Oil prices bottomed out and began rising six weeks before the start of hostilities -- even though few experts were anticipating a war. Then oil prices peaked and began declining fully two months before the Gulf War began -- even though many political pundits and military analysts were predicting a prolonged war with a formidable Iraqi foe, which likely would have resulted in skyrocketing oil prices, even higher interest rates and slumping stocks.   

 Instead, when the actual fighting began on Jan. 17, 1991, a strange thing happened. Oil prices plunged. The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained more than 100 points. The U.S. dollar jumped in value. A safe haven investment, gold, also declined in a surprising manner.   

 The pundits were wrong. The markets were right. The smart money knew the war would be over in short order and that oil supplies would not be permanently disrupted -- and that this would be good news for the markets.   

 Many contemporaneous sources show that U.S. battle plans for a full-scale assault to liberate Kuwait were finalized as early as October. Maybe not coincidentally, that's when oil prices peaked. In all of its twists and turns, the oil markets accurately foretold the direction the war would take. If any market shows how markets send messages, the oil market in the early 1990s clearly does.   

 ---   

 The story of Asia in the 1980s and early 1990s was nothing short of remarkable. The newly industrialized countries of the Pacific Rim were the pride of the region. So fast was the growth in Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore and South Korea that they were nicknamed "Asian tigers." Because of this success, the region attracted droves of Western investors, who poured $100 billion into non-Japan Asia in 1996.   

 But just a year later, in 1997, nearly all of Asia was in recession. By early 1998, some parts of Asia were in a depression. The economic contraction came quickly and without warning. Or at least to the untrained eye. Few Asians saw this catastrophe coming, and even fewer Americans did. Yet, it had a profound impact on financial markets in the U.S. as well as Asia. While most Asians suffered greatly because of this calamity, many Americans prospered economically because of it.   

 As always, there were warning signs. And, as always, very few people paid attention to the warning signs flashing from Manhattan to Malaysia.   

 The signal of impending disaster came from a rather unlikely locale -- Thailand. On July 2, 1997, the Thai government devalued its currency, the baht, in what was almost literally a non-event outside the currency trading rooms of the world's financial centers. In the $1 trillion worth of currency transactions handled daily, the baht is relatively insignificant.   

 Nonetheless, the devaluation would signal the onset of a two-year recession in Asia and would come to be known as "the baht heard round the world."   

 The plunge in the value of the baht set off a chain reaction of currency devaluations throughout the region. Much of the foreign investment money that had poured into Asia to finance its rapid growth was quickly pulled out. The reasons for the run on Asian currencies are complicated and numerous, but the rapid erosion in confidence exacerbated economic problems that were bubbling to the surface in the summer of 1997.   

 "Asian contagion," as it was called, wreaked havoc on markets that had no exposure to Asian economies. The Dow industrials fell sharply as global investors fretted about a possible world-wide collapse. On Oct. 27, 1997, the Dow fell 554 points, at the time its biggest point decline ever.   

 In Asia, once-strong economies collapsed under a burden of plunging currencies and rising foreign debts. Tens of billions of dollars were rushed to Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia and Korea as the West bailed out the newly troubled countries.   

 Ironically, the U.S. benefited from the crisis. As economic activity fell sharply in the Far East, oil prices collapsed and U.S. interest rates plunged, with the U.S. economy enjoying the equivalent of a multibillion-dollar tax cut. The Asian crisis, oddly enough, extended the economic recovery here, just when everyone worried it was about to run out of steam.   

 The fact that the message about a global economic event came from such an obscure corner proves, once again, that markets do send messages. The real key is knowing where to look.   

 ---   

 So how about today? What are the markets telling us now?   

 The frenetic action in the stock market has somewhat muddled the message of the markets. Volatility in stocks and bonds reached historic proportions in the first few months of the year. The major averages moved several hundred points in a single day on a routine basis. High-technology and biotechnology stocks had bigger single-day moves than any market professional can recall witnessing.   

 But it has become obvious in recent months that the financial markets are getting a hint that not just the U.S. economy but the global economy may be slowing noticeably.   

 Bond-market interest rates have fallen, almost inexplicably given the current apparent strength of the U.S. economy, in particular. The Treasury market yield curve was inverted for months, meaning that short-term interest rates were higher than long-term interest rates. (That's the opposite of what's normal, because long-term debt generally carries higher yields to compensate investors for the higher risks of lending their money for the long haul.) This inversion has been shown by the New York Federal Reserve to be the single-most accurate predictor of a slowdown or recession of any available financial market indicator. As a result, interest-sensitive stocks have rallied. Economically sensitive stocks and key commodity prices like gold and industrial metals have declined, suggesting that demand in the global manufacturing arena may be slowing.   

 The bottom line: The message of the market earlier this year is in stark contrast the euphoric moments at the start of 2000, when the Internet boom and biotech mania lifted the Nasdaq Composite Index to new heights almost daily. The message then was of an only-good-things-can-happen environment in which new technology and great strides in genomics would change the way we work and live, and send stocks ever higher.   

 But with the stock market performing the way it has lately -- the Dow industrials going up and the Nasdaq dropping on one day, and then the reverse happening the next day -- the message has become particularly hard to read, even for the most experienced investors.   

 Perhaps the best conclusion is that, while the technological changes transforming the economy and powering stocks are likely still to come, a pause is likely before we can be euphoric again.   

 ---   

 An excerpt from the book, "The Message of the Markets," by Ron Insana, anchor of CNBC-TV. Copyright 2000 by Ron Insana. Published by HarperBusiness, an imprint of HarperCollins Publishers Inc.   

 ---   

 Journal Link: Join Ron Insana, CNBC-TV anchor, for a live discussion today at 1 p.m. EDT about the market's trends and how they foretell the future. The discussion is free and available to nonsubscribers at WSJ.com/voices.   

Document j000000020010807dwa500qbf
 

Newscast: Business news and stock report   

430 words
4 October 2000
CBS News: Morning News
CBSM
English
(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

JULIE CHEN, anchor:   

On Wall Street, tech stocks slumped for the eighth time in nine days. The blue chips managed to hold their own with the Dow up 19 points at 10,719.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Dow Jones Industrials   

10,719.74 up 19.61   

Volume: 1,107,440,000   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

CHEN: The NASDAQ slid to 3,455, down 113 points.   

(Graphic on screen)   

NASDAQ   

3,455.83 down 113.07   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

CHEN: In Tokyo overnight, the Nikkei gained about 1 1/2 percent.   

(Graphic on screen)   

Tokyo Nikkei Average   

16,149.08 up 236.99   

Change: up 1.49%   

cbs.marketwatch.com   

CHEN: On the CBS MarketWatch, more on that NASDAQ slide. Alexis Christoforous has details.   

ALEXIS CHRISTOFOROUS reporting:   

The NASDAQ wiped out an early rally even though the Fed did the expected and left interest rates unchanged. Nervous investors became even more jittery after the Fed said it still believes inflation is a threat. Alan Greenspan and company said higher energy prices and a tight labor market could spark inflation. That just left the door open for future rate hikes in the months ahead. Now that, coupled with mounting profit worries, scared away the buyers, and once again it was the tech stocks that were punished the hardest. Shares of  Oracle sank more than 12 percent on the day,  Sun Microsystems adding to the carnage, down 4.6 percent, and  Microsoft came along for the ride, down 4.3 percent.   

All of that leaves the NASDAQ down 15 percent for the year, so investors ran for cover in the so-called cyclical stocks. DuPont,  Alcoa and Internatoinal Paper all moved higher.   

(Graphic on screen)   

WINNERS INTERNATIONAL DUPONT (DD) ALCOA (AA) PAPER (IP)   

2.75 2.44 1.62 to to to 44.38 26.94 29.62   

CHRISTOFOROUS: Stocks initially rallied after Abby Joseph Cohen of  Goldman Sachs said she's still bullish on techs, but once again profit worries spoiled the party, and they could continue to be a sore spot. After the bell, Computer Associates became the latest company to sound a profit warning. Some market watchers still predict a year-end rally, but they say this time around, investors will be very selective. At the NASDAQ market site, I'm Alexis Christoforous, CBS MarketWatch.   

CHEN: For the latest on the markets, click on cbs.marketwatch.com.   

Straight ahead on the MORNING NEWS, your Wednesday morning weather, and in sports, the aggressive Oakland A's make it another long night for Yankee manager Joe Torre.   

(Announcements)   

Document CBSM000020070818dwa4002ov
 

 Business 
 NYSE Update 

 Tony Guida, Bill Tucker, Greg Clarkin 
943 words
4 October 2000
17:00
CNNfn: Market Coverage - Afternoon
MKTC
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 TONY GUIDA, CNNfn ANCHOR, MARKET COVERAGE:   Over on the big board, among other things, oil stocks sliding today.  We want to take a closer look at that sector with Greg Clarkin at the New York  Stock Exchange on the floor there and maybe a little bit later on Greg you can tell us, Bill and I were wondering about transports, having a real nice day. But we`ll start with the oil stocks I guess. 

 GREG CLARKIN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT:  Yeah, they are Tony.  Transports right now, up about 60 points or so.  You got utilities down about a dozen points.  Overall though, we`re seeing a real positive afternoon at least at this point.  An hour to go in the trading session.  The Dow up, was up 100 points a minute ago.  Right now up 98 points, 10,081.  If you want to look for strength, you can take a look at some of those big winners including shares of International Paper (URL: http://www.internationalpaper.com/) those basic materials companies doing nicely today.  International Paper shares are trading at 29 and change when they closed yesterday. Today they are posting a $2 gain. 

 So it got them up around 31 5/8.  Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing (URL: http://www.mmm.com/) , 3M doing very nicely as well.   Home Depot (URL: http://www.homedepot.com/) is a big winner.  Hewlett-Packard (URL: http//www.hp.com) is a big winner. 

 On the downside we are seeing a lot of the weakness concentrated at least in the Dow in the financial stocks.  J.P. Morgan (URL: http://www.jpmorgan.com/) , Citigroup (URL: http://www.citi.com/) , American Express (URL: http://www.americanexpress.com/) all trading lower.  And you know, just looking at the big board actives, we are seeing a lot of stocks that have come out.  I`m not surprised that we are losing ground on  profit warnings.  We`re seeing Xerox (URL: http://www.xerox.com/) shares continuing to trade lower on their profitwarning from yesterday.   One of their numerous profit warnings in the last year and half or so. That stock losing  another 3/8, trading now below $11 a share. 

 Shares of Guidant  (URL: http://www.guidant.com/) , the medical devices maker, that company out with a profit warning, saying its revenue really will not be up to expectations. They still may meet its profit goals, but revenue of Guidant will be lower.  That stock is off 12 bucks.  Among the most actives, trading at, just under $57 a share. And then Computer Associates (URL: http://www.cai.com) lower on its earning warning. 

 Let`s take a look at some of those oil stocks that we`ve been telling you about.  API, American Petroleum Institute, out saying that stockpiles, inventories, slightly higher than expected.  Now that takes a little bit of the edge off, at the moment at least, the fears for the winter months in terms of oil reserves, in terms of energy, the energy outlook.  And the oil stocks today losing ground.  You can see crude oil is trading lower by 35 cents a share and New York trading at 3172.  And take a look at some - one of the stocks related to the oil business are doing.  BP Amoco (URL: http://www.bpamoco.com/) , Exxon (URL: http://www.exxon.mobil.com/) , Chevron (URL: http://www.chevron.com/) , Texaco (URL: http://www.texaco.com/) , all losing ground, as are a lot of the stocks over in the oil services, the oil drillers, and those folks are losing ground as well.  We`re seeing shares of Schlumberger (URL: http://www.slb.com/) losing better than 2. Smith International (URL: http://www.smith-intl.com/) down better than 4 right now and then better than $2 loses for Halliburton (URL: http://www.halliburton.com/) , Diamond Offshore (URL: http://www.diamondoffshore.com/) , and Transocean Sedco Forex (URL: http://www.deepwater.com/) , so, logically we follow anything related to the oil business losing ground today.  And again, those API figures just for the moment at least, taking a little bit of the edge off the fears in the oil business. Right now Dow Industrials up 107 points, rapidly approaching the session highs of about 110, trading at 10,827. Guys back to you in the studio. 

 BILL TUCKER, CNNfn ANCHOR, MARKET COVERAGE:  All right Greg.  We`ll look for plains, trains, and automobiles in the next cut in. 

 CLARKING:  Sure. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc.  ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.)  No license is granted to  the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one  copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or   interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as  they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document mktc000020010808dwa4003fk
 

 

 US SHARES STEADY IN SHAKY TRADE - CAPITULATION STILL AWAITED. 

652 words
4 October 2000
19:33
Market News International
MARNEW
English
(c) 2000. Market News International, Inc.

 NEW YORK (MktNews) - The rate of earnings warnings tumbling fourth raises the suspicion that either corporate America is falling apart or, in contrast, that there will be no disappointments left for the earnings season itself. 

 In another volatile session Wednesday, the Nasdaq Composite, down as much as 70 points, was up 12.42 at 3,468.25 at 2:20 p.m. ET. But the gains did little to calm worries. 

 "We haven't seen the capitulation that's needed to put shares in strong hands," said Sean Martin, head trader at A. Gary Shilling. 

 Martin, like many others, is awaiting a crash of sorts, a heavy volume trading day that leaves blood on the streets. Martin warned that unusually weak economic data, which has been scarce, might be the trigger for the collapse. 

 But should economic data strengthen in the coming weeks, dealers and analysts suspect sentiment could jell that the hard landing now feared may never happen. Among other indexes, the Dow Industrials were up 76.21 at 10,795.95 while the Wilshire 5000 was up 5.64 at 13,370.59. 

 After tumbling nearly 12 percent on Tuesday, Oracle was down a further 5 percent, off 3 57/64 at 65 39/64 [ORCL]. The company warned that it may not achieve 40 percent profit growth in its fiscal year, reviving memories of Intel's shocking warning of Sept. 22. 

 In a rare move, Computer Associates was up 3 5/16 at 27 [CA] despite warning late Tuesday it will not meet profit estimates. The software company tumbled sharply in July after issuing a similar warning. 

 Other negative pre-announcements included SciQuest. The business-to-business company was down 31/32 at 4 11/32 [SQST] after warning its losses will be wider than expected. 

 Big merger news in the banking sector had little impact. Firstar Corp was down 2 11/16 at 19 9/16 [FSR] after agreeing to acquire US Bancorp for $21 billion in stock, creating the nation's 8th largest bank. U.S. Bancorp was up 15/16 at 24 1/8 [USB]. 

 AT&T Corp, up 11/16 at 29 13/16 [T], is reportedly considering spinning off its consumer long-distance unit after failing to find a buyer for the business. 

 Goldman Sachs, down 4 3/16 at 109 11/16 [GS], said it has no plan to merge, a reversal of previously reported plans. The broker said it is currently digesting its $6.5 billion acquisition of equity firm Spear, Leeds & Kellogg. Goldman Sachs has reportedly been in merger talks with Charles Schwab, which was up 1/16 at 33 5/8 [SCH]. 

 Rival Bear Stearns was down 1 at 62 [BSC] after a judge delayed a ruling whether to dismiss a $164 million verdict against it for mishandling a Canadian client's foreign exchange transactions. 

 Knight Trading Group was down 5 13/16 at 26 3/8 [NITE] after the equity market-maker warned it will miss estimates due largely to volatility in the Nasdaq. 

 Guidant was down 11 15/16 [GDT] after warning late Tuesday it will miss revenue targets due as customers await the rollout of a new artery stent approved on Tuesday. The company also said the weak euro will hurt sales. 

 Railroad companies were little changed after the U.S. Surface Transportation Board proposed new rules to limit further railroad mergers, which have in the past led to significant traffic delays and confusion. Burlington Northern Santa Fe, up 15/16 at 22 7/16 [BNI], scraped a merger with Canadian National Railway earlier this year due to objections from regulators. 

 Carrier Access was down 6 at 14 3/8 [CACS] after the telecommunications equipment provider said it too will miss estimates due to weak sales. 

 ***MARKET NEWS INTERNATIONAL NEW YORK 212 509 9270*** [TOPICS: MNUEQ$]. 

Document marnew0020010814dwa400t91
 

 

 TALK FROM THE TRENCHES - WATCHING STKS, OIL THE DAY AFTER FOMC. 

1,280 words
4 October 2000
17:58
Market News International
MARNEW
English
(c) 2000. Market News International, Inc.

 - Sister Mkt Supply Includes Fannie Mae and GECC Issues 

 By Joe Plocek & Rob Ramos 

 NEW YORK (MktNews) - U.S. credit markets remain range-bound the day after the FOMC meeting, though sources say Treasuries had a bid earlier related to weaker stock prices and insurance company buying in the long end of the curve. However, some steepeners have been flushed out of the market and the outlook remains cloudy, hinging on the Fed, other central banks' actions, and equity and oil prices, sources say. 

 Prior to the FOMC meeting, "25 out of 25 primary dealers said no rate hike, and that is what we got - that's fun!," said a salesperson. If there were no surprises from the FOMC, recall that the rhetoric was similar to statements Fed officials were making all along, and that Chairman Greenspan has said in the past that surprises give him a pain in the pit of the stomach. 

 A source said "well it may give Greenspan a pain, but it gives us something to trade!" Perhaps that will be the case ahead, since economists cannot agree on the Fed's next likely move. One economist sees a move to a neutral bias to precede an ease, another sees a resumption of tightening in 2001, and yet another says the Fed could raise rates as much as 100 BP next year. 

 A strategist called the FOMC statement "slightly more hawkish" while an economist said it shows the Fed is on hold for the foreseeable future. Go figure! 

 One analyst said he was not surprised that energy prices were made more prominent. But he wonders how the policy makers will gauge inflation expectations ahead since the FOMC said that expectations are key to preventing higher oil prices from getting into the general price structure. 

 Following the FOMC's statement that energy "poses a risk of raising inflation expectations," Bank of Japan Research Director Murayama went a step further Wednesday saying oil was a risk factor and could require monetary tightening to head off inflation expectations. How original! He also said the economic recovery would continue as long as personal consumption didn't worsen further. 

 In any event, the markets finally got some confirmation that the Fed has recognized a slowing of the demand side of the economy. Economists were quick to point out changes in the Oct FOMC statement vs August, which include recognition that demand "has moderated" vs the August statement "is moderating" and the June statement's demand "may be moderating." 

 But sources wonder if the slowdown of aggregate demand is from higher energy prices cutting into consumption, as new age economists would argue. At this point, could higher energy prices actually do the Fed's job of slowing the economy to its non-inflationary sustainable rate of growth? One source says, based on the FOMC's accompanying statement, "the Fed certainly hasn't bought into that argument yet and if Japan can afford to raise rates because of oil, the Fed certainly will do it at the risk of throwing the US economy into a recession". 

 Interestingly enough, according to the Confederation of British Industry in their latest distributive trades survey, the slowing of retail sales volume in Sept was partly due to the impact of the fuel crisis during the month. Sales volume came in at 14% vs 41% in September last year and was the lowest balance for seventeen months. 

 And in France, consumer confidence fell much faster than expected in September from July's record high level. Concerns increased in all components, but were particularly marked in households' outlook for future standards of living, where the diffusion index turned negative for the first time since March 1999. An INSEE expert told MNI that rising oil prices had a "very negative" impact on household confidence but it could be a one-off effect. 

 Nov crude oil futures are down roughly 50 cents Wednesday at $31.50 per barrel after yesterday's weekly API report showed a 1.2% boost in crude oil inventories while IEA said crude oil supply is sufficient to meet demand. 

 But is supply. The situation in the Middle-East continues to remain a background issue but Kuwaiti locals point out reports in the local press that several hundred bedouins have gathered on the Iraq/Kuwait border in protest at having been expelled from Kuwait after the Iraqi invasion in 1992. 

 Speculation is circulating locally that this is being coordinated by the Iraqi government to coincide with the US elections but local opinion says there is nothing too sinister in these latest actions. 

 Players also note that strategically, this is not a good time to invade Kuwait as the US is in the midst of a regular troop rotation and consequently there are double the normal amount of US troops in the region. 

 Central bank actions too are about as clear as their intentions. The ECB reported today that its FX reserves were affected by intervention, Bank of Japan swap and National Central Bank moves. It said reserves rose E19.9bln to E278.6bln in the week ended September 29, which was when the interventions settled. Quarterly revaluation boosted FX reserves by E23bln. 

 Canada reported only a US$127m gain in official reserves in the Sept. 30 week, confirming Canada's share of FX intervention was small. The U.S. reported interesting moves in reserve assets for the Sept. 29 week, the period that included the Euro intervention (settled on Sept. 26). Total reserve assets grew $1.622b to $66.297b, and it appears most of the money was immediately invested in overseas securities (+$1.1b). Currency deposits at central banks were shuffled-+$1.1b in euros but - $0.9b in Yen. 

 Of course, the ECB and the BOE meetings conclude tomorrow, and anything is possible. Portfolio managers say they are not overly concerned about the outcomes, however, as the markets are fairly priced for more rate hikes. 

 Back on domestic shores, players remain on guard for asset allocation trades out of U.S. equities into Treasuries, sources say. Stock woes are being tied to another profit warning from Computer Associates Tuesday night. The Nasdaq is mildly lower after falling 3% Tuesday. Could this mark the third down quarter in a row for tech stocks? Horrors! They doubled in value in 1999, and a retracement should not surprise. 

 Given the recent tightening of agency spreads, a European portfolio manager says he is not surprised by the profit-taking sales seen during London trading. He says, "a sale at this time is not a bad idea. Agencies have had a good run and may be near their peak". 

 Still, Fannie Mae announced details of next Wednesday's sale of $4.0 to $5.0 billion two-year notes and $4.0 billion new seven-years. This seven-year will be a "museum piece", one source says, because FNMA will not be issuing seven-year notes in its 2001 offering calendar. GECC, Wachovia, and Pemex corporate deals also should price this week. 

 Unconfirmed Street chatter also has the long awaited jumbo France Telecom deal postponed indefinitely, sources say. There had been speculation this deal would follow KPN into the market and it could have been $10.0B total, denominated in $US and euros. No underwriter was ever announced in the first whiff of a possible problem. - Isobel Kennedy, Alyce Andres, and Dennis Pettit contributed. 

 NOTE: Talk From the Trenches is a daily compendium of chatter from Treasury trading rooms offered as a gauge of the mood in the financial markets. It is not hard, verified news. 

Document marnew0020010814dwa400t8v
 

 

 TOP STORIES FROM EUROPE, ASIA ON WEDNESDAY - FROM THE US TUES. 

974 words
4 October 2000
13:15
Market News International
MARNEW
English
(c) 2000. Market News International, Inc.

 * [REPORT: BOJ OFFL: OIL CLD PROMPT TIGHTENING] Bank of Japan Research Director Murayama said oil was a risk factor and could require monetary tightening to head off inflation expectations. He also said the economic recovery would continue as long as personal consumpition didn't worsen further. 

 * [REPORT: ITALY CIAMPI: EURO RATE A WORRY] President Carlo Azeglio Ciampi told the European Parliament "the current concerns about the exchange rate of the euro are justified" but the euro-zone should take advantage of the weakness because it enhances competitiveness, innovation and helps with economic restructuring. 

 * [EMU PPI RISE MODERATE IN AUGUST] Industrial producer prices - excluding construction - in the euro-zone rose in August 0.8% on the month and 5.6% on the year, Eurostat reported. The rise was at the low end of August. Meanwhile, retail sales in July rose a real, workday and seasonally adjusted 0.5% on the month and 2.5% on the year on continued strong sales of household goods, Eurostat said. 

 * [EMU SERVICE SECTOR ACTIVITY FLAT] Euro-zone service sector activity was strong again in September, with the Reuters activity index at 60.2, slightly under 60.3 in August. But price pressures continued to rise, with the input and prices charged indexes at record levels. 

 * [UK SERVICE SECTOR GROWTH HIT BY FUEL CRISIS] Service sector growth slowed in September to the slowest rate since March last year under the impact of the fuel crisis, while cost and price pressures intensified, according to the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply. The CIPS Report on Services business activity index dropped to 55.0 in September from 58.3 in August (revised from 58.4). 

 * [UK CBI: FUEL CRISIS AFFECTS SALES FIGURES] Growth in retail sales volumes slowed in September from the previous month, partly reflecting the impact of the recent fuel crisis, the Confederation of British Industry said. The latest CBI distributive trades survey showed the sales volume balance at 14% compared with 18% in August and 41% in September last year. This was the lowest balance for seventeen months. However, the CBI said that the weakness of sales in September was due partly to the impact of the fuel crisis during the month. 

 * [UK BOE BOUGHT E85 MLN TO BOLSTER EURO] The Bank of England bought E85 million against sterling on Sept.22 when major G-7 central banks jointly intervened in the foreign exchange markets to bolster the single currency, the UK Treasury said. (Story ran 

 * [UK HALIFAX: SURPRISE RISE IN SEP HOUSE PRICES] UK house prices in September posted the biggest monthly rise since January, but this is unlikely to mark a return to "rapid" house price inflation, the Halifax reported. The Halifax house price index rose a seasonally adjusted 1.6% on the month in September and was up 9.2% on the year. The annual rate accelerated from 7.4% in August but remained well below January's peak of 16.0%. 

 * [SURPRISE FALL IN FRENCH CONSUMER CONFIDENCE] Consumer confidence index fell back much faster than expected in September from July's record high level, according to the monthly survey of the national statistics institute Insee. All components deteriorated, bringing a 10-point decline in the overall diffusion index from +2 in July (revised down from +3). This is the lowest level since -8 in July 1999. Concerns increased in all components, but were particularly marked in households' outlook for future standards of living, where the diffusion index fell 17 points from July to -12, turning negative for the first time since March 1999. An INSEE expert told Market News that the fall rising oil prices had a "very negative" impact on household confidence but it could be a one-off effect. 

 * [ITALY JULY INDUSTRY ORDERS DISAPPOINT] Industrial orders were well below market expectations in July at up a modest 1.0% in unadjusted year-on-year terms, breaking a long string of double-digit orders rises, the national statistics institute ISTAT reported. July's limited gain was heavily weighted in favor of foreign orders, which rose 4.0%, while domestic orders fell -0.8%, the first fall since January. 

 * [EU PAPER URGES OIL MKT INTERVENTION] A European Commission document calls for the intervention in the oil market as a solution to combat price volatility, but held back from urging a release of European strategic oil reserves. 

 [FROM THE US ON TUESDAY:] 

 * [U.S. TECHNOLOGY STOCKS EXTENDED THEIR LOSSES] amid worries that valuations are still over-estimating future profit growth. The Nasdaq Composite fell 114.20, or 3.2%, to 3,454.70 in extremely heavy volume of nearly 2 billion shares. The index has fallen 11.3% since Intel issued its earnings warning on Sept. 21. Among other averages, the Dow Industrials rose 19.61 to 10,719.74, while the Wilshire 5000 fell 159.74 or 1.18%, to 13,362.65. 

 * [THE HOUSE GRANTED ITSELF ANOTHER WEEK] in which to complete work on fiscal year 2001 appropriations, postponing the start of the new fiscal year by another week to Oct. 14. On a vote of 415 to 1, the lower chamber cleared a stopgap spending bill, which keeps all government operations open and funded at current FY2000 levels. The Senate is expected to take up an identical measure later this week. 

 * [ARGENTINA'S GOVERNMENT HAS SHOWN A PRAISEWORTHY COMMITMENT] to its economic reform program, despite the frustration of a disappointing recovery, but further increases in growth will require more hard choices and continued fiscal discipline, the International Monetary Fund said. Argentina has cut its growth estimates for this year to 2% from 3.5% early in the year, but the IMF projects growth this year of only 1.7%. The government is projecting 3.7% growth next year. 

 [TOPICS: MT $ $ $$]. 

Document marnew0020010814dwa400t3o
 

 

 TOP STORIES FROM ASIA ON WEDNESDAY AND FROM THE US TUESDAY. 

421 words
4 October 2000
06:42
Market News International
MARNEW
English
(c) 2000. Market News International, Inc.

 * [DOLLAR-YEN IS ON HOLD IN A TIGHT RANGE] between Y108.58 and Y108.90. Flows are limited and options volatility linger at low levels. Adding to the subdued tone is the lack any fresh market-driving news or new data releases. Supporting it is some buying interest for overseas portfolio investments for the new fiscal half-year. Euro-dollar eased after reaching the day high of $0.8780 on short-covering as the Tokyo morning session ended. Fears of ECB intervention is limiting the downside while trading has a cautious tone ahead of the ECB Governing Council meeting Thursday. The morning low was $0.8753. 

 * [AUSTRALIA-DOLLAR IS DRIFTING AROUND $0.5365] after recovering from a sudden plunge from $0.5380 to $0.5338. It held a weak tone early over the announcement that the RBA left monetary policy unchanged at Tuesday's meeting. Unconfirmed rumours of RBA intervention is behind the recovery from the day lows. Dealers said it is currently in unchartered territory and difficult to pick out key chart points. 

 [FROM THE US ON TUESDAY:] 

 * [U.S. TECHNOLOGY STOCKS EXTENDED THEIR LOSSES] amid worries that valuations are still over-estimating future profit growth. The Nasdaq Composite fell 114.20, or 3.2%, to 3,454.70 in extremely heavy volume of nearly 2 billion shares. The index has fallen 11.3% since Intel issued its earnings warning on Sept. 21. Among other averages, the Dow Industrials rose 19.61 to 10,719.74, while the Wilshire 5000 fell 159.74 or 1.18%, to 13,362.65. 

 * [THE HOUSE GRANTED ITSELF ANOTHER WEEK] in which to complete work on fiscal year 2001 appropriations, postponing the start of the new fiscal year by another week to Oct. 14. On a vote of 415 to 1, the lower chamber cleared a stopgap spending bill, which keeps all government operations open and funded at current FY2000 levels. The Senate is expected to take up an identical measure later this week. 

 * [ARGENTINA'S GOVERNMENT HAS SHOWN A PRAISEWORTHY COMMITMENT] to its economic reform program, despite the frustration of a disappointing recovery, but further increases in growth will require more hard choices and continued fiscal discipline, the International Monetary Fund said. Argentina has cut its growth estimates for this year to 2% from 3.5% early in the year, but the IMF projects growth this year of only 1.7%. The government is projecting 3.7% growth next year. 

 [TOPICS: MT $ $ $$]. 

Document marnew0020010814dwa400t0k
 

 

 ON24 Audio Investor Alert: Analyst: Cyclical Conditions Led to CA's Warning 

82 words
4 October 2000
21:40
Business Wire
BWR
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Business Wire) 

 --(BUSINESS WIRE)-- 

 Shares of Computer Associates make a come back after its profit warning. Analyst Paul Rodriguez at Unterberg Towbin gives his perspective on Computer Associates. 

 For the complete streaming audio story users should access http://www.on24.com/index.html?id=39825&type=av&ref=bizwire

 Ticker: (NYSE:CA) Company: Computer Associates International, Inc. 

Document bwr0000020010804dwa404dpd
 

 

 Around the World's Markets - New York. 

88 words
3 October 2000
The Independent - London
IND
16
English
(c) 2000 Independent Newspapers (UK) Limited . All rights reserved. This material may not be published, distributed or exploited in any way.

 TECH STOCKS tumbled as angst over declining profit growth plagued the sector in the aftermath of Apple's warning of lower-than-expected profits late last week. 

 But blue-chips rose, bolstered by computer giant IBM and financial services heavyweight JP Morgan. TheNasdaq fell 103.92 points, or 2.83 per cent, to 3,568.90, its lowest close since 31 May. The Dow Jones industrial average ended up 49.21 points, or 0.46 per cent, at 10,700.13. 

Document ind0000020010811dwa301bi3
 

 

 Xerox Plans 'Bold' Action to Cut Costs, Change Business Model 

526 words
3 October 2000
14:57
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- In the wake of Xerox Corp.'s third-quarter warning, officials said they plan to take "bold" action, including the disposal of certain assets, cost cuttting and changing the beleaguered company's business model. 

 Chairman and Chief Executive Paul Allaire said in a conference call Tuesday that the moves should save Xerox "billions" of dollars. "No stone is being left unturned" in Xerox's efforts to reduces its costs, said President and Chief Operating Officer Anne Mulcahy. 

 Mr. Allaire declined to specify which businesses or products might be sold in the overhaul, saying more details will be made available when Xerox reports third-quarter results on Oct. 24. 

 Investors, meanwhile, pummeled Xerox's (XRX) stock, sending the shares down $3.94, or 26%, to $11.38 after heavy trading by the 4 p.m. EDT Tuesday close in the pit of the New York Stock Exchange. 

 After the close of regular trading Monday, Xerox said it expected to report a third-quarter loss of 15 cents to 20 cents a share. Analysts had expected earnings of 12 cents a share, according to a First Call/Thomson Financial survey. 

 In 4 p.m. NYSE composite trading on Monday, Xerox fell 25 cents to $15.31. In after-hours trading, shares were changing hands at $12.54, down $2.77, or 18%, according to Instinet. In October of last year, Xerox shares traded as high as $77.50. 

 This is the fourth profit warning in five quarters for the Stamford, Conn., copier giant. Xerox blamed the third-quarter shortfall on weaker-than-anticipated revenue in North America and Europe, particularly in September, as well as increased competitive pressure across all businesses and the euro's weakness. 

 Xerox plans to announce on Oct. 24 whether the most recent warning will affect its dividend payment. The company, which just paid a 20-cent quarterly dividend, has long prided itself on its record of dividend payments, unbroken for 211 consecutive quarters. 

 Xerox's stock has been battered this past year by a number of problems, as well as the ouster of then-CEO Rick Thoman in May. Mr. Allaire, who took the helm after Mr. Thoman's restructuring plan failed to turn the company's stock around, Tuesday said that one of Xerox's past problems was its inability to produce a competitive product. 

 "We have good technology and that technology can be effectively (used) to meet customer requirements to do more, in more of an efficient manner than in the past," Mr. Allaire said. 

 Much of Xerox's third-quarter shortfall was caused by lower sales of high-end products, which was blamed in part on a less-experienced sales force. However, Ms. Mulcahy said the company doesn't plan to change the size of its sales force or alter its current sales territories. Instead, the company will focus on filling its sales team with "skilled people who are far more productive" than at present, she said. 

 (Compiled from Dow Jones Newswires and other sources) 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dwa301jyy
 

Newscast: Slowing economy, declining euro and high oil prices add up to evaporating third-quarter profits   

376 words
3 October 2000
Minnesota Public Radio: Marketplace
MKPL
English
(c) Copyright 2000, Minnesota Public Radio. All Rights Reserved.   

DAVID BRANCACCIO, anchor:   

On the one hand, we have the widely followed stock market guru Abby Joseph Cohen at  Goldman Sachs saying it is too soon to throw dirt on NASDAQ-listed technology stocks. She's predicting they will soon bounce back from the drops of September. The NASDAQ Composite, however, was not listening, with the index falling 113 points today, 3.2 percent. And technology companies did not have to be listed on the NASDAQ to be suffering. Xerox shares fell a striking 26 1/2 percent today after warning late Monday that an expected profit in the third quarter is instead a loss. Evaporating profits is becoming a familiar tune, as MARKETPLACE's Michelle Brier reports.   

MICHELLE BRIER reporting:   

Xerox did it Monday night. Priceline did it last week.  Kodak,  Intel, Apple, they all did it--that is, warn investors that their third-quarter earnings will be off. In same cases, way off.   

Mr. HUGH JOHNSON (Chief Investment Strategist, First Albany): A lot went wrong in the third quarter.   

BRIER: Hugh Johnson is chief investment strategist at First Albany. He says so many companies were forced to confess their shortfalls because of a convergence of financial events.   

Mr. JOHNSON: The economy slowed, the euro declined, which hurt a lot of companies that were doing business in Europe. And, of course, oil prices rose, which raised raw material prices for a lot of companies. And it all added up to lower sales and lower earnings.   

BRIER: And hardly any industry was immune.   

Mr. JOHNSON: You have companies in the chemical industry like DuPont telling us, Colgate,  McDonald's--companies in very conservative, safe industries telling us. We had the--obviously, the technology companies telling us-- Apple Computer,  Intel. So just about every industry told us that things were not going well, and that's what added up to such a really miserable September.   

BRIER: The good news is that September and the preannouncements of profit warnings are over. But the bad news is that historically October has its own troubles. Think the October stock market crashes of 1987 and 1929. In New York, I'm Michelle Brier for MARKETPLACE.   

Document MKPL000020070820dwa3002kl
 

 

 US TECH STOCKS SLIDE ON PROFIT WORRIES - FED LITTLE EFFECT. 

352 words
3 October 2000
21:45
Market News International
MARNEW
English
(c) 2000. Market News International, Inc.

 NEW YORK (MktNews) - U.S. technology stocks extended their series of losses Tuesday amid worries that valuations are still over-estimating future profit growth. 

 The Nasdaq Composite fell 114.20, or 3.2 percent, to 3,454.70 in extremely heavy volume of nearly 2 billion shares. The index has fallen 11.3 percent since Intel issued its earnings warning on Sept. 21. 

 Dealers and analysts downplayed the significance of the Federal Reserve's policy statement issued midafternoon. Otherwise benign, the statement did cite the possible inflationary threat of higher oil prices, triggering what appeared to be a knee-jerk selloff in the Nasdaq. 

 "It's not inflation, it's worries over profits that are hurting the Nasdaq," argued Dean Witter trader Michael Lyons, who described the Fed's policy statement as "a non-event" and said there's little risk of higher interest rates ahead. Lyons said trading in technologies has become "a little scary," as bounces, like the brief one in the early part of Tuesday's session, are met by aggressive selling. "When is the slow haemorrhaging going to end?" Lyons asked. 

 Xerox was the latest technology company to issue an earnings warning, saying late Monday it will post a loss instead of a profit due to weak sales in North America and Europe. The company fell 4 1/16, or 26 percent, to 11. 

 Despite the protracted selloff, dealers say there's still greater risk to the downside until confidence returns that consumer demand and corporate profits will not weaken as much as feared. The earnings season begins the weak after next and should provide final answers to the third quarter as well as the outlook for the quarters ahead. 

 Among other averages, the Dow Industrials rose 19.61 to 10,719.74, while the Wilshire 5000 fell 159.74, or 1.18 percent, to 13,362.65. 

 Semiconductor equipment leader Applied Materials posted heavy losses, down 5 1/16 at 51 5/8 following a brokerage downgrade. 

 ***MARKET NEWS INTERNATIONAL NEW YORK 212 509 9270*** 

 [TOPICS: MNUEQ$]. 

Document marnew0020010814dwa300wjj
 

 

 TOP STORIES FROM THE U.S., EUROPE, ASIA ON TUESDAY. 

1,027 words
3 October 2000
23:33
Market News International
MARNEW
English
(c) 2000. Market News International, Inc.

 * [U.S. Treasury prices ended lower Tuesday], extending early losses after the Federal Reserve kept interest rates unchanged at the conclusion of its policy meeting. Even so, the policymakers kept their cautionary view that the risks are weighted toward inflation. The 30-year bond was down 11/32 to a yield of 5.95% while the 10-year note was 12/32 lower at 5.87% and the two-year note fell 2/32 to a yield of 6.00% at 3:00 p.m. EDT. 

 * [U.S. technology stocks extended their losses] amid worries that valuations are still over-estimating future profit growth. The Nasdaq Composite fell 114.20, or 3.2%, to 3,454.70 in extremely heavy volume of nearly 2 billion shares. The index has fallen 11.3% since Intel issued its earnings warning on Sept. 21. Among other averages, the Dow Industrials rose 19.61 to 10,719.74, while the Wilshire 5000 fell 159.74 or 1.18%, to 13,362.65. 

 *    [The dollar was little changed] but with a modestly firmer tone 

 vs. the euro and yen after the Federal Reserve, as expected, kept 

 interest rates steady and retained its tightening bias. 

 *    [The House granted itself another week] in which to complete work 

 on fiscal year 2001 appropriations, postponing the start of the new fiscal year by another week to Oct. 14. On a vote of 415 to 1, the lower chamber cleared a stopgap spending bill, which keeps all government operations open and funded at current FY2000 levels. The Senate is expected to take up an identical measure later this week. 

 * [Argentina's government has shown a praiseworthy commitment] to its economic reform program, despite the frustration of a disappointing recovery, but further increases in growth will require more hard choices and continued fiscal discipline, the International Monetary Fund said. Argentina has cut its growth estimates for this year to 2% from 3.5% early in the year, but the IMF projects growth this year of only 1.7%. The government is projecting 3.7% growth next year. 

 * [THE BANK OF JAPAN'S TANKAN BUSINESS SURVEY] showed companies expect fixed capital investments to grow 6.0% in fiscal year 2000 while the large manufacturers' sentiment index was at +10, both better results than what the market expected prior to the report. Manufacturers saw a 13.8% expansion in capex for this fiscal year, better than the 12.5% or so expected by the market prior to the report. Non-manufacturers saw a 1.4% expansion in capital expenditure this year. The market had expected a large manufacturers' headline sentiment figure around +7. The second-quarter tankan showed a +3 result. 

 * [JAPANESE FINANCE MINISTER KIICHI MIYAZAWA] said he is heartened by the result of the third-quarter tankan, which shows the recovery continues to be "proceeding smoothly." "Overall, (the tankan result) seems to be fine. Small to mid-sized firms, particularly in the non-manufacturing sector, are lagging and that probably is due to sluggish consumption," he told reporters. 

 * [JAPAN WILL PROPOSE AT AN EMERGENCY MEETING] of the International Energy Agency that IEA members release oil reserves concertedly in the event of a suspension of oil supplies, International Trade and Industry Minister Takeo Hiranuma was quoting as saying by Kyodo News. 

 * [EU COMMISSION: TIME NOT RIGHT FOR OIL RELEASE] The EU Commission will release a document Wednesday outlining its stance on the release of EU strategic oil reserves, although the Commission spokesman for energy and transport said the time does not appear right for such a move. "The conditions have not yet been met to drill ont he strategic reserves," he said. He said the Commission is unlikely to come to a decision before a meeting of EU heads of state on Oct.13-14. (Story ran 10:53 GMT) 

 *    [BRENT OIL PRICE OVER $31] December Brent crude was 22 cents higher 

 at $31.25 per barrel in early afternoon trade in Europe. It closed up 

 $1.24 at $31.08 on Monday amid new tensions between Iraq and Kuwait. 

 *    [EU PRODI CRITICISES EU ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT] European 

 Commission President Romano Prodi criticised the economic policy management of the EMU bloc in a speech to the EU Parliament. He said it projects an image of Europe as "indecisive and muddled." He proposed that the independent European Central Bank should be complemented by the Commission acting with a mandate from the council of ministers as "the voice of the Union's economic policy." (Story ran 10:26 GMT) 

 * [EMU AUGUST JOBLESS RATE AT 8 YEAR LOW] The seasonally adjusted unemployment rate in the euro-zone was unchanged in August at 9.0%, although the rate was revised down to 9.0% July and 9.1% in June. The result was the lowest in more than 8 years (June 1992 saw 9.0%) and was in line with a Market News median forecast. 

 * [UK CIPS: CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY PICKS UP] The construction industry continued to growth in September, with the pace of growth at a three-month high, while input prices rose sharply, according to a survey by the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply and NTC Research. the seasonally adjusted index for overall activity rose to 59.9 in September from 58.0. (Story ran 09:02 GMT) 

 * [SURPRISE RISE IN ITALY BUSINESS CONFIDENCE] Business confidence rose unexpectedly in August from July, recouping two monthly falls, according to the latest survey from the ISAE research institute. The seasonally adjusted index of overall business confidence stood at 108 versus 106 in July, 108 in June and 111 in May. The result was well above market expectations and follows disappointing data last month, including weaker-than-expected Q2 GDP and an unexpected drop in industrial output for July. (Story repeated 11:12 GMT) 

 * [FRENCH RETAIL SALES OUTLOOK DIMS] The sales outlook of French retailers weakened slightly in September, although it remained "at a very high level," the national statistics institute said. Its diffusion index for expected sales eased 3 points in September to +4. (Story ran 10:33 GMT) 

 [TOPICS: MT $ $ $$]. 

Document marnew0020010814dwa300ssg
 

 

 Market Report - New York stocks end mixed on Apple's  profit warning . 

256 words
3 October 2000
Channelnewsasia
CNEWAS
English
(c) 2000 MediaCorp News Pte Ltd. All Rights Reserved

 US technology stocks slid on Monday, showing the effects of getting bitten by Apple Computer Inc.'s profit warning late last week. 

 The technology-dominated Nasdaq Composite Index fell 103.92 points, or 2.83 percent, to 3,568.90. 

 The blue-chip Dow Jones Industrial Average finished the session up 49.21 points, or 0.46 percent, at 10,700.13. 

 "There are earnings concerns out there," said a dealer. 

 He added the market was not going to get much upward momentum until there are "decent earnings reports coming in the tech sector." 

 In New York, crude oil futures for November delivery settled above $32 a barrel, driven by renewed Mideast tensions amid continuing concerns over the thin supply of heating oil. 

 Apple's confession of weaker-than-expected earnings, made late last Thursday after the closing bell on the regular stock trading session, put it among a slew of companies cutting their earnings or revenue forecasts in recent weeks. 

 Apple fell $1-1/2 to close at $24-1/4, while Intel lost $1-7/16 to end at $40-1/8. 

 The high-tech sector, however, had its bright spots. 

 Blue-chip computer titan International Business Machines Corp. helped buoy the Dow with a gain of $5-5/16 to $117-13/16 amid talk of upgrades of its servers, computers that run networks of other computers. 

 J.P. Morgan & Co. also rose $5-1/8 to $168-1/2. 

Document cnewas0020010805dwa3004ny
 

 

 Concerns about global markets. 

 By J Mulraj. 
1,176 words
2 October 2000
The Times of India
TOI
English
 (c) 2000 The Times of India Group

 The 11 year bull market in the US has been the growth engine for the world's economy and its stockmarkets. This US economic growth has been spurred by innovation and technology, especially in the fields of telecom and computing, which, combined, have led to cost savings and productivity growth. It is this that has made possible the triple whammy of low inflation, low unemployment and high growth. The US Federal Reserve has been trying hard to ensure that the growth cycle is stretched, or, in case of an economic slowdown, that there should be a soft landing. 

 Now, however, there are several worrying signals. Oil has made stock markets slip across the world. In India, too, we are going to feel the pinch; kerosene prices have been raised by 50 per cent, petrol by 10 and diesel by 20. The first will lead to squeals of housewife protests, followed, perhaps, by a slight roll back that has been anticipated and built into the hike. The diesel hike will add to inflation and will take a massive toll on the trucking industry. Witness Telco's crashing share price that has hit a 10-year low. Of course, a mistaken entry into the car business has also played its part in the fall. Times are tough for global auto companies far larger than Telco and having continuous stream of products. DaimlerChrysler has issued a profit warning and Ford is having the tyre recall problem. Back home, Maruti is losing market share daily; yet the government still foolishly clings on to its half share. 

 Coming back to global concerns, the inebriated valuations of dotcom companies are now causing massive hangovers. In the US, 5,000 dotcom companies are expected to close down in September (on top of 17,000 that already have); there is huge consolidation taking place amongst others. Venture funding to dotcoms is very hard to get by. Even Amazon may be in trouble; it has cash for only seven months of operation and needs to organise funding before that. 

 Debt levels amongst US households is enormously high. US investors are comforted by the high valuations of their portfolios and this `wealth effect' is causing the spending splurge, fuelling an import pull. A lot of this is externally financed, by savings of rich Japanese or Europeans primarily because the US dollar is viewed as a platform currency. As Kenichi Ohmae explains in his wonderful book The Invisible Continent, the US has a great advantage because its currency is globally valued. It can, he says, print extra dollars without fear of inflation such an action would have in other economies, simply because the excess supply is absorbed by citizens of other countries (often stuffed under the mattress). That is one reason for low inflation. 

 All this is disturbing. What if the dollar lessens in importance as a platform currency, and part of global savings now in dollars shift to the newly created, and dipping, euro, or to the yen? Then the reverse spiral would start and, given the extremely high valuations, would cause major problems for the global economy. A chart in a survey in the latest issue of the Economist is revealing. During the previous five bull market peaks, including the 1929 peak just prior to the Great Depression, US stockmarket capitalisation was at around 80 per cent of its GDP. Today it is twice that! 

 A lot of this US stock market boom has been funded by the 401 K accounts. In the early 80s the US government gave greater freedom to its citizens to invest their own pension money, through such accounts. A lot of this money went into stocks, mostly via mutual funds. The comfort provided by this nest egg has caused individuals to spend more than they earn, leading to a negative savings rate. If a sharp fall is witnessed, the exit of 401 K account money could be fast and brutal. 

 In India we have not prepared ourselves for such a scenario. We have frittered away the increases in tax revenues in wasteful expenditure. We have no social security and no medicare. We have not invested in laying the telecom infrastructure that would allow us to take greater advantage of the new economy, as has Ireland, an economy that is witnessing double digit economic growth. Our economic growth has slowed down, and would further slow down after the hike in fuel prices. 

 Our fiscal house is in disarray. The latest attempt at privatisation, that of Indian Airlines, is pathetic. Twenty six per cent of shares would be offered to Indian companies or individuals including NRIs and OCBs (overseas corporate bodies majority held by Indians), and 25 to domestic financial institutions/employees/ public. Foreign participation is disallowed, and past experience in running an airline is not necessary, for absolutely no valid reason. This is a ridiculous way to manage divestment. A foreign airline would ultimately take control as is happening globally, in the meantime, some industry group or NRIs would make rentier money by virtue of a current restriction that will later be removed `in the interest of the airline' (sic) Himachal Futuristic is trying something which is interesting. It wants to partner with global leaders like Lucent or Cisco to undertake research on next generation of telecom equipment. In order to undertake such joint research, it is offering to be their production base. Several companies are looking to this model; outsourcing production to others (thereby unlocking capital) whilst concentrating on brand building and bringing out better products through research. The spinoffs for HFCL would not be in the manufacturing bit, which would basically be efficiently managed contract labour but in the joint R&D they would undertake. The company had raised some Rs 18 billion through a private placement, and is using some Rs 4.5 billion to retire debt and investing Rs 3.5 billion in setting up broadband networks. Interestingly, one of the telecom infrastructure companies, Nortel, has in fact set up a high level team that only looks at `disruptive technologies' i.e. such expected technology changes ICICI is also proactively looking at things. Its aspirations to become a full service financial organisation would be fulfilled if its plans to do a reverse merger with ICICI Bank go through. As indeed, it ought to. 

 The Wipro Equity Reward Trust, presumably an employee benefit trust, is discovered to have sold some 54,000 shares at the February peak price. The information has become available thanks to the ADR issue for which Wipro filed a US prospectus in which it had to mention this under US SEC regulations. It is time that our SEBI also asked Indian management to declare, as is done in mature markets, their trades as soon as they are done. Information on insider transactions are available to the common investor on a daily basis. What prevents it here? 

 Technically the Indian market seems oversold and a short rally may be expected. Selling in any rally would be sensible. 

Document toi0000020010818dwa200sjy
 

 

 Bond Markets-Most US yields rise with oil, eyes on Fed. 

 By Ross Finley 
645 words
2 October 2000
23:20
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Oct 2 (Reuters) - Long-term yields in U.S. credit markets rose on Monday as persistently high oil prices stoked fears of inflation, but yields on short-term government debt fell amid safe-haven buying sparked by a slide in technology stocks. 

 Trading was subdued ahead of a policy-setting meeting by the Federal Reserve on Tuesday. The central bank is widely expected to leave short-term interest rates unchanged so close to the U.S. presidential election on Nov. 7. 

 Demand for debt issued by federally chartered U.S. agencies was strong, narrowing the difference, or spread, between yields on agency securities and comparable U.S. Treasuries. 

 In the investment-grade corporate debt market, spreads were mostly unchanged as the market awaited a $2 billion 10-year global note sale on Tuesday or Wednesday from financial services giant Citigroup. 

 "We kind of tucked in and watched the Treasury market," said Carl Ericson, director of taxable fixed-income at Colonial Management in Boston, managing about $7 billion in bond assets. 

 Ericson said most market participants were unwilling to take hefty bets ahead of a key U.S. employment report on Friday. Bond market investors are hoping tight labour markets will show signs of slackening, easing concern that competition for scarce workers will place upward pressure on wages and prices. 

 "I don't think anybody wants to get ahead of themselves," Ericson said. 

 In the Treasury market, long-term yields rose from the start of trading as Middle East tensions and concerns over thin heating oil stocks pushed NYMEX crude oil $1.34 higher at $32.18 a barrel. 

 Ten-year Treasury notes fell 4/32 to 99-14/32, as their yield, which moves inversely to the price, rose to 5.83 percent. Thirty year bonds fell more than half a point with their yield rising to 5.93 percent. 

 Short-term Treasuries found a lift as the tech-rich Nasdaq stock index took another beating, down 2.8 percent after a similar slide on Friday following widespread earnings jitters on the heels of a profit warning from Apple Computer. 

 Investors fled stock market volatility for the safe-haven of shorter-dated Treasuries, sending their yields lower relative to longer-dated maturities - in market jargon, a "steepening" of the yield curve. 

 "Nasdaq weakness has been one of the things driving the curve steeper," said Jim Caron, market strategist at Merrill Lynch Government Securities. The yield curve charts the different returns offered on various Treasuries. 

 On the economic front, news that U.S. manufacturing activity contracted slightly for the second month in a row reinforced the widespread belief that the economy has slowed sufficiently to stay the Fed's hand for the rest of the year. 

 The National Association of Purchasing Management's (NAPM) closely-watched (NAPM) index of manufacturing activity read 49.9 in September, a hair below the key 50 level, indicating the sector is marginally shrinking. 

 "This one is literally about as neutral as it can get. And you're not absurdly stronger than the number you got last month," Ericson said. 

 The NAPM prices paid component, a gauge of inflationary pressure at the production level, rose to 58.1 from 56.2 in August, reflecting higher energy costs during the month. 

 Most fixed-income investors said the report would have little impact on forecasts the Fed will not touch its federal funds overnight bank lending rate, which stands at 6.50 percent. 

 "Tuesday's meeting will be a non-event," Merrill's Caron said. 

 The Fed last raised rates, by half a percentage point, in May. 

 In secondary trading, Fannie Mae 10-year notes due June 2010 yielded around 95 basis points over Treasuries, compared with 98 basis points on Friday, based on pricing service GovPX. 

Document lba0000020010821dwa205p6c
 

Newscast: Business news and stock report   

310 words
2 October 2000
CBS News: The Early Show
CBST
English
(c) Copyright 2000, CBS Worldwide Inc. All Rights Reserved.   

JIM NANTZ, co-host:   

It's time for this morning's MarketWatch with Susan McGinnis.   

Susan.   

SUSAN McGINNIS reporting:   

All right, Jim. Good morning. Thank you.   

Well, merger mania in the financial sector is not letting up. Fleet Boston says it's acquiring New Jersey's Summit Bancorp for $7 billion. We're also watching  SBC Communications and BellSouth after the FCC gave its approval to their merger, creating the nation's second biggest wireless carrier.   

Well, it appears a recovery is under way on Wall Street for this first day of the fourth quarter, after triple-digit losses Friday for both the Dow and the NASDAQ, thanks largely to Apple. We'll see if investors may see this as a buying opportunity after Apple's shares lost more than half their value on a profit warning, dropping nearly 28 points to 25 3/4 on Friday.   

(Graphic on screen)   

CBS MarketWatch cbs.marketwatch.com   

Dow Jones Industrials   

10,650.92   

down 173.14   

McGINNIS: That hurt the entire tech sector and the market overall and chopped 173 points off the Dow.   

(Graphic on screen)   

CBS MarketWatch cbs.marketwatch.com   

NASDAQ   

3,672.82   

down 105.50   

McGINNIS: It chopped a hefty 105 1/2 points from the NASDAQ.   

Napster attorneys are due back in court today to try to extend their lifeline. We'll be following that for you. You can follow it on our Web site at cbs.marketwatch.com.   

Back over now to Julie and Jim.   

JULIE CHEN (co-host): All right, thanks a lot, Susan.   

Still ahead this morning, we'll break down the Bush and Gore prescription drug plans for seniors.   

NANTZ: And we're going to talk with Tony Danza about his return to prime-time television tonight.   

CHEN: You're watching THE EARLY SHOW on CBS.   

(Announcements)   

Document CBST000020070818dwa2005d8
 

 

ONLINE INVESTING
BUSINESS
PaceSetters Database Beats Nasdaq With Less Volatility

Harry Domash   
935 words
2 October 2000
The San Francisco Chronicle
SFC
FINAL
D2
English
Copyright 2000. Hearst Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

How would you like to achieve, or even surpass, Nasdaq returns with less risk?

Why would you want to do that? Because most of the money made in the stock market in recent years came from Nasdaq-traded stocks.

The Nasdaq composite index soared more than 85 percent last year. It's a lot tougher this year, with the volatile Nasdaq down about 5 percent so far this year.

The PaceSetters Database, a monthly portfolio of recommended stocks, has outperformed the Nasdaq, and without the huge downdrafts. Since its inception in March 1988, the PaceSetters portfolio has rocketed 973 percent, compared with 926 percent for the Nasdaq, and has more than doubled the S&P 500 index's 472 percent gain.

.

HUMBLE BEGINNINGS

The PaceSetters Database was started as a hobby by Henry Grinde in the 1980s. Grinde's day job was running the Public Register's Annual Report Service, which distributes free annual reports from more than 3,500 public corporations to anyone who asks. Grinde also publishes the Public Register, a subscription newspaper for the investment industry.

Grinde, a former trader and marketmaker, hated to see all the financial information in the annual reports go to waste. He designed special software to sift through the data to pinpoint stocks with strong upside potential.

He started publishing his list of selected stocks, dubbed the PaceSetters Database, in his Public Register newspaper in March 1988. When PRARS established a Web site in 1996 (www.prars.com), primarily to take requests for free annual reports, it added the PaceSetters Database as an extra, no charge feature. You'll find the link to the PaceSetters Database on PRARS' homepage.

.

A FAMILY AFFAIR

Grinde's son, Erik, maintains the database. Erik Grinde selects companies with earnings, positive cash flow, and growing sales and profit margins for processing by Henry Grinde's original program. Any new stocks meeting Grinde's requirements are added to the PaceSetters Database.

Stocks are deleted from the portfolio "when their earnings growth slows, they issue an earnings warning or their profit margin falls," says Erik Grinde. The list is updated monthly, around the 20th, and reflects data as of the 15th of the month.

There is no fixed number of stocks on the list. I've seen as few as 15 and as many as 29. There isn't a lot of turnover. On average, there are, probably, two changes per month. Of the 23 companies included on the Aug. 15 list, 12 stocks were added this year, six in 1999, three were added in 1998 and two were from 1997.

The portfolio includes both growth and value-priced stocks. About half are tech or biotech names.

Grinde's selection formula rules out companies without earnings, so you'll see only well-established tech names such as EMC or Broadcom on the list.

The August portfolio also included companies from a variety of nontech industries such as recreational- vehicle-makers, construction companies and retailers. Stocks in the financial and insurance industries, along with real estate investment trusts, are excluded because they cannot be analyzed by Grinde's program.

.

SMOOTH RIDE

The PaceSetters Database achieves its Nasdaq-beating returns without the Nasdaq's volatility. The results so far this year are a good example.

Despite the Nasdaq's roller coaster ride this year, the PaceSetters Database has seen only one down month; it lost 12.5 percent from March 15 through April 15. During the same period the Nasdaq fell 28 percent.

Erik Grinde measures the PaceSetters' performance by monthly periods ending the 15th of each month. Here are the returns he tabulated for the periods ending Jan. 15, through Sept. 15, respectively: 5.4 percent, 6.9 percent, 5.7 percent, 12.5 percent loss, 6.6 percent, 3.9 percent, 13 percent, 3.9 percent and 4.4 percent.

The performance has been impressive. According to Grinde, "the largest monthly loss ever was 19 percent in July 1996."

Bear in mind, the PaceSetters Database uses a formula, or model, to pick stocks. It doesn't rely on an analysis of a company's products, competitive position, or other business and economic trends.

Although the PaceSetters' formula produces remarkable results on average, it, like all models, can come up with some real clunkers. For instance, August's third pick was Jakks Pacific. The toymaker's stock recently dropped 39 percent in three days when the company said current quarter earnings would come in below analysts' forecasts.

The clunker problem is magnified when, as in this case, the model produces a long buy list. Many of us are not in a position to buy 23 stocks. Cutting the list down to a manageable size without increasing the risk to unacceptable levels is a challenge.

Grinde suggests picking stocks starting from the bottom of the list. That's because the stocks at the bottom of the list, which is sorted by price/earnings ratio, are those the highest PEs.

On the other hand, he believes the high PE stocks have outperformed the list as a whole, especially in recent years.

Grinde doesn't think lower PE stocks are safer, and therefore, better investments than overpriced, high PE stocks.

Whatever you do with this information, don't blindly buy the stocks on the PaceSetters list without doing further research.

Harry Domash lives in Aptos (Santa Cruz County), teaches investing classes and publishes the Winning Investing newsletter. You can read his columns at www.winning investing.com or contact him at hdomash@winninginvesting.com.

Document SFC0000020120703dwa200240
 

 

 TOP STORIES FROM EUROPE, ASIA ON MONDAY - FROM THE US FRIDAY. 

1,222 words
2 October 2000
13:01
Market News International
MARNEW
English
(c) 2000. Market News International, Inc.

 * [EMU PMI POINTS TO SLOWING GROWTH] Manufacturing activity in the euro-zone continued strong in September, although it eased for the fifth month in a row, according to the Reuters purchasing managers index. The September overall PMI was 57.2, down from 58.6 in August. The price index shot up to 75.9 from 67.1 in August due to higher oil prices. This was the second-highest reading in the index's three-year history. -Germany's PMI also eased but from high levels, with the index slipping to 56.5 in September after 58.2 in August. The price index rose to 73.2 from 67.9 a month before. -The French PMI showed the strong expansion continued in September, although at a slower rate, with the index posting 59.8, compared with 62.2 in August. The price index shot up to 81.0 from 65.8. -The Italian manufacturing sector continued to expand in September, but at a slower rate, with the PMI posting 56.7 versus 57.4 in August. Input prices surged to 78.0, a three-year high, from 69.9. 

  (Stories repeated 11:12 GMT) 

 * [ECB REFI MARGINAL RATE RISES] The European Central Bank alloted E99.0 bln in 14-day variable-rate refinancing agreements (refis) at a marginal rate of 4.67%, up 2 bps from last week. The weighted average of all allocated bids was unchanged at 4.68%. The operation drained E5.0 bln in liquidity as E104.0 bln in refis expire on Wednesday. The ECB said it accepted 96.04% of bids at the marginal rate. The maximum bid by banks this week was 5.00% and the minimum bid was 4.50%. (Story repeated 11:12 GMT) 

 * [GERMAN MINISTER SEES STRONG EURO RECOVERY] Economics Minister Werner Mueller told Die Welt newspaper he expects the euro to recover "very significantly" and to reach parity with the dollar in the "foreseeable future." (Story at 06:40 GMT) 

 * [GERMAN WHOLESALE SALES UP] Real wholesale sales in August jumped a non-seasonally adjusted real 5.4% on the year, reversing a fall of 0.9% in July. Nominal sales rose an unadjusted 12.2% on the year. Strong summer sales and one extra shopping day compared with Aug.1999 helped wholesalers. Wholesale sales for the first 8 months have rising a healthy 4.3% in real terms and 10.3% in nominal terms compared with a year earlier. (Repeated 11:12 GMT) 

 * [MODERATE IMPACT OF HIGHER OIL PRICES ON GERMAN GDP] Economics Minister Mueller also said in the Die Welt interview a continuation of higher oil prices would only cut 0.1% to 0.2% from German GDP growth in 2000. He also predicted the economy would grow more strongly this year than the government's 2.75% forecast. He said the economy is "still developing very well." (Story repeated 11:12 GMT) 

 * [UK MONEY SUPPLY HIGHER THAN FORECAST] The M0 measure of narrow money in September rose by 1.8% on the month and 8.6% on the year, provisional, seasonally adjusted data showed. Analysts had forecast a monthly rise of 1.3% and an annual rate of 8.1%. (Story ran 08:35 GMT) 

 * [UK, GERMANS' DISTRUST OF EURO DEEPENS:] Opinion polls in Germany and the UK showed gathering opposition to adoption of the euro in a referendum. A weekend poll by the DIMAP institute and published in a German newspaper, Bild, showed only 15% of those question had "complete" trust in the euro. Another 33% said they have "no trust at all" in the euro, while 51% said they have "only limited trust" in the unit. In the UK, a MORI poll in the Sun newspaper showed 70% of voters would reject the euro if a referendum were held today. 09:12 GMT) 

 * [UK POLLS SHOW LABOUR BACK IN LEAD] A clutch of opinion polls over the weekend and Monday confirmed that the ruling Labour Party had restored its lead over the oppositon Tories after Labour leaders promised to listen to criticisms and act on them at their annual conference. However, the lead is only as much as half the 20-point lead Labour enjoyed over the Tories in the summer before the fuel crisis broke. (Stories 06:36,07:59,09:12 GMT) 

 * [EU-US AGREE TRUCE] A weekend agreement on how to handle a dispute over US tax breaks for exporters has averted the immediate threat of a trade conflict between the US and the EU. The dispute is not settled, however, and the WTO will have to rule on whether proposed changes to US laws on foreign sales corporations bring the regime into compliance with trade rules. The WTO had ruled that FSC tax breaks are an illegal exporet subside and ordered the US to change the regime by Oct.1. (Stories repeated 05:36 GMT) 

 * [ANALYSTS EXPECT THE BANK OF JAPAN'S QUARTERLY TANKEN] report will show continued improvement, albeit small, reflecting a manufacturing-led recovery that has yet to take hold in the consumer sector. The third-quarter tanken is to be released Tuesday at 08:50 JST. 

 [FROM THE US FRIDAY:] 

 * [US SHARES HIT HARD BY APPLE] U.S. shares ended Friday sharply lower tripped up by a profit warning from Apple, which raised new worries over corporate profits. Apple was cut in half, down 27 13/16 at 25 11/16 [AAPL] in very heavy volume. The company warned late Thursday that weak September sales and poor demand for its G4 Cube would put third quarter earnings in the 30 to 33 cent range vs. the 45 cents that were expected. The Nasdaq composite finished down 105.50 to 3,672.82 or 2.8 percent, while the Dow Industrials were down 173.14 at 10,650.92 - down 1.76% for the week. Volumes were active. Bear Stearns rose 5 155/256 to 62 5/16 [BSC] as new rumors peg it as a takeover partner. 

 * [CHICAGO PURCHASERS SEE GAINS] In Friday morning's key economic release, the Chicago Purchasing Managers' index rose above the watershed 50.0 mark to 51.4 in September from 46.5 in August, and well above median estimates of 48.0, suggesting that the economy is not heading towards a recession any time soon. Prices paid were 66.7 versus 

 58.6 in August, most likely a reflection of higher oil prices. 

 *    [US PERSONAL INCOME UP LESS THAN SPENDING] U.S. personal 

 income in August rose 0.4%, with personal spending up 0.6%. However, that rate at with wages and salaries grew declined to an increase of 0.3% from 0.5% in July. The jump in August consumer spending was financed by a decline in the savings rate as savings declined by 0.4% to the lowest since monthly records were begun in 1959, sources pointed out. Real PCE now stands 1% above the 2Q average, or +3.9% on a seasonally-adjusted basis, compared with +3.1% PCE in the 2Q GDP. 

 * [US AUTO DEALERS SAY SEPTEMBER WAS STRONG] U.S. auto dealers report September sales were strong, even allowing for a seasonal slowing, and Ford dealers report minimal ill effect from the Firestone tire debacle. 

 [TOPICS: MT $ $ $$]. 

Document marnew0020010814dwa200sf9
 

 

 TOP STORIES FROM ASIA ON MONDAY AND FROM THE US FRIDAY. 

1,222 words
2 October 2000
13:00
Market News International
MARNEW
English
(c) 2000. Market News International, Inc.

 * [EMU PMI POINTS TO SLOWING GROWTH] Manufacturing activity in the euro-zone continued strong in September, although it eased for the fifth month in a row, according to the Reuters purchasing managers index. The September overall PMI was 57.2, down from 58.6 in August. The price index shot up to 75.9 from 67.1 in August due to higher oil prices. This was the second-highest reading in the index's three-year history. -Germany's PMI also eased but from high levels, with the index slipping to 56.5 in September after 58.2 in August. The price index rose to 73.2 from 67.9 a month before. -The French PMI showed the strong expansion continued in September, although at a slower rate, with the index posting 59.8, compared with 62.2 in August. The price index shot up to 81.0 from 65.8. -The Italian manufacturing sector continued to expand in September, but at a slower rate, with the PMI posting 56.7 versus 57.4 in August. Input prices surged to 78.0, a three-year high, from 69.9. 

  (Stories repeated 11:12 GMT) 

 * [ECB REFI MARGINAL RATE RISES] The European Central Bank alloted E99.0 bln in 14-day variable-rate refinancing agreements (refis) at a marginal rate of 4.67%, up 2 bps from last week. The weighted average of all allocated bids was unchanged at 4.68%. The operation drained E5.0 bln in liquidity as E104.0 bln in refis expire on Wednesday. The ECB said it accepted 96.04% of bids at the marginal rate. The maximum bid by banks this week was 5.00% and the minimum bid was 4.50%. (Story repeated 11:12 GMT) 

 * [GERMAN MINISTER SEES STRONG EURO RECOVERY] Economics Minister Werner Mueller told Die Welt newspaper he expects the euro to recover "very significantly" and to reach parity with the dollar in the "foreseeable future." (Story at 06:40 GMT) 

 * [GERMAN WHOLESALE SALES UP] Real wholesale sales in August jumped a non-seasonally adjusted real 5.4% on the year, reversing a fall of 0.9% in July. Nominal sales rose an unadjusted 12.2% on the year. Strong summer sales and one extra shopping day compared with Aug.1999 helped wholesalers. Wholesale sales for the first 8 months have rising a healthy 4.3% in real terms and 10.3% in nominal terms compared with a year earlier. (Repeated 11:12 GMT) 

 * [MODERATE IMPACT OF HIGHER OIL PRICES ON GERMAN GDP] Economics Minister Mueller also said in the Die Welt interview a continuation of higher oil prices would only cut 0.1% to 0.2% from German GDP growth in 2000. He also predicted the economy would grow more strongly this year than the government's 2.75% forecast. He said the economy is "still developing very well." (Story repeated 11:12 GMT) 

 * [UK MONEY SUPPLY HIGHER THAN FORECAST] The M0 measure of narrow money in September rose by 1.8% on the month and 8.6% on the year, provisional, seasonally adjusted data showed. Analysts had forecast a monthly rise of 1.3% and an annual rate of 8.1%. (Story ran 08:35 GMT) 

 * [UK, GERMANS' DISTRUST OF EURO DEEPENS:] Opinion polls in Germany and the UK showed gathering opposition to adoption of the euro in a referendum. A weekend poll by the DIMAP institute and published in a German newspaper, Bild, showed only 15% of those question had "complete" trust in the euro. Another 33% said they have "no trust at all" in the euro, while 51% said they have "only limited trust" in the unit. In the UK, a MORI poll in the Sun newspaper showed 70% of voters would reject the euro if a referendum were held today. 09:12 GMT) 

 * [UK POLLS SHOW LABOUR BACK IN LEAD] A clutch of opinion polls over the weekend and Monday confirmed that the ruling Labour Party had restored its lead over the oppositon Tories after Labour leaders promised to listen to criticisms and act on them at their annual conference. However, the lead is only as much as half the 20-point lead Labour enjoyed over the Tories in the summer before the fuel crisis broke. (Stories 06:36,07:59,09:12 GMT) 

 * [EU-US AGREE TRUCE] A weekend agreement on how to handle a dispute over US tax breaks for exporters has averted the immediate threat of a trade conflict between the US and the EU. The dispute is not settled, however, and the WTO will have to rule on whether proposed changes to US laws on foreign sales corporations bring the regime into compliance with trade rules. The WTO had ruled that FSC tax breaks are an illegal exporet subside and ordered the US to change the regime by Oct.1. (Stories repeated 05:36 GMT) 

 * [ANALYSTS EXPECT THE BANK OF JAPAN'S QUARTERLY TANKEN] report will show continued improvement, albeit small, reflecting a manufacturing-led recovery that has yet to take hold in the consumer sector. The third-quarter tanken is to be released Tuesday at 08:50 JST. 

 [FROM THE US FRIDAY:] 

 * [US SHARES HIT HARD BY APPLE] U.S. shares ended Friday sharply lower tripped up by a profit warning from Apple, which raised new worries over corporate profits. Apple was cut in half, down 27 13/16 at 25 11/16 [AAPL] in very heavy volume. The company warned late Thursday that weak September sales and poor demand for its G4 Cube would put third quarter earnings in the 30 to 33 cent range vs. the 45 cents that were expected. The Nasdaq composite finished down 105.50 to 3,672.82 or 2.8 percent, while the Dow Industrials were down 173.14 at 10,650.92 - down 1.76% for the week. Volumes were active. Bear Stearns rose 5 155/256 to 62 5/16 [BSC] as new rumors peg it as a takeover partner. 

 * [CHICAGO PURCHASERS SEE GAINS] In Friday morning's key economic release, the Chicago Purchasing Managers' index rose above the watershed 50.0 mark to 51.4 in September from 46.5 in August, and well above median estimates of 48.0, suggesting that the economy is not heading towards a recession any time soon. Prices paid were 66.7 versus 

 58.6 in August, most likely a reflection of higher oil prices. 

 *    [US PERSONAL INCOME UP LESS THAN SPENDING] U.S. personal 

 income in August rose 0.4%, with personal spending up 0.6%. However, that rate at with wages and salaries grew declined to an increase of 0.3% from 0.5% in July. The jump in August consumer spending was financed by a decline in the savings rate as savings declined by 0.4% to the lowest since monthly records were begun in 1959, sources pointed out. Real PCE now stands 1% above the 2Q average, or +3.9% on a seasonally-adjusted basis, compared with +3.1% PCE in the 2Q GDP. 

 * [US AUTO DEALERS SAY SEPTEMBER WAS STRONG] U.S. auto dealers report September sales were strong, even allowing for a seasonal slowing, and Ford dealers report minimal ill effect from the Firestone tire debacle. 

 [TOPICS: MT $ $ $$]. 

Document marnew0020010814dwa200sf4
 

 

 TOP STORIES FROM ASIA ON MONDAY AND FROM THE US FRIDAY. 

745 words
2 October 2000
06:43
Market News International
MARNEW
English
(c) 2000. Market News International, Inc.

 * [DOLLAR-YEN CONTINUES TO HOLD IN A TIGHT RANGE] between Y108.05 and Y108.33 as dealers take a cautious tone in the start of the new fiscal half year. Of note, Japanese names were buyers at the lows and a large U.S. investment was seller above Y108.20. Strong resistance is not expected to start until Y108.50 while the first level of support is at Y107.75. Market attention is mainly focused on the tankan release Tuesday morning. Euro-dollar is stuck in a tight range between $0.8821 and $0.8842. Fears of central bank intervention have zapped volatility while for now a base is being built above $0.8800. The first resistance point is at $0.8860. 

 * [ANALYSTS EXPECT THE BANK OF JAPAN'S QUARTERLY TANKEN] report will show continued improvement, albeit small, reflecting a manufacturing-led recovery that has yet to take hold in the consumer sector. The third-quarter tanken is to be released Tuesday at 08:50 JST. 

 [FROM THE US FRIDAY:] 

 * [US SHARES HIT HARD BY APPLE] U.S. shares ended Friday sharply lower tripped up by a profit warning from Apple, which raised new worries over corporate profits. Apple was cut in half, down 27 13/16 at 25 11/16 [AAPL] in very heavy volume. The company warned late Thursday that weak September sales and poor demand for its G4 Cube would put third quarter earnings in the 30 to 33 cent range vs. the 45 cents that were expected. The Nasdaq composite finished down 105.50 to 3,672.82 or 2.8 percent, while the Dow Industrials were down 173.14 at 10,650.92 - down 1.76% for the week. Volumes were active. Bear Stearns rose 5 155/256 to 62 5/16 [BSC] as new rumors peg it as a takeover partner. 

 * [CHICAGO PURCHASERS SEE GAINS] In Friday morning's key economic release, the Chicago Purchasing Managers' index rose above the watershed 50.0 mark to 51.4 in September from 46.5 in August, and well above median estimates of 48.0, suggesting that the economy is not heading towards a recession any time soon. Prices paid were 66.7 versus 

 58.6 in August, most likely a reflection of higher oil prices. 

 *    [US PERSONAL INCOME UP LESS THAN SPENDING] U.S. personal 

 income in August rose 0.4%, with personal spending up 0.6%. However, that rate at with wages and salaries grew declined to an increase of 0.3% from 0.5% in July. The jump in August consumer spending was financed by a decline in the savings rate as savings declined by 0.4% to the lowest since monthly records were begun in 1959, sources pointed out. Real PCE now stands 1% above the 2Q average, or +3.9% on a seasonally-adjusted basis, compared with +3.1% PCE in the 2Q GDP. 

 * [EU-US TALK AS FSC DEADLINE ARRIVES] Top U.S. and European Union negotiators, in the third day of talks in Brussels, are trying to broker a deal to delay one to two months the Oct. 1, World Trade Organization deadline for further changes in the U.S. Foreign Sales Corporation tax mechanism, officials said. The scheme was found in violation of global rules by a WTO dispute panel in October 1999 that was upheld in a WTO Appellate Body ruling in February of this year. Failure to broker a deal could prompt the EU to set in motion after Oct.1 new WTO legal proceedings, which could culminate in the slapping of multi-billion punitive tariffs against U.S. exports. 

 * [US AUTO DEALERS SAY SEPTEMBER WAS STRONG] U.S. auto dealers report September sales were strong, even allowing for a seasonal slowing, and Ford dealers report minimal ill effect from the Firestone tire debacle. Some say overall sales might have been stronger had factories not further cut back on popular leasing programs that in months and years past spurred record-breaking demand for new cars and light trucks. Automakers have reduced leasing programs on worries that off-lease vehicles are glutting the used car market, driving down the residual value of older cars and making new ones tougher to sell. But some have heard scuttlebutt that automakers will resume leasing programs in October, giving in to consumer demands that could lead to a fourth quarter sales surge. 

 [TOPICS: MT $ $ $$]. 

Document marnew0020010814dwa200s9h
 

 News; Domestic 
 AARP Trying to Broaden Reach 

 Jim Nantz 
933 words
2 October 2000
12:00
CBS News: The Early Show
CBST
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 Over the next four decades, the number of people in this country 50 years and older is expected to double to 129 million, and the AARP is already reaching out to them, launching a new campaign this morning. 

 JIM NANTZ, CBS ANCHOR:  Back at 7:18. 

 Over the next four decades, the number of people in this country 50 years and older is expected to double to 129 million, and the AARP is already reaching out to them, launching a new campaign this morning. 

 Horace Deets is the group`s executive director.  He`s in Washington, along with AARP member Marsha Mandel. 

 Good morning to both of you.  Horace, I can see the headquarters in the background.  I know this is a big day for you. 

 Tell us about the new campaign, what it`s all about. 

 HORACE DEETS, AARP EXEC. DIRECTOR:  Well, it`s an opportunity for us to tell the world that today`s AARP is perhaps a lot different than what they thought, and that we are reaching to be much more relevant to people 50 and over, to give them the voice, the choice and attitude we think are appropriate for today`s people who are getting older. 

 NANTZ:  Do you feel you really need to bolster public awareness? 

 DEETS:  Well, I think it`s the image that we need to clarify.  A lot of people don`t really understand that our membership begins at 50, and a lot don`t realize all the wealth of services and programs we have for our members and the things we`re doing in their local communities as well. 

 NANTZ:  Marsha, you are a teacher, a salsa dancer, and you`re also over 50 years old. 

 MARSHA MANDEL, AARP MEMBER:  That`s correct. 

 NANTZ:  And you`re also a role model for the organization.  How do you feel about all that? 

 MANDEL:  Oh, I`m thrilled to be here.  It`s exciting.  It`s innovating.  It`s one of the best things that`s ever happened. 

 NANTZ:  How has the association enhanced your life, Marsha? 

 MANDEL:  Well, the multiple opportunities that they offer, the -- for people my age, the exposure, the Baby Boomers coming up.  I think it`s a new -- with the new millennium, it`s a new AARP that`s dancing. 

 NANTZ:  Well, the curtains are up, because at noon you`ll be unveiling the building there, Horace, shrink-wrapped. 

 MANDEL:  That`s right. 

 NANTZ:  Morris, tell me, a lot of people get confused about this.  Do you have to be retired to be a member of the organization? 

 DEETS:  No, you don`t.  In fact, 45 percent of our members are still working either part or full time, and retirement is never going to be a condition for membership.  We changed our name about a year a half ago from American Association of Retired Persons to simply AARP since people knew us by that name and since it took out the word "retirement." 

 NANTZ:  Well, Horace and Marsha, have a great day today.  I know it`ll be fun for you, 12:00 noon, the unveiling.  Thanks for being with us. 

 DEETS:  Thank you. 

 MANDEL:  Thank you for having me. 

 NANTZ:  It`s time for this morning`s "Marketwatch" with Susan McGinnis -- Susan. 

 SUSAN MCGINNIS, CBS CORRESPONDENT:  All right, Jim, good morning. Thank you.  Well, merger mania in the financial sector is not letting up. Fleet Boston says it`s acquiring New Jersey`s Summit Bancorp for $7 billion.  We`re also watching SBC Communications and BellSouth after the FCC gave its approval to their merger, creating the nation`s second biggest wireless carrier. 

 Well, it appears a recovery is under way today on Wall Street for this first day of the fourth quarter, after triple-digit losses Friday for both the Dow and the Nasdaq, thanks largely to Apple.  We`ll see if investors may see this as a buying opportunity after Apple`s shares lost more than half their value on a profit warning, dropping nearly 28 points, to 25 3/4 on Friday.  That hurt the entire tech sector and the market overall and chopped 173 points off the Dow.  It chopped a hefty 105 1/2 points from the Nasdaq.  Napster attorneys are due back in court today to try to extend their lifeline.  We`ll be following that for you.  You can follow it on our Web site at cbs.marketwatch.com. 

 Back over now to Jim and Julie. 

 CHEN:  All right, thanks a lot, Susan. 

 Still ahead this morning, we`ll break down the Bush and Gore prescription drug plans for seniors. 

 NANTZ:  And we`re going talk with Tony Danza about his return to primetime television tonight. 

 CHEN:  You`re watching THE EARLY SHOW on CBS. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 MSNBC.  ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Transcription Copyright 2000 eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon MSNBC and eMediaMillWorks, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document cbst000020010804dwa2000l8
 

 

 Stocks open higher 

298 words
2 October 2000
15:00
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Stocks opened higher Monday on bargain hunting that followed last week's big selloff. 

 In the first hour of trading, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 55.87 to 10,706.79. 

 Broader stock indicators were also higher. The Nasdaq composite index moved up 31.10 to 3,703.92. The Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 6.18 to 1,442.69. 

 Despite Monday's early selling, investors remained anxious about the impending release of third-quarter earnings reports. They again sold off stocks of companies that warned of disappointing results. 

 Caterpillar was down $2 to $31.81 as investors reacted to its announcement late Friday that profits would be lower than expected. 

 The market fell sharply during September amid growing uneasiness about profits, not just for the third quarter, but also the coming quarters. 

 Reaction to a profit warning from Apple Computer sent the Dow down 173 points and the Nasdaq 105 points on Friday. 

 But investors were looking for good buys Monday, and they bid Electronic Data Systems up $1.38 to $42.88 after a Goldman Sachs analyst upgraded the stock to "Recommended for Purchase" from "Market Outperformer." 

 Shares of Merrill Lynch also traded higher, up 63 cents at $66.63 on rumors the financial services company might be a possible target for a takeover. 

 The Russell 200 index was up 1.79 at 523.16. 

 Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average rose 0.99 percent. In afternoon trading, Germany's DAX index was up 1.14 percent, Britain's FT-SE 100 was up 0.76 percent, and France's CAC-40 was up 1.31 percent. 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

 New York Stock Exchange: http://www.nyse.com

 Nasdaq Stock Market: http://www.nasdaq.com

Urgent

Document aprs000020010804dwa200zl8
 

 

 Bay Street sells into third-quarter jitters. 

 By Ian Karleff 
726 words
1 October 2000
19:17
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 TORONTO, Oct 1 (Reuters) - September was a bad month for Toronto equities as fearful investors decided to sell stocks rather than wait for third-quarter results to prove whether lofty growth forecasts were justified. 

Profit warnings from high profile companies continue to attack positive sentiment with Apple Computer Inc.'s warning last Thursday evening being the latest in a string of upsets for the high technology sector. 

 Apple carved back earnings estimates due to slowing sales, and with Intel Corp.'s warning the week earlier, investors are losing faith in technology's ability to deliver on growth promises. 

 The Toronto Stock Exchange 300 Index gave up 2 percent last week, bringing the total loss in September to 8 percent with the index closing on Friday at 10,377.92. 

 Canada's largest and best known stock, Nortel Networks Corp. swooned early in the week after a U.S.-based analyst confirmed mounting assumptions saying demand for telecom infrastructure products would falter in 2001. 

 The shares of Nortel, which make up one-third of the TSE 300 Index, touched a year low of C$86.50 on Thursday, down 30 percent from their year high. 

 The stock recovered to C$90 on Friday, but still sits precariously below its technically significant 200 day moving average. 

 Yet even with Nortel down 26 percent in September the benchmark TSE 300 index is still up a healthy 23 percent. 

 Eric Sprott, Chairman of Sprott Securities in Toronto said he is surprised more fear has not materialised, considering that so-called "great stocks" continue to disappoint. 

 "I think stocks trading at world beating multiples will come under selling pressure because they won't have the growth on a sustained basis," Sprott said. 

 "I'm surprised that there is so little fear when we have stocks that make earnings warnings - that are supposedly great investments - and they fall by 25 percent in a day," he added. 

 Investors charge into the flavor-of-the-month sectors - with fuel cells and fiber optics among the latest crazes - and then a correction follows, and yet another "hot" sector emerges, he said. 

 "We have been in a bit of a market mania that ended in March and most people haven't figured it out yet," Sprott added. 

 Shrinking savings rates, and the need for investors to spend more on heating their homes and fuelling gas guzzling sport utility vehicles will soon make an impact on the stock market that relies on continual cash infusions, Sprott said. 

 Cold weather is just beginning to emerge, and Torontonians are already opening up home heating bills that are 30 percent higher than a year ago. 

 Jeff Cheah, market strategist at Standard & Poor's MMS in Toronto said that now is not the time to "bail out of stocks," despite general nervousness over third-quarter earnings. 

 Market gyrations in the magnitude of 200 points have become commonplace in September, leading Cheah to surmise that investors are nervous about what third-quarter results will reveal. 

 "When the volatility moves in such big chunks you have to assume the market is not clear of the trends, and is very nervous. Nervous about earnings," Cheah said. 

 But there are early signs from some companies that third-quarter earnings will be all and more of investor's expectations. 

 Research In Motion , a Canadian success story that is taking on industry giants with its two-way wireless e-mail and Internet device, reported revenue growth on Thursday that topped the highest forecasts by 25 percent. 

 "RIM is the kind of stock that sets the psychological tone. How it performs will in a way determine the health of the high-tech sector," Cheah added. 

 Unfortunately for the TSE300 Index, a C$5 rise in RIM's share price only adds three points to the index, while a C$5 drop in Nortel takes the index down 200 points. 

 Cheah believes RIM's positive results are indicative of what the technology sector will deliver over the next three weeks. 

 "We're still going to be overcast through the third week of October when three-quarters of stocks have announced. Right now there's a fear mentality rather than greed. Now is the time to buy stocks because people are so fearful," he added. ($1= $1.50 Canadian). 

Document lba0000020010821dwa1060yx
 

 

Jerry Berger Column
NEWS
WENDY WIESE WANTS OUT AT KTRS; ONE OF THE HILL'S FAVORITE SONS GETS AN AWARD  

By Jerry Berger  
991 words
1 October 2000
St. Louis Post-Dispatch
SLMO
EDITION: FIVE STAR LIFT
PAGE: A2
English
Copyright 2000, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.  

MEDIA MIX: St. Louisans have awakened to her voice since she was a slip of a girl. Wendy Wiese has just served notice to her bosses at KTRS (550 AM), that she wants to leave sooner than the expiration of her contract in February. Wiese first endeared herself to listeners as the late Bob Hardy's sidekick on KMOX (1120 AM) for about 13 years. Wiese was front 'n center last week at the Marriott's Pavilion Hotel for the Jack Buck Beacon of Excellence Award ceremony, sponsored by the St. Louis Chapter of the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists. Jack Buck presented the award to one of The Hill's favorite sons, Joe Garagiola. The Hill's other favorite son, Yogi Berra, was also on hand with his wife, Carmen. The event included the presentation of the Nellie Booth Service Award to KMOV Channel 4's Donn Johnson.  

 At the podium, Buck introduced himself as "Mike Shannon's interpreter," after which Garagiola quipped, "I brought a priest (Monsignor Sal Polizzi), and Donn Johnson came with the Chief of Pol ice (Ron Henderson). What does that say about Donn?" Proceeds from the event benefited the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation and the St. Louis Public Library Archives. ... About the same time, Fleishman-Hillard cinched the international public relations account for Reebok, and F-H Chairman and CEO John D. Graham was named to the Arthur W. Page Society Hall of Fame. At the society's annual conference in Charleston, S.C., its prez James E. Murphy said of Graham, "(He) grew his firm from a small regional player into the largest agency in the U.S. and one of the largest in the world. ... In the process, he has established some solid benchmarks for all public relations practitioners."  

MAP TAP: Experts from the architectural and engineering firm of David Mason & Associates have spread out through downtown to conduct a 60-block high-tech survey of the central business district. City officials, who are planning downtown's new streetscape, have commissioned the survey in order to discover what tunnels, caverns, chasms and pipes are located beneath the city streets.  

NO GOOD DEED: Pardon local not-for-profit groups if some of them look back on the past year as a relatively unfriendly time for do-gooders. Local outbreaks of unhappiness about restrictive national policies have bedeviled some local scouting leaders, while lax supervision by St. Louis City Hall of its own fund-raising efforts on behalf of a private city living campaign cast a definite pall over other worthwhile mayoral causes. And, finally, voters statewide are poised to consider a new law that would, among other things, ban many of the highway billboards that trumpet public service messages warning against drunken driving and teen smoking and that encourage reading and staying in school.  

PEOPLE PATTER: Former Grand Center staffer Maureen Concannon has inked a pact with Soulard's Mardi Gras to serve as its first exec director. Concannon's task will include refereeing the inevitable police, residents and merchants' squabbles about the parade routes, raising corporate dollars to underwrite the annual pre-Lenten fete and, of course, buying skads of beads. ... Doug Johaningmeyer, longtime food and beverage chief of the Lodge of the Four Seasons, has been tapped to ditto for the Adam's Mark Hotel. ... Joe Pollack is moving back to the restaurant beat with a twist, joining Allyson Mace and Catherine Neville on their Web site,  www.SauceCafe.com. Pollack, who served 23 years as the Post-Dispatch restaurant critic, will contribute columns every other Thursday. "St. Loui s restaurants, never better, are about to take a big leap into the 21st century," he said, "and I'm excited about going along for the ride" ... Illinois Judicial Circuit Judge Milton S. Wharton will helm the East St. Louis Branch of the NAACP's dinner on Oct. 8 at the Regal Riverfront Hotel. Supreme Court Chief Justice Moses W. Harrison will be keynote speaker. For more info, call 618-271-4698. ... The board of directors of the Chatillon-DeMenil Mansion has assembled our town's largest collection of 1904 World's Fair memorabilia to highlight its Oct. 13 fund-raiser on behalf of some of the most distinguished examples of Greek Revival architecture. Party co-chairs Sara Tetley and Steve Shepley promise cocktails, dinner and dancing. Tetley has the details at 314-231-7318. ... Rams Park in Earth City will be hopping on Oct. 14, when Giant Steps, the agency that helps children with autism, holds its dinner auction, chaired by the team's senior veep Bob Wallace and Clayco's Bob Clark. ... The Sacred Heart Villa's "Heartfelt Thanks" awards dinner and auction will be held Nov. 12 at The Cedars and will be helmed by Mimi and Joe Lordo. A hunt is on for items to go under the gavel. For more info, call 314-647-1124.  

PRESSING ON: Rhode Island Congressman Patrick Kennedy, whose teen-idol good looks belie his role as a top strategist for the Democrats' campaign to win a majority in the U.S. House of Representatives, was scheduled to stump for Dem Steve Carroll this weekend in Columbia, Mo. Carroll is vying for the congressional seat now held by GOP Kenny Hulshof. ... CNN will host a town hall meeting in conjunction with the presidential debate on Oct. 11 at the Lodge of Grant's Trail, Hoffmeister and Union roads in south St. Louis County. ... Bryan Cave barrister Linda Martinez was glad-handed on her 38th natal day by a high-powered crew, including Downtown Now's Tom Reeves, developer Amos Harris, high tech exec Chris Dornfeld, security consultant Patrick McCarthy and Mary Campbell at Court Square's St. Louis Steakhouse.  

PHOTO | Photo headshots - (Wendy) Wiese, (Donn) Johnson, (John D.) Graham  

Document SLMO000020040606dwa10139e
 

 

Jerry Berger Column
NEWS
WENDY WIESE WANTS OUT AT KTRS; ONE OF THE HILL'S FAVORITE SONS GETS AN AWARD  

By Jerry Berger  
1,010 words
1 October 2000
St. Louis Post-Dispatch
SLMO
EDITION: THREE STAR
PAGE: A2
English
Copyright 2000, St. Louis Post-Dispatch.  All Rights Reserved.  

MEDIA MIX: St. Louisans have awakened to her voice since she was a slip of a girl. Wendy Wiese has just served notice to her bosses at KTRS (550 AM), that she wants to leave sooner than the expiration of her contract in February. Wiese first endeared herself to listeners as the late Bob Hardy's sidekick on KMOX (1120 AM) for about 13 years. Wiese was front 'n center last week at the Marriott's Pavilion Hotel for the Jack Buck Beacon of Excellence Award ceremony, sponsored by the St. Louis Chapter of the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists. Jack Buck presented the award to one of The Hill's favorite sons, Joe Garagiola. The Hill's other favorite son, Yogi Berra, was also on hand with his wife, Carmen. The event included the presentation of the Nellie Booth Service Award to KMOV Channel 4's Donn Johnson.  

 At the podium, Buck introduced himself as "Mike Shannon's interpreter," after which Garagiola quipped, "I brought a priest (Monsignor Sal Polizzi), and Donn Johnson came with the Chief of Pol ice (Ron Henderson). What does that say about Donn?" Proceeds from the event benefited the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation and the St. Louis Public Library Archives. ... About the same time, Fleishman-Hillard cinched the international public relations account for Reebok, and F-H Chairman and CEO John D. Graham was named to the Arthur W. Page Society Hall of Fame. At the society's annual conference in Charleston, S.C., its prez James E. Murphy said of Graham, "(He) grew his firm from a small regional player into the largest agency in the U.S. and one of the largest in the world. ... In the process, he has established some solid benchmarks for all public relations practitioners."  

MAP TAP: Experts from the architectural and engineering firm of David Mason & Associates have spread out through downtown to conduct a 60-block high-tech survey of the central business district. City officials, who are planning downtown's new streetscape, have commissioned the survey in order to discover what tunnels, caverns, chasms and pipes are located beneath the city streets.  

NO GOOD DEED: Pardon local not-for-profit groups if some of them look back on the past year as a relatively unfriendly time for do-gooders. Local outbreaks of unhappiness about restrictive national policies have bedeviled some local scouting leaders, while lax supervision by St. Louis City Hall of its own fund-raising efforts on behalf of a private city living campaign cast a definite pall over other worthwhile mayoral causes. And, finally, voters statewide are poised to consider a new law that would, among other things, ban many of the highway billboards that trumpet public service messages warning against drunken driving and teen smoking and that encourage reading and staying in school.  

PEOPLE PATTER: Former Grand Center staffer Maureen Concannon has inked a pact with Soulard's Mardi Gras to serve as its first exec director. Concannon's task will include refereeing the inevitable police, residents and merchants' squabbles about the parade routes, raising corporate dollars to underwrite the annual pre-Lenten fete and, of course, buying skads of beads. ... Doug Johaningmeyer, longtime food and beverage chief of the Lodge of the Four Seasons, has been tapped to ditto for the Adam's Mark Hotel. ... Joe Pollack is moving back to the restaurant beat with a twist, joining Allyson Mace and Catherine Neville on their Web site,  www.SauceCafe.com. Pollack, who served 23 years as the Post-Dispatch restaurant critic, will contribute columns every other Thursday. "St. Loui s restaurants, never better, are about to take a big leap into the 21st century," he said, "and I'm excited about going along for the ride" ... Illinois Judicial Circuit Judge Milton S. Wharton will helm the East St. Louis Branch of the NAACP's dinner on Oct. 8 at the Regal Riverfront Hotel. Supreme Court Chief Justice Moses W. Harrison will be keynote speaker. For more info, call 618-271-4698. ... The board of directors of the Chatillon-DeMenil Mansion has assembled our town's largest collection of 1904 World's Fair memorabilia to highlight its Oct. 13 fund-raiser on behalf of some of the most distinguished examples of Greek Revival architecture. Party co-chairs Sara Tetley and Steve Shepley promise cocktails, dinner and dancing. Tetley has the details at 314-231-7318. ... Rams Park in Earth City will be hopping on Oct. 14, when Giant Steps, the agency that helps children with autism, holds its dinner auction, chaired by the team's senior veep Bob Wallace and Clayco's Bob Clark. ... The Sacred Heart Villa's "Heartfelt Thanks" awards dinner and auction will be held Nov. 12 at The Cedars and will be helmed by Mimi and Joe Lordo. A hunt is on for items to go under the gavel. For more info, call 314-647-1124.  

PRESSING ON: Rhode Island Congressman Patrick Kennedy, whose teen-idol good looks belie his role as a top strategist for the Democrats' campaign to win a majority in the U.S. House of Representatives, was scheduled to stump for Dem Steve Carroll this weekend in Columbia, Mo. Carroll is vying for the congressional seat now held by GOP Kenny Hulshof. ... Bryan Cave barrister Linda Martinez was glad-handed on her 38th natal day by a high-powered crew, including Downtown Now's Tom Reeves, developer Amos Harris, high tech exec Chris Dornfeld, security consultant Patrick McCarthy and Mary Campbell at Court Square's St. Louis Steakhouse.  

QUOTEM: In an article tagged "The top spot is open in 11 states: competition is keen in governor races," Washington Post staff scribe Terry M. Neal reports this week, "Missouri is considered the most competitive and difficult to call, reinforcing the state's image this year as the ultimate political battleground."  

PHOTO | Photo headshots - (Wendy) Wiese, (Donn) Johnson, (John D.) Graham  

Document SLMO000020040606dwa10138s

Search Summary

 Text	((“profit*” same “warning*”) or ("disappoint*" same "result*") or ("decreas*" same "profit*") or ("compan*" same "downturn*") or ("unexpect*" same "loss*"))
 Date	10/01/2000 to 10/31/2000
 Source	All Sources
 Author	All Authors
 Company	All Companies
 Subject	 Not Corporate/Industrial News
 Industry	All Industries
 Region	United States
 Language	English
 Results Found	128
 Timestamp	29 March 2018 10:18


 Page 363 of 363     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

