 
•	  Coca-Cola Trims Staff In Russia After Sales Drop 
•	  T Rowe Price Exec Warns Investing In Index Funds -Report 
•	  Clariant Shares Rise 1.2% On Bargain Hunting >Z.CLT 
•	  UNITED STATES 
•	  Coca-Cola Plans To Fire Some Of Its Staff In Moscow 
•	  Fed Warns Lenders on Lowered Standards --- Banks Are Told Not to Base Moves on High Hopes; Fears on Stock Buybacks 
•	 Sinclair: The future is local.
•	  Allstate Says Profits Will Drop In Third and Fourth Quarters 
•	  Motorola Says Apple Will Have Its G4 Chips "Within Weeks".(Brief Article) 
•	  Around the World's Markets - New York. 
•	  Chicago Tribune Market Report Column 
•	  CORRECTION: Chicago Tribune Market Report Column 
•	 BRIEFING
•	  Group's list of silly suits comes with a message 
•	  TALES OF THE TAPE:Ingram Micro Could Rebound In Long Run 
•	  US SHARES DROP SHARPLY ON DOLLAR-YEN WORRIES. 
•	  U.S. stock index futures fall sharply early. 
•	  U.S. Treasuries end mixed as stocks slide. 
•	  U.S. Treasuries mixed in late trade. 
•	  Apple Computer blames chip shortage for lower earnings outlook 
•	  Share Prices Plunge for Durham, N.C.-Based Pharmaceutical Services Firm 
•	  Banking & Insurance: Floyd Puts European Reinsurers at Risk 
•	 +Contract-Research Cos Dn On Quintiles  Profit Warning
•	  ALL THE NEWS OF THE WORLD. 
•	  European Reinsurers May Feel Impact Of Hurricane Floyd 
•	 Investors Dump Federal Mogul Shares Following  Profit Warning
•	  American Home Officials Sold Shares, Reaping Millions In Profit 
•	 NATION/WORLD
•	  Cabletron Up Late; Co., Intel Unit To Co-Develop Pdts 
•	  Tech, Internet Stks Active After Hours; Covance Untraded 
•	  Chicago Tribune Business Outlook Column 
•	  Daily Mail, London, Market Report 
•	  Danish shares echo overseas rises on U.S.jobs data. 
•	  Loss-Plagued Baptist Foundation of Arizona Undergoes Investigation by Regulators in State 



 Corporate News 
 Coca-Cola Trims Staff In Russia After Sales Drop 

 By Betsy McKay 
Staff Reporter
395 words
30 September 1999
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
3
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 In a sign of the beating it is taking on its big investment in Russia, Coca-Cola Co. said it is cutting 30% of its Moscow staff after a huge drop in sales over the past year. 

 The news prompted analysts to ask whether Coke, which has already issued a profit warning for the third quarter, might take a write-down for Russia, where it has invested $750 million (711 million euros) since 1991. The soft-drink giant's sales volumes in Russia have fallen some 60% since August 1998, according to people close to the company, when the crash of the ruble depleted Russian consumers' savings. 

 Coke's stock price slipped below $50 for the second day in a row, falling 3.7% to close at in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange at $48.875, down $1.875. The stock last closed below $50 on Dec. 20, 1996, closing then at $47.87. 

 A Coke spokesman declined to comment on whether the company will take a write-down because of reduced operations in Russia. The company had said last February that based on its own assessment and discussions with auditors, it didn't believe it would need to write down its Russia assets "at this point in time." 

 A spokesman in Moscow, Alexander Chernov, said that 39 out of about 130 employees, from secretaries to managers, would lose their jobs in the company's head Moscow office, as the past year's drop in sales has forced the company to cut costs. He added, however, that about half of those let go would probably be picked up by a company-owned bottler, which runs eight plants across Russia and has been hiring staff for a new administrative center in Moscow. 

 The downsizing isn't the first for Coke in Russia, where the company and its bottlers currently employ about 6,000 people. Its Moscow bottler sacked about a third of its staff of 900 last year after the ruble fell, and bottlers in the regions also were forced to let some workers go. "We are making adjustments to adapt our business to the economic environment," said Mr. Chernov. "We have to create cost-effectiveness and eliminate redundancies between our new bottling center and regional office." 

Document wsje000020010830dv9u00hl1




 T Rowe Price Exec Warns Investing In Index Funds -Report 

529 words
30 September 1999
15:10
Federal Filings Newswires
FF
English
(c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


FFBN SOURCE: Newspaper
ISSUER: FEDERAL FILINGS BUSINESS NEWS
SYMBOL: X.FFI



        WASHINGTON (FFBN) -- A top executive at T. Rowe Price
Associates, Inc. warned yesterday that investors should be careful about
putting too much of their money into mutual funds that mirror stock indexes,
according to an article in today's Baltimore Sun by Bill Atkinson.
        The article said that those funds, which mimic indexes such as
the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index, have been huge hits with investors.
James S. Riepe, vice chairman of T. Rowe Price Associates, believes that
people need to be very cautious about indexing.  "It is not something you go
into without regard for risk," Riepe said.  The S&P 500 index is being
driven by a narrower group of stocks.  Last year ten stocks accounted for
40% of the index's gains, Riepe noted.
        Riepe worries that investors appear to be counting on getting
big returns, but have little regard for risk, the article said.  "The word
risk has dropped out of the vocabulary," Riepe added.
        The article also noted that larger mutual fund companies such as
Fidelity Investments, Vanguard Group and Janus have been swallowing much of
the new money that is being invested.  Fidelity and Vanguard offer large
index funds while Janus offers growth funds and funds that focus on fast-
growing technology companies.
        T. Rowe Price Associates, on the other hand, sees itself as a
diversified company that has not chased the hot sectors of the stock market.
Riepe said that his company is sticking to its more conservative, low-risk
style.  The article noted that at a T. Rowe Price Associates' annual
investment symposium in Baltimore yesterday, Riepe told financial planners,
401(k) consultants and retirement plan sponsors, "We believe in below-
average risk.  We do, I think, consistently well vs. the competition."
        Brian C. Rogers, president of both the T. Rowe Price Equity
Income Fund and the T. Rowe Price Value Fund said at the symposium that Wall
Street has become short-sighted and harsh with companies that disappoint
investors with weaker-than-expected earnings.  Rogers noted Maytag Corp.
(MYG), whose shares dropped 26% Sept. 10, wiping out $1.3 billion in market
value, after the company warned that its second-half profit would be lower
than expected, the article said.  In addition, Avon Products, Inc.'s (AVP)
shares plunged nearly 28% to $25.8125 yesterday, after warning that fourth-
quarter profit would fall below expectations, the article noted.
        However, Rogers also said that companies such as eToys, Inc.
(ETYS) have been rewarded even though they have no track records.  eToys has
300 employees and one store, and had revenue of $35 million for the first
quarter.  Its market capitalization is $4.5 billion, the article noted.
Rogers said, "There is a lot of very short-term behavior going on.  It's a
crazy world."
-Marc A. Wojno; 202-628-9792
FEDERAL FILINGS CONTACTS: (202) 393-7856 for Editorial,
                          (202) 628-8990 for Newswire Sales,
                          (888) FED-FILE for Technical Support
                          http://www.fedfil.com/


(END) FEDERAL FILINGS-DOW JONES NEWS 09-30-99



10:10


Document ff00000020010827dv9u02bkc




 Clariant Shares Rise 1.2% On Bargain Hunting >Z.CLT 

168 words
30 September 1999
10:03
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 ZURICH (Dow Jones)--Shares of Swiss specialty chemicals group Clariant (Z.CLT) are rising on bargain hunting in a flat market early Thursday, traders said. 

 At 0834 GMT Clariant shares were up CHF8, or 1.2%, at CHF683, while the Swiss Market Index was down 0.2%. 

 Clariant shares fell sharply following a profit warning by Union Carbide Corp. (UK) last week, but investor interest in the specialty chemicals sector was renewed Wednesday, pushing the shares up 1%. 

 "Clariant seems to be recovering from its recent sell-off after Union Carbide issued a profit warning," a Zurich-based trader said. "The big sellers have evaporated, and bargain hunters are moving in after deciding the company's shares were oversold." 

 Shares of rival Ciba Specialty Chemicals Holding Inc. (Z.CSC) also were bucking the downward trend, rising CHF0.25 to CHF113.25. 

 -By Laura Dietrich; 41 1 212 2181 

 (END) DOW JONES NEWS  09-30-99 

 05:03 AM 

Document dj00000020010827dv9u06f50




WHAT'S NEWS
 Report on Business: The Wall Street Journal 
 UNITED STATES 

Wall Street Journal
95 words
29 September 1999
The Globe and Mail
GLOB
Metro
B12
English
"All material copyright Bell Globemedia Publishing Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. "

 The U.S. Federal Reserve, worried that the strong economy may lead banks to lower loan standards, is warning lenders against basing their decisions on "aggressive or optimistic" expectations of future profit. In a letter from the office of supervision and regulation, the Fed told its examiners to review banks for "undue reliance on favourable assumptions about borrowers or the economy and financial markets." Overly optimistic institutions should be considered for a downgrade of their supervisory ratings, the Fed said. 

Document glob000020010827dv9t01eey




 Coca-Cola Plans To Fire Some Of Its Staff In Moscow 

622 words
30 September 1999
00:59
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Coca-Cola Co. set cuts in its Moscow staff following a huge drop in sales in Russia during the past year, promoting concerns among analysts about a possible write-down of some its large investment in that country. 

 The soft-drink company's sales volumes in Russia have fallen about 60% since August 1998, according to people close to the company, when the crash of the ruble depleted Russian consumers' savings. 

 Coke said in February that based on its own assessment and discussions with auditors, it didn't believe it would need to write down its Russian assets "at this point in time." 

 But news of the job cuts prompted already jittery analysts to ask whether Coke, which has already issued a profit warning for the third quarter, might take a write-down for Russia, where it has invested $750 million since 1991. 

 Some analysts said they think a write-down for Russia is possible despite Coke's earlier assertion. "It's certainly possible that a year into this crisis, Coke, on further analysis, could decide that indeed there is some impairment," said Marc Cohen, an analyst with Goldman Sachs & Co. 

 A Coke spokesman in Atlanta declined to comment on whether the company plans to take a write-down due to reduced operations in Russia. Coke's shares closed down $1.875 to $48.875 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, well off the 52-week high of $75.4375. The stock last closed below $50 on Dec. 20, 1996, when it fell to $47.87. 

 The drop came amid warnings from Avon Products Inc. and Gillette Co. of sales weakness in several markets, including some overseas. Analysts said the warnings worried Coke investors by providing another reminder that economic problems internationally are cutting into U.S. corporations' earnings. 

 In Moscow, Coke spokesman Alexander Chernov said that 39 out of about 130 employees, from secretaries to managers, would lose their jobs in the company's Moscow head office, as the past year's drop in sales has forced the company to cut costs. He said that about half of those let go would probably be picked up by a company-owned bottler that has opened an administrative office in Moscow. 

 The downsizing isn't the first for Coke in Russia, where the company and its bottlers employ about 6,000 people. Its Moscow bottler sacked about a third of its staff of 900 last year after the ruble fell, and bottlers in the regions also were forced to let some workers go. "We are making adjustments to adapt our business to the economic environment," Chernov said. "We have to create cost-effectiveness and eliminate redundancies between our new bottling center and regional office." 

 The cutbacks in Moscow and worries over a possible charge represent only the latest bad news for Coke. Investors had been looking for an upturn in earnings in the second half of this year, after turmoil in overseas economies and a huge product recall in Europe caused poor returns and a drop in world-wide unit case volume, a central measure of the industry, in the first two quarters of the year. 

 But a profit warning earlier this month dashed those hopes. Analysts expect the company to report earnings of 32 cents a diluted share, well below a consensus a month ago of 36 cents, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. Standard & Poor's also recently placed Coke and two of its bottlers on credit watch for a possible downgrade, citing a rise in the level of debt following acquisitions. 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020329dv9t03r9m




 Economy 
 Fed Warns Lenders on Lowered Standards --- Banks Are Told Not to Base Moves on High Hopes; Fears on Stock Buybacks 

 By Tristan Mabry and Jacob M. Schlesinger 
Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
820 words
29 September 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
A2
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 WASHINGTON -- Worried that the strong economy may lead banks to lower loan standards, the Federal Reserve is warning lenders against basing their decisions on "aggressive or optimistic" expectations of future profit. 

 In a letter from the office of supervision and regulation, the Fed told its examiners to review banks for "undue reliance on favorable assumptions about borrowers or the economy and financial markets." Overly optimistic institutions should be considered for a downgrade of their supervisory ratings, the Fed said. 

 The other major federal bank regulator, the Treasury Department's Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, is expected to issue a similar warning tomorrow when it releases its annual survey of bank-loan quality. Comptroller John D. Hawke Jr. offered his own take on commercial-credit quality last week, noting that "even though many of these loans are currently performing, we're beginning to see rising levels of missed payments, defaults and bankruptcies among corporate borrowers." 

 In another sign of concern about overoptimism in the financial system, two Fed economists are circulating a research paper suggesting that the stock market may be propped up by companies buying back their own shares at an unsustainable pace. A sharp reduction in corporate share buybacks could lead to a drop in stock prices ranging from 32% to 38%, the economists say. 

 Officials said that the research doesn't represent the Fed's official economic forecasts and isn't shaping Fed policy. But it does reflect the interest inside the central bank about what is driving the stock market and what could bring it down. 

 Financial markets themselves may be contributing to the decline in credit quality among commercial lenders. Some industry observers believe banks require looser guarantees from corporate borrowers than they did a few years ago, in part because the banks face enormous pressure from Wall Street to continue posting double-digit increases in earnings. 

 "There continue to be a lot of banks chasing a limited number of deals, so people start to structure them to meet their income numbers and their bonus numbers," said Robert Bostrom, head of the financial-institutions practice at law firm Winston & Strawn in New York. "It's the age-old conflict between regulators' desire for banks to be sound and the market's demand for profits and return on equity," a closely watched measure of bank profitability. 

 Still, some analysts note that the Fed is issuing a caution, not announcing a crisis. The Fed is "not saying that there is about to be a significant credit-quality disaster," said David Berry, research director at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, a New York investment bank. "From our conversations, the banks feel pretty comfortable with their credit," he said. 

 According to Mr. Berry's firm, the nation's 50 largest bank holding companies at the end of the second quarter had a total of $18.5 billion in nonperforming loans, or 0.82% of the total loan portfolio. That was down from $19 billion, or 0.85% of loans, at the end of the first quarter. But compared with the year before, the picture looks slightly worse. At the end of the second quarter of 1998, nonperforming loans at the 50 largest bank holding companies totaled $15.4 billion, or 0.72% of all loans. 

 While bank examiners are urged to err on the side of caution, other Fed officials are keeping a close watch on financial markets. The research paper completed last week on stock values and corporate share repurchases, written by two members of the Fed's Washington research staff, J. Nellie Liang and Steven A. Sharpe, is part of the Federal Reserve's heightened scrutiny of the topic. 

 The basic premise of the paper is that companies probably can't keep buying back their own shares at the same rapid pace of recent years, in part because executives and employees are expected to start cashing in stock options at a much faster rate. That would significantly raise the company's cost of shrinking their number of shares outstanding. The researchers estimate that the rate of net-share reductions will fall from the current 1% to as low as 0.2%. More shares outstanding means lower earnings per share, which in turn could hit stock prices. 

 Some analysts said, however, that other factors could damp the depressing impact of such a trend. Among them, executives would likely stop cashing in on options if the market fell. "Option holders are pretty rational," said Rick Escherich, head of merger and acquisition research at J.P. Morgan & Co. "They sell when they're high and they typically have ten years to think about it." 

 --- 

 Paul Beckett in New York contributed to this article. 

Document j000000020010828dv9t00r09


Sinclair: The future is local.

Steve McClellan 
371 words
27 September 1999
Broadcasting & Cable
BDCTCA
12
ISSN: 1068-6827; Volume 129; Issue 40
English
(c) 1999 Information Access Company. All rights reserved. 

Sinclair found itself in Wall Street's doghouse again last week, after telling analysts that profit margins are going to drop for the foreseeable future. The warning came as the company ramps up spending to implement a new local marketing and sales strategy.

The main objective: adjust the mix of local and national advertising, so that, by 2006, local sales account for 75% of advertising revenue and national for 25%. The current split is about 51% local, 49% national.

Sinclair said that pro forma 1999 broadcast cash flow would be down 2% to 3%, while revenue would be up just 1%. The company expects fourth-quarter broadcast cash flow to drop 9%, as it increases capital spending to boost marketing, promotion and sales efforts at its stations.

Several major Wall Street firms downgraded the company's stock, including Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs and Merrill Lynch. The last also cut its earnings expectations for the company next year by almost 25%. Sinclair stock fell 33%, to $10.50, on Sept. 22 on word of the developments.

In a conference call with analysts last week, Sinclair TV Division Chief Barry Drake blamed past management for cutting expenses to hit quarterly financial targets. As a result, said Drake, many of the company's TV stations are not marketing and promoting aggressively enough and haven't had enough sales people in the field, nor sales support and research tools to back those efforts.

According to Drake, local TV sales staffs, already on straight commission, will be increased by 50% or more in some markets. News programming will also be expanded in a number of markets, said Drake, while children's programming is "de-emphasized."

But the spending will have an impact on Sinclair's broadcast cash flow margin, which was 51% in 1998, and which is expected to drop to between 47% and 48% in 2000, said CEO Patrick Talamentes.

Sinclair's push for local dollars comes amid a continuing stagnant market for national spots. "The local market, in my view, is truly infinite," said Drake. "As long as newspapers can generate $45 billion in revenue, I don't ever see us maxing out on local." 

FULL TEXT

Document bdctca0020010825dv9r0013i




 Business/Financial Desk; Section C 
 Allstate Says Profits Will Drop In Third and Fourth Quarters 

Reuters
587 words
25 September 1999
The New York Times
NYTF
Page 4, Column 1
English
(c) 1999 New York Times Company

 CHICAGO, Sept. 24 -- The Allstate Corporation said today that its profits for the rest of the year would fall from the levels of a year earlier and would not meet expectations, because of pricing pressures and higher losses from Hurricane Floyd and other catastrophes. 

 The announcement sent shares of Allstate and other insurance companies tumbling. 

 Allstate, the second-biggest home and car insurer in the United States, said its third-quarter operating profit, which excludes special items, would be in the range of 50 cents to 55 cents a share, well shy of the First Call/Thomson Financial market expectation of 78 cents. 

 The company said its fourth-quarter operating profit should range from 65 cents to 73 cents a share, compared with the consensus forecast of 81 cents. 

 ''Intense competition in the personal lines industry coupled with a rise in the cost of doing business is putting pressure on our near-term earnings,'' Allstate's chief executive, Edward M. Liddy, said in a statement. 

 Shares of Allstate were down $3.50, to $28.25, after posting a new 52-week low of $25.75. 

 The news from Allstate took shares of other insurers with similar business down as well. 

 Shares of the Ohio-based Progressive Corporation, which issued its own third-quarter profit warning a month ago, fell $7.375, to $84.50. The New York-based American International Group Inc. lost $1.50, to $88.8125. 

 Including income from investments but excluding acquisition-related charges, Allstate said its net income would be 70 cents to 75 cents a share for the third quarter, down from 86 cents last year. Fourth-quarter net income, meanwhile, could fall to a range of 76 cents to 84 cents a share from 93 cents in 1998. 

 Michael Lewis, an insurance industry analyst at Warburg Dillon Read, said he had lowered his investment rating on Allstate because of the intense competition in the auto insurance business and because he did not expect the environment to improve anytime soon. 

 ''There still appears to be a game going on for market share'' in auto insurance, Mr. Lewis said. ''When they ease up, no one knows.'' 

 In addition to catastrophe losses, Allstate said higher technology spending, a costly advertising campaign, additional reserves for asbestos-related losses and a decline in average premiums contributed to the lower profit forecast. 

 An insurance industry group estimated today that insured damage from Hurricane Floyd, which struck virtually the entire East Coast, would be $1.3 billion. 

 A spokesman for Allstate, Peter Debreceny, said the company had increased its marketing spending this year by $40 million or $50 million, to roughly $140 million. 

 ''We are determined to improve our growth opportunities organically,'' Mr. Debreceny said. ''We're going to be investing significantly more in advertising to protect and reinforce our brand awareness.'' 

 Allstate is reviewing the cost structure, business model and pricing competitiveness of its core business. The review will close in the fourth quarter, after which the company plans to announce what actions it will take to increase its financial performance. 

 When asked whether job cuts would be considered as part of the review, Mr. Debreceny said, ''Everything's on the table.'' 

 Allstate said its growth opportunities had been broadened by its alliance with Putnam Investments to sell variable annuity products and by its acquisitions of the CNA Financial Corporation's personal lines business and the American Heritage Life Investment Corporation. 

Document nytf000020010828dv9p01go2


 Motorola Says Apple Will Have Its G4 Chips "Within Weeks".(Brief Article) 

234 words
23 September 1999
Computergram International
CGIN
ISSN: 0268-716X; Issue 3753
English
Copyright 1999 Gale Group Inc. All rights reserved.

 Motorola Inc, which was blamed by Apple Computer Inc for not being able to supply it with enough G4 chips for its newest desktop computer - which led the hardware manufacturer to issue a fourth-quarter profitwarning earlier this week - says it will get the chips to Apple soon. Will Swearingen, Motorola's Power PC marketing director, told USA Today that the company will fulfill its delivery goals of 400- and 450-MHz processors "within weeks, not months." 

 There are reportedly no technical problems with the production of the chips and the company also pledged that the 500-MHz version will be available "soon" although it would be no more specific. In a statement earlier this week, Motorola said "We're thrilled with the overwhelming and positive response in the marketplace for the PowerMac G4. This response has made it difficult for us to provide as many of the G4 chips as Apple can currently use." 

 As for the impact of the shortage on Motorola, analysts at investment bank Warburg Dillon Read said, "regardless of the cause, we believe the impact of this situation on Motorola's third-quarter revenues and earnings will be immaterial and more than offset by strong sales and earnings in other areas of the semiconductor division." The bank reiterated its "buy" rating on Motorola shares. 

FULL TEXT

Document cgin000020010826dv9n006ir




 Around the World's Markets - New York. 

85 words
22 September 1999
The Independent - London
IND
17
English
(c) 1999 Independent Newspapers (UK) Limited . All rights reserved. This material may not be published, distributed or exploited in any way.

 STOCKS SLUMPED by midday, hit by bad news that included a record US trade deficit, the rising yen and profit warning from Apple Computer. The Dow was off 171 at 10.652, while the hi-tech heavy Nasdaq index fell 31 to 2,853. After the market closed on Monday, Apple issued a surprise statement, warning that its fourth-quarter income would not meet expectations because Motorola could not make enough chips for the Apple PowerMac G4 computers. 

Document ind0000020010906dv9m00a5y


 Chicago Tribune Market Report Column 

 Bill Barnhart 
1,385 words
22 September 1999
KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Chicago Tribune - Illinois
KRTBN
English
Copyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)

 A directionless stock market, easily buffeted by crosswinds, tripped Tuesday on a few arcane -- yet potentially ominous --developments in global financial markets. 

 Stock prices fell broadly in moderate trading, recording the biggest point drop in the Dow Jones industrial average since late May. 

 But Treasury bonds remained fairly steady, indicating that Tuesday's slump by the dollar against the yen did not spark concerted selling of U.S. bonds. Such dumping of bonds could inspire a more serious stock market downturn. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 225.43 points, or 2.1 percent, to 10,598.47, on New York Stock Exchange floor volume of 785 million shares. Only two of the 30 Dow industrials -- McDonald's and United Technologies -- managed to post gains. 

 Among the day's biggest Dow 30 losers was Goodrich Tire, which sank $4.62, to $47.31, after J.P. Morgan warned of disappointing third-quarter profits by the tiremaker, citing weak overseas sales and the continuing high cost of reorganizing its U.S. manufacturing operations. 

 Morgan said Goodrich likely would issue its own profit warning, but the company declined to make any statement Tuesday. Investor nervousness about third-quarter profits is undergoing a typical crescendo as the quarter ends, even though the consensus of analysts foresees generally robust profits in the period. 

 Among broader indexes, the Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 27.95, or 2.1 percent, to 1307.58. Losing stocks swamped winners by more than a 3-to-1 ratio among NYSE-listed issues. 

 The Nasdaq composite index, which on Monday came within a point of its record high, sank 65.05, or 2.2 percent, to 2821.10. The Russell 2000 index of small-company stocks dropped 6.70, or 1.5 percent, to 426.50. 

 A profit warning late Monday by Apple Computer plus the major earthquake in Taiwan, where many computer products are manufactured, put the Nasdaq market in a bad mood from Tuesday's opening. Apple fell $9.81, to $69.25. 

 But after the close of Tuesday's Nasdaq session, computer networking equipment maker 3Com posted better-than-expected results for its fiscal first quarter, and its shares climbed in after-hours electronic trading. 

 On the Big Board, America Online gained $2.06, to $84.87, as the most-active NYSE stock after the company said it expects to post a record number of subscribers in its fiscal first quarter for America Online and its sister service, CompuServe 2000. 

 "We certainly have a market that is trading very poorly, and that's probably understating it," said Gregory Nie, technical market analyst for Everen Securities in Chicago. Breadth statistics, or the daily ratio of gaining stocks to losing stocks, "continue to be putrid, but that's not new news," he said. 

 "The market last Wednesday faded around the disappointment that we weren't running ahead with the friendly news on the CPI," Nie said, referring to the benign consumer price index for August. "Now, it's unease with the currency situation and a very plausible chain of events that are being wrestled with by the market." 

 Japan's central bank, in an apparent display of its independence from the Japanese government, declined to take action Tuesday to curtail the rising yen or stimulate the domestic economy -- a decision that surprise global traders. Similarly, the record U.S. trade deficit announced Tuesday was unexpected. 

 Together, the news suggested strong demand by U.S. consumers for imports and an apparent unwillingesss by Japanese authorities to reciprocate by boosting Japanese consumer demand. In the worst-case scenario, these trends hint at inflation in the U.S. and weak markets for U.S. goods and services overseas. 

 "If the Japanese central bank is not going to do things domestically to hold up their end of the bargain to keep their economy on board, it raises the specter of repatriation of funds back to Japan," Nie said. "And that means it's going to come out of the dollar. And if it's going to come out of the dollar, it's going to come out of our financial markets. There's a lot of logic to it." 

 Nonetheless, Nie said he believes stocks remain within their recent trading range of 10,500 to 11,100 on the Dow. "I think we have a fighting chance to stay within the band," he said, noting that trading volume remains unexciting. 

 Moreover, none of the day's developments eroded the basic fundamentals that have sustained upbeat stock market conditions for several years. 

 "We're getting inundated with so many things to consider, it's clouding the big picture, said Alan Skrainka, chief market strategist for Edward Jones in St. Louis. "I think `arcane' is a very accurate way to describe it. If you're a long-term investor, these are the days you look forward to" as buying opportunities. 

 For example, he said, smart investors were buying Apple Computer after the company said late Monday it could not sell as many laptop computers as customers were demanding. 

 On the other hand, Nie and Skrainka were wary of the bond market, where prices have fallen and interest rates have risen for much of the year. 

 Nie said if the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond December futures contract at the Chicago Board of Trade breaks below a price of $112.50 per $100 of face value, it would spell trouble for the stock market. The contract hit $113.25 during the day Tuesday. 

 "The bond market will act as a brake on the economy," Skrainka said. 

 "Is the (weaker dollar) going to be the excuse for a breakdown in bonds, and is that going to spill over into equities?" Nie asked. "If we see the bond contract break down, that raises the prospect of higher interest rates and a real headache for equities." 

 GOLD GLITTERS: Gold rose $6 an ounce, to $261.80 -- a one month high -- in New York futures trading after Tuesday's gold auction by the Bank of England sparked brisk demand. England's central bank, in the second of five gold auctions, sold 25 metric tons of gold for $225.20 an ounce. Traders applauded the demand but noted that the prospect of future auctions is keeping gold prices depressed. 

 With the rise in the price of gold, the index of gold and silver mining stocks traded at the American Stock Exchange jumped 6.6 percent Tuesday. 

 LOCAL NEWS: Investment managers behind the strong-performing Chicago-based Alleghany/Chicago Trust Growth & Income Fund have jumped ship to Minneapolis-based Voyageur Asset Management. Voyageur, a unit of Dougherty Financial Group, manages about $7 billion for institutional clients and high net worth individuals but does not advise mutual funds. 

 Charles Henderson, chief investment officer, David Cox, director of research, and portfolio managers Jerold Stodden and Nancy Scinto have resigned from Chicago Trust. Through August, the Growth & Income Fund recorded a 12-month total return of 48.5 percent, beating the 39.8 percent return for the benchmark Standard & Poor's 500 index. 

 Alleghany Asset Management, parent of Chicago Trust and a unit of Alleghany Corp., said Bernard Myszkowski, a portfolio manager at Chicago Trust, was named senior vice president and chief equity officer. He will manage the Alleghany/Chicago Trust Growth & Income Fund and co-manage the firm's balanced fund. 

 -- The Chicago Stock Exchange filed its proposal with the Securities and Exchange Commission to stage a late trading session from 3:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. Central time for several hundred large-capitalization stocks. Robert Forney, exchange president, said he asked the SEC to accelerate its review of the application but the exchange will not begin the late session on Oct. 1, as proposed last month. The New York Stock Exchange has postponed until sometime next year its possible introduction of a late trading session. 

 -- Delphi Information Systems, Rolling Meadows, a developer of software products for insurance companies, agents and brokers plans to change its name this fall to Ebix.com. The company also plans to refocus its operations toward Internet-based services for insurance consumers as as well as insurance professionals. The company's stock slipped 25 cents, to $6.50. 

Document krtbn00020010828dv9m01shb


 CORRECTION: Chicago Tribune Market Report Column 

 Bill Barnhart 
1,414 words
22 September 1999
KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Chicago Tribune - Illinois
KRTBN
English
Copyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)

 EDITORS: This is a corrected version of TB-WALL-COL moved earlier by KRT Business News. Corrects company names in fifth and sixth grafs. 

 Sep. 22--A directionless stock market, easily buffeted by crosswinds, tripped Tuesday on a few arcane -- yet potentially ominous -- developments in global financial markets. 

 Stock prices fell broadly in moderate trading, recording the biggest point drop in the Dow Jones industrial average since late May. 

 But Treasury bonds remained fairly steady, indicating that Tuesday's slump by the dollar against the yen did not spark concerted selling of U.S. bonds. Such dumping of bonds could inspire a more serious stock market downturn. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 225.43 points, or 2.1 percent, to 10,598.47, on New York Stock Exchange floor volume of 785 million shares. Only two of the 30 Dow industrials -- McDonald's and United Technologies -- managed to post gains. 

 Among the day's biggest Dow 30 losers was Goodyear Tire & Rubber, which sank $4.62, to $47.31, after J.P. Morgan warned of disappointing third-quarter profits by the tiremaker, citing weak overseas sales and the continuing high cost of reorganizing its U.S. manufacturing operations. 

 Morgan said Goodyear likely would issue its own profit warning, but the company declined to make any statement Tuesday. Investor nervousness about third-quarter profits is undergoing a typical crescendo as the quarter ends, even though the consensus of analysts foresees generally robust profits in the period. 

 Among broader indexes, the Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 27.95, or 2.1 percent, to 1307.58. Losing stocks swamped winners by more than a 3-to-1 ratio among NYSE-listed issues. 

 The Nasdaq composite index, which on Monday came within a point of its record high, sank 65.05, or 2.2 percent, to 2821.10. The Russell 2000 index of small-company stocks dropped 6.70, or 1.5 percent, to 426.50. 

 A profit warning late Monday by Apple Computer plus the major earthquake in Taiwan, where many computer products are manufactured, put the Nasdaq market in a bad mood from Tuesday's opening. Apple fell $9.81, to $69.25. 

 But after the close of Tuesday's Nasdaq session, computer networking equipment maker 3Com posted better-than-expected results for its fiscal first quarter, and its shares climbed in after-hours electronic trading. 

 On the Big Board, America Online gained $2.06, to $84.87, as the most-active NYSE stock after the company said it expects to post a record number of subscribers in its fiscal first quarter for America Online and its sister service, CompuServe 2000. 

 "We certainly have a market that is trading very poorly, and that's probably understating it," said Gregory Nie, technical market analyst for Everen Securities in Chicago. Breadth statistics, or the daily ratio of gaining stocks to losing stocks, "continue to be putrid, but that's not new news," he said. 

 "The market last Wednesday faded around the disappointment that we weren't running ahead with the friendly news on the CPI," Nie said, referring to the benign consumer price index for August. "Now, it's unease with the currency situation and a very plausible chain of events that are being wrestled with by the market." 

 Japan's central bank, in an apparent display of its independence from the Japanese government, declined to take action Tuesday to curtail the rising yen or stimulate the domestic economy -- a decision that surprise global traders. Similarly, the record U.S. trade deficit announced Tuesday was unexpected. 

 Together, the news suggested strong demand by U.S. consumers for imports and an apparent unwillingesss by Japanese authorities to reciprocate by boosting Japanese consumer demand. In the worst-case scenario, these trends hint at inflation in the U.S. and weak markets for U.S. goods and services overseas. 

 "If the Japanese central bank is not going to do things domestically to hold up their end of the bargain to keep their economy on board, it raises the specter of repatriation of funds back to Japan," Nie said. "And that means it's going to come out of the dollar. And if it's going to come out of the dollar, it's going to come out of our financial markets. There's a lot of logic to it." 

 Nonetheless, Nie said he believes stocks remain within their recent trading range of 10,500 to 11,100 on the Dow. "I think we have a fighting chance to stay within the band," he said, noting that trading volume remains unexciting. 

 Moreover, none of the day's developments eroded the basic fundamentals that have sustained upbeat stock market conditions for several years. 

 "We're getting inundated with so many things to consider, it's clouding the big picture, said Alan Skrainka, chief market strategist for Edward Jones in St. Louis. "I think `arcane' is a very accurate way to describe it. If you're a long-term investor, these are the days you look forward to" as buying opportunities. 

 For example, he said, smart investors were buying Apple Computer after the company said late Monday it could not sell as many laptop computers as customers were demanding. 

 On the other hand, Nie and Skrainka were wary of the bond market, where prices have fallen and interest rates have risen for much of the year. 

 Nie said if the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond December futures contract at the Chicago Board of Trade breaks below a price of $112.50 per $100 of face value, it would spell trouble for the stock market. The contract hit $113.25 during the day Tuesday. 

 "The bond market will act as a brake on the economy," Skrainka said. 

 "Is the (weaker dollar) going to be the excuse for a breakdown in bonds, and is that going to spill over into equities?" Nie asked. "If we see the bond contract break down, that raises the prospect of higher interest rates and a real headache for equities." 

 GOLD GLITTERS: Gold rose $6 an ounce, to $261.80 -- a one month high -- in New York futures trading after Tuesday's gold auction by the Bank of England sparked brisk demand. England's central bank, in the second of five gold auctions, sold 25 metric tons of gold for $225.20 an ounce. Traders applauded the demand but noted that the prospect of future auctions is keeping gold prices depressed. 

 With the rise in the price of gold, the index of gold and silver mining stocks traded at the American Stock Exchange jumped 6.6 percent Tuesday. 

 LOCAL NEWS: Investment managers behind the strong-performing Chicago-based Alleghany/Chicago Trust Growth & Income Fund have jumped ship to Minneapolis-based Voyageur Asset Management. Voyageur, a unit of Dougherty Financial Group, manages about $7 billion for institutional clients and high net worth individuals but does not advise mutual funds. 

 Charles Henderson, chief investment officer, David Cox, director of research, and portfolio managers Jerold Stodden and Nancy Scinto have resigned from Chicago Trust. Through August, the Growth & Income Fund recorded a 12-month total return of 48.5 percent, beating the 39.8 percent return for the benchmark Standard & Poor's 500 index. 

 Alleghany Asset Management, parent of Chicago Trust and a unit of Alleghany Corp., said Bernard Myszkowski, a portfolio manager at Chicago Trust, was named senior vice president and chief equity officer. He will manage the Alleghany/Chicago Trust Growth & Income Fund and co-manage the firm's balanced fund. 

 -- The Chicago Stock Exchange filed its proposal with the Securities and Exchange Commission to stage a late trading session from 3:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. Central time for several hundred large-capitalization stocks. Robert Forney, exchange president, said he asked the SEC to accelerate its review of the application but the exchange will not begin the late session on Oct. 1, as proposed last month. The New York Stock Exchange has postponed until sometime next year its possible introduction of a late trading session. 

 -- Delphi Information Systems, Rolling Meadows, a developer of software products for insurance companies, agents and brokers plans to change its name this fall to Ebix.com. The company also plans to refocus its operations toward Internet-based services for insurance consumers as as well as insurance professionals. The company's stock slipped 25 cents, to $6.50. 

Document krtbn00020010828dv9m01sg2




TUE
BRIEFING

1,206 words
21 September 1999
The Denver Post
DNVR
BIZ
C-02
English
Copyright © 1999 The Denver Post Corp. Distributed by NewsBank, Inc.   

Local

SATELLITE LAUNCH POSTPONED AGAIN: A satellite launch by EchoStar Communications Corp. has been delayed yet again, the Littleton-based company announced Monday. EchoStar V has been postponed until early Thursday because of adverse weather at Cape Canaveral, Fla. The Loral satellite, atop an Atlas rocket built by Lockheed Martin, has been delayed several times this month because of technical problems and the recent hurricane along the East Coast. Once launched, the EchoStar satellite is intended to allow the company's Dish Network to provide 150 more satellite TV channels, including digital feeds of broadcast channels in local markets. (The Denver Post)

MULTI-LINK TO BUY HELLYER: Multi-Link Telecommunications, a Denver provider of voice-messaging services for small and medium-sized businesses, said Monday that it has agreed to buy Hellyer Communications of Indianapolis for $3.6 million. Privately held Hellyer supplies voice messaging, paging, mobile telephone and telephone consulting services to both business and residential customers in Indianapolis, Chicago and Detroit. Multi-Link said the combination will triple the size of the company and allow it to expand into "key" midwestern markets. (The Denver Post)

JONES INTERCABLE SHAREHOLDER MEETING POSTPONED: Jones Intercable Inc., the cable provider controlled by Comcast Corp., said it postponed its annual shareholder meeting because of a clerical error committed by its stock transfer agent. The meeting, which had been scheduled for Sept. 23, will be held Oct. 22 at the company's offices in Philadelphia. The agent, ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, mailed the wrong proxy cards to shareholders who own Class A common stock and common stock, Jones said. In August, No. 3 cable provider Comcast said it would double its stake in Jones for about $840 million in stock, taking advantage of the recent decline of Jones shares. Comcast in April bought 39 percent of Jones. (Bloomberg)

Nation/World

QUAKER OATS MAY CUT 1,200 JOBS: Quaker Oats Co. disclosed plans Monday to streamline U.S. and Canadian operations as part of a three-year project it said could result in the loss of 1,200 jobs - a tenth of its workforce. Those ultimately laid off may want to blame the runaway success of Gatorade, the nation's leading sports drink with sales of $1.3 billion a year. The Chicago-based food and beverage giant, which also makes Quaker cereals and Rice-A-Roni, said much of the savings from themove will be plowed into an expansion of beverage manufacturing and capital improvements associated with Gatorade. (AP)

SMALL-CAP STOCKS RISE: The Nasdaq Composite Index rose Monday, led by Sun Microsystems Inc. after the maker of computer services announced its second stock split this year. The Standard & Poor's 500 Index was little changed as the dollar retreated against the yen. The Nasdaq rose 17.99, or 0.6 percent, to 2887.61 in late trading, adding to Friday's 2.2 percent gain. The Standard & Poor's 500 Index fell 0.64 to 1334.78. The Dow Jones industrial average was unchanged at 10,803.63. Sun,the No. 4 maker of computer servers, gained 5 5/16 to 94 and was the biggest gainer in the Nasdaq 100, after announcing a 2-for-1 stock split. Shares of Sun, which is expanding its Colorado presence, have more than tripled in the past 12 months. (Bloomberg)

WAL-MART CONSIDERS COMPUTER REPAIR: Wal-Mart Stores Inc. is testing consumer interest in having their computers repaired or upgraded at the same place they shop for linens, toiletries and milk. The retailing giant has contracted with Computer Doctor to open repair and sales outlets in the front of 10 Wal-Mart Supercenters. Wal-Mart says the experimental outlets will open during the next 18 months. If the experiment works, the company could look to any number of computer businesses to offer services within the walls of its 622 Supercenters. (AP)

MICROSOFT CASE CLOSING ARGUMENTS SET: Microsoft Corp. and the government return for a single day's closing arguments today to the courtroom where they have waged a historic antitrust fight since late last year. Lawyers for the sides will summarize the case each has tried to assemble through 76 days of testimony prior to U.S. District Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson's first part of a two-phase verdict. That decision, containing the judge's factual findings, could come as early as next month. It is widely expected to suggest the eventual final verdict, which probably will come early next year unless the sides settle. In court documents filed in recent weeks, Microsoft and the government already have largely outlined arguments theywill make to the judge, who limited the sides to 21/2 hours each. (AP)

APPLE BLAMES CHIP SHORTAGE: Apple Computer Inc. said it will report lower fiscal fourth-quarter earnings because it didn't get enough G4 chips from Motorola Inc. to fill orders for its newest machines. The warning sent its shares down 12 percent. Earnings in the period ending this month will be $75 million to $85 million. Analysts expected profit of 76 cents a share, according to First Call Corp. A year ago, Apple earned $106 million, or 68 cents, on sales of $1.56 billion. The lowerearnings are a setback for interim Chief Executive Steve Jobs, who has presided over seven quarters of rising profit as he restructured and revived the personal computer maker. Apple said it will sell only about half as many G4 machines as expected. (Bloomberg)

AUTO AIR-BAG MAKER FILES CHAPTER 11: Breed Technologies Inc., the No. 3 maker of automobile air bags, filed for Chapter 11 protection from its creditors after suffering continued losses that forced it lay off more than 5,000 workers in two years. Lakeland, Fla.-based Breed listed $1.32 billion in assets and $1.64 billion in debts in documents filed late today in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington. The company, which had operations in 14 countries, said in June that it might have to sell its assets. Breed posted seven straight quarterly losses and cut about a quarter of its workforce following debt-payment problems related to the purchase of nine businesses since 1995. (Bloomberg)

SHORT-TERM RATES MIXED: Interest rates on short-term Treasury securities were mixed in Monday's auction. The Treasury Department sold $6.5 billion in three-month bills at a discount rate of 4.660 percent, unchanged from the same rate last week, which had been the lowest since July 26. An additional $7.5 billion was sold in six-month bills at a rate of 4.890 percent, down from 4.925 percent. The six-month rate was the lowest since Aug. 2, when the rate was 4.750. The new discount ratesunderstate the actual return to investors - 4.794 percent for three-month bills with a $10,000 bill selling for $9,882.20 and 5.097 percent for a six-month bill selling for $9,752.80. In a separate report, the Federal Reserve said Monday that the average yield for one-year Treasury bills, the most popular index for making changes in adjustable rate mortgages, fell to 5.26 percent last week from 5.28 percent the previous week. (AP)

Document DNVR000020150821dv9l0075a




 Group's list of silly suits comes with a message 

409 words
21 September 1999
06:37
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 1999.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.

 DETROIT (AP) - Believing lawsuits should be the last resorts for courts, a Michigan watchdog group has unveiled its list of some it considers downright looney. 

 Consider the case of a convict who sued the state, claiming a Michigan prison's food caused his gross case of flatulence. 

 Or a man who let his two dogs outside, saw them race across a neighbor's lawn and gave chase, only to sue the neighbor when he fell after stepping in a snow-covered fence post hole in the neighbor's lawn. 

 Or the two Alpena businessmen who burned their slow-selling stock in their clothing store to collect on the insurance, then sued their insurer to pay for the damage their fire did to next-door neighbors when the blaze burned past what was intended. 

 All three cases were thrown out of Michigan courts, though the arson case turned into a fight among insurance companies over who had to pay for the neighbors and went all the way to the state Supreme Court. 

 The cases still found their way onto the annual "Looniest Lawsuits of 1999" list issued Monday by Michigan Lawsuit Abuse Watch, or M-LAW, a non-profit group that also sponsors an annual "Wacky Warning Label" contest. 

 "We just believe lawsuits should be the last resort," Robert Dorigo Jones, M-LAW's executive director, told the Detroit Free Press. "In Michigan, a number of tort reforms were passed several years ago that have cut down on some frivolous cases. Now our focus is on the courts... 

 "We'd like the judges to use the discretion they have right now and throw a lot of these cases out and to levy financial sanctions for those who bring lawsuits that are frivolous." 

 M-LAW tends to back those being sued, while the opposition - the Michigan Trial Lawyers Association - tends to support those doing the suing. 

 "Certainly there are what could be some silly-sounding lawsuits filed," said Gary Fralick, spokesman for the lawyers' group. "Does that mean we throw away every American citizen's right to their day in court?" 

 To Fralick, the tragedy of making light of what's happening to the civil justice system "is the far sadder and more important story." 

 "The insurance companies are laughing all the way to the bank with record profits," he said. "They're the only ones who are laughing today." 

Rush

Document aprs000020010829dv9l0apey




 TALES OF THE TAPE:Ingram Micro Could Rebound In Long Run 

 By Anthony Palazzo 
1,023 words
21 September 1999
19:00
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 LOS ANGELES (Dow Jones)--Computer wholesale and distribution is a vicious business. Just ask Ingram Micro Inc. (IM). 

 Even in the best of times, profit margins for Ingram and its peers are razor-thin, and the past year has been far from the best of times. Ingram itself has disappointed Wall Street in two of the past three quarters, and it said earlier this month that the current third quarter will also fall short. Even at a bargain-basement price of about 10 times next year's estimated earnings, investors are deathly afraid of buying it. 

 But while the near term remains uncertain, some analysts believe the stock deserves a look for long-term investors. 

 "We think (the price is) absurdly low. On the other hand, it's an understandable number given what market sentiment is," said Joel Pitt, an analyst with Credit Suisse First Boston. "It may be that the market is in tune with the underlying story," he added, illustrating the caution of even a veteran observer of the sector. 

 A number of analysts downgraded Ingram, of Santa Ana, Calif., to hold after the latest profit warning, but Pitt and some others reaffirmed their buy recommendations as the stock fell as low as 13 5/16 recently - well off a high of 54 5/8 reached one year ago. But Pitt drew the ire of some clients when he added a caveat: He wouldn't be too aggressive about building a position because of near-term uncertainties. "What I'm telling you is, I want you to keep your eye on the sector," Pitt told Dow Jones Newswires. "I want you to keep your eye on the stock, because the value is there." 

 The long-term bullish argument for the stock goes like this: It's still profitable, has a strong balance sheet and is one of two distributors, along with Tech Data Corp. (TECD), that analysts believe is certain to remain standing after all the current turmoil subsides. 

 To be sure, Ingram has its problems. On a conference call Sept. 8, Chairman and Chief Executive Jerre Stead admitted the company lost market share as it tried to "make too many changes too quickly." 


    Sector Problems Abound



There are many reasons for the turmoil that has beset computer
distributors, which are the middlemen between manufacturers and
retailers. Manufacturers, facing brutal price competition and threatened
by the more efficient direct-sales approach, are shifting a greater
share of the risks and burdens of doing business to distributors.



For example, manufacturers are phasing out traditional practices like
price-protection, which safeguards distributors against unexpected price
cuts. Systems manufacturers have also cut back on rebates they award
distributors as incentives for sales volume. And new, high-stakes
contract battles are giving rise to extreme price competition among
distributors.



In the third quarter, Ingram was trying to raise prices on some
products to make up for lower rebate incentives, but customers found
lower-price suppliers. At the same time, price competition was intense
on a new distribution set-up at Compaq Computer Corp. (CPQ) that began
in August.



The Compaq program, which is still rolling out, "had very little
impact on the third quarter," said Kim Strohm, Ingram's vice president
for investor relations.



"There was a lot of initial (pricing) activity around trying to line
up customer relationships," said Jim Illson, president and chief
operating officer of Merisel Inc. (MSEL), one of four distributors left
on Compaq's narrowed-down list. (Along with Ingram, the others are Tech
Data and Inacom Corp. (ICO).) "Some of that has now subsided," Illson
said.



The industry change comes on the heels of 1,400 job cuts that left
Ingram's sales staff and executive ranks depleted. "Had we not done too
much too quickly, we would have maintained market share," Stead said on
the conference call. Tacitly acknowledging he's been stretched too thin,
Stead said he will resign as chief executive - there's no timetable to
pick a new one - but remain chairman.



    Ingram Could Benefit From Industry Woes



But the very changes that threaten Ingram are what some analysts, the
company and even Ingram's competitors believe will end up working to its
advantage. "The industry is changing very rapidly, and in that change
there's a lot of opportunity," said Strohm.



Like Compaq, a growing number of technology manufacturers - like 3Com
Corp. (COMS), Seagate Technology Inc. (SEG) and Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) -
are thinning down their distribution to four, three, even one partner
for order fulfillment. Ingram's global reach and its formidable internal
computer systems, which help it keep track of millions of products and
prices, ensure that Ingram will be a player as long as there is still a
game.



"There are very few customer segments that are not touched by Tech
Data or Ingram Micro in North America and Europe," said Jeff Howells,
Tech Data's chief financial officer. (Ingram, unlike Tech Data, also
operates in Asia.)



At the same time, resellers and retailers that once had direct access
to the manufacturer are now looking for a single-source wholesaler to
supply them with inventory. These new initiatives require significant
investments of time and money that only Ingram and a few other
competitors can pony up. Ingram's logged a number of these outsourcing
deals, including an estimated $10 billion, five-year deal with CompUSA
Inc. (CPU).



Ingram is working on at least 10 significant outsourcing deals with
systems vendors, and another 10 with resellers, according to Richard
Gardner, a Salomon Smith Barney analyst.



"We continue to believe that a few of the strongest distributors will
take on an expanded role for both suppliers and resellers within the
supply chain, and that Ingram Micro will be included in most of these
deals," said Gardner said in a recent research note. At current prices
around 14 1/8, "We would be aggressive buyers of Ingram Micro shares,"
Gardner said.
   -Anthony Palazzo; 323-658-3776; Tony.Palazzo@dowjones.com



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  09-21-99



02:00 PM


Document dj00000020010827dv9l064yo




 US SHARES DROP SHARPLY ON DOLLAR-YEN WORRIES. 

279 words
21 September 1999
Market News International
MARNEW
English
(c) 1999. Market News International, Inc.

 NEW YORK (MktNews) - U.S. share prices slid sharply Tuesday on worries of continued strengthening in the Japanese yen. 

 The Dow Jones Industrials fell 225.43 to 10,598.47 on moderate New York Stock Exchange volume of 788 million shares. The S&P 500 fell 27.95 to 1,307.58, while NYSE decliners led advancers by a wide 680 to 2,349. 

 The curtain opened on a sour note as a much wider-than-expected U.S. trade gap, a record $25.2 billion in July vs. expectations for under $24 billion, sent dollar-yen to multi-year lows near Y103. 

 Worries are heating up that continued strengthening of the yen may endanger that country's barely perceptible recovery. Dealers noted that overnight inaction by the Bank of Japan, which failed to ease monetary policy, has heightened concern. 

 Reports of the devastating earthquake in Taiwan rattled the semiconductor sector, in turn weighing down the whole market. Taiwan is one the world's leading producers of computer chips. Vitesse down 7 15/16 at 89 1/4, Intel down 2 1/16 at 82, Micron down 1 7/8 to 78 1/8, and Novell down 7/8 to 20 3/4. 

 Apple plunged 9 13/16 to 69 1/4 after issuing a profit warning tied to a chip shortage, while Goodyear sank 4 5/8 to 47 5/16 on negative comments from J.P. Morgan. 

 Bell Atlantic rose 15/16 to 64 9/16 after launching a wireless joint venture with Vodafone, up 4 5/8 at 216 5/8. 

 Copyright 1999. Market News International, Inc. 

Document marnew0020010907dv9l00cpg




 U.S. stock index futures fall sharply early. 

421 words
21 September 1999
16:05
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 CHICAGO, Sept 21 (Reuters) - U.S. stock index futures fell sharply early, weakened by a soft dollar/yen and a record U.S. trade deficit for July, traders said. 

 Activity was heavy early on the floor of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. Standard & Poor's 500 index futures opened soft and sank lower through support at 1,338.00, and near 1,329.00 to 1,328.00. Further support was near 1,324.00 to 1,323.00. 

 The dollar extended overnight losses against the yen after the Bank of Japan decided not to ease monetary policy, a setback for government efforts to curb yen's strength. The dollar's weakness carried over into U.S. stock index futures. 

 "You have the dollar being pressured by the Bank of Japan's decision to leave monetary policy unchanged. That's weighing on sentiment, causing further losses in the dollar," said Pat O'Hare, market analyst for Briefing.com. "That's a negative from a psychological standpoint (for stock index futures)." 

 While the weak dollar was the major factor weighing on stock index futures, O'Hare said the record U.S. trade gap, $25.18 billion in July versus a forecast of $23.8 billion, added pressure because it caused speculation about whether the Federal Reserve will tighten credit at its next meeting. 

 "What the trade deficit may do is feed concerns the Fed may still tighten in October," he said. 

 Early losses were broad-based, O'Hare said, with technology, financial, drug and retail stocks taking a hit on profit taking. Stock index futures could retrace losses later in the session, getting a lift from bargain hunters. 

 Also weighing on technology stocks was Apple Computer Inc.'s warning that its fiscal fourth-quarter earnings may not meet Wall Street expectations, one trader said. Apple shares fell 10 percent on the news. 

 "Techs are weak from the Apple profit warning. The techs are falling on that," he said. 

 Fair value for December S&Ps was near 14.00 points above cash. 

 At 0934 CDT/1434 GMT, December S&Ps were off 19.10 pts at 1,329.70, Nasdaq eased 33.00 to 2,537.00, Russell fell 4.30 to 431.60, Nikkei fell 230.0 to 17,400.0, Dow futures eased 170 to 10,748 and Midcaps eased 4.20 to 400.30. ((Chicago Derivatives Desk(312)408-8750 chicago.derivatives.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010907dv9l00chm




 U.S. Treasuries end mixed as stocks slide. 

662 words
21 September 1999
22:18
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 Ellen Freilich 

 NEW YORK, Sept 21 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasuries ended mixed on Tuesday after a stock market slide spurred demand for U.S. government securities, stemming early losses incurred after a record trade deficit sent the dollar down sharply. 

 The benchmark 30-year bond finished at 100-14/32, down 9/32, having erased most losses incurred after the government issued the July U.S. trade figures. The 30-year bond yield rose to 6.09 percent, up from 6.07 percent at Monday's close. 

 The Commerce Department said the U.S. trade deficit surged to a record $25.18 billion in July as imports jumped. The gap was much wider than the $23.8 billion economists had forecast, and higher than June's $24.60 billion trade deficit. 

 Traders and analysts said the early pressure on the Treasury market created by the trade report and the consequent fall in the dollar lifted as stocks slumped on Wall Street, hurt by the trade deficit news, the falling dollar, and a profit warning from Apple Computer Corp. 

 A falling dollar not only discourages foreign investors, but also makes imports more expensive in the United States, creating some inflation pressure. 

 "The dollar was the reason we have been on the defensive here for a few days," said Anthony Karydakis, senior financial economist at Banc One Capital Markets. "And the stock market was what prevented the slide in bonds from going further and helped us rebound since midday." 

 The blue-chip Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 225 points, or 2.08 percent, to an unofficial close of 10,598.47. 

 Courtney Rorie, market strategist at A.G. Edwards & Sons, said the stock market's slide helped Treasuries as investors sought safety in U.S. government securities. 

 Several Federal Reserve officials spoke on Tuesday, but their remarks had little market impact. 

 Fed Bank of San Francisco President Robert Parry said the pace of U.S. consumer spending did not indicate that domestic economic growth was slowing much. And Fed Bank of New York President William McDonough said he did not expect that the Fed would have to adjust interest rates due to Y2K-related effects on the economy in the next two quarters. 

 "The Fed speakers said nothing surprising," Rorie said. 

 While the dollar fluctuated in the foreign exchange market and stocks slid dramatically, bonds remained range-bound, Karydakis observed. 

 "We are still waiting to get some clearer signals as to what we will get at the next (Fed policy) meeting," he said. 

 One reason the trade report worried the market was that it pointed to continued strong growth in the U.S., and to further signs of recovery abroad as evidenced by a small rise in U.S. exports to $79.04 billion in July from $78.62 billion in June. 

 Traders worry that the Federal Reserve's monetary policy committee, which has already raised rates twice this year, could respond to that recovery by raising rates for a third time at its next meeting on Oct. 5, a move that would reverse the last of the three interest rates cuts the Fed made last fall in response to the global financial crisis. 

 "The risks that lie ahead (for the bond market) over the next couple of weeks are mostly related to the Fed," Karydakis said. 

 Two-year notes, which were down nearly 1/8-point early in the session, ended unchanged at 99-23/32, yielding 5.65 percent. 

 Five-year notes slipped 3/32 to 100-25/32 to yield 5.82 percent while 10-year notes fell 5/32 to 100-17/32, yielding 5.93 percent. 

 Three-month, six-month and year-bill rates each eased one basis point to close at 4.66 percent, 4.87 percent and 4.97 percent, respectively. 

 (( - North American Treasury Desk, 212-859-1679, nyc.guvvies.newsroom@reuters.com )). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010909dv9l03bsc




 U.S. Treasuries mixed in late trade. 

 By Ellen Freilich 
680 words
21 September 1999
21:26
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Sept 21 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasuries were mixed late Tuesday after a stock market slide spurred demand for government securities, stemming early losses incurred after a record U.S. trade deficit sent the dollar sharply lower. 

 In late trade, the benchmark 30-year bond was down 8/32 to 100-15/32, having erased most of its losses incurred after the government issued the July trade figures. The 30-year bond yield was 6.09 percent, up from 6.07 percent at Monday's close. 

 The Commerce Department said the U.S. trade deficit surged to a record $25.18 billion in July as imports jumped. The gap was much wider than the $23.8 billion economists had forecast, and higher than June's $24.6 billion trade deficit. 

 Traders and analysts said the intense, early pressure on the Treasury market created by that report and the consequent fall in the dollar lifted as stocks slumped on Wall Street, hurt by the trade deficit news, the falling dollar, and a profit warning from Apple Computer Corp. 

 A falling dollar not only discourages foreign investors, but also makes imports more expensive in the United States, creating some inflation pressure. 

 "The dollar was the reason we have been on the defensive here for a few days," said Anthony Karydakis, senior financial economist at Banc One Capital Markets. "And the stock market was what prevented the slide in bonds from going further and helped us rebound since midday." 

 The blue-chip Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 225 points, or 2.08 percent, to an unofficial cose of 10,598.47. 

 Courtney Rorie, market strategist at A.G. Edwards & Sons, said the stock market's slide helped Treasuries as investors sought out the safety of U.S. government securities. 

 Several Federal Reserve officials spoke on Tuesday, but their remarks had little market impact. 

 Fed Bank of San Francisco President Robert Parry said the pace of U.S. consumer spending does not indicate domestic economic growth is slowing much. And New York Fed President William McDonough said he did not expect that the Fed would have to adjust interest rates due to Y2K-related effects on the economy in the next two quarters. 

 "The Fed speakers said nothing surprising," Rorie said. 

 While the dollar fluctuated in the foreign exchange market and stocks slid dramatically, bonds remained range-bound, Karydakis observed. 

 "We are still waiting to get some clearer signals as to what we will get at the next (Fed policy) meeting," he said. 

 One reason the trade report worried the market was that it pointed to continued strong growth in the U.S., and to further signs of recovery abroad as evidenced by a small rise in U.S. exports to $79.04 billion in July from $78.62 billion in June. 

 Traders worry that the Federal Reserve's monetary policy committee, which has already raised rates twice this year, could respond to that recovery by raising rates for a third time at its next meeting on Oct. 5, a move that would reverse the last of the three interest rates cuts the Fed made last fall in response to the global financial crisis. 

 "The risks that lie ahead (for the bond market) over the next couple of weeks are mostly related to the Fed," Karydakis said. 

 In late trade, two-year notes, which were down nearly 1/8-point early in the session, were up 1/32 to 99-24/32, yielding 5.64 percent. 

 Five-year notes were down 2/32 to 100-26/32, yielding 5.81 percent while 10-year notes were off 4/32 to 100-18/32, yielding 5.92 percent. 

 Three-month bill rates eased one basis point to 4.66 percent in late trade while six-month rates eased two basis points to 4.86 percent. Year bill rates softened one basis point to 4.97 percent. 

 (( - North American Treasury Desk, 212-859-1679, nyc.guvvies.newsroom@reuters.com )). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010909dv9l038ly




 Apple Computer blames chip shortage for lower earnings outlook 

343 words
20 September 1999
23:34
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
(c) 1999.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved.

 CUPERTINO, Calif. (AP) - Apple Computer Inc. warned investors Monday that a shortage of chips used in its Power Mac G4 would put a drag on its fourth quarter profits, with earnings much lower than Wall Street expected. 

 The company said Motorola has not been able to supply enough chips to fill all the more than 150,000 orders Apple has received since announcing the product three weeks ago. 

 As a result, the company expects to report earnings between $75 million and $85 million on Oct. 13, down from $106 million during the same quarter in 1998. Apple made the announcement after the close of markets Monday. 

 "We regret that we will not be able to ship them all this quarter," said Apple's interim CEO Steve Jobs. "This is a temporary issue, and we hope to catch up early in the coming quarter." 

 The warning showed profit would equal about 43 cents to 49 cents per share, down from the 76 cents estimated by analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial. That sent Apple's shares down almost 14 percent to $68 in after-hours trading, down from Monday's close of $79.06 1/4 . 

 "That is a vast overreaction," said Dan Lavin, who follows technology companies as research director with IV Associates, in Burlingame, Calif. Analysts have simply expected too much, too quickly from Apple, whose core products are doing well, he said. 

 "They've more than doubled their market share. They're finally making money," Lavin said. "This is just a case of the analysts continuing to push and push and push and then they got savaged." 

 The news is the first financial blow since Apple's announced recovery last October, when Jobs proudly reported the company's first profitable fiscal year since 1995. 

 Apple's chief financial officer Fred Anderson said Monday that despite the fourth quarter glitch, the company's fiscal year will end with "significant year-over-year growth in units and revenue in the December quarter." 

Urgent

Document aprs000020010829dv9k0am58


 Share Prices Plunge for Durham, N.C.-Based Pharmaceutical Services Firm 

 David Ranii 
740 words
17 September 1999
KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: High Point Enterprise - North Carolina
KRTBN
English
Copyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)

 DURHAM, N.C.--Shares in Quintiles Transnational, which had already fallen out of favor on Wall Street, were hammered after the company said its earnings would fall well short of expectations in the next two quarters. 

 Quintiles stock fell $14.75, or 42 percent, to $20 Thursday on trading of 39.4 million shares, making it the third-largest decliner and most actively traded U.S. stock. The punishment meted out by investors slashed about $1.7 billion from the company's market value. The stock traded as low as $16.875. 

 To add injury to insult, the world's largest pharmaceutical services company was in a position of weakness. Its stock has been slumping since it peaked at $56.188 in mid-December. 

 Late Wednesday night, hours after the market closed and while the Triangle braced for Hurricane Floyd, Quintiles announced that its earnings in the third and fourth quarters wouldn't meet analysts' expectations. The company projected third-quarter earnings of 27 cents per share, compared with an average estimate from analysts of 36 cents. Fourth-quarter earnings were projected at 32 cents per share, compared with the average forecast of 39 cents. 

 Quintiles also said earnings next year would grow about 25 percent. By contrast, Quintiles' profit jumped 38 percent in the first quarter and 49 percent in the second quarter, excluding transaction costs. 

 The company blamed the downward revisions on the cancellation of several drug development contracts. The company helps pharmaceutical companies design, implement and analyze clinical trials of experimental drugs. 

 "Our anticipated shortfall stems largely from the unprecedented cessation by pharmaceutical companies of clinical programs tied to a single class of cardiovascular drugs," Rachel Selisker, Quintiles' chief financial officer, said in a statement. 

 Wall Street was caught unaware. "I was blindsided by it," said John Kreger of William Blair & Co. in Chicago. "The way the stock is trading, most people were. When a stock falls by half, the market is surprised." He added that Quintiles' announcement, on the heels of similar news from competitors, has further undermined the market's faith in the industry. 

 "For the leader to suffer this kind of shortfall would cause people to reassess the prospects for the entire sector," Kreger said. "And this news, coming so closely behind Covance's news, also sends a negative signal." Covance, based in Princeton, N.J., saw its shares plunge 31 percent earlier this month after issuing a profit warning. 

 "This confirms the fear that the industry is slowing down, and Quintiles seems to be no exception to that," said Bernard Lirola, an analyst with Needham & Co. in New York. 

 Covance's earnings shortfall triggered a cutback of 150 jobs, but Quintiles made no mention of job cuts in its announcement. The company, based in Durham, has 19,000 employees worldwide, including 1,300 in the Triangle. 

 Quintiles spokeswoman Pat Grebe said the company had no comment on the announcement. Analysts, meanwhile, were divided on whether job cuts might be on the horizon. Kreger said he doubted major layoffs are coming. 

 "We're talking about a company that isn't growing as fast, but it's still growing," he said. "And it's a very labor-intensive business." Lirola, however, speculated that "sooner or later" downsizing would be needed. 

 Analysts said it was difficult for them to assess the long-term implications for the company because they weren't able to talk to company executives Thursday. "We have a lot more questions than answers right now," Kreger said. 

 Quintiles told analysts that, because of Hurricane Floyd, it would delay a conference call to discuss its announcement until this morning. The company likely didn't score any public-relations points with analysts by being unavailable Thursday to discuss the news. 

 Until Wednesday's announcement, Quintiles had taken the position that it wasn't being affected by the slowdown that was hurting competitors. Late last month, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Dennis Gillings sent an e-mail message to employees reassuring them that the company was "well positioned for the future" despite its flagging stock price. 

 Gillings' net worth absorbed a major blow Thursday. The former biostatistics professor owns more than 6 million shares, or a 5.4 percent stake in the company, according to documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Those shares plunged almost $89 million in value. 

Document krtbn00020010828dv9h01o2t




 Banking & Insurance: Floyd Puts European Reinsurers at Risk 

 By Heleen De Graaf 
Dow Jones Newswires
479 words
16 September 1999
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
25
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 AMSTERDAM -- If Hurricane Floyd causes heavy damage in the U.S., European reinsurers are likely to feel the impact, analysts said. 

 Primary insurers, however, should escape large losses since many of them are protected by reinsurance. 

 Floyd, which weakened slightly Wednesday as it moved northward along the U.S. Atlantic coast, brought massive rainfall and hurricane-force winds in Florida. Floyd's eye was expected to continue to swirl over the Atlantic Ocean before making landfall today near Wilmington, North Carolina. 

 Although insurance analysts said it was difficult to predict how extensive the hurricane's impact would be, they noted that the less-powerful Hurricane Andrew, which hit the U.S. East Coast in 1992, caused economic losses of $30 billion (28.98 billion euros) and overall damages to insurers and reinsurers of $18 billion. 

 "No European companies specialize in Florida," said Chris Hitchings with Commerzbank. Two U.K. firms, CGU PLC and Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group PLC, have U.S. subsidiaries that operate in Florida. Their exposure is "relatively small," however, representing less than 1% of their total income. Both of those companies have extensive reinsurance that will limit losses, he said. 

 Barrie Cornes at Charterhouse Securities said the two British insurers could incur losses of about $125 million if Floyd strikes hard at coastal areas. 

 A spokesman for Royal & Sun Alliance confirmed that the company's exposure to the U.S. is protected by reinsurance. The U.K. group holds less than 1% of the U.S. general-insurance market. It is currently seeking to acquire Orion Capital Corp., a U.S. property and casualty insurer which holds a small share of the market in Florida. 

 The reinsurers most vulnerable to the effects of Hurricane Floyd, analysts said, are Swiss Reinsurance Co., Munich Reinsurance Co. and, to a lesser extent, Hanover Reinsurance Co. 

 Both Swiss Re and Munich Re said it was too early to make any estimates on damages. French insurer AXA SA said it didn't have data readily available on damage and claims estimates. 

 Allianz AG Holding, which is active in the U.S. reinsurance business and has a direct insurance subsidiary in the U.S. called Fireman's Fund, said that if the company suspected any substantial damage from the storm, it would issue a profit warning, though no such move was necessary at present. 

 Aegon NV of the Netherlands, which became one of the largest insurers in the U.S. following its acquisition of Transamerica earlier this year, said it only had life-insurance operations in the U.S. and therefore wouldn't be affected by claims resulting from damages caused by Floyd. 

 --- 

 Cecile Gutscher and George Matlock in London, Sarah Sloat in Frankfurt and Dennis Baker in Zurich contributed to this article. 

Document wsje000020010830dv9g00fjy




 +Contract-Research Cos Dn On Quintiles  Profit Warning 

19 words
16 September 1999
17:22
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 (MORE) DOW JONES NEWS  09-16-99 

 12:22 PM 

Document dj00000020010827dv9g060k5




 ALL THE NEWS OF THE WORLD. 

568 words
16 September 1999
The Independent - London
IND
2
English
(c) 1999 Independent Newspapers (UK) Limited . All rights reserved. This material may not be published, distributed or exploited in any way.

 Monitor - Local reaction after a state of emergency was declared as Hurricane Floyd approached America's eastern seaboard. 

 THIS TIME, just by the sheer luck of its geography, Floyd was not to be a West Coast hurricane. Naples' role was to serve as a safe port amid a very big storm. Helping the endangered and displaced as best we can is not only the right thing to do for now, it is an insurance policy for the next time, when Southwest Floridians may be forced to head elsewhere for protection. Southwest Florida's next assignment is to stay tuned. Floyd's future cannot be taken for granted, and Hurricane Gert is out there. This hurricane season - a late bloomer - extends beyond Thanksgiving. 

 Naples Daily News 

 FOLKS IN Central Florida, bracing for Hurricane Floyd, have had their fingers crossed, waiting for the assault. Hurricanes are bad news anywhere, of course, but they can be especially troubling at sea because there is nowhere to hide. However, we're all much better off now with radar and storm-tracking planes. Nevertheless, the really bad ones are bad anywhere - and expensive in dollars and lives. 

 Orlando Sentinel 

 IN ONE sense, Hurricane Floyd has been a well-behaved storm. Almost always, hurricanes deal out surprises that throw the experts off. But in the course of its two-week life, this storm has developed, grown into a monster, moved westward and then weakened somewhat, almost precisely as meteorologists expected it to. Now that Hurricane Floyd has entered a meteorological realm where it must interact with another powerful weather system, the situation could get dicier. 

 Atlanta Journal Constitution 

 YOU'RE ON your own now. If you're among the estimated 40 per cent of Chatham Countians who have not left the area under the mandatory evacuation order, you have just a few precious unexpected hours of manageable weather left in which to hit the road. But make sure that you do hit the road. Now. When gale force winds reach us, emergency officials will end the evacuation. You won't be arrested if you're just starting your trip to Macon. But if you run into trouble, there won't be any emergency crews who will be around to help you. You will be on your own with a monster close behind you. 

 Savannah Morning News 

 IT'S A sad fact of life that inevitably there are those who seek to profit from the suffering that follows a natural disaster such as this one. Local officials issued strong warnings Tuesday to those who might yield to the impulse to engage in looting or price gouging in the wake of Hurricane Floyd. The message: Don't even think about it; it won't be tolerated. Perhaps a sense of community will strike a chord. Our next priority (after saving lives through evacuation and shelters) is to make sure that our city avoids the loss of honor and besmirched reputation by having (looting and price gouging) going on. These words of advice should be heeded. They mean to enforce the curfew (beginning at 7 tonight), protect property and stop profiteers. It's conceivable that some people don't appreciate the stern official resolve against a repetition of the price gouging and looting that occurred after Hurricane Hugo. Just in case, let these authorities' statements be fair warning. 

 Post and Courier, Charleston. 

Document ind0000020010906dv9g0098n




 European Reinsurers May Feel Impact Of Hurricane Floyd 

501 words
15 September 1999
12:43
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 AMSTERDAM (Dow Jones)--If Hurricane Floyd hits the U.S. mainland, European reinsurers will feel the impact, analysts said. 

 The primary insurers are seen staying mostly in the clear as many of them are protected by the fact that they reinsure. 

 Floyd, a category 4 storm caused massive rainfall and hurricane-force winds in Florida. Floyd's eye was expected to continue to swirl over the Atlantic Ocean before making landfall on Thursday at Wilmington, N.C. 

 Although analysts said it was difficult to predict how big the impact of the hurricane would be they noted that less forceful Hurricane Andrew, which hit the U.S. East Coast in 1992, caused economic losses of $30 billion and overall damages to insurers and reinsurers of $18 billion. 

 "No European companies specialize in Florida," said Chris Hitchings with Commerzbank. "CGU (U.CGU) and Royal & Sun Alliance have U.S. subsidiaries that operate in Florida and have some exposure but it's relatively small; less than 1% of total income," Hitchings said adding both companies reinsure quite extensively which will limit losses. 

 His colleague at Charterhouse Securities, Barrie Cornes, said the two U.K. companies could incur losses of about $125 million if Floyd hits the mainland. 

 A spokesman for Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group PLC (U.RSA) said the group's exposure to the U.S. is protected by reinsurance. The U.K. group has a 0.8% stake in the U.S. general insurance market and it currently bidding for Orion, a U.S. insurer which has 0.5% of the market in Florida. 

 Hitchings and Cornes said the biggest impact will fall on the reinsurance market and hit companies such as Swiss RE (Z.REI), Munich Re (G.MUV) and, to a lesser extend, Hanover Re (G.HAN). 

 Both Swiss Re and Munich Re said it was too early to make any estimates on damages. French insurer AXA (AXA) said it didn't readily have data available on damage and claims estimates. 

 These comments were echoed by another German insurer, Allianz AG Holding (G.ALL), which is active in the U.S. reinsurance business and has a direct insurance subsidiary in the U.S. called Fireman's Fund. A spokesman for Allianz said that if the company suspected any substantial damage from the storm, it would issue a profit warning but said that such a move is at present unnecessary. 


Dutch company Aegon NV (AEG), one of the largest insurers in the U.S.
following the acquisition of Transamerica earlier this year, said it
only had life insurance operations in the U.S. and therefore wouldn't be
affected by claims resulting from damages caused by Floyd.
-By Heleen de Graaf; 31/20/626/0770;
heleen de.degraaf@dowjones.com



(Cecile Gutscher and George Matlock in London, Sarah Sloat in
Frankfurt and Dennis Baker in Zurich contributed to this article.)



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  09-15-99



07:43 AM


Document dj00000020010827dv9f05ydx




 Investors Dump Federal Mogul Shares Following  Profit Warning 

232 words
14 September 1999
16:38
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Shares of Federal Mogul Corp. plummeted Tuesday after the automotive supplier said it expects earnings for the third quarter and full year to come in below expectations. 

 Shares of Southfield, Mich.-based Federal Mogul (FMO) declined $9, or 23%, to close at $30.375. 

 Federal Mogul issued the earnings warning shortly after the market closed Monday. Chairman Dick Snell blamed the lowered expectations on softness in the replacement auto-parts market and production problems. 

 Snell also said he would take over for Gordon Ulsh, who was named president and chief operating officer in February. While Snell didn't say what the management shake-up means for Ulsh, he said there will be a place for him "in a revised organization." 

 Snell said he will present a reorganization plan to Federal Mogul's board next week. The plan will be aimed at reducing costs to reflect lower than expected aftermarket volumes, he said. 

 Federal-Mogul said third-quarter operating earnings are expected to be $1 to $1.05 a diluted share, below the First Call/Thomson Financial mean estimate of $1.25 a share. Operating earnings for the year are expected to be $4.20 to $4.30 a share, down from the mean estimate of $4.73 a share. 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020329dv9e03o9c




 American Home Officials Sold Shares, Reaping Millions In Profit 

 By Elyse Tanouye, Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 
520 words
10 September 1999
06:19
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Amid mounting regulatory and legal problems surrounding American Home Products Corp. drugs, a dozen American Home officers and directors sold shares in the company earlier this year, in many cases reaping millions of dollars in profit after exercising stock options. 

 Most of the sales came before the stock price began its descent from its high of $70.25 on April 13. Yesterday, American Home stock fell $2.25, or 5.3%, to $40.0625 after reports that the Federal Bureau of Investigation is looking into how the company won government approval of a once-popular diet drug, Redux. 

 American Home said yesterday that it hadn't been contacted by the FBI. A spokesman said the insider sales by officers and directors were "routine transactions," and said that insiders have made similar sales in previous years. 

 Between January and May of this year, top company executives exercised stock options and reaped between $1.4 million to $7.3 million in profit each. The sales occurred within a normal window of time when such transactions are permitted, the spokesman said. 

 Among the insiders selling shares was Robert Levy, the company's head of research, who sold 80,000 shares at between $58.38 and $63.50 a share, for a $3.35 million profit. Robert Blount, the company's senior executive vice president and chief financial officer, sold 186,668 shares, at $58.22 a share, for a $7.3 million profit. Joseph Carr, a senior vice president, sold 50,000 shares at $66.63 a share, for a $2.4 million profit. General Counsel Louis Hoynes sold 74,800 shares at $59.50 for a $3 million profit. Rene Lewin, vice president of human resources, sold 40,000 shares at $57.19 a share, for a $1.5 million profit. 

 The company's chairman, John Stafford, hasn't sold shares this year, but last year received $11.16 million from exercising stock options and then selling. 

 The selling by American Home insiders came after a series of regulatory setbacks in 1997 and 1998, and before several more legal and regulatory problems emerged this year. 

 On June 1, citing weaknesses in its agricultural-products business, American Home issued a profit warning for the second quarter and all of 1999. During the summer, the company was hit with a $23 million verdict in a case involving Pondimin, the "fen" in the diet-drug combination fen-phen. 

 More recently, the company suspended shipments of its rotavirus vaccine after it was linked to serious bowel obstructions in 32 infants. And last week, it announced a recall of nearly 600,000 allergy kits because the medicine inside might lose potency before the expiration date. 

 American Home said these and other setbacks are unrelated. Referring to the stock sales by company insiders, the company spokesman said, "this isn't related to any issues that have arisen recently, including the diet drugs." 

 --- 

 Robert Langreth contributed to this article. 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020329dv9a03lzv




Nation/World
BUSINESS
NATION/WORLD

544 words
9 September 1999
Charlotte Observer (NC)
CLTO
ONE-THREE
1D
English
Copyright 1999 The Charlotte Observer. All rights reserved.   

Greenspan: Technology boosts boom

Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan suggested Wednesday that the U.S. economy's near-record expansion could continue, thanks to advancements in information technology.

The growth of such technologies as integrated circuits and improvements in software are among the developments that have "begun to alter, fundamentally, the manner in which we do business and create economic value," Greenspan said in Grand Rapids, Mich.

That's boosted productivity and shows few signs of slowing, he suggested. Greenspan, whose last public comments Aug. 27 raised questions about whether U.S. stocks are inflated, didn't revisit the subject Wednesday.

-Bloomberg News

*

Microsoft rival offers machine without hard drive

Sun Microsystems Inc., the No. 4 maker of computer servers, on Wednesday unveiled a terminal that's designed to compete with personal computers running on software made by archrival Microsoft Corp.

The new Sun Ray machine is much smaller than a PC and has no disk drives, getting almost all of its computing power from larger servers that run whole networks of the devices.

The new terminal is part of Sun's effort to shift computing away from PCs and onto networks of less-complex machines that are powered by servers, the high-end computers Sun makes.

-Bloomberg News

*

In brief

MARKET STRATEGIST Abby Joseph Cohen raised her forecast for the Standard & Poor's 500 Index, predicting it will rise to 1,385 by the end of 1999 and to 1,450 within 12 months, up from previous forecasts of 1,350 and 1,385.

U.S. ECONOMIC output was stronger than previously estimated during the eight-year-old expansion and inflation was a bit tamer, said government statisticians, who are changing the way they measure the economy.

GLOBAL CROSSING, a two-year-old company that's building a worldwide undersea fiber-optic network, received a big vote of confidence when Microsoft and Softbank agreed to invest $550 million to set up a joint venture in Asia and buy time on Global Crossing's network.

INGRAM MICRO, the world's biggest wholesale distributor of computers, said Chief Executive Jerre Stead will step down amid a warning that fiscal third-quarter profit will fall far below forecasts.

GTE AGREED to sell about 400,000 phone lines to a group of prominent Hispanic investors, including former New Mexico Gov. Toney Anaya and former U.S. Interior Secretary Manuel Lujan, for up to $1.4 billion in a move that would create one of the nation's largest Hispanic-owned telecommunications companies.

CSX, parent of the third-largest U.S. railroad, said it will cut 800 management jobs, or 1.7 percent of its work force, to reduce costs by $75 million a year.

LOW UNEMPLOYMENT may eventually trigger a rise in U.S. inflation, Federal Reserve Governor Laurence Meyer said in a speech to the Philadelphia Council for Business Economics. At the same time, faster productivity growth has offset some of the danger, leaving Fed policymakers with "considerable uncertainty" about the need for a third interest-rate increase this year, he suggested.

MICHELIN'S FIRST-HALF profit rose 17.3 percent to 292 million euros ($309 million), beating expectations, as it benefited from a boom in demand for truck tires.

Document CLTO000020090629dv9902hw6




 Cabletron Up Late; Co., Intel Unit To Co-Develop Pdts 

312 words
9 September 1999
22:31
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Shares of Cabletron Systems Inc. (CS) changed hands in late-market trading Thursday after the company unveiled a plan to co-develop networking products with Intel Corp.'s (INTC) Level One Communications unit. 

 Cabletron stock moved recently at 19, according to Reuters Instinet, more than a dollar higher than the 17 13/16 close on the New York Stock Exchange. Shares of Intel, meanwhile, traded at 88, up fractionally from their close of 87 3/4. 

 According to the companies, the networking products will combine the speed of Level One's new network processor chip with the functions of Cabletron's SmartSwitch routers. 

 Shares of Mastech Corp. (MAST), which ended the regular session at 16 3/16, were halted for late trading at around 4:20 p.m. EDT so the company could issue a profit warning. 

 Blaming its projected profit shortfall on a lost client, Mastech said it will earn 18 cents to 22 cents a share in the third quarter, excluding a 5-cent charge, well below Wall Street's estimate of 26 cents. Mastech expects third-quarter sales of $116 million to $120 million. A year ago, the company earned 20 cents a share on sales of $103.4 million. 

 Also after Thursday's final bell, California Amplifier Inc. (CAMP) reported second-quarter earnings above analysts' expectations by three cents a share. The company's stock nonetheless traded slightly lower in after-hours action, moving at 19, compared with a close of 19 1/16. 


The Camarillo, Calif., maker of amplifiers and antennas said it earned
7 cents a diluted share; a year ago, the company broke even.
Latest-quarter revenue rose to $18.6 million from $8.3 million.
   - Scott Eden; 201-938-5173



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  09-09-99



05:31 PM


Document dj00000020010827dv99047j1




 Tech, Internet Stks Active After Hours; Covance Untraded 

225 words
7 September 1999
22:35
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--On an otherwise quiet post-Labor Day aftermarket session Tuesday, Internet and high-technology stocks were active while shares of Covance Inc. (CVD) hadn't changed hands despite a late profitwarning from the biotech firm. 

 After the final bell, Covance, a biopharmaceutical development services company, said it expects third-quarter operating profit to fall 5 cents below Wall Street's view of 26 cents a share. The stock closed Tuesday's regular session at 15 1/2, unchanged from Friday. 

 Among high-tech issues, International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) shares moved at 132 and Intel Corp. (INTC) at 87 5/8, according to Reuters Instinet, both unchanged from their regular-session settlements. Dell Computer Corp. (DELL) traded at 49 1/2, up fractionally from 49 3/8, and Inktomi Corp (INKT) edged up to 119 5/8 from 119 9/16. 


Late traders also dealt shares of Internet stocks Tuesday, with
America Online Inc. (AOL) changing hands at 93 3/8, essentially flat
with a 93 5/16 close. Excite@home Corp. (ATHM) traded even with its
close of 39 5/16, and Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) slipped to 62 7/8 from 62
15/16.
   -Scott Eden; 201-938-5173



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  09-07-99



05:35 PM


Document dj00000020010827dv97045f7


 Chicago Tribune Business Outlook Column 

 William Sluis 
493 words
6 September 1999
KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Chicago Tribune - Illinois
KRTBN
English
Copyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)

 The inflation story received an end-of-summer dash of cold water Friday, as August payrolls and wages grew at a slower pace than expected. 

 Even so, there still are voices saying the Federal Reserve is behind the curve in stamping out price pressures. Their reasoning: Rising wages, once they become virulent, take many months to bring under control. For now, at least, prices increases for goods seems largely benign. Additional numbers roll out Friday, in the form of the August producer price index. Economist Tim O'Neill is looking for the index to show a sharp jump of 0.4 percent, but when food and energy are excluded, the rise will be only 0.1 percent. 

 "The report will show a sizable increase in gasoline prices and a rebound in costs for food, which fell by 0.9 percent in July," said O'Neill, of Chicago's Harris Bank and its parent, Bank of Montreal. "Elsewhere, we are seeing some acceleration in prices at the front end of production. This has been seen for several months in prices paid by factories, as reflected in surveys of purchasing managers." 

 The question for Wednesday's report on July consumer credit is not how much debt Americans took on during the month but whether they are starting to give up their profligate credit card spree. Some purveyors of plastic have complained that business is slowing, prompting analysts to conclude that Americans are foreswearing revolving debt. For what it's worth, in June, consumer credit advanced by $2.8 billion, a relatively paltry figure. 

 Investors in coming days will be on watch for warning season, that three-week span before the end of every quarter when corporations confess their profit shortfalls. Last week's clinker came from Sears, Roebuck & Co., which said business has been so-so, prompting its stock to plummet. Chicago investment manager William Hummer says additional earnings shocks are likely. "Corporations are being squeezed ruthlessly, because costs are rising for both labor and interest rates," said Hummer, of Wayne Hummer & Co. "Investors are waking up to the fact that expectations of 15 percent earnings growth for the current period won't be realized," he said. "Earnings growth will be more like 10 percent. However, we should remember that the year-earlier profits were horrific, because of problems in Asia." 

 Stock, bond, commodity, futures and options markets, along with government offices, banks and some businesses are closed Monday for Labor Day. The weekly auction of U.S. Treasury bills will take place Tuesday. For the stock market, the arrival of September marks the beginning of the traditional spooky season, a two-month span during which Wall Street has witnessed history's scariest downturns. After a ho-hum summer rally that never was quite able to jell, investors are alert for anything that would increase their jitters, including early warnings about Year 2000 computer-bug problems. 

Document krtbn00020010828dv9601ma8


 Daily Mail, London, Market Report 

 Geoff Foster 
815 words
4 September 1999
KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Daily Mail - London
KRTBN
English
Copyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)

 NORWICH UNION'S GAIN AS PUNTERS DO U-TURN: Troubled Thursday gave way to Frantic Friday as encouraging announcements sent investors scrambling for shares they had been keen to ditch a day earlier. 

 First came confirmation that NatWest was in talks on a bid for Legal & General. That set both banks and insurers alight. Softer labour market figures from the US took some pressure off recent interest rate fears. Only 124,000 extra people found jobs in August while pay rates rose just 0.2 percent. Both figures were about half what had been expected. 

 So when the Dow Jones Average gained 200 points in the first two hours of trading there was no stopping the Footsie. Shares closed in London up 136.5 points at 6332.1, more than wiping out Thursday's fall. 

 Speculators tried to guess which life assurer might be next to catch the eye of a major bank. They soon settled on Norwich Union, pushing the shares 10 percent higher at the start of trading. Norwich held the higher ground to close up 47 pence at 474 1/4 pence on turnover of more than 30 million shares. Another favourite was Prudential, 50 1/2 pence to the good at 998 1/2 pence, but Britannic failed to maintain momentum and settled for an 8 pence rise to 1050 pence after 1080 pence. L&G itself gained 13 pence to 205 1/4 pence. 

 Old Mutual, up 7 pence to 139 pence, was helped by a modest upgrading from broker Dresdner Kleinwort Benson, which had previously advised clients to remain underweight in the shares. The note came ahead of Old Mutual's elevation to the Footsie ranks later this month. 

 The action spilled over into composite insurers, where CGU leapt 85 1/2 pence to 992 1/2 pence while Royal Sun Alliance shone at 527 pence, up 17 pence. 

 NatWest, down 68 pence to 1143 pence, was the Cinderella of the banking sector as analysts pondered over the very full price it looks like paying for L&G. Most of the banks that took a pasting on Thursday bounced back as bargain hunters moved in. The former building societies were particularly in demand, with gains for Abbey National, 31 pence to 1044 pence, Halifax, 27 1/2 pence to 712 1/2 pence, and Woolwich, 13 1/2 pence to 360 1/2 pence. 

 Barclays advanced 14 pence to 1797 pence, Lloyds 17 1/2 pence to 841 pence and HSBC 16 1/2 pence to 763 pence. 

 Beneficiaries of renewed interest in software suppliers included Mysis with a 40 pence gain to 602 pence and Sage, with a leap of 167 pence to 3027 1/2 pence. 

 On foreign exchanges the pound fell 3/4 cent against the dollar to $1.6043 but advanced nearly 1/2 pence to 66.08 pence against the euro. 

 Laundry and plant hire group Davis Service slipped 2 1/2 pence to 424 pence after a downgrading by broker Merrill Lynch, which withdrew its previous buy recommendation. The shares have had a good run from 272 pence last October but analyst Andrew Ripper sees them marking time for the foreseeable future. 

 Investors liked the tasty agm statement from Inter Link Foods chairman Jeremy Hamer. He said first quarter profits to July at the maker of cakes and pastries for supermarkets were up 67 percent on turnover 15 percent ahead. At 160 pence on AIM, up 22 1/2 pence, the shares just topped the 159 pence peak seen two months ago. 

 No such good news from recruitment specialist HW Group after its second profit warning this year. Chairman Richard Mead sent the shares plunging 30 percent six months ago when he warned that trading conditions had turned difficult in the second half to last March. 

 Yesterday he told the agm that operating profits have been just as disappointing since then. The shares dropped another 7 1/2 pence to 79 pence, half the 160 pence they were floated at in June last year. 

 Another unhappy bunch of shareholders who are getting used to bad news turned up at the agm of 600 Group to hear that the lathe maker would suffer a loss in the first half to October. Difficult trading conditions continued in the international machine tool market. An improvement was promised for the second half but in the light of two previous profit warnings in November and February the shares closed 2 1/2 pence lower at 75 1/2 pence after slipping to 70 pence. 

 Hope springs eternal that household products group Reckitt & Colman will attract a better offer than the UKpound 5 billion merger with Dutch rival Benckiser even though it was approved by shareholders last week. Wishful thinking pushed Reckitt 25 pence higher to 777 pence. 

Document krtbn00020010828dv9401lws




 Danish shares echo overseas rises on U.S.jobs data. 

390 words
3 September 1999
16:17
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 COPENHAGEN Stock Exchange at 1510 GMT close on Friday: 

 *KFX top-20 index   216.26 up 2.77 pts/1.3 pct 


*KFX turnover	 982 million DKK ($140 million)



*KFX September future 216.75 up 3.50 pts



*Broad market risers vs decliners 99 vs 105



*Broad market turnover  1.7 billion DKK



*Carnegie small-cap index 230.00 down 1.11 pct



COPENHAGEN, Sept 3 (Reuters) - Danish blue-chip shares



closed higher on Friday, basking like European bourses and New



York in receding fears of a new U.S. rate hike after benign jobs



data, with dealers optimistic about the outlook for Monday.



"The overnight Wall Street performance will determine how



things go here on Monday. The market undertone is good, so if



the U.S. holds its own, we will see more rises here," one dealer



said.



Helping the KFX along was leading shipping and oil group



Moeller`s D/S Svendborg and D/S 1912, which



continued their climb inspired by the stronger dollar and higher



oil prices, ending the week 1,244 and 600 crowns higher at



103,244 and 72,000 crowns.



Leading banks were buoyant too, with Den Danske and



rival Unidanmark both pushing 10 crowns ahead to close



at 800 and 470 crowns respectively.



Main market constituents Tele Danmark and bio-tech



firm Novo Nordisk rose seven and nine crowns



respectively to 401 and 845 crowns.



GN Store Nord revived after suffering falls in the



wake of its H1 results on Tuesday, pressing nine crowns up to



228 crowns.



Off the blue chip index, FIH (Finance for Danish



Industry) put on three crowns to 233 crowns after its



board reiterated its recommendation to shareholders to reject



Kapital Holding`s  222 crowns per share takeover bid.



KFX top-20 listed Kapital Holding itself edged one up to 254



crowns.



Among small caps roof material firm Icopal   fell 25



crowns or 9.6 percent to 235 crowns on a report that some of its



products may not fulfil government standrads.



Fashion house InWear   dipped 16 crowns or 10 percent



to equal its year low of 145 crowns on a profit warning.



((Chris Follett +45 33 96 96 52, fax +45 33 93 84 57,



copenhagen.newsroom@reuters.com)).



.......



.



(C) Reuters Limited 1999.


Document lba0000020010907dv93018fc




 Loss-Plagued Baptist Foundation of Arizona Undergoes Investigation by Regulators in State 

 By Randall Smith 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
1,321 words
1 September 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
C1
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 Robin Snyder, a 43-year-old Phoenix real-estate agent, put his family's entire retirement and college savings -- more than $100,000 -- into the Baptist Foundation of Arizona. Several of Mr. Snyder's relatives invested as well. 

 They now regret it. 

 Arizona state regulators have launched an investigation into the activities of the foundation, which was created in 1948 by the state's Southern Baptist Convention and manages endowment funds for Southern Baptist charities. Losses on the foundation's $483 million in stated assets could exceed $100 million and may be much more, according to rough estimates by experts who have studied the situation. Last month, the foundation voluntarily froze most of its assets after state regulators barred it from accepting any new money. 

 The affair could have more than a financial impact. Many of the state's churchgoing Baptists, and others outside the church, could "lose faith completely in Christian churches and organizations," Mr. Snyder says. 

 The BFA's promotional materials appealed strongly to church members' faith. A mailing around Christmas 1997, which offered rates ranging from 6% for a sixmonth note to 11.75% for a 15-year note, called it "a tremendous opportunity to be found faithful above and beyond the tithe to your local church. Learn how you can 'do good while doing good' by earning an excellent rate of interest and benefiting Southern Baptist ministries at the same time!" 

 Arizona regulators said an investigation with the state attorney general "reveals that the true financial condition" of BFA and two affiliates "has not been disclosed to the investing public." In a letter to investors on Aug. 7, BFA said it had brought in new accountants and lawyers, and might have to "pursue restructuring alternatives, such as bankruptcy." 

 Although state officials have been probing the fund since mid-1998, most of BFA's 13,000 investors learned only last month something was amiss. That is when the foundation consented to a cease-and-desist order by state regulators barring the BFA from accepting any new investments. 

 Mark Sendrow, director of the securities division of the Arizona Corporation Commission, said the foundation violated the state securities fraud statute by misrepresenting its results in a "scheme to cover up unprofitability by running a shell game." The BFA, he explained, "tried to paper over unrealized losses." 

 The Baptist affair could turn out to be an example of what state securities regulators call "affinity fraud." Marc Beauchamp, a spokesman for the North American Securities Administrators Association, says: "It's a category where people try to take advantage of ethnic or religious similarity or other kinds of things in common to say, `You can trust me; I go to the same church.'" 

 The Baptist situation raises warning flags about perils that could lurk in the growth of investments offered by other nonprofit or religious groups, which can get a pass from some regulatory scrutiny. While some are regulated just as much as their for-profit competitors, others aren't. As a charitable organization, BFA got to bypass a state review of its offering materials. 

 The first inkling of problems came three years ago, when several of BFA's midlevel officials quit. Some told regulators that BFA was hiding losses in off-balance-sheet affiliate companies set up in connection with at least 21 different realestate projects and other businesses. Regulatory scrutiny intensified last year after articles questioning BFA's finances began appearing in Phoenix New Times, a weekly newspaper. 

 The BFA has dismissed three of its top former officials, led by William P. Crotts, its president since 1982. Bill Mundell, an official of the Arizona Corporation Commission, called the BFA "a complex Ponzi scheme" at a public hearing Aug. 10. 

 In a letter to investors Aug. 7, the BFA said its board was "shocked and concerned by the state's allegations." Mr. Crotts didn't return calls seeking comment; Mr. Mundell couldn't be reached to elaborate. 

 The exact extent of any losses is unclear because of the complexity of the foundation's dealings. 

 "We think there are going to be losses, we just don't know what they are," says Mr. Sendrow of the state Corporation Commission. 

 Church members can't necessarily look to church headquarters for a parent with deep pockets to make good any losses. 

 Arizona is one of 22 state Southern Baptist conventions, according to William Merrell, a spokesman for the national Southern Baptist Convention, which he says doesn't have "the power to control or insist on any actions" by the state groups. 

 At the Arizona Southern Baptist Convention, Executive Director Steve Bass says: "Obviously, we're feeling very concerned for everyone involved." When asked about reimbursing losses, he cautions that the state group is "very small." 

 Exposure to the BFA is widespread among church-going Phoenix Baptists, all the more so since BFA fielded an aggressive sales force and set up offices at some churches. James Rentz, pastor of the First Baptist Church of Sun Lakes, Ariz., a retirement community, put his entire retirement savings into BFA investments, and at age 72 doesn't have a lot of time to rebuild his nest egg. He kept his money in despite questions raised by skeptics, he says, because he had "faith" in BFA's leaders and auditors. 

 First Southern Baptist Church of Glendale even invested 50% of the $3 million cost of a planned new church building with the foundation. Pastor Mark Mucklow, who says he cried when the state crackdown on the fund was announced to a group of Baptist pastors and their wives Aug. 7, said the church is seeking divine guidance on what to do next. 

 But he offers no recriminations. "I stand in loyalty to the BFA. These are brothers in Christ, no matter what's happened. We believe in unconditional love. We're going to stand with them in love while dealing with what we need to deal with as responsible people," he says. 

 The BFA's latest report for calendar 1998 shows a complex organization with 52 different subsidiaries and affiliated companies. While its assets rose 31% to $483.3 million since 1996, its interest expense on securities sold to investors as well as selling and administrative costs rose even faster. 

 Annual interest expenses rose 45% to $35.6 million in 1998 from 1996. The costs of BFA's big sales push were even greater by comparison. The three categories of salaries and wages, general and administrative, and "supplies and other" rose 41% to $52.2 million between 1996 and 1998. 

 Some regulators and former employees trace the foundation's woes to a real-estate investing spree back in the 1980s, combined with the foundation's need to show a balanced budget every year. These people say the BFA created its many subsidiaries partly to absorb losses on real-estate investments while still showing profits on the parent's books. 

 Whatever the genesis, the BFA's current annual report clearly reflects a mismatch of assets, such as real estate, that don't throw off income against liabilities that require steady interest payments. While its interest-bearing liabilities, generally notes sold to its investors, totaled $440.9 million, its interest-earning assets totaled just $218.3 million, according to the report. 

 Some of the BFA's risks are concentrated. Companies associated with a single foundation patron, identified only as "Benefactor B," BFA said, accounted for $65.1 million of its notes receivable. 

 With the fate of his family's investments in doubt, Mr. Snyder, the Phoenix realtor, says the family will have to defer plans to pay off its mortgage. His wife will have to keep working longer than expected. He believes state officials should act more forcefully to put the foundation in bankruptcy to prevent "further depletion" of funds. 

Document j000000020010828dv9100phb

Search Summary

 Text((“profit*” same “warning*”) or ("disappoint*" same "result*") or ("decreas*" same "profit*") or ("compan*" same "downturn*") or ("unexpect*" same "loss*"))   Date09/01/1999 to 09/30/1999   SourceAll Sources   AuthorAll Authors   CompanyAll Companies   Subject Not Corporate/Industrial News   IndustryAll Industries   RegionUnited States   LanguageEnglish   Results Found34   Timestamp28 March 2018 15:09  
 Page 85 of 85     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

