 
•	  Europe Stock Focus:Buyback Unlikely To Revive Stagecoach 
•	 Medical Assurance drops after Q1  profit warning .
•	  Upcoming Earnings Report Means Another Judgment Day for Insurance Giant Aon 
•	  MONEYLINE 
•	 Gerber Scientific Shares Tumble After  Profit Warning
•	  UPDATE 3-P&G profits lower, stock falls after sales warning. 
•	 Fund managers feeling  cautious  but not Bearish about Microsoft
•	 Medical-Products Company Merit Medical Issues Another  Profit Warning
•	  Procter & Gamble 3rd Quarter Net 52 Cents/Share Including Charges 
•	 Capstead Mortgage, Facing Rising Costs, Issues  Profit Warning
•	  UPDATE 1-Microsoft gives fund managers reason to pause. 
•	  Hikari Tsushin Slashes Outlook Again; Disappoints Market 
•	 Continental surprises with a profit; It had warned of red ink in quarter
•	  Continental Airlines Reports Profit, Beats Analysts' Estimates 
•	 Harrah's reports Q1 net share  decline .
•	  Lucent Hits Target In Quarter It Couldn't Afford To Miss 
•	  Maytag's 1st-Quarter Net Fell 13% But Beat Analysts' Reduced Expectations 
•	  Acclaim Posts 2nd-Quarter Loss In Line With Earlier Warning 
•	  U.S. blue chips rally at midday, Nasdaq slides. 
•	  Nasdaq down 212 in late afternoon, Dow holds gains. 
•	  Nasdaq down 202 in late afternoon, Dow holds gains. 
•	  MONEYLINE 
•	  UPDATE 4-Wells Fargo to buy Utah's First Security. 
•	 Business briefs; Nation & World
•	  Hilfiger stock plunges after weak earnings; Fashion house sees continued sluggish sales 
•	  U.S. stocks hold gains, top tech shares lead indices. 
•	  UPDATE 3-Tommy Hilfiger sees Q4 profits off. 
•	 UPDATE 2-Tellabs shares drop after  profit warning .
•	 UPDATE 2-Tellabs shares drop after  profit warning .
•	  Nightly Business Report 



 Europe Stock Focus:Buyback Unlikely To Revive Stagecoach 

 By Nathalie Boschat 
746 words
28 April 2000
06:44
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 LONDON -(Dow Jones)- A share buyback is seen unlikely to revive investor confidence in Stagecoach Holdings PLC (U.SGS), the U.K. transport company firmly out of stock market favor. 

 Stagecoach shares have been smacked by a profit-warning, management upheaval and poor outlook and now trade at a sharp discount to their peers. 

 But aside from speculation that Stagecoach's management is considering taking the company private, few analysts see a reason for the shares to recover, buyback or not. 

 "Why would you want to buy into a company which is likely to struggle for the next twelve months?" said Gert Zonneveld, analyst with WestLB Panmure, who keeps a neutral stance on the stock. 

 Stagecoach closed Thursday at 63.5 pence, down 2.3% or 1.5 pence. The share has fallen 58% since the start of the year, compared with a 3.9% drop by the FTSE-250 index. It fell 31% in 1999, compared with a 33% gain by the index. 

 Stagecoach's 4.4 historical price/earnings ratio compares with 7 for rival FirstGroup PLC (U.FGP), 9 for National Express Group PLC (U.NXP) and 5.8 for Arriva PLC (U.AVA). 

 The shares slid last year amid general disenchantment with the transport sector and concerns about Stagecoach's acquisitions in the U.S. 

 In April the company warned of flat profits at its U.K. bus divisions because of rising fuel and labor costs. It has said Coach USA, which it bought last year, faces similar problems, which would hurt margins until next year. 

 The shares were also hit by the sudden departure of Mike Kinski as chief executive in February. He was replaced by Keith Cochrane, the former finance director. There have also been questions about the appointment of Martin Griffiths, group business development manager, as finance director. Some had hoped for the appointment of an outside candidate. 

 Alongside the April 3 profit warning, Stagecoach said it would buy back shares worth up to GBP250 million with the proceeds from the GBP1.4 billion disposal of its rolling stock leasing business, Porterbrook. 

 Cochrane denies the buyback is the first step to take the company private. "We have no plans to go private and we think the share buyback is the best way to enhance shareholder value," he told Dow Jones Newswires. The shares nevertheless have slipped 9% since the buyback was announced. 

 Credit Lyonnais Securities' Alastair Gunn said the stock should benefit from the buyback, which he adds will enhance earnings by 21% next year. 

 "Stagecoach is very lowly rated at the moment. If you're a holder of the stock, you'd be a lunatic to sell shares if the company is a buyer," he said, adding he sees the break-up value of the stock at 130 pence. He said the buyback should keep the stock at least at around 70 pence. 

 Others are skeptical the stock has much potential to rise above that level. "Any positive effect from the share buyback will be shortlived as the company is not allowed to buy its own shares during the closed period," said Roger Elliott, analyst with Salomon Smith Barney. That period starts May 1 and lasts through to mid-June, when Stagecoach reports earnings for the year ending April 30, 2000. 

 So far, Stagecoach's purchases have attracted nothing but sellers looking for a quick profit, Elliott said. 

 The profit warning triggered a spate of downgrades by analysts, but Cochrane played down such concerns. 

 "All we've done is bring down analysts' expectations on Coach USA margins from 17% to around 14% for the next financial year," he said. "We're still talking about double-digit margins and we're confident we can start growing them again after that, thanks to cost-savings." 

 Delivering on Coach USA, focusing on the U.K. rail refranchising process and growing sales in the U.K. bus market are Stagecoach's top priorities to reverse its fortunes on the stock market, he added. 

 But investors are likely to remain sidelined until tangible signs of improvement appear, observers say. 

 "The poor news flow may have some time to run," said HSBC analyst Damian Brewer. He cut Stagecoach to reduce from hold and his price target to 59 pence from 114 pence after the profit warning. 

 -By Nathalie Boschat; Dow Jones Newswires; 

 44-(0)20-7842-9268; nathalie.boschat@dowjones.com 

53029

Document dji0000020010805dw4s024qs




 Medical Assurance drops after Q1  profit warning . 

310 words
28 April 2000
17:14
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, April 28 (Reuters) - Shares of Medical Assurance Inc. tumbled on Friday after the medical liability insurer warned that first-quarter operating earnings would fall far below Wall Streets expectations. 

 Shares of the Birmingham, Ala.-based company fell over 30 percent, or 6-5/8 to 13-5/8 in New York Stock Exchange trade, making the stock the Big Board's largest percentage loser. 

 The company late Thursday forecast first-quarter earnings in the range of 30 cents to 35 cents a share, as much as 43 percent below analysts consensus predictions of 53 cents, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. In last year's first quarter the company earned 46 cents a share 

 The company said the lower-than-expected earnings in this year's first quarter resulted from "deteriorating legal trends." 

 The company, which insures doctors and hospitals against malpractice lawsuits, said it was slowing the release of money from reserves set aside to pay claims as opposed to adding cash to those reserves. 

 "We will continue to evaluate these trends as we refine our pricing and our reserve estimates in the wake of substantial increases in frequency and severity" of claims, said Medical Assurance's Chairman and President, A. Derrill Crowe. 

 He said the company's "basic business is sound," and added it was implementing rate increases, tightening underwriting, and aggressively moving to cut expenses. 

 "We are taking these steps, and are willing to accept the short-term consequences, to ensure that we are one of the long-term survivors in an industry that will come under increasing pressure in the year ahead, as indicated by these trends," Crowe said. 

 Medical Assurance expects to announce first-quarter earnings May 4. 

 ((David Brinkerhoff, New York Health Desk, 212-859-1870, david.brinkerhoff@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw4s01nay


 Upcoming Earnings Report Means Another Judgment Day for Insurance Giant Aon 

 Melissa Wahl 
868 words
28 April 2000
KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Chicago Tribune - Illinois
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 Another day of reckoning comes next week for Aon Corp., once among Chicago's best-performing companies but now an insurance giant struggling to keep investors happy. 

 For the past three quarters, Aon has fallen short of Wall Street's earnings expectations, most notably in the fourth quarter, when earnings including special charges dropped 91 percent, to $13 million, or 5 cents a share. That was 10 cents a share worse than analysts had expected before Aon issued a profit warning. 

 Now investors are waiting to see if Aon will meet analysts' expectations of47 cents a share for first-quarter earnings, which will be announced Thursday. 

 If it misses again, the stock is likely to continue foundering. It has been trading in the mid-$20s, considerably lower than its mid-$40s prices of a year ago, amid an overall downturn in insurance stocks. 

 The company is giving no guidance for first-quarter results and has not publicly outlined a detailed plan for working its way out of its earnings slowdown, which stems largely from competitive pricing pressures and high computer integration costs after Aon's numerous acquisitions over the past few years. 

 But at Aon's annual meeting last week, Chief Executive Patrick Ryan acknowledged that the company had grown too quickly through acquisitions. "We are suffering some indigestion in the integration of these businesses," Ryansaid. 

 He also said that Aon's "major acquisition phase is substantially complete." The insurance brokerage is expected to continue making small acquisitions. 

 Officials at Aon say that no executive officer of the company will receive a bonus this year for the company's 1999 performance. Ryan's bonus already had been cut by 48 percent in 1999, to $990,000, because the company did not perform up to the board's standards in 1998. 

 Despite the growing pains, Ryan and analysts say Aon had to grow quickly in order to remain a player in the rapidly consolidating insurance brokerage business. 

 "We built the franchise from a regional into a global company in four years. It was faster than we would have liked, but we didn't have a choice ifwe wanted to be a leader," said Ryan, whose company is the second-largest insurance brokerage in the world, after Marsh & McLennan Cos. 

 Analysts say the rapid expansion has positioned Aon well for the future. The company has 600 brokerage and consulting offices in 120 countries, with about 40 percent of its revenue coming from outside the United States. 

 With insurance prices for commercial clients beginning to rise after more than a decade, Aon, which specializes in placing commercial insurance, could come out ahead of the competition. 

 "As the insurance markets begin to improve, that may benefit Aon as much or more than anybody else," said Jamie Inglis, an insurance analyst with Philo Smith & Co. in Stamford, Conn. 

 In the meantime, Aon has to prove that it can meet Wall Street's earnings expectations. That means straightening out its computer integration issues and getting all of its 600 offices on the same system. 

 Combining so many different companies "was a much more daunting task, particularly with systems integration, than we had thought," said spokesman Joseph Shenton. "But we have the reins in our hands very tightly now and are in the process of fixing it." 

 Part of the remedy includes putting new people in charge. June Drewry, fo rexample, was hired by Aon last year as its new chief information officer, in charge of technology spending. 

 And in March, Kenneth LeStrange became the new head of Aon's commercial insurance brokerage. LeStrange is expected to help improve the company's productivity by cross-servicing clients--that is, helping them with their risk management needs and doing it from anywhere in the world that they operate. 

 That kind of cross-servicing depends on Aon's computers being able to talk to each other, the very systems integration that has been cutting into earnings. 

 "Once everything is on a common platform, our ability to serve customers will be immense. It saves time and money and can be done very efficiently," Shenton said. 

 He said Aon knew it was having integration problems in the 1998 third quarter, when the company reported disappointing earnings for the first time in over a decade. 

 But, Shenton said, "we did all right until the fourth quarter of 1999, when it really turned around and bit us." 

 Although the company's stock price is hurting, investors and analysts seem to believe Aon will get its house in order. 

 Analysts talk about a bright future for the company once its expensive integration issues are sorted out, and agree with Aon that the acquisitions were necessary for the company's future. 

 "It's to Aon's credit that it engaged in an active and aggressive series of acquisitions," said Ken Zuckerberg, an insurance analyst with Keefe, Bruyette & Woods in New York. 

 And there were no hard-hitting questions at the company's annual meeting. One person asked when the stock price might improve, to which Ryan said, "Every effort we're making is to increase shareholder value." 

Document krtbn00020010807dw4s00udm


 Business 
 MONEYLINE 

 Stuart Varney, Willow Bay, Greg Clarkin, Lisa Leiter, Terry Keenan, Jim Moret, Louise Schiavone, Bruce Francis, Peter Viles, Steve Young 
8,344 words
26 April 2000
23:30
CNNfn: Moneyline News Hour
MNYL
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 STUART VARNEY, CNNfn ANCHOR, MONEYLINE:  Tonight on MONEYLINE, a Wednesday washout on Wall Street: Stocks retreat sharply all across the board. 

 WILLOW BAY, CNNfn ANCHOR, MONEYLINE:  Fueling the fire: inflation fears on evidence of big demand for big-ticket goods. Will two key reports out tomorrow show a runaway economy? 

 VARNEY: After-the-bell results from a struggling cyberstar: When will Amazon (URL: http://www.amazon.com/) turn a profit? Can Jeff Bezos drive the stock back into the stratosphere? 

 BAY: And the biggest IPO ever, going to market in one of the most volatile markets Wall Street has ever seen: awaiting the debut of AT&T (URL: http://www.att.com/) Wireless. 

 ANNOUNCER: This is the MONEYLINE NEWS HOUR. Reporting tonight from New York, Stuart Varney and Willow Bay. 

 BAY: Good evening. A frantic Friday sell-off nearly two weeks ago was triggered by a report showing that the economy may be overheating. 

 VARNEY: Could it happen again tomorrow? That`s the question that got the hazard lights flashing today on Wall Street. 

 Stocks fell in a bruising and broad-based sell-off: investors on high alert ahead of two crucial reports on economic growth and employment costs. 

 The Dow fell nearly 180 points, giving back most of the recent powerhouse gains of yesterday, and the Nasdaq fell 81 points. That`s a disturbing follow-up after posting the second-biggest point gain ever. That was just yesterday. 

 Clearly, the anxiety began to build as the session wore on: the growing fear that tomorrow`s reports will show an economy that`s still too hot for the Fed. 

 Greg Clarkin reports. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 GREG CLARKIN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Inflation jitters shot back through Wall Street, sending stocks sharply lower, the sell- off triggered by concern that two key economic reports due out tomorrow will show signs of rising prices. 

 CHRIS WOLFE, J.P. MORGAN: Well, what are the things that investors will be shifting their focus to? And we think it`s going to be -- it will end up on economic data. So what happens tomorrow? We have a couple of releases. We have the Employment Cost Index and we have GDP. 

 CLARKIN: Weakness in interest-rate-sensitive financials and "old economy" stocks drove the Dow industrials lower in late-morning trading. Midday, the blue-chip index cut some of the early losses, but last-minute selling pushed it back below the 11,000 level, down 179 points for the day. 

 Dragging the Dow lower, J.P. Morgan (URL: http://www.jpmorgan.com/) and Citigroup (URL: http://www.citi.com/) , and for  the second day in a row, 3M (URL: http://www.mmm.com/) . Procter & Gamble (URL: http://www.pg.com/) and DuPont (URL: http://www.dupont.com/)   all lower as well. 

 There were some pockets of strength in the broader market. Nortel Networks (URL: http://www.nortelnetworks.com/) , Scientific-Atlanta (URL: http://www.sciatl.com) and Viacom (URL: http://www.viacom.com/) led the way after beating earnings estimates, followed by Dow components Hewlett-Packard (URL: http//www.hp.com/) and General Motors (URL: http://www.gm.com) . The Nasdaq staged a short, sharp rally in the late morning on good earnings news. But it lost steam just as quickly, widening its losses to close at 3,630, down 81 points on the session. 

 Some market watchers attribute the losses to pure and simple profit-taking. 

 RICHARD CRIPPS, LEGG MASON: The only way that the investors who outperformed the market did that was by being very overweighted in technology. And then now that that momentum has been broken, they`re using any kind of strength to do some selling to reduce their exposure to technology. 

 CLARKIN: Investors unloaded Intel (URL: http://www.intel.com/) , Sun Microsystems (URL: http://www.sun.com/) , eBay (URL: http://www.ebay.com/) , and JDS Uniphase (URL: http://www.jdsunph.com/) . But drkoop (URL: http://www.drkoop.com/) was back in favor as investors anticipated a takeover one day after the company said it was nearly out of cash and issued a profit warning. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 CLARKIN: Now one veteran strategist says it`s unlikely tomorrow`s economic data will clear a path for the market. He calls the current situation a "back and forth, back and filling process" that will continue to frustrate investors who had grown accustomed to the momentum typical of the market a little bit earlier this year -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: So, that analyst, that veteran analyst that you`re quoting there does not expect market-friendly numbers tomorrow, they`re going to be negatives? 

 CLARKIN: He says either way he`s not going for something that could really kind of blaze a path for the market, that would just set a direction over the next half dozen sessions or so. What he`s looking for is something that could actually impact the market tomorrow but may not have much of an impact beyond that. 

 VARNEY: Fair enough, Greg Clarkin reporting. Thank you, Greg. 

 BAY: Another after-the-bell surprise from an Internet company. One day after eBay beat the street, Amazon.com reported a 95 percent jump in revenue. The e-tailer said first-quarter sales came in at $574 million, beating Wall Street estimates. But Amazon also reported a loss of 35 cents a share, a penny smaller than expected but nearly three times larger than last year. Amazon also said its U.S. book division would continue to post profits, and that it expects full-year profits from its music and DVD units as well. 

 But that did little to boost its stock in after-hours trading, down 1 1/4. Its shares gained more than one during the regular session. 

 VARNEY: The recent stock market volatility has not hampered plans for what`s expected to be the biggest IPO in U.S. history. After the bell, AT&T priced its wireless tracking stock at $29.50 a share, right in the middle of its expected price range. 

 AT&T Wireless group will offer 360 million of those shares to the public, raising more than $10.6 billion. The parent company, AT&T, that stock down a point-and-a-half today after jumping more than $3 yesterday. We`ll have  more on that tracking stock, as well as Amazon`s latest results, a little later in this program. 

 BAY: Taking a closer look at the numbers behind today`s downturn: the S&P 500 fell 16 points, or more than 1 percent. Declining issues on the big board beat out advancers, though it wasn`t a total washout. Another encouraging statistic, 56 stocks hit new highs while 46 hit new lows. 

 The blue chip losers, however, cut across the corporate terrain. United Technologies(URL: http://www.utx.com/) , American Express (URL: http://www.americanexpress.com/) , GE (URL: http://www.ge.com) , ALCOA (URL: http://www.alcoa.com/) , and Honeywell (URL: http://www.honeywell.com/) among the 22 Dow stocks that closed lower today. But losses on Wall Street did not guarantee big gains in the bond market. The 10- and 30-year issues were little changed. 

 VARNEY: What hurt the bond market early today was news of a sharp rebound in demand for durable goods. Orders for big-ticket items, that is, jumped 2.6 percent in March after falling in both February and January. It`s yet another piece of a disturbing puzzle that Alan Greenspan is forced to solve: Why has the Fed`s move to tighten credit failed to cool off the economy? 

 Lisa Leiter looks at today`s reports and previews the ones that really have investors nervous. They`re due out tomorrow. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 LISA LEITER, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Orders to U.S. factories for big-ticket items -- such as cars, computers and appliances -- shot up more than expected in March, the first gain this year. Demand for electronic goods, from computer chips to communications equipment, drove the increase, rising 9.7 percent. Transportation orders climbed almost 2 percent. And orders for metals edged higher as well. 

 ROBERT BRUSCA, CHIEF ECONOMIST, ECOBEST: Economists don`t like to look at  this report one month at a time, but we do have strong trends, strong trends in shipments. Orders are holding up well. The order backlogs now are in a very strong run. 

 LEITER: The March reading on durable goods orders is the third report this week to show the economy still barreling ahead despite five interest rate hikes by the Federal Reserve. Sales of existing homes jumped unexpectedly last month, and a key gauge of consumer sentiment is holding up despite the stock market`s wild gyrations. 

 CHARLES LIEBERMAN, FIRST INTERNATIONAL SECURITIES: They reinforce the message that the economy is doing very well, that the labor market is likely to continue to tighten, and that overall the economy is growing too quickly, and therefore the Fed will have to continue  to tighten monetary policy. 

 LEITER: The question now is whether tomorrow`s pair of inflation reports could force the Fed to act more aggressively, especially in light of last month`s sharp jump in consumer prices. 

 MICHAEL MORAN, DAIWA SECURITIES: We are starting to turn a corner, and I think the direction of the movement is upward. It`s probably going to be gradual, but I think there very definitely is going to be some upward pressure on prices. 

 LEITER (on camera): Most economists agree. The consensus calls for the inflation indicator in the gross domestic product to rise by 2 1/2 percent with a separate report on labor costs up by 1 percent. 

 Lisa Leiter, CNN Financial News, Chicago. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: Next on MONEYLINE, paging Nextel shareholders. 

 VARNEY: We`ll ask the chief executive of that wireless company why better-than-expected results did not stop the stock from selling off today. 

 BAY: And Steve Ballmer: He scored a home run with Microsoft (URL: http://www.microsoft.com/) employees, but what about investors? The impact of unleashing an options bonanza. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Now let`s check tonight`s "MONEYLINE Movers" for you. Energizer Holdings (URL: http://www.energizer.com/) down nearly 4 points in its first earnings report since being spun off from Ralston Purina earlier this month. The battery company said that second-quarter earnings dropped 29 percent due to lower sales. BMC Software (URL: http://www.bmc.com/) jumped almost 3 3/4. That company was upgraded by several analysts after it beat fourth-quarter estimates late yesterday by 2 cents a share. Vertel Corporation  (URL: http://www.vertel.com/) jumped nearly 5 1/4, after Nokia (URL: http://www.nokia.com/) announced it will use the company`s software to help manage its digital wireless network. And F5 Networks (URL: http://www.f5.com/) plunged to 14 1/2, trading at nine times its normal volume. It met second-quarter profit estimates, but it missed the so-called whisper number by 3 cents a share. F5 Networks helps companies manage their Internet traffic 

 and content. 

 BAY: In tonight`s "Tech Watch," increased cell phone bills a big boost to Nextel Communications (URL: http://www.nextel.com/) . The wireless phone carrier trimmed its losses in the first quarter, amid a huge jump in new customers and the highest monthly customer billing among wireless carriers. On average, Nextel said U.S. customers had a monthly bill of $72, much higher than the $50 average of other carriers. Nextel said revenues jumped 63 percent, to just over $1 billion in the first quarter. Its loss from operations fell to 83 cents a share, down sharply from last year and 12 cents smaller than expected. Today, its stock fell more than 7 1/2, after gaining $12 yesterday. Over the past year, Nextel shares have soared 166 percent, a big boost for the company`s largest shareholder, cellular pioneer Craig McCaw. 

 Joining us now from Washington D.C., the president and CEO of Nextel, Tim Donahue. 

 Tim, welcome. 

 TIM DONAHUE, PRESIDENT & CEO, NEXTEL: Thank you. I`m glad to be here. 

 BAY: Good earnings news, and your stock slides 7 points. What do you think was worrying investors? 

 DONAHUE: You know, you`re right. We had an absolutely terrific quarter. And if I had to speculate, Willow, I would say the whole segment was down  today, and I think a lot of the portfolio managers are rebalancing their wireless portfolios to make way for the AT&T wireless IPO. I think that`s probably the major cause. 

 BAY: This industry is consolidating rapidly, and you are one of its stars. Do you plan to stay independent? Do you want to? And can you? DONAHUE: Well first of all, I`ll answer the third question first. Absolutely we can. We focus on business-to-business customers, and we have a product that`s differentiated from anything else in the marketplace, and the numbers speak for themselves. We had domestic additions of 540,000 for the first quarter, our best quarter ever, and revenues exceeding $1 billion. So clearly, we have the wherewithal to go it alone. We don`t plan to merge or consolidate with anyone at this point. You never know in this industry, as you pointed  out, consolidation is happening at a rapid pace, but we feel very good about our position and we`re in this thing for the long haul. 

 VARNEY: Sir, I believe that your company relies very heavily, if not exclusively, on Motorola for equipment to match your network. Is it not dangerous to rely entirely on one supplier? 

 DONAHUE: I think that you could make that argument, Stuart, but the reality of the world is that we are Motorola`s largest customer worldwide, and we get their attention clearly. In terms of the competitiveness of their pricing of both infrastructure and handsets, we are very comfortable with it, and most importantly, we are very comfortable with the height in technology that Motorola (URL: http://www.mot.com/) has developed. 

 So I would say, in a nutshell, that Motorola has been a great partner for Nextel, and once again, I think that the numbers speak for themselves. 

 VARNEY: Can I just get back to your earnings report. You narrowed the loss, that`s true, but are you allowed to tell us some kind of timeframe as to when you will start making a profit? 

 DONAHUE: Yes, I expect that we will turn profitable sometime in the first or second quarter of `01, and I say that because it will depend upon how aggressively we continue to grow the business. If I see opportunity to continue to grow the business at a rapid rate, we will do that, and so that may push earnings out a little bit farther, but for now, I would say first or second quarter of `01. 

 BAY: Tim Donahue from Nextel, thank you for joining us tonight. 

 DONAHUE: Thank you. 

 VARNEY: And here`s what is still to come on MONEYLINE: Microsoft shares take another beating. Its latest stock option plan is good for frustrated employees. What about investors? We`ll go behind the numbers. 

 BAY: Plus, a protest and a parent`s legal bid in the Elian Gonzalez custody battle. We will have that story and more in our news digest. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Microsoft stock down nearly 1 1/2 today. And it is now off 43 percent from its 52-week high. Yesterday, Microsoft announced plans to introduce 70 million new options to its employees. The news was a hit with employees, obviously, but what about Microsoft shareholders? 

 Terry Keenan takes a look behind the numbers. 

 TERRY KEENAN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: Stuart, for years now, stock options have been the currency of the new economy, a source of almost instant riches for employees lucky enough to work for a company with a high-flying stock. But what if that stock goes into a nosedive? As Microsoft quickly figured out, in this tight job market, employees are going to demand an adjustment. Microsoft did just that yesterday. With its shares down 40 percent this year, it moved quickly to reload employee options at the new lower price, a move that transfers about $2 billion worth of option value to the company`s 34,000 employees. But what about Microsoft`s three million or so shareholders? Today there was grumbling that while Microsoft moved quickly to soothe employee morale and losses, it is not taking similar steps to increase  shareholder value. 

 Here`s the issue: For years, Microsoft has been sitting on a mountain of cash, cash it has rarely used to buy back its shares, preferring instead to use the money to invest in other technology companies. The corporate line was that with Microsoft shares sky high, these other investments were a better use of Microsoft`s money. But now, with Microsoft stock trading at 16-month lows, some big Microsoft shareholders are wondering whether the company thinks its stock is a bargain. I asked Microsoft chief operating officer Bob Herbold whether any big buyback was in the works. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 BOB HERBOLD, COO, MICROSOFT: Well, we always keep that in mind, and we certainly may well be reaching for that. On the other hand, that`s an issue that`s one that we work regularly with the board of directors, and we will continue to do exactly that. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 KEENAN: In other words, don`t bank on any big buyback anytime soon. Meantime, look for other technology companies to adjust their employee stock options plans to reflect the wild declines in their stock price. At least a half dozen dot.coms have announced they will be rejiggering their options. And Carl Schmitt, the pay expert at WestWard Pay Strategies, says he`s working on new compensation plans for at least a half dozen other public companies -- Stuart, Willow. 

 BAY: Thanks, Terry. 

 The father of Elian Gonzalez, asking a court for the right to represent his son. 

 Jim Moret has that story and more now in the "MONEYLINE News Digest" -- Jim. 

 JIM MORET, CNNfn ANCHOR: Thank you, Willow. Two new legal maneuvers today in the Elian Gonzalez custody fight. Elian`s father is asking a federal court to grant him the right to speak for Elian in all legal matters. At the moment, the boy`s great-uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez, has that power. 

 Meanwhile, the government is calling on the same court to deny a motion by the Miami relatives restricting access to Elian. 

 In Washington, Lazaro Gonzalez joined a protest today outside the Justice Department. About 200 demonstrators gathered to show their anger at the government`s raid to take Elian. 

 Also today, North Carolina: President Clinton announced new initiatives to bridge the so-called "digital divide." Among the moves, millions promised by Qualcomm (URL: http://www.qualcomm.com/) and MCI WorldCom (URL: http://www.mciworldcom.com) to promote rural Internet access. And a gun industry group has joined seven firearms companies in a suit against city, state and federal official. They`re accused of restraint of trade. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 BOB DELFAY, NATIONAL SHOOTING SPORTS FEDERATION: Our lawsuit arises from a politically motivated scheme in which these bureaucrats have sought to bully law enforcement professionals into buying handguns not based on  the quality or safety of the product, but on capitulation by the manufacturer to a regulatory agenda concocted by these officials. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 MORET: The suit calls for an injunction against officials who restrict handgun purchases by police departments to companies subscribing to a national code of conduct. All those stories and much more ahead on "THE WORLD TODAY," 8:00 p.m. Eastern, 5:00 p.m. Pacific. 

 Now back to Stuart and Willow. 

 BAY: Thanks, Jim. 

 VARNEY: Here`s what`s ahead on MONEYLINE: history`s biggest media merger. 

 BAY: The CEOs christen the deal with high-fives, but some advocacy groups give it the thumbs down. Could they keep AOL (URL: http://www.aol.com/) and Time Warner (URL: http://www.timewarner.com/) apart? Stay with us. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: A blowout quarter tops tonight`s other corporate headlines. The entertainment giant nearly doubled first-quarter profit forecasts with earnings of 11 cents a share. Viacom said strong results at its MTV and Showtime cable stations helped push revenue to more than $3 billion. The MTV network posted 20 percent growth in advertising revenue. 

 Late today, Viacom announced the U.S. Department of Justice will not oppose its merger with CBS (URL: http://www.cbs.com/) . 

 Shareholders of MCI WorldCom and Sprint expected to vote Friday on their companies` planned merger. But the big hurdle still lies with regulators. 

 Today, the European Commission warned that MCI WorldCom might have to sell its UUNet division in order to win clearance for the deal. Recently on MONEYLINE, MCI WorldCom chief Bernie Ebbers said he`s willing to sell Sprint`s Internet backbone division, but not -- definitely not -- UUNet. 

 Checking investor reaction to that: Viacom shares soared more than 2 1/2 points today. MCI WorldCom down just over a point. 

 BAY: And an update now on another pending megamerger, the one between America Online and Time Warner, the parent of this network. Today was the last day for public comment on the deal, unveiled earlier this year. And a coalition of consumer watchdog groups didn`t let it pass by without registering their opposition. 

 Louise Schiavone reports from Washington. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 LOUISE SCHIAVONE, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Four watchdog groups claiming to represent millions of American consumers are calling on the Federal Communications Commission to reject the AOL- Time Warner merger as  fundamentally bad for consumers. 

 MARK COOPER, CONSUMER FEDERATION OF AMERICA: We`re down to two huge companies that will have over half the cable subscribers, three- quarters of the high-speed Internet subscribers, half the narrow-band subscribers, half the most popular programming -- two companies! Who`s going to compete with these companies? 

 SCHIAVONE: On the last day for public comment, the groups filed a petition with the FCC suggesting three main remedies: that AT&T divest its holdings  in Time Warner in order to prevent what the groups say would be excessive concentration of control over cable and broadband Internet access. 

 The groups also asked that AOL divest its holdings in DirecTV, a satellite competitor to cable companies. And they`re calling for enforceable open access to the nation`s cable systems. 

 GENE KIMMELMAN, CONSUMERS UNION: This pre-emptive strike of some restructuring is necessary to prevent the kinds of problems that Judge Jackson has identified with Microsoft. 

 SCHIAVONE: Defending the pending merger deal, AOL and Time Warner responded in a joint statement. "This merger will deliver tremendous benefits to consumers, bringing people around the world more choice and more convenience, and accelerating the rollout of broadband services." 

 Meanwhile, smaller Internet service providers are filing their own comments with the FCC, charging AOL threatens to squeeze them out and complaining that AOL has not moved fast enough to open its private messaging system. 

 (on camera): Analysts say consumer protests are unlikely to block the merger, but they could help regulators demands and business concessions embraced in the final deal. 

 Louise Schiavone for CNN Financial News, Washington. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: Coming up in our next half hour, the king of online retailing finds it hard to make money over the Web. BAY: Full coverage on Amazon.com`s results and the company`s forecast for when it will turn a profit. 

 VARNEY: AT&T brings a wireless tracking stock to market. But is Wall Street ready to sink its teeth into this mammoth issue? 

 BAY: And Alan Greenspan will get major news tomorrow on growth and inflation. Will it tilt the Fed`s hand to tighten credit even more aggressively? 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: In tonight`s headlines: The only thing predictable about this stock market is its volatility. The day after a runaway rally, a full-scale retreat. Those wild swings are not scaring away the resident bull at Lehman Brothers (URL: http://www.lehman.com/) . We`ll hear from investment strategist  Jeffrey Applegate and get some portfolio pointers. And could unfortunate timing throw cold water on the biggest IPO in U.S. history? AT&T takes the plunge and takes its wireless business public. 

 BAY: First more on our top story: $18 billion in market value and not a penny in profits. The latest earnings report from Amazon.com, once again, shows no earnings and its losses are growing. The Web superstore lost $122 million in the first quarter, or 35 cents a share. But that loss was slightly smaller than expected. However, the stock lost ground in after hours. It`s down 1 1/4 in active trading. 

 Bruce Francis has more on Amazon`s first quarter, and whether profits are in its future. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 BRUCE FRANCIS, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Amazon.com still is not profitable, but that goal is a little closer. Amazon said that it sold $574 million worth of goods in the quarter, practically doubling levels of a year ago and ahead of expectations. Although the loss of 35 cents a share was substantially less than the previous quarter, it was triple last year`s levels, and just a penny better than analysts expected. Amazon also said that more business came from repeat customers. 

 Amazon`s best news came in its outlook, chief financial officer Warren Jenson saying that, "Looking ahead, we expect our U.S. books, music, and 

 DVD/video segment to be profitable on a pro-forma operating basis for the full year 2000." 

 Books are already profitable. 

 "In addition," Jenson says, "we believe that over the next three quarters combined, Amazon.com will be operating cash flow positive enough, we expect, to more than cover our planned capital expenditures." 

 Translation: Amazon won`t need to offer more stock or take on more debt in order to keep going. 

 To some analysts, this is clearly not the Amazon.com that just last fall seemed relatively unconcerned about profits. 

 ANTHONY NOTO, GOLDMAN SACHS: I think the company has put in place the operational and financial-planning considerations to decrease the variance between expectations and actual results, and I think that makes a good environment for large money institutions to come in and  build positions, and I think that`s the point where we`re at. I think all the bad news is in the stock, frankly. 

 FRANCIS: It`s not like there`s much room for more bad news. Amazon stock has lost just about half its value since its peak last December. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 FRANCIS: Analysts seemed generally positive on a conference call just about a little while ago with the company, but they are a positive bunch. According to First Call, which compiles, analysts ratings, the pros on Wall Street are almost exactly as bullish now, as they were when the stock topped out. 

 BAY: A positive bunch, but they see Amazon as basically on track. 

 FRANCIS: Amazon is moving toward profitability, and that`s what they want to see. This company also sounds a lot more disciplined, when it comes to the bottom line. Certainly they did back in the fall. 

 BAY: Discipline being a good thing these days. 

 VARNEY: Bruce Francis, thank you. 

 Amazon was one of the few stocks to gain momentum on Wall Street today. The rest of the market couldn`t shake off worries about tomorrow`s economics news, specifically the employment cost index. That`s an inflation indicator, and it`s said to be watched very closely by Alan Greenspan, and the fear only got worse as the closing bell approached. The Dow industrials were down about a hundred points for most of the afternoon, Those losses doubled the final half hour of trading. The Dow did recover slightly just before the close. It was down 179 at that closing bell, but it was back below 11,000. 

 As for the Nasdaq, it ended near its low for the day, bogged down by sharp losses in big caps Sun Microsystems and Yahoo!. The index down more than 81 points. That`s more than 2 percent. Behind today`s pull back, painful memories of the historic sell-off of April 14, a sell-off set off by inflation fears. 

 Peter Viles has more on Wall Street`s anxious wait for new economic numbers. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 PETER VILES, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): You couldn`t see it on Wall Street Wednesday, but it was there all right, the ghost of inflation, real enough to scare the market into a broad sell-off on the eve of two key economic reports, and to remind investors who`ve been fixated on the volatility of high-tech stocks that the Fed is still fighting a determined war on inflation. 

 MARSHALL ACUFF, SALOMON SMITH BARNEY: This is a classic setting where investors gradually are coming around to reality. It takes a while for investors to see reality, but they`re beginning to sense that perhaps with the strong growth in the economy, we`re picking up more inflation, which means, potentially, a more aggressive Fed. 

 VILES: Those fears knocked down Dow stocks such as 3M, Intel, American Express, Procter & Gamble and United Technologies, and again, knocked the momentum out of the bulls. 

 JIM MELCHER, BALESTRA CAPITAL: I would say the outlook is not very good at the moment, until you get into the summer, where you might see a  summer rally. 

 VILES: In addition to the first estimate of first-quarter economic growth, the government tomorrow releases the employment cost index, a measurement of wage inflation. 

 The strength of the economy has been a shock to economists. Just four months ago, when there were still fears of a Y2K recession, the consensus was that the economy would grow at a 2 percent clip in the first quarter. In January, economists under the estimate to 3 percent, in March, to nearly 4 percent. Early this month, they saw a 4.7 percent growth. Now the consensus expectation is 6 percent growth, which is well beyond what most economists believe the Fed will tolerate. 

 (on camera): The Fed has now raised rates five times in 10 months, but there is no convincing evidence the economy is slowing down, which means hopes for a quick end to this war on inflation are beginning to look like wishful thinking. 

 Peter Viles, CNN Financial News, New York 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: The stock market faces a crucial test tomorrow, with the biggest IPO Wall Street has ever seen. AT&T takes its wireless business public at $29.50 a share, in the middle of the expected price range. The offering comes in a weak market for IPOs. Still, it`s set to raise more than $10 billion for AT&T. 

 And as Steve Young reports, a good chunk of the offering will go to those who know the company best. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 STEVE YOUNG, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): AT&T Wireless will trade under the symbol AWE, but the initial public offering may have trouble inspiring awe with investors, coming as it does in a weak market for new offerings. 

 But for about 150,000 workers, AT&T Wireless` initial public offering could be better than a chicken than in every pot. Ten percent of the shares in the biggest IPO in history are reserve for employees on an equal basis, from the top executive to the telephone lineman. By offering the tracking stock, AT&T can cash in, raising an expected $10.5 billion for its wireless division, its hottest business, without relinquishing control. 

 JEFF HINES, DEUTSCHE BANC ALEX BROWN: You`ve got a lot of companies that come from the old telecom world, maybe the wire-line world, looking to monetize their wireless divisions, put them in a stronger position by raising capital so that they can better compete in the whole trend in telecom, and that is voice going to wireless and then Internet to wireless. 

 YOUNG: Some analysts see a world in which all voice traffic gets on to the world`s phone network through a wireless phone or other wireless gizmo, a world in which a lot of data traffic and Internet e-commerce also takes a wireless path. Wireless revenue is already growing much faster than plain old telephone service, known in the trade as "POTS." 

 HINES: The industry has been growing its revenue between 20 and 25 percent a year recently. It`s conceivable you could accelerate above the 25 percent level. 

 YOUNG: The phone giant is making amends. When it`s Lucent equipment unit was spun off four years ago, it didn`t let employees buy any IPO insider 

 shares in the new company. The offer of wireless shares for employees, who have four hours to respond tonight, is suspected to be oversubscribed, and all stock will be doled out proportionately. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 YOUNG: Then at the start of trading tomorrow, the public will pile in. Despite the market chill, IPO experts expect the stock to open with at least a small premium, but they say, depending on how the rest of the market trades, AT&T wireless could become AWE shucks -- Stuart, Willow. 

 BAY: Is there any concern that there`s a glut of telecom offerings out there. 

 YOUNG: Given the growth of wireless, there seems to be a feeling that wireless is hot and dot.com is not. 

 BAY: OK. Steve Young, thank you 

 VARNEY: Just ahead on MONEYLINE: the bull of Lehman Brothers. 

 BAY: We`ll talk to investment strategist Jeffrey Applegate, who says the S&P could jump from 1,400 to 1,700 within a year. His optimistic market outlook, next. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: In tonight`s "MONEYLINE Focus": a prominent Wall Street bull jumping into the stock market with both feet. Jeffrey Applegate, chief investment strategist at Lehman Brothers, is encouraging investors to keep 80 percent of their portfolio in stocks. And for Mr. Applegate, that means sticking with technology. 

 He tells MONEYLINE that the worst is over for the Nasdaq and that many tech stocks are now undervalued. He`s that bullish on stocks, even though he predicts the Federal Reserve will hike interest rates three more times. 

 Joining us now is Jeffrey Applegate. 

 Jeffrey, welcome back to MONEYLINE. 

 JEFFREY APPLEGATE, CHIEF INVESTMENT STRATEGIST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Thanks, Stuart. Good to be here. 

 VARNEY: You`re a -- you`re a big hitter on Wall Street, and is your principal message tonight that yes, the worst is over for those tech stocks? 

 APPLEGATE: We think so, yes. If you look at what tech did, you had an enormous run-up from October really to early March, really like a rocket ship: a huge run. And you went into really overvalued territory, and then you obviously had this enormous decline through April 14, where 

 on our measure of valuation you got to undervalued. So we think the worst is by us. 

 VARNEY: Traditionally, you`ve liked the big-name big caps of the Nasdaq: the Ciscos and the Suns of this world. Is that still where you would put money? Is there still room for growth there? 

 APPLEGATE: Yes, we`re still overweighting the companies that are involved really in building this new global utility that we call the Internet and we`re underweighting the service providers. So it`s more those names that you mentioned: the Cisco Systems (URL: http://www.cisco.com/) , the EMCs (URL: http://www.emc.com/) , the AMATs (URL: http://www.appliedmaterials.com/) , et cetera. 

 VARNEY: Now, if they were so overvalued back in March, surely there must be other groups of second- and third-tier tech stocks that are now clearly undervalued? Biotechnology, for example, other truly beaten- down areas. You`re not prepared to go back into those yet? 

 APPLEGATE: Sure, well, it all depends where you think you`re going to get some of the best final demand. And if you look at the household demand, the corporate demand, locally and globally, you really can`t find many sectors where it`s as robust as it is for technology. 

 VARNEY: Top picks. Give me three of your top picks at this point, if you can. 

 APPLEGATE: Well, we could use Cisco, AMAT and EMC. 

 VARNEY: Stick with those? 

 APPLEGATE: Yes. 

 VARNEY: Three rate hikes by the Federal Reserve. Surely, that`s a big red flag out there for the stock market, isn`t it? 

 APPLEGATE: Well, I think the stock market is a discount mechanism, so that`s not going to come as a big surprise to the market. And we`d argue that most of those rate hikes are in the market. So a few bumps in the road but not a lot out there. 

 VARNEY: Have you ever seen a period in the past where this Federal Reserve embarked on a series of -- a long and protracted series of rate hikes? If we get three more, it will be a total of eight, I believe, in about a 12-, 13-month period perhaps. 

 APPLEGATE: Right. 

 VARNEY: Have you ever seen a period like that where the stock market didn`t react with a downside move? 

 APPLEGATE: Well, you had a downside move last year. We`ve had one this year. And the Fed`s already tightened five times. So keep in mind, if they go three more times, a lot of what`s already happened and what is about to happen we think is already in the stock prices. And if you look at valuation for the overall market, the price- earnings multiple has come down. So finance 101 does work. 

 VARNEY: So why don`t you like some of those old-line economy stocks? You`re all tech all the time. 

 APPLEGATE: Right. Well, just because a stock is cheap doesn`t necessarily mean that it`s valuable. So again, you need to come back and look at how robust is the final began and what`s the appropriate valuation  for a stock relative to the market. And our call on that is that we still come down with tech. 

 VARNEY: So to you it`s growth, growth, growth? That`s what you`ve got to look for in the future? That`s what it`s all about here? 

 APPLEGATE: Well, I think in particular now that the Fed is still on a tightening mode, which means growth is going to get on the margin somewhat more scarce. So those that can consistently deliver growth should become more valuable. 

 VARNEY: Last question: Clearly, you`re bullish -- 1,700 on the S&P this year? 

 APPLEGATE: Well, four to 12 months. So... 

 VARNEY: We`re 1,460 now. We`ve got -- there`s another 240 points on the upside. Do my math briefly. That`s -- what? -- 15 -- 15-odd percent, something like that. 

 APPLEGATE: Exactly. VARNEY: And that`s the extent of it, is it? 

 APPLEGATE: Well, that`s the next 12 months. We don`t see an end in sight to this bull cycle as yet. 

 VARNEY: Jeffrey Applegate from Lehman, thanks so much for joining us. 

 APPLEGATE: Thank you. 

 VARNEY: Willow. 

 BAY: Stuart, a legal battle erupts over T-shirts. We`ll tell you why Nike (URL: http://www.nike.com/)  and adidas (URL: http://www.adidas.com/) are both fighting mad at Wal*Mart (URL: http://www.wal-mart.com/) . 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: An after-the-bell disappointment for shareholders of troubled MicroStrategy (URL: http://www.microstrategy.com/) . The embattled software maker reported a first-quarter loss of 42 cents a share. That is three times bigger than expected. Last month, its stock took a nosedive after the company said it will restate revenues and profits for the past two years. 

 MicroStrategy lost $2 1/2 in after-hours trading and is down 91 percent from its high of $333 set earlier this year. 

 VARNEY: Checking tonight`s "MONEYLINE Movers" for you: Gerber (URL: http://www.gerberscientific.com/) down nearly four -- that`s about 25 percent -- after the industrial systems maker warned that disappointing earnings would force the company to cut more than 200 jobs worldwide. 

 Papa John`s lost four on concerns that the pizza company may face shrinking profit margins. Dain Rauscher Wessels cut its rating on the stock. 

 Oxford Health Plans gained nearly 3 1/2 points -- that`s 21 percent -- after the health insurer blew past profit forecasts and forecast stronger growth ahead. 

 BAY: In other corporate news tonight, rival footwear makers Nike and Adidas are teaming up, filing suit against Wal-Mart. The suit, filed in a New York federal court, charges Wal-Mart with selling counterfeit Nike and Adidas T-shirts at its Sam`s Club wholesale stores. Wal-Mart said it had not seen the suit, but that it had no reason to believe its merchandise was not authentic. 

 Chevron blew past profit forecasts, earning more than $1 billion, benefiting from this year`s huge run-up in oil prices. Chevron stock gained over a point. 

 And iVillage, a women-oriented Web site, announced the departure of chief financial officer Craig Monaghan to become CFO of AutoNation. The news came  as iVillage (URL: http://www.ivillage.com/)  after the bell said it lost less money than forecast in the quarter. Ahead of the report, the stock closed up fractionally, but it has had a terrible year and is worth less than half of its IPO price. 

 VARNEY: And now tonight`s "Sector Focus": biotech stocks on a tear. Boosting the sector? A rosy outlook and a legal victory for Amgen (URL: http://www.amgen.com/) . A federal judge  ruled that two biotech firms violated an Amgen patent for its top-selling anemia drug, Epogen. The ruling came as Amgen matched first-quarter profit forecasts and lifted its expectations for full-year earnings. 

 Checking some biotech stocks: Amgen, for example, that jumped nearly three points on the day. CelGene, which unveiled a licensing pact with Novartis for its hyperactivity drug, Ritalin, gained almost four. MedImmune was up nearly two, and Genentech rose just under seven points. 

 BAY: Next on MONEYLINE, the overwhelming fear on Wall Street that we have an economy that`s still too hot to handle. 

 VARNEY: We`ll preview tomorrow`s critical reports with economist David Jones. Back in a moment. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: The latest economic report out today gave little comfort to inflation hawks. Orders for big-ticket goods last month shot up for the first time this year, with five interest rate hikes seemingly unable to restrain a demand. The last time we talked with economist David Jones, and that was last month, he sounded optimistic that the Fed wouldn`t hike rates a half point at the next meeting, in part because core inflation remained quite low. Well, that was before the government reported strong inflation numbers, news that decimated the markets nearly two weeks ago. 

 Mr. Jones joins us now with more on whether his Fed outlook has changed. 

 David, welcome. 

 DAVID JONES, AUBREY G. LANSTON: That always makes me nervous when you cite -- it`s a conspiracy between you and Stuart. 

 (LAUGHTER) 

 BAY: Clearly, the markets are worried. Are you concerned? Has the Fed got a real problem on its hands here? 

 JONES: They do. I still don`t think they`re going move a half a percentage point. They`re not going to have that kind of shock effect, but I do think they will move more than the markets think. Most people are betting on a quarter-point tightening in May, another one in June. 

 BAY: Which is what you thought last time you joined us. 

 JONES: And that`s what I thought. And I think now, given two things: how strong the economy is -- as you`ve noticed -- but more important than that, we`re starting to see actually some evidence of inflation, the core consumer price numbers we have. 

 BAY: And that`s what concerns you most. 

 JONES: And that is the key. It`s no longer a threat of inflation to the Fed, it`s the fact we`ve begun to see hints of inflation itself. 

 BAY: Tomorrow, GDP expected to increase 6 percent, the cost index expected to rise just under 1, around .9 percent. Is that what you think we`ll see? 

 JONES: I think we`ll see 6 or even higher in GDP, and remember, that follows 7.3 percent in the fourth quarter of last year. An optimistic estimate of our noninflationary speed limit in this economy is no higher than 4 percent, and so the economy has to slow down. But the employment cost index may be more important than any other number, because it`s again, a piece of evidence. I think it will be 1 percent or higher, more than the market thinks. 

 BAY: One percent -- is that alarming to you? And if it`s higher than 1 percent, is that a real cause for concern? 

 JONES: It is. 

 BAY: How do the markets react to that? 

 JONES: Because that picks up on this idea that we`re starting to see. Look back at consumer prices in March. Home costs, home ownership costs up. Air fares up. Cost of construction services up. You add to it higher wages and benefits in terms of this cost index. All of these are coming together now, on the heels of a very strong economy, it`s  a red flag for the Fed. 

 BAY: You always point out the Fed is not controlling the market, but watching the markets quite closely. Is that helping them out at all? Are they liking what they see in this market correction? 

 JONES: The Fed has two things in this market. One is private borrowing costs had to go up, including mortgage rates, including corporate bond yields, and they have trended higher in the last year or so. But the other thing that the Fed had to have is a stock market that was correcting together cool off demand and growth. So we have to have more. 

 BAY: No. Three hikes on the way is what you`re saying. 

 David Jones, as always, thanks. 

 JONES: Thank you. 

 BAY: Up next, "Ahead of the Curve," some of what you need to know tonight before those markets open tomorrow. 

 VARNEY: You`re watching MONEYLINE. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Now checking some of what investors will be keeping an eye on tomorrow, we have more profit reports due out. On tap, the insurance company Aetna, investors looking for first-quarter results of around $1.12 a share. MCI WorldCom, expected to report earnings of 43 cents a share. That will be up about 80 percent from last year. Today, the European Commission warned MCI WorldCom that it may have to sell its UUNet division to help win a clearance of its merger with Sprint. Nokia also expected to report earnings. Around 16 cents a share is expected. That will be four cents better than last year. And also  due out is Starbucks, investors looking for second quarter results of 12 cents a share. That will be up 2 cents from a year ago numbers. 

 And as we mentioned, two very important reports on the economic front: gross domestic product and the employment cost index. Plus, the much awaited AT&T Wireless IPO, expected to debut on Wall Street tomorrow. Late tonight, it was priced at $29. 50 a share. 

 BAY: Finally tonight, Uncle Sam wants you, fast, and he`s willing  to pay up. It`s just the latest example of an incredibly tight labor market. The U.S. Air Force said today it was offering a $5,000 bonus to each and every recruit who enlists and enters basic training before May 31. The Air Force, along with the rest of the military, has found it hard to convince young people to give up a career in the private sector. And considering that the Air Force can`t issue any lucrative stock options, cold, hard cash may be just what a military headhunter needs. 

 VARNEY: Five-thousand dollars is a great deal of money. 

 BAY: That`s a lot of money. 

 VARNEY: And all you got to do is step forward, claim it before May 31. 

 BAY: Sign up. There`s time. 

 VARNEY: I`m a little old, a little old. 

 (LAUGHTER) 

 BAY: That is MONEYLINE for this Wednesday. I`m Willow Bay. 

 VARNEY: And I`m Stuart Varney. Thanks for joining us, indeed, and good night from New York. 

 "CROSSFIRE" is next. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and  programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by  eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s  personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may  infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript  for purposes of litigation. 

Document mnyl000020010808dw4q0007x




 Gerber Scientific Shares Tumble After  Profit Warning 

428 words
26 April 2000
13:23
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 SOUTH WINDSOR, Conn. -(Dow Jones)- Shares of Gerber Scientific Inc. hit the skids after the manufacturing equipment maker said it expects to lay off employees and close some factories in a bid to cut costs. 

 The company said it will take a fourth-quarter restructuring charge in connection with the moves and warned that results for the period will be worse than expected, in part because of weak European currencies and lower-than-anticipated new product shipments. 

 "Gerber's sales in European local currency are strong, but a steep decline in the euro is offsetting this strength and adversely impacting profit margins," Michael J. Chesire, chairman and chief executive of South Windsor, Conn.-based Gerber Scientific (GRB). 

 "In assessing the impact of foreign currencies on our business model, we are compelled to lower our overall cost structure to maintain our competitiveness," Chesire added. 

 Gerber didn't say how many employees would be affected or where lay-offs would occur. 

 The company employs some 2,700 people. Its Web site indicates that it has 100 customer-support units world-wide, as well as major facilities in Connecticut, Massachusetts, Oklahoma, Texas, Canada, England, Belgium, Denmark and Germany. 

 Gerber Scientific said it expects to report earnings between eight cents and 12 cents a share before restructuring charges for the quarter ended April 30. In the year-earlier period, the company earned $8.08 million, or 36 cents a share, on $149.57 million in revenue. 

 Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial had been expecting earnings of around 42 cents a share. 

 In addition to the restrucuring charge, the company expects to post an inventory write-down of $6 million, or 17 cents a share, for higher-than-expected costs on initial production runs of certain new products. 

 Gerber Scientific also said it expects to report full-year earnings, before restructuring charges, of $1.16 to $1.20 a share, compared with $1.29 a share a year ago. 

 The company expects full-year revenue will be about $605 million to $610 million, compared with $595 million a year earlier. 

 The mean estimate of four analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial was for earnings of $1.66 a share for 2000. 

 The company expects to release fourth-quarter and full-year results on May 25. 

 Gerber Scientific makes manufacturing equipment for industries that produce, among other things, apparel, furniture, sign-making and prescription eyewear. 

 (Compiled from Dow Jones Newswires and other sources) 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020020330dw4q0191o




 UPDATE 3-P&G profits lower, stock falls after sales warning. 

 By Marguerite Nugent 
838 words
26 April 2000
01:08
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 (adds details on share repurchase paragraph 14, adds analyst comment from paragraph 6, rewrites in part) 

 CLEVELAND, April 25 (Reuters) - Procter & Gamble Co. on Tuesday posted its first decline in quarterly operating profit in more than eight years and cut its estimate of sales growth in the current quarter, prompting a 9.5 percent drop in its stock price. 

 Shares of P&G tumbled on the New York Stock Exchange after the Cincinnati-based maker of Tide laundry detergent and Crest toothpaste lowered its estimate of sales volume growth in the quarter ending in June to 5 to 7 percent. 

 That's down from an estimate of 7 to 8 percent provided by P&G a month ago, when it also slashed its profit forecast for the fiscal third quarter ended March 31, partly because of higher raw materials costs. 

 In the event, P&G on Tuesday said third-quarter earnings fell 11 percent to $923 million, or 64 cents a diluted share, before charges of $170 million related to its reorganization announced in 1999. 

 While the operating profit was in line with the company's March warning and Wall Street expectations, P&G's shares ended down 6-3/4 at 64-1/4 on the New York Stock Exchange as analysts focused on the cut in its sales growth estimate and expressed concern that the future earnings picture is being masked by one-time items. 

 "It is the quality of earnings in the current quarter that is a surprise," said Banc of America Securities San Francisco-based Managing Director William Steele. "There has to be general caution over the company's near-term outlook." 

 P&G said it was still comfortable with the range of analysts' earnings estimates for the fourth quarter - the consensus being for a 15 percent increase to 64 cents according to First Call/Thomson Financial. But Steele said it will only achieve that through a combination of asset sales, a lower tax rate and reduced bonus payments to management. 

 Banc of America reduced its recommendation on P&G shares to a "market perform" from a "buy" as a result of the announcement. "That says we certainly weren't thrilled," said Steele. 

 Including the reorganization charges, P&G earned $753 million, or 52 cents a share in the third quarter. Revenues in the quarter rose 6 percent to $9.78 billion. 

 Durk Jager, P&G's chairman and chief executive, said the company was disappointed by the results and was "redoubling" efforts to manage costs and achieve "the earnings growth we are capable of." 

 Further investment in new initiatives will hold back the performance of its various business units, P&G said, though net profit will increase on the back of rising corporate income, which reflects asset disposals and lower tax rates, among other things. 

 The company has been looking to divest products that it no longer considers part of its global core base. On Tuesday, it said Scottsdale, Ariz.-based Dial Corp. would buy the company's Coast brand deodorant soap. 

 P&G has said that it would consider share repurchases as a way to help bolster earnings per share. Simon Denegri, spokesman for the company, said that during the quarter, P&G bought back about 1 percent of its shares outstanding for about $800 million. 

 "We will continue to use free cash flow and our borrowing capabilities to pursue share repurchases," he said. 

 On March 7, P&G said it expected fiscal third-quarter earnings per share to drop 10 to 11 percent from the year-ago quarter, compared with its prior forecast of a 7 to 9 percent increases. The stock plunged about 30 percent after the news. 

 Among P&G's business units, Fabric and Home Care sales rose 7 percent to $2.94 billion in the March quarter, while net earnings dropped 26 percent to $283 million, reflecting investments in new products. 

 Paper sales dropped 3 percent to $2.93 billion and net income fell 27 percent to $218 million, because of unfavourable cost trends and a competitive market environment. 

 Food and Beverage sales dropped 11 percent to $976 million, while earnings fell 32 percent to $50 million due to the sale of the Hawaiian Punch brand the prior year and commodity-related pricing actions. 

 Health Care products showed the strongest gains in the quarter, aided by the addition of the Iams pet food line, with sales up 52 percent to $1.06 billion and net earnings up 74 percent to $101 million. 

 Sales of Beauty Care products grew 7 percent to $1.90 billion on a 4 percent unit volume increase fuelled by premium initiatives in hair care, including the Physique styling=led hair care line. Earnings were up 13 percent to $231 million, bolstered by premium-priced products. ((Cleveland newsroom 216-579-0077)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw4q01d0w




BUSINESS
Fund managers feeling  cautious  but not Bearish about Microsoft

CAL MANKOWSKI; Reuters News Service   
630 words
25 April 2000
Houston Chronicle
HOU
3 STAR
5
English
Copyright 2000. Hearst Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

NEW YORK - The sharp drop in Microsoft Corp.'s share price on Monday - after news that the Justice Department may recommend breaking up the company - rattled portfolio managers, although some took a contrarian view, saying they may boost their positions in the widely held stock.

The shares lost more than 15 percent of their value on Monday as sources said the antitrust case against the world's largest software maker could lead the government to carve the company up along product lines. That prospect - combined with fundamental concerns after Microsoft's warning last week of slowing profit growth - put a big dent in the allure of a longstanding favorite of fund managers.

"Microsoft has been one of the largest components of the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index and the largest on Nasdaq, said Debra McNeill, manager of the Fremont Growth Fund. "It's not like like they can run and hide." With so much visibility, she added, "when people start trading out of the stock, it gets hit a lot harder."

With 1,022 separate mutual funds owning Microsoft, according to Morningstar Mutual Funds, the issue is of more than a passing interest.

Microsoft dropped 12 5/16 to close at 66 5/8 on Monday in trading on the Nasdaq - after touching 65, its lowest since late 1998, earlier in the session. The stock has traded as high as 119 15/16 last December.

While fund managers for the most part said they were reluctant to increase their positions in Microsoft until the dust settled on the antitrust case, they also said Monday's decline may signal a classic buying opportunity.

"There is a lot of uncertainty on the table," said Jeffrey Van Harte, senior vice president at Trans-America Investment Management. "It's probably one of those points in time when you can smell an opportunity. The fundamentals are there, it's still a great franchise."

Van Harte said he was making some "incremental" additions of Microsoft to portfolios where the stock currently makes up about 2.5 percent of the investments. But he said it was unlikely Microsoft shares would climb back to $100 any time soon.

McNeill, who holds the stock in her portfolio, said it would probably be wise to wait until all of the news comes out on the antitrust case before buying more Microsoft shares.

One fund manager said he was convinced the latest drop in Microsoft was an opportunity to buy back shares he had sold recently. "I'm going to be buying it all day today," said Fred Sears, manager of the Investors Capital 20 Fund.

Calling the stock "incredibly cheap," Sears said, "I'm not trying to catch the bottom, but I don't think this is going to go a lot lower." Sears also said he did not think Microsoft will be broken up.

On Monday, a source familiar with the government case said regulators are close to making a recommendation that Redmond, Wash.-based Microsoft be split along product lines making the Office software business separate from the Windows computer operating system.

Indeed, some portfolio managers thought the stock was being dumped because the company had two hot issues on its hands at once.

"It isn't just the court case; it is also sluggish fundamentals," said Shannon Reid, manager of the $800 million Evergreen Select Strategic Growth Fund.

Reid said the company's fiscal third-quarter earnings announcement last Thursday revealed "a bit of a shortfall." The company's chief financial officer said the 23 percent year-over-year profit increase in the third quarter would be followed by only single-digit profit growth in the fourth quarter.

Document HOU0000020120818dw4p00z7y




 Medical-Products Company Merit Medical Issues Another  Profit Warning 

300 words
25 April 2000
10:28
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- In its second warning in two weeks, Merit Medical Systems Inc. warned that its first-quarter earnings will be hurt, this time because a customer, Clinipad Corp., won't be able to pay for products delivered. 

 The company, based in South Jordan, Utah, said Tuesday that Clinipad's operations were suspended after the Food and Drug Administration in March widened a voluntary recall of products including swabs, ointments and dressings over concerns about possible bacterial contamination. The products had been sold to hospitals, blood banks and pharmacies. In February, Clinipad closed a plant and cut 200 jobs after failing an FDA inspection. 

 The company said Clinipad warned that it probably won't be able to pay for $340,000 worth of products delivered, and Merit Medical (MMSI) said it will take a first-quarter charge of the same amount. 

 Merit said results from operations excluding the charge would have been profitable. 

 For the year-earlier quarter, Merit Medical posted earnings of $565,000, or eight cents a share, on sales of $17.7 million. 

 Shares of Merit Medical tumbled on April 13 after the maker of disposable medical products said it expected first-quarter earnings to come in "significantly" below year-ago levels because of inventory backlogs and costs associated with a new operating system, as well as lower-than-expected product sales. 

 Merit Medical makes disposable medical products used in interventional and diagnostic procedures, particularly in cardiology and radiology. Such products include syringes, inflation devices, high-pressure tubing and connectors, waste handling and disposal products, a disposable blood pressure transducer, disposable hemostasis valves and contrast management systems. 

 (Compiled from Dow Jones Newswires and other sources) 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020020330dw4p018en




 Procter & Gamble 3rd Quarter Net 52 Cents/Share Including Charges 

874 words
25 April 2000
13:52
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


Procter & Gamble Co. - Cincinnati
   3rd Quar March 31:
                      2000         a 1999
Sales           $9,783,000,000             ....
Net income       b 753,000,000             ....
Shr earns (basic)
 Net income              b .55             ....
Shr earns (diluted)
 Net income              b .52             ....



a. Not available.


 b. Includes charges of $170 million related to the company's organization 2005 program. Core earnings, which exclude Organization 2005 costs, were 68 cents a basic share and 64 cents a diluted share. 

 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) said net sales for the quarter rose 6% to $9.78 billion, on 7% unit volume growth. 

 Exchange rates, primarily the euro, depressed sales by about 2% 

 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) said third quarter meet its revised earnings expectations. 

 In March, the company said citing a number of 'unexpected events' involving cost management, issued a profit warning for the third and fourth quarters. The company had lowered its earnings-per-share guidance for the third quarter by 13 to 14 cents a share to 64 or 65 cents. It also reduced its fourth-quarter earnings expectations by three to four cents to 64 or 65 cents. 

 The mean estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by First Call/Thompson Financial is for third-quarter net income of 64 cents a share. 

 Top-line growth remains strong, although earnings are clearly disappointing, Procter & Gamble said. 

 Procter & Gamble said it is redoubling efforts to manage costs, while remaining focused on driving profitable sales growth through superior innovation, marketing, and go-to-market capabilities. 

 The company confirmed it is comfortable with the current range of analysts' earnings estimates for the fourth quarter. 

 Procter & Gamble also noted that the increase in net income for the fourth quarter will result from an increase in corporate income. 

 Business unit results will be hurt by by continued investment in new initiatives. 

 The company said fourth quarter volume growth is currently estimated at 5% to 7%. 

 The mean estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by First Call/Thompson Financial is for fourth-quarter net income of 64 cents a share. 

 For the fourth quarter ended June 30, 1999, Procter & Gamble earned $799 million, or 58 cents a share a basic share and 55 cents a diluted share, excluding a charge of $385 million related to the cost of the company's Organization 2005 program. 


   9 Months March 31:
                      2000          1999
Sales             $30,290,000,000  $28,675,000,000
Net income        c 3,026,000,000        3,349,000
Avg shrs (diluted)  1,432,900,000      000,000,000
Shr earns (basic)
 Net income                c 2.23             2.46
Shr earns (diluted)
 Net income                c 2.10             2.30



Figures in parentheses are losses.



c. Includes charges of $427 million related to the company's
organization 2005 program. Core earnings, which exclude Organization
2005 costs, were $2.23 a basic share and $2.10 a diluted share.



Procter & Gamble said worldwide net sales for the nine months rose 6%
to $30.29 billion, on 5% unit volume growth, despite a 1% impact of
unfavorable exchange rates.



For the third quarter ended March 31, 1999, the company reported net
income of $1.04 billion, or 76 cents a basic share and 72 cents a
diluted share, on sales of $9.23 billion.



Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) said Fabric and Home Care continued to
deliver strong top-line results, with unit volume growth of 8% behind
global initiative activity and solid base business performance in North
America.



Sales for this segment increased 7%, to $2.94 billion in the third
quarter, including a 2% negative currency impact. Overall global market
share grew, with Latin America delivering substantial share progress and
top-line growth in the face of heavy competitive activity.



The company said net earnings were $283 million, a decline of 26% in
the this segment. The results reflect the significant investments behind
new initiatives including Mr. Clean Wipes and Fit Fruit and Vegetable
Wash, the expansion of Dryel, Swiffer, and Mr. Proper Wipes, customer
marketing programs and increases in petroleum-related costs.



The company said Paper results reflected unfavorable cost trends and a
difficult competitive environment. Volume was up 1% on the quarter, as
solid volume progress in the tissue and towel business offset weakness
in diapers and the prior year divestiture of Attends in feminine care
products.



Procter & Gamble said Paper sales of $2.93 billion were down 3%,
driven by a 3% negative currency impact.



Rising pulp prices, capacity expansion and initiative investments
depressed earnings, bringing them down 27% to $218 million. Charmin and
Bounty posted solid gains behind product upgrades and geographical
expansion.



The segment announced pricing plans to counter rising
commodity-related raw material increases, effective for the fourth
quarter, the company said.



Procter & Gamble said Beauty care posted solid growth in the third qua
and the business generated earnings growth despite heavy initiative
investments.



Beauty Care sales grew 7% to $1.90 billion on a 4% unit volume
increase fueled by premium initiatives in hair care, including the
Physique styling-led hair care line. Earnings increased 13% to $231
million, bolstered by premium-priced products.



-Daniel Martinez; Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5400.


Document dj00000020010805dw4p01pi6




 Capstead Mortgage, Facing Rising Costs, Issues  Profit Warning 

272 words
25 April 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
C21
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 DALLAS -- Mortgage investor Capstead Mortgage Corp., stung by rising borrowing costs, warned it will incur a loss of as much as $90 million in the second quarter as it pares fixed-rate loans from its residential-mortgage portfolio. 

 The firm, which yesterday appointed a new board, including a majority named by New York real-estate concern Fortress Investment Group LLC, will sell nearly a quarter of its $8.7 billion portfolio and focus on short-maturity and fixed-rate securities, it said. 

 The company made the announcement after the markets closed. As of 4 p.m., Capstead was up 12.5 cents at $3.6875 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. 

 Wesley R. Edens, 38 years old, the chairman of Fortress, was named chairman and CEO. He succeeds Ronn K. Lytle, 58, who will be vice chairman and one of two former Capstead members on the board. 

 In December, Fortress paid $51.2 million for a 16% stake in Capstead and agreed to acquire an addition five million shares if its nominees were elected to the board. A spokeswoman said all four were approved at the company's annual stockholders meeting Friday. 

 The company warned "the remainder of the year will likely be very difficult for Capstead . . . should the Federal Reserve continue to increase interest rates." It said further rate increases may prompt a lowering of common stock dividends, which have been cut twice in the past six months. 

 The board also authorized a reverse 1-for-2 split in its common shares, reducing shares outstanding to 22.5 million, effective May 9. 

Document j000000020010807dw4p00b74




 UPDATE 1-Microsoft gives fund managers reason to pause. 

 By Cal Mankowski 
812 words
24 April 2000
23:25
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, April 24 (Reuters) - The sharp drop in Microsoft Corp.'s share price on Monday - after news that the Justice Department may recommend breaking up the company - rattled portfolio managers, though some took a contrarian view, saying they may boost their positions in the widely held stock. 

 The shares lost more than 15 percent of their value on Monday as sources said the antitrust case against the world's largest software maker could lead the government to carve the company up along product lines. That prospect - combined with fundamental concerns about Microsoft's business after its warning last week of slowing profit growth - put a big dent in the allure of a longstanding favourite of fund managers. 

 "Microsoft has been one of the largest components of the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index and the largest on Nasdaq, said Debra McNeill, manager of the Fremont Growth Fund. "It's not like like they can run and hide." With so much visibility, she added, "when people start trading out of the stock, it gets hit a lot harder." 

 With 1,022 separate mutual funds owning Microsoft, according to Morningstar Mutual Funds, the issue is of more than a passing interest to the investment management business. Funds that bought the stock soon after its debut in the 1980s have reaped enormous paper profits. 

 But Microsoft dropped 12-5/16 to close at 66-5/8 on Monday in trading on the Nasdaq - after touching 65, its lowest since late 1998, earlier in the session. The stock has traded as high as 119-15/16 last December. 

 While fund managers for the most part said they were reluctant to increase their positions in Microsoft until the dust settled on the antitrust case, they also said Monday's decline may signal a classic buying opportunity. 

 "There is a lot of uncertainty on the table," said Jeffrey Van Harte, senior vice president at TransAmerica Investment Management. "It's probably one of those points in time when you can smell an opportunity. The fundamentals are there, it's still a a great franchise." 

 Van Harte said he was making some "incremental" additions of Microsoft to portfolios where the stock currently makes up about 2.5 percent of the investments. But he said it was unlikely Microsoft shares would climb back to $100 any time soon. 

 McNeill, who holds the stock in her portfolio, said it would probably be wise to wait until all of the news comes out on the antitrust case before buying more Microsoft shares. 

 One fund manager said he was convinced the latest drop in Microsoft was an opportunity to buy back shares he had sold recently. "I'm going to be buying it all day today," said Fred Sears, manager of the Investors Capital 20 Fund. 

 Calling the stock "incredibly cheap," Sears said, "I'm not trying to catch the bottom, but I don't think this is going to go a lot lower." Sears also said he did not think Microsoft will be broken up. 

 On Monday, a source familiar with the government case said regulators are close to making a recommendation that Redmond, Wash.-based Microsoft be split along product lines making the Office software business separate from the Windows computer operating system. 

 Indeed, some portfolio managers thought the stock was being dumped because the company had two hot issues on its hands at once. 

 "It isn't just the court case, it is also sluggish fundamentals," said Shannon Reid, manager of the $800 million Evergreen Select Strategic Growth Fund. 

 Reid said the company's fiscal third-quarter earnings announcement last Thursday revealed "a bit of a shortfall." The company's chief financial officer said the 23 percent year-over-year profit increase in the third quarter would be followed by only single-digit profit growth in the fourth quarter. 

 "The quarterly report reinforces in some people's minds the thought that maybe the market is moving away from Microsoft," Reid said. "Processing is moving away from the desktop and to the network." 

 "This is not a sell-off because of the break-up; this is a sell-off because of the quarter," said Ned Brines, member of a team that runs the Phoenix-Engemann funds. 

 While Microsoft hit its profit forecasts in the third quarter, it missed on revenues and guided analysts toward lower top-line estimates for the rest of this year and next, Brines said. 

 Whether managers thought the stock drop created a buying opportunity or reinforced any inclination to cut positions, there were few who were cheering for the idea of breaking up the company. 

 "I don't see consumers picketing Microsoft in Seattle because they feel they were ripped off," Van Harte said. 

 ((-Wall Street Desk/212-859-1732)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw4o01fkt




 Hikari Tsushin Slashes Outlook Again; Disappoints Market 

 By Yumiko Nishitani 
1,149 words
24 April 2000
13:44
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 TOKYO -(Dow Jones)- Hikari Tsushin Inc. (J.HKR or 9435) issued another profit warning Monday, and said it planned to reverse its expansion strategy. 

 The mobile phone distributor and Internet investor now projects a parent operating loss of Y11.6 billion for the current fiscal year ending Aug. 31, compared with an earlier projection of a parent operating profit of Y8.0 billion. 

 The outlook for the company's mobile phone sales and subscriptions has deteriorated due to falling fresh demand for mobile phones, adverse rumors surrounding Hikari, and the success of a new line of Internet-capable mobile phones made by NTT DoCoMo, Hikari said. Hikari doesn't have a marketing contract for NTT DoCoMo phones. 

 "The mobile phone market has fully matured, even to the extent (of leaving no room for growth). We can't survive as a mobile phone distributor. We will shift our focus more toward venture incubation and business-to-business mobile Internet businesses, partly through joint ventures," Hikari Tsushin President Yasumitsu Shigeta told a press conference. 

 "We failed to correctly judge prospects for the market and for the market shares of each carrier," he said. 

 To cope with the deteriorated environment for its mobile phone sales business, Hikari announced an end to the aggressive expansion of its flagship distribution business. 

 The stock market, which had been looking to Monday's press conference for possible buying incentives, was disappointed by the lack of strong measures to revamp Hikari's operations and by the second profit warning in less than a month. 

 Hikari shares ended Monday's session limit down at Y19,800, a 92% decline from the issue's Feb. 25 high, on disappointment over the announcement. 

 Analysts and traders say Hikari shares may fall towards Y5,000 to Y10,000 in the near term unless Hikari can somehow recoup its credibility in the market. 

 Briefly before the company's press conference, Hikari shares traded in a session for the first time since March 30 amid rumors that the company was poised to unveil one of a number of drastic moves, such as a capital-involved tie-up with a mobile phone carrier, traders said. 

 Since March 31, Hikari shares have been unable to attract bids within the daily limit, and have traded only at the market's close in proportional allotment conducted by the Tokyo Stock Exchange. 

 Proportional allotment is conducted on a limited amount of shares when there is broad imbalance of buy and sell orders. 

 "Speculators turned buyers of Hikari shares on the rumors. However, when they found out that the buyers were (mostly) foreigners (who were said to be relatively bullish on Hikari despite its recent falls), they rushed to sell off their holdings" in anticipation of strong selling in the near term, said a trader at a local mid-sized brokerage firm. 

 Foreign investors generally maintained their sell orders, even during the Easter break, while many local institutional investors suspended their sell orders ahead of the press conference only to renew them afterwards, traders said. 

 "The company betrayed the stock market with its now-collapsed myth of growth. It earlier mapped a business expansion plan with the target of 3,000 hit shops, and now it plans to cut the number to 900," said an equities manager who requested anonymity due to his company's underwriting role. 

 Hikari scrapped its plan Monday to raise the number of "hit shops" for its mobile phones to 3,000. The plan had been a major factor spurring investors to chase the company's shares to as high as Y241,000, or a price-to-earnings ratio of 721. 

 Hikari now plans to shut 545 of its 1,445 hit shops by August because of the mobile phone market's slim growth prospects, as well as the growing popularity of NTT DoCoMo phones. 

 Hikari is negotiating in a bid to obtain a distribution contract for NTT DoCoMo handsets. However, NTT Mobile Communications Network Inc. (J.NTX or 9437), the carrier of NTT DoCoMo phones, has not responded positively, Shigeta said. 

 Masatoshi Sato, investment information manager at Kankaku Securities, said, "the crucial weakness (in Hikari's mobile phone business strategies) is that it can't sell NTT DoCoMo handsets. In the past, mobile phones had only the telecom function, so Hikari enjoyed the advantage of its big sales network. 

 "Now that NTT DoCoMo phones have introduced the i-mode Internet-connection device, Hikari's mobile phone business without it would just shrink... Amid fears its become a growth stock that doesn't grow, Hikari shares will be left mainly in the hands of speculators who simply want to play a money game," he said. 

 Hikari is aiming to secure a full-year parent pretax profit of Y28.0 billion by offsetting the likely operating loss with capital gains from the sale of shares - the same method it used to report a pretax profit in the first half. 

 Hikari has already locked in Y23.9 billion of capital gains by selling its holdings in Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM), Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) and Mobilephone Telecommunications International Ltd. (J.MTI or 9438) in March and earlier this month. 

 The prospects for Hikari's venture investment business are unclear due to the current shaky sentiment globally on Internet stocks and Hikari's injured credibility, analysts said. 

 "Unrealized profits in the company's investment portfolio are clearly being eroded by the recent falls and cancellation of an initial public offering. It is a question how much in capital gains they can generate in the future," Kankaku's Sato said. 

 Japan Rating & Investment Information downgraded its rating on Hikari on April 12, claiming that the company's credibility may fall below those levels it needs in order to finance its investment business with fixed-term borrowings. 

 Hikari Monday returned a total of Y48.5 billion of short-term and long-term loans and canceled a credit commitment line to prepare for a possible further ratings cut, Managing Director Ko Gido said at Monday's press conference. 

 "Because the ratings agency kept its rating (on Hikari) under watch for possible further downgrade, we made the repayment to prepare for the possibility of a further downgrade and consequent request for early repayment," he said. 

 Hikari returned all of the Y24 billion 5-year, syndicate loans which it had held since November 1999. It returned Y24.5 billion of its short-term loans and canceled the commitment line which came with loans from Industrial Bank of Japan Ltd. (J.IBJ or 8302), Hikari said. 

 In turn, Shigeta provided Hikari with Y25.0 billion of loans through his wholly owned company with no collateral, he said. The funds come from the sale of Shigeta's holdings in Hikari when the company made its debut on the Tokyo Stock Exchange in October, he said. 

Document dji0000020010805dw4o021vz




BUSINESS
Continental surprises with a profit; It had warned of red ink in quarter

LAURA GOLDBERG; Staff   
568 words
21 April 2000
Houston Chronicle
HOU
3 STAR
1
English
Copyright 2000. Hearst Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

Despite an earlier warning that it could lose money in the first quarter, Continental Airlines reported a profit Thursday, beating Wall Street's estimate of no earnings by 21 cents a share.

However, the Houston-based airline's net income plunged from the same period a year ago, largely because of higher fuel prices.

The outlook for the next earnings report appears brighter, with the carrier turning in a strong performance in March and the price of oil falling.

"The quarter started on a weak note and ended on a very strong note and that bodes well for profits into the summer," said PaineWebber airline analyst Sam Buttrick.

Continental reported a profit of $14 million, or 21 cents per diluted share.

For first-quarter 1999, it had income, excluding one-time gains and charges, of $73 million, or 97 cents a diluted share.

That represented an 81 percent drop in earnings.

If one-time gains and charges are included in the company's first-quarter 1999 performance, earnings a year ago were $52 million, or 71 cents a diluted share.

Also during the first quarter of 1999, the airline picked up extra passengers because a sickout prompted American Airlines to cancel thousands of flights.

The most recent three months were "obviously a very tough quarter for Continental and the industry due to extremely high fuel prices," Buttrick said. "As a result, industry profits and Continental's were sharply impacted."

Continental was projected to break even for the quarter based on a survey of analysts by First Call/Thomson Financial.

Strong revenues, especially during March, helped it do better.

In fact, last month was the most profitable March in history, said Gordon Bethune, chairman and chief executive.

Revenues were up 11.5 percent for the quarter, jumping to $2.3 billion from $2 billion.

The airline spent $193 million more on fuel than in the same period a year ago and attributed $187 million of that to higher fuel prices.

It paid an average of 89.4 cents per gallon for fuel during the quarter, compared with 43 cents the year before.

Continental offset some costs with a fuel surcharge and a fare increase during the quarter, and it cut expenses. It also canceled fewer flights than expected.

Bookings for the summer look strong, said Greg Brenneman, president and chief operating officer.

"The message across-the-board in our company today is momentum," he said.

Even so, Continental's shares closed Thursday down 1 1/4 to 39 1/8.

James Higgins, an analyst at Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette, said he thought Continental performed well under the circumstances, adding that he didn't know why the stock price was down.

Continental, Higgins also said, wasn't well hedged on fuel costs in the first quarter. Sometimes airlines lock in prices for fuel in advance.

High fuel costs also hurt Continental's alliance partner, Northwest Airlines.

Excluding one-time gains, Northwest lost $41 million in the quarter, or 51 cents a share.

That was an improvement from the same period a year ago, when the carrier, excluding one-time gains, lost $47 million or 58 cents a share.

Northwest, which a year ago was still recovering from a 1998 pilots strike, saw its revenues increase from $2.3 billion to $2.6 billion.

Document HOU0000020120818dw4l00yky


 Continental Airlines Reports Profit, Beats Analysts' Estimates 

 Laura Goldberg 
560 words
21 April 2000
KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Houston Chronicle - Texas
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 Despite an earlier warning that it could lose money in the first quarter, Continental Airlines reported a profit Thursday, beating Wall Street's estimate of no earnings by 21 cents a share. 

 However, the Houston-based airline's net income plunged from the same period a year ago, largely because of higher fuel prices. 

 The outlook for the next earnings report appears brighter, with the carrier turning in a strong performance in March and the price of oil falling. 

 "The quarter started on a weak note and ended on a very strong note and that bodes well for profits into the summer," said PaineWebber airline analyst Sam Buttrick. 

 Continental reported a profit of $14 million, or 21 cents per diluted share. 

 For first-quarter 1999, it had income, excluding one-time gains and charges, of $73 million, or 97 cents a diluted share. 

 That represented an 81 percent drop in earnings. 

 If one-time gains and charges are included in the company's first-quarter 1999 performance, earnings a year ago were $52 million, or 71 cents a diluted share. 

 Also during the first quarter of 1999, the airline picked up extra passengers because a sickout prompted American Airlines to cancel thousands of flights. 

 The most recent three months were "obviously a very tough quarter for Continental and the industry due to extremely high fuel prices," Buttrick said. "As a result, industry profits and Continental's were sharply impacted." 

 Continental was projected to break even for the quarter based on a survey of analysts by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Strong revenues, especially during March, helped it do better. 

 In fact, last month was the most profitable March in history, said Gordon Bethune, chairman and chief executive. 

 Revenues were up 11.5 percent for the quarter, jumping to $2.3 billion from $2 billion. 

 The airline spent $193 million more on fuel than in the same period a year ago and attributed $187 million of that to higher fuel prices. 

 It paid an average of 89.4 cents per gallon for fuel during the quarter, compared with 43 cents the year before. 

 Continental offset some costs with a fuel surcharge and a fare increase during the quarter, and it cut expenses. It also canceled fewer flights than expected. 

 Bookings for the summer look strong, said Greg Brenneman, president and chief operating officer. 

 "The message across-the-board in our company today is momentum," he said. 

 Even so, Continental's shares closed Thursday down 1 1/4 to 39 1/8. 

 James Higgins, an analyst at Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette, said he thought Continental performed well under the circumstances, adding that he didn't know why the stock price was down. 

 Continental, Higgins also said, wasn't well hedged on fuel costs in the first quarter. Sometimes airlines lock in prices for fuel in advance. 

 High fuel costs also hurt Continental's alliance partner, Northwest Airlines. 

 Excluding one-time gains, Northwest lost $41 million in the quarter, or 51 cents a share. 

 That was an improvement from the same period a year ago, when the carrier, excluding one-time gains, lost $47 million or 58 cents a share. 

 Northwest, which a year ago was still recovering from a 1998 pilots strike, saw its revenues increase from $2.3 billion to $2.6 billion. 

Document krtbn00020010807dw4l00t8n




 Harrah's reports Q1 net share  decline . 

394 words
19 April 2000
17:36
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LAS VEGAS, April 19 (Reuters) - Casino giant Harrah's Entertainment Inc. on Wednesday posted a dip in year-over-year net income due to bad luck at its gambling tables and losses at a casino and startup airline company that it partially owns. 

 For the first quarter ended March 31, Las Vegas-based Harrah's , which has one of the most geographically diverse casino portfolios in the United States, posted first quarter earnings of $30.7 million, or 25 cents a diluted share, against $34 million, or 30 cents a share, a year earlier. 

 The results were in line with analysts' expectations which were revised earlier this week after Harrah's issued a profit warning. Previously, analysts had expected Harrah's to report earnings of 29 cents per share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 As Harrah's announced last week, a "well-below-average" table-games hold percentage, or the amount of cash the casino keeps from its gambling operations, at the company's Rio hotel and casino in Las Vegas, was responsible for much of the decline, cutting earnings by 9 cents per share. 

 Net income also was hurt by operating losses at its 43 percent-owned Harrah's New Orleans casino, which opened last October, and at its 48 percent-owned National Airlines, begun with investments by several private investors last May, to try to conveniently shuttle more customers into Las Vegas and other gambling cities. The losses from both operations amounted to 11 cents per share for Harrah's, the company said. 

 First-quarter revenues rose 10 percent to a record $783.6 million from $711.7 million a year ago. 

 "Our business remains strong," Chairman Phil Satre said in a statement. "Superior performances by the Harrah's brand casinos, which saw a 16-percent increase in same-store gaming revenue over the year-ago quarter, offset the impact of the low hold percentage at Rio. 

 "The first-quarter decline in diluted earnings per share reflects the short-term fluctuations that occasionally affect results at casinos attracting the heavy volumes of table-game play the Rio traditionally enjoys," Satre said. 

 Satre added that the company is working to make the businesses profitable and that National Airlines recorded its first profitable month in March. 

 ((Los Angeles newsdesk, (213) 380-2014)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw4j021gs




 Lucent Hits Target In Quarter It Couldn't Afford To Miss 

 By Johnathan Burns 
897 words
19 April 2000
20:13
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- It was a quarter Lucent Technologies Inc. (LU) really couldn't afford to miss. 

 And so, the world's largest phone equipment maker didn't on Wednesday, when it announced earnings of $754 million, or 23 cents a share, beating Wall Street's expectations by a penny a share. 

 The company's results and its positive outlook for the remainder of the year put some wind in the sails of its stock, with emboldened investors recently sending shares up almost 7%, or 4 1/16, to 63 5/16 in heavy trading. The move came on a day the broader markets sagged - an event that would've typically taken Lucent's share price with it. 

 "I think there was a lot of concern that they wouldn't meet guidance, and they did," said Robert Wilkes, telecommunications equipment analyst with Brown Brothers Harriman. "There were also worries that they would cut guidance for next quarter. Generally speaking, it was a good announcement." 

 Fundamentally, Lucent's just-ended second quarter was somewhat of a mixed bag. Total revenue, which includes sales from units the company will spin off later this year, were up 17% to $10.256 billion from $8.783 billion a year ago. 

 Gross margins, or the amount of profit the company had after paying expenses, dropped to 42.1% from 48.2%. 

 The company said margins were affected by expenses associated with expanding its optical networking capacity. 

 "They did somewhat better on the top-line growth than people expected," Wilkes said, referring to revenue. 

 Chief Executive Rich McGinn said the company would move gross margins back into the mid- to high-40s in the third quarter. 

 More importantly, though, McGinn said the company would achieve a year-over-year revenue growth rate of 17% by year-end. 

 Many have doubted that the Murray Hill, N.J., company can achieve such a feat after issuing a profit warning in the first quarter, when it showed basically no revenue growth. 

 "The first quarter results made 17% for the full-year look pretty ambitious," Wilkes said. "They'll need revenue growth over 20% in the last two quarters to achieve 17%." 

 Which is basically what McGinn said the company will do. 

 Lucent, which will spin off slower growing parts of its enterprise network business later this year, said it will show revenue growth of more than 20% from ongoing operations. 

 The spinoff will require most Wall Street analysts to revise their models to account for the shed units, which add roughly $8 billion in revenue annually. 

 If Lucent had done business in 1999 without the operations to be spun off, its cash earnings per share before noncash expenses would've been somewhere in the neighborhood of $1.11 (compared to about $1.28 with the operations included). Figuring in McGinn's year-end projections of a 17% revenue gain with a similar gain in earnings, cash earnings per share for the company's fiscal 2000 would be in the neighborhood of $1.30. 

 The First Call consensus, which assumes earnings after noncash expenses and dilutive acquisitions, was $1.38 per share Wednesday afternoon. 

 Steve Levy, analyst with Lehman Brothers, said the company's new approach, which factors out the operations to be spun off, is confusing. 

 "We don't know what the new guidance is for the total company," he said. "I've had people telling me that if you do the math, they took the numbers down." 

 Lucent did say it has saw a 25% backlog increase during the second quarter, with the backlog from the Asia-Pacific region growing from $500 million to more than $2 billion. 

 And the company also reported that its revenues for both wireless and Internet infrastructure products increased by more than 50%. 

 Wilkes said the wireless and Internet infrastructure growth was impressive. 

 "Investors were worried about the target of growing the wireless business faster than the industry average," he said. "It gives them some credibility." 

 Lucent does have more ground to recover before it can recapture its prior status of Wall Street darling. 

 Even with its uptick Wednesday, the company still is trading 25% below its 52-week high set in early December. 

 The company believes it can gain some financial improvement by selling part of its manufacturing lines to outside contractors. The move would reduce the company's capital spending and inventory costs as well as improve cash flow. It would also be similar to outsourcing done in the past by competitors Nortel Networks Corp. (NT) and Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO). 

 Lucent said it will retain high-end manufacturing operations, which include its fiber optics operations. 

 "It's positive that they are talking about it," said David Toung, an analyst with Argus Research. "You can have someone else put in the capital and build the factories." 

 The impact of such moves won't be immediate. 

 Lucent, with 30,000 employees, will retain 12,000 manufacturing employees in its semiconductor, optoelectronic and fiber optic plants. About 7,000 employees are in the group to be spun off. The company hasn't yet determined how many employees will move to outside contractors. The transition is expected to take up to two years. 

 -Johnathan Burns; Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-2020; johnathan.burns@dowjones.com 

Document dj00000020010805dw4j01o03




 Maytag's 1st-Quarter Net Fell 13% But Beat Analysts' Reduced Expectations 

289 words
18 April 2000
13:00
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Maytag Corp., a maker of home appliances and floor-care products, posted a 13% decline in first-quarter net income on a marginal drop in sales, but the results topped analysts' diminished expectations. 

 The Newton, Iowa-based company said net income came to $75.9 million, or 89 cents a share on a fully diluted basis, compared with $87.0 million, or 95 cents a diluted share a year earlier. 

 Sales slipped to $1.095 billion from $1.106 billion. 

 The mean estimate in a First Call/Thomson Financial survey of six analysts was for earnings of 85 cents a share. In February, analysts had been looking for a profit of around 96 cents a share, but lowered their expectations after Maytag (MYG) cautioned that first-quarter earnings would fall below year-earlier levels. That warning in February was the third in as many quarters for the appliance maker. 

 Maytag said first-quarter operating income fell to $143 million from $153.5 million a year ago. 

 The company said there were 6.4% fewer diluted shares outstanding in this year's first quarter because of its share-repurchase program. 

 Maytag warned in September that third- and fourth-quarter results would miss targets, but the company actually beat estimates when it posted fourth-quarter earnings at the end of January on the back of strong sales of high-priced home appliances. 

 Maytag said most of its sales and earnings growth this year will occur in the second half, when the company expects to be helped by broadened product distribution and electronic-business activities. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dw4i01cgk




 Acclaim Posts 2nd-Quarter Loss In Line With Earlier Warning 

321 words
12 April 2000
22:42
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Video-game concern Acclaim Entertainment Inc. late Wednesday announced fiscal second-quarter results that were in line with a warning the firm issued last month. The firm cited a drop in game sales and sluggish hardware sales. 

 For the quarter ended Feb. 29, the Glen Cove, N.Y.-based company had a net loss of $19 million, or 34 cents a diluted share, compared with net income of $14.5 million, or 21 cents a diluted share, in the year-earlier period. Revenue tumbled 51% to $65.9 million. 

 Analysts' forecasts were scaled back last month after Acclaim said it would post a surprise loss. Prior to the warning, analysts had been looking for a small profit. 

 Acclaim (AKLM) said the latest results were consistent with an industry-wide decline in software sales despite increases in game console sales. The company also said it felt the impact of lower sales for Nintendo 64 products, whose system Acclaim has been emphasizing. 

 Co-Chairman and Chief Executive Gregory Fischbach said, "We are diversifying our product mix and positioning ourselves for the launch of the next generation systems from Sony, Nintendo and Microsoft." 

 Sony Corp.'s (SNE) PlayStation 2, which has been a hot seller in Japan, debuts in the U.S. this fall. Nintendo Co.'s newest system, Dolphin, will be out later this year and have a DVD drive to run games. Microsoft Corp.'s (MSFT) X-Box, which will include a disk drive, isn't expected to hit the market until the fall of 2001. 

 Three other game makers - Activision Inc. (ATVI), Midway Games Inc. (MWY) and Hong Kong's Radica Games Ltd. (RADA) - warned last week results for their most-recent quarter would be worse than expected. 

 (Compiled from Dow Jones Newswires and other sources) 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dw4c01arc




 U.S. blue chips rally at midday, Nasdaq slides. 

 By Eric Wahlgren 
815 words
12 April 2000
18:06
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, April 12 (Reuters) - The Nasdaq market swooned at midday on Wednesday after bearish news on two software makers stoked an ongoing technology selloff, while the blue chips rallied as investors sought a safer place to put their money. 

 The software, semiconductor, computer and communications sectors all were getting hammered after Goldman Sachs analyst Rick Sherlund cut his fiscal third-quarter revenue outlook for software giant Microsoft Corp. 

 Compuware Corp., another software maker, warned that its fourth-quarter earnings would fall far short of Wall Street's expectations, adding to the technology pullback that has whacked about 585 points off the Nasdaq since Monday. 

 "The big guys like Microsoft are leading the Nasdaq down with others guilty by association," said Gregory Nie, technical analyst at First Union Securities Inc. 

 The tech-stacked Nasdaq composite index opened higher but quickly turned negative, losing 194.93 points, or 4.81 percent, to 3,860.97. For the day, its intraday low so far is 3,852.30. The Nasdaq's drop below the 4,000 level was the first time it had fallen below that mark since its gut-wrenching moves last week. 

 At midday, the Nasdaq was down 141 points, or 3.48 percent, to 3,914.57. It is now about 22 percent off its closing high of 5,048.62 set on March 10. 

 Driving the Nasdaq down early Wednesday was Microsoft, which lost 4-5/8 to 79-1/4 after Goldman's Sherlund cut his fiscal third-quarter revenue outlook for the company to $5.75 billion from $5.95 billion, citing "sluggish" demand for personal computers. At midday, Microsoft was down 3-7/8 at 80, after retracing some of its earlier losses. 

 Compuware dropped 7-1/2, or about 38 percent, to 12-9/16 after saying it expected its fourth-quarter earnings to fall far short of Wall Street expectations as a result of weaker revenues from its professional services and products divisions. The stock was still at 12-9/16 at midday. 

 The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average, meanwhile, continued to benefit from the exodus out of tech sectors, gaining another 107 points, or 0.95 percent, to 11,394, after the previous session's 100-point advance. 

 But among broader gauges, the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index, dipped 2 points, or 0.15 percent, to 1,498. The index includes many technology names. 

 Financial services were leading the Dow pack, with J.P. Morgan & Co. Inc. up 4-3/16 at 138-5/8 after saying its first-quarter profits rose nearly 5 percent to a record $628 million, surging past expectations. 

 Also strong in the Dow was consumer products powerhouse Procter & Gamble, which has been under pressure in recent weeks after announcing last month it would not meet analysts' earnings forecasts because of rising raw material prices and other factors. It was up 3-3/4 at 70-3/16. 

 "It is basically a highly uncertain market," said Pierre Ellis, senior economist at Primark Decision Economics. "You get a piece of bad news about an important stock and it contributes. It is an ongoing rotation from the new economy to the old economy. Where it is all going to settle, it is hard to say." 

 Investors were gearing up for key economic data that may help decide how agressive the Federal Reserve gets on raising interest rates, with reports on inflation at the producer and consumer level due out Thursday and Friday, respectively. 

 On Thursday, Wall Street also will hear what Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan has to say on what lies ahead for stock trading as he is set to testify on the future of the securities markets before a Senate committee. 

 On the New York Stock Exchange, advancers were beating decliners 1,559 to 1,232 with 629 million shares changing hands. There were 35 stocks hitting new highs and 29 at new lows. 

 In addition to banking stocks, strong sectors included heavy machinery, household products and cosmetics. 

 Avon Products Inc. jumped 5-3/4 to 35-1/16 after word that the cosmetics company believes first-quarter earnings per share will top the analysts' consensus estimates. 

 The selloff of Motorola Inc., the No. 2 wireless phone maker, stretched into its second consecutive session, with the stock off 6-11/16 to 116-3/16 a day after a disappointing earnings forecast. On Tuesday, Motorola had posted first-quarter earnings that topped analysts' expectations, but the stock slid on its second-quarter profit warning. 

 Among other big movers, e-mail pager maker Research in Motion Ltd. dove 31-3/4 to 50-1/4 after Credit Suisse First Boston cut its outlook for the Canadian company's revenues and earnings per share. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw4c02hpq




 Nasdaq down 212 in late afternoon, Dow holds gains. 

 By Kristin Roberts 
773 words
12 April 2000
20:13
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, April 12 (Reuters) - Technology stocks dove deeper in late afternoon trading on Wednesday as the onset of a new corporate reporting season just confirmed the old rules - investors think profits should dictate share prices. 

 "Good earnings reports are supporting the rotation," said Joel Silverstein, senior portfolio manager at Cohen, Klingenstein & Marks, referring to the shift from technology to more traditional, "old economy" stocks. 

 "We had some negative surprises on the tech side to exacerbate the situation there," he said. "And on the old economy side, where money was rotating anyhow, we see confirmation of earnings expectations." 

 Indeed, U.S. blue chips held strong gains in late afternoon trading, with financial stocks flying higher on record profits from J.P. Morgan & Co. 


By late afternoon, the Dow Jones industrial average	  was up 55 points, or .48 percent, to 11,340 - off the session high of 11,425.45, but holding most of its gains despite the steep drop in blue-chip technology shares.



The advance by J.P. Morgan, up 5-11/16 to 140-1/8, and American Express , up 7-5/8 at 152-13/16, offset the slide in Hewlett-Packard , Intel Corp. , International Business Machines  and Microsoft Corp.  H-P slid 7-3/16 to 138-5/8, while Intel fell 4-9/16 to 126-3/16, and IBM lost 4-7/8 to 114-1/8. Microsoft dropped 4-5/8 to 79-1/4.



Technology names were beaten back nearly across the board on the back of profit warnings and a continuing pullback that has brought the Nasdaq composite index into negative ground for the year.



The broad tech tumble dragged the Nasdaq composite down 5.25 percent, or 212 points, to 3,843 in late trading.



The gauge fell to 3,850 twice earlier Wednesday but bounced back, leading some market watchers to think the mark may be a support level.



The broader, widely watched Standard & Poor's 500 index struggled, down 7.12 points, or 0.47 percent, at 1,493.47.



The shifting from technology to more traditional, so-called "old economy" stocks has narrowed the gap between the formerly high-flying Nasdaq and the Dow. At current levels, the Nasdaq has turned negative, down 4.9 percent, for the year while the Dow has trimmed its losses, down just 1.1 percent in 2000.



"This is just the way the momentum is now. Every day seems to be the same, with weakness in the Nasdaq," said one Wall Street trader. "I don't think there is general panic out there but people are raising their eyebrows, no doubt."



Software heavyweight Microsoft, a Dow component and the second most actively traded Nasdaq stock on Wednesday, fell after a Goldman Sachs analyst revised downward his outlook for the company's fiscal third-quarter revenues. That played a major role in driving the Nasdaq down right at the start of Wednesday's trading.



And Compuware Corp. dropped 8-1/16 to 12, just off a new 52-week low of 11-11/16, after a profit warning.



Computer-chip stocks melted, sending the Philadelphia Stock Exchange's semiconductor index down 4.91 percent at 1,076. In addition to Intel's decline, Texas Instruments skidded 9-3/8 to 144-3/8 and Applied Materials fell 5-5/8 to 99.



Many top technology stocks slipped ahead of their earnings reports, due after the closing bell Wednesday. Shares of Rambus Inc., developer of designs to speed up computer memory chips, lost 14 to 232, after trading as low as 224. Chip maker Advanced Micro Devices fell 2-1/2 to 65-13/16.



Meanwhile, financial, paper, retail, airline and real estate stocks rallied, as investors just moved money among sectors, market watchers said.



"It is an ongoing rotation from the new economy to the old economy," said Pierre Ellis, senior economist at Primark Decision Economics. "Where it is all going to settle, it is hard to say."



Investors also were looking ahead to Thursday, with earnings due from some bellwether companies, a new set of inflation data set for release and comments from Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan on Capitol Hill.



The 10-year U.S. Treasury note was down 26/32, pushing the yield up to 5.98 percent from Tuesday's close of 5.88 percent, according to GovPX data. The 30-year bond fell 1-5/32 with the yield at 5.85 percent, up from Tuesday's close of 5.77 percent.



(C) Reuters Limited 2000.


Document lba0000020010821dw4c02h2e




 Nasdaq down 202 in late afternoon, Dow holds gains. 

 By Kristin Roberts 
779 words
12 April 2000
20:09
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, April 12 (Reuters) - Technology stocks dove deeper in late afternoon trading on Wednesday as the onset of a new corporate reporting season just confirmed the old rules - investors think profits should dictate share prices. 

 "Good earnings reports are supporting the rotation," said Joel Silverstein, senior portfolio manager at Cohen, Klingenstein & Marks, referring to the shift from technology to more traditional, "old economy" stocks. 

 "We had some negative surprises on the tech side to exacerbate the situation there," he said. "And on the old economy side, where money was rotating anyhow, we see confirmation of earnings expectations." 

 Indeed, U.S. blue chips held strong gains in late afternoon trading, with financial stocks flying higher on record profits from J.P. Morgan & Co. 


By late afternoon, the Dow Jones industrial average	  was up 52 points, or .46 percent, to 11,339 - off the session high of 11,425.45, but holding most of its gains despite the steep drop in blue-chip technology shares.



The advance by J.P. Morgan, up 5-11/16 to 140-1/8, and American Express , up 7-5/8 at 152-13/16, offset the slide in Hewlett-Packard , Intel Corp. , International Business Machines  and Microsoft Corp.  H-P slid 7-3/16 to 138-5/8, while Intel fell 4-9/16 to 126-3/16, and IBM lost 4-7/8 to 114-1/8. Microsoft dropped 4-5/8 to 79-1/4.



Technology names were beaten back nearly across the board on the back of profit warnings and a continuing pullback that has brought the Nasdaq composite index into negative ground for the year.



The broad tech tumble dragged the Nasdaq composite	   down 5.19 percent, or 210 points, to 3,845 in late trading. The gauge fell to 3,850 twice earlier Wednesday but bounced back, leading some market watchers to think the mark may be a support level.



The broader, widely watched Standard & Poor's 500 index struggled, down 7.12 points, or 0.47 percent, at 1,493.47.



The shifting from technology to more traditional, so-called "old economy" stocks has narrowed the gap between the formerly high-flying Nasdaq and the Dow. At current levels, the Nasdaq has turned negative, down 4.9 percent, for the year while the Dow has trimmed its losses, down just 1.1 percent in 2000.



"This is just the way the momentum is now. Every day seems to be the same, with weakness in the Nasdaq," said one Wall Street trader. "I don't think there is general panic out there but people are raising their eyebrows, no doubt."



Software heavyweight Microsoft, a Dow component and the second most actively traded Nasdaq stock on Wednesday, fell after a Goldman Sachs analyst revised downward his outlook for the company's fiscal third-quarter revenues. That played a major role in driving the Nasdaq down right at the start of Wednesday's trading.



And Compuware Corp.  dropped 8-1/16 to 12, just off a new 52-week low of 11-11/16, after a profit warning.



Computer-chip stocks melted, sending the Philadelphia Stock Exchange's semiconductor index	   down 4.91 percent at 1,076. In addition to Intel's decline, Texas Instruments  skidded 9-3/8 to 144-3/8 and Applied Materials  fell 5-5/8 to 99.



Many top technology stocks slipped ahead of their earnings reports, due after the closing bell Wednesday. Shares of Rambus Inc. , developer of designs to speed up computer memory chips, lost 14 to 232, after trading as low as 224. Chip maker Advanced Micro Devices  fell 2-1/2 to 65-13/16.



Meanwhile, financial, paper, retail, airline and real estate stocks rallied, as investors just moved money among sectors, market watchers said.



"It is an ongoing rotation from the new economy to the old economy," said Pierre Ellis, senior economist at Primark Decision Economics. "Where it is all going to settle, it is hard to say."



Investors also were looking ahead to Thursday, with earnings due from some bellwether companies, a new set of inflation data set for release and comments from Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan on Capitol Hill.



The 10-year U.S. Treasury note was down 26/32, pushing the yield up to 5.98 percent from Tuesday's close of 5.88 percent, according to GovPX data. The 30-year bond fell 1-5/32 with the yield at 5.85 percent, up from Tuesday's close of 5.77 percent.



((Wall Street Desk, 212-859-1730)).



(C) Reuters Limited 2000.


Document lba0000020010821dw4c02h1c


 Business 
 MONEYLINE 

 Stuart Varney, Rhonda Schaffler, Bruce Francis, Allan Dodds Frank, Terry Keenan, Wolf Blitzer, Mark Potter, Peter Viles, Steve Young, Greg Clarkin 
8,194 words
11 April 2000
23:30
CNNfn: Moneyline News Hour
MNYL
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 STUART VARNEY, CNNfn ANCHOR, MONEYLINE:  Tonight on MONEYLINE, high-flying techs knocked back to Earth -- the Nasdaq is now down for the year after another nosedive, while the Dow comeback accelerates. Setting off today`s high-tech upheaval, a monster sell-off in Motorola (URL: http://www.mot.com/) . Will trouble  for the bellwether spread across the tech universe? Ralph Reed, Christian activist, consultant to George W. Bush and lobbyist for Microsoft (URL: http://www.microsoft.com/) ? Can Reed help Bill Gates fight his battle in Washington? And another college dropout worth tens of billions -- what motivates Michael Dell. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 MICHAEL DELL, DELL COMPUTERS: Well fundamentally, I like to win. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 VARNEY: One on one with the force behind America`s number-one PC giant. 

 ANNOUNCER: This is the MONEYLINE NEWS HOUR. Reporting tonight from New York, Stuart Varney. 

 Good evening, everyone. Willow is on assignment tonight. 

 On March the 10th, the mighty Nasdaq stood at a record, up 24 percent on the year, while the Dow was in the grips of a nasty correction. Just a few weeks later, change of story -- the gains on the Nasdaq are gone, while the blue chips are close to pushing into the black. That dramatic reversal of fortune sped up today, the Nasdaq plunging for the second straight session, falling 132 to 4,055. The Dow, meanwhile, shot higher at one point today; that was at one stage today. It settled up 100. 

 Today`s Nasdaq nosedive comes a week after one of the most perilous days in market history, just the latest hair-raising session that has left many investors seeing red. 

 Rhonda Schaffler reports. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 RHONDA SCHAFFLER, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Investors continued to dump tech stocks and race toward familiar old-economy names. News out this morning that Motorola reduced earnings estimates for the current quarter set the tone for today`s tech rout, which was largely concentrated on the Nasdaq. The Nasdaq down to 4,055 on the day, off 132 points. It`s been a rough few weeks for that index. After soaring to its peak in early March, the Nasdaq has fallen nearly 20 percent in the past month, and it`s now down on the year. 

 And the worse may not be over. 

 FRANCIS GANNON, SUNAMERICA ASSET MGMT.: I think if you talk to most portfolio managers, they`ll tell you that we`re going to see some type of retest in the Nasdaq back to the lows. 

 Today`s sell-off was felt hardest in the biotechs. The group lost almost 5 percent, led by Biogen (URL: http://www.biogen.com/) , which came up shy of estimates for its first quarter earnings. And stock of ViroPharma (URL: http://www.viropharma.com/) was sent crashing on news that a once-promising cold drug from the company faltered in three separate FDA trials. 

 The Nasdaq`s woes were largely shrugged off at the Big Board, where the Dow racked up more than a 100-point gain to close at 11,287, still a bit more than 200 points below where it started the year. The index hit a record in January, but sold off almost 16.5 percent in just two months, as techs gained popularity. 

 But when investors soured on tech stocks in March, the Dow benefited, gaining back nearly all of its early-year loss. 

 Some names leaving the Dow higher today: DuPont (URL: http://www.dupont.com/)  , General Electric (URL: http://www.ge.com) and International Paper (URL: http://www.ipaper.com/) . Experts say value may be found in the stalwart sectors of the NYSE, but don`t completely abandon the volatile new-economy names of the Nasdaq. 

 AL GOLDMAN, AG EDWARDS: Areas like the pharmaceuticals, brokerage banks, finance, retail, we believe will be attracting money. But I would a very normal-weighted, about 25 percent position in technology and Internet for those people who are either young at heart or have a young heart. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 SCHAFFLER: Whether this divergence can continue is anyone`s guess, but tomorrow, investors could be in for more volatility, with another round of profit reports. Advanced Micro Devices (URL: http://www.amd.com/) , J.P. Morgan (URL: http://www.jpmorgan.com/) and Time Warner (URL: http://www.timewarner.com/) -- the parent of CNN --just a few of the results expected to roll out -- Stuart. 

 SCHAFFLER: All right, Rhonda Schaffler at the Big Board. 

 Thanks, Rhonda. 

 While biotechs may have been the hardest hit on the Nasdaq today, they were hardly alone in a very big losers` circle. Microsoft fell more than 2 points, now down more than 20 percent, since the antitrust case exploded just last week. Yahoo! (URL: http://www.yahoo.com/) , Sun Microsystems (URL: http://www.sun.com/) , Oracle (URL: http://www.oracle.com/) , Cisco (URL: http://www.cisco.com/) , all down sharper today as well. Aside from the big caps, b-to- b stocks were slammed again today. They include Commerce One (URL: http://www.commerceone.com/) and Ariba (URL: http://www.ariba.com/) , JDS Uniphase (URL: http://www.jdsunph.com/) , Akamai (URL: http://www.akamai.com/) , Inktomi (URL: http://www.inktomi.com) , all posting sharp losses, the last two both off $100 or more from their 52 week highs. 

 Another huge high-tech loser today, as we mentioned, Motorola, its stock pounded after warning on a conference call this morning that second-quarter earnings will not meet expectations. And that profit alarm came after the mobile phone giant beat expectations for first- quarter earnings. 

 Let`s take a look at what happened to Motorola`s stock. You can see we`re using the word "plunged" quite usefully there -- down more than 26 points. 122 7/8 was the closing figure. It was, by the way, the most active issue today on the Big Board by a long way. Look at that again -- down 26 1/8, all the way back to 122. 

 Now that cast a shadow over competitors Nokia (URL: http://www.nokia.com/) and Ericsson (URL: http://www.ericsson.com/) , though the damage was clearly a good  deal more modest. Still, Motorola`s trouble was an unsettling development for tech stocks overall, as investors anxiously await a coming flood of profit reports. 

 Bruce Francis has more on that. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 BRUCE FRANCIS, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Investors hung up on Motorola, slashing more than $20 billion in market value from the company. The culprit, not the company`s better-than-expected results -- profits more doubled from the same period a year ago -- but a timid outlook for profit margins next quarter and a forecast of lower-than- expected earnings. Part of the problem is that cheaper cell phones are hot sellers right now. But with low margins, they do little for Motorola`s bottom line, at a time when some components have been in short supply. The shares, which along with many tech stocks, peaked last month, is now off 34 percent from that high. Analysts brushed off the market`s concerns. 

 EDWARD SNYDER, CHASE H&Q: The biggest division of the company, which is their PCS division, the handset group, accounting for about 35 percent of the revenue, has got lower profits than they had anticipated. I think really this is a transitional thing. It`s a temporary issue. 

 MONA ERAIBA, GRUNTAL: It`s a buying opportunity. The stock has been punished for a problem which I think is transitional in nature. The company`s growth potential is still intact. 

 FRANCIS: After Monday`s massive tech sell-off, investors were clearly in no mood for anything but sunny projections. The start of the tech earnings season was supposed to give the sector a much-needed jolt. But the curtain-raisers haven`t had that effect. Yahoo! failed to rally heading into its report, and instead has fallen 19 percent since it beat Wall Street`s estimates last Wednesday. 

 But the pace is about the quicken. Bellwether Sun Micro Systems reports on Thursday, followed by a super-tech Tuesday next week, with EMC (URL: http://www.emc.com/) , Qualcomm (URL: http://www.qualcomm.com/) , IBM (URL: http://www.ibm.com/) and Intel (URL: http://www.intel.com/) all scheduled to disclose results. 

 ANDREW BARRETT, SALOMON SMITH BARNEY: This is sort of a light week. Next week begins super week, in terms of earnings, and the week after that, if it`s true that earnings do matter, that`s the stabilizing force for the Nasdaq going forward. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 FRANCIS: Sun, the next tech bellwether to report, is expected to check in with blowout quarter. But the 18 percent drop in Motorola`s stock today is a reminder of just how important that outlook is. And Sun has traditionally been very conservative with projections -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: What`s driving a blowout quarter from Sun? 

 FRANCIS: Sun has positioned itself and is operating like an Internet infrastructure play, so if that story is working, Sun should be working very well, and all expectations are that it certainly is. 

 VARNEY: Bruce Francis, thanks very much. 

 Now taking a closer look at today`s market action, the high-tech trouble did not spark any flight to the safety of U.S. Treasuries. The 10-10-year issue actually lost more than a half point, and the 30- year bond -- that was down nearly a point and a half. We`ll have more on that later in this program. 

 As for the S&P 500, it fell today as well, but not by much. It was down more than 3 points, to 1,500. 

 Advancing issues edged out decliners on the Big Board. There were 36 stocks that hit new highs, but there were 50 that hit new lows. 

 In tonight`s tech watch, Nasdaq stocks surrounded by uncertainty. Our first guest tonight says we`re in a high-tech twilight zone, struggling to understand the true of the market`s upstart companies. 

 Drew Cupps is the manager of the Strong Enterprise Fund, up nearly 40 percent at its best this year; now up just 2 percent. Mr. Cupps joins us from Chicago. 

 Drew, welcome back. 

 DREW CUPPS, FUND MGR., STRONG FUNDS: Thanks. Good to be here, Stuart. 

 VARNEY: Now many of the top 10 holdings in your fund are tech stocks. What do you make of this latest slide? 

 CUPPS: Well, I think that we have to keep everything into context. Anytime we chop anything in short periods, we can fake ourselves out. And have to remember last year, and the incredible run-up and the gains that were posted by these same stocks last year. And in that context, it`s not quite as surprising, the "retracement" that we`ve had so far. 

 VARNEY: But what`s behind this? I mean, is it just sky-high valuations and investors reacting to that? What`s your analysis of why we`re down so much, so fast? 

 CUPPS: Sure. I think that it`s been a long time since valuation really has mattered. This has been a news-driven market for the last couple years, at least. So many investors have convinced themselves that the only thing matters is the news flow. And -- but valuation has always been that second component that hasn`t gotten as much airtime over the last couple of years. And I think that we`ve stretched valuations to a degree that it really does matter now. And just because we have a positive earnings release or even a positive outlook doesn`t necessarily mean that the stock is going to go up. So valuation does matter. 

 VARNEY: Motorola, at $122 a share: Would you buy it tomorrow morning? 

 CUPPS: I think for a long-term perspective, Motorola is a great opportunity, because they`re one of three major companies positioned very well in the wireless devices space. And I think we all know that we`re getting more mobile, not less. And to have an oligopoly like that with three companies is a pretty valuable franchise. Motorola is a good long-term buy. 

 VARNEY: Briefly, Drew, what chance of the Nasdaq returning to 5,000 any time soon? 

 CUPPS: Well, I think -- of course, it`s a matter of when and not if. The one thing going against it is that most of the bellwethers -- remember the Nasdaq is really determined by five or 10 companies. And most of those companies haven`t really corrected. The value, I think, is in the mid-tier, and that`s where we try to operate for the most part. 

 VARNEY: Drew Cupps, with the Strong Enterprise Fund. Thanks for joining us there from Chicago. 

 CUPPS: My pleasure. 

 VARNEY: Well, for more tech news, log on to our Web site at CNNfn.com, or click on to AOL, keyword "CNNfn." 

 Still to come on MONEYLINE, Aetna (URL: http://www.aetna.com/) settles a crucial suit over limits on its doctors. Will the result be better care for HMO patients? 

 Plus, Microsoft reveals an unlikely political player on its payroll. We`ll tell you about the story rocking the company, and indeed, the Bush campaign. 

 And the PC power broker moving his sights off the desktop and onto the Net. We`ll have a special look at Michael Dell. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Aetna today unveiled what it hopes is a landmark deal, settling a Texas lawsuit over how the HMO giant treated its doctors and patients. The company agreed to a series of measures giving broader powers back to physicians and greater recourse to patients. 

 Allan Dodds Frank has the story. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 ALLAN DODDS FRANK, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The Texas attorney general says Aetna`s more than half million patients should now get much better medical care with far fewer delays by insurance company bureaucrats. 

 JOHN CORNYN, TEXAS ATTORNEY GENERAL: This agreement removes financial incentives that tempt doctors to limit medically necessary care and which create a conflict of interest between the patient and their very own doctor. Now doctors will be compensated for the cost of medically necessary care and not penalized for providing treatment that their patients need. 

 FRANK: Under the agreement, Aetna now will encourage doctors to practice preventive care and make all determinations about necessary medical treatment. Aetna`s HMOs also will provide better disclosure about treatment and cost to patients. And patients can appeal Aetna`s conduct to a new state ombudsman. 

 DR. ARTHUR LEIBOWITZ, AETNA CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER: We agree that this is a win-win for everybody involved. It looks after issues that are important to consumers. It restores their confidence in their health plan. It restores their confidence in their relationship with their physician. 

 FRANK: The Texas attorney general hailed the agreement as a landmark that could be a model for other HMOs and other states to reach settlements. But Connecticut`s attorney general says his investigation of the nation`s largest HMO operator will continue. 

 RICHARD BLUMENTHAL, CONNECTICUT ATTORNEY GENERAL: Aetna may have sought a solution that is stronger on imagery than reality, because the benefits here may be so limited that consumers will never see them. 

 FRANK: The Texas agreement also may provide new ammunition for ongoing private class-action suits in federal court. 

 STEPHEN NEUWIRTH, BOIES, SCHILLER AND FLEXNER: It seems to be a clear admission that with respect to the incentives that Aetna gives to physicians, Aetna up until this point did not make truthful disclosure to participants in its plans. 

 FRANK: Four other HMOs in Texas are being investigated for denial of health care benefits, and Aetna`s action is likely to increase pressure on them to settle. 

 Allan Dodds Frank, CNN Financial News, New York. (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: In other corporate news, troubled drug store firm Rite- Aid today announced key financial deals aimed at rebuilding the whole company. Rite Aid (URL: http://www.riteaid.com/) says that Citibank (URL: http://www.citi.com/) has committed a billion dollars in secured credit. JP Morgan will convert 200 million in bank debt to Rite Aid common stock. The firm says those deals will wipe out nearly all its maturing debt all the way through to August 2002. 

 Also today, a federal advisory panel backed Immunex`s (URL: http://www.immunex.com/) bid to expand the approved uses of its main drug, Enbrel. The company wants Enbrel cleared for use with rheumatoid arthritis patients. 

 Rite Aid, shares of that stock today rose more than a point and a half, but Immunex stock was up more than six on the day. 

 Still to come: As Net stocks sink, who`s going down with them? We`ll connect the dots between new economy fortunes and old economy earnings. We`re going to go behind the numbers, next. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Here`s our check of just some of the stocks that hit 52- week highs today: AMR -- that`s American Airlines (URL: http://www.amrcorp.com/) , of course --BellSouth (URL:http://www.bellsouthcorp.com/) , Celestial Seasonings (URL: http://www.celestialseasonings.com/) , Costco (URL: http://www.costco.com/)  Wholesale and MGM Grand (URL: http://www.mgmgrand.com/) . 

 Here`s tonight`s "MONEYLINE Movers": KLA Tencor (URL: http://www.kla.com/) , despite yesterday`s -- rather, today`s as well, the tech sell-off in both days. The chip equipment maker climbed more than 2 1/2 points after Morgan Stanley Dean Witter (URL: http://www.msdw.com/) raised its price target to $105 per share. It expects chip equipment stocks to outperform the market in the second quarter. 

 Honeywell (URL: http://www.honeywell.com/) , up more than 2 1/2: the Dow component teaming up with VerticalNet (URL: http://www.verticalnet.com/) to expand the content of its e-business site, Myplant.com. 

 Nike (URL: http://www.nike.com/) soared more than two. Bank of America (URL: http://www.bankamerica.com/) repeated its strong buy rating on the sneaker and apparel maker and raised its price target to $51 a share. Just the last three weeks, Nike shares have soared 35 percent, but the stock is still down from its high of nearly $67 a share. 

 Several companies made earnings news today. International Paper outpaced profit forecasts in the first quarter and it said next quarter`s results would be even stronger. The paper giant beat street estimates by 2 cents a share, it earned nearly $250 million in profits. Raytheon (URL: http://www.raytheon.com/) warned that contract problems at its engineering and construction unit would weigh on its bottom line. And the defense company announced plans to sell, spin off, or set up a joint venture for that troubled unit. Here`s those stocks: Raytheon down fractionally, International Paper up just over 1/2 point. 

 But the earnings that investors may be most concerned with in the coming 

 weeks are tech earnings, which could determine the direction of the battered Nasdaq. And since every penny counts in this fragile market, it`s vital to look at where the profits are coming from. Many tech companies along with old fashioned companies have themselves invested in the former market high flyers. It helped their profits, with the Nasdaq on the way up. But what happens now that the Nasdaq is way down? 

 Terry Keenan now goes "Behind The Numbers." 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 TERRY KEENAN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (on camera): Stuart, while blue- chip tech stocks have held up much better than more speculative tech names in recent weeks, Wall Street is starting to buzz about the collateral damage a decline in the Internet stocks could have on earnings at the biggest technology companies and even some old-economy names. 

 Here`s the issue: in recent years, corporate America has become increasingly entrepreneurial, pouring billions of dollars into small start-up Internet companies. Last year, for example, corporate spending on venture capital more than doubled to over $7 billion. Direct investments are far larger. Microsoft, for example, has a $20 billion investment portfolio; Intel an $8 billion collection of companies. 

 These investments have come in very handy, turbocharging earnings at many companies at the end of last year. At Microsoft, the sale of securities added more than $700 million to the bottom line in the final quarter of 1999. At Delta Air Lines (URL: http://www.delta-air.com/) , the sale of part of its Priceline.com (URL: http://www.priceline.com/) stock added almost $600 million, while Wells Fargo (URL: http://www.wellsfargo.com/) made $560 million on the sale of Cerent to Cisco. But with many Internet companies now down 50 percent, 60 percent, even 70 percent, these gains could dry up, removing a convenient earnings cushion for many companies. 

 ROBERT OLSTEIN, OLSTEIN FIN. ALERT FUND: You have portfolio sales, companies investing in these Internet or so-called new tech companies, and selling them out of their portfolio. They`re real gains, but I don`t know if you`re going to capitalize those at 40 and 50 times earnings, especially with the Nasdaq getting hit as it is today and in the last couple of months. 

 KEENAN: Olstein says without these investment gains to jump start profits, a slowdown in core earnings growth at some companies will become more evident in the coming quarters. In other words, if the Nasdaq continues to deteriorate, so, too, will earnings` performance -- something to consider when trying to access the fallout of this furious technology sell-off -- Stuart. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: All right, thanks, Terry. 

 Up next, the Miami relatives of Elian Gonzalez offer to reunite the boy with his father, but only on their terms. Our "News Digest" comes up next. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) VARNEY: Now for a look at the day`s top stories outside the world of business, and for that, we turn to Wolf Blitzer with the MONEYLINE "News Digest" -- Wolf. 

 WOLF BLITZER, CNNfn ANCHOR: Thanks, Stuart. 

 In Washington and Miami, the Elian Gonzalez custody fight goes on tonight. Two Miami-area mayors have met with Attorney General Janet Reno here in Washington to discuss the case. The Miami and Dade County mayors asked Reno to arrange a meeting between Elian`s Miami relatives and his father. There is a possibility that Reno may go down to Florida tomorrow. 

 Mark Potter is in Miami now with the latest -- Mark. 

 MARK POTTER, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: Hello, Wolf. 

 The Gonzalez family and protesters are quietly awaiting the arrival of a Justice Department letter perhaps later today detailing how and where Elian is to be transferred to his father. And as you said, there is word from the Justice Department that Janet Reno may be coming here tomorrow. She is expected to meet with political leaders and others in the community, and with federal officials. Sources say the purpose of her visit is to make the point that this transfer is going to happen and she will ask everyone involved to try to make this a peaceful transfer with as little trauma as possible for young Elian. 

 Mark Potter, CNN, reporting live from Miami. 

 BLITZER: Thanks, Mark. 

 At the White House, Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak is meeting with President Clinton at this hour. They are discussing the slow progress in the peace negotiations between the Palestinians and the Israelis. There is a May 13th deadline for an agreement. 

 Also today, President Clinton showed his support as tough new gun-control legislation was signed into law in Maryland. Mr. Clinton calls the new law an example for Congress to follow. It makes built- in locks mandatory on all handguns. 

 And the Marine Corps is defending its controversial Osprey aircraft. That as crash investigators began removing the remains of 19 Marines from an Osprey which went down Saturday night in Arizona. 

 I`ll have much more on all those stories and a lot of others on "THE WORLD TODAY." That`s at 8:00 p.m. Eastern, 5:00 p.m. Pacific. 

 Back to you, Stuart. 

 VARNEY: All right, thank you, Wolf. 

 Still to come at the top of the hour on MONEYLINE, tech trauma -- the Nasdaq suffers again as the Dow enjoys an old-economy revival. 

 The selling was fast and furious in the bond pits as well. We`ll tell you why bond prices tanked. 

 And what does Michael Dell plan for the post-P.C. era? Find out in tonight`s "Headliners" report. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 ANNOUNCER: MONEYLINE continues. Here again, Stuart Varney. 

 VARNEY: In tonight`s headlines: Has this year`s tech boom gone bust? The Nasdaq sees its 2000 gains disappear after yet another triple-digit dive. Microsoft finds an unlikely political ally in its antitrust battle with the Justice Department. We`ll have a special report on that. And our headliners series continues. Tonight, my interview with Michael Dell about what makes him tick. 

 First more on our top story: a reversal of fortune that few investors saw coming as recently as a month ago. The Nasdaq`s explosive run-up in 2000 is gone tonight after just a handful of bruising trading sessions for technology stocks. Many of the new economy names that led  the Nasdaq to record after record earlier this year are now in bear market territory. 

 Today it was earnings news that shook the tech stocks. The Nasdaq tumbled 132: That`s more than 3 percent. Investors grew nostalgic for old economy stocks, lifting the Dow industrials 100 points to 11,287. 

 Money flowing out of techs into slow growth stocks has closed the gap between the Dow and the Nasdaq. The Nasdaq is now virtually flat on the year while the Dow is down just 2 percent. 

 Peter Viles has more on a tech rout that continues to broaden and deepen. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 PETER VILES, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The technology tumble continued Tuesday, driving the Nasdaq to new lows as investors flocked back to so-called "old economy" stocks. The day`s winners included old reliables such as Schering-Plough (URL: http://www.sch-plough.com/) , Chevron (URL: http://www.chevron.com/) , 3M (URL: http://www.mmm.com/) , Sears Roebuck (URL: http://www.sears.com/) , and Coca-Cola (URL: http://www.cocacola.com/) . COURTNEY SMITH, COURTNEY SMITH & CO: I think in general this is going to be  the trend for the next month or two, simply because we`re seeing the economy slow. And what that`s doing is increasing the attractiveness of the interest-rate sensitive sectors of the economy, which are the old economy stocks: General Motors, banks, brokers, those kinds of things are much more attractive in this new environment. 

 VILES: For once there was corporate news driving technology shares lower, chiefly Motorola`s morning warning of weak second- quarter profits. The stock fell 26 and change in heavy trading. Another earnings loser was Biogen, which fell short of street expectations and lost $12 a share. With that backdrop, the high-tech damage was once again widespread. Losers included Cisco Systems, Microsoft, Oracle and Sun Microsystems. 

 One-time high flyer Akamai Technologies lost another $25. It is down nearly $200 from its peak just a month ago. 

 The Nasdaq closed 19.6 percent below its record high, and at its low was down more than 20 percent, the level at which some analysts believe a bull market dies and becomes a bear market. 

 That diagnosis, however, is not yet widespread. 

 SCOTT BLEIER, PRIME CHARTER LTD.: We`re suffering through a bull market correction in Nasdaq, and that bull market correction is taking one half of the gains from October and giving them back. 

 VILES (on camera): Tuesday`s losses leave technology investors looking at a litany of negatives: the Nasdaq now down for the year to date, now testing the 4,000 barrier and now heading into a time of year when technology stocks have historically performed poorly. 

 Peter Viles, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: Motorola is not a Nasdaq stock, but it still had a huge impact on that index. The company gave the weary tech sector exactly what it didn`t need: merely adequate first-quarter profits and a warning about the next quarter. 

 Motorola`s stock was the most active on the big board, and it tumbled 18 percent. Investors took the opportunity to cash in on a tremendous run-up. Before today`s drop, the stock was up 70 percent in the past year. 

 Joining us now, a Motorola analyst who had a buy rating on the stock before  today`s debacle and he still does. Walter Piecyk is the wireless analyst at PaineWebber. 

 Walter, welcome to the program. 

 WALTER PIECYK, PAINEWEBBER: Thank you very much. 

 VARNEY: Right. Well, Motorola serves up a mild warning, stock takes a huge dive. You still say buy it and buy it now. Make your case. 

 PIECYK: We think in this sector -- in the entire market, frankly -- growth is of the utmost importance. And what Motorala did today is increase their revenue guidance. We increased our revenue a billion dollars. You`re looking at a company growing 24 percent, a company people thought was going to grow at 15 percent. 

 These are the stocks you want to invest in. Margins will follow. Earnings growth is very strong. Motorola right now is one of the cheapest stocks out there. 

 Motorola is going generate the same revenue that Ericcson and Nokia will this year, and its market cap is about half of what Ericcson`s is as well as being about 2 1/2 times as what Nokia`s market cap is. 

 VARNEY: Motorola very recently at 150, 160. I believe I saw it at $170 a share very recently. You expect a fast bounce-back to those levels? 

 PIECYK: I think the stock will recover as the company shows that this is just a short-term blip and they are benefiting from the growth in the industry. 

 For example, the margins in the handset business were impacted by a component issue, but it`s a short-term issue. A product mix that`s a short-term issue as the company rolls out several new product lines. 

 So from 1 percent to 4 1/2 percent to 7 percent to 11 percent, that`s going to be a very nice ramp in margins. That`s going to get investors excited and get the stock back to 175 and then some more. 

 VARNEY: What are your three top stock picks? I take it they`re headed by Motorola. 

 PIECYK: Motorola at these levels I think is a steal given the value and the growth prospects. Nextel Communications (URL: http://www.nextel.com/)  in the wireless service space -- you can`t ignore the operators right here, probably the best way to play the operators. And when you step back and say who`s benefiting from all this growth, whether it`s cable or wireless or telecom, it`s Cisco. 

 VARNEY: I have to ask you about Qualcomm. Late December, you issued  a forecast it would hit a $1,000 a share... 

 PIECYK: Right. 

 VARNEY: That would be 250 post split. It`s now at 150 or thereabouts. 

 PIECYK: Right. 

 VARNEY: Have you still got that forecast, that it`s going to go to 250? 

 PIECYK: Absolutely. Qualcomm is -- when people look at how do you play the future in wireless and data -- and Qualcomm`s technology, in our opinion -- is the technology of the future, whether it`s the United States, Europe, Asia, wherever. And you know, we`re going to sit here and debate: Is Motorola going to be the best handset manufacturer? Is Palm (URL: http://www.palm.com/) ? Is Nokia? 

 But one company you can look and say, who is going to be benefiting 10 years from now from wireless data? It`s Qualcomm. 

 VARNEY: You make a strong case. Very good. Walter Piecyk, thanks very much for joining us. 

 PIECYK: Thank you. 

 VARNEY: OK. Now, for a change, today`s tech wreck did little to boost the government bond market. Instead, prices plunged as traders moved out of Treasuries and back into so-called "agency debt." 

 Traders were expecting Congressman Richard Baker of Louisiana to bash debt from Fannie Mae (URL: http://www.fanniemae.com/) and Freddie Mac (URL: http://www.freddiemac.com/) . Instead, he only reiterated previous comments and added that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are  healthy and profitable. 

 Baker`s tamer-than-expected testimony reversed the recent up- trend in Treasuries, sending the 10-year down almost a full point to yield 5.88 percent. The 30-year sinking nearly a point and a half; the yield there moving up to 5.76 percent. 

 Just ahead on MONEYLINE: What do Bill Gates and religious conservative Ralph Reed have in common? We`ll tell you about the strange political partnership that has Washington and Silicon Valley truly buzzing. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: In tonight`s "MONEYLINE Focus": Microsoft shares under pressure again, the losses mounting in the wake of a federal judge`s decision that Microsoft violated antitrust law in its software operations. The stock dropped nearly 2 1/4 points today and is down significantly since the decision. 

 And Microsoft took a hit today from revelations of an unusual personnel move: The company admitted Ralph Reed, former head of the Christian Coalition, was working for Microsoft at the same time he was employed by George W. Bush`s presidential campaign. 

 Steve Young has the story. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 STEVE YOUNG, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Microsoft and Republican presidential candidate George Bush say it`s OK for political consultant Ralph Reed to work for both masters. He`s on both payrolls, and his  company urged some Bush supporters to lobby the presidential candidate to go easy on the software giant ruled by a federal judge to be a predacious monopolist. 

 After the story was disclosed by the "New York Times," Reed denied contacting Bush or his staff to take a position on the controversial case. His company apologized for at least the appearance of a conflict of interest, saying, "We should have been more sensitive to possible misperceptions, and it is an error that we regret". 

 The campaign says Bush never knew his consultant was double dipping with 

 the software giant, will keep his Microsoft contract, but on the subject of Microsoft will keep his hands off George Bush. 

 MINDY TUCKER, BUSH CAMPAIGN SPOKESMAN: He cannot lobby the governor on Microsoft`s behalf and be a vendor to the campaign. He has to choose one or the other. He has made the decision today that he is going to be a vendor to the campaign. 

 YOUNG: The consensus is Microsoft committed a blunder. 

 ALLAN LICHTMAN, AMERICAN UNIVERSITY: This was a brilliant political move to hire Ralph Reed, one of the finest political operatives in the country, so long as it was kept surreptitious, but nothing is ever kept permanently quiet. It has now blown up and it is a negative for Bush and a negative for Microsoft. 

 YOUNG: A spokesman says Microsoft did nothing wrong because it hired Reed`s company in the fall of 1998 before Bush was even a candidate. 

 TOM MILLER, IOWA ATTORNEY GENERAL: Well, Bush may not have been officially a candidate then, but everybody knew he was going to be a candidate, every knew that he was going to be the candidate in the Republican Party. So the same problem is there, to try to use influence to get away from a decision in court. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 YOUNG: Miller says any efforts by Reed won`t work anyway. He says if any future Justice Department goes soft on Microsoft, the 19 states that sued the company won`t let go -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: An embarrassing disclosure, but does it actually hurt anybody? 

 YOUNG: Well, an adroit move, according to the professor on Microsoft`s part. But it leaves Bush in the position of saying he didn`t know, and a lot of people will say he should have known or incredulous that he really didn`t know. 

 VARNEY: Fair enough. Steve Young, thank you. 

 Here`s what`s coming up, Chase Manhattan antes up to buy an old- line British investment house, but was the price too steep? Back in a moment. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Chase Manhattan (URL: http://www.chase.com/) today reached across the Atlantic to buy the private investment bank Robert-Fleming for more than $7.5 billion. The deal gives Chase access to Fleming`s business in Europe and Asia, but at a cost that raised eyebrows on Wall Street. Chase stock dropped more than $2. 

 Greg Clarkin has the story. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 GREG CLARKIN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): A London shopping spree for Chase ends Robert Fleming`s independence, Chase buying the British financial firm for $7.7 billion in cash and stock. 

 Fleming is one of the last of the independent British banks. It boasts an investment banking unit and manages assets in both Europe and Asia. But the price tag, $4.1 billion in cash, $3.6 billion in stock, is much higher than Wall Street expected Chase to pay. 

 GEORGE BICHER, DEUTSCHE BANC ALEX BROWN: In the short run, you`ve increased earnings risk at the company given that you have paid a high price at what one could argue could be peak cycle earnings and that`s the issue. If there is a down turn in market activity, people are going to look at Chase and say, you know what? You paid too much. If things keep growing as they are, people forget about it. 

 CLARKIN: Chase has lagged as an investment bank in Europe. This deal helps overcome that weakness, and Chase`s CEO defended the high price tag for Fleming, saying it gives the bank a foothold in Asia as well. 

 WILLIAM HARRISON, CHASE MANHATTAN BANK: This is all about growth. It`s a growth story. If you like Asia and you like Europe as a growth matter you will like this deal. We think our shareholders will like this deal. It will be non-dilative in year two, which is part of our financial disciplines. 

 CLARKIN: Chase has stopped buying back its stock to help pay for the acquisition, it hopes to resume the buyback program by year end. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 CLARKIN: But it`s the volatile Asian markets that have some on Wall Street worried. While those markets are climbing now, the meltdown of 1998 is still fresh in the minds of many, and now Chase has a much larger exposure to those markets -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: Ian Fleming, as in James Bond, there is a connection, isn`t there? 

 CLARKIN: There is. Ian Fleming was a member of the Fleming family, groomed as a banker, never worked there. 

 VARNEY: Never worked as a banker, that`s for sure. 

 CLARKIN: But in that Bond series. 

 VARNEY: All right, thanks very much. 

 CLARKIN: Sure. 

 VARNEY: Now, checking some of today`s big stock movers: Bookham Technology more than tripled in its Wall Street debut, up more than 32 points. The company makes telecom chips and is based in the United Kingdom. The biotech sector was shaken again today, but there was one bright spot and that was Celgene. The stock rose nearly 2 points after Morgan Stanley Dean Witter began coverage with a strong buy rating and a $212-a-share price target. Another biotech stock, though, was crushed: ViroPharma sank 48.5, 68 percent to the downside. Its experimental treatment for meningitis and the common cold performed poorly in clinical trials. If you bought ViroPharma at its high, you lost big time. The stock is now down 79 percent from the $111 high that it hit less than two months ago. 

 In tonight`s "Sector Focus," drug stocks building on their recent gains despite a drop in biotech shares. The pharmaceutical sector got a boost from Gruntal, which today said it expects the upward swing to continue on consistent earnings, strong fundamentals and a stream of new drugs. The sector is also seen as a safe haven from market volatility. The AMEX Drug Index rose more than 2.5 percent just today. Driving today`s move, Schering Plough climbed 3 1/2. Johnson & Johnson gained more than 2. Bristol-Myers Squibb up almost 3. American Home Products rose nearly 1 1/2. And Glaxo Wellcome in there with a gain of more than 2 points. 

 Next on MONEYLINE, a "Headliner" profile of a high-tech superstar. My one-on-one with Michael Dell, by far the richest man in Texas, and the chief executive engineering a dramatic corporate makeover. 

 We will be back. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Now, the latest installment of "Headliners": in-depth profiles of chief executives with companies on the move. 

 Tonight, Michael Dell: The man behind Dell Computer (URL: http://www.dell.com/)  Computer has watched his company ride out the market upheaval in recent weeks as well as today. The stock is up a dollar. 

 Since hitting a record a month ago, the Nasdaq is down nearly 20 percent while Dell shares are actually up more than 8 percent. It`s an encouraging sign of resilience for a company that staged a much- needed Wall Street revival this year. 

 Recently I traveled to Texas to talk with Michael Dell about how to stage a corporate comeback and what it`s like to be one of America`s richest men. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY (voice-over): During the 1990s, Michael Dell was crowned the great wealth creator of the digital age: the prodigy who spawned legions of Dellionaires with the computer company he founded before he turned 20. 

 MICHAEL DELL, FOUNDER, DELL COMPUTER: Why don`t we change this to the "as requested" (UNINTELLIGIBLE)? 

 UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: OK. 

 DELL: OK? VARNEY: These days, Dell holds a very different title: stock market survivor who kept the faith while Wall Street questioned whether a superhot stock had turned into just another growth stock. 

 DELL: The last, you know, year or two, it`s really been just a dramatic shift. 

 VARNEY: Dell was referring to venture capital trends, but the dramatic shift could also apply to investor sentiment. Dell stock hit some bumps in `99 and tumbled early this year when Dell lowered the bar for earnings, its second profit warning in a row. But since then, Dell shares have bounded back, even rallying during the recent Nasdaq turmoil on the belief that the company was on a turnaround track. 

 Analysts we spoke to gave sole credit to the executive they simply refer to  as Michael: one calling him a strategic visionary, another noting that he`s a techie equal to any IT professional. 

 His passion for the technology clearly drives that vision. 

 DELL: Companies are trying to figure out, what does this information mean? You know, IT has gone from a sort of back-room activity to the board room, and it`s now -- this is going to fundamentally affect our survival as a business. 

 VARNEY: But Dell`s survival as a fast-growing business is still a matter of hot debate. As one skeptic put it, Dell`s the leader in a dying business as America`s No. 1 PC maker. That`s a key reason why Dell is remaking itself as a supplier of service, building the Internet infrastructure. 

 (on camera): Was there a moment then when the light bulb went off, you realized, this is it, this is a big thing? 

 DELL: If there was a moment, it probably would have been in 1994 when the Internet sort of first came into being inside of Dell, and we saw that this was just a tremendous tool that we could use to communicate with our customers. 

 I would tell you that a lot of our growth and development on the Internet has been experiential and that we couldn`t have known everything at the very beginning. There`s just no way you can anticipate all the different paths this will take you on. 

 VARNEY: What`s the next big thing? I mean, that`s a commonly asked question these days. We think the Internet is where it`s at now. What is next? 

 DELL: Well, you know, the next big thing, you know, isn`t necessarily just one thing. I mean, there are lots of things that are happening that are quite exciting. You know, right now, this build- out that`s going, you know, around us in terms of the Internet infrastructure is just tremendous. 

 The number of servers that exist today are roughly 5 percent of what will exist five years from now, as there`s just a huge proliferation of companies and specialized servers that are being developed for all sorts of activities, you know, online. So, that`s a massive opportunity for us. 

 VARNEY (voice-over): In a bid to grab that opportunity, Dell last year broke tradition by starring in his own ads. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP, DELL COMMERCIAL) 

 DELL: We`d like to show you how to empower your business in ways you`ve never imagined. I`m Michael Dell and it`s our reason for being. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 VARNEY: It was a major change for the 35-year-old Texan who dropped out of the University of Texas after a year to found his company: 16 years later Dell seems almost a reluctant member of the digital elite, sitting atop a $20 billion fortune. 

 (on camera): What are you going to do with it? 

 DELL: Probably give most of it away. 

 VARNEY (voice-over): But while Dell is known for his unassuming style, one analyst told us that many people miss the fire in him. It`s a drive that will be key in pulling off the second act that Wall Street is waiting for. 

 DELL: Well, fundamentally, I like to win. You know, I mean, that`s a pretty simple motivation that drives a lot of what I do. But more than that, you know, it`s great to be a part of an industry that is having profound effects on the way sort of everything functions in our society: from business to education to, you know, every aspect of society. And it`s really fun to be at the center of that. 

 There`s a lot of learning. There`s a lot of opportunity, a lot of excitement, a lot of change. And it`s great to be, you know, a part of that and to be able to be in that race. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: However, is Michael Dell involved in a real estate race 1,500 miles away from Round Rock, Texas? It`s a question that has New Yorkers buzzing on reports that Dell offered to buy the palatial Fifth Avenue apartment of Blackstone Group founder Stephen Schwarzman for $22 million. The latest report says that Dell, America`s fourth-richest man, actually lost out on the co-op to the chairman of Tyco International. 

 A Dell spokesman denies that Dell made a bid on the property. 

 Up next on MONEYLINE, "Ahead of the Curve." Stay with us please. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: The earnings parade: It heats up tomorrow with several companies expected to report. Among them: Advanced Micro Devices. Investors expect the chip-maker to report first-quarter profits of 52 cents a share after last year`s loss of 81 cents. 

 Fellow tech stock Rambus also due out. Investors looking for earnings of 14 cents a share, an increase of 75 percent over last year`s results. 

 Investment bank JP Morgan also due out. The street expects a profit of $2.75 a share. 

 Finally, Time Warner, parent company of CNN, expected to report a slight increase in profits. 

 That is MONEYLINE for this Tuesday. I`m Stuart Varney, and we thank you for joining us. 

 Good night from New York. "CROSSFIRE" is next. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc.  ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by   eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal  use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright  or other proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific  license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of  litigation. 

Document mnyl000020010808dw4b0007m




 UPDATE 4-Wells Fargo to buy Utah's First Security. 

 By Mary Kelleher 
755 words
10 April 2000
21:45
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, April 10 (Reuters) - Wells Fargo and Co. said on Monday it agreed to buy First Security Corp., Utah's biggest bank, for about $2.9 billion in stock, after stockholders of another Utah bank spurned a deal to buy the company. 

 San Francisco-based Wells Fargo, the country's seventh-largest bank holding company, said it would pay 0.355 shares of its stock for each First Security share, in a bid to expand its presence in one of the nation's fastest-growing states. The agreement values First Security at $14.11 a share, a 16 percent premium to its closing price on Friday. 

 Wells Fargo also expects to take $375 million in charges related to the deal. 

 The proposal comes after shareholders of Zions Bancorp, Utah's second-largest bank, voted last month against a proposed acquisition of First Security. That deal was originally worth $5.9 billion. But its value fell to about $3.4 billion after First Security warned of a slowdown in mortgage banking revenues, and Zions' investment bankers said the price tag was too high. 

 First Security, which is based in Salt Lake City along with Zions, ended its pact with Zions on April 2. 

 Zions, which claims to be the largest shareholder of First Security, said in a statement on Monday it was disappointed First Security had not shown any desire to renegotiate terms of their deal after its profit warning. But it said it did not plan to extend its offer for First Security. 

 The Wells Fargo proposal values First Security at $2.9 billion, based on First Security's 206 million shares outstanding and Wells Fargo's closing stock price of $39.56 a share on Monday. 

 Wells Fargo stock fell 11/16 to 39-1/6 on Monday while First Security's rose 1-3/16 to 13-3/8. 

 The combined bank would have the largest operation in terms of deposits in Utah, New Mexico, Nevada and Idaho, the companies said. First Security has $23 billion in assets and 333 branches, while Wells has $218 billion in assets. 

 "This is a terrific deal for Wells," George Bicher, an analyst at Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown, said. "It fits with their geographic franchise nicely and they are paying a very attractive price. I don't see much risk." 

 Most of First Security's problems were in its mortgage business, an industry that Wells Fargo dominates, Bicher noted. This should enable the combined bank to clear up any operational difficulties, he said. 

 The deal is expected to close in the second half of the year and add to Wells Fargo's earnings per share in the second year of operations. To get regulatory approval, the banks also said they expected to sell $1.2 billion in loans and deposits. 

 "The customers and cultures of our two companies are remarkably similar," said Dick Kovacevich, Wells Fargo's president and chief executive, in a statement. "Both companies compete not just in banking but in the far-larger, faster growing industry called financial services." 

 In addition to running branches, First Security owns CrossLand Mortgage, which has 135 offices in 28 states, as well as brokerage FS Van Kasper, which has 12 offices. 

 Under the original Zions deal, Zions holders would have gotten one First Security share for each share held and First Security holders would have gotten 0.442 shares of the new company which would have been known as First Security. 

 First Security warned in early March its first-quarter earnings were expected to fall short of forecasts because of slower mortgage banking revenues. It also blamed rising interest rates and temporary system problems last fall in its indirect auto and consumer lending business. 

 At the time, it said the decline was not expected to jeopardise its deal with Zions. 

 "I think it's absolutely amazing they got it done so quickly," one trader of takeover stocks said of First Security's new deal with Wells, speculating that First Security agreed to end the Zions deal without any litigation because it knew Wells Fargo was waiting in the wings. 

 First Security said on Monday its earnings would contain special charges for ending the deal with Zions. 

 "In the wake of the terminated Zions deal, First Security had few viable options," Sean Ryan, an analyst with Byrne, Ryan & Co., said of the latest deal. 

 ((Financial services desk 212-859-1644)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw4a02qf0




Business briefs
BUSINESS
Business briefs; Nation & World

Staff, Bloomberg News, Reuters, Associated Press   
664 words
8 April 2000
Houston Chronicle
HOU
3 STAR
2
English
Copyright 2000. Hearst Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

Hilfiger stock drops on earnings warning

NEW YORK - Tommy Hilfiger Corp.'s stock plunged more than 30 percent Friday, falling to a five-year low, after the fashion house warned earnings will be on the low end of analysts' expectations because of continued sluggish sales.

News of the earnings shortfall comes amid tough times for the trendy clothing manufacturer, which has been struggling in recent months with a steep decline in sales in both its men and women's lines.

This is the second profit warning by the New York-based company this year.

Hilfiger shares closed down 4 7/16, or 32 percent, at 9 3/8 Friday as one of the most active issues on the New York Stock Exchange, its lowest level since February 1995. Almost 11 million shares changed hands as a number of investment firms downgraded its stock.

Hilfiger said that its earnings per share for the fourth quarter of the fiscal year that ended March 31 would be at the low end of the expected range of 35 to 45 cents. Results are not scheduled to be reported until late May.

Intel may increase spending by 40%

SANTA CLARA, Calif. - Intel Corp. may boost capital spending this year by as much as 40 percent to $7 billion, as the world's biggest computer-chip maker looks to raise production to meet demand, analysts said Friday.

Intel, expected to be the industry's top spender this year, has said it will spend $5 billion, up from $3.4 billion last year. The biggest component of capital spending for the chipmaker is manufacturing and testing equipment.

Chip-equipment suppliers have seen surging orders from Intel in recent weeks, analysts said.

Intel, whose shares have increased 66 percent this year, rose 7 to 136 13/16 Friday.

Ben & Jerry stock up on takeover report

MONTPELIER, Vt. - Shares of Ben & Jerry's rose nearly 5 percent Friday on reports of a sweetened takeover offer for the socially active maker of such upscale ice cream flavors as Cherry Garcia, Chunky Monkey and Phish Food.

Neither Ben & Jerry's Homemade nor Dreyer's Grand Ice Cream would comment on a Wall Street Journal report Friday that Dreyer's had offered to buy Ben & Jerry's for $35 to $38 a share.

A few months ago, Dreyer's offered $31 a share. The latest Dreyer's bid would value Ben & Jerry's at between $250 million and $270 million.

Ben & Jerry's shares shot up $1.56 1/4, or 4.8 percent, to $34.12 1/2 on the Nasdaq.

Dreyer's fell $1.18 3/4, or 4.6 percent, to $24.93 3/4 on the Nasdaq.

Microsoft to show off new Windows version

REDMOND, Wash. - Days after a federal judge declared Microsoft Corp. an abusive monopoly, the software giant is giving the world a sneak peek at the latest consumer version of its Windows operating system, which boasts more Internet and multimedia features.

The latest test version of Windows Millennium Edition, also dubbed Windows Me, will be shown off to user groups around the country today, and shipped to computer makers and sellers next week for testing, said Shawn Sanford, group product manager for the consumer Windows division.

Windows Me is scheduled to go on sale in the second half of this year, possibly around the holiday season, Sanford said.

FTC signs off on sale of Burmah Castrol

LONDON - British lubricants company Burmah Castrol said Friday that the U.S. Federal Trade Commission had cleared its 3 billion ($4.75 billion) cash purchase by oil giant BP Amoco.

The transaction, which some thought would raise competition concerns when it was announced last month, is still subject to clearance by the European Commission and other regulatory authorities, Burmah said.

Bloomberg News, Reuters, the Associated Press and Chronicle staff contribute to this report.

Document HOU0000020120818dw4800wh6




 Business 
 Hilfiger stock plunges after weak earnings; Fashion house sees continued sluggish sales 

 Rachel Beck 
ASSOCIATED PRESS
494 words
8 April 2000
San Antonio Express-News
SAEN
Metro
02D
English
 (c) Copyright 2000 San Antonio Express-News. All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK - Tommy Hilfiger Corp.'s stock dropped more than 30 percent Friday, falling to a five-year low, after the fashion house warned earnings will be on the low end of analysts' expectations because of continued sluggish sales. 

 News of the earnings shortfall comes amid tough times for the trendy clothing manufacturer, which has been struggling in recent months with a steep decline in sales in both its men and women's lines. 

 This is the second profit warning by the New York-based company this year. 

 Hilfiger shares closed down $4.433/4, or by 32 percent, at $9.371/2 Friday as one of the most active issues on the New York Stock Exchange, its lowest level since February 1995. Almost 11 million shares changed hands as a number of investment firms downgraded its stock. 

 Hilfiger said its earnings per share for the fourth quarter of the fiscal year that ended March 31 were at the low end of the expected range of 35 cents to 45 cents. Results are not scheduled to be reported until late May. 

 In February, Hilfiger advised analysts of its expected profit range as it announced earnings would be reduced by $65 million before taxes in connection with a restructuring that includes closing its Beverly Hills, Calif., and London retail stores, and scrapping plans for a dressier women's line. 

 On Friday, the company also revised its outlook for the new fiscal year, predicting earnings would be 30 percent to 40 percent lower than fiscal 2000. 

 Industry watchers said Hilfiger was having trouble because it moved into too many different areas of business. 

 Hilfiger used to be known for its trendy red, white and blue casual clothes for men and boys, but now it makes products for women and girls as well as home furnishings. 

 The depressed profits also are a result of shoppers turning to other designers and retail chains for their casual clothes. 

 "Its problems just continue to snowball," said Joseph Teklits, an analyst at Ferris Baker Watts Inc. in Baltimore. "It is a big ship and it started to go astray last year. You can't steer it back in a season." 

 Hilfiger is taking steps to boost its bottom line and reduce ballooning costs. But the company still warned Friday that its cost-cutting measures will be offset by big expenses to open more retail stores and develop its Web business, Tommy.com. 

 Hilfiger in February announced it had hired Morgan Stanley Dean Witter to perform a review of its various strategic and financial options, including acquisitions and new business opportunities. 

 From that review, the company announced Friday it decided to buy back as much as $150 million in stock. 

 Hilfiger also was reportedly interested in buying designer brand Calvin Klein Industries Inc., but those talks apparently stalled in recent weeks over the purchase price. 

Document saen000020010813dw4800a0v




 U.S. stocks hold gains, top tech shares lead indices. 

 By Kristin Roberts 
675 words
7 April 2000
18:42
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, April 7 (Reuters) - Technology stocks spiked higher in early afternoon trading on Friday as investors moved more cash into typical sector leaders after friendly economic data capped a rocky week on Wall Street. 

 The broader market also climbed amid strength in the bond market, and U.S. blue chips edged higher on gains in leading technology names. 

 "This is not the kind of market that is going to take it on the chin for more than a few days at a time," said Larry Rice, chief investment officer at Josephthal Lyon & Ross, noting the rebound in tech leaders after a steep slide early this week. 

 "We had that big downdraft and everybody was ready to bury the stocks, but of course we bought them back on the dips, as we have for the last year," Rice said. 

 By early afternoon, the Nasdaq composite index was up 3.18 percent, or 134 points, at 4,402. Nasdaq's bellwether names led the composite higher and the Nasdaq 100 index of top stocks was ahead 3.47 percent to 4,228. 

 Computer-chip leader Intel Corp. jumped 5-9/16 to 135-3/8, while Cisco Systems gained 2-7/16 to 74-3/16 and Microsoft Corp. rose 5/8 to 86-5/8. 

 Strength in tech stalwarts buoyed the blue chips, and the Dow Jones industrial average rose 54 points, or 0.49 percent, to 11,168. Shares of Hewlett-Packard were up 4-11/16 to 152-11/16, helping offset weakness in financial and telecommunications stocks. 

 The broader, widely watched Standard & Poor's 500 index gained 1.01 percent, or 15 points, to 1,516. 

 The U.S. Treasury 30-year bond was up 28/32, pushing the yield down to 5.72 percent from Thursday's 5.78 percent. 

 "We're starting to see some confidence built back into the market after the volatility we've seen in the last couple of days," said Mark Loftus, senior vice president for investment at First Union Securities in Itasca, Ill. "There is definitely some bottom-fishing going on out there." 

 Trading volumes were relatively light, with 908.6 million shares trading on Nasdaq an hour after midday, and 507.8 million shares changing hands on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Stocks got an initial jolt from U.S. jobs data, released before the opening bell, showing that nonfarm payrolls grew by 416,000 and the unemployment rate remained at 4.1 percent in March. Economists had forecast that payrolls would rise by 376,000 and the jobless rate would dip to 4 percent. 

 The jobs numbers could be a key for the Federal Reserve as it ponders whether to raise rates again to cool the economy and forestall inflation. 

 The central bank's rate-setting panel next meets on May 16. The Fed has raised short-term rates five times since June 1999, and Wall Street has already factored in another 0.25 percentage point rise. 

 Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan is to speak about securities market regulation next week before the Senate Banking Committee. 

 Among the most active stocks, financial shares moved lower. American Express fell 1-1/8 to 139-7/8 and J P Morgan & Co. lost 2-5/8 to 132. The Philadelphia Stock Exchange's bank index dipped 0.79 percent to 793. 

 Wall Street was also focused on retail stocks following a profit warning from Tommy Hilfiger Corp., the popular fashion brand known for its red-white-and-blue logo. The stock dropped 4-7/16 to 9-3/8, a new low, and analysts cut their investment ratings on the shares. 

 Shares of J.C. Penney slipped 1/4 to 13-7/8 after Prudential cut its price target on the stock and recommended that investors swap Penney shares for shares of Sears, Roebuck. Sears shares were unchanged at 37 after inching higher in early trade. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw4702r4i




 UPDATE 3-Tommy Hilfiger sees Q4 profits off. 

 By Anna Driver 
695 words
7 April 2000
19:28
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 CHICAGO, April 7 (Reuters) - Tommy Hilfiger Corp. , the hip American fashion brand known for its red-white-and-blue logo, said on Friday its fiscal fourth-quarter profits would be at the low end of its previous forecasts, due in part to weak retail demand for its men's and women's clothing. 

 The company also said its operating earnings for fiscal 2001 could fall 30 to 40 percent, hurt by continued pressure on gross margins and costs from growth initiatives. 

 The profit warning sent shares of Hong Kong-based Tommy Hilfiger down more than 30 percent. The stock was off 4-7/16 at 9-3/8 in afternoon trade on the New York Stock exchange after scoring a fresh 52-week low of 9-1/4. 

 Tommy Hilfiger, which sells its products in department stores and in its own retail and outlet stores, said earnings per share for the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2000 would be at the low end of its forecast range of 35 to 45 cents a share. That figure excludes a previously announced pretax charge of up to $65 million for cost-cutting measures. 

 In addition to slack demand for men's and women's apparel, lower order backlog and retailers' increased emphasis on inventory controls hurt results, the company said. 

 Tommy Hilfiger expects fiscal 2001 overall revenues to be flat to 5 percent lower compared with fiscal 2000. 

 Securities analysts expected Tommy Hilfiger to earn 39 cents a share in the fourth quarter and $2.20 a share for the year before charges, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. For the year ending March 2001, analysts projected Tommy Hilfiger would earn about $2.43 a share. 

 Analysts said sales suffered after Tommy Hilfiger alienated its original customer base after a switch from traditional apparel to more cutting-edge, fashion-oriented clothing. 

 "Now they have this classic advertising campaign that features a number of movie stars from the past," said Mitch Kummetz, an analyst with A.G. Edwards. "They're trying to get back to the notion that Tommy is an American classic brand." 

 Tommy Hilfiger is changing its merchandise mix to include more basic items and more preppy clothing in a bid to win back some of the Baby Boomers that initially helped the company grow, Kummetz said. 

 In February, the company said it planned to open new stores in Los Angeles, New York, south Florida and London. The fashion house also said it would expand its stores in White Plains, New York, and Dallas, as well as close two existing stores in Beverly Hills, California, and in London. 

 The company will report its earnings in late May for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended in March. For the year ended March 1999, the company reported net income of $173.7 million, or $1.86 a share, on sales of $1.64 billion. 

 In an effort to shore up its flagging share price, Tommy Hilfiger also said on Friday it would buy back $150 million of its shares. As of March 31, 2000, the company had about 95.5 million shares and share equivalents outstanding. 

 In February 2000, the company hired Morgan Stanley Dean Witter to review strategic and financial options including acquisitions, new business opportunities and the repurchase of company shares. 

 Following Friday's announcement, Merrill Lynch analyst Brenda Gall cut her rating on Tommy Hilfiger to neutral from accumulate, according to a research note. 

 "Because we are disappointed with the results of Tommy's strategic review (the size of the buyback and no acquisitions at this time) we expect the shares to be 'dead money' over the near to intermediate term and are lowering our intermediate term from accumulate to neutral," Gall wrote. 

 In March, the Wall Street Journal reported that merger talks between Tommy Hilfiger and designer brand Calvin Klein had stalled over the price. 

 Moody's Investors Service said on Friday it had placed Tommy Hilfiger's debt under review for a possible downgrade. 

 ((-Chicago Equities News at 312-408-8787, chicago.equities.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw4702ksj




 UPDATE 2-Tellabs shares drop after  profit warning . 

524 words
6 April 2000
19:43
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 CHICAGO, April 6 (Reuters) - Shares of Tellabs Inc. showed volatility in afternoon trade Thursday after the telecommunications equipment company warned that first-quarter profits would fall below expectations. 

 The company's stock traded as low as 52-7/16, nearing the low end of the 52-week range of 45-12/16 to 77-4/16, and as high as 60, before trading off 4-7/16 at 56-9/16 on Nasdaq. 

 Analysts had mixed feelings on whether the earnings warning indicated trouble, or was simply a side-effect of robust demand for Tellabs' products. 

 The Lisle, Ill.-based company said late Wednesday it expected first-quarter profits to come in around 25 cents to 27 cents per share before one-time items, compared with the analysts' consensus estimate of 30 cents. 

 Tellabs cited lower gross profit margins, largely stemming from higher-than-expected component costs and increased customer service installations, which has a much lower margin than products. 

 Robert Wilkes, telecommunications analyst with Brown Brothers Harriman, expressed some concern with the lower margin. He noted that Tellabs has enjoyed higher gross margins than some of its competitors, and there had been some concern that investors would see Tellabs' margins fall closer to those of its rivals rather than its rivals' margins rise to Tellabs' level. 

 "I think it increases investor nervousness about the margin issue," he said. "The issue for me in the long term has been, can they sustain the margins?" 

 In a conference call with analysts, Peter Guglielmi, executive vice president and previous chief financial officer, emphasised that accelerating growth rates are offsetting the lower margin. 

 The company said it expects to report revenues of about $630 million for the quarter, somewhat above expectations and up 35 percent compared with last year. 

 "Notwithstanding the short term pricing issues and a small bump in the road, we're very excited about our future prospects," Guglielmi said, adding that he was comfortable with analysts' second-quarter earnings per share expectations of 38 cents, as well as year-end EPS expectations of $1.66. 

 "My preliminary conclusion is that I don't think this is a bad thing at all," said David Toung, telecommunications analyst with Argus Research. "When you have higher-than-expected sales of your main product and higher sales of CABLESPAN, I think both of those are positives." 

 Toung reiterated his buy rating on the company, but ABN AMRO telecommunications analyst Kenneth Leon lowered his rating on the stock to outperform from top pick after the earnings warning. He had expected Tellabs to earn 32 cents per share, which was above the consensus forecast. 

 Leon also cut his 12-month price target to $75 from $90 and lowered his earnings per share estimate for 2000 to $1.65 from $1.69 and his 2001 EPS estimate to $2.15 from $2.25. 

 "Tellabs has been a name that we counted on for consistent performance. Component shortages and a product mix shift to new products like Cablespan put more strain on gross margins," he said in a research note. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw4602t4b




 UPDATE 2-Tellabs shares drop after  profit warning . 

553 words
6 April 2000
20:38
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 (Recasts lead, adds background and details para 12-14, updates stock price, para 2) 

 CHICAGO, April 6 (Reuters) - Shares of Tellabs Inc.  showed volatility in afternoon trade Thursday after the telecommunications equipment company warned that first-quarter profits would fall below expectations. 

 The company's stock traded as low as 52-7/16, nearing the low end of the 52-week range of 45-12/16 to 77-4/16, and as high as 60, before trading off 4-7/16 at 56-9/16 on Nasdaq. 

 Analysts had mixed feelings on whether the earnings warning indicated trouble, or was simply a side-effect of robust demand for Tellabs' products. 

 The Lisle, Ill.-based company said late Wednesday it expected first-quarter profits to come in around 25 cents to 27 cents per share before one-time items, compared with the analysts' consensus estimate of 30 cents. 

 Tellabs cited lower gross profit margins, largely stemming from higher-than-expected component costs and increased customer service installations, which has a much lower margin than products. 

 Robert Wilkes, telecommunications analyst with Brown Brothers Harriman, expressed some concern with the lower margin. He noted that Tellabs has enjoyed higher gross margins than some of its competitors, and there had been some concern that investors would see Tellabs' margins fall closer to those of its rivals rather than its rivals' margins rise to Tellabs' level. 

 "I think it increases investor nervousness about the margin issue," he said. "The issue for me in the long term has been, can they sustain the margins?" 

 In a conference call with analysts, Peter Guglielmi, executive vice president and previous chief financial officer, emphasised that accelerating growth rates are offsetting the lower margin. 

 The company said it expects to report revenues of about $630 million for the quarter, somewhat above expectations and up 35 percent compared with last year. 

 "Notwithstanding the short term pricing issues and a small bump in the road, we're very excited about our future prospects," Guglielmi said, adding that he was comfortable with analysts' second-quarter earnings per share expectations of 38 cents, as well as year-end EPS expectations of $1.66. 

 "My preliminary conclusion is that I don't think this is a bad thing at all," said David Toung, telecommunications analyst with Argus Research. "When you have higher-than-expected sales of your main product and higher sales of CABLESPAN, I think both of those are positives." 

 Toung reiterated his buy rating on the company, but ABN AMRO telecommunications analyst Kenneth Leon lowered his rating on the stock to outperform from top pick after the earnings warning. He had expected Tellabs to earn 32 cents per share, which was above the consensus forecast. 

 Leon also cut his 12-month price target to $75 from $90 and lowered his earnings per share estimate for 2000 to $1.65 from $1.69 and his 2001 EPS estimate to $2.15 from $2.25. 

 "Tellabs has been a name that we counted on for consistent performance. Component shortages and a product mix shift to new products like Cablespan put more strain on gross margins," he said in a research note. ((-Yukari Iwatani, Chicago Equities News at 312 408 8787, chicago.equities.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw4602t0t


 Business 
 Nightly Business Report 

 Jeff Yastine, Susie Gharib 
4,450 words
3 April 2000
23:30
Nightly Business Report
NBR
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 SUSIE GHARIB, NIGHTLY BUSINES REPORT ANCHOR:  The judge throws the book at Microsoft (MSFT) --- this book-- ruling the company violated U.S. anti-trust law. Anticipation of that news hammered Microsoft stock and pushed down the NASDAQ by about 350 points, its biggest single day point loss ever. But the Dow soared, gaining 300. Good evening, everyone. I`m Susie Gharib in New York City. 

 JEFF YASTINE, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT ANCHOR:  And I`m Jeff Yastine in Miami. Paul Kangas is off tonight. We`ll have complete coverage of the Microsoft ruling and what it means to investors. And we`ll ask one of Microsoft`s rivals, Red Hat (RHAT), what it means to them. Its stock was red hot in after hours trading. 

 GHARIB:  Good evening, everyone. An historic day for Microsoft and an historic day for Wall Street.  The NASDAQ plunged 349 points, its biggest one-day point decline ever. And much of the sell-off was because of Microsoft. The stock plummeted more than 15 points, or about 14.5 percent, in anticipation of a harsh ruling this afternoon from the judge in the government`s anti-trust case against the software giant. And a harsh ruling is what it got. Joining us live now from Washington with details on that ruling is Stephanie Woods. Stephanie? 

 STEPHANIE WOODS, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT:  Susie, here it is, the long- awaited conclusions of law.  While there aren`t many surprises. Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson came out with very harsh words for Microsoft. Not only did Microsoft abuse its monopoly power, but "trammeled the competitive process." 

 It was an instant best-seller, as members of the media and interested parties swarmed the government bookstore to get a copy of Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson`s conclusions of law. The judge ruled Microsoft broke the law, maintaining its monopoly power by anti-competitive means, attempted to monopolize the Web browser market, and unlawfully tied its Web browser to its Windows operating system. The judge concluded in biting language that "viewing Microsoft`s conduct as a whole reinforces the conviction that it was predacious." The Justice Department says the ruling sets the stage for a tough remedy. 

 JOEL KLEIN, ASST. ATTY. GENERAL, ANITRUST DIVISION:  The department is committed to finding a remedy that will protect consumers, innovation and competition by putting an end to Microsoft`s widespread and persistent abuse of its monopoly power. 

 WOODS:  But Microsoft prevailed on one count. The judge did not find the software giant`s use of exclusive distribution agreements unlawful, saying Microsoft`s competitor, Netscape`s Web browser, could still be used with Windows. Microsoft is now focusing on its appeal. 

 BILL GATES, CHAIRMAN, MICROSOFT:  While we did everything we could to settle this case and will continue to look for new opportunities to resolve it, we believe we have a strong case on appeal. 

 WOODS:  The next step is the so-called remedy phase. This is where the Justice Department and the 19 states have to make a recommendation on what action they want taken against Microsoft. And joining me now is Bill Baer, who is a former anti-trust attorney at the Federal Trade Commission. Bill, what do you think the appropriate remedy will be? 

 BILL BAER, FMR. ANTITRUST ATTORNEY:  Well, you heard Joel Klein. It`s going to be tough, it`s going to be enforceable remedies. They are going to be looking for prohibitions on the conduct that got Microsoft in trouble in the first place and second, remedies that will allow competitors who have been foreclosed from competing today to have an opportunity to compete tomorrow. 

 GHARIB:  Susie Gharib here, do you think that the Justice Department is going to go for a breakup or what are we hearing political tough talk? 

 BAER:  It is you a tough to tell, Susie. I think given that the Justice Department in the settlement negotiations backed away from the breakup talk, they my go for something less but you hear Joel Klein. It`s going to be tough. 

 GHARIB:  And actually, Joel Klein, and he also said today that this is going to set the ground rules for enforcement in the information age. Do you think this is a dangerous precedent for technological innovation? Microsoft today. Who is next? 

 BAER:  I don`t think it`s dangerous at all. What we basically have done is adopted a rule which says as a high tech monopolist has to be careful and can`t foreclose competition. If that`s all that comes out of this ruling, consumers are going to be better off because there will be more opportunities to compete. 

 GHARIB:  All right. We`ll see what happens. Thank you very much, Bill Baer for joining us and Stephanie Woods from our Washington bureau. 

 Well, from Washington now to Wall Street.  Investors decided their verdict even before the judge`s ruling.  They dumped the stock and here`s Scott Gurvey with the Wall Street reaction. Scott? 

 SCOTT GURVEY, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT:  Susie, by the time the trading day had ended, Microsoft had lost 14.5 percent of its value, $75 billion off its market cap, as investors took to the sidelines to await the court decision. 

 Investors began dumping Microsoft stock over the weekend, as news the settlement talks had failed raced around the world. The stock opened down nearly $12 and lost another four and change by the end of the day. Some saw this as a buying opportunity. 

 ANDREW ROSKILL, COMPUTER ANALYST, WARBURG DILLON READ:  I`d point out that it`s trading at a P/E multiple roughly half that or less of most of the other big cap large technology gorillas, such as Oracle (ORCL) or Cisco (CSCO). So I think  it`s - if you have a long term investment horizon, it`s probably a pretty good time to get involved in the stock. 

 GURVEY:  But most urged caution. Hanging over the company and its shareholders is uncertainty about the remedies the court will attempt to apply. Restrictions on Microsoft`s business practices may or may not impact the bottom line. A fine, even a big one, is seen as only a minor problem. But a structural remedy, perhaps breaking up the company, remains possible. Still most believe current holders should hang tight. 

 RICHARD SHERLUND, TECHNOLOGY ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS:  I think you have a thick skin. I think you put some faith in the appeals process. And these things hopefully work their way out and provide a buying opportunity in the stock, and it`s a little too early to think that all the bad news is out, but I think that`s pretty rapidly being discounted in the stock. 

 GURVEY:  Microsoft actually traded up a little bit in after-hours trading after the decision came out. 

 GHARIB:  Very interesting reaction by investors. What do did you hear from analysts today and what are they saying about Microsoft in portfolios? Is it still one of those core holdings you have? 

 GURVEY:  Yes, it definitely is.  The question is whether or not if you don`t own it, you want to buy it now. But if you do own it, hold on to it. It is still a core holding. 

 GHARIB:  All right.  Well, thanks for the update on all of that. Scott Gurvey here in New York and now, let`s go to Miami and Jeff. 

 YASTINE:  As you heard, the blue chips were the place to be today, with the Dow and NASDAQ indices forming almost exact mirror opposites of each other. Let`s go right to the boards. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average moving higher right at the open, jumping more than 100 points in the first hour of trading. Bonds were strong, and New York Stock Exchange breadth positive by a 7 to 5 margin. 

 The index moved sideways through the remainder of the morning. But by noontime it was 120 points higher. However, it was all sellers on the NASDAQ, of course as the index opened 100 points lower from Friday`s close and the damage just got worse and worse after that; it appears a lot of the buyers from late last week just threw in the towel; the day was just a series of cascades lower. 

 In late afternoon, the NASDAQ`s loss was the Dow`s gain as more buyers came in to buy Wal*Mart (WMT) and other blue chips. The Industrial Average went on to close up 300 points, or 2.8 percent gain at 11,221.93, settling only about two points below its best level of the day. The NASDAQ Composite collapsing by 349 and a fraction at 4,223.68, settling just 30.5 points above its low. 

 Big board trading volume considerably higher from Friday`s level on the big board with yet another session of more up volume than down volume. 

 Transports falling more than 57. 

 Utilities rising about 1.5. 

 And the Closing Tick mildly bullish at + 70. 

 In the Broader market, the S&P 500 and S&P 100 both gaining 7 and 5 points respectively. 

 The MidCap 400 falling about 19.25 points. 

 And the CRB Bridge Futures Price Index ending down about 2 points. 

 The New York Stock Exchange Composite Index rising nearly 12. 

 The Value Line down nearly 3. 

 The Russell2000 Small Cap Index dropping 23, about a 4 percent loss there. 

 And the broadly based Wilshire 5000 falling 1.2 percent, down 174 points today. 

 Bonds shrugged off news about a continued strong economy, and instead benefited from flight-to-safety buying out of the NASDAQ. A report on manufacturing activities showed that sector continued to grow for the 14th straight month but the same report showed a sharp rise in prices paid by manufacturers for raw materials. Also, the Commerce Department reported construction spending has not slowed down either. It rose an unexpected 1.5 percent last month. All that kept long-end Treasuries from rising further, but overall the bond market did have a good day at the expense of tech stocks. 

 The 5-year note rising 6/32. 

 The 10-year note rising 10/32. 

 And the 30-year bond gaining 13/32. 

 The Lehman Brothers Long-Term Treasury Bond Index gaining about 2.5 points. 

 I`ll be back later to show you what happened on Wall Street today. Susie. 

 GHARIB: Jeff, so what`s next for Microsoft (MSFT) and for the rest of the stock market? And joining me live now is Robert Doll. He is the Chief Investment Strategist for Merrill Lynch Asset Management. Hi, Bob. 

 ROBERT DOLL, CIO, MERRILL LYNCH ASSET MANAGEMENT: Susie, how are you? 

 GHARIB: I`m fine, thanks. I mean you are a big owner of Microsoft stock in all of your funds. At this point, buy, sell or hold? 

 DOLL: We think that at best, hold. We are significantly underweighted in Microsoft, having less than one percent positions across the board. This was a four percent weighting in the Index and therefore as the action has been off first quarter, the stock underperformed, we saw that in spades today as the clouds continue 

 GHARIB: But if you`re a new investor and you don`t own Microsoft, is this a good time to buy it or why would you want to own it? 

 DOLL: I would be patient here, Susie. My guess is with the cloud a lot of this is unanalyzeable territory. It`s not a matter of can we fix the margins or get our sales growth higher. It`s a question of where this government reaction comes out. And our guess is sticking on the sidelines is the best for Microsoft at this point. 

 GHARIB: Well, Microsoft`s sell-off had something to do, I believe, with the NASDAQ sell-off. I mean was it Microsoft or was it something else? What`s your take on the NASDAQ today? 

 DOLL: Well, certainly Microsoft was part of the reason or the excuse that lots of folks will use. But as you know, in the last few weeks a lot of see sawing in and out of the NASDAQ. Our guess is new quarter, the scare about Microsoft, folks looking at valuations of kind of the old versus the new economy and saying I don`t want to only own new economy as represented by the NASDAQ. I`ll own some Dow stocks. Remember, the Dow is where it was last May and NASDAQ, despite today`s decline, is still up 70 percent year over year. 

 GHARIB: But it is down like 16 percent since its March high. Is this the beginning of a bear market for the NASDAQ? 

 DOLL: Well, it certainly it is a significant correction. The fundamentals from an earnings standpoints for those companies that have earnings is still pretty good. The economy seems OK. But given the huge rise we`ve had our guess is there`s probably more sell-off to go in the NASDAQ. 

 GHARIB: All right, do you think that this weakness in the technology stocks or what you are calling the new economy stock could infect the rest of the market? 

 DOLL: Well, I think it probably could and we should distinguish, a lot of the stocks that were down today were a lot of stocks that don`t have earnings. Many even technology stocks that have earnings were up today. We think more of that continues. But without technology it`s going to be difficult for the market to make significant forward progress. But we`ll get more of this bifurcation, one index up, another index down. 

 GHARIB: All right, real quickly. We just have a few seconds left. Is it too early to be a buyer now of these weak technology stocks or some of these other beaten down stocks? 

 DOLL: If I were underweighted in technology, I would begin nibbling on the 16 percent weakness as you point out. But unfortunately most folks are still significantly overweighted and I would wait before adding to positions for those overweighted investors. 

 GHARIB: OK, thank you very much. Bob. 

 DOLL: Thanks, Susie. 

 GHARIB: We appreciate you talking to us. We`ve been speaking with Bob Doll of Merrill Lynch. 

 YASTINE: The decision on Microsoft has been years in the making. For nearly 10 years now the company has been tangling with government regulators. In May of 1990, the Federal Trade Commission launched the first of two probes of Microsoft, but no charges result. In 1993, the Justice Department takes on the company and one year later, Microsoft signs a consent decree which forbids the company from using its dominance in PC operating systems against competitors. 

 In December of 1997, Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson (ph) rules that Microsoft broke the terms of that consent decree, but the ruling is later overturned on appeal. In May of 1998, the Justice Department and some states launch a broader anti-trust case against the company. And 18 months later, Judge Jackson announces his findings of fact on the case, finding that Microsoft is, indeed, a monopoly and that the company`s actions have hurt consumers. And of course, today`s decision adds another chapter, but not the final one, to the Microsoft story. 

 GHARIB: Of course the old economy stocks or the so-called old economy stocks getting the largest portion of the gain today. You can see the Dow up a little over 300 points and advances and declines almost matching there, and about 19 more highs than new yearly lows. 

 America Online (AOL) leading the active list, down 2 3/4. 

 Pfizer (PFE) rising 1 3/4 after Deutsche Bank Alex Brown issuing a "buy" on the stock with a $45 share price target. The firm believes its first quarter results, due within the next week or so, could show about 13 percent sales growth. 

 Philip Morris (MO) gaining 1 11/16. All eyes are on the Engle (ph) tobacco case in Florida. Analysts believe proposed state legislation could perhaps derail the plaintiffs` case there. 

 Compaq (CPQ) edging up 13/16. 

 Citigroup (C) advancing 2 5/8. Bank stocks all doing well today. 

 Wal-Mart (WMT) surged 6 3/16, investors finding some relative safety in the giant retailer. 

 AT&T (T) climbing 1 3/4. 

 And Bank One (ONE) finishing up 2 7/16. 

 Shares in Conseco (CNC) down 2 3/8, down a similar amount on Friday, when the company said it would sell its mobile home financing unit and take a $350 million charge. 

 Bank of America (BAC) rising 3 1/16. 

 Among the widely helds, American Express (AXP) up 6 9/16. IBM (IBM), Wal-Mart (WMT) and AXP all helping to give the Dow a huge boost today. 

 Anadarko Petroleum (APC) down 4 3/16. The company is acquiring 53 percent of Union Pacific Resources in a stock swap with about $15.50 a share. 

 DuPont (DD) jumping 4 11/16. 

 And Kroger (KR) rising 1 5/16, the supermarket chain receiving board approval to buy back about up to $715 million of common stock. 

 Charles Schwab (SCH) ending up 9/16, but traded as high as 60 7/8 after the online trading firm forecast first quarter earnings to be in the range of $0.31 to $0.33 a share. That`s about $0.05 to $0.07 above Street estimates, said average trading volumes easily doubled year ago levels. 

 Safeguard Scientifics (SFE) losing 11 1/4, down with the NASDAQ today. 

 Among the big movers, Fletcher Challenge Paper (FLP) rising 4 1/4. Its parent company is selling its paper and pulp assets to Norway`s Norse Skog (ph) for about $2.5 billion. 

 And American National Can Group (CAN) up 4 1/16 to 17 3/16. Rexam PLC (REXMY) has agreed to buy the company for 18 bucks a share. 

 Pier 1 Imports (PIR) rising 1 5/8, the housewares retailer expected to earn about $0.32 a share when it reports quarterly results on Thursday. 

 And Entrade (ETA) down 4 -- 5 1/2, rather, marking a fifth straight session, decline touched off by last week`s fourth quarter loss and of course a pull back in business to business e-commerce issues. 

 Louis Dreyfus Natural Gas (LD) falling nearly 5 points, J.P. Morgan downgrading the stock from "buy" to "market perform" based on valuation. And Ucar International (UCR) falling 1 1/16 to 12 1/8. That`s on a downgrade from Goldman Sachs. 

 And of course here`s the torturous drop for the NASDAQ, volume nearly 400 million shares less than Friday and twice as more issues down than up. 

 Dollar volume leaders here, there`s the damage on Microsoft (MSFT), down 15 3/8 today. 

 Cisco Systems (CSCO) falling 4 3/8. 

 Intel (INTC) dropping 1 5/16. 

 Oracle (ORCL) falling 1 3/16. 

 Sun Micro (SUNW) falling 3 57/64. All of the big cap tech stocks getting hammered today. 

 Veritas (VRTS) ended down 19 1/2. 

 QUALCOMM (QCOM) tumbling 8 9/16. 

 A similar drop in JDS Uniphase (JDSU) 

 And Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) falling 11 1/4. 

 Dell Computer (DELL) slipped just a fraction, though. 

 Among the big movers, Legato Systems (LGTO) dropping 24 3/4. The company says it may need to restate 1999 results. 

 Shares in Parametric Technology (PMTC) dropped 10 5/16. That`s in reaction to a second quarter profit warning. 

 And 724 Solutions (SVNX) down 43 1/2, yet another battered e-commerce issue there. 

 On the AMEX, the Composite Index hit hard as well today, down a little over 27 points. 

 And among the movers, PAB Bankshares (PAB) standing out, rising 2 thanks to optimism about growth in the financial sector. 

 And one of the more volatile stocks, Xcelera.com (XLA), losing 33 3/4 points. 

 And on the Index Shares, all closing with a mixed finish. 

 The NASDAQ 100 shares hammered for 7 1/2 points today. 

 GHARIB: The stock of Red Hat (RHAT) surged more than 5 points in after hours trading today. It`s one company that could benefit from Microsoft`s legal troubles. The North Carolina company sells a different kind of operating system for personal computers called Linux. 

 With me now to talk about the outlook is Red Hat`s CEO Matthew Szulik. Mr. Szulik, thank you very much for being with us. 

 MATTHEW SZULIK, CEO, RED HAT, INC.: Good evening. 

 GHARIB: I`m just wondering, what do you think is the immediate impact of today`s ruling about Microsoft? What does it mean for Red Hat? 

 SZULIK: Well, the impact is, confirms what many of us in the technology business have been experiencing and going through over the last few years. And it continues to reinforce that the customers want choice, customers want the flexibility and the speed of innovation of alternative selections like Red Hat Linux. 

 GHARIB: Now, the Justice Department felt that this ruling would now make it more favorable towards consumers and that they, you know, now have more choice. But analysts who I`ve talked to said that they really don`t see consumers turning away from Microsoft and going to alternative operating systems like Linux. What are your thoughts on that? 

 SZULIK: Well, while your pure consumer play, that is probably appropriate. But where we see the greatest energy going on is within the Internet service providers and Web hosting companies, new e-commerce startups, software developers that are looking to leverage the power, the speed, the flexibility of Linux. These are the companies that are building next generation computing architectures for the Internet and that`s where we`re seeing the biggest benefit for the consumer. This should relate to lower cost for the consumer. 

 GHARIB: Mr. Szulik, the next stage in this whole Microsoft case is the remedies part. What would you think would be an appropriate remedy? 

 SZULIK: Well, I`m in the computer software business. I`m not in the legal profession. You know, from our standpoint, you know, we believe very firmly in open source software. We believe very firmly in a very flexible licensing agreement that encourages collaboration amongst and leveraging the speed of development amongst the worldwide software development community. And we encourage the free distribution of our software because we believe what the consumer wants is the speed of innovation and the flexibility of making choice. So -- 

 GHARIB: But more specifically, because this is a marketplace and you said you want more choices, I mean what specifically would you like to see happen? 

 SZULIK: Regarding the remedies? 

 GHARIB: Yes. 

 SZULIK: Well, I guess I would like to see certainly an organization with that kind of financial muscle be able to innovate at a more rapped rate. I think we`re all for free and fair competition if that would provide benefit to the customer in terms of lower prices, speed of innovation, more reliable software and as evidenced by the IDC reports so far, Red Hat Linux certainly, and Linux in general, has been the operating system to provide that in comparison to the other proprietary capabilities. 

 GHARIB: All right, thank you very much for talking to NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT. We appreciate it. 

 SZULIK: Thank you. 

 GHARIB: We`ve been speaking with Matthew Szulik, CEO of Red Hat. 

 YASTINE: Tomorrow, how did your mutual funds do in the first quarter? A look at the winners and losers. 

 GHARIB: Mattel (MAT) is cleaning out its toy chest. The toy maker said today it`s getting ready to sell The Learning Company, its troubled children`s software unit. Mattel says the price tag will be much less than the $3.5 billion it paid for the company. Losses at The Learning Company led to the recent resignation of Mattel`s CEO Jill Barad (ph). Today Mattel stock, though, rose half a point to 10 15/16. 

 YASTINE: There may soon be a for sale sign at Nabisco (NA). The company`s board of directors today said it will explore alternatives, including the sale of the company. The board also says it is not interested in corporate raider Carl iCahn`s (ph) latest offer, calling it inadequate and an attempt to take advantage of the uncertainty surrounding tobacco litigation. Shares of Nabisco Group Holdings rose 1/8 to 12 1/8. 

 GHARIB: A programming note. Due to our coverage of the Microsoft decision tonight, we`ve had to cancel our first quarter stock market report and we`ll bring you are our latest tax tips installment later in the week. 

 YASTINE: And recapping today`s market action, a huge gain and a huge loss. The Dow had the gain, up 300 points. The NASDAQ had the loss, down 349. 

 And please join us at our World wide Web site, NBR.com, or on America Online, keyword: NBR. 

 GHARIB: And finally tonight, a different perspective on today`s Microsoft ruling. When Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates went to bed last night, he was worth about $83 billion. But after today`s big sell-off in Microsoft`s stock, Gates is not as rich. He lost $11 billion today. Gates is the company`s biggest shareholder. He owns 15 percent of Microsoft`s outstanding shares. And, you know, Jeff, $11 billion isn`t pocket change even for the world`s richest man. 

 YASTINE: I`m sure he wouldn`t miss it though, a billion here, a billion there. After a while -- 

 GHARIB: It begins to add up, though. 

 YASTINE: Exactly. 

 GHARIB: I`ll take one of those billions, how about that? One for you and one for me. 

 YASTINE: We could split it, how`s that? 

 GHARIB: We`ll split it even. 

 YASTINE: That`s NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT for Monday, April 3rd. I`m Jeff Yastine. Good night, everyone. Good night to you, Susie. 

 GHARIB: And just, on second thought, who wants to be a billionaire, right, Jeff? Good night, Jeff. I`m Susie Gharib. We`ll see all of you again tomorrow night. 

 END 

 TO PURCHASE A VIDEOTAPE OF THIS PIECE, PLEASE CALL  888-266-3601 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc.  Formatting and transcription copyright 2000 eMediaMillWorks, Inc.  (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No quotes from the materials contained herein may be used in any media without attribution to Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. This transcript may not be copied or resold in any media. 

Document nbr0000020010808dw430001u

Search Summary

 Text((“profit*” same “warning*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”))) OR ((“profit*” same “fall*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“headwind” same “profit*”) (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”)))   Date04/01/2000 to 04/30/2000   SourceAll Sources   AuthorAll Authors   CompanyAll Companies   SubjectCorporate/Industrial News   IndustryAll Industries   RegionUnited States   LanguageEnglish   Results Found30   Timestamp27 March 2018 10:01  
 Page 135 of 135     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

