 
•	 StorageTek's profits plummet 86%
•	  FFBN Hlth Wrap: McKesson HBOC Shares Plummet 47.5% 
•	  Read-Rite Posts Wider-Than-Expected Loss, Will Slash 2,500 Jobs 
•	  PC slowdown - what slowdown? 
•	  CORRECTED - FOCUS-Weak QI, but Wella sees good 1999 profit. 
•	  Rite Aid has trimmed. 
•	  Despite Profit, Boeing Faces Big Questions on Eve of Annual Meeting 
•	 AT BOEING, A BOSS IN LIMBO; CONDIT LEADS A TURNAROUND, BUT DISILLUSIONMENT PERSISTS
•	  FOCUS-Richfood loses big account, sees lower net. 
•	  Richfood loses big account, sees profit, tax impact. 
•	  This bull has plenty of stamina. 
•	  Investment - US bulls lead the charge as market enters new cycle. 
•	  Ryder Says Earnings Declined 41%, Weighs Sale of Some Assets 
•	  Compaq Met Analysts' Reduced Targets, Calls Results `Unacceptable' 
•	  California-Based Drug Maker Reports Measures Improving Quality Control 
•	 Watson reports measures improving quality control Critical FDA letter has hurt stock price
•	  Investors Continue To Slam Network Associates As Future Looks Grim 
•	 CEO, CFO OUT AT COMPAQ AFTER  PROFIT WARNING
•	  Earnings Slip at Caterpillar, But Drop Is Below Forecast 
•	  Caterpillar Reports Lower 1Q Net Amid Latin America Woes 
•	 Storagetek issues  profit warning  and begins staff cuts
•	 Storage Technology Shares Slump On 1st-Quarter  Profit Warning
•	  Intel Reports Earnings Increase 
•	  International Paper, Cyclicals Rise As Brokerage Firms Rally Again 
•	  Reverses on Nasdaq persuade Trintech to consider dual listing. 
•	  FFBN Gaming/Lodging Wrap: Starwood Confirms Rumors 
•	 U.S. Shares In London Flat; Mkt  Cautious  Ahead Of Key Data
•	  Compaq Warning Leads Tech Stocks Lower in Europe 
•	 Most Asian Markets Fall, Spooked By  Profit Warning  From Compaq
•	  AlliedSignal, Caterpillar Move Up As Industrials Set Another Record 
•	 Compaq's Stock Skids on  Profit Warning  --- Shares Fall 22% as PC Firm Blames Industry Woes; Analysts  Cut  Forecasts
•	 Compaq Shares Sink on  Profit Warning  --- Analysts Question PC Maker's Ability to Compete as Demand Declines
•	  Analysts Ponder Implications Of Compaq's Warning On PC Industry 
•	  Midday Europe Forex:Dlr Falls Vs Yen As Wall Street Shudders 
•	  Salomon, Compaq -2: Firm Cuts '99 View 79c, To $1.14/Shr>CPQ 
•	  Compaq Seen Leading PC Stocks Down At Open >CPQ 
•	  Digital, Sales Strategies Hit Compaq, Analysts Say 
•	  Belgian Bel-20 seen off after Compaq warning. 
•	  INTERVIEW-Compaq CEO blames price wars for Q1 miss. 
•	 FOCUS-Compaq stock slides after  profit warning .
•	  Eurobonds see flurry of fresh high-grade supply. 
•	  Toronto stocks down 1 pct at open. 
•	  U.S. dollar swap spreads narrow amid stock rally. 
•	 FOCUS-Compaq stock slides on  profit warning .
•	  FOCUS-Compaq warning staggers Asian markets. 
•	  FOCUS-Caution steers Asian stocks back from rally. 
•	 Compaq shares slide 23 percent on  profit warning .
•	 Compaq  Profit Warning  Raises Queries About Its Abilities to Compete, Integrate
•	  Sun Healthcare Reports Wide Loss, Sees Job Cuts Rising To 10,000 
•	 RESEARCH ALERT - Celestial Seasonings  cut .
•	  Computer-Services Firms Are Expected To Meet Analysts' 1st-Quarter Estimates 
•	 Tea maker Celestial sinks on warning, rating  cut .
•	  U.S. News Brief: Gillette Confirms 2nd-Quarter Profit Likely Will Fall; Shares Shaved 13% 
•	  Software Firms Project Weak Earnings for Quarter 
•	  Gillette Co. Confirms Lower Earnings News; Shares Tumble 13% 
•	 Gillette Stock Sags After  Warning  That  Profit  Won't Meet Forecasts
•	  Dow opening hangs in balance after record Monday. 
•	  Gillette shares are shaved at stock market open. 
•	 Food stocks slide after Gillette  profit warning .
•	  Software Firms Expect Earnings To Fall Short 
•	 Richfood issues  profit warning  after stock falls.
•	  WALL ST WEEK AHEAD/Goldilocks meets the Titanic. 
•	  Goldilocks meets the Titanic. 
•	  WSI Industries -2: Shares Fall To 52-Week Low >WSCI 
•	 PeopleSoft to Report Sales  Decline  On Demand Slowdown in First Period
•	 Silicon Graphics issues Q3  profit warning



BUSINESS
StorageTek's profits plummet 86%

923 words
30 April 1999
The Denver Post
DNVR
FRI1
C-03
English
Copyright © 1999 The Denver Post Corp. Distributed by NewsBank, Inc.   

Storage Technology Corp., the No. 1 maker of corporate computer tape-storage systems, said its first-quarter profit fell 86 percent, meeting diminished expectations after it warned about weak sales.

Net income fell to $5.8 million, or 6 cents a share, from $40.6 million, or a split-adjusted 37 cents, a year earlier. It was expected to earn 7 cents, the average estimate of analysts polled by First Call Corp. after the April 15 profit warning. It previously was expected to earn 42 cents. First-quarter revenue rose 6.7 percent to $517.5 million from $484.9 million.

The profit warning was the second in as many quarters for Storage Technology, whose products store large amounts of data from spread sheets to Internet sites to e-mail. It also said at that time that it would cut 500 jobs, or 6 percent of its U.S. workers, as it copes with slow sales of a new product and production delays on another.

Rock Bottom Restaurants

Rock Bottom Restaurants Inc. of Louisville, operator of Rock Bottom Restaurant & Brewery restaurants and Old Chicago restaurants, reported a net loss for the three months ended March 28 of $363,201, or 5 cents per share on 8.0 million basic and diluted weighted-average shares outstanding, compared with a restated net loss of $305,131, or 4 cents per share on 8.1 million basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding, for the same three-month period in 1998. The loss is primarily attributable to $984,973 of acquisition transaction costs incurred during the quarter relative to the merger agreement between the company and RB Capital Inc.

Revenues for the three months ended March 28 increased 6 percent to $40.8 million compared with $38.6 million for the three months ended March 29, 1998. ICG Communications

ICG Communications Inc. earned $106.7 million, or $2.29 per share, for the quarter ended March 31, compared with a loss of $101.8 million, or $2.30 per share, during the same period a year ago. The Arapahoe County telecommunications company had sales of $129.5 million, up 64 percent from $78.9 million for the year-ago quarter. Most of that revenue came from the company's telecom services. Telecom services sales totaled $104.3 million for the March quarter, up 78 percent from $58.5 million during the first quarter of 1998.

Asset Investors

Asset Investors Corp., a Denver real estate investment trust specializing in manufactured home communities, reported profits of $2.3 million, or 35 cents a share, for the first quarter ended March 31. That compares with $1.9 million, or 30 cents a share, for the same quarter a year ago - a 16.7 percent increase. Adjusted funds from operations rose to $2.3 million or 34 cents a share - up 17.2 percent from $1.9 million or 29 cents a share for the same quarter a year ago. The increase resulted fromacquisitions of and increased net operating income from manufactured home communities. Jones International

Jones International Networks Ltd., radio and cable television programming provider, reported consolidated revenues for the quarter ended March 31 of $12.5 million, an increase of $5.9 million, or 90.0 percent, over the prior year's first quarter. The company generated $1.2 million of consolidated EBITDA for the quarter compared with $0.1 million of consolidated EBITDA in the same period of the prior year.

Dii Group

The Dii Group reported first-quarter profit of $8.9 million, or 31 cents per share, up 30 percent from $6.8 million, or 25 cents, in the first quarter of 1998, excluding nonrecurring charges. Revenues for the quarter, ended April 4, were $247 million, up from $235 million during the same period last year. Revenues for fiscal 1999 are expected to increase about 30 percent over 1998, the company said.

Factual Data

Factual Data Corp., a Loveland-based provider of mortgage and consumer lending information, reported profit of $508,533, or 13 cents per share, for the first quarter ended March 31, a 10 percent increase over the same period last year. Revenue jumped 238 percent over last year, at $5.35 million. The company went public in May 1998.

StarTek

StarTek Inc. reported a profit of $2.4 million, or 18 cents per share, for the first quarter ended March 31, a 61 percent increase over last year. First-quarter revenue rose to $40.9 million from $24.3 million, an increase of 68 percent, and operating income climbed 78 percent to $3.3 million from $1.8 million.

eBay Inc.

eBay Inc., the Internet's leading auctioneer, said first-quarter profit rose more than 12-fold, beating expectations, as it drew more customers to its Web site. eBay said its profit from operations rose to $7 million, or 5 cents a share, from $569,000, or 1 cent, a year earlier. eBay was expected to earn 2 cents, the average estimate of analysts polled by First Call Corp. The company first sold shares to the public in September.

Commercial Assets

Commercial Assets Inc., a Denver real estate investment trust that has begun to acquire interests in manufactured home communities, reported earnings of $1.2 million, or 11 cents a share, for the first quarter ended March 31. That compares with $1.1 million, or 11 cents a share for the fourth quarter of 1998. The company attributed the increase to acquisition of more communities.

Document DNVR000020150820dv4u01a7y




 FFBN Hlth Wrap: McKesson HBOC Shares Plummet 47.5% 

1,298 words
29 April 1999
14:09
Federal Filings Newswires
FF
English
(c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


ISSUER: FEDERAL FILINGS BUSINESS NEWS
SYMBOL: X.FFI
=======================================================================
                   "The Daily Health Care Market Wrap-Up"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
           Published By The Federal Filings Health Care Group
                           April 29, 1999
=======================================================================



         Health care stocks took it on the chin Wednesday as the Federal
Filings Health Care Index plummeted 58.28 points, or 5.5%, to 993.91.
The prime mover yesterday was the Pharmaceutical Distributors/Pharmacy
Services Index, which plunged 21.2%.  And it should come as a surprise
to no one that McKesson HBOC Inc. (MCK) dragged the group down.
         As has been widely reported, shares of McKesson saw their value
cut almost in half yesterday as the company said improper accounting at
its recently acquired HBO & Co. health-care information-management
business caused it to restate fiscal fourth-quarter results and lower
profit outlook for the current year.
         As this morning's Wall Street Journal reports, McKesson said
$26.2 million in health-care software sales included in the period ended
March 31 weren't final and should not have been recorded, based on an
independent audit that is continuing.  The accounting problems surfaced
in a year-end audit when customers responded to information requests
from the auditors, McKesson said.  The stock plunge sent class-action
lawyers racing to the courthouse.  At least nine law firms filed suits,
one of which said it had been retained by shareholders barely five hours
after the announcement.
         When the carnage was over, McKesson stock stood at 34 1/2, down
47.5%, or 31 1/4.
         Several of McKesson's peers also were trading lower.  Cardinal
Health Inc. (CAH) slipped 4 15/16 to 60 7/8, a 7.5% drop.  AmeriSource
Health Corp. (AAS) was off 1 5/16 to 29 11/16, or 4.2%.
         The Health Care Products Index lost 4.2%, led by another
dramatic downturn on the part of a single stock.  Shares of Steris Corp.
(STE)gave up 7 3/4, or 32.5%, to 16 1/8.  Though the company reported
quarter and year-end results that, on the surface, appeared to beat
analyst estimates, analysts said the shares fell on concerns that fiscal
fourth-quarter earnings fell below expectations and that revenue growth
will be slower than forecast.  Late Tuesday the company reported
earnings of 41 cents a diluted share for the three months ended March
31.
         While the results appeared above consensus estimates of about
36 cents, Dow Jones Newswires reported, analysts said the company
benefited from a substantially lower tax rate of 18.4% compared with 38%
to 39% typically. At the usual tax rate, the company's earnings would
have been in the range of 30 to 31 cents.
         The Health Care Information Index dropped 2.5% to end at 88.85
points.  Eciplsys Corp. (ECLP) lost 2 1/2 to 23 1/2, a 9.6% loss.
Health Plan Services Inc. (HPS) gave back 11.1% of its share value,
declining 13/16 to 6 1/2.
         The news wasn't all bad yesterday, at least insofar as the
Managed Care Companies Index was concerned.  Buoyed by a strong first-
quarter showing, shares of Aetna Inc. (AET)  rose 10 3/8 points, or
12.7%, to 92.  First Health Corp. (FHCC) shares took on 1 3/8 to 16, a
9.4% uptick.  As reported earlier in the week, a group including
investor Richard C. Blum lifted its stake in First Health to 10.3%.
WellPoint Health Networks Inc. (WLP) added 4 1/16 (5.7%) to 75.
         The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 13.74 points to
10845.45.  Broader market indices were uniformly lower, as the NASDAQ
Composite Index gave up 52.04 points to 2550.37.  The Standard and
Poor's 500 Stock Index finished the trading day at 1350.91, off 11.89.
COMPANY NEWS:
                                              Net     Pct    EPS   EPS
                                      Close  Change  Change  99E   00E
MCKESSON HBOC CORP. (MCK)            34 1/2 -31 1/4  -47.5% $2.06 $2.97
Shares of McKesson HBOC fell after the company restated its earnings for
the fiscal fourth quarter and year ending March 31 and issued an
earnings warning.
The company said it had found about $42.2 million in software sales that
were improperly recorded during its fiscal 1999.  Accordingly, it
restated its fiscal fourth-quarter operating net to 56 cents per share
from 62 cents, and year operating net to $1.97 per share from $2.06.
McKesson also reduced its earnings goal for fiscal 2000 to
$2.50 per share from $3.00.
Dow Jones reported that company executives said the software issue
emerged from a year-end auditing process in which customers provided
certain information in response to confirmation requests.  That led to a
follow-up procedure that involved discussions that included the
company's accountants and resulted in Wednesday's action, McKesson said.
McKesson said early yesterday that during the course of its
year-end financial audit process, the company determined that software
sales transactions aggregating $26.2 million in the fourth quarter and
$16 million in the prior quarters of the fiscal year were improperly
recorded because they were subject to contingencies and have been
reversed.
The company said the audit process is ongoing, and said there is a
possibility that the company may identify more contingent sales.
After the reversals, McKesson said its overall health-care information
technology revenue growth rate was 3% for the quarter and 18% for the
year, compared with 10% for the quarter and 21% of the year before the
reversals.  The company said the growth rate for software revenue after
the reversals is a decline of 5% for the quarter and a gain of 13% for
the year, compared with increases of 21% for the quarter and 22% for the
year prior to the reversals.  The reversals also decreased the growth
rates for each of the fiscal year's prior three quarters.
Underlying the new 1999 earnings target is the assumption that the
company's health-care information technology business software revenue
will decrease from fiscal 1999, McKesson said.
                                              Net     Pct    EPS   EPS
                                      Close  Change  Change  99E   00E
STERIS CORP. (STE)                   16 1/8 -7 3/4  -32.5%  $1.16 $1.40
Steris reported net income for the fourth quarter ended March 31 of 41
cents per share, several pennies above the Zacks consensus estimate of
36 cents per share.  For the year ago fourth quarter, the company's net
income was 29 cents per share.
Earnings per share reflects the effect of a 2-for-1 stock split on Aug.
24, 1998.  Steris said Health Care group revenues rose 11% in the
fourth quarter, while Scientific & Industrial group revenues rose 11%.
The company expects fiscal year 2000 revenues of more than $900 million
and net income of over $100 million.  Steris said revenues from current
core health care business should grow by 8%-to-10% during the period and
current core scientific/industrial business should rise by 12-14%.
The company expects other sales initiatives to contribute incremental
revenues of $15 million to $25 million.  Gross profit margin is expected
to improve by 2% because of the continued benefits of manufacturing
synergies, volume efficiencies, and product mix.
Steris executives lowered estimates of revenue growth for fiscal year
2000 to "the mid-teens range" to better guide analysts' expectations,
according to Michael Keresman, chief information officer.
"Fifteen to 20% (revenue growth) was somewhat of a three-to-five-year
objective," Keresman told Dow Jones.  "With the growth we had this past
year, people are looking for a map to get to that 15% range."
BT Alex. Brown Inc. analyst Bruce Jacobs told Dow Jones the company



(MORE) FEDERAL FILINGS-DOW JONES NEWS 04-29-99



09:09


Document ff00000020010827dv4t013lu




 Read-Rite Posts Wider-Than-Expected Loss, Will Slash 2,500 Jobs 

393 words
27 April 1999
01:46
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Disk drive parts maker Read-Rite Corp., which warned last month that it would post a second-quarter loss, late Monday posted a loss even wider than many analysts had expected, citing a tight market. The company also announced it will cut 14% of its work force and take a third-quarter charge. 

 Milpitas, Calif.-based Read-Rite (RDRT) said its net loss for the fiscal second quarter ended in March came to $19.4 million, or 39 cents a share on a fully diluted basis, compared with a loss of $62.2 million, or $1.29 a diluted share, a year earlier. Revenue increased 10% to $206.2 million. 

 The mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call was for a net loss of around 17 cents a share. Before the company issued its warning, however, analysts had been looking for the company to post a profit of around seven cents a share. 

 The company said it will lay off 2,500 employees, or about 14% of its 18,257-person world-wide work force, and take a third-quarter charge of between of $25 million and $30 million related to the job cuts. It estimated the moves will result in quarterly savings of $10 million to $15 million. 

 Read-Rite said it expects an operating loss in the fiscal third quarter, and sales below those of the second quarter. In the year-ago fiscal third quarter, Read-Rite posted a loss after restructuring charges of $137.2 million, or $2.82 a share, on sales of $184.2 million. 

 Read-Rite said total heads shipped in the second quarter were 19.3 million, down 15% from the first quarter. 

 The company expects the market will remain tight through 1999, with price pressure in the desktop segment and a trend for fewer heads per drive. 

 Last July, Read-Rite laid off 4,000 employees in Malaysia and said it was moving its manufacturing operations there to existing plants in Thailand and the Philippines. At the time it said it was consolidating operations because product oversupply, severe pricing pressures and a move toward fewer recording heads per disk drive have cut demand for magnetic recording heads. 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020329dv4r02dye


 News 
 PC slowdown - what slowdown? 

 Dominique Deckmyn in Silicon Valley 
475 words
27 April 1999
Newswire (VNU)
VNUN
English
Copyright (c) 1999 VNU Business Publications Ltd.; Source: World Reporter (TM)

 Less than three weeks ago, a surprise profit warning from Compaq sparked fears of a general PC market slowdown, but the latest numbers from analysts IDC and Dataquest prove otherwise. PC manufacturers saw their stocks take a heavy hit after Compaq issued a profit warning. Chief executive Eckhard Pfeiffer, who has since been forced to resign, said at the time that the results were due in part to a generalised PC market slump - a contention that was soon debated by several industry analysts. But apparently, it seems to be a Compaq specific complaint. On Monday, market research firms IDC and Dataquest both published their numbers for the first quarter. Worldwide PC shipments in the first quarter were down sequentially from Q4 of 1998, but that is a normal seasonal pattern. More tellingly, unit sales were up a robust 19 per cent year over year, according to IDC. The US market was up 24 per cent. 

 "It seems to fly in the face of allwe heard three or four weeks ago," admitted Christine Arrington, an analyst with IDC. She added: "I really think the market as a whole is very healthy." As it turns out, all of the top five PC vendors posted solid growth - even Compaq itself, which sold more than 3.5 million PCs, up ten per cent from last year. And IBM, whose chief executive wrote in the company's annual report that the PC era was over, actually appears to be making a strong comeback in the PC market. In other good news for the PC business, the launch of the Pentium III processor has sparked strong sales of high end systems, said Arrington, slowing the decline in average selling prices. Despite its disappointing quarterly earnings, which cost Pfeiffer his job, Compaq remains the number one PC vendor witha worldwide market share of 14.5 per cent, down from 14.9 per cent a year ago, according to IDC's numbers. Dell held 10 per cent share, up from 7.8 per cent last year. IBM also saw solid growth, growing its market share to 8.9 per cent from 8.1 a year ago. The numbers four and five, Hewlett-Packard and Packard Bell NEC, both lost some share for the quarter. In the US market, the picture is very similar, except that Gateway holds the third position with 9.3 per cent share, up from 8.2. As in previous quarters, Dell outshone all competitors by growing 55 per cent in the US and 52 per cent worldwide compared to thefirst quarter of 1998. Dell was helped by the fact that its business follows less pronounced seasonal patterns than that of its competitors, who traditionally have weak first quarters. To comment on this story, email newswire@vnu.co.uk 

Document vnun000020010830dv4r002zt




 CORRECTED - FOCUS-Weak QI, but Wella sees good 1999 profit. 

663 words
27 April 1999
16:39
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

     In Darmstadt item ...Weak Q1, but Wella sees good 1999 

  profit... please read in para 7 ... 63.4 million euros and sales 

  of 2.2 billion euros... instead of ...63.4 million marks and 

  sales of 2.2 billion marks... corrects currency. 

 A corrected repetition follows. 

 By Melanie Cheary 


DARMSTADT, Germany, April 27 (Reuters) - German haircare and fragrance group Wella AG		  on Tuesday forecast further double-digit profit growth this year despite a decline in first quarter sales due to emerging market financial crises.



Although economic problems in the key markets of Russia and Asia damaged sales, prompting a profit warning late last year, Wella succeeded in posting a 29.2 percent surge in net profit for 1998 to 130 million marks.



Sales last year inched 1.7 percent higher (four percent up on an adjusted basis) to 4.3 billion marks but Wella's performance in January-March 1999 showed a 6.1 percent fall in sales (3.8 percent down on an adjusted basis).



"Profit in the first quarter is significantly below the previous year's levels but higher than expected," Wella Chairman Joerg von Craushaar told reporters. He gave no figures.



But Wella forecast a 4-5 percent increase in sales in 1999 despite the weaker start to the year and had no doubts the market situation in Russia and Brazil would improve and Wella would achieve its sales aim of five billion marks in 2000.



"1998 would have been a fantastic year if we hadn't been weighed by those lands that suffered economic trouble....1998 was a small blip in our strategy....We are calm that we will achieve this," von Craushaar said.



The results were in line with an average of 15 analyst forecasts collected by Paris-based Jacques Chahine Finance which gave a 1998 net profit consensus of 63.4 million euros and sales of 2.2 billion euros.



Wella said it planned to seek approval at its June 9 annual meeting to buy back up to 10 percent of its own shares and to split its shares in a one-to-26 ratio.



Von Craushaar said the share split was because many private investors found Wella shares too expensive to hold. Numerous German companies are buying back their own shares to reduce liquidity and help their share price higher.



By 1423 GMT Wella's widely traded preference shares		   were 71 euros higher at 728 euros after rising to 734 euros earlier. The overall market was 1.5 percent higher.



The group announced that it plans to increase its 1998 dividend by two marks for both ordinary and preference shares to 15 marks and 16 marks respectively.



Wella said while all segments of its haircare, cosmetics and fragrance businesses contributed to last year's growth, the Wella haircare brand was the powerhouse. Its professional hair business raised 1998 sales 3.5 percent to 1.91 billion marks.



"Especially in the segment of hair colouring, two digit rates of growth could be achieved by means of innovative product concepts," von Craushaar said, adding he expected Wella's new marketing campaign to help drive growth.



But due to an above-average currency-related shortfall in sales in Asia and Russia, Wella's retail business revenues fell 1.2 percent to 1.61 billion marks.



Turning to Wella's cosmetics and fragrance business, von Craushaar said prestige brands such as Gucci and Rochas were particularly successful last year, growing sales 16 percent.



Sales in cosmetics and fragrances rose 3.2 percent to 750 million marks.



Wella posted 1998 earnings according to DVFA German accounting standards of 162 million marks compared with 127 million and income from ordinary activities of 248.8 million marks compared to 195.5 million marks. It said DVFA earnings per share were 62 marks (31.7 marks) versus 49 marks. ((Frankfurt Newsroom +49 69 756525, frankfurt.newsroom@reuters.com)).



(C) Reuters Limited 1999.


Document lba0000020010908dv4r027jp




 Rite Aid has trimmed. 

426 words
26 April 1999
Drug Store News
DRSN
6(1)
ISSN: 0191-7587
English
Copyright 1999 Gale Group Inc. All rights reserved.

 CAMP HILL, Pa. -- Rite Aid has trimmed its 1999 expansion plans following a weaker-than-expected fourth quarter, which saw the chain's earnings per share fall by 39 percent. 

 The chain now expects to open about 300 new stores this year, compared with about 578 new and relocated units in 1998. Initially, the chain had planned to open about 500 new stores this year. With the reduced store-opening program, Rite Aid has reduced its capital expenditure budget for 1999 by about $175 million, or from $625 million to $450 million. 

 Rite Aid also disclosed in mid-April that it is considering other options for reducing its debt by about $100 million to $200 million, The chain took on debt of $1.5 billion in its acquisition of PCS Health Systems. 

 A Rite Aid spokesman said Rite Aid has not ruled out an equity offering, which had been the central part of the company's initial plan for refinancing the PCS deal. The chain also is weighing other unspecified alternatives. "That's all we're prepared to say at this point," the spokesman added. 

 In announcing fourth quarter earnings, Rite Aid noted that last year's aggressive store-opening plan in the fourth quarter was a factor in the company's earnings shortfall. Martin Grass, chairman and chief executive, said the delay in a distribution center opening also contributed to the earnings decline. 

 Grass also noted that Rite Aid's East Coast stores continued an excellent performance in the fourth quarter, while the West Coast units are continuing to show improvement. Overall, the retailer reported same-store sales rose 8.9 percent in the quarter, which included a 16 percent rise in same-store pharmacy sales and a 1.8 percent increase in comparable-store sales at the front end. 

 "We will meet the challenges we currently face by pursuing the successful business strategy that has fueled Rite Aid's growth over the past four years," Grass said. Rite Aid's store-opening program in 1999 will proceed "at a measured, sustainable pace. This will result in reduced new-store related expenses in fiscal year 2000," he said. 

 For the fourth quarter, Rite Aid earned $73 million, or 28 cents per basic and diluted share. The retailer previously had issued a profitwarning and, at the time, projected earnings in the 30- to 32-cent range. Sales rose 11.7 percent to $3.57 billion in the quarter. In the year-ago quarter, Rite Aid earned 44 cents per diluted share. 

Document drsn000020010827dv4q000aj


 Despite Profit, Boeing Faces Big Questions on Eve of Annual Meeting 

 Stanley Holmes 
1,442 words
25 April 1999
KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Seattle Times - Washington
KRTBN
English
Copyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)

 Boeing's higher first-quarter profit, announced earlier this month, boosted morale around the aerospace company, especially for Phil Condit, its embattled chairman and chief executive officer. 

 But on the eve of the annual shareholders meeting in Los Angeles, Boeing continues to face monumental questions. Among them: Is Condit the man to turn the company around and lead it into the 21st century? 

 Inside Boeing's factories and offices, across the aerospace industry and on Wall Street, that question looms large. 

 The 57-year-old Condit, a 34-year Boeing employee who rose through the company's ranks, has long been popular with the rank and file. But internal surveys taken over the past year, as Boeing has begun to eliminate about 48,000 jobs, show large numbers of employees don't trust senior executives and doubt Boeing is making the changes needed to compete effectively. 

 Many portray a company still divided by different cultures, still wrestling to redefine itself, still lacking a coherent direction. Some directly cite what they see as a lack of leadership from Condit. 

 "Everybody likes Phil, but everybody is kind of sad because they expected more from him," said Stan Sorscher, a Boeing commercial-airplane engineer and executive board member of the Seattle Professional Engineering Employees Association. "People are disappointed and disenchanted with his leadership. ... 

 "We understood and loved Phil's vision," Sorscher said. "But that vision is in limbo. We don't know what to do. We would all love to have a clear direction and work hard for the future of the company." 

 Others cite what they describe as the abrasive management style of Boeing's second-in-command, President Harry Stonecipher, and question whether he is running the company rather than Condit. They believe the impatient Stonecipher has sought to remold Boeing in the image of the company he formerly ran, McDonnell Douglas, which Boeing purchased for $16.3 billion in a deal many Boeing employees now derisively call a "reverse takeover." 

 Condit's base of support has clearly narrowed. 

 "I'm surprised he has not left already," said Charles Hill, professor of management at the University of Washington. "The reason I'm surprised is that Wall Street demands accountability from a CEO if the company is underperforming." 

 Hill cited Compaq Computer's decision last week to fire its chief executive, Eckhard Pfeiffer, after he led the computer maker through a series of missteps. Those included a first-quarter profit shortfall, failure to develop a plan to combat rival Dell Computer and concerns that Compaq didn't give investors adequate warning about its financial plight. 

 Those issues sound familiar to many Boeing investors. 

 Boeing's financial slide began shortly after it consummated its takeover of McDonnell Douglas in August 1997. 

 Incorporating the failing Douglas Aircraft into Boeing's commercial-airplane division at a time when it was grappling with its own production problems drained an unexpected $3 billion from Boeing coffers. 

 That same year, Boeing posted a $178 million annual loss -- its first in half a century. 

 And profit fell far short of expectations in 1998, when the company should have been piling up cash from a boom in jet orders. Boeing's share price fell 33 percent last year, making it the Dow Jones industrial average's worst performer. 

 "Whether you like it or not, the problems happened under (Condit's) watch. I think his credibility is shot," said Byron Callan, aerospace analyst for Merrill Lynch. "He has apologized, but apologies are not enough. He has not yet unveiled the plan that clearly demonstrates that Boeing knows what it needs to do to get the show back on track." 

 Condit will face one of his greatest challenges this summer: Juggling the contract demands of Boeing's tough Machinists union with Wall Street demands for cutting more costs and outsourcing more union work. That could prove to be a no-win situation. 

 As Boeing prepares to enter contract talks with the Machinists this summer, some critics say the company's strategy in the last round of negotiations in 1995 contributed to the financial problems that later emerged. 

 Company leaders forced a strike with the Machinists when they needed those workers to handle a surge in airplane orders, said Peter Aseritis, an aerospace analyst for Credit Suisse First Boston. 

 In pricing its planes, Boeing executives misjudged the cost to build and deliver them, Aseritis said. And they misjudged rival Airbus Industrie's ability to compete in a market-share war. 

 "I've never run across a more concerted misjudgment by a management in the 17 years I covered aerospace companies," Aseritis said. 

 Speculation about Condit's job was even more rampant in December, after several other top Boeing executives were fired because of the company's financial problems. The board of directors left him in place, but opinion persists that Condit is on thin ice. 

 A Boeing spokeswoman denies Condit's job is on the line. 

 "That is not true. It is absolutely not true," said Boeing spokeswoman Judith Muhlberg. "Phil says he is not aware of any board displeasure." 

 Boeing board members, who meet in Los Angeles tonight, did not respond to requests for interviews. 

 Condit still has his supporters. One of his staunchest is a key customer, Herb Kelleher, the popular chairman of Southwest Airlines, which flies only Boeing 737s. 

 "He is a great analyst, a superb engineer, gives other people credit and tries to foster a real community at Boeing," Kelleher said. "He is truly, in my estimation, a very special human being." 

 And there are clear signs that Boeing is digging itself out of its deep financial hole. 

 Boeing investors and board members got some good news in the first three months of this year. Citing substantial improvements in its commercial-airplane division, Boeing said first-quarter profit was $469 million, or 50 cents a share, compared with $50 million, or 5 cents a share, in the same quarter a year ago. Sales jumped 11 percent, to $14.4 billion from $12.9 billion. 

 The company's commercial-airplane division has nearly eliminated costly factory bottlenecks and is building a record 620 jets this year. Nearly all of the airplanes will be delivered on time, officials say. But the profit margin on those planes still looks to be thin. 

 Boeing's new chief financial officer, Debby Hopkins, who joined the company late last year, has helped ease Wall Street fears with a serious and credible examination of the company's bloated cost structure. Her study called for selling or abandoning $1.3 billion worth of unprofitable programs. 

 Now Hopkins is working on a more rigorous financial plan that she will unveil next quarter. Investors also have praised her willingness to disclose more detailed financial information, which Boeing previously refused to share with investors. 

 In the past two quarters, earnings have reflected these improvements by outperforming modest expectations. 

 For many investors, however, two strong quarters cannot erase the reality of Boeing's deeper troubles: continued high manufacturing costs, a bloated management structure, a divisive culture war and a downturn in global airplane orders. 

 Investors want to see a financial plan and a leader that gives them confidence that Boeing is in strong hands. 

 "They have to have the right management, the right cost structure and the right business plan to make money in the next airplane cycle," said Nick Heymann, an aerospace analyst for Prudential Securities. 

 Heymann said Boeing is focusing too much on cutting jobs and not enough on making the company more competitive for the next century. 

 "The rest of the fix is how to re-engineer and build the aircraft so it can snap together more quickly with less people, less tooling and more efficient locations," he said. "And that's the more substantive part of this process to get the corporation back in shape internally by the time the next (order) cycle starts up about 2003." 

 Condit is steering the company in the right direction, but he may have wasted too much time getting credible results, analysts say. 

 For the man groomed to be the seventh leader of the world's largest aerospace company, such talk must be especially painful. 

 Since joining Boeing in 1965 as an engineer on the Supersonic Transport program, it seemed Condit was destined for the top job. 

 "He's a silver spoon kind of guy," said one former Boeing executive. "He was always going to the top. If there were five people there were five opinions, but his opinion would always prevail. Everybody thought Phil walked on water, until recently." 

Document krtbn00020010828dv4p00q57




BUSINESS
AT BOEING, A BOSS IN LIMBO; CONDIT LEADS A TURNAROUND, BUT DISILLUSIONMENT PERSISTS

STANLEY HOLMES   
SEATTLE TIMES AEROSPACE REPORTER
1,470 words
25 April 1999
The Seattle Times
SETL
FINAL
G1
English
Copyright 1999, The Seattle Times Company  All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

Boeing's higher first-quarter profit, announced earlier this month, boosted morale around the aerospace company, especially for Phil Condit, its embattled chairman and chief executive officer.

But on the eve of the annual shareholders meeting in Los Angeles, Boeing continues to face monumental questions. Among them: Is Condit the man to turn the company around and lead it into the 21st century?

Inside Boeing's factories and offices, across the aerospace industry and on Wall Street, that question looms large.

The 57-year-old Condit, a 34-year Boeing employee who rose through the company's ranks, has long been popular with the rank and file. But internal surveys taken over the past year, as Boeing has begun to eliminate about 48,000 jobs, show large numbers of employees don't trust senior executives and doubt Boeing is making the changes needed to compete effectively.

Many portray a company still divided by different cultures, still wrestling to redefine itself, still lacking a coherent direction. Some directly cite what they see as a lack of leadership from Condit.

"Everybody likes Phil, but everybody is kind of sad because they expected more from him," said Stan Sorscher, a Boeing commercial-airplane engineer and executive board member of the Seattle Professional Engineering Employees Association. "People are disappointed and disenchanted with his leadership. . . .

"We understood and loved Phil's vision," Sorscher said. "But that vision is in limbo. We don't know what to do. We would all love to have a clear direction and work hard for the future of the company."

Others cite what they describe as the abrasive management style of Boeing's second-in-command, President Harry Stonecipher, and question whether he is running the company rather than Condit. They believe the impatient Stonecipher has sought to remold Boeing in the image of the company he formerly ran, McDonnell Douglas, which Boeing purchased for $16.3 billion in a deal many Boeing employees now derisively call a "reverse takeover."

Condit's base of support has clearly narrowed.

"I'm surprised he has not left already," said Charles Hill, professor of management at the University of Washington. "The reason I'm surprised is that Wall Street demands accountability from a CEO if the company is underperforming."

Hill cited Compaq Computer's decision last week to fire its chief executive, Eckhard Pfeiffer, after he led the computer maker through a series of missteps. Those included a first-quarter profit shortfall, failure to develop a plan to combat rival Dell Computer and concerns that Compaq didn't give investors adequate warning about its financial plight.

Those issues sound familiar to many Boeing investors.

Boeing's financial slide began shortly after it consummated its takeover of McDonnell Douglas in August 1997.

Incorporating the failing Douglas Aircraft into Boeing's commercial-airplane division at a time when it was grappling with its own production problems drained an unexpected $3 billion from Boeing coffers.

That same year, Boeing posted a $178 million annual loss - its first in half a century.

And profit fell far short of expectations in 1998, when the company should have been piling up cash from a boom in jet orders.

Boeing's share price fell 33 percent last year, making it the Dow Jones industrial average's worst performer.

"Whether you like it or not, the problems happened under (Condit's) watch. I think his credibility is shot," said Byron Callan, aerospace analyst for Merrill Lynch. "He has apologized, but apologies are not enough. He has not yet unveiled the plan that clearly demonstrates that Boeing knows what it needs to do to get the show back on track."

Condit will face one of his greatest challenges this summer: Juggling the contract demands of Boeing's tough Machinists union with Wall Street demands for cutting more costs and outsourcing more union work. That could prove to be a no-win situation.

As Boeing prepares to enter contract talks with the Machinists this summer, some critics say the company's strategy in the last round of negotiations in 1995 contributed to the financial problems that later emerged.

Company leaders forced a strike with the Machinists when they needed those workers to handle a surge in airplane orders, said Peter Aseritis, an aerospace analyst for Credit Suisse First Boston.

In pricing its planes, Boeing executives misjudged the cost to build and deliver them, Aseritis said. And they misjudged rival Airbus Industrie's ability to compete in a market-share war.

"I've never run across a more concerted misjudgment by a management in the 17 years I covered aerospace companies," Aseritis said.

Speculation about Condit's job was even more rampant in December, after several other top Boeing executives were fired because of the company's financial problems. The board of directors left him in place, but opinion persists that Condit is on thin ice.

A Boeing spokeswoman denies Condit's job is on the line.

"That is not true. It is absolutely not true," said Boeing spokeswoman Judith Muhlberg. "Phil says he is not aware of any board displeasure."

Boeing board members, who meet in Los Angeles tonight, did not respond to requests for interviews.

Condit still has his supporters. One of his staunchest is a key customer, Herb Kelleher, the popular chairman of Southwest Airlines, which flies only Boeing 737s.

"He is a great analyst, a superb engineer, gives other people credit and tries to foster a real community at Boeing," Kelleher said. "He is truly, in my estimation, a very special human being."

And there are clear signs that Boeing is digging itself out of its deep financial hole.

Boeing investors and board members got some good news in the first three months of this year. Citing substantial improvements in its commercial-airplane division, Boeing said first-quarter profit was $469 million, or 50 cents a share, compared with $50 million, or 5 cents a share, in the same quarter a year ago. Sales jumped 11 percent, to $14.4 billion from $12.9 billion.

The company's commercial-airplane division has nearly eliminated costly factory bottlenecks and is building a record 620 jets this year. Nearly all of the airplanes will be delivered on time, officials say. But the profit margin on those planes still looks to be thin.

Boeing's new chief financial officer, Debby Hopkins, who joined the company late last year, has helped ease Wall Street fears with a serious and credible examination of the company's bloated cost structure. Her study called for selling or abandoning $1.3 billion worth of unprofitable programs.

Now Hopkins is working on a more rigorous financial plan that she will unveil next quarter. Investors also have praised her willingness to disclose more detailed financial information, which Boeing previously refused to share with investors.

In the past two quarters, earnings have reflected these improvements by outperforming modest expectations. For many investors, however, two strong quarters cannot erase the reality of Boeing's deeper troubles: continued high manufacturing costs, a bloated management structure, a divisive culture war and a downturn in global airplane orders.

Investors want to see a financial plan and a leader that gives them confidence that Boeing is in strong hands.

"They have to have the right management, the right cost structure and the right business plan to make money in the next airplane cycle," said Nick Heymann, an aerospace analyst for Prudential Securities.

Heymann said Boeing is focusing too much on cutting jobs and not enough on making the company more competitive for the next century.

"The rest of the fix is how to re-engineer and build the aircraft so it can snap together more quickly with less people, less tooling and more efficient locations," he said. "And that's the more substantive part of this process to get the corporation back in shape internally by the time the next (order) cycle starts up about 2003."

Condit is steering the company in the right direction, but he may have wasted too much time getting credible results, analysts say.

For the man groomed to be the seventh leader of the world's largest aerospace company, such talk must be especially painful.

Since joining Boeing in 1965 as an engineer on the Supersonic Transport program, it seemed Condit was destined for the top job.

"He's a silver spoon kind of guy," said one former Boeing executive. "He was always going to the top. If there were five people there were five opinions, but his opinion would always prevail. Everybody thought Phil walked on water, until recently."

Stanley Holmes' phone message number is 206-464-2732. His e-mail address is: sholmes@seattletimes.com

PHIL CONDIT| |PHOTO   

Document SETL000020090125dv4p01a9a




 FOCUS-Richfood loses big account, sees lower net. 

539 words
23 April 1999
14:45
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, April 23 (Reuters) - Richfood Holdings Inc., the biggest food wholesaler in the Mid-Atlantic states, lost a $600 million annual account and this will cut its earnings in fiscal year 2000 and beyond and increase its tax rate, the company said on Friday. 

 Richfood said its largest wholesale customer, Giant Food Stores Inc., will not renew the contract with Richfood next year. In a prepared statement, Richfood linked Giant's decision to the pending acquisition by Giant's Dutch parent company, Koninklijke Ahold N.V., of Pathmark Stores Inc. 

 The loss of the Giant Food account, which comes on the heels of a Richfood profit warning related in part to Year 2000 computer costs, will take a further bite out of profits, but not until its next fiscal year which ends in early May of 2000, the company said. 

 Richmond, Va.-based Richfood said the loss of the Giant account will cut earnings by 15 to 20 cents a share in fiscal year 2000 and by 28 to 33 cents a share in future years. The loss of the Giant contract will also increase Richfood's effective tax rate by about 1 percent, the company said. 

 In fiscal 1998 ended last May 2, the company earned $1.45 a share before charges on sales of $3.20 billion. And according to the latest data from market research firm First Call Corp, analysts' consensus estimate is for Richfood to earn $1.54 a share in the current fiscal year 1999 and $1.78 a share in fiscal 2000. 

 Richfood said it was informed only Thursday that Giant's preliminary decision in January to continue buying dry grocery goods from Richfood was reversed due to Ahold's pending acquisition of Pathmark. 

 "Obviously, we are very disappointed by Giant's decision," Richfood Chief Executive John Stokely said in the statement. "It took an acquisition the size of Pathmark and the related strategic implications to Royal Ahold to neutralise the cost advantage which Richfood had been able to create for Giant." 

 But Stokely also sought to downplay the lasting effects of the Giant loss, stressing that the company has contingency plans that will help create shareholder value. 

 "Although Giant's decision is a surprise, we had obviously considered this possibility and formulated contingency plans. As part of our contingency planning, we have developed certain strategic alternatives which we will be fully evaluating over the upcoming months." 

 "Two years ago, we began the process of repositioning Richfood to lessen its reliance on the Giant business while, at the same time, capitalising on our advantageous strategic position in the Mid-Atlantic to become a major consolidator of retail supermarkets. In March, 1998, we acquired Farm Fresh, and, in May, 1998, we acquired Shoppers Food Warehouse. In so doing," Stokely said, "I believe we have created the potential for exceptional value for our shareholders." 

 On Thursday, Richfield's shares closed at $16, unchanged on the day but off sharply from $20 on April 1 just ahead of the selloff that preceded its last profit warning. 

 ((New York newsroom, 212 859-1700, fax 212 859-1717, or nyc.equities.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4n02he0




 Richfood loses big account, sees profit, tax impact. 

369 words
23 April 1999
14:06
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, April 23 (Reuters) - Richfood Holdings Inc., the biggest food wholesaler in the mid-Atlantic states, lost a $600 million annual account and this will cut its earnings in fiscal year 2000 and beyond and increase its tax rate, the company said on Friday. 

 Richfood said its largest wholesale customer, Giant Food Stores Inc., will not renew the contract with Richfood next year. In a prepared statement, Richfood linked Giant's decision to the pending acquisition by Giant's Dutch parent company, Koninklijke Ahold N.V., of Pathmark Stores Inc. 

 The loss of the Giant Food account, which comes on the heels of a Richfood profit warning related in part to Year 2000 computer costs, will take a further bite out of profits, but not until its next fiscal year which ends in early May of 2000, the company said. 

 Richmond, Va.-based Richfood said the loss of the Giant account will cut earnings by 15 to 20 cents a share in fiscal year 2000 and by 28 to 33 cents a share in future years. The loss of the Giant contract will also increase Richfood's effective tax rate by about 1 percent, the company said. 

 In fiscal 1998 ended last May 2, the company earned $1.45 a share before charges on sales of $3.20 billion. And according to the latest data from market research firm First Call Corp, analysts' consensus estimate is for Richfood to earn $1.54 a share in the current fiscal year 1999 and $1.78 a share in fiscal 2000. 

 Richfood said it was informed only Thursday that Giant's preliminary decision in January to continue buying dry grocery goods from Richfood was reversed due to Ahold's pending acquisition of Pathmark Stores. 

 "Obviously, we are very disappointed by Giant's decision," Richfood Chief Executive John Stokely said in the statement. "It took an acquisition the size of Pathmark and the related strategic implications to Royal Ahold to neutralise the cost advantage which Richfood had been able to create for Giant." 

 ((New York newsroom, 212 859-1700, fax 212 859-1717, or nyc.equities.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4n0290e


 This bull has plenty of stamina. 

841 words
22 April 1999
Business and Finance
BUSFIN
English
(c) 1999 Business & Finance Magazine.

 Despite much nervousness over the past year the US equity market continues to soar ahead and 11,000 has now become an achievable target for the Dow Jones Index. 

 Report by Jim Power 

 At this stage I have lost count of the number of articles I have read and written cautioning about the US equity market. Indeed one of the most common forecasts amongst economists and financial market commentators over the past few years has been of an imminent slowdown in the US economy and a sharp equity market correction. A brief perusal of the speeches of various officials of the Federal Reserve since Alan Greenspan's now infamous reference to 'irrational exuberance' in December 1996, shows that the US monetary policy makers have believed the same story. 

 In the event we have all been wrong. The US economy continues to go from strength to strength and the Dow Jones has broken through the psychologically important 10,000 level in recent weeks. It is now pushing hard towards 11,000 and it would take a brave individual to rule out a breach of that level at some stage this year. 

 Since January, the Dow Jones has increased by an incredible 13.6%. This advance has occurred despite growing concerns about future corporate earnings. At the moment, investors appear to be totally oblivious to the pressure on earnings and instead are focused firmly on Alan Greenspan's 'new paradigm'. This term describes the phenomenon whereby the US economy is able to accommodate very buoyant economic growth and well-behaved inflation. 

 For example, at the beginning of last week there was a widely held belief that the market could suffer a sharp reversal following Compaq's profit warning the previous Friday. Instead equity prices forged ahead as investors remained focused on the benign economic background. 

 There is of course a huge question mark over Internet stocks, given their high p/e ratios and the fact that they are all 'p' and very little 'e'. Warren Buffet, the globally acclaimed investor, warned only last week about technology stocks and he assured us that he would not be investing in them. Such a strategy would not have been very profitable over the past couple of years, but if he waits long enough he will be right eventually. 

 The economic news coming out of the US continues to be extremely strong. Figures released last week showed that retail sales grew at an annualised rate of 14.9% in the first quarter of the year. Recent manufacturing surveys from the National Association of Purchasing Managers and the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia indicate that manufacturing activity also expanded quite strongly in that period. It now appears that economic growth in the first three months of the year will exceed 4%. The unemployment rate has fallen to 4.2% of the labour force, which compares with 10.6% in Euroland, yet wage growth remains remarkably well behaved and inflation is just not an issue right now. 

 Economic theory would seriously question the ability of a mature and developed economy like the US to sustain such high growth and such low unemployment without generating considerable wage and price pressures. Alan Greenspan has consistently referred to the positive impact on worker productivity of technological advances, but there are other issues at play. The US is now running a large balance of payments deficit as vibrant domestic demand sucks in imports, while export markets are relatively sluggish. In an international environment where disinflation is a key theme, the US is in effect importing low wage costs in the shape of cheap imports from overseas and this is allowing the economy build on the new paradigm. Notwithstanding the recent up tick in oil prices, this process still has some way to run. 

 Some analysts are now arguing that the Federal Reserve was wrong to cut interest rates by 0.25% on the third occasion late last year, and indeed some Federal Reserve officials would appear to share that view. This is not a correct viewpoint. That 0.25 cut was not of sufficient magnitude to threaten US inflation going forward, but it was large enough to help end the global uncertainties that still prevailed at that stage. There is a chance that the Fed will reverse that cut over the coming months, but that should not damage what is still a bright economic outlook. 

 The biggest threat to the well being of the US economy would be a sharp and sustained equity market correction. That appears unlikely for the moment and the Dow Jones looks eminently capable of testing the 11,000 level over the coming months. 

 Given that the US economy is still the engine of global economic growth, it is to be hoped that this prognosis is correct, as the world economy is still too fragile to withstand a sharp slowdown on the other side of the Atlantic. 

 Jim Power is Chief Economist at Bank Of Ireland Treasury. 

 (c) 1999, Business & Finance Magazine. 

Document busfin0020010901dv4m000v6




 Investment - US bulls lead the charge as market enters new cycle. 

 By Peter Kermode. 
973 words
22 April 1999
Money Marketing
MNYM
28
English
(c) 1999 Centaur Communications Limited or its licensors.

 With the US market now a tax-free alternative for UK investors through Isas, IFAs will be increasingly focusing their minds across the pond as the Dow continues its bull run. 

 Isa rules mean US funds which were not Pepable can be fully included within a tax-free wrapper. 

 IFAs may now look to the world's biggest market for more than just an indication of what is likely to happen in the UK. 

 For at least three years,the bears and pessimists have been waiting for the US market to falter. 

 Last August, it looked like their fears were coming true but the market bounced back to finish another calendar year with double-figure growth. 

 Last Wednesday, the Dow Jones climbed to more than 10,500 points for the first time as positive earnings' results began to trickle through. 

 Normally, when the Dow approaches or reaches a milestone, which has happened frequently in recent months, the bears come out of their hiding places and start talking about the US trade deficit and over-inflated share prices. 

 But now, for the first time in quite a while, it seems the US bulls outnumber the US bears - and the market just continues to run. 

 Last week's profit warning from Compaq Computer may have dented some of the enthusiasm of the technology sec-tor but it has not managed to stem the momentum of the US market. 

 Gartmore head of US equities Robert Siddles says the dynamics of the US market are changing as the consensus on interest rates switches to neutral after fears earlier in the year that rates were set to increase. 

 Siddles says that, even in the weeks leading up to the current profit reporting season, when companies traditionally try to dampen analysts' expectations, the mood was unusually positive. 

 Nonetheless, investors are beginning to move away from the technology and internet stocks. 

 Siddles says: "Everybody has been playing the same theme in the last few months and people who have not had internet stocks have been panicked into them. 

 "But it looks like there is a bit of a sea change, with people switching out of technology and into cyclical consumer goods. You can be more optimistic looking towards 2000. It could be the first year for a while where no major region in the world is in recession." 

 Perpetual head of US equities Ian Brady says, with fears of a global recession becoming less by the day, the US market appears well positioned. 

 He says: "I think the market looks set for further advances, particularly in some of the major indices, as people finally stop worrying about financial Armageddon. For the last three years, there has always been something to worry about." 

 The second half of last year was very volatile for the US market, with falls of around 20 per cent in August and September being followed by a bounce of more than 20 per cent in November. 

 The collapse in South American markets, the Russian debt default, the near failure of the Long Term Capital Management hedge fund and President Clinton's impeachment were all weighing on the market. 

 Since then, the global economy appears to have stabilised - Perpetual and other investment houses are even becoming bullish on Japan - and money continues to flow into the US mutual funds. 

 But Brady says the performance of the US market is limited to a select group of stocks. 

 He says: "About 80 per cent of all US stocks are down over the last year. It is just the large caps which are doing it for the market." 

 Brady is concentrating his portfolio in some of the industrial stocks and also favours economically sensitive cyclicals, which he believes will 

 benefit from the stabilising global economy. 

 He is underweight in the technology and internet sectors - areas which have helped fuel the US market's tremendous drive - because he believes the speculation in those stocks has run too far. 

 Those thoughts are mirrored by James Abate, the manager of the Credit Suisse Transatlantic fund, although he is a bit more cautious about the market's short-and medium-term future. 

 He says: "We continue to focus on stocks and sectors that should provide lower volatility in any type of market correction, yet still participate - not fully we recognise - if 

 the market continues moving higher. 

 "These stocks include integrated oils, pharmaceuticals and consumer staples. We have remained underweight in the high-volatility sectors of technology and finance. 

 "In addition, evidence continues to mount that emerging market economies, principally Asia, have bottomed. Thus globally traded commodities such as oil, metals, paper and forest products and agricultural products should start to see higher pricing and unit gains." 

 But even though it has been much maligned, the technology sector, which helped boost the Dow to its record-breaking run and is always the first area subjected to the bears' criticisms, continues to attract interest from some fund managers. 

 The Fidelity American fund is heavily skewed towards technology stocks. Last week, Framlington launched a fund focusing specifically on internet stocks and stocks which look set to benefit from e-commerce and internet activity. 

 The fund will be managed by Paul Cook, a senior portfolio manager at Munder Capital Management. 

 He says: "We are not limited to the internet hot stocks that make so many headlines - our remit is any company that has embraced the internet and understood its strategic implications. 

 "It took 38 years for 50 million people to become radio users, 13 years for the same number to become television users and 16 years for personal computers. 

 "The internet had 50 million users within four years and traffic on the internet doubles every 100 days." 

 Copyright 1999 Centaur Communications Limited or its licensors. 

Document mnym000020010907dv4m00375




 Ryder Says Earnings Declined 41%, Weighs Sale of Some Assets 

287 words
22 April 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
B4
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 MIAMI -- Ryder System Inc. posted a 41% decline in first-quarter profit. The company, struggling to restore its credibility on Wall Street, also said it may sell some assets to improve profitability. 

 The truck-leasing and logistical-services concern said earnings for all of 1999 would be "toward the top end" of the forecast range, despite a weak first quarter. For the first quarter, Ryder posted net income of $22.1 million, or 31 cents a diluted share, down from $37.3 million, or 50 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue increased 6% to $1.32 billion from $1.25 billion. 

 Analysts, who slashed their forecasts in response to a profit warning from the company earlier this month, were expecting earnings of about 34 cents a share, according to First Call. 

 In New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Ryder rose 62.5 cents to $27. 

 In a conference call with analysts, M. Anthony Burns, chairman and chief executive, said Ryder is considering asset sales, partly to provide more money for a stock-buyback plan. He didn't identify any candidates for sale. In a later interview, he said Ryder doesn't plan to shed any of its three divisions but might sell portions of them. The company has been discussing alternatives with investment bankers, Mr. Burns added. 

 For 1999, he said per-share earnings should be in "the top portion" of forecasts, which he said ranged from $2.06 to $2.40, compared with $2.16 a year earlier. He blamed the weak first quarter on losses overseas, particularly in Britain and Brazil, high year-2000 costs and a drop in profit at its logistics unit. 

Document j000000020010828dv4m00b4e




 Compaq Met Analysts' Reduced Targets, Calls Results `Unacceptable' 

597 words
21 April 1999
13:01
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Compaq Computer Corp., calling its results "disappointing and unacceptable," Wednesday reported first-quarter profit that was in line with drastically reduced expectations for the world's largest personal-computer maker. 

 Compaq enjoyed a 66% revenue surge, helped by the acquisition of Digital Equipment Corp., but said product sales didn't meet ambitious internal goals because of slower-than-expected PC demand and competitive pricing. 

 Houston-based Compaq (CPQ), which just days ago ousted Chief Executive Officer Eckhard Pfeiffer because of its financial performance, said it earned $281 million, or 16 cents a diluted share, compared with year-ago net income of $16 million, or one cent a diluted share. 

 The mean estimate of 29 analysts surveyed by First Call was for earnings of 15 cents a share. That was reduced from earlier expectations of 31 cents a share after the company shocked Wall Street with a profitwarning nearly two weeks ago. 

 Revenue soared to $9.42 billion from $5.69 billion. The latest quarter included revenue from Digital Equipment, which Compaq acquired for $9 billion in 1998. 

 Compaq said its product sales for the quarter were $7.8 billion, up about 40% from the year-ago level, and said it continues to maintain world-wide "channel inventories" just under four weeks. 

 Service sales for the quarter were $1.6 billion, and the company said total services business performance met its expectations. Gross margin for the quarter was 24.7% compared with 18% in the year-ago period and 26.4% in the fourth quarter of 1998. It blamed the decline from the fourth quarter on "lower-than-expected margin performance in both the commercial PC and enterprise businesses, driven by the product revenue shortfall, more intense price competition than expected, and a less favorable mix of higher margin products and options." 

 Compaq is facing one of the toughest challenges since its founding 17 years ago. Many watchers say Compaq hasn't kept pace with rivals such as Dell Computer Corp. (DELL) and must alter its distribution model while transforming itself into a full-service company, selling packages of computers, software and services. 

 Some analysts believe the first-quarter profit shortfall could have been avoided had the company successfully implemented a build-to-order manufacturing plan sketched out nearly two years ago and a sales-force integration following the June 1998 acquisition of Digital. 

 Aside from Pfeiffer's ouster, Compaq over the weekend announced that Chief Financial Officer Earl Mason resigned. Chairman Benjamin Rosen since has taken over the top management of Compaq along with a team of other executives, and is leading the search for a new CEO. 

 Rosen told analysts Wednesday that he can't offer Wall Street much guidance on what to expect in future quarters, said Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. analyst William Milton. The company, however, said it will take a pretax goodwill amortization charge of $71 million a quarter - which will translate into four cents a share - going forward to account for several recent acquisitions, including the purchase of Shopping.com. The company didn't indicate how many quarters that will last. 

 As result, Milton cut his full-year 1999 earnings estimate on Compaq to $1.05 a share from $1.20. The analyst expects the company to post revenue of about $41.16 billion for the full year. Compaq reported a loss of $1.71 a share, including charges, on revenue of $31.17 billion for 1998. 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020329dv4l029rv


 California-Based Drug Maker Reports Measures Improving Quality Control 

 Leslie Berkman 
918 words
21 April 1999
KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Press-Enterprise - Riverside, California
KRTBN
English
Copyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)

 CORONA, Calif.--Watson Pharmaceuticals, whose stock has plummeted 33 percent since hitting a high at the close of 1998, is trying to tackle one of the concerns that market analysts blame for the tumble: a warning letter from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration about quality control. 

 The Corona-based drug manufacturer last week said in a news release that it is implementing a plan that it believes "fully addresses" violations that the FDA cited in a Jan. 11 warning letter and a subsequent inspection. 

 In the letter, the FDA said it had documented "serious deviations from its manufacturing regulations." Among them: Watson failed to assure product uniformity by establishing and following written procedures or to adequately investigate product failures and deviations. 

 In one case, the FDA said, foreign material found in a drum of a granulated ingredient was "simply removed from the top" and "the remaining granulation was made into tablets." The FDA complained that "The particles were not identified and a thorough investigation was not conducted to determine the possible source and extent of the contamination." 

 The FDA also cited problems with maintaining laboratory records and "failure to establish sufficient laboratory controls" to assure "appropriate standards of identity, strength, quality and purity" of its products. 

 The agency said it was concerned that the deficiencies were similar to manufacturing problems the FDA warned Watson about a year earlier. In the January letter, the FDA said failure to make corrections might result in regulatory action, which could involve obtaining a court order to shut down manufacturing or seize products. 

 Watson said in its statement that it is implementing an improvement plan at its Corona facility that "specifically responds to items noted by the FDA concerning ... compliance in areas such as documentation, training and laboratory controls." 

 Watson said it had prepared the plan based on discussions with the FDA and in consultation with the company's outside consultants and legal counsel. 

 "The company has already adopted improvements to its procedures and anticipates that additional plan improvements will be substantially completed within the next few months," the statement said. 

 The company also said the FDA has not halted production and it doesn't anticipate any manufacturing interruptions while the plan is being implemented, and that the cost of compliance will not be burdensome. 

 Brad Stone, an FDA spokesman, said he was "not in a position to comment at this time" about the status of Watson's regulatory compliance. `We usually don't comment in the midst of ongoing discussions," Stone said. 

 Michael Boxer, Watson's chief financial officer, declined to elaborate on the company's statement or to comment on why Watson waited several months to issue a press release about the FDA warning letter. 

 Several market analysts suggested that the company was trying to reassure investors because it was concerned that street talk about the FDA's warning letter depressed the company's stock price. 

 Watson's stock dropped on the New York Stock Exchange from a high of $63 on Dec. 31 to $41 at the end of trading Tuesday. 

 Daniel Seto, a pharmaceutical analyst with Warburg Dillon Read, said he believes that investors who have taken "short" positions --meaning they will profit if Watson's stock valuation falls -- "have blown (the seriousness of the FDA warning) out of proportion. They talk to people and try to convince them to sell the stock." 

 Elliot Wilbur, a pharmaceutical analyst with CIBC Oppenheimer, agreed that Watson's stock price decline probably prompted Watson's public statement. "I think the company felt it had to step it up on the communications front," he said. 

 Wilbur said some investors also have "concerns over the firm's ability to continue its track record of consecutive quarterly revenue and earnings per share increases." In Watson's earnings report for the fourth quarter of 1998, the company's sales, which were barely higher than the previous quarter, disappointed some investors accustomed to dramatic gains. 

 And while Watson's stock got a boost earlier this month when it was added to the Standard & Poor's 500 index, it took a battering with other pharmaceutical companies in Monday's market downturn. 

 Wilbur and Seto said they still have confidence in Watson. "I think the current valuation more than adequately compensates for any of the risks that we foresee and I don't believe the risk profile for Watson shares is any higher than six months ago when the value of the stock was 50 percent higher," Wilbur said. 

 Wilbur said he believes Watson's upcoming earnings report for the first quarter of 1999 "will greatly alleviate investors concerns." He said he expects that "FDA issues will slowly fade into the horizon ... and over the next several months investors will again begin to focus on the long-term execution of the company's business model." 

 However, Wilbur said he is uncertain whether Watson will easily address the FDA's concerns. He said two of the drugs mentioned in the FDA warning -- Dilicor, a drug to treat hypertension, and Hydrocodone, a pain killer -- are financially important to the company. 

 Wilbur said the best way to gage the FDA's opinion of Watson's new manufacturing controls "is to watch for new approval roll-outs. If (Watson) continues to receive approval of its pending generic drug applications, then it is a clear signal that the FDA does not have serious concerns about the company's regulatory position." 

Document krtbn00020010828dv4l00p15


BUSINESS
Watson reports measures improving quality control Critical FDA letter has hurt stock price

Leslie Berkman; The Press-Enterprise   
926 words
21 April 1999
Riverside Press-Enterprise
RVSD
RIVERSIDE; ALL ZONES
D01
English
Copyright 1999 The Press-Enterprise. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank, Inc.   

CORONA

Watson Pharmaceuticals, whose stock has plummeted 33 percent since hitting a high at the close of 1998, is trying to tackle one of the concerns that market analysts blame for the tumble: a warning letter from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration about quality control.

The Corona-based drug manufacturer last week said in a news release that it is implementing a plan that it believes "fully addresses" violations that the FDA cited in a Jan. 11 warning letter and a subsequent inspection.

In the letter, the FDA said it had documented "serious deviations from its manufacturing regulations." Among them: Watson failed to assure product uniformity by establishing and following written procedures or to adequately investigate product failures and deviations.

In one case, the FDA said, foreign material found in a drum of a granulated ingredient was "simply removed from the top" and "the remaining granulation was made into tablets." The FDA complained that "The particles were not identified and a thorough investigation was not conducted to determine the possible source and extent of the contamination."

The FDA also cited problems with maintaining laboratory records and "failure to establish sufficient laboratory controls" to assure "appropriate standards of identity, strength, quality and purity" of its products.

The agency said it was concerned that the deficiencies were similar to manufacturing problems the FDA warned Watson about a year earlier. In the January letter, the FDA said failure to make corrections might result in regulatory action, which could involve obtaining a court order to shut down manufacturing or seize products.

Watson said in its statement that it is implementing an improvement plan at its Corona facility that "specifically responds to items noted by the FDA concerning . . . compliance in areas such as documentation, training and laboratory controls."

Watson said it had prepared the plan based on discussions with the FDA and in consultation with the company's outside consultants and legal counsel.

"The company has already adopted improvements to its procedures and anticipates that additional plan improvements will be substantially completed within the next few months," the statement said.

The company also said the FDA has not halted production and it doesn't anticipate any manufacturing interruptions while the plan is being implemented, and that the cost of compliance will not be burdensome.

Brad Stone, an FDA spokesman, said he was "not in a position to comment at this time" about the status of Watson's regulatory compliance. `We usually don't comment in the midst of ongoing discussions," Stone said.

Michael Boxer, Watson's chief financial officer, declined to elaborate on the company's statement or to comment on why Watson waited several months to issue a press release about the FDA warning letter.

Several market analysts suggested that the company was trying to reassure investors because it was concerned that street talk about the FDA's warning letter depressed the company's stock price.

Watson's stock dropped on the New York Stock Exchange from a high of $63 on Dec. 31 to $415/8 at the end of trading Tuesday.

Daniel Seto, a pharmaceutical analyst with Warburg Dillon Read, said he believes that investors who have taken "short" positions - meaning they will profit if Watson's stock valuation falls - "have blown (the seriousness of the FDA warning) out of proportion. They talk to people and try to convince them to sell the stock."

Elliot Wilbur, a pharmaceutical analyst with CIBC Oppenheimer, agreed that Watson's stock price decline probably prompted Watson's public statement. "I think the company felt it had to step it up on the communications front," he said.

Wilbur said some investors also have "concerns over the firm's ability to continue its track record of consecutive quarterly revenue and earnings per share increases." In Watson's earnings report for the fourth quarter of 1998, the company's sales, which were barely higher than the previous quarter, disappointed some investors accustomed to dramatic gains.

And while Watson's stock got a boost earlier this month when it was added to the Standard & Poor's 500 index, it took a battering with other pharmaceutical companies in Monday's market downturn.

Wilbur and Seto said they still have confidence in Watson. "I think the current valuation more than adequately compensates for any of the risks that we foresee and I don't believe the risk profile for Watson shares is any higher than six months ago when the value of the stock was 50 percent higher," Wilbur said.

Wilbur said he believes Watson's upcoming earnings report for the first quarter of 1999 "will greatly alleviate investors concerns." He said he expects that "FDA issues will slowly fade into the horizon . . . and over the next several months investors will again begin to focus on the long-term execution of the company's business model."

However, Wilbur said he is uncertain whether Watson will easily address the FDA's concerns.He said two of the drugs mentioned in the FDA warning - Dilicor, a drug to treat hypertension, and Hydrocodone, a pain killer - are financially important to the company.

Wilbur said the best way to gage the FDA's opinion of Watson's new manufacturing controls "is to watch for new approval roll-outs. If (Watson) continues to receive approval of its pending generic drug applications, then it is a clear signal that the FDA does not have serious concerns about the company's regulatory position."

Document RVSD000020101022dv4l02wri




 Investors Continue To Slam Network Associates As Future Looks Grim 

554 words
20 April 1999
16:54
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Software maker Network Associates Inc. saw more of its market value vanish Tuesday as some brokerage firms again lowered their ratings in the wake of a weak earnings report and another profit warning. 

 Shares of Network Associates (NETA) tumbled $4.188, or 27%, to end at $11.063. Volume of 32.2 million made it one of the most active issues on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The daily average is around 5.6 million shares. The stock is down nearly 85% from its 52-week high of $67.688, set Dec. 28. 

 Jeffries & Co. and Brown Brothers Harriman & Co., which were among the brokerage houses that issued bearish guidance earlier this month, again cut their ratings on Network Associates. 

 After U.S. markets closed Monday, Network Associates announced a 20% drop in first-quarter net income and warned of lower revenue in the current period. The Santa Clara, Calif.-based software maker already warned of disappointing results two weeks ago. 

 Citing an anticipated decline in demand for its software, Network Associates "will not take significant channel orders" in the second quarter, Chairman and Chief Executive Bill Larson said, referring to the network of distributors and resellers. That will result in "very low" second-quarter revenue, Larson said. Network Associates sells about 60% of its software through distributors and resellers, Larson said. 

 Network Associates posted first-quarter net income of $26.2 million, or 18 cents a diluted share, compared with $32.7 million, or 24 cents a share, a year earlier. The latest figures include adjustments to change accounting for past acquisitions. Excluding the adjustments, profit was $45.6 million, or 30 cents a share, in line with the company's April 6 prediction. 

 Revenue increased 8.4% to $245.2 million. 

 Because accounting regulators have cracked down on the use of acquisition-related charges, many companies have been forced to record as intangible assets certain amounts that were previously written off in one lump charge. Intangible assets are amortized over their useful life as an ordinary expense. Although amortization costs are routine business expenses, many firms report what their results would have been without such expenses. 

 The accounting change has been particularly hard on Network Associates because it has acquired several companies in the past few years. Network Associates, formed by the $1.3 billion merger of McAfee Associates Inc. and Network General Corp. in 1997, makes antivirus, network-management, help-desk and security software. It soon went on a shopping spree and some analysts think the primary rationale behind the McAfee-Network merger was to create a vehicle for consolidating very fragmented segments of the software industry. 

 Larson said several factors may be affecting the firm. Network Associates' troubles could indicate a fundamental slowdown in corporate demand, they could mean companies are temporarily shifting their purchasing priorities due to the year 2000 problem, or they signal a permanent change in those priorities, Larson said. Customers are taking longer to make decisions on purchases, and purchase sizes are getting larger, Larson said. "I view this as an across the board, across the world phenomenon. It's likely to get worse before it gets better," Larson said. 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020329dv4k02c8y




BUSINESS
CEO, CFO OUT AT COMPAQ AFTER  PROFIT WARNING 

MOLLY WILLIAMS   
BLOOMBERG NEWS
336 words
19 April 1999
The Seattle Times
SETL
FINAL
D3
English
Copyright 1999, The Seattle Times Company  All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

HOUSTON - Compaq Computer Chief Executive Eckhard Pfeiffer was ousted by co-founder and Chairman Benjamin Rosen, who assumes control of the No. 1 personal-computer maker nine days after a profit warning sent shares skidding.

Chief Financial Officer Earl Mason, 51, also resigned. Rosen and Vice Chairmen Frank Doyle and Robert Enloe will run the CEO's office until a replacement is found, and Treasurer Ben Wells will be acting CFO, Compaq said in a release posted on its Web site.

Compaq shares fell 88 cents to $22.75 in late trading today of 36 million shares, making it the second-most active U.S. stock. The stock rose as much as 4.2 percent earlier in the session. The Houston-based company's shares tumbled 24 percent in the past week, and have lost more than half their value since reaching a record high Jan. 27.

Pfeiffer, 57, was fired after a series of missteps, including the first-quarter-profit shortfall, failure to articulate a plan for besting rival Dell Computer and concerns that Compaq didn't provide enough warning about its financial plight.

The board's action comes just in time for Compaq's annual shareholder meeting Thursday.

Rosen said he met with Pfeiffer yesterday and told him the board believed he should resign. Mason resigned voluntarily, Rosen said.

The company said April 9 that its first-quarter profit will be about half expectations. No other PC-related company has warned of so drastic a shortfall.

Compaq has struggled to come up with a strategy for selling computers directly to its customers, as No. 1 direct seller Dell does, crippling it with higher costs.

Pfeiffer helped make Compaq the top PC seller, usurping IBM in 1994. During his tenure, annual sales rose to $31.2 billion last year from $3.27 billion in 1991, achieving his goal of making Compaq one of the three biggest computer companies in the world.

Document SETL000020090125dv4j019i8




 Business/Financial Desk; Section C 
 Earnings Slip at Caterpillar, But Drop Is Below Forecast 

Bloomberg News
472 words
17 April 1999
The New York Times
NYTF
Page 4, Column 1
English
(c) 1999 New York Times Company

 PEORIA, Ill., April 16 -- Caterpillar Inc., which had sounded an earnings warning last month, posted a decline in quarterly profit today that was smaller than analysts' latest forecasts. 

 Citing lower prices, higher costs and slower machinery sales, the big manufacturer of construction equipment said earnings fell 52 percent in the first quarter, to $205 million, or 57 cents a share, from $430 million, or $1.15 a share, a year earlier. The per-share figure was higher than the 42 cents that analysts had expected since Caterpillar had warned on March 12 that earnings in the quarter would fall as much as 50 percent. 

 The better-than-expected result came at the expense of the current quarter, however. Caterpillar said today that some shipments scheduled for the second quarter had been pushed into March. 

 Because of the accelerated shipments, the company is lowering its sales projections for the second quarter. But full-year results will not be affected, it added. 

 Shares of Caterpillar, which have climbed nearly 31 percent this week amid a rally by shares of industrial companies, rose $2, to $63.8125. 

 The company has been vulnerable to economic weakness overseas. Machinery and engine sales in Latin America slumped 37 percent in the first quarter as Brazil's recession cut into demand. But sales rose 12 percent in Asia and 3.9 percent in North America. 

 Still, Caterpillar was hurt by higher manufacturing costs and lower prices for its products. 

 ''They're getting hit by price on both the machine and engine segments,'' said Tobias Levkovich, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney Inc. who has a buy rating on the company's stock. ''Caterpillar was losing some market share last year and cut prices to try to win some back. They realized it wasn't a brilliant idea.'' 

 Reversing that course, Caterpillar raised prices April 1, he said. 

 Revenue in the first quarter rose 1.7 percent, to $4.87 billion from $4.79 billion. The market in the United States accounted for 43 percent of equipment sales, down from 47 percent a year ago. 

 Following the earnings warning last month, analysts sharply lowered their forecasts for full-year earnings. Their average per-share estimate fell to $3.21 from $3.60. 

 Caterpillar's chairman and chief executive, Glen Barton, insisted last month that earnings would still be around $3.60 for the year. But the analysts remain unconvinced. 

 ''Our estimate is below theirs,'' said Salomon Smith Barney's Mr. Levkovich, who expects a per-share profit of $3.30. ''The Street is skeptical. The company is going to have to prove it.'' 

 In its March warning, Caterpillar said it would temporarily idle certain plants and cut jobs, spending and inventory to lower costs. 

Document nytf000020010828dv4h00l6e




 Caterpillar Reports Lower 1Q Net Amid Latin America Woes 

 By Christopher C. Williams 
331 words
16 April 1999
17:59
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--After reporting first-quarter earnings significantly below the year-ago's, Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) said it would cut its work-force and production schedules in an effort to regain its footing amid weak Latin American markets and low commodity prices. 

 The Peoria, Ill., company said these efforts should lift second-half results above the first half's. 

 Caterpillar's NYSE-listed shares recently were up 1 15/16, or 3.1%, at 63 3/4 on volume of nearly 4 million shares, compared with average daily volume of about 1.8 million. 

 Caterpillar's first-quarter report reflects the earnings warning the company had issued last month, which sent First Call's consensus estimate for the period tumbling to 42 cents a share. The company said the first-quarter sales and profit were better than it had forecast on March 12. 

 With 57 cents a share for the first quarter, Caterpillar easily cleared the lowered bar, but earnings for the period fell significantly below the year-ago's $1.15. 

 In its earnings report Friday, Caterpillar cited unfavorable product sales mix and lower price realization and other factors for the lower profit. Caterpillar reported a 4% drop in machinery sales in the quarter. Widespread recession caused a drop in sales and deliveries to Latin America. 

 The company said, however, that sales for the period of $4.87 billion were a record for the first quarter and were 2% above the 1998 level. Revenues from financial products increased 22%. 


The company continues to see 1999 sales and profit falling below 1998
levels but still looks for "solid financial results" for the remainder
of the year on cost-reduction efforts, price realization, higher sales
in Asia and continued strong demand in the U.S.
   - Christopher C. Williams, 201-938-5219;
   christopher.williams@cor.dowjones.com



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  04-16-99



12:59 PM


Document dj00000020010826dv4g02fte


 News 
 Storagetek issues  profit warning  and begins staff cuts 

 Linda Leung in Silicon Valley 
261 words
16 April 1999
Newswire (VNU)
VNUN
English
Copyright (c) 1999 VNU Business Publications Ltd.; Source: World Reporter (TM)

 Storagetek issued a profit warning on Thursday and said it would begin to cut its workforce by 500 staff. The storage company said it expects total revenueand net earnings to fall way below the $0.39 to $0.46 earnings per share range expected by analysts polled by First Call. It does not expect net earnings to bemore than between $0.05 and $o.10 a share. The company blamed the "slower than expected acceptance" of its Virtual Storage Manager (VSM) storage software technology as well manufacturing problems related to the 9840 tape drive. David Weiss, chairman, president and chief executive, said: "We must address both short term tactical issues and longer term strategic expense issues. The tacticalproblems are represented in the revenue and margin shortfalls from the 9840 tape drive and VSM system. 

  I believe the revenues from these programmes will improve throughout the year." Weiss said he wants to shed more than 250 employees from the company's staffing levels by the end of the second quarter under a voluntary programme. This is part of a wider scheme to cut the workforce by 500 which will save the company $40 million a year. The job cuts will cost the company between $20 million and $25 million in charges during its fiscal second quarter. Despite this, Weiss expects the first quarter revenue growth will be slightly higher than the five per cent growth in 1998. To comment on this story, email newswire@vnu.co.uk 

Document vnun000020010830dv4g002qe




 Storage Technology Shares Slump On 1st-Quarter  Profit Warning 

578 words
15 April 1999
16:11
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 LOUISVILLE, Ky. -(Dow Jones)- Storage Technology Corp., issuing its second profit warning in as many quarters, said Thursday that first-quarter earnings would come in well below analysts' expectations, sending its shares into a tailspin. The maker of data storage and retrieval systems also said it plans to trim about 6% of its work force. 

 Shares of Storage Technology (STK) fell $7.063, or 27%, to $19 on volume of 5.4 million shares. 

 Storage Technology warned it expects first-quarter earnings of five to 10 cents a share, well below analysts' estimates for earnings between 39 cents and 46 cents a share, the company said. 

 The mean estimate of seven analysts surveyed by First Call predicted the company would earn around 42 cents a share. 

 For the first quarter ended March 27, 1998, Storage Technology earned $40.6 million, or 74 cents a diluted share, on revenue of $484.9 million. 

 The company also issued a profit warning in January ahead of its fourth-quarter profit report, when the company earned $52.6 million, or 52 cents a share, compared with $83.7 million, or 73 cents a share in the fourth-quarter of 1997. 

 Storage Technology said it expects revenue growth for the first quarter ended March 26 to be slightly higher than last year's 5% growth rate. 

 Problems with two separate product lines led to the shortfall, Storage Technology spokesman David Reid said. The company couldn't make enough of its 9840 tape drives, he said, and customers haven't accepted its virtual storage manager products as quickly as management had hoped. 

 "These are both high-margin products, so a shortfall in sales can have a large effect," he said. He said the company will report earnings April 29. 

 In addition to revenue and margin weakness, Storage Technology said operating expenses increased significantly. 

 The company said it will cut about 500 jobs from its work force of about 8,700 through a "voluntary separation program" and attrition. More than half of the cuts are expected to take place by the end of the second quarter. The company said the program will result in annual savings of $40 million. 

 In addition, Storage Technology said it will take a charge of $20 to $25 million, excluding asset and other related charges, in the second quarter. 

 Laura Conigliaro, an analyst at Goldman Sachs, said Storage Technology has "a myriad of challenges to maneuver through." She said the first-quarter product transition problems should bleed into the current period. 

 Conigliaro said the company also faces a challenge as it tries to sell its disk subsystems on its own, rather than using International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) as an exclusive distributor. Conigliaro estimates Storage Technology sold $500 million in disk products through IBM in 1998. 

 The company is building its own sales force to sell the disk systems, which is a long process, she noted. 

 "At this point, there are too many moving parts" at Storage Technology, she said. 

 Other computer storage companies suffered after Nationbank Montgomery Securities cut its investment opinion on the sector. In a research note, analyst Paul Fox wrote that there is a potential purchasing freeze ahead for the computer storage industry because of the year 2000 problem. He downgraded EMC Corp. (EMC), Seagate Technology Inc. (SEG), Maxtor Corp. (MXTR) and Hutchinson Technolgoy Inc. (HTCH). 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020329dv4f02b53


 Intel Reports Earnings Increase 

 Eric Young 
550 words
14 April 1999
KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: The Sacramento Bee - California
KRTBN
English
Copyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)

 Microprocessor giant Intel Corp. reported earnings of more than $2 billion for the latest quarter, a 57 percent increase over the year-ago period and a sign of strength to a high-tech industry roiled by news that a leading computer maker is headed toward a financial shortfall. 

 Intel earnings of 57 cents a diluted share slightly beat analysts' expectations for the first quarter that ended in March. Earnings per share were adjusted to reflect a two-for-one stock split paid this month. 

 Revenue was $7.1 billion, up from $6 billion for the same quarter in 1998. 

 "We are pleased with our substantial year-over-year growth in profitability resulting from our cost-control efforts," said Craig Barrett, Intel president and chief executive officer. He was referring to the company's efforts to cut manufacturing costs of its signature Pentium II and Pentium III processors, the "brains" inside computers. 

 Barrett said sales have been brisk for the Pentium III chips, which are the focus of a major marketing push by the Santa Clara-based company. Intel employs about 5,000 people on its Folsom campus, which focuses on research and development, sales and information technology. 

 "We are seeing positive results from the launch of new products across all segments, including the introductions of the Pentium III and Pentium III Xeon processors and higher speed Intel Celeron and mobile Pentium II processors," Barrett said. 

 The earnings announcement from Intel, an industry bellwether because of its dominance in the microprocessor industry, came shortly after a profit warning from Compaq Computer Corp. that sent shudders through the high-tech world. The major Houston-based PC maker warned of slowing sales, leading to some speculation that other technology leaders might experience the same troubles. 

 But many analysts interpreted Intel's numbers as a sign that Compaq's difficulties might not reach beyond its business. 

 "Clearly, contrary to what Compaq indicated, the PC industry is healthy," said Ashok Kumar, a semiconductor and computer analyst with Piper Jaffray. 

 Nevertheless, some analysts insisted that 1999 may see some sales slowdown in many high-tech sectors, semiconductors included. 

 "When Compaq is having issues, they are one of the largest suppliers (of computers), you can't stick your head in the sand and say, `It's only Compaq,'" said analyst Ken Pearlman of CIBC Oppenheimer, who has a "hold" rating on Intel's stock. 

 Intel's results were released after the close of stock markets. Intel stock dropped 75 cents a share to $60.50 on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Intel dropped further to $59 a share in after-hours trading. 

 Intel officials warned of a seasonal sales slowdown in the second quarter, during which "we expect revenue to be flat or slightly down," said Andy Bryant, chief financial officer. 

 In addition to launching its super-fast Pentium III chip in the just-ended quarter, Intel bought Sacramento's Level One Communications for approximately $2.2 billion in stock. The purchase was designed to give Intel a foothold in the fast-growing computer networking equipment market. 

 Diversification has become increasingly important to Intel. It is experiencing tough competition from smaller chip makers. Intel recently cut prices on products, including Pentium III, by as much as 43 percent, seeking to boost demand. 

Document krtbn00020010828dv4e00nc7




Abreast of the Market
 International Paper, Cyclicals Rise As Brokerage Firms Rally Again 

 By Robert O'Brien 
Dow Jones Newswires
1,372 words
14 April 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
C2
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 NEW YORK -- The turnaround in the fortunes of cyclical and technology stocks intensified in yesterday's trading, leaving market averages mixed in a session highlighted by one more record by the Dow Jones Industrial Average. 

 On one hand, International Paper shares gained 2 1/4 to 48 5/8, the highest the stock has closed since October. The company represents exactly the sort of relatively cheap, economically sensitive, smokestack business that has seen a remarkable reversal in its profile on Wall Street. 

 After more than a year of suffering with the downturn in the global economy, a host of blue-chip cyclical stocks has instilled confidence in the ability to increase earnings, as exemplified by International Paper, which topped first-quarter forecasts with yesterday's results by a wide margin. 

 Richard Babson, chairman and president of Babson-United Investment Advisors, said that the European central bank's decision to cut interest rates last week showed that "with Europe doing what it can to boost economic demand on the continent, the earnings prospects may be better than anticipated for U.S. companies." 

 Buoyed by gains in some of those cyclical stocks, as well as strong contributions from bellwethers like General Motors, which added 2 5/16 to 90 7/16, and American Express, which rose 3 1/8 to 138 1/2, the Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 55.5, or 0.54%, to close at a historic best of 10395.01. 

 Technology stocks continued to reel from Compaq Computer's warning Friday that its first-quarter profit wouldn't live up to -- or even come close to -- analysts' objectives. Shares of Compaq fell again, ending down 3/16 to 23 7/8. 

 Other computer stocks registered another session of losses. International Business Machines, the biggest drag on the industrial average, fell 3 7/16 to 180. Dell Computer (Nasdaq) declined 1 3/8 to 40 7/16. Gateway retreated 2 7/16 to 67 7/16. 

 The earnings highlight among technology stocks arrived after the close, when Intel, which fell 3/4 to 60 1/2 on Nasdaq during the session, released its first-quarter results. The chip maker beat analysts' forecasts for the period but cautioned that it expected second-quarter revenue to be flat with, or even slightly lower than, first-quarter levels. 

 To be sure, there were select technology winners, and buyers seemed to reward good news with high share prices. Hewlett-Packard added 2 7/16 to 70 13/16, after company officials, touting a new server product, made some encouraging remarks about its earnings prospects. 

 But, overall, the sector showed weakness, as bellwethers like Microsoft, which fell 2 7/8 to 90 1/8, Applied Materials, which declined 2 7/8 to 59 13/16, and Sun Microsystems, which fell 2 1/4 to 65 1/2, all on Nasdaq, lost ground. 

 Brokerage-firm stocks rallied again on strong profits. Shares of PaineWebber Group rose 3 11/16 to 47 1/4, after the New York securities broker reported first-quarter profit that easily outstripped analysts' targets. Bear Stearns, which reported results earlier this week, gained 1 3/4 to 52 1/8. Lehman Brothers Holdings rose 2 3/16 to 67 1/2. 

 Merrill Lynch, however, couldn't hold intraday gains fashioned on its stronger first-quarter profits, which were released yesterday. The stock ended lower, off 2 9/16 to 97 3/8. 

 Online brokerage operations ended sharply higher, helped by talk of consolidation in the sector. Ameritrade (Nasdaq), which is expected to post its quarterly results today, rose 31 to 173 1/4. E*Trade Group (Nasdaq) advanced 29 1/2 to 125 1/2. Charles Schwab, which has been trading like an online brokerage firm recently, gained 15 1/2 to 150 1/2. All three stocks reached 52-week highs yesterday. 

 Weyerhaeuser gained 2 5/16 to 64 7/16. The Federal Way, Wash., forest-products concern reported first-quarter earnings that beat Wall Street's forecasts. The company also agreed to sell its composite-products business and a ply-veneer plant to SierraPine Ltd. 

 Stocks of two other forest-products companies that recently reported upside earnings surprises, Consolidated Papers, which rose 1 1/4 to 26 5/8, and Willamette Industries, which added 1/4 to 39 15/16, also gained ground. 

 Enron rose 3 15/16 to 65 15/16. The Houston oil and gas concern reported stronger-than-expected first-quarter profit. 

 Avon Products advanced 1 13/16 to 53 1/4. The New York direct seller of beauty products said it expects its first-quarter earnings will come in stronger than Wall Street expects. 

 Harley-Davidson gained 2 9/16 to 60 7/8. The Milwaukee motorcycle maker posted first-quarter profit late Monday that beat Wall Street's expectations. 

 Tribune gained 2 1/8 to 78 5/16, reaching a 52-week high. The Chicago publishing and television concern posted first-quarter profit that beat Wall Street's forecasts. 

 Retailers suffered some declines, after economic data released yesterday showed that while consumers continue to spend money, they did so at a slower growth rate in March than for the first two months of this year. 

 Shares of Gap fell 2 7/16 to 74 3/16, Bed Bath & Beyond (Nasdaq) retreated 1 17/32 to 34 31/32, and Home Depot declined 2 3/16 to 64 11/16. Dayton Hudson fell 2 7/8 to 72 7/8, after a 52-week high Monday. Sears Roebuck gave up 1 to 42 5/8. 

 AMR fell 2 1/4 to 65 5/16. Justice Department investigators may bring an antitrust case against the Fort Worth, Texas, air carrier, alleging that the carrier tried illegally to drive a small rival out of American's dominant hub in Dallas, according to an article in yesterday's Wall Street Journal. AMR issued a statement saying," . . . our competitive behavior has been perfectly legal." 

 Cisco Systems (Nasdaq) fell 3 5/8 to 114 1/8, in a session of broad-based losses by technology stocks. The San Jose, Calif., networking-equipment maker agreed to buy GeoTel Communications in a stock swap valued at about $2 billion. GeoTel (Nasdaq), a Littleton, Mass., telecommunications-software developer, rose 11 11/16 to 55 15/16. 

 Knight/Trimark Group (Nasdaq) moved up 20 to 117 1/2. CIBC Oppenheimer started coverage of the Jersey City, N.J., securities broker with a strong buy rating. 

 Visx (Nasdaq) rose 4 3/32 to 134 27/32. Goldman Sachs raised its rating on the Santa Clara, Calif., developer of laserbased surgical systems. 

 Anheuser-Busch dropped 1 7/8 to 77. Merrill Lynch lowered its rating on the stock of the St. Louis brewery. The stock reached a 52-week high Monday. 

 Halliburton gained 1 to 36 3/4. The Dallas oil-services concern said it has no plans for further major layoffs, though the company said it doesn't rule out the possibility of a few additional layoffs. 

 Metromedia Fiber Network (Nasdaq) moved up 9 15/16 to 77 15/16. The New York fiber-optic network operator said it planned to split its stock 2-for-1. 

 Qwest Communications International (Nasdaq) gained 5 1/4 to 96 1/8 on the Denver multimedia communications concern. Morgan Stanley raised its price target on the stock to 110 from 85. 

 The technical underpinnings of the market started relatively strong, but deteriorated as the session wore on, and while breadth was positive and volume picked up a little from Monday, the final picture the technicals told was mixed. Advancing issues' advantage over decliners on the New York Stock Exchange proved minimal, 1,562 to 1,480, according to preliminary data. Share volume of 808.0 million beat out Monday's 806.8 million. 

 The Nasdaq Composite Index declined 15.31, a loss of 0.59%, to end at 2583.50, after posting a record with Monday's close. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index also closed lower, falling 8.82, or 0.65%, to end at 1349.82. 

Document j000000020010828dv4e00a5z




 Reverses on Nasdaq persuade Trintech to consider dual listing. 

 By MADELEINE LYONS. 
535 words
13 April 1999
Irish Times
IRTI
15
English
(c) 1999

 Trintech would consider a dual listing on US and European stock exchanges given the recent hits taken by Irish companies quoted on the Nasdaq stock exchange. 

 Mr Cyril McGuire, joint managing director with his brother John of the Irish electronic payment software company, said the firm would learn from the experiences of its colleagues on the Nasdaq. "In that volatile market, it may be more appropriate to look at the European exchanges, and the possibility of a dual listing." Mr McGuire said a stock market listing was just one option open to Trintech, and such a decision would only be taken when the "conditions in the market, and for shareholders, were right". He could not say when this might happen. 

 Trintech's progress will be bolstered with yesterday's announcement of an alliance with Compaq, the world's largest personal computer maker. Despite Compaq's surprise profit warning for its first quarter last week, Trintech expects a benefit of about $2 million (E1.85 million) from the deal this year alone. Under the arrangement, Trintech will be Compaq's preferred technology to offer secure Internet payment transactions running on Compaq's server platforms. The two will engage in a joint market and sales arrangement worldwide. Since Compaq acquired Tandem Computers last year, around 75 per cent of all automated teller machine transactions run on Compaq technology. 

 Once Trintech's software has been validated and tested with Compaq hardware, it will be available through Compaq's ActiveAnswers, an online resource for marketing, selling and deploying business software to Compaq's partners and salesforce. Its users include a significant proportion of technology buyers for the global banking sector. "The alliance provides customers with the most advanced payment processing hardware and software available, which enables them to cut transaction costs and allocate more resources to their core competencies," said Mr John McGuire. 

 Last August, Trintech secured $20 million in private funding - the largest single investment in an Irish software company to date. Since then, it has used the capital to finance it through a period of major growth. It has consolidated its US presence by setting up joint headquarters in Silicon Valley, California, and Dublin, where it officially opens a centre of e-commerce excellence this week. Based beside its old location in the South County Business Park in Leopardstown, the 25,000 sq ft facility houses Trintech's 225 employees. Since last year, Trintech has practically doubled its workforce, and 22 people are now based in the US. It has also been granted planning permission for a second development on the five-acre site. Though there are no immediate plans, Mr Cyril McGuire says another 35,000 sq ft facility on the same site is possible. 

 In the past year Trintech has placed less emphasis on applying the highly stringent global secure electronic transaction standard to all its electronic payment products. It has moved instead to develop a hybrid of the SET and the more convenient Secure Socket Layer standard. Trintech says this is the first time an e-commerce payment product will allow banks, merchants and consumers to pay conveniently but with added security. 

Document irti000020010906dv4d00t1b




 FFBN Gaming/Lodging Wrap: Starwood Confirms Rumors 

1,086 words
13 April 1999
13:28
Federal Filings Newswires
FF
English
(c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


ISSUER: FEDERAL FILINGS BUSINESS NEWS
SYMBOL: X.FFI
=======================================================================
             "The Daily Gaming & Lodging Market Wrap-Up"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
        Published by The Federal Filings Gaming & Lodging Group
                           April 13, 1999
=======================================================================



         Returning to a pattern that was prevalent through out the
second half of 1998, gaming and lodging stocks failed to share in a
powerful broad-market rally Monday.
         The Federal Filings Casino Index slipped 13.34 (0.7%) to
2014.96, posting its second consecutive decline.  Among the large-caps,
Park Place Entertainment Corp. (PPE) suffered the worst selloff in
percentage terms, falling 3/16 (2.1%) to 8 9/16, while MGM Grand Inc.
(MGG) shed 7/16 (1.2%) to end at 37 9/16.
         Meanwhile, our Casino Supplier Index gave back 6.80 points
(1.6%) to 417.01, while our Racetrack Index outpaced the rest, improving
3.86 (3.1%) to 127.53.  Sending the supplier sector lower yesterday was
International Game Technology (IGT), which unloaded 1/2 (3.0%) at 16
1/4, while Churchill Downs inc. (CHDN) leapt 1 3/8 (4.6%) to finish at
31 3/8.
         Turning to hotel stocks, Red Roof Inns Inc. (RRI), along with
U.S. Franchise Systems Inc. (USFS), accounted for much of the Federal
Filings Lodging Index's drop off 30.46 (1.1%) to 2773.83.  Shares of Red
Roof sank 3/4 (4.5%) to 16, while U.S. Franchise tumbled 13/16 (6.0%) to
12 3/4.
         Regaining early morning losses, the Dow Jones Industrial
Average finished up a hefty 165.67 points to close at a new record of
10339.51.  Broader market measures also battled back from a morning dip
set off by Compaq Computer Corp.'s (CPQ) earnings warning.  The NASDAQ
Composite Index edged up 5.76 points to 2598.81, while the S&P 500-Stock
Index climbed 10.28 to 1358.63.  The price on the 30-year Treasury bond
rose 7/32, sending its yield down to 5.45% from 5.46% late Friday.
COMPANY NEWS:
                                            Net     Pct     EPS    EPS
                                    Close  Change  Change   99E    00E
STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS (HOT)       32    -1/4    -0.8%  $1.47  $1.84
Starwoord Hotels and Resorts Worldwide Inc. confirmed rumors that it is
talks to sell its gaming business.  As reported, the company declined to
comment last week on speculation that it was in talks to sell its
Caesars World Gaming division to Park Place Entertainment Corp. (PPE).
A source close to the situation told CNBC's David Faber that Starwood
put the value of its gaming business at $3 billion, while Park Place
said it was worth $2.5 billion.  Starwood said it won't comment further
until it reaches a definitive agreement or terminates discussions.
                                            Net     Pct     EPS    EPS
                                    Close  Change  Change   99E    00E
LODGIAN INC. (LOD)                 5 1/16   +1/16   +1.3%  $0.62  $0.85
Lodgian Inc. named Kenneth Posner chief financial officer, effective May
1.  Posner is replacing Warren Knight.  Lodgian, which manages hotels,
said Posner was chief financial officer, Hyatt Group of Cos, which is
privately held by the Pritzker family of Chicago.
                                            Net     Pct     EPS    EPS
                                    Close  Change  Change   99E    00E
INLAND ENTERTAINMENT CORP. (INLD)   2 3/8   -1/8    -5.0%   N/A    N/A
Inland Entertainment said it will launch a casino gambling and Las Vegas
general-information web site at the end of April, called Las Vegas At
Home.com.  The company said users outside the U.S. may place bets as low
as one penny.  The site will use Cryptologic Inc.'s Ecash software to
secure user information.
                                            Net     Pct     EPS    EPS
                                    Close  Change  Change   99E    00E
COLONIAL DOWNS HOLDINGS INC. (CDWN) 1 3/4   +1/32   +1.8%   N/A    N/A
Colonial Downs Holdings said there's a "good possibility" that it could
break even or even record a slight profit for 1999, a Dow Jones Newswire
story said.  Last year the company reported a loss of $5.3 million, or
73 cents per share.  "Our goal is to operate at cash-flow break-even,"
President Ian Stewart told Dow Jones in an interview Friday.  "But I'm
comfortable saying that a slightly profitable year is a good
possibility."  If the New Kent County, Va., horse-racing and pari-mutuel
betting facility meets that goal it will be because of several recent
key developments, Stewart said.  Among them is significant cost savings
in core operating expenses at Colonial Downs' satellite wagering
facilities.  Business is good, the story said.  Citing a wagering
increase of 4% in January compared with a year ago, while in February it
was up almost 3%.  "Overall, business is up over a year ago," Stewart
said.
For the fourth quarter, Colonial Downs reported losses of $868,000, or
12 cents per share, compared with $974,000, or 13 cents per share, a
year ago.  The most recent fourth quarter was slightly ahead of
analysts' expectations.  According to a First Call Corp. survey of one
analyst, Colonial Downs is expected to report a first-quarter loss of
one cent per share and a full-year loss of 15 cents per share.
Note: All earnings estimates provided by First Call and are presented on
a diluted basis unless otherwise noted.  Index components are available
upon request.
=======================================================================
               THE FEDERAL FILINGS GAMING & LODGING INDEXES
=======================================================================
INDEX                                  CLOSE   NET CH   PCT CH   YTD CH
=======================================================================
FEDERAL FILINGS CASINO INDEX         2014.96   -13.34   -0.66%   27.74%
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Large-Cap                            1556.01   -13.94   -0.89%   27.64%
Mid-Cap                               360.13     0.65    0.18%   34.45%
Small-Cap                              22.66     0.27    1.19%   -0.19%
Riverboats                             76.16    -0.31   -0.40%   24.95%
=======================================================================
FEDERAL FILINGS CASINO SUPPLIER INDEX 417.01    -6.80   -1.61%  -23.10%
=======================================================================
FEDERAL FILINGS RACETRACK INDEX       127.53     3.86    3.12%   18.54%
=======================================================================
FEDERAL FILINGS LODGING INDEX        2773.83   -30.46   -1.09%   10.36%
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Hotel Owner-Operators                 345.43   -10.56   -2.97%  -17.43%
Hotel Operators/Franchisors          2145.14   -19.90   -0.92%   21.27%
Extended-Stay                         126.72     0.10    0.08%   -8.99%
Timeshares                            156.55    -0.10   -0.07%  -16.31%
=======================================================================
Phil McCarty
Editor/analyst
(202) 628-8904
E-mail: mccartp@fedfil.com



(END) FEDERAL FILINGS-DOW JONES NEWS 04-13-99



08:28


Document ff00000020010827dv4d00z5b




 U.S. Shares In London Flat; Mkt  Cautious  Ahead Of Key Data 

312 words
13 April 1999
13:15
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 LONDON (Dow Jones)--U.S. shares are flat in London-based trading Tuesday, ahead of key official data this session. 

 A U.S. equities trader said he expects the Dow Jones Industrial Average to open unchanged later in the session. 

 "We had a great late run on Wall Street yesterday (Monday) and now it's time for a breather and consolidation," said the trader. "With inflation data due this session, it's the opportune time to be cautious," he added. 

 U.S. Consumer Price Index for March is due at 1230 GMT, and the Dow Jones Newswires median estimate is a rise of 0.3%, while March retail sales are expected to be up 0.5% on a year ago. At 1300 GMT, the Atlanta Federal Manufacturing index is due, and may give further direction to the market if the CPI data comes in as-expected. 

 The DJIA rose 165.67 points to 10,339.51 Monday and set a new record-high close. 

 Following Compaq Computer's first quarter profit warning issued Friday, U.S. technology stocks contributed to a faltering start for the overall U.S. market. But late Monday in New York some of those U.S. technology stocks pared losses, and internet stocks weathered the downside. 

 Even with computer behemoth International Business Machines falling in Compaq's wake Monday, the DJIA manage to rise strongly, thanks to gains in perennially underperforming paper and industrial stocks. 

 At 1200 GMT, the S&P 500 March futures contract was down 3.00 at 1369.00 and U.S. 30-year treasury bonds were down 5/32 at 96 28/32 with a yield of 5.46%. 

 -By George Matlock; 44-171-832-9587; George.Matlock@dowjones.com 

 (END) Dow Jones Newswires 13-04-99 

 1215GMT 

4116 5025

Document dji0000020010826dv4d02r28




Heard In Europe
 Compaq Warning Leads Tech Stocks Lower in Europe 

 By Kevin J. Delaney 
Staff Reporter
643 words
13 April 1999
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
13
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 The first-quarter profit warning from Compaq Computer Corp. sparked a decline in European technology stocks amid worries that similar warnings from other big U.S. companies could lead to a broader fall. 

 While the personal-computer maker -- which announced late Friday that its first-quarter profit would be less than half Wall Street's projections -- has business relations with only a few European companies, the news was enough to spur apprehensions about slowing growth in a range of technology indexes and shares. 

 The Dow Jones Stoxx technology index fell 1.6%, while shares of German software maker SAP AG slid 1.3%. In Britain, Misys PLC shares declined 2.6% and shares of Admiral PLC, an information-technology services group, fell 3%. 

 Compaq blamed slackening computer sales for the profit warning, though it added that sales were slightly better in Europe. Compaq is Europe's market leader among PC makers, and any sales decline would be felt by its partners who resell Compaq's computers. As a result, shares in Computacenter PLC, an information-technology services company whose sales account for about 35% of the PC maker's revenue in the U.K., fell 5.5%. 

 While analysts don't expect Compaq's announcement to negatively affect most European technology stocks, they said the warning fuels worries about a broader fall in technology growth. 

 "Nineteen ninety-nine is a very difficult year because of the uncertainty," said Lucy McFetrich, an information-technology services analyst at Merrill Lynch in London. She said other U.S. firms are likely to issue warnings in the coming months, which could increase the negative pressure on the technology sector in Europe. 

 Analysts also point to high valuations in the sector as a reason for the jitters. European information-technology services companies, for example, are trading at an average 41 times estimated earnings for 1999, or roughly equal to two times this year's growth. That's double what you would normally want to pay, according to Coleen Kaiser, an analyst at BancBoston Robertson Stephens in London. 

 "The slowdown is here," predicted Sharif Taha, an analyst at Deutsche Morgan Grenfell, who estimated information-technology services growth will eventually drop to 12% from about 30% in the last few years. "So there is a correction to come." He said Anglo-Dutch group CMG PLC is among the companies whose shares could take a hit. 

 Hardware pricing is also raising some concerns. During the first quarter, there was a sharp drop in average prices of both PCs and servers in Europe, according to Brian Pearce, senior analyst with International Data Corp. in Paris. The total value of PC-server sales in France, for example, fell about 40% in the first quarter from a year earlier, he said. 

 Growth at software companies in Europe is also cooling off, analysts said. In the corporate area, there are signs that growth is slowing outside of a few niche fields, like telecommuncations and the Internet, they said. SAP, for one, warned late last month that first-quarter sales growth would come in at less than half of last year's results, which failed to meet even lowered expectations. 

 While it's too early to say whether the European doomsayers are making the right call, any negative news from the U.S. tends to reinforce the view that a slowdown is due, which could ignite widespread sales in Europe technology sector. 

 In particular, European investors will be monitoring quarterly earnings reports from Intel Corp -- which reports today -- Microsoft Corp., and Dell Computer Corp. for clues as to whether Compaq's troubles indicate broader industry woes. "The Intel results will be extremely important in how the market reacts to Compaq," said Sharon Coombs, European equity strategist at HSBC Securities. 

Document wsje000020010830dv4d007cv




Asian-Pacific Stock Markets
 Most Asian Markets Fall, Spooked By  Profit Warning  From Compaq 

A Wall Street Journal Europe Roundup
414 words
13 April 1999
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
8
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 Asian stock markets were rocked by a profit warning from a leading U.S. computer maker and weaker Japanese share prices, analysts said. 

 The first-quarter profit warning from Compaq Computer, the world's No. 1 computer maker, and fears that U.S. stocks may be due for a correction following last week's record run, prompted many investors to book some profits. 

 Markets with a large exposure to electronic-goods exports -- Taiwan, Singapore and Hong Kong -- all closed weaker. Shares in Bangkok, Jakarta and Kuala Lumpur also dropped. However, markets in Bombay, Manila and Seoul showed resilience. Hopes India's government may survive a vote of confidence helped shares in Bombay, while an interest-rate cut in the Philippines sent Manila shares up 2.5%. 

 Tokyo 

 Stocks fell 2.1%, ending a five-day rally, after Compaq warned, after the close Friday, that its first-quarter earnings will fall below analysts' estimates. The warning sparked worries that earnings at Japanese technology companies may also come in lower than forecast. 

 Expectations that U.S. shares will fall Monday also incited selling, traders said. 

 Volume on the First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange was estimated at 603.64 million shares, down sharply from 1.24 billion shares Friday. 

 Retreating issues outnumbered advancers 851 to 359, while 117 issues were unchanged. 

 Traders said investors in Tokyo will be closely watching to see how Compaq's profit warning affects stocks in New York. Intel's first-quarter earnings, due out today, will also be a key factor determining the future direction of shares. 

 Softbank ended at 17,400 yen ($143.95), down 1,600 yen, or 8.4%. Hitachi fell 27 yen, or 2.9%, to 913 yen, and Sony dropped 360 yen, or 2.9%, to 12,000 yen. NEC retreated 55 yen, or 3.8%, to 1,400 yen. 

 Hong Kong 

 Shares fell 1.4%, as short-term investors unloaded their stocks following gains of almost 8% last week, traders said. 

 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by just 234 to 231. 

 Traders said participants were also selling ahead of a possible correction on Wall Street, adding that a sharp fall in Standard & Poor's 500-stock index futures in Asian trading Monday reflected expectations that New York shares may head lower. 

 Investors will closely monitor the U.S. stock market overnight Monday for direction. 

Document wsje000020010830dv4d007a9




Abreast of the Market
 AlliedSignal, Caterpillar Move Up As Industrials Set Another Record 

 By Robert O'Brien 
Dow Jones Newswires
1,333 words
13 April 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
C4
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 NEW YORK -- The cheap stocks of smokestack industries that played the wallflower role on Wall Street for most of the past year found themselves thrust into the role of darling, sending market averages to more records at the close. 

 Shares of International Paper moved up 2 3/16 to 46 3/8, on volume that was twice the daily average. AlliedSignal added 1 1/16 to 53 1/8. Both companies are slated to release first-quarter earnings this morning, and traders said the outlook for earnings surprises was promising. 

 "After Alcoa's earnings last week proved surprisingly strong, we started to see interest develop in some of these issues," said Scott Curtis, senior equity trader at Brown Brothers Harriman. Willamette Industries, a paper maker that did put up better-than-expected first-quarter profit results, moved up 1 5/16 to 39 11/16, kicking off what will prove to be a busy week on the profit front. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average got some help from some of the cheaply valued blue-chip industrials on its roster. Caterpillar gained 2 5/8 to 51 3/8, after Merrill Lynch raised its rating on the stock. DuPont increased 2 1/4 to 61 1/16. 

 The industrial average increased 165.67, or 1.63%, to close at 10339.51, and record a best-ever finish. Other market indicators also rose to record finishes. 

 To be sure, there were some featured performers rallying with the understudies. General Electric gained 4 5/16 to 116 1/2. AT&T gained 2 7/16 to 87 15/16. General Motors added 2 1/2 to 88 1/8. 

 But, remarkably enough, the Dow's latest record-setting performance came in a session when International Business Machines lost ground, falling 2 7/8 to 183 7/16. 

 In fact, the whole technology sector -- except some Internet issues, which are trading with a life of their own -- hit the skids after Compaq Computer blasted investors' sensibilities with its warning of a coming earnings shortfall. 

 Compaq fell 6 7/8 to 24 1/16, but the collateral damage wasn't widespread. Several technology stocks ended lower, including a number of bellwethers, but overall, the technology group posted a session of modest losses. 

 There were a number of casualties in the blue-chip sector, especially among the computer makers, whose profit prospects presumably would be damaged if Compaq's warning is borne out that its troubles originated with a sector-wide problem in the PC business, rather than from a company-specific shortfall. 

 Whether investors took Compaq's explanations at face value or not, stocks in the group sold off. Shares of Dell Computer (Nasdaq) lost 1 3/4 to 41 13/16, though its volume Monday of 42 million shares trailed daily average of 49 million. Gateway lost 2 7/8 to 69 7/8. 

 There was some fallout in the broader high-technology sector, as well. Intel (Nasdaq) dropped 4 1/8 to 61 1/4 , part of a decline in several semiconductor issues. The chip maker said that it planned to decrease prices of some of its Pentium processors, extending its price war with Advanced Micro Devices in the market for low-end chips. Advanced Micro lost 9/16 to 15 1/16. Motorola, which is slated to report earnings today, fell 1 7/16 to 81 9/16, and Texas Instruments declined 3 13/16 to 106 13/16. Micron Technology fell 3 1/8 to 44 3/4. 

 Among software stocks, EMC dropped 4 5/16 to 130 9/16, Microsoft (Nasdaq) declined 1 1/4 to 93 and Computer Associates fell 1 to 34 15/16. 

 Compaq's warning about the impact of declining PC prices hurt most technology stocks, but some Internet names actually improved -- the theory promulgated being that cheap PC prices open the Web to more consumers. Shares of Excite (Nasdaq) increased 21 3/16 to 171 15/16, reaching a 52-week high. At Home (Nasdaq) gained 16 11/16 to 189 5/16, also establishing a 52-week high. Mindspring Enterprises (Nasdaq) added 10 3/8 to 122 5/8. 

 Real Networks (Nasdaq) gained 39 1/2 to 247, after the company said it reached an agreement with IBM to develop a system to distribute music over the Internet. An analyst at Friedman Billings Ramsey raised the firm's target on the stock to $300 from $200. 

 CMGI (Nasdaq), which invests in Internet concerns, also reached a 52-week high, gaining 37 5/8 to 302. 

 Still, even in the Internet sector, there were some noticeable gaps. Shares of eBay fell 6 3/4 to 176 5/8, shares of theglobe.com retreated 6 13/16 to 72 1/8, and Yahoo! declined 4 1/16 to 202 15/16, all three on Nasdaq. 

 Online brokerage firms, however, continued surging on positive earnings expectations. Ameritrade Holding (Nasdaq) rose 23%, or 26 43/64, to 142 1/4. Charles Schwab, the biggest online firm, rose 9, or 7.1%, to 135. 

 So what propelled the market higher, if most sectors of the technology universe -- traditionally a leadership group -- proved so weak? Traders said the market was benefiting from strong buying from mutual funds, as investors fund their retirement plans ahead of this week's tax bill. That money got put right to work, because money managers have learned that they can't sit on any cash. 

 But many fund managers have disciplines that prevent them from buying stocks of companies that have put up disappointing earnings, or warned of a profit shortfall. So stocks like Gillette, which warned earlier this month of a coming earnings shortfall, didn't progress. It fell back 1 3/16 to 51 1/16. 

 Gannett advanced 1 9/16 to 64 3/4. The Arlington, Va., media and broadcasting concern beat Wall Street's expectations with its first-quarter results. 

 Dow Jones increased 2 3/4 to 50 7/8. The New York publishing concern, which publishes The Wall Street Journal, reported first-quarter earnings that topped forecasts. 

 Novellus Systems (Nasdaq) declined 7 11/16 to 56 1/4. The San Jose, Calif., chip equipment maker reported first-quarter profit that matched Wall Street's forecasts, but shares fell amid broader pessimism about technology earnings. 

 Bergen Brunswig gained 1 1/8 to 21. The Orange, Calif., drug and medical-surgical supplies distributor said it expects its revenue growth for this fiscal year will live up to analysts' forecasts. 

 Bear Stearns added 3/4 to 50 3/8. The New York securities broker reported fiscal third-quarter earnings that beat analysts' targets. Wall Street was looking for $1.15 a share in profits; the firm posted $1.42 a share. 

 Hibernia gained 5/8 to 12 1/8. The New Orleans banking concern, which reached a 52-week low last week at 11 1/8, and last month guided analysts' earnings forecasts lower, posted first-quarter profit that matched analysts' forecasts. 

 Genentech rose 2 11/16 to 87 1/2. The South San Francisco, Calif., biopharmaceutical concern reported first-quarter results that outstripped analysts' projections. 

 Covad Communications Group (Nasdaq) advanced 19 to 100 1/2, reaching a 52-week high. Pacific Crest started coverage of the Santa Clara, Calif., provider of high-speed digital communications services. 

 Omnicare gained 1 7/16 to 18 13/16. Merrill Lynch raised its rating on the Cincinnati pharmacy services provider. 

 Advancing issues managed to triumph over decliners on the New York Stock Exchange, 1,676 to 1,307, according to preliminary data. Share volume reached 806.8 million shares. 

 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index moved up 10.29, or 0.76%, to 1358.64. The Nasdaq composite moved up 5.76, or 0.22%, or 2598.81. Both indicators reached records, extending Friday's highs. 

Document j000000020010828dv4d009zb




 Compaq's Stock Skids on  Profit Warning  --- Shares Fall 22% as PC Firm Blames Industry Woes; Analysts  Cut  Forecasts 

 By Gary McWilliams 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
933 words
13 April 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
A3
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 Shares of Compaq Computer Corp. tumbled 22% yesterday, closing down $6.875 to $24.0625 near a 52-week low of $22.9375, after the company warned of slowing sales and plunging profits. 

 The Houston computer maker went to great pains to claim its problems weren't of its own making, scheduling two separate calls with investors and analysts yesterday after saying there would be none. "It is, we believe, an industrywide problem of very competitive pricing," said Compaq Chief Executive Eckhard Pfeiffer. He also said corporate demand for personal computers improved somewhat in March but that the improvement wasn't enough to overcome the revenue shortfall. 

 Still, analysts lowered their projections for the first and second quarters, signaling they don't expect a quick fix to its profit woes. In addition to more than halving consensus estimates to 15 cents a share for the first quarter, analysts lopped a third off their projections for Compaq's secondquarter profit. 

 Compaq's bad news sent shares of other technology companies sliding, including International Business Machines Corp., Intel Corp., Dell Computer Corp. and Gateway Inc. Compaq's gloom contributed to an early decline in the Dow Jones Industrial Average, but the average recovered and ended the day up 165.67 to close at 10339.51. 

 The world's biggest PC maker is now expected to earn about $460 million, or 26 cents a share, in the second quarter, down from the $685 million, or 39 cents a share, originally expected, according to estimates tallied by First Call. The company said late Friday it expects to report a first-quarter profit of about $250 million, up from $16 million a year ago, on revenue of $9.4 billion. Results are expected April 21. 

 Analysts continued to see the company as mired by its own missteps. "We talked to Dell, IBM and H-P [Hewlett-Packard Co.] and they're all feeling pretty good about their PC businesses right now," said Merrill Lynch analyst Steven Milunovich. He believes Compaq is losing its most profitable PC sales to direct sellers such as Dell and is being forced to compete on price against lower-cost suppliers. "The rugs are being pulled out from underneath them. They are squeezed from above by direct [sales] and from underneath by $400 to $600 PCs," Mr. Milunovich said. 

 "If there's an industry problem, we would have heard from Intel by now," said David Wu, an analyst at ABN AMRO. "Compaq made up 13% of Intel's business last year. The fact that Intel hasn't preannounced a shortfall says 87% of the world is doing OK." 

 In an expansion of its previous statements, Compaq said yesterday its profit also was hurt by shifts within its sales of high-performance systems and add-on products. 

 Mr. Pfeiffer, the CEO, blamed a "shortfall" in sales of high-profit computer options, such as add-on storage devices, and a tendency by its buyers to prefer lowerpriced network servers, which also carry lower profits. He declined to provide specifics of the sales declines. 

 James D. Poyner, an analyst with CIBC Oppenheimer, said the shift to lowerpriced PCs indicates that Compaq's business customers aren't embracing machines using the latest Intel chips, the Pentium III processors, which carry higher margins. The profit swoon "says the Pentium III product cycle is a dud," he said. "This is the industry's worst fear: The corporate market is discovering cheap PCs just as consumers did two years ago." 

 Indeed, he believes computer buyers may be stealing a trick that auto buyers began using a few years ago-holding out for discounts. "The one thing buyers can make book on is PCs are going to be cheaper in six months. We may be into this vicious cycle of rebates where buyers wait for the rebate," Mr. Poyner said. 

 In another indication of the company's woes, Compaq saw Dell surpass it last quarter as the leading PC supplier to U.S. businesses, according to market researcher ZD Market Intelligence. It said Dell took a 21.2% share of PCs sold to U.S. businesses, compared with 18% for Compaq. "Preliminary results from the first quarter of 1999 indicate that Dell is now opening up a sizable lead," the firm said. It based the results on a telephone survey of businesses. 

 Some institutional shareholders said they wouldn't be surprised by changes in Compaq's management as a result of the continued troubles. "There is a lot of anger out there. [It] isn't so much the problems in the company as it is the way the company mishandled what was going on," said Chris Grisanti, director of research at Compaq shareholder Spears Benzak Salomon & Farrell Inc. 

 "Someone should take responsibility for this," said Ashok Kumar, an analyst at US Bancorp Piper Jaffray, who in a prescient move lowered his first-quarter revenue and earnings estimates three weeks ago to $9.4 billion and 20 cents a share, citing dealer attempts to move out older inventory. 

 Part of the sell-off in Compaq shares can be attributed to investors concerned with the company's flip-flops. As recently as late February, it sought to allay Wall Street's profit fears. "The Street will be willing to forgive them even a disastrous quarter if there was the confidence it would be dealt with in an open, straight-forward manner," said Mr. Grisanti. 

Document j000000020010828dv4d009z6




 Technology & Health 
 Compaq Shares Sink on  Profit Warning  --- Analysts Question PC Maker's Ability to Compete as Demand Declines 

 By Gary McWilliams 
Staff Reporter
820 words
13 April 1999
The Asian Wall Street Journal
AWSJ
13
English
(c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 Shares of Compaq Computer Corp. were down 21% in Monday morning trading, after the company surprised analysts by saying first-quarter profit would be less than half of Wall Street's projections. 

 Although Compaq blames weaker-than-expected sales for the downturn, some analysts are questioning the personal-computer maker's ability to manage competition while melding operations with Digital Equipment Corp. 

 Compaq, which in February warned of slackening demand for its PCs, said Friday that heightened competition and disappointing sales of its most profitable computers will result in net income of about $250 million, or 15 cents per share, for the first quarter. 

 That is well below the already-lowered consensus estimate of $560 million, or 32 cents per share, by Wall Street analysts. Compaq projected revenue at $9.4 billion, $100 million to $400 million below analysts' projections. 

 In Monday morning trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Compaq shares were down $6.5625 each at $24.375. 

 Compaq's disclosure shocked many analysts who had come to believe that the company's income was on track, and several pointed to the integration of Digital Equipment, which Compaq acquired in June. "The company has overstated the DEC synergies," said Ashok Kumar, an analyst at U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray Inc. 

 "Compaq said there was lower demand; everything we see says different," said Charles R. Wolf, an analyst at Warburg Dillon Read. Indeed, a day before Compaq's announcement, rival Dell Computer Corp. called PC demand healthy, across all geographic, product and customer segments. 

 Instead, said Mr. Wolf, "there are two issues here: integrating DEC and the misguided steps the company took last fall" to sell directly to businesses. He said he believes Compaq's need to add dealer incentives for products intended to be sold directly has contributed to margin declines. 

 In an interview, Compaq's chief executive, Eckhard Pfeiffer, insisted the profit woes were because of what he described as a roughly $600 million shortfall in expected sales during the period. 

 "Everyone is building expectations on certain market demand growth. If (demand) comes in at a somewhat lower level, the competitive reaction leads to price cuts that are deeper or more frequent. We had both these factors in the last quarter," said Mr. Pfeiffer, adding, "This should not be completely blown out of proportion." 

 He said the company will continue to look for ways to improve production and delivery, address margin improvements and complete its absorption of Digital Equipment. Financial results will be released April 21. 

 The timing of this latest problem couldn't be worse for Mr. Pfeiffer, who has been struggling to turn around the Houston PC maker's fortunes for better than a year. This week, he opens a weeklong customer gathering designed to showcase Compaq's products and operations. He has invited about 4,000 executives from its biggest customers, including Ford Motor Co., Nippon Steel Corp. and Nestle SA, to hear how Compaq products and service can help them adapt to the changes spurred by the Internet. 

 Instead, he is apt to face questions over the miscues in his own business that rivals have used to outmuscle Compaq. "To come out on the ninth of April and announce you've missed the quarter by 50% represents a huge credibility problem," said Ciaran T. O'Kelly, managing director of equity trading at Salomon Smith Barney Inc. 

 The profit woes suggest sales of big computers acquired through the acquisitions of Digital Equipment and Tandem Computers continue to fall, said analysts. Sales of the higher-priced machines, which carry gross margins at least double those of PCs, aren't salvaging the drop in PC margins. Compaq's product gross margin is expected to be about 22.5% for the quarter, similar to those of Dell and Gateway Inc. 

 Analysts said the shortfall is likely to expand the cutbacks now under way and force a re-evaluation of Compaq's direct-sales efforts. "Compaq claimed all along it wouldn't be structurally disadvantaged once DEC got absorbed. Now we may see them challenging that assumption," said Louis J. Mazzucchelli Jr., analyst at Gerard Klauer Mattison. 

 The company said it "will continue its aggressive drive" to cut costs and operating expenses "in the face of a very competitive market." 

 Compaq's juggling of sales through dealers and through its own telephone and Internet sales operation also could come under new scrutiny. Two weeks ago, Compaq disclosed it would make its five-month-old Prosignia PC line, designed for direct sales via the Internet and telephone, available through retail stores. The move only complicated the company's distribution, said critics. "If you want to make sure you're getting the best Compaq price, you have to shop four (sales) channels," said Mr. Mazzucchelli. 

Document awsj000020010825dv4d003sa




 Analysts Ponder Implications Of Compaq's Warning On PC Industry 

620 words
12 April 1999
18:54
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Compaq Computer Corp.'s profit warning has a few analysts concerned about growth prospects for the personal computer industry. 

 BancBoston Robertson Stephens's Daniel Niles said Monday that while he isn't concerned about unit growth in the industry, falling PC prices could stunt revenue growth. Niles projects PC revenue growth of 3% in 1999 - below his previous estimate of 6% but above last year's 2% pace. PC unit demand will be about flat with last year at about 12% to 13% growth, Niles said. 

 Niles said PC revenue growth will be difficult through the fall because of the move to sub-$500 and free PCs in the consumer market, and the growing attraction of machines based on Intel Corp.'s low-end Celeron processors as an alternative to more-expensive Pentium II and Pentium III PCs in the corporate market. He also cited spending by large corporations to fix their so-called year 2000 computer glitches, as well as usual summer seasonality. 

 The analyst believes the move to sub-$1000 machines in the consumer market last year could be followed by similar pricing declines in the corporate market this year. As a result, Niles believes average PC selling prices will fall another 8% in 1999, above his previous expectation of 6% but below last year's decline of 9%. 

 On the positive side, Niles pointed out that channel inventories are low, the industry is seeing a recovery to double-digit unit growth in Asia from a 2% decline, small and medium-sized corporations are increasing year 2000 spending, and increasing broadband deployment could spur demand for more powerful PCs. 

 Compaq (CPQ), which earlier this year said PC demand was weakening, warned after U.S. markets closed Friday that its profit would be 15 cents a share for the period, compared with the already lowered 32-cents-a-share mean estimate of analysts polled by First Call. 

 The disclosure cast a shadow on other companies in the technology arena. 

 "It's negative news for the whole tech sector," said Peter Coolidge, head trader at Brean Murray. "Anytime you get a surprise like this it's discomforting to the whole market." 

 The news took Wall Street by surprise and has led some observers to wonder whether the problems that have hurt Compaq could be endemic to the industry. "Some people were coming to the conclusion that it's not just seasonal and it's not just specific to Compaq," said Bill Meehan, chief market strategist at Cantor Fitzgerald. 

 However, Bob Herwick, president of Herwick Capital Management, said Compaq's problems are likely company specific. He notes that the company has been struggling to better compete with Dell Computer Corp.'s (DELL) direct-selling business. Still, he suggested that industry observers will have a better sense of the overall health of the industry after Intel Corp. (INTC) reports its quarterly results on Tuesday. 

 Merrill Lynch & Co. analyst Steve Milunovich said issues expected to affect Compaq's first-quarter earnings are likely to continue into subsequent quarters. "This probably isn't just a one-quarter problem," he said. "There are some structural issues at Compaq." 

 Milunovich expects Compaq will continue to grapple with its hybrid direct-indirect model. "So, I definitely think it's worse for Compaq than it will likely be for other PC makers," he said. The analyst also said he expects Compaq to enact further restructuring plans, as well added headcount reductions. 

 Compaq Chief Executive Eckhard Pfeiffer on Monday said the company's profit shortfall was related to industry conditions, not internal problems. 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020329dv4c0274l




 Midday Europe Forex:Dlr Falls Vs Yen As Wall Street Shudders 

496 words
12 April 1999
11:38
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 LONDON (Dow Jones)-- The dollar is lower against the yen midday Monday and likely to stay that way as New York traders look ahead to a week in which the U.S. stock market looks increasingly vulnerable. 

 After falling gradually most of the Asian session, the dollar and the euro dropped half a yen midmorning, with traders blaming the fall on heavy selling from European funds and other European and U.S. institutional investors. 

 That fall triggered stop loss selling at Y120.40 and Y120.30, which eventually sent the dollar through strong support at Y120.00. 

 "The gut feeling is that it will go a little lower," said one London based trader. Activity was heavy in the dollar-yen market, after the sharp midmorning fall, he said. 

 The trader said that large U.S. and European banks were selling dollars in Europe, battling lukewarm support from Japanese banks at Y120.00. 

 At 1015 GMT, the dollar was at Y119.84, down from Y120.63 in Tokyo at 0515 GMT and Y120.88 late in New York Friday. 

 Worries about Wall Street rattled U.S. investors over the weekend. Compaq Computer Corp., a leading U.S. technology stock, surprised markets with a profit warning Friday. With the Dow Jones Industrial Average in record territory above the much-touted 10,000-level, the possibility of a steep correction has crossed many investors' minds. 

 Midday, the S&P Index future was trading more than 15 points lower, foreshadowing a rocky start for equity trading in New York. But Japanese stocks didn't provide too much support for the yen either: Tokyo's Nikkei index dropped more than 2% Monday. 

 European traders said euro trading was light. The euro dropped more than a half yen midmorning along with the dollar, but recovered some of those losses, trading around midday at Y130.09, down from Y130.64 late in Tokyo and Y130.54 in New York Friday. 

 At 1015 GMT the euro was $1.0855, up from $1.0830 earlier and $1.0795 Friday. 

 After last week's decision by the European Central Bank to cut its benchmark interest rate a half-percentage point to 2.5%, traders said developments in Kosovo hold the key for future euro movement. 

 But Friday's session showed that the euro may not move significantly unless developments turn extremely dire. Headlines during that session saying Russia was targeting North Atlantic Treaty Organization countries in a possible retaliation against attacks in Yugoslavia were shrugged off by European traders. 

 A surprise decision by Sweden's finance minister to resign - announced Monday - sent the Swedish krona sharply lower against the euro. At 1015 GMT, the euro was at SEK8.9950, up from SEK8.9720 in early morning dealing and SEK8.9230 late Friday. 

 -By Chip Cummins; 44-171-832-8027;chip.cummins@dowjones.com 

 (END) Dow Jones Newswires 12-04-99 

 1038GMT 

1035 44462

Document dji0000020010826dv4c02rap




 Salomon, Compaq -2: Firm Cuts '99 View 79c, To $1.14/Shr>CPQ 

110 words
12 April 1999
14:31
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Salomon Smith Barney cut its rating on Compaq Computer Corp. (CPQ) to neutral from buy, according to a research note. 

 Analyst Richard Gardner also cut his earnings estimates on Compaq, which issued a profit warning Friday afternoon. The analyst cut his 1999 earnings forecast to $1.14 a share from $1.93 a share, according to the research note. 

 These estimate cuts "reflect our belief that gross margins and (average computer selling prices) will continue to trend down going forward," the note says. 

 (END) DOW JONES NEWS  04-12-99 

 09:31 AM 

Document dj00000020010826dv4c0261m




 Compaq Seen Leading PC Stocks Down At Open >CPQ 

 By Christopher Grimes 
342 words
12 April 1999
14:16
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Technology stocks should fall Monday in the wake of Compaq Computer Corp.'s (CPQ) first-quarter profit warning. 

 The company blamed weakness in the commercial PC industry. Speaking to Dow Jones Sunday, Compaq Chief Executive Eckhard Pfeiffer said the PC market was weaker than industry forecasts, which led to a competitive pricing environment. 

 Late Friday, the company said it would likely earn 15 cents a share in the March-ending period on sales of $9.4 billion. Respectively, that's 17 cents a share and as much as $400 million lower than some estimates. Compaq will officially report results April 21. 

 According to Reuters' Instinet, computer-related shares were down in premarket trading. Compaq changed hands at 24 1/8, down from the Friday close of 30 15/16. Intel shares, which split Monday, were trading at 62 5/8, down from Friday's close of 65 13/32. 

 Dell Computer Corp. (DELL) shares were trading at 41 1/4, Instinet said, down from the previous close of 43 9/16. Gateway Inc. (GTW) was off slightly, trading at 71 from the previous close of 72 3/4. 

 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) shares were trading at 181 1/2, down from Friday's close of 186 5/16. And Hewlett-Packard Corp. (HWP) shares were trading at 66 1/2, down from Friday's close of 69 5/8. 

 William Milton, an analyst at Brown Brothers Harriman, said the market will look to Intel's earnings release Tuesday to see whether Compaq's problems were felt industry-wide in the first quarter. He cut his earnings estimates on Compaq to $1.20 a share from $1.70 a share for 1999; his rating on the stock is under review. 


Other analysts cut their ratings on the stock, including Morgan
Stanley Dean Witter, which reduced its opinion to neutral from
outperform.
Christopher Grimes (201) 938-5253



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  04-12-99



09:16 AM


Document dj00000020010826dv4c025yi




 Technology & Health 
 Digital, Sales Strategies Hit Compaq, Analysts Say 

 By Gary McWilliams 
Staff Reporter
875 words
12 April 1999
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
13
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 Though Compaq Computer Corp. blames weaker-than-expected sales in saying that its first-quarter profit will be less than half Wall Street's projections, some analysts are questioning the PC maker's ability to manage hyper-competition while melding operations with Digital Equipment Corp. 

 Compaq, which in February warned of slackening demand for its PCs, dropped the other shoe on Friday, saying that heightened competition and disappointing sales of its most-profitable computers will result in net income of $250 million, or 15 cents a share, for the quarter ended March 31. 

 That is well below the already-lowered consensus estimate of $560 million, or 32 cents a share, held by Wall Street analysts. Revenue was projected at $9.4 billion, $100 million to $400 million below analysts' projections. 

 In the first quarter of 1998, Compaq posted a profit of $60 million, or one cent a share. 

 The 1999 warning, which came after financial markets closed on Friday, triggered a sell-off of computer stocks in after-market trading. Traders reported heavy selling of Compaq at between $26 to $27 a share; the stock had climbed 4.4% to $30.9375 in composite New York Stock Exchange trading, up $1.3125. Intel and Dell also traded as much as $4 below their closing prices. 

 "Techs in general will be significantly softer on the opening" today, predicted Ciaran T. O'Kelly, the managing director of equity trading at Salomon Smith Barney Inc. 

 The profit warning shocked many analysts who had come to believe that Compaq's silence until Friday indicated profits were on track. Several analysts attributed Compaq's problems to the integration of Digital Equipment, which Compaq acquired in June 1998. "The company has overstated the DEC synergies," said Ashok Kumar, an analyst with US Bancorp Piper Jaffray Inc. 

 "Compaq said there was lower demand; everything we see says differently," said Charles R. Wolf, a Warburg Dillon Read analyst. Indeed, a day before Compaq's announcement, rival Dell Computer Corp. called PC demand healthy across all geographic, product and customer segments. 

 Instead, Mr. Wolf says, "There are two issues here: Integrating DEC and the misguided steps the company took last fall" to sell directly to businesses. Compaq's need to add dealer incentives for products intended to be sold directly contributed to margin declines, he said. 

 Compaq blamed "lower-than-anticipated market demand and increased competitive pricing in the commercial PC sector." A spokesman declined to elaborate and declined to make an executive available. Financial results will be released on April 21. 

 The timing of this latest problem couldn't be worse for Compaq's chief executive officer, Eckhard Pfeiffer, who has been struggling to turn around the Houston PC maker's fortunes for more than a year. This week, Mr. Pfeiffer opens a weeklong show designed to tell customers about Compaq's products and operations. He has invited 4,000 executives from the company's biggest customers, including Ford Motor, Nippon Steel and Nestle, to hear how Compaq can help them adapt to the tremendous changes spurred by the Internet. 

 Instead, Mr. Pfeiffer is apt to face embarrassing questions over the miscues in his own business -- mistakes that rivals have used to outmuscle Compaq. "To come out on the ninth of April and announce you've missed the quarter by 50% represents a huge credibility problem," says Mr. O'Kelly of Salomon Smith Barney. 

 The earnings problems suggest sales of big computers acquired through the acquisitions of Digital Equipment and Tandem Computers continue to fall, analysts say. Sales of the high-priced machines, which carry gross margins at least double those of PCs, aren't salvaging the PC-margins drop. Compaq's product gross margin is expected to be about 22.5% for the quarter, similar to Dell and Gateway Inc., which don't offer minicomputers. 

 Analysts say the shortfall probably will lead Compaq to expand the cutbacks now under way and force the company to re-evaluate its direct-sales efforts. Last year, Compaq said it would cut about 19,000 jobs from the combined companies and close several duplicate facilities. 

 "Compaq claimed all along it wouldn't be structurally disadvantaged once DEC got absorbed," says Louis J. Mazzucchelli Jr., an analyst at Gerard Klauer Mattison. "Now we may see them challenging that assumption." 

 Compaq said it will continue an "aggressive drive" to cut costs and operating expenses in a "very competitive market." 

 The company's sales network, which includes retailers, dealers, direct sales and distributors, also could come under new scrutiny. Two weeks ago, Compaq disclosed it would make its five-month-old Prosignia PC line, designed for direct sales via the Internet and telephone, available through retail stores. The move only complicated the company's distribution efforts, critics say. "If you want to make sure you are getting the best Compaq price, you have to shop four (sales) channels," Mr. Mazzucchelli says. 

 In 1998, Compaq similarly warned of below-par sales during the first quarter. It suffered operating losses during the first half of the year as the company was forced to provide sales incentives on as much as $500 million in excess dealer inventories. 

Document wsje000020010830dv4c0074y




 Belgian Bel-20 seen off after Compaq warning. 

338 words
12 April 1999
10:36
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 BRUSSELS, April 12 (Reuters) - The Bel-20 blue chip index was expected to open weaker on Monday after a profit warning from U.S. computer maker Compaq  pushed Far Eastern and European markets lower. 

 Compaq said late on Friday its first quarter profits would be around half those expected by the market, prompting an after-hours sell-off of U.S. computer and software stocks. 


In Tokyo the Nikkei	   ended down 2.07 percent while Hong Kong's Hang Seng was off 1.47 percent.



"We think the profit warning from Compaq will have a generally negative influence," said analyst Stefaan Casteleyn at Bank Corluy. "The dollar is weaker than before, which will also be negative.



The dollar was softer against the euro	  in early Europe amid sliding S&P stock future contracts, as the market tipped U.S. shares to open weaker.
By 0730 GMT pre-opening bids indicated the Bel-20 index to open down around 0.6 percent, while German blue chips	    turned positive after recouping earlier losses of more than half a percent. The Dutch index	  was slightly down.



But despite generally weak sentiment, Casteleyn said investors could continue to focus on cyclical stocks such as steel cord and wire maker Bekaert , chemicals group Solvay , cement maker CBR  and non-ferrous metals group Union Miniere .



"What we continue to see is people in Europe generally going more into cyclical stocks, especially after the interest rate cut," he said.



* Telinfo  was seen stronger after it announced a capital expansion worth 150 million euros, or 18 percent of its current capitalisation, to fund expansion in Germany, Switzerland, Italy or Spain.



"This shows again that Telinfo is one of the more dynamic stocks in Belgium. But maybe it will not have an immediate effect as people will want to study the details," Casteleyn said. ((Alistair Thomson, Brussels newsroom +32 2 287 6810, fax +32 2 230 7710, belgium.newsroom@reuters.com)).



(C) Reuters Limited 1999.


Document lba0000020010908dv4c037ua




 INTERVIEW-Compaq CEO blames price wars for Q1 miss. 

 By Eric Auchard 
882 words
12 April 1999
10:26
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, April 11 (Reuters) - Weak business computer demand, stepped-up price competition and a drive to shore up its No. 1 market position led to Compaq Computer Corp.'s  impending revenue shortfall, its CEO said on Sunday. 

 In a phone interview, President and Chief Executive Eckhard Pfeiffer elaborated on Compaq's announcement on Friday that first-quarter revenues would add up to only $9.4 billion, or 6 percent less than the $10 billion Wall Street forecast. 

 Compaq said in a statement on Friday that it expected to post a profit of about 15 cents per share, far below the analysts' consensus estimate of 31 cents a share found in a prior survey by First Call Inc. 

 Pfeiffer would not comment on how a 6 percent decline in top-line revenues could translate into a 50 percent drop in profits. Compaq is still calculating how PC price cuts and lower margins will affect Compaq's bottom line, he said. 

 "When demand is not as strong as expected ... (and) if you intensify some of your pricing ... that in turn does not only have a margin impact, but a sales impact," Pfeiffer said of the trickle down-effect on Compaq's results last quarter. 

 The profit warning appeared ready to knock the wind out of many computer stocks on Monday, just ahead of the kick-off to the sector's first quarter reporting season, analysts said. 

 But a deep sell-off could be averted because Compaq's woes have been one of Wall Street's worst kept secrets - the company had let word slip in late February that only a strong March month could offset sales weakness early in the year. 

 Pfeiffer said brutal competition in the commercial personal computer market had forced Compaq to make deep price cuts on some computer lines in order to maintain market share, which in turn had dampened profit margins and revenues. 

 Industry-wide, PC makers have seen their profits squeezed by the explosive demand among consumers for computers priced below $1,000 and accelerating pressure on Compaq and other PC makers to sell their machines for $500 or less. 

 Compaq has also been struggling over how to increase sales of PCs directly via the Web to home and business customers instead of relying largely on networks of sales distributors. 

 "In order to not lose market share ... it may cost you another point or two and all of a sudden you are below the target," Pfeiffer said, referring to a drop in profit margins as a percentage of revenues. 

 Many analysts see the issues involved in the company's projected revenue and profit shortfall as specific to Compaq, not industry concerns: weakness in its commercial PC sales and conflicts stirred up by selling its PCs via the Internet. 

 Despite the shortfall, Pfeiffer declared: "Nothing else has changed at the company. We have a lot of momentum." He said, for example, that Compaq is continuing its effort to streamline PC production and distribution. 

 "I think it is clear that the PC market ... has not been as strong as originally expected," Pfeiffer said of the first quarter ended in March. He withheld comment on specific factors until Compaq reports final results on April 21. 

 "There (have) been some significant changes ... which all PC suppliers have experienced," he said. 

 Pfeiffer said Compaq was on track in continuing to make "very aggressive cost reductions" in the wake of last June's $8.4 billion acquisition of Digital Equipment Corp., a business computer and services supplier. 

 "As far as costs go we have met the targets as far as expense reductions," Pfeiffer said of his commitments to Wall Street to achieve cost savings by integrating the two companies and eliminating duplicate operations. 

 "We have met the targets through the first quarter," he said, noting the time it takes to merge thousands of new employees into an organisation and train them properly. 

 But trouble for the world's No. 1 personal computer maker spells trouble for the industry, because weak PC demand translates into fewer computer chips, disk drives and software packages sold. Compaq's warning is likely to heighten investor fears of further price competition, pressing down other PC stocks. 

 Compaq stock plunged nearly $5 in after hours trading late on Friday to $26, while Intel Corp. , the principal supplier of computer chips that form the brains of Compaq PCs, fell more than $4 to $126.25 from a close of $130.81. 

 Software maker Microsoft Corp.  slipped to $92.75 from $94.25. PC rivals Dell  fell to $40.125 from a close of $43.54 in Nasdaq activity, while Gateway sunk to $72.50 from its close of $74.69 in composite U.S. stock market trading. 

 US Bancorp Piper Jaffray analyst Ashok Kumar, who predicted a Compaq shortfall weeks ago, cautioned against wholesale selling of technology stocks. "It's a company specific issue, not an industry one," he said. 

 Still, Kumar counts himself among the Wall Street analysts who, despite Compaq's projected near-term troubles, have argued recently that Compaq stock under $30 looks very cheap compared to the shares of other computer makers. 

 ((-Eric Auchard, New York newsdesk, 212-859-1840)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4c036qg




 FOCUS-Compaq stock slides after  profit warning . 

 By Eric Auchard 
871 words
12 April 1999
22:55
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, April 12 (Reuters) - Shares of Compaq Computer Corp.  sank 25 percent on Monday, after the world's largest personal computer maker warned first-quarter results would fall far short of Wall Street expectations, but the broader U.S. stock market shrugged off the news. 

 The Houston-based company's shares tumbled $6.88 Monday to close at $24.06, down $6.88 from Friday's close, but up from a Monday session low of $23.13. The swoon sent a shiver through stocks of key Compaq suppliers like computer chip maker Intel Corp.  and software giant Microsoft Corp. 

 But fears of a much-wider sell-off in the U.S. technology sector - which had rattled stock markets worldwide overnight - failed to materialise, with investors seeing Compaq's troubles concentrated in selected parts of the hard-fought PC market. 

 The sell-off came after Compaq disclosed late on Friday that it expected first-quarter revenues to fall 6 percent short of already lowered brokerage expectations, and that earnings per share would come in more than 50 percent below the consensus. 

 Compaq officials said results suffered from slow demand for commercial PCs worldwide, especially in North America and to a lesser degree in Europe, the regions where it generates most of its sales. Asia sales stabilised, after a long downturn, they said. 

 Eckhard Pfeiffer, Compaq's president and chief executive, told analysts and reporters in a conference call Monday that his company's shortfall was part of "an industry-wide problem of very intensive competitive pricing." 

 Besides brutal price competition with other PC makers, the company had also seen an unfavourable shift toward selling more lower-margin PCs and related items like monitors and printers, and away from higher-margins PCs. 

 Aiming to lessen the sting, Pfeiffer repeatedly declared that, "While market conditions may continue to be competitive ... we fully intend to expand our business and grow market share profitably in 1999." 

 The severity of Compaq's warning jarred many analysts. Underlying their concerns was the growing view that it was becoming impossible to make money in the industry as PC prices plummet to $500 and below, despite the benefit of this trend to consumers. 

 "The shortfall is far worse than the ranges that we thought were probable," Morgan Stanley Dean Witter analyst Gillian Munson wrote in a research note to investors. 

 US Bancorp Piper Jaffray analyst Ashok Kumar, who predicted Compaq's warning three weeks ago, advised investors not to read too much into the company's troubles. "Compaq's shortfall is not representative of the health of the industry," he said. 

 While both Compaq and overall PC industry shipments are expected to decline sharply in the seasonally slow first-quarter period compared with the holiday-fuelled fourth quarter, he said, shipments from rival PC maker Dell Computer Corp. should grow, for example, while others are flat. 

 On Friday, Compaq estimated first-quarter earnings per share of about 15 cents, sharply below Wall Street's estimate of 31 cents, according to a survey of brokerage forecasts conducted by First Call Corp. 

 The company said revenues would add up to $9.4 billion, or 6 percent less than the $10 billion average Wall Street forecast. 

 Compaq let word slip in late February that only a strong March could offset sales weakness in January and February. The warning triggered a sharp sell-off in the stock on Feb. 26 and weighed down Compaq's share price since then. 

 On Monday, Compaq became the fifth most actively traded issue in New York Stock Exchange history in terms of a single day, with more than 79 million shares changing hands. Occidental Petroleum holds the record from 1988, when 103 million shares traded hands on the New York market. 

 All told, some 111 million Compaq shares were traded on all U.S. stock markets. 

 But in press interviews and calls to analysts, Pfeiffer would not offer specifics on how a 6 percent decline in revenues could translate into a 50 percent drop in profits. 

 Compaq is still calculating how PC price cuts and lower margins will affect its bottom line, he said. Official results for the first-quarter will be published on April 21. 

 Compaq officials reiterated that merger and cost-cutting efforts stemming from the company's $8.4 billion acquisition last year of Digital Equipment Corp. remain on track, and that no new restructuring plans in the works. 

 In addition, Pfeiffer said the company's "enterprise" business, which delivers large computer systems and technical services to corporate and government customers, "has been pretty much on target." Compaq, the world's No. 1 personal computer maker, has been seeking to expand its role in serving large corporate customers with its acquisition of Digital. 

 Separately on Monday, Compaq announced an alliance with Lucent Technologies Inc., the world's largest supplier of telecommunications equipment, to sell Compaq computers alongside Lucent phone and Internet messaging equipment. 

 The computer maker's tumultuous day came ahead of a two-day meeting that its is holding on Tuesday at its headquarters to unveil its latest strategies in the corporate market. 

 ((-Wall Street Desk, 212-859-1730)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4c036lw




 Eurobonds see flurry of fresh high-grade supply. 

604 words
12 April 1999
15:28
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 1345 GMT Top quality borrowers dominated Monday's eurobond new issues market as fears of further selling of U.S. equities after a profit warning from Compaq Computer  weighed on credit sentiment. 

 ** The European Investment Bank, Europe's leading non-government borrower, launched its first benchmark dollar bond this year. 

 ** Triple A-rated German mortgage bank DT Hyp-DT Hypothekenbank lauched its first euro-denominated jumbo Pfandbrief. 

 ** Emerging market bonds moved lower in active secondary trading, depressed by weaker global equity markets and fears of an escalation in tension between NATO and Russia. 

 DETAILS AND BACKGROUND FOLLOW LONDON, April 12 (Reuters) - A cautious tone dominated Monday's Eurobond market after equity markets were hit by a profit warning from Compaq - the world's no 1 computer maker - after close of trading on Friday. 

 High-yielding bonds issued by high-tech companies were marked up to half a point lower while demand for emerging market debt was also undermined by fears of an escalation in tension between NATO and Russia over military action in Yugoslavia. 

 SOVEREIGN AND SUPRANATIONAL BORROWERS 

 The European Investment Bank, the funding arm of the European Union, launched its first dollar benchmark bond of the year, a $1.0 billion bond due December 2004. 

 Bankers said the deal had been driven by strong demand out of Asia for top-rated medium-dated paper. 

 "The deal was driven by strong demand for high-quality dollar paper particularly from Asian central banks," said an official at ABN Amro, joint lead manager with Merrill Lynch. "Now interest rates in the eurozone have been cut, investor interest is swinging back to the dollar market." 

 The EIB is likely to keep proceeds from the bond offering in dollars, he said. 

 The bonds will be priced on Tuesday to give a spread of around 42 basis points over the U.S. Treasury benchmark. 

 The EIB's decision to launch a benchmark dollar bond just weeks after unveiling a new euro benchmark programme - known as the Euro-Area Reference Note Facility (EARNs) - surprised some in the market. But officials at the lead managers said the dollar bond had been issued by a separate part of the bank and that a new euro-denominated benchmark was also likely in the near future. 

 EMERGING MARKETS 

 Fears of further U.S. stock market losses and escalating tension between NATO and Russia over airstrikes in Yugoslavia halted last week's rally in both Russian and Latin American bond prices. 

 Expectations of new bond issuance from Latin American sovereigns - notably Brazil - did little to lift the tone. Bankers speculated that sizeable new issuance in current fragile conditions would send secondary market premiums higher. 

 The price of Brazil's benchmark global dollar bonds fell around one point. At 1330 GMT, Brazil's benchmark bond due 2027 was down 1.25 points at 75.25-bid, 76.125 offered. 

 Russian Eurobonds also bore the brunt of investor jitters. Shorter-dated issues fell up to two points, while longer-dated issues were around one point lower. 

 Profit-taking after a strong emerging market debt rally last week compounded Monday's losses, bankers said. 

 ASSET-BACKED BONDS 

 U.K. property company British Land Co Plc  announced plans for a 1.54 billion sterling multi-tranche securitisation of its Broadgate office complex in London. The deal, which will be lead-managed by Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, will be one of the largest sterling transactions ever launched. 

 ((Christina Fincher, London Newsroom +44 171 542 7748 fax +44 171 542 8688, uk.eurobonds.news@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4c035r0




 Toronto stocks down 1 pct at open. 

460 words
12 April 1999
15:54
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited


		    CHANGE			  CHANGE
TSE300     6819.13  -70.64 HI 6819.13	   LO 6819.13
DJIA	10112.51  -61.33 GOLD (LONDON)   US$282.70 +2.10
FTSE	6409.00  -63.80 GOLD (COMEX)   US$284.20 +2.70



NIKKEI    16507.40 -348.23 LME CASH NICKEL US$4930    +19



CANDLR	1.4961	LME CASH ALUM   US$1256.5 +10.75



CAN 30-YR   139.90  +0.51 BRENT CRUDE    US$14.79   -0.07



--------------------MARKET COMMENT-------------------------



* Toronto stocks opened more than 1 percent lower on Monday as



equity markets suffered following a profit warning from Compaq.



* Gold sector up 3 percent to buck the negative trend.



TORONTO, April 9 (Reuters) - Toronto stocks fell in line with most major markets, slipping more than 1 percent at the open of trading on Monday after a profit warning from one of the world's largest computer makers put a chill into the market.



The Toronto Stock Exchange 300 Composite Index dropped 70.64 points, or 1.03 percent, to 6819.13. Volume was 19.3 million shares worth C$128.7 million. Decliners topped advancers 276 to 216 with another 203 issues unchanged.



The blue chip S&P/TSE 60 was off 5.02 points, or 1.2 percent, at 404.78.



In New York, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was off 61.33 points, or 0.6 percent, at 10112.51.



A profit warning from U.S. technology giant Compaq Computer Corp.  late on Friday sent a shiver through the market. The computer-maker said it expects first-quarter earnings to fall well short of Wall Street expectations.



Despite the drop caused by Compaq, traders saw the decline as a healthy pause in the market, which gained 4 percent last week.



"This is quite constructive actually," said David Jarvis, a liability trader at Levesque Beaubien Geoffrion. "This is a little fear and loathing."



Overall in Toronto, 12 of the TSE 300's 14 subindexes opened lower, led by a 2.2-percent dip in the utilities sector and a 2.1-percent fall in the industrial products sector.



In the utilities group, telephone giant BCE Inc.  was down C$0.70 to C$74.25. In the industrial products sector, Newbridge Networks Corp. was off C$0.95 at C$48.20.



Bucking the negative trend was the gold and precious minerals group, which was up 3 percent as the price for an ounce of gold in New York rose $2.70 to $284.20.



Gold miner Barrick Gold Corp.  was up C$0.75 to C$26.05.



($1=$1.50 Canadian)



((Scott Anderson, Reuters Toronto Newsroom, 416 941-8106, toronto.newsroom@reuters.com)).



(C) Reuters Limited 1999.


Document lba0000020010908dv4c035oi




 U.S. dollar swap spreads narrow amid stock rally. 

436 words
12 April 1999
22:05
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 CHICAGO, April 12 (Reuters) - U.S. dollar swap spreads pulled back in quiet trade as U.S. stocks bounced back strongly from early losses, dealers said. 

 Swap spreads widened early Monday on overnight and opening weakness in the U.S. equities market, said an East Coast dealer. But activity was thin and spreads pulled back as stocks rebounded to close at record highs. 

 Technology shares, pressured by Compaq's  earnings warning, led stocks lower early in the day. Compaq, the world's largest personal computer maker, said late Friday it expects a first quarter profit of about $0.15 a share, about half Wall Street's expectations. 

 Blue chips rebounded by midday, suggesting investors believed the Compaq warning represented troubles in the personal computer industry and not the overall market, analysts said. 

 Most swap spreads narrowed as stocks cut losses and bounced into positive territory, the dealer said. 

 "Stocks came back hard and there was a little bit of corporate selling of the spreads in the five-year sector where there was someone sniffing around to do some size," he said. "The spreads had come off maybe a basis point from their morning highs." 

 Despite the stock-driven fluctuations, overall swaps trade was extremely thin Monday, traders said. 

 "Other than the one player looking to unload 250-500 fives, it was very, very, very quiet," the dealer said. 

 Among potential swap candidates Monday was the European Investment Bank's $1.0 billion five-year bond. Bank officials could not be reached for comment on whether the deal would be swapped from fixed-to floating-rate. 

 The Inter-American Development Bank (IADB) plans to launch a $1.0 billion 10-year fixed-rate global bond soon, a bank official said, but it will not be swapped to floating-rate. 

 "Like all other issuers of our size with a $9 billion programme, we're constantly talking to everybody in the market looking for opportunities," said Steve Abrahams, IADB's chief of capital markets. "We've been wanting to do a large-size dollar issue in fixed rate for some time and we're just sort of waiting for the markets to get a little bit better and to improve." 

 Ten-year swap spreads ended steady at 77 basis points mid-market, but spreads in most other sectors tightened. 

 Seven-year spreads finished at 70-1/4, five-years at 63-1/4, three-years at 55 and two-years at 47. 

 ((Allyson Hall, Chicago Derivatives Desk 312-408-8750 chicago.derivatives.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4c035j3




 FOCUS-Compaq stock slides on  profit warning . 

436 words
12 April 1999
16:30
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, April 12 (Reuters) - Shares of Compaq Computer Corp. , the world's largest personal computer maker, fell 23 percent on Monday, after the company warned its first-quarter profits and revenues would fall short of Wall Street estimates. 

 The Houston-based company's shares traded at $24.38 on Monday morning, off $6.68 from Friday's close, but up from the session low of $23.13. The shares were by far the most active on the New York Stock Exchange on volume of almost 39 million. 

 Several Wall Street analysts on Monday downgraded their ratings on Compaq. Goldman Sachs lowered it to market performer, BancBoston Robertson Stephens cut the stock to buy and Morgan Stanley cut the stock to neutral. 

 On Friday, Compaq predicted first-quarter earnings per share of about 15 cents, sharply below Wall Street's estimate of 31 cents, according to a First Call Inc.'s survey. 

 On Sunday, President and Chief Executive Eckhard Pfeiffer said first-quarter revenues would add up to $9.4 billion, or 6 percent less than the $10 billion Wall Street forecast. 

 Weak business computer demand, stepped-up price competition and a drive to shore up its No. 1 market position led to Compaq's impending shortfall, Pfeiffer said. 

 Compaq had let word slip in late February that only a strong March month could offset sales weakness early in the year. Still, analysts were jarred by the severity of Compaq's warning. 

 "The shortfall is far worse than the ranges that we thought were probable," Morgan Stanley analyst Gillian Munson wrote in a research brief. 

 "We were surprised by the magnitude, especially regarding gross margin," said Michael Kwatinetz of Credit Suisse First Boston. In a note, he lowered his estimate of Compaq's 1999 gross margin to 25.7 percent from 28 percent. Kwatinetz kept his rating on Compaq's shares at buy. 

 BancBoston Robertson Stephens analyst Daniel Niles, who cut his estimate of the company's 1999 earnings per share to $1.90 from $1.05, noted that he sees the giant PC maker migrating its business over to more services and Internet-related revenues. 

 Morgan Stanley's Munson echoed that sentiment. 

 "The shortfall indicates that Compaq's business model is not working in this market environment," she wrote. "It will take some time, in our view, for the stock to come back from this disappointment and the related loss of confidence." 

 Compaq said final results for the first quarter will be reported on April 21. 

 ((-Franklin Paul, Wall Street Desk, 212-859-1730)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4c0358w




 FOCUS-Compaq warning staggers Asian markets. 

 By Clarence Fernandez 
639 words
12 April 1999
12:37
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 SINGAPORE, April 12 (Reuters) - Tokyo shares lost two percent on Monday after an earnings warning by U.S. computer giant Compaq  spooked Asian markets. 

 Fearing U.S. stocks would crumble on the news, investors also drove Hong Kong shares down 1.42 percent by day's end, while Australian stocks fell 0.7 percent. 

 "Everybody is looking at the Dow coming down 100 points or something," said Eric Gale, senior institutional dealer at Australian bluechip broker Ord Minnett. 

 Compaq warned late on Friday its first quarter profit per share would be around US$0.15, roughly half of market forecasts, sparking fears of a weak reporting season for the whole sector. 

 Tokyo's key Nikkei 225 average closed down 2.07 percent or 348.23 points at 16,507.40 as Compaq's warning dampened recent buying euphoria, traders said. 

 Tokyo investors were watching to see if the announcement by the world's biggest personal computer maker would have any serious impact on New York stocks. 

 "Due to recent overheating, the (Tokyo) stock market reacted nervously to the negative news," said Mamoru Shimode, a strategist at Deutsche Securities Ltd. "People will wait and see how the U.S. market performs tonight." 


S&P 500 futures	   traded on Globex slipped sharply in the wake of Compaq's warning after New York's Friday close.



The fall prompted sales in high-technology shares in Tokyo on fears of a setback in technology stocks if New York weakens.



The dollar stood at 120.52/55 yen in late afternoon trade as fears grew over the near-term outlook for U.S. share prices.



Australia's All Ordinaries index	   closed 21.8 points lower at 3,038.2.



"It's an opportunity for people to take some profits, but there's still positives out there and the market should be able to resume the rally that we've had," said dealer Michael Baker of Henderson Charlton Jones.



Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index finished down 1.42 percent at 11,744.74 after hitting a morning low of 11,638.88 points.



"The profit warning by Compaq is potentially going to cause a correction on the U.S. market, and people aren't putting in buy orders today," said Tom Hester, regional head of Asian equity sales at ING Barings in Hong Kong.



Singapore's Straits Times index was down 0.24 percent at 1,661.28 by 0915 GMT after a choppy morning session that saw it swing between positive and negative turf, traders said.



There was good interest in selected blue chips like Singapore Airlines' foreign  shares, dealers said.



In Seoul, foreign buying of select large-cap shares outweighed institutions' profit-taking to drive the composite index up 0.32 percent to 689.64 points, its highest close since September 18, 1997, when it ended at 701.39, traders said.



"The focus on financial shares managed to offset earlier losses from profit-taking," said Park Key-pyeong, a fund manager at Hanyang Securities Co.



Taiwan shares weakened 0.32 percent to close at 7,242.40 while Bangkok shares edged up 0.19 percent to 371.26 by 0830 GMT.



Manila shares jumped 2.48 percent to finish at 2,157.08, as investors ignored regional losses after the central bank on Friday announced this year's ninth cut in key overnight rates.



Karachi stocks lost nearly 2.72 percent to 994.07 by 0915 GMT on investor fears India's new missile test would raise tension in the region, but dealers said scope for a major fall was limited.



India said on Sunday it had successfully test-fired a longer-range version of its Agni ballistic missile, ending a five-year restraint on the controversial weapon.



(C) Reuters Limited 1999.


Document lba0000020010908dv4c03491




 FOCUS-Caution steers Asian stocks back from rally. 

 By Ritsuko Ando 
474 words
12 April 1999
10:57
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 SINGAPORE, April 12 (Reuters) - Most Asian stock markets fell back in early trade on Monday as bullish sentiment gave way to a cautious assessment of recent rises. 


Tokyo's Nikkei 225 average	   retreated 1.66 percent to 16,575.07 after last week's five day rally, and Hong Kong sharess traded down 1.13 percent by 0455 GMT.


 "A bit of a correction is natural and not a bad thing. There are no new incentives in the market. It's time to take a breather for a day or two," said Jeremy Markwick-Smith, a salesman at Paribas Capital Markets in Tokyo. 

 Investors also turned cautious as a profit warning from U.S. computer maker Compaq Computer Corp  late on Friday suggested a weaker Dow and eroded confidence in the next U.S. reporting season. 

 S&P 500 futures traded on Globex fell sharply after Compaq announced its first quarter earnings per share would be around US$0.15, less than half of most analysts' forecasts. 

 The Nikkei's decline added to downward pressure in Hong Kong, where investors were already looking to take profits after last week's strong rally. 


The Hang Seng Index	  weakened to 11,779.30 against Friday's close at 11,914.10.



Australian shares came off early lows by midday but remained weak as investors fretted over the Dow's reaction to Compaq's profit-warning.



By 0455 GMT, the All Ordinaries index	   slipped 0.58 percent to 3,042.2. New Zealand stocks closed 1.37 percent down at 2,141.26.
The Korea Composite Stock Price Index	   retreated 0.10 percent to 686.74 after hitting a high of 700.44 in early trade.



Brokers in Seoul said investment trust companies had taken short-term profits on blue chip shares as the key index hit the 700-point psychological barrier.



"You have to keep in mind that the index has risen more than 14 percent non-stop in the previous eight trading days," said Park Jae-hoon, a strategist at Tong Yang Securities Co.



"Investment trust companies felt safe to take short-term profits on some of their earlier purchases."



Singapore shares were mostly unchanged by the midday break, standing 0.05 percent higher after a session of shifting between gains and losses.



Taiwan shares weakened 0.32 percent to close at 7,242.40 while Bangkok shares edged up 0.18 percent to 371.29 by 0455 GMT.



Manila shares jumped 2.48 percent to finish at 2,157.08, as investors ignored regional losses after the central bank announced on Friday it would implement this year's ninth cut in key overnight rates.



Shares in Jakarta also managed gains, trading 1.29 percent higher at 426.64.



(C) Reuters Limited 1999.


Document lba0000020010908dv4c033sz




 Compaq shares slide 23 percent on  profit warning . 

228 words
12 April 1999
15:24
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, April 12 (Reuters) - Shares of Compaq Computer Corp. , the world's largest personal computer maker, fell 23 percent on Monday, after the company warned its first-quarter profits and revenues would fall short of Wall Street estimates. 

 In early trade, the Houston-based company's shares dipped to $23.75 a share, down $7.19 from Friday's close of $30.94. The shares were the most active on the New York Stock Exchange on volume of 13 million after only 20 minutes of trade. 

 Several Wall Street analysts on Monday downgraded their ratings on Compaq. Goldman Sachs lowered it to market performer, BancBoston Robertson Stephens cut the stock to buy and Morgan Stanley cut the stock to neutral. 

 On Friday, Compaq predicted first-quarter earnings per share of about 15 cents, sharply below Wall Street's estimate of 31 cents, according to a First Call Inc.'s survey. 

 On Sunday, President and Chief Executive Eckhard Pfeiffer said first-quarter revenues would add up to $9.4 billion, or 6 percent less than the $10 billion Wall Street forecast. 

 Weak business computer demand, stepped-up price competition and a drive to shore up its No. 1 market position led to Compaq's impending shortfall, Pfeiffer said. 

 ((-Franklin Paul, Wall Street Desk, 212-859-1730)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4c01reb




 Compaq  Profit Warning  Raises Queries About Its Abilities to Compete, Integrate 

 By Gary McWilliams 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
984 words
12 April 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
A3
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 Though Compaq Computer Corp. blames weaker-than-expected sales in saying that first-quarter profit will be less than half of Wall Street's projections, some analysts are questioning the PC maker's ability to manage competition while melding operations with Digital Equipment Corp. 

 Compaq, which in February warned of slackening demand for its PCs, said Friday that heightened competition and disappointing sales of its most-profitable computers will result in net income of about $250 million, or 15 cents a share, for the quarter, Compaq said. 

 That is well below the already-lowered consensus estimate of $560 million, or 32 cents a share, held by Wall Street analysts. Revenue was projected at $9.4 billion, $100 million to $400 million below analysts' projections. 

 The warning, which came after the markets closed, triggered a sell-off of computer stocks in after-hours trading. Traders reported heavy selling of Compaq at $26 to $27 a share, which had closed at $30.9375 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Intel Corp. and Dell Computer Corp. also traded as much as $4 below their closing prices. 

 Compaq's disclosure shocked many analysts who had come to believe that the company's income was on track, and several pointed to the integration of Digital Equipment, which Compaq acquired in June. "The company has overstated the DEC synergies," said analyst Ashok Kumar of US Bancorp Piper Jaffray Inc. 

 "Compaq said there was lower demand; everything we see says different," said analyst Charles R. Wolf of Warburg Dillon Read. Indeed, a day before Compaq's announcement, rival Dell called PC demand healthy, across all geographic, product and customer segments. 

 Instead, said Mr. Wolf, "there are two issues here: integrating DEC and the misguided steps the company took last fall" to sell directly to businesses. He said he believes Compaq's need to add dealer incentives for products intended to be sold directly has contributed to margin declines. 

 In an interview yesterday evening, Compaq Chief Executive Eckhard Pfeiffer insisted the profit woes were because of what he described as an about $600 million shortfall in expected sales during the period. 

 "Everyone is building expectations on certain market-demand growth. If it [demand] comes in at a somewhat lower level, the competitive reaction leads to price cuts that are deeper or more frequent. We had both these factors in the last quarter," Mr. Pfeiffer said. "This should not be completely blown out of proportion." 

 He said the company will continue to look for ways to improve production and delivery, address margin improvements and complete its absorption of Digital Equipment. Financial results will be released April 21. 

 The timing of this latest problem couldn't be worse for Mr. Pfeiffer, who has been struggling to turn around the Houston PC maker's fortunes for better than a year. This week, he opens a weeklong customer gathering designed to showcase Compaq's products and operations. He has invited about 4,000 executives from its biggest customers, including Ford Motor Co., Nippon Steel Corp., and Nestle SA, to hear how Compaq products and service can help them adapt to the changes spurred by the Internet. 

 Instead, he is apt to face questions over the miscues in his own business that rivals have used to outmuscle Compaq. "To come out on the ninth of April and announce you've missed the quarter by 50% represents a huge credibility problem," said Ciaran T. O'Kelly, managing director of equity trading at Salomon Smith Barney Inc. 

 The profit woes suggest sales of big computers acquired through the acquisitions of Digital Equipment and Tandem Computers continue to fall, analysts say. Sales of the high-priced machines, which carry gross margins at least double that of PCs, aren't salvaging the PC margins drop. Compaq's product gross margin is expected to be about 22.5% for the quarter, similar to Dell and Gateway Inc., which don't offer minicomputers. 

 Analysts say the shortfall is likely to expand the cutbacks now under way and force a re-evaluation of its direct-sales efforts. "Compaq claimed all along it wouldn't be structurally disadvantaged once DEC got absorbed. Now we may see them challenging that assumption," says Louis J. Mazzucchelli Jr., analyst at Gerard Klauer Mattison. 

 In its statement, the company said it "will continue its aggressive drive" to cut costs and operating expenses "in the face of a very competitive market." 

 Compaq's juggling of sales through dealers and through its own telephone and Internet-sales operation also could come under new scrutiny. Two weeks ago, Compaq disclosed it would make its five-month-old Prosignia PC line, designed for direct sales via the Internet and telephone, available through retail stores. The move only complicated the company's distribution, critics say. "If you want to make sure you're getting the best Compaq price, you have to shop four [sales] channels," Mr. Mazzucchelli says. 

 A year ago, Compaq similarly warned of below-par sales during the first quarter. It had operating losses during the first half of the year as the company was forced to provide sales incentives on as much as $500 million in excess dealer inventories. 

 This time, dealer inventories aren't anywhere near as high. Analyst Don Young of PaineWebber Inc. estimates resellers hold four weeks of sales on their shelves, compared with 12 weeks a year ago. However, the timing and size of Compaq's profit miss suggests the company was required to make significant price concessions on those inventories, Mr. Young said. 

 He believes the impact of selling even a small amount of discounted PCs could ripple across the industry. He said if demand doesn't accelerate by midyear, price competition will worsen as companies try to hold on to their market share. 

Document j000000020010828dv4c009w2




 Sun Healthcare Reports Wide Loss, Sees Job Cuts Rising To 10,000 

680 words
9 April 1999
14:14
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Sun Healthcare Group Inc. Friday reported a much wider-than-expected fourth-quarter loss because of changes in Medicare reimbursements and a larger-than-expected drop in demand for some services, and warned its future will continue to look rocky. 

 The nursing-home operator said its independent auditors, Arthur Andersen LLP, will include a statement expressing its concern about the company's ability to survive in its report on the company's 1998 results. 

 The company, which has been restructuring weak businesses, also said it expects to reap annual cost savings of $400 million from the elimination of 10,000 total positions and the closing or consolidation of regional and divisional units. As of the beginning of February, the company already had slashed 7,300 jobs in its rehabilitation therapy and inpatient services units, as well as several corporate positions. Before the job cuts began, the company employed about 69,000 people. 

 For the fourth quarter, Sun Healthcare posted a net loss of $761.7 million, or $13.34 a basic share, compared with a year-ago loss of $18.4 million, or 39 cents a share. 

 The latest quarter included charges totaling $804.9 million, of which $709.2 million were noncash, to pay for severance costs and a write-down for impairment of goodwill for inpatient facilities that have been hurt by the transition to a new Medicare payment system. 

 Without the charges, the company had a loss of $20.2 million, or 35 cents a share. The mean estimate of seven analysts surveyed by First Call was for a loss of 12 cents a share. Before the company issued a warning in February, analysts were looking for the company to have a profit of 19 cents a share. 

 The year-ago quarter included a loss of $19.9 million, or 42 cents a share, for the early retirement of debt. 

 Revenue climbed 15% to $780.2 million in the latest quarter. 

 For the full year, the company reported a net loss of $753.7 million, or $14.49 a share, on $3.1 billion in revenue. The full-year revenue was a pleasant surprise because Sun Healthcare had warned earlier that revenue could slip below the year-earlier level of $2.01 billion. 

 Sun Healthcare, based in Albuquerque, N.M., said the Medicare reimbursement changes have hurt demand for its services, and it will take some time for the company to recover. 

 Sun Healthcare has been restructuring operations in response to the changing market and reimbursement conditions. Under Medicare's so-called prospective payment system, or PPS, health-care providers are paid set fees for services provided, rather than reimbursement for actual costs incurred. The changes have roiled other companies in the nursing home industry as well. 

 As a result of the fourth-quarter loss, the company said it isn't in compliance with some of its credit covenants. It is working with creditors to amend its agreements. 

 Based on its results in January, Sun Healthcare said it expects 1999 therapy services revenues to decline by as much as 60%, compared to 1998 total therapy revenues. 

 Sun Healthcare said earlier this month that it would restate its results for the first three quarters of 1998 and report its year-end results later than expected because of an accounting change related to the acquisition of Retirement Care Associates Inc., which was booked as a purchase instead of a pooling of interests. Friday, the company said its results for the second quarter of 1998 now stand at a profit of two cents a share, compared with the originally reported profit of 38 cents a share; and the third-quarter shows a loss of two cents a share, compared with a previously stated profit of 20 cents a share. 

 Sun Healthcare's stock (SHG) moved lower Friday, dropping 6.3 cents, or 6.7%, to close at 87.5 cents in active trading. 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020329dv490294h




 RESEARCH ALERT - Celestial Seasonings  cut . 

60 words
9 April 1999
15:16
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, April 9 (Reuters) - Bear Stearns said Friday it lowered its rating on Celestial Seasonings Inc. to neutal from buy. 

 Celestial Seasonings on Wednesday issued a profit warning for its second quarter, citing production shortages and other issues. 

 - Shares dipped 5/16 to 17. 

 ((-Wall Street desk, 212-859-1730)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4903adt




 Computer-Services Firms Are Expected To Meet Analysts' 1st-Quarter Estimates 

 By Maria V. Georgianis 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
1,214 words
9 April 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
No Page Citation
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 NEW YORK -- Most companies that provide computer services are expected to meet -- but not beat -- analysts' first-quarter earnings estimates. 

 For some providers, the slowdown in demand for year-2000 fixes has put a damper on profit growth, while some companies' earnings have been constrained by shifts in business strategies. 

 Several companies have said they expect disappointing first-quarter results, including sector bellwether Cambridge Technology Partners Inc., as well as Intelligroup Inc., Technology Solutions Co. and SPR Inc. 

 "This quarter, companies are meeting numbers but not necessarily exceeding them," said BT Alex. Brown Inc. analyst Ed Caso. "The risk is to get more cautious guidance towards the back half of the year." 

 There is anecdotal evidence that technology spending in general will slow in the second half of 1999, Mr. Caso said. 

 Companies that provide year-2000 services expect a large drop in demand this year, as their customers have already dealt with the problem. In addition, some providers of staffing services and consulting on enterprise-resource-planning -- or ERP -- software report waning demand. 

 The slowdown in demand for some services doesn't indicate that all computer services are at risk. 

 There is a "shift in demand" to services focused on newer technologies such as electronic commerce, data warehousing and customer-relationship and supplychain management, said Warburg Dillon Read LLC analyst Moshe Katri. 

 Companies focused on emerging areas could boost first-quarter profits by 40% to 45%, Mr. Katri estimated. The slowest growers are focused on staffing and outsourcing. They are respectively expected to increase profits between 15% to 20% and between 14% to 17%, according to Mr. Katri. 

 On average, Mr. Katri expects computer-services companies to report firstquarter earnings growth of 20% to 25%. 

 Cambridge Technology Partners' profit warning was the most disappointing of the sector's estimates. Last month, the company said it expects to report first-quarter earnings between 12 cents and 14 cents a share and revenue between $148 million and $151 million. 

 The First Call Corp. consensus earnings estimate is 12 cents a share now, down from a view of 24 cents a share before the warning. In the year-earlier period, Cambridge Technology reported per-share earnings of 20 cents on revenue of $142.2 million. Analysts' consensus view for 1999 is for earnings of 68 cents a share, down from the earlier view of $1.12 a share. 

 The company blamed most of its shortfall on its reorganization. In the fourth quarter, Cambridge Technology began shifting its focus from the slowing market of custom software development to growth areas such as e-commerce. 

 Analysts expect it will take at least several quarters before this strategy pays off. The 1999 earnings consensus of 68 cents a share compares with 1998 earnings of 92 cents. 

 Keane Inc. and Computer Horizons Corp. also face transition issues. Both companies need to grow their nonyear-2000 services, since their revenue from services focused on fixing the millennium bug are expected to decline. 

 BT Alex. Brown's Mr. Caso expects Keane to report earnings of 39 cents on revenue of $292 million. Year-2000 services will account for about 31% of overall revenue and are expected to increase 15% over the prior-year quarter, Mr. Caso said. 

 Nonyear-2000 services, or 69% of the total, are expected to increase 33% over the year-earlier period. Keane needs to ramp up its application-development and outsourcing services to counteract the year-over-year declines in revenue from year2000 services expected to start in the second quarter, Mr. Caso said. 

 The First Call consensus for Keane is for earnings of 42 cents a share. In the first quarter of 1998, Keane reported earnings of 32 cents on revenue of $230 million. 

 Computer Horizons, like Keane, is also attempting to expand other services as its year-2000 prospects wane. Its focus this year is to increase revenue in areas such as Internet services, networking and customer-relationship management. 

 Warburg Dillon Read's Mr. Katri estimates Computer Horizons will earn 27 cents a share on revenue of $130 million. The First Call consensus view is 29 cents. 

 In the year-earlier quarter, Computer Horizons reported earnings of 31 cents a share, excluding a one-time charge, on revenue of $111.5 million. Including the charge, profit was 27 cents a share. 

 When it reported its fourth quarter, the company lowered its 1999 profit and revenue targets because of a faster-than-expected slowdown in its high-margin year-2000 services. 

 Many computer-services companies are turning to Internet services to improve their revenue and profit growth. This area includes designing Web sites, helping customers link older applications to the Internet, and assisting companies with e-commerce strategies. 

 Sapient Corp. is benefiting from the "insatiable demand" for Internet-related services, BT Alex. Brown's Mr. Caso said. The analyst is in line with the First Call earnings view of 23 cents and expects Sapient to report revenue of $54.2 million. In the year-earlier period, the company reported earnings of 16 cents a share on revenue of $30.7 million. 

 During the quarter, Sapient made its largest acquisition to date -- a $54.6 million stock purchase of Adjacency Inc. The acquisition, while neutral to 1999 and 2000 earnings, gives Sapient high-profile customers and more experience in e-commerce and Web site design. 

 Mr. Caso estimated Internet-related services could account for more than 50% of Sapient's first-quarter revenue, up from its 40% to 45% portion in the fourth quarter. 

 For large-cap computer-services companies Computer Sciences Corp. and Electronic Data Systems Corp., investors are more interested in what the companies have to say about the future than in their first-quarter reports. 

 Computer Sciences is expected to host an investor meeting in New York April 14. Analysts plan to press the company on its profit guidance for fiscal 2000. 

 For its 1999 fiscal fourth quarter ended April 2, the First Call consensus estimate is 71 cents. In the year-earlier period, Computer Sciences reported 59 cents, excluding a one-time charge on revenue of $1.87 billion. After charges, profit was 50 cents. 

 Merrill Lynch & Co. analyst Stephen McClellan, whose earnings-per-share prediction is in line with the First Call consensus, expects Computer Sciences' revenue to increase 16% to $2.18 billion. 

 EDS is in the midst of turning around under new Chairman Dick Brown, and investors are anticipating finding out more about how the former chief executive of Cable & Wireless PLC will reinvigorate the company. 

 The company is slated to host an investor meeting April 29. In 1999, Mr. Brown is expected to cut costs, sell unprofitable businesses and enter new markets to get EDS's bottom line growing again. 

 Mr. McClellan expects EDS to report earnings of 35 cents a share on revenue of $4.32 billion. The First Call consensus view is 36 cents a share. In the year-earlier period, EDS reported earnings of 43 cents a share, excluding charges but including a seven-cent one-time investment gain, on revenue of $3.94 billion. Including the charge, net income was 37 cents. 

Document j000000020010828dv49009he




 Tea maker Celestial sinks on warning, rating  cut . 

344 words
8 April 1999
21:26
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, April 8 (Reuters) - Shares of Celestial Seasonings Inc. , which controls roughly half the nation's herb tea market, tumbled almost 16 percent on Thursday after the company issued a profit warning and an analyst trimmed investment ratings on the tea maker. 

 Shares of Celestial Seasonings dipped 3-1/2 to 17-1/4 in heavy trading on the Nasdaq. Earlier in the session, the stock slid to a fresh 52-week low of 14, just slightly below its earlier year low of 14-1/16. The stock has a 52-week high of 31-3/4. 

 After the market closed on Wednesday, Celestial Seasonings said issues related to a new warehouse, production shortages and the timing of trade promotions would push earnings per share down to $0.28 for the second quarter, far short of Wall Street expectations. 

 "These issues resulted in a significantly greater number of orders not being shipped inb the quarter than would normally be the case," said Chief Executive Officer and President Steve Hughes in a statement. 

 "To some extent, we are likely to see increased revenues and earnings in the second half of the year as a result." 

 Analysts had expected the company to earn about $0.41 for the quarter ended March 31, according to research firm First Call Corp. The company earned $0.38 per share in the same year-earlier period. 

 Bonnie Tonneson, an analyst at Hambrecht & Quist, cut her rating on Celestial Seasonings to market perform from buy, in a research report received this morning. She predicted earnings per share in the range of $0.88 to $0.92 for the year with revenues of $115.4 million. The company posted earnings of $6.8 million, or $0.82 for share, on sales of $102.2 million last year. 

 Celestial Seasonings said second quarter revenues would edge down to about $31.6 million versus $32.3 million in the year-earlier period. 

 ((Denise Duclaux, New York Newsdesk (212) 859-1700)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4803c4o




 U.S. News Brief: Gillette Confirms 2nd-Quarter Profit Likely Will Fall; Shares Shaved 13% 

292 words
7 April 1999
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
UK5A
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 Gillette Co.'s shares plunged 13% in heavy volume, after the U.S. consumer-products maker confirmed reports its second-quarter per-share earnings will likely fall below last year's figures. The news followed Gillette's announcement late Monday that first-quarter results will be hurt by slow sales growth and are expected to be about one cent below Wall Street estimates of 25 cents a diluted share. Gillette stock fell $7.75 to $50 at the New York Stock Exchange on Tuesday, wiping about $8 billion from the company's market value. Although Gillette previously had warned of a slow start to the year after a disappointing last half of 1998, the double-barreled profit warning susprised some analysts. According to First Call, three analysts lowered their investment opinions Tuesday, and analysts trimmed their consensus forecast for the full year to $1.38 a diluted share, from $1.42. 

  A Gillette spokeswoman said that second-quarter sales will rise "in the mid single digits," and that earnings a share will "be down some from last year." The reasons for the likely profit decline, the spokeswoman said, include higher advertising expenses and the absence of one-time items, including a gain on the sale of its Jafra cosmetics unit. In the 1998 second period, the company earned 33 cents a share. Until the latest warning, analysts surveyed by First Call had been expecting per-share earnings of 35 cents in this year's second quarter. The Gillette spokeswoman wouldn't comment on any specific earnings estimates for the second quarter but said the company expects to return to faster earnings growth in the second half. (Staff) 

Document wsje000020010830dv47006p6




 Technology & Health 
 Software Firms Project Weak Earnings for Quarter 

 By Sharon Massey and Maria V. Georgianis 
Staff Reporters
663 words
7 April 1999
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
8
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 A crop of U.S. business-software companies projected disappointing first-quarter earnings, blaming the year-2000 computer glitch and other problems. 

 Aspen Technology Inc., Mapics Inc., Software AG Systems Inc. and Edify Corp. warned of profit problems in the quarter just ended, triggering steep drops in their share prices. The biggest plunge was experienced by Aspect Development Corp., whose profit warning Friday set off a 65% stock drop on Monday. 

 The companies make complex software used to automate business processes. Among other things, potential customers are delaying purchases to ensure that their existing computer systems can cope with the date change associated with the year 2000, analysts said. In some cases, the firms are also grappling with economic problems in key customer industries and troubled transitions to new products. 

 Aspen, a Massachusetts-based software firm that sells mainly to oil-related companies, projected an unspecified operating loss for its fiscal third quarter ended last Wednesday. Analysts were expecting earnings of 18 cents, according to First Call. The company projected revenue at $54 million to $55 million, compared with expectations of $66 million to $72 million. 

 The company blamed the loss on economic difficulties faced by oil companies, as well as "broad industry restructurings" that delayed software purchases. On the Nasdaq Stock Market Monday, Aspen closed at $9.9375, down $3.3125, or 25%. Tuesday afternoon it was up 6.25 cents at $10. 

 Aspect, based in California, sells software that helps electronics companies manage their components. It said it expects to post first-quarter net income between break-even and $1 million, including a one-time gain of $3 million, compared with analysts' expectations of 12 cents, according to First Call. Its stock closed Monday at $7.9375, down $14.46875, or 65%. Tuesday afternoon it was trading at $7.5625, down 37.5 cents. 

 Brian Boyer, an analyst at First Analysis Corp., said some customers are holding up purchases to evaluate new products that haven't been shipped yet. Besides software revenue, such delays hold up companies' ability to get money from services. "If you can't get out a product, you can't offer service contracts," he said. 

 Mapics, based in Atlanta, blamed a slowdown in demand on the "impending year-2000 event." The company said it expects earnings for its fiscal second quarter ended Wednesday to be below year-earlier earnings of 16 cents. A consensus of analysts had been expected earnings of 18 cents, according to First Call. On Nasdaq, Mapics closed at $4.5625, down $2.75, or 38% Monday. Tuesday afternoon, shares had fallen 37.5 cents to $4.1875. 

 Software AG, based in Vermont, also blamed softness in year-2000 work and cited a "a decline in product-license revenue." It predicted net income for the quarter of 16 cents to 18 cents a share, below the First Call consensus estimate of 21 cents. In trading Monday on the New York Stock Exchange, Software AG closed at $5.1875, down $2.1875, or 30%. Tuesday afternoon, shares had gained 81.25 cents to $6. 

 Edify, based in California, said it expects to report a first-quarter net loss of between $6 million and $6.5 million, or about 35 cents a share. Analysts had been expecting the company to report a net loss of one cent a share. Revenue rose 16% to $16 million from $13.8 million a year earlier, but was far lower than expected, the company said. 

 Edify said it experienced weaker demand for its call-center and employee-service software. Revenue from services also fell below expectations, in part because of nonbillable work associated with completing key projects, the company said. Monday on Nasdaq, Edify closed at $4.1875, down $1.3125, or 24%. Tuesday afternoon, it was trading at $4.25, up 6.25 cents. 

 --- 

 Alec Klein contributed to this article. 

Document wsje000020010830dv47006n8




 Gillette Co. Confirms Lower Earnings News; Shares Tumble 13% 

281 words
7 April 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
B9
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 BOSTON -- Gillette Co.'s shares plunged 13% in heavy volume after the consumer-products maker confirmed reports that its second-quarter per-share earnings are likely to fall below last year's figures. 

 The news follows on the heels of Gillette's announcement late Monday that first-quarter results would be hurt by slow sales growth, and were expected to be about one cent below Wall Street estimates of 25 cents a diluted share. Gillette stock closed at $50 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, down $7.75. 

 Although Gillette had previously warned of a slow start to the year after a disappointing last half of 1998, the doublebarreled profitwarning surprised some analysts. According to First Call Corp., three analysts lowered their investment opinions, and analysts trimmed their consensus estimate for the full year to $1.38 a diluted share, from $1.42 share. 

 A Gillette spokeswoman said secondquarter sales would rise "in the mid-single digits," and said earnings per share "would be down some from last year." The reasons behind the likely profit decline, she said, included higher advertising expenses and the absence of one-time items, including a gain on the sale of its Jafra cosmetics unit. 

 In 1998's second period, Gillette posted earnings of 33 cents a share. Until the latest warning, analysts surveyed by First Call had been expecting per-share earnings of 35 cents in this year's second quarter. The spokeswoman wouldn't comment on any specific earnings estimates for the second quarter, but said the company was expecting to return to faster earnings growth in the second half of the year. 

Document j000000020010828dv470092p




 Gillette Stock Sags After  Warning  That  Profit  Won't Meet Forecasts 

 By Alec Klein and Mark Maremont 
Staff Reporters
615 words
7 April 1999
The Asian Wall Street Journal
AWSJ
19
English
(c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 BOSTON -- Gillette Co. shares fell 14% midafternoon Tuesday after the company warned that first-quarter earnings will fall short of Wall Street estimates. 

 Gillette also confirmed that second-quarter results will decline from a year earlier, as the company copes with sluggish sales growth and an expected increase in advertising outlays. 

 A First Call survey of analysts had projected the razor-blade and personal-products maker to earn 25 cents a diluted share for the first quarter, up two cents from a year earlier; and 35 cents in the second quarter, up from 33 cents. Instead, Gillette said it will miss the first-quarter estimate by about a penny on lower-than-expected sales, and later added it would fail to make the second-quarter number. 

 About a week ago, Goldman, Sachs & Co. analyst Amy Low Chasen said she believed first-quarter sales were "tracking below original expectations," driving down Gillette's stock. A company spokesman said then he had no idea how the analyst could have reached such a conclusion from a conversation she had with a Gillette official. 

 On Monday, however, Gillette said that first-quarter revenue had indeed grown slower than expected, rising in the low-single-digit range because of several factors, including softness across all product lines in Latin America and weakness in the Braun small-appliance unit. The company also cited a strong dollar's effect on foreign-currency translations and the sale of its Jafra International cosmetics unit in 1998. In addition, the company said revenue was affected by the sale of its rechargeable laptop batteries business last year. 

 Moreover, because of weakness in international markets such as Russia, the company said it was forced to buy back merchandise from retailers. Gillette said it expected "normalized trade buying practices" to resume in the second half. The company plans to announce first-quarter earnings April 15. 

 The first-quarter earnings "preannouncement" came after the close of the New York Stock Exchange on Monday, when Gillette shares fell $1.50 to $57.75. The drop was attributed to plans of one of its large shareholders to sell a large block of Gillette stock. On Tuesday, Gillette shares fell $7.8125 to $49.9375 after the company confirmed that its second-quarter results will decline. 

 Analyst Constance M. Maneaty of Bear, Stearns & Co. said late Monday that she was told by Gillette officials that the company's second-quarter results would fall below the 33 cents a share posted for the year-earlier period. Gillette spokeswoman Joan Gallagher confirmed that projection Tuesday, adding that second-quarter earnings would be hit by increased advertising costs. Sales growth for the period should be in the "mid-single-digits range," she said. 

 Advertising spending will increase, Ms. Gallagher said, for its Mach 3 razors, Cross Action Oral-B toothbrushes and Duracell Ultra batteries for camcorders and other high-tech devices. 

 Gillette also said the year-earlier second quarter benefited from one-time items, including a gain from the Jafra International sale and a strong stock market that had lowered costs associated with its employee pension plan. 

 After speaking to Gillette, Ms. Maneaty said the company's revised outlook is "a bigger deal" than she initially thought after hearing the first-quarter news because "this means a slower start to their recovery." 

 "It's a disappointment," Robert Izmirlian, an analyst at S&P Equity Group, said Tuesday. "I'm struggling with this. I'm starting to become more concerned about the underlying business." 

 --- 

 Cathleen Egan of Dow Jones Newswires contributed to this story. 

Document awsj000020010825dv47008h1




 Dow opening hangs in balance after record Monday. 

385 words
6 April 1999
11:49
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, April 6 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks in London gave no clear signal as to which way Wall Street was likely to open on Tuesday following the Dow's record-breaking performance at the start of the week. 

 "There's a danger that the market will turn a little sloppy after the great run it had on Monday," said one trader. "But with Europe going great guns we might see it push a little further forward before it takes a rest." 

 June S&P Globex futures traded down 1.7 points at 1,331.7 by 1019 GMT, nudging gently above an estimated fair value of 1,331.24. 

 Telecom stocks pursued a stronger trend on the back of a report in the Wall Street Journal which said MCI WorldCom  was holding preliminary talks about buying Nextel Communications . 

 The report said the deal had no more than a 50 percent chance of reaching fruition but shares in MCI WorldCom rose $1/2 to $93 while Nextel was indicated $4 higher at $43-5/8, dealers said. 

 However, a profit warning from Gillette  may tarnish sentiment, dealers said. 

 After the U.S. market closed, Gillette said the company would miss Wall Street estimates by one cent, but remain above year-ago results. 

 The company's blades and razors business was expected to generate double-digit sales growth but weakness in the Braun business and in Latin America was likely to impact profits, Gillette said. 

 In London, the shares lightened $1-1/2 to $56-1/4. 

 "It came at the worst time," one dealer said. "Just as we are entering the first quarter earnings season." 

 Elsewhere, technology stocks which played a big part in the Dow's 1.78 percent surge on Monday, eased back amid some profit-taking. 

 IBM  was trading $3/4 lower at $183-1/8 while Intel  fell $1 to $126-1/2. 

 Dealers said Intel had been affected by a report that the company is planning to cut prices between 10 and 20 percent for most of its products next week, including its newest Pentium III chips. 

 ((Elaine Hardcastle, London Newsroom +44 171 542 4027 fax +44 171 542 2120, uk.equities.news@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4603me0




 Gillette shares are shaved at stock market open. 

 By Ian Simpson 
361 words
6 April 1999
15:44
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, April 6 (Reuters) - Shares in razor giant Gillette Co. dropped at the start of stock market trading on Tuesday, hurt by a profit warning from the company. 

 The shares were down $6, or more than 10 percent, to $51.875 in heavy trading. Gillette was the second most active issue on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 After markets closed on Monday, Gillette said its first-quarter per-share earnings would fall short of analysts' consensus forecast by about a penny. Analysts' consensus estimate is 25 cents a share, according to First Call Corp. 

 Gillette, which makes razors, Duracell batteries and other consumer products, said it was a victim of the slow international economy. Soft drink giant Coca-Cola Co.  said the same thing last month. 

 Gillette blamed weak performances in its Braun business and in Latin America. It said it was confident that international sales would strengthen by the third quarter. 

 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter cut its rating on Gillette shares to "neutral" from "outperform," a spokesman for the investment bank said. Further details were not immediately available. 

 Sally Schaadt, an analyst with Fourteen Research, said analysts were leery of the valuations of big consumer product companies like Gillette because of weak international markets. 

 "It's disappointing but it's not unexpected when you look at Latin America," she said of Gillette's profit warning. "I'm glad they told us." 

 On March 29 Coca-Cola also said it was being hurt by the slow international economy. It said it expected first quarter volume to drop in all markets except North America. Coke's shares stood at $60.31 this morning, down from $67.19 before the company's statement. 


The Morgan Stanley consumer products index	  fell 0.51 percent with the Gillette news.



Gillette's No. 2 shareholder, investment banking firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co., said last Friday that it planned to halve its stake in the company by selling 25.65 million shares.



On Monday Gillette shares fell $1.375 to $57.875. ((-Ian Simpson, Wall Street desk, (212) 859-1879)).



(C) Reuters Limited 1999.


Document lba0000020010908dv4603gzb




 Food stocks slide after Gillette  profit warning . 

317 words
6 April 1999
20:24
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 CHICAGO, April 6 (Reuters) - Shares of several food processors fell on Tuesday, after an earnings warning from shaving giant Gillette Co. sent that company's stock tumbling, analysts said. 

 "I think what we are seeing here is investors fleeing the consumer area," said Nomi Ghez, food industry analyst with Goldman Sachs. "We've had earnings pre-announcements from several very visible companies, like Coca-Cola Co.  and now Gillette. There is a feeling among investors that something is wrong in consumer-land." 

 Gillette's shares fell as analysts cut their ratings following the Boston-based company's warning that it would miss first-quarter earnings estimates by a penny. Last month, soft drink giant Coca-Cola warned of sluggish global sales. 

 "Gillette is a bellwether for consumer non-durables," said William Leach, packaged food analyst with Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. Gillette's earnings warning "reinforces the problem that many food companies have, which is slow top-line growth." 

 Shares of ConAgra Inc. , the maker of Healthy Choice foods and Wesson oil, were among the hardest hit in the food industry, falling 1-10/16 to 23-5/16 in afternoon New York Stock Exchange Trading. Shares of chocolate maker Hershey Foods Corp.  were off 2-15/16 at 52-1/4, and leading cereal maker Kellogg Co.'s  stock was down 1-3/8 at 32-5/8. 

 A spokesman for Hershey declined to comment on the stock activity, citing company policy. A ConAgra spokeswoman also declined comment. A Kellogg spokesman was not immediately available to comment. 

 "There is such sensitivity right now that stocks are reacting out of proportion," Goldman Sachs' Ghez said. "What you are seeing is investors going toward what has been working, which is financials and technology." 

 ((-Emily Kaiser, Chicago Equities News at 312 408 8787, chicago.equities.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4603g8q




 Technology & Health 
 Software Firms Expect Earnings To Fall Short 

 By Sharon Massey and Maria V. Georgianis 
Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
620 words
6 April 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
B6
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 A crop of business-software companies projected disappointing first-quarter earnings, blaming the year-2000 computer glitch and other problems. 

 Aspen Technology Inc., Mapics Inc., Software AG Systems Inc. and Edify Corp. warned of profit problems in the quarter just ended, triggering steep drops in their share prices. The biggest plunge was experienced by Aspect Development Corp., whose profit warning Friday set off a 65% stock drop in the first trading session since the announcement. 

 The companies make complex software used to automate business processes. Among other things, potential customers are delaying purchases in order to ensure that their existing computer systems can cope with the date change associated with the year 2000, analysts said. In some cases, the firms are also grappling with economic problems in key customer industries and troubled transitions to new products. 

 Aspen, a Cambridge, Mass., software firm that sells mainly to oil-related companies, projected an unspecified operating loss for its fiscal third quarter ended Wednesday. Analysts were expecting earnings of 18 cents, according to First Call. The company projected revenue at $54 million to $55 million, compared with expectations of $66 million to $72 million. 

 The company blamed the loss on economic difficulties faced by oil companies, as well as "broad industry restructurings" that delayed software purchases. On the Nasdaq Stock Market yesterday, Aspen closed at $9.9375, down $3.3125, or 25%. 

 Aspect, based in Mountain View, Calif., sells software that helps electronics companies manage their components. It said it expects to post first-quarter net income between break-even and $1 million, including a one-time gain of $3 million, compared with analysts' expectations of 12 cents, according to First Call. Its stock closed at $7.9375, down $14.46875, or 65%. 

 Brian Boyer, an analyst at First Analysis Corp., said some customers are holding up purchases to evaluate new products that haven't been shipped yet. Besides software revenue, such delays hold up companies' ability to get money from services. "If you can't get out a product, you can't offer service contracts," he said. 

 Mapics, based in Atlanta, blamed a slowdown in demand on the "impending year-2000 event." The company said it expects earnings for its fiscal second quarter ended Wednesday to be below year-earlier earnings of 16 cents. A consensus of analysts had been expected earnings of 18 cents, according to First Call. On Nasdaq, Mapics closed at $4.5625, down $2.75, or 38%. 

 Software AG, based in Reston, Va., also blamed softness in year-2000 work and cited a "a decline in product-license revenue." It predicted net income for the quarter of 16 cents to 18 cents a share, below the First Call consensus estimate of 21 cents. In composite trading yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange, Software AG closed at $5.1875, down $2.1875, or 30%. 

 Edify, based in Santa Clara, Calif., said it expects to report a first-quarter net loss of between $6 million and $6.5 million, or about 35 cents a share. Analysts had been expecting the company to report a net loss of one cent a share. Revenue rose to $16 million from $13.8 million a year earlier, but was far lower than expected, the company said. 

 Edify said it experienced weaker demand for its call-center and employee-service software. Revenue from services also fell below expectations, in part because of nonbillable work associated with completing key projects, the company said. On Nasdaq, Edify closed at $4.1875, down $1.3125, or 24%. 

 --- 

 Alec Klein contributed to this article. 

Document j000000020010828dv46008p8




 Richfood issues  profit warning  after stock falls. 

361 words
5 April 1999
23:33
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 RICHMOND, Va., April 5 (Reuters) - Richfood Holdings Inc. , the largest food wholesaler in the mid-Atlantic states and a leading grocery retailer, said Monday its fourth-quarter profit would fall short of some Wall Street estimates because of costs for protecting itself against Year 2000 computer glitches and other one-time items. 

 The announcement came after a sharp drop in its stock on the New York Stock Exchange, where it was one of the biggest losers on Monday with a 20 percent decline. Bucking a sharp rally in the broader markets, the stock finished down $3.94 at $16.19, its lowest close in six months. Its volume of 1.6 millions shares was more than 10 times its average daily turnover. 

 The Richmond, Va.-based company, whose retail division runs the Farm Fresh, Shoppers Food Warehouse and Metro grocery stores, said earnings for its current quarter ending May 1 would come in at about 52 or 53 cents per share. 

 That is 14 to 16 percent above its year-ago profit of 46 cents per share, but below the current First Call consensus estimate of 59 cents per share. In a statement, the company said some analysts had already trimmed their forecasts. 

 The company said the shortfall would reflect a disproportionate amount of spending in the current quarter on fixing its computers to avoid potential software glitches at the turn of the year. 

 Also cited were start-up costs for Pack 'N Save, its chain of smaller food stores located in downtown commercial areas, and debt payments on Trak Auto, the car parts retailer of which it owns a 67.1 percent stake. 

 Richfood Holdings said the sale of its share in Trak Auto, announced earlier, was taking longer than expected. It now expects to close the sale to HalArt LLC for $53.2 million in its fiscal first quarter starting next month. 

 Despite the warning, Richfood said that its core businesses "continue to perform well." Its wholesale division provides grocery and non-food items to chain and independent retailers. 

 ((-John Hanley, New York Newsroom +212 859 1713)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4503ln3




 WALL ST WEEK AHEAD/Goldilocks meets the Titanic. 

 By Richard Melville 
800 words
4 April 1999
21:15
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, April 4 (Reuters) - Wall Street has greeted the start of springtime with a burst of new growth, highlighted by a successful scaling of the 10,000-point mountain by the Dow Jones industrial average. 

 But even with the ideal growing conditions - strong U.S. economic growth, no inflation and a relative dearth of disappointing earnings news - many market watchers are unconvinced the landscape is clear of bear prints. 

 Seasonal factors are partly at work. The coming week is the last before the first-quarter earnings reporting season - one of Wall Street's most harrowing because it is the last chance for many companies to forewarn investors of disappointments. 

 "The biggest news on the earnings front this week could well come from pre-announcements," said Charles Hill, director of research at First Call. "This should be one of the peak weeks for the quarter." 

 This quarter that may be a misleading measure, though. By First Call's figures, corporate warnings are running well below the last three quarters, perhaps signalling an end to a down trend in earnings growth that hit bottom in the third quarter of 1998 when profits fell for the first time in seven years. 

 There have been high-profile exceptions to the overall positive tone. Coca-Cola Co. , for example, startled Wall Street by announcing it expected a decline in volume sales for the quarter. 

 Technology may hold the key for several reasons this week. Wall Street is depending the sector to produce by far the strongest growth even though it is also an area that has produced a large share of the warnings. 

 Dell Computer Corp.  will host a meeting with analysts this week, one that will get unusual attention given that several analysts have already ratcheted back growth expectations for the personal computer giant in the wake of a profit warning from competitor Compaq Computer Corp. . 

 While earnings news assumes its periodic perch on the market's pedestal, investors can take comfort that the economy and the Federal Reserve continued to cooperate last week. 

 The Fed's interest rate policy committee left rates unchanged at its meeting last week and a critical employment report on Friday appeared to validate the decision, confirming the so-called Goldilocks economy - a delicate not-too-hot, not-too-cold balance of growth without inflation - is intact. 

 The report showed unemployment dropped to 4.2 percent in March, a 29-year low, but job growth was tamer than expected and wages gave no hint of an inflation acceleration. The news drove bonds higher in a Good Friday holiday-shortened session. 

 "Basically, the numbers were comforting with nothing that hinted at inflation," said Peter Cardillo, director of research at Westfalia Investments. "That helped interest rate fears dissipate." 

 Some analysts say the fact that investors seem increasingly unwilling to buy anything but a narrow handful of stocks offers the clearest source of worry. That shift in sentiment recently triggered one of the most colourfully named of Wall Street harbingers - the Titanic indicator. 

 The indicator, as tracked by Florida-based market analysis firm Ned Davis Research, flashes a warning whenever the market reaches a new high - as happened during the Dow's advance to 10,000 - and the number of stocks hitting new lows on the New York Stock Exchange exceeds new highs by more than 100. 

 Over the last few decades, the Titanic indicator coincided with or led bear markets in 1973 and 1990 and preceded the 1987 and 1998 market downturns. However, its performance was somewhat erratic, with lead times ranging up to eight months in the case of the 1990 bear market. 

 For those inclined to eye bearishly the relative weakness of the broad market, the indicator sounded an alarm. 

 "It obviously does lead the market and while it's not telling you the market is headed straight down, it does tell you that the market has entered a dangerous zone," said Michael Murphy, money manager and editor of several newsletters. 

 Murphy cited the indicator in a recent issue of "Overpriced Stock Service," a publication aimed at short-sellers, investors who seek to profit from falling markets. Cautious on the broad market, Murphy, who also edits "California Technology Stock Letter" is actually upbeat on tech stocks. 

 "We basically follow earnings," Murphy said, adding he saw earnings growth in technology remaining comparatively robust while, "earnings in the old economy - as shown by Coke - are going to be weaker than expected." 

 The Dow industrials ended last week at 9,832.51, backtracking a bit after chalking up its first finish above the 10,000 level on March 29. 

 ((New York newsroom, 212 859-1700, fax 212 859-1717, or nyc.equities.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4403k75




 Goldilocks meets the Titanic. 

 By Richard Melville 
779 words
2 April 1999
19:59
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, April 2 (Reuters) - Wall Street has greeted the start of springtime with a burst of new growth, highlighted by a successful scaling of the 10,000-point mountain by the Dow Jones industrial average. 

 But even with the ideal growing conditions - strong U.S. economic growth, no inflation and a relative dearth of disappointing earnings news - many market watchers are unconvinced the landscape is clear of bear prints. 

 Seasonal factors are partly at work. The coming week is the last before the first-quarter earnings reporting season - one of Wall Street's most harrowing because it is the last chance for many companies to forewarn investors of disappointments. 

 "The biggest news on the earnings front this week could well come from pre-announcements," said Charles Hill, director of research at First Call. "This should be one of the peak weeks for the quarter." 

 This quarter that may be a misleading measure, though. By First Call's figures, corporate warnings are running well below the last three quarters, perhaps signalling an end to a down trend in earnings growth that hit bottom in the third quarter of 1998 when profits fell for the first time in seven years. 

 There have been high-profile exceptions to the overall positive tone. Coca-Cola Co. , for example, startled Wall Street by announcing it expected a decline in volume sales for the quarter. 

 Technology may hold the key for several reasons this week. Wall Street is depending the sector to produce by far the strongest growth even though it is also an area that has produced a large share of the warnings. 

 Dell Computer Corp.  will host a meeting with analysts this week, one that will get unusual attention given that several analysts have already ratcheted back growth expectations for the personal computer giant in the wake of a profit warning from competitor Compaq Computer Corp. . 

 While earnings news assumes its periodic perch on the market's pedestal, investors can take comfort that the economy and the Federal Reserve continued to cooperate last week. 

 The Fed's interest rate policy committee left rates unchanged at its meeting last week and a critical employment report on Friday appeared to validate the decision, confirming the so-called Goldilocks economy - a delicate not-too-hot, not-too-cold balance of growth without inflation - is intact. 

 The report showed unemployment dropped to 4.2 percent in March, a 29-year low, but job growth was tamer than expected and wages gave no hint of an inflation acceleration. The news drove bonds higher in a Good Friday holiday-shortened session. 

 "Basically, the numbers were comforting with nothing that hinted at inflation," said Peter Cardillo, director of research at Westfalia Investments. "That helped interest rate fears dissipate." 

 Some analysts say the fact that investors seem increasingly unwilling to buy anything but a narrow handful of stocks offers the clearest source of worry. That shift in sentiment recently triggered one of the most colourfully named of Wall Street harbingers - the Titanic indicator. 

 The indicator, as tracked by Florida-based market analysis firm Ned Davis Research, flashes a warning whenever the market reaches a new high - as happened during the Dow's advance to 10,000 - and the number of stocks hitting new lows on the New York Stock Exchange exceeds new highs by more than 100. 

 Over the last few decades, the Titanic indicator coincided with or led bear markets in 1973 and 1990 and preceded the 1987 and 1998 market downturns. However, its performance was somewhat erratic, with lead times ranging up to eight months in the case of the 1990 bear market. 

 For those inclined to eye bearishly the relative weakness of the broad market, the indicator sounded an alarm. 

 "It obviously does lead the market and while it's not telling you the market is headed straight down, it does tell you that the market has entered a dangerous zone," said Michael Murphy, money manager and editor of several newsletters. 

 Murphy cited the indicator in a recent issue of "Overpriced Stock Service," a publication aimed at short-sellers, investors who seek to profit from falling markets. Cautious on the broad market, Murphy, who also edits "California Technology Stock Letter" is actually upbeat on tech stocks. 

 "We basically follow earnings," Murphy said, adding he saw earnings growth in technology remaining comparatively robust while, "earnings in the old economy - as shown by Coke - are going to be weaker than expected." 

 The Dow industrials ended last week at 9,832.51, backtracking a bit after chalking up its first finish above the 10,000 level on March 29. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv4203kh8




 WSI Industries -2: Shares Fall To 52-Week Low >WSCI 

409 words
1 April 1999
23:22
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--WSI Industries Inc. (WSCI) shares fell 11.7% Thursday, a decline company officials couldn't explain. 

 Chief Financial Officer Paul D. Sheeley pointed out that the stock's thin float makes for potentially sharp price swings. The company, a Long Lake, Minn., contract manufacturer of machine-tooled metal parts, has about 2.5 million shares outstanding, he told Dow Jones. 

 Two blocks totaling 41,800 shares traded Thursday morning. The first, of 19,100 shares, moved at 3 5/8 on a 1/4 downtick, driving the stock down 25% and under the previous 52-week low of 4 11/16, set Tuesday. A second trade of 22,700 shares moved at 3 11/16, and took place around 11:00 a.m., EST, roughly 30 minutes after the first. 

 Sheeley said he was unaware of the block activity. 

 Mike Taglich, president of Taglich Brothers D'Amadeo Wagner & Co., a New York brokerage house specializing in micro-cap stocks, couldn't identify a buyer or seller, or a rationale behind the trades. Taglich himself owns more than 70,000 shares of WSI and covers the company for his firm. 

 Shares of WSI fell 9/16 to close at 4 1/4 on Nasdaq volume of 48,700 shares. Average daily turnover is 9,300. 

 WSI issued a profit warning in December, targeting fiscal second-quarter results ranging from breakeven to a "moderate" net loss. 

 Taglich expects the company to lose "less than a dime a share" for the quarter, which ended in March. 

 WSI is to report second-quarter results next week. 

 WSI Chief Financial Officer Sheeley declined to comment on guidance. 

 In last year's second quarter, WSI, formerly known as Washington Scientific Industries Inc., earned $498,000, or 20 cents a share, on revenue of $5.7 million. 

 The company attributed its projected second-quarter performance to action by its chief customer; John Deere & Co. shut down one of its tractor plants for one month during the quarter. "People weren't buying enough tractors," Taglich said. 

 According to Sheeley, Deere represents about 70% of WSI's revenue. 


Beyond the second quarter, however, Taglich sees a rosier picture as
WSI integrates its recently acquired Taurus Manufacturing. He said the
new unit should offset slower sales to Deere.
   - Scott Eden; 201-938-5173



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  04-01-99



05:22 PM


Document dj00000020010826dv4101w5q




 PeopleSoft to Report Sales  Decline  On Demand Slowdown in First Period 

261 words
1 April 1999
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
UK9A
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 PeopleSoft Inc. said it will report lower-than-expected first-quarter revenue because of an industrywide slowdown in customer demand. The maker of large-scale business software also said operating-profit margins are likely to be "significantly" lower than earlier forecasts of just under 16%, and added that it will no longer publish earnings forecasts "due to uncertainty associated with current market conditions." The warning, issued before stock markets opened Wednesday, sent PeopleSoft's shares down 6%, or 93.75 cents, to a 52-week low of $14.625. PeopleSoft was once among the fastest-growing companies in so-called enterprise resource planning, or ERP, software. But the market has been suffering from several problems, including a reluctance by big companies to spend money on these systems just ahead of 2000. Some analysts were still shocked by the extent of the damage suggested by PeopleSoft's warning. 

  "I expected them to guide us lower, but nobody would have predicted this kind of a fall in revenues," said Robert Kugel, analyst with FAC Equities. "It's been ugly, but it just got uglier than anyone imagined." Mr. Kugel had been expecting first-quarter revenue of $348 million. Instead, PeopleSoft said it expects to report revenue of $275 million to $305 million, compared with $277 million a year earlier. The projection was less than the 20% to 25% growth the company forecast during its Jan. 28 announcement of 1998 earnings. PeopleSoft is expected to release first-quarter earnings on April 20. (Staff) 

Document wsje000020010830dv41006a8


 News 
 Silicon Graphics issues Q3  profit warning 

 Linda Leung in Silicon Valley 
191 words
1 April 1999
Newswire (VNU)
VNUN
English
Copyright (c) 1999 VNU Business Publications Ltd.; Source: World Reporter (TM)

 Silicon Graphics has warned that it expects to make a significantly higher fiscal third quarter loss than expected, following six consecutive quarters in the red. The workstation vendor, once the darling of the movie industry following its role in Jurassic Park, warned that it is now anticipating losses of between $0.20-0.25 per share compared with the $0.07 predicted by the First Call analysts consensus. Revenues for the quarter, which ended on 31 March, are expected to be in the low to mid $600 million range. Richard Belluzzo, Silicon Graphics chairman and chief executive, said: "This quarters disappointing results reflect the challenging transitions in both of our principal product lines." The firm had experienced delays in ramping up production for its new 320 Visual Workstation and sales of its Origin server business were slow becauseit was about to introduce new R12000 microprocessor based systems, he explained. 

  The companys restructuring programme to cut costs and reposition its product line had also affected third quarter sales, Belluzo said. Tocomment on this story, email newswire@vnu.co.uk 

Document vnun000020010830dv41002gf

Search Summary

 Text((“profit*” same “warning*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”))) OR ((“profit*” same “fall*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“headwind” same “profit*”) (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”)))   Date04/01/1999 to 04/30/1999   SourceAll Sources   AuthorAll Authors   CompanyAll Companies   SubjectCorporate/Industrial News   IndustryAll Industries   RegionUnited States   LanguageEnglish   Results Found66   Timestamp27 March 2018 9:22  
 Page 108 of 108     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

