 
•	  S&P Lowers Ratings On Bankrupt Fruit Of The Loom To Junk Status 
•	  Value America Gave Some A Sneak Preview Of 4th Quarter Earns Miss 
•	  U.S. stocks hold gains, banks push higher. 
•	  U.S. stocks on track for record highs. 
•	  RESEARCH ALERT - CIC/EIFB keeps Sodexho buy rating. 
•	  MONEYLINE; National Assn. of Securities Dealers Inc.- CEO; CNNfn 
•	 RESEARCH ALERT-DuPont Photomasks  cut .
•	 BANK ONE'S CEO, CHAIRMAN RESIGNS
•	  Company Town Bank One's McCoy Resigns From Chairman, CEO Posts Credit: The acquisition of First USA hurt profit and slashed stock. His...
•	 3Com shares drop on  profit warning , analysts' outlooks.
•	 FOCUS - DuPont Photomasks  profit warning  costs stock.
•	  Global Corporate Report: Xerox Faces Mounting Competition --- Canon Cuts Into Copier Market Share 
•	  INTERVIEW-Austria's AHT sees robust 2000 recovery. 
•	  Dole Food Warns Over Earnings For the Quarter 
•	 Xerox Faces Mounting Challenge to Copier Business --- Canon and Others  Cut  Into Market Share, Especially for Digital Machines
•	 WRAP: Telstra 1H  Profit Warning  Knocks 5% Off Shares
•	  FOCUS - French tech stocks hurt by Cisco's slide. 
•	  FOCUS - French tech stocks hurt by Cisco's slide. 
•	 Astec Industries Issues  Profit Warning  After Analysts' Estimates Lowered
•	 THE MARKETS
•	 NASDAQ HITS RECORD
•	  U.S. stocks stay mixed in early afternoon. 
•	  Wall Street mixed as Nasdaq treads record. 
•	 U.S. stocks fall on Xerox  warning ,  profit -taking.
•	 Xerox Issues Another  Profit Warning , Cites Weak Sales Of Copiers
•	  IBM Says 4th Quarter Earnings Outlook Unchanged -Analyst 
•	  IBM Says 4th Quarter Looking In Line With October Warning 
•	  U.K.'s Racal To Decide On Spinning Off Defense Business Next Year 
•	 A question of 'selective disclosure'; Firms play favorites in revealing news
•	  Tech Shares Continue to Advance As Qualcomm and Broadcom Rise 
•	  FOCUS-Raisio admits Benecol has done poorly in US. 
•	  FOCUS-Raisio in freefall on downgrade. 
•	 Fairlawn, Ohio-Based Building Products Firm Issues  Profit Warning



 S&P Lowers Ratings On Bankrupt Fruit Of The Loom To Junk Status 

474 words
30 December 1999
16:28
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Standard & Poor's Thursday lowered its corporate credit rating on Fruit of the Loom, Inc. to junk status, a day after the debt-ridden apparel maker's parent filed for bankruptcy protection. 

 Fruit of the Loom Inc. is the operating company of Fruit of the Loom Ltd. The Chicago-based company has been on the brink of a liquidity crisis for months. It hasn't been in compliance with certain loan covenants since the fall, but was operating under a waiver from its bank lenders that was expected to expire Jan. 31. 

 S&P said it also reduced its corporate credit rating on Fruit of the Loom to D from triple-C-minus, and lowered its ratings on the company's 7% senior debentures, 6.5% senior notes, 7.375% senior debentures and 8.875% senior notes to the same level. 

 "These actions reflect the announcement by Fruit of the Loom, Ltd., a Cayman Islands holding company, that it and certain of its U.S. subsidiaries have filed voluntary petitions with U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware to reorganize under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code," S&P said. "The company's foreign subsidiaries are not part of the Chapter 11 filing," the ratings agency noted. 

 Fruit Of The Loom said Wednesday that one of its lenders, Bank of America, has agreed to provide a new $625 million secured debtor-in-possession credit facility to fulfill short-term expenses. 

 The maker of men's and boys' underwear, women's and girls' underwear, printable activewear, outerwear, casualwear, sportswear and childrenswear called the Chapter 11 filing "the first step in our effort to address the challenges facing the company and protect the brand." 

 The company, best known for its underwear and commercials with the "Fruit Of The Loom Guys," enjoys strong brand recognition and has an estimated 32% share of the U.S. market for men and boys' underwear, second to the about 37% share held by Sara Lee Corp.'s Hanes unit, The Wall Street Journal noted Thursday. 

 The company has tried in recent years to cut costs in a number of ways including layoffs and the creation of the parent company in the Cayman Islands, where corporate taxes are lower,  But that strategy also yielded quality-control problems and complicated internal production and inventory-control processes. When Fruit subsequently misread demand trends in its marketplace, it found itself unable to produce enough of certain items for some market segments. Those problems resulted in a string of earnings shortfalls. disappointments. William Farley resigned as chief executive in August, on the same day the company disclosed another profit warning. 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dvcu00pa9




 Value America Gave Some A Sneak Preview Of 4th Quarter Earns Miss 

323 words
29 December 1999
19:07
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 CHARLOTTE -(Dow Jones)- Value America Inc. (VUSA) gave certain analysts an early peek at its fourth-quarter earnings warning and restructuring plans before the online retailer made the news public Wednesday. 

 Robertson Stephens apparently had the news early enough for analyst Lauren Cooks Levitan to put a research note detailing Value America's plans on the firm's Internet site early Wednesday morning, before Value America issued a release at 8 a.m. 

 The Web site at one point on Wednesday morning showed that Levitan's note was published at 1:11 a.m. EST. The site also contains a note that the firm's morning meeting, held at 8 a.m. EST, included information about the Value America announcement. 

 Robertson Stephens was lead underwriter on Value America's initial public offering in April. 

 Levitan couldn't be reached immediately for comment. 

 The Securities and Exchange Commission has expressed concern about companies issuing news to select audiences, such as an influential analyst, before releasing the news to the public. 

 An SEC spokesman said Wednesday the commission does not comment on the legality of individual announcements. 

 As reported, Charlottesville, Va.-based Value America said Wednesday that fourth-quarter per-share earnings will miss Wall Street's views due to a $5.6 million restructuring charge. The company plans to cut its workforce by 47% and consolidate some facilities to focus on core product areas. 

 Shares of the Nasdaq-listed stock recently traded down 7/8, or 13%, at 6 on 1.9 million shares. Average daily volume is 608,223 shares. 

 (Corrected 04:55 PM) 

 Robertson Stephens analyst Lauren Cooks Levitan put a research note about Value America Inc.'s (VUSA) restructuring plans and profit warning on the firm's Internet site Wednesday morning. 

 (An item at 2:07 p.m. EST misstated the day the note was on the Web site.) 

Document dj00000020010827dvct07wan




 U.S. stocks hold gains, banks push higher. 

807 words
29 December 1999
20:12
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 29 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks held gains in late afternoon trading on Wednesday and looked poised to log record highs as technology and financial shares pushed Wall Street higher despite markedly light trading volume. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 29 points, or 0.25 percent, to 11,506 a day after hitting another record close of 11,476.71. Earlier in the session, the blue-chip index hit a new intraday high at 11,543.08. 

 The Nasdaq composite index gained 41 points, or 1.03 percent, to 4,013, fuelled by Internet stocks. Earlier in the day it hit an intraday high at 4,025.92. If the tech-driven index closes above 4,000, it will mark the first close above that milestone mark. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 index was up 4 points, or 0.30 percent, at 1,461. It also set a new intraday high at 1,467.47. 

 The Russell 2000 benchmark of smaller stocks was on track to beat its record high close, 491.41, set in April 1998. It was up 5, or 1.07 percent, at 493 by late afternoon. 

 Trading volume was light, however, with only 446.8 million shares trading hands on the New York Stock Exchange. Nasdaq logged 908.4 million shares by late afternoon. 

 Breadth was positive, with 1,852 stocks heading higher on the Big Board compared with 1,197 slipping lower. 

 "Some of the downtrodden sectors and downtrodden stocks are starting to lift off of their lows. You're getting the illusion of a broad market when it's really nothing more than some of the losers starting to look a little better," said Barry Hyman, market strategist for Ehrenkrantz, King Nussbaum Inc. 

 "You'll get breadth positive on those days, like today. But there is no volume in the market," he said. 

 Among the big winners was digital wireless communication company Qualcomm Inc., which was up a stellar 108-1/2 at 611-1/2 after PaineWebber started coverage of the company with a buy rating and set a 12-month $1,000 price target. 

 Qualcomm is set to split its stock this week four-for-one. 

 The Dow moved up on strength in stocks such as American Express Co., up 3-7/16 at 165-3/16, Hewlett-Packard Co., up 2-5/16 at 113-5/8, and chemical company DuPont Co., which was up 2-3/4 at 67. 

 One of the most active stocks was Charles Schwab Corp., the nation's No. 1 online broker. It was up 5-7/16 at 39-3/8 after it said it expects to exceed fourth-quarter profit expectations due to strong trading volumes. 

 Schwab pulled other online financial stocks higher. E*Trade Group Inc. gained 2-7/16 to 28-3/16 and Knight/Trimark Group Inc. added 1-15/16 to 48-3/8. 

 Another bank stock, USABancShares.com Inc., rose 7 to 14-1/4 after hitting a new high of 19-1/2. The company said it would launch a Web site focused on business-to-business electronic commerce. 

 On the down side, drug stocks showed weakness, with the American Stock Exchange's pharmaceutical index down 3.61 points, or 1.02 percent, at 351.75. Dow component Johnson & Johnson lost 3-9/16 to 92-3/8. Merck & Co. slipped 1-7/8 to 67-7/8. 

 Biotechnology stocks, on other hand, gained again. The American Stock Exchange's biotech index rose 3.74 points, or 0.96 percent, to 392.40. 

 Shares of Amgen gained 4-1/16 to 61-3/4 after hitting a fresh high of 62. Genzyme General rose 1-1/4 to 46-3/4. 

 Earnings warnings for the upcoming quarterly reporting season also started littering the market. 

 Shares of chocolate maker Hershey Foods Corp. fell to their lowest level since April 1997 a day after the company issued a profit warning. The stock was down 2-1/16 at 45-15/16, as several brokerages cut their earnings estimates for the company, which is having distribution problems. 

 Sodexho Marriott Services Inc., the country's largest food and facilities management company, said it expects its fiscal first-quarter earnings to fall 5 percent below forecasts due to higher costs. 

 Sodexho was cut to market performer from outperformer by Goldman, Sachs & Co. after the news. Its shares were down 1/2 to 13-11/16, near a year low of 13-3/8. 

 Shares of Antec Corp. dropped after the international telecommunications technology firm said quarterly earnings would be below Wall Street targets. The stock fell 7-3/4 to 30-3/16. 

 ((Wall Street Newsdesk +212 859 1730)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dvct07lok




 U.S. stocks on track for record highs. 

754 words
29 December 1999
19:21
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 29 (Reuters) - Technology shares were leading Wall Street toward yet more record highs in afternoon trading on Wednesday as the bull market charged ahead in the final days of trading for 1999. 

 The Nasdaq composite index .IXIC) was up 39 points, or 1.01 percent, at 4,012, fuelled by Internet stocks. Earlier in the day, it hit an intraday high of 4,025.92. 

 Among the big winners was digital wireless communication company Qualcomm Inc., which was up a stellar 107-3/16 at 610-3/16 after PaineWebber started coverage of the company with a buy rating and set a 12-month $1,000 price target. 

 A day after the Dow Jones industrial average .DJI) hit another record close, it was up 41 points, or 0.36 percent, at 11,518. Earlier in the session, it hit a new all-time intraday high at 11,543.08. 

 The Dow was up despite losses from Johnson & Johnson, which was down 3-5/16 at 92-5/8; and Procter & Gamble Co., which was down 2-13/16 at 108-13/16. 

 "It's impressive," said William Cheney, the chief economist for John Hancock Funds. "People are starting to invest on the belief that Y2K is not going to be an issue. We have a reassessment of risk." 

 He said the markets are moving higher on both emotion and the rational reassessment of risk. 

 "I guess I'm a little sceptical about it's durability when you think about what's likely to go on next year, The economy is likely to slow and that can't be good for corporate earnings," Cheney said. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 index .SPX) was up 4 points, or 0.31 percent, at 1,462. It also set a new intraday high at 1,467.47. 

 The Russell 2000 .RUT), a benchmark of smaller stocks, finally was on track to beat its record high close, 491.41, set in April 1998. It was up 5, or 1.05 percent, at 493. 

 The 30-year U.S. Treasury bond was up 15/32 with the yield falling to 6.43 percent. 

 "It seems the bulls have not taken this week off," said Peter Coolidge, senior equity trader at Brean Murray & Co. 

 Advancing issues outpaced declines by 1,819 to 1,215 with only 376 million shares traded on the New York Stock Exchange. There were 219 stocks at new lows and 75 at new highs. 

 Internet stocks were up more than 3 percent, according to TheStreet.com's Internet index .DOT) and gains were also recorded in the oil, metals, and investment banks. 

 The most active stock on Nasdaq was online retailer Egghead.com Inc. on the heels of a press release it issued touting its high Web traffic for the week ended Dec. 19 as measured by Media Metrix. The stock was up 5-9/16 at 17-1/8. 

 Shares in Viacom Inc. and CBS Corp. were down after CBS said 98.7 percent of its shareholders approved its merger of the two media companies. 

 Viacom was down with 3/4 at 57-9/16 and CBS was down 11/16 at 60-1/8. 

 Charles Schwab Corp., the nation's No. 1 online broker. It was up 4-1/4 at 38-3/16 after it said it expects to exceed fourth-quarter profit expectations due to strong trading volumes. 

 The news from Schwab boosted other online trading firms, even TD Waterhouse Group Inc. as its Internet trading site was temporarily out of service. TD Waterhouse was up 1-5/8 at 16-15/16. 

 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. was up 4-1/4 at 138-1/2; Goldman Sachs Group Inc. was up 2-15/16 at 87-15/16 and E*Trade Group was up 2-7/16 at 28-3/16. 

 Shares in chocolate maker Hershey Foods Corp. fell to their lowest level since April 1997 a day after the company issued a profit warning. The stock was down 1-1/2 at 46-1/2 as several brokerages cut their earnings estimates for the company. 

 United Airlines UAL Corp., the world's largest airline, was down 3/16 at 76-3/4 after it said it will add a fuel surcharge to the cost of shipping freight due to rising fuel prices. 

 ((Wall Street Newsdesk +212 859 1730)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dvct07lm7




 RESEARCH ALERT - CIC/EIFB keeps Sodexho buy rating. 

255 words
29 December 1999
13:35
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited


PARIS, Dec 29 (Reuters) - CIC/EIFB said on Wednesday that it had kept its "buy" rating for French catering group Sodexho Alliance  with a 12-month target of 220 euros although its U.S. unit Sodexho Marriott Services Inc.	  made a profit warning for the first quarter.



In an investor report the brokerage said that efforts to boost internal growth at the Sodexho Marriott Services unit would only temporarily pressure margins.


 At 1307 GMT Sodexho Alliance was down 5.04 percent at 173.3 euros while the CAC-40 index gained 0.43 percent. 

 Sodexho Marriott Services Inc. , the largest provider of food and facilities management services in the United States, said on Tuesday it expects higher costs to push first quarter earnings below last year's results and five percent below forecasts. 

 "Sodexho Marriott Services is in year one of its three-year plan to boost internal growth," said the brokerage after speaking with the company. 

 "It is clear that maximum efforts will be made at the beginning of the three-year period and that pressure on margins will be sharper in 2000 than in 2001 or 2002," it said. 

 Boosting internal growth remained at the core of Sodexho Marriott Services's strategy as higher cash-flows will cut debt and contribute for half to earnings growth in the 2000-2002 period, it said. 

 ((Paris newsroom + 33 1 4221 5432, fax + 33 1 4236 1072, paris.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dvct07lgk


 Business 
 MONEYLINE; National Assn. of Securities Dealers Inc.- CEO; CNNfn 

 Stuart Varney, Rhonda Schaffler, Charles Molineaux, Greg Clarkin, Kelli Arena, Allan Dodds Frank, Fred Katayama, Susan Lisovicz, Bill Dorman, Ceci Rodgers 
8,425 words
28 December 1999
23:30
CNNfn: Moneyline News Hour
MNYL
English
(c) 1999 Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved.

 STUART VARNEY, CNNfn ANCHOR: The Nasdaq lights up Times Square with its new marketsite tower. But on Wall Street, it`s the Dow that stole the spotlight, cruising past a record. 

 Consumer confidence? More like exuberance at century`s end. Main Street optimism hasn`t been this strong since Johnson was president. 

 We`ll crisscross the globe for our special look at a "Mighty `99." Tonight: Wall Street wasn`t the only market winner this year. We`ll look at a worldwide financial comeback. One casualty of that comeback: America`s bond market. 1999, the year Chicago bond traders would like to forget. 

 ANNOUNCER: This is THE MONEYLINE NEWS HOUR. Reporting tonight from New York, Stuart Varney. 

 VARNEY: Good evening, everyone. Willow is off tonight. 

 We begin with a role reversal on Wall Street. Today, the fireworks were not on the Nasdaq, but on the big board. Big gains in some old-line stocks pushed the Dow industrials to a record close. Fueling investor confidence: signs that this long-running economic boom will last well into the new year. 

 Rhonda Schaffler has more in today`s "Street Sweep." 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 RHONDA SCHAFFLER, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The Dow industrials stole the spotlight from their Nasdaq cousins, as investors sent the blue chips to their 33rd record of the year. The Dow bobbed around the 11,500 level, finally settling at 11,476, a gain of 85 points. 

 But a late profit-taking binge in technology issues derailed the Nasdaq from reaching its 60th record of the year and again robbed it of closing above the 4000 level for the first time ever. The Nasdaq ended with a loss of 3 points, closing at 3972. The index had managed to hit an intraday high of 4022. Tech stars Intel (URL: http://www.intel.com/) , Microsoft (URL: http://www.microsoft.com/) and Dell Computer (URL: http://www.dell.com/) all ended the session lower. 

 BRIAN FINNERTY, C.E. UNTERBERG TOWBIN: There`s a lot of money in the marketplace taking a little profits in some of the big names, but it`s not leaving the market. It`s looking for other areas and looking for value, which is sort of an unheard of word in 1999. 

 SCHAFFLER: A broad swath of blue-chip issues led the Dow higher. ALCOA (URL: http://www.alcoa.com/) , American Express (URL: http://www.americanexpress.com/) , Home Depot (URL: http://www.homedepot.com/) , 3M (URL: http://www.mmm.com/) and United Technologies(URL: http://www.utc.com/) all chalked up impressive gains. 

 A stronger-than-expected report on consumer confidence today had investors betting the markets` resilience would last well into the new year. The conference board reported that consumer confidence this month reached levels not seen for 31 years. After bottoming out in February 1992 at a reading of 47.3, optimism among American consumers took off, carrying stocks with it. But some on Wall Street are concerned that the exuberance may overheat the economy. 

 MICHAEL MORAN, DAIWA SECURITIES: With consumer confidence as high as it is now, and consumer spending growing as rapidly as it has, I think Fed officials feel they have to put a damper on consumer spending, or we`re going to be moving into a situation where we start to see rising inflation in the U.S. 

 SCHAFFLER (on camera): To put the prosperity of the 1990s into perspective, the Securities Industry Association today said that its members raised more capital for businesses in the U.S. this decade -- more than $14 trillion -- than the combined total raised in  all previous years in U.S. history. 

 Rhonda Schaffler, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: The Nasdaq, just a stone`s throw away from its own high, after missing another opportunity to breach the 4000 mark. 

 Charles Molineaux has been following the action from the Nasdaq- Amex marketsite and he joins us now with the latest on this --Charles. 

 CHARLES MOLINEAUX, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Stuart. 

 I`m afraid the latest hot streak for the Nasdaq Composite has come to an end at seven consecutive records, not eight, thanks to a late blast of selling. After some early weakness, the Composite actually rallied in the morning and spent most of the day above the historic 4000 mark, but in the last hour of trading it dove below 4000 and below break even to a loss of 3 points. 

 Yahoo! (URL: http://www.yahoo.com/) was off by 6 percent, as Internet stocks started strong, but lost their steam and ended the day down 1 percent, except for Internet retailers like Amazon.com (URL: http://www.amazon.com/) , many of which bounced back after some harsh selling yesterday. eBay (URL: http://www.ebay.com/) , eToys (URL: http://www.etoys.com/) also got  up on the day. 

 And business-to-business Internet names like Elcom International (URL: http://www.elcominternational.com/) , which was up by 78 percent, it was the second most actively traded stock on the Nasdaq today. Biotechs continue to be the market`s favorites, they were up by 3.5 percent. Amgen (URL: http://www.amgen.com/) surged 8 1/2 on some positive analyst comments. And news of a possible breakthrough into the Chinese market made a moonshot out of Qiao Xing Universal Telephone (URL: http://www.qiaoxing.com/) , it gained more than 500 percent on the day. As we wind down for the year, the volume was on the light side, 1.2 billion shares, and that can intensify the market`s volatility and exacerbate the influence of day traders` rapid buying and selling, that is certainly what happened today. 

 Also, strategists point out today was the final day you could buy or sell a security and have the sale settle in calendar 1999. That may have prompted some investors to take their profits at the end of the day, of course, and lock up their portfolios ahead of Y2K just in case -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: Is there a strong feeling that we will indeed close above the 4000 level when the final bell rings around lunchtime on Friday? 

 MOLINEAUX: Profit taking notwithstanding, the strategists really do expect that there is very little to keep the market from moving higher, and the next big milestone is, of course, 4000. We`ve already crossed it three times over the past three sessions, and there`s no reason to think that these stocks can`t go higher still. The point at which we ended the day today is certainly well within striking distance of 4000. 

 VARNEY:  Five thousand by February? -- no, that`s not a serious question. 

 MOLINEAUX: That`s a tall order. 

 VARNEY: Charles Molineaux, thank you very much. 

 Well, my next guest says 4000 is too shortsighted for the Nasdaq. He`s looking for 5000 and beyond, and he`s often been right. His technology fund is up 85 percent this year. 

 Joining us now from Princeton, New Jersey, is Paul Meeks, he`s the manager of the Merrill Lynch Global Technology Fund. Paul, welcome to the program. 

 PAUL MEEKS, MANAGER, MERRILL LYNCH GLOBAL TECHNOLOGY FUND: Good to see you, Stuart. 

 VARNEY: Just about everybody who`s appeared recently on MONEYLINE is forecasting confidently a tech stock correction in January or February, 10, 20, perhaps more percent than that. What do you say? 

 MEEKS: I think there is a chance that, that could happen. Though, it is always difficult to time the market. I am short-term worried, at least through February of 2000, based on Y2K concerns lingering, very steep valuations, and also what`s going to happen at the next Fed meeting. 

 VARNEY: But you`re not selling anything, because I think your fund stays pretty much fully invested, correct? 

 MEEKS: Yes. We stay fully invested, because again, it is very difficult to market time. And we do believe in the secular theme continuing for technology stocks. 

 VARNEY: So you see any correction being relatively short lived, and we are off to the races after that? 

 MEEKS: I feel very strongly that the technology fundamentals after the end of February for the rest of calendar 2000 are going to be fabulous, even better than what we`ve seen in 1999. 

 VARNEY: When you say technical -- tech stock fundamentals, fair enough, but you are talking about valuations at 80, 90 times projected earnings, now that doesn`t sound like very solid fundamentals. MEEKS: Well, valuations are always difficult to calibrate in technology, but consider this, we`ve had a great run in these stocks and the fundamentals have held together fairly well despite the head wind that we`ve had with Y2K. That is going to be removed in February, even for the corporations that have the longest lockdowns, and we`ll also have with perfect hindsight visibility of what the  Fed is going to be doing at that point. So I feel very confident about next year. 

 VARNEY: In your tech fund, I believe that most -- some of your top holdings are Lucent (URL: http://www.lucent.com/) , Microsoft (URL: http://www.microsoft.com/) , Veritas Software (URL: http://www.veritas.com/) , EMC (URL: http://www.emc.com/) , AOL (URL: http://www.aol.com/) , Cisco (URL: http://www.cisco.com/) and Yahoo! (URL: http://www.yahoo.com/) . Where is the  best value in that group of stocks? 

 MEEKS: Well, I think if you take a look at an industry level -- now, we think there is about 16, 17, 18 industry groups that make up the tech sector -- we see particularly good values in contract manufacturing, semiconductors that sell into the communications markets, telecom equipment -- that`s Lucent, our No. 1 holding -- and I also do like some of the Internet names. 

 VARNEY: OK. Now, your top holdings in your Internet fund are SOFTBANK <http://www.softbank.co.jp/>, CMGI (URL: http://www.cmgi.com/) , Qualcomm (URL: http://www.qualcomm.com/) , Inktomi (URL: http://www.inktomi.com) . Where is the best value amongst those four? 

 MEEKS: I would think that if you take of look over time, Inktomi probably has the best position in its group. One stock that`s not on the list that, I think, is a mid to large-cap name that is a particularly good value here is Priceline  Inc.;  Ticker:  PCLN;  URL: http://www.priceline.com/>. 

 VARNEY: Paul Meeks, thank you very much for joining us. 

 MEEKS: Thank you, Stuart. 

 VARNEY: All right. 

 Now let`s turn to some of the day`s other top stories outside the world of business. 

 New demands from hijackers holding 155 hostages on an Air India flight. They told the Indian government they want $200 million in cash and freedom for 35 jailed Muslim militants. Delhi says it will deal "firmly" with the situation. 

 And an American Airlines (URL: http://www.amrcorp.com/) employee charged with possessing parts for  a bomb. Texas police allegedly found explosives at the home of Jere Wayne Haney. The FBI says it`s investigating Haney for any links to extremist groups. 

 Disturbing testimony today about U.S. nuclear scientist Wen Ho Lee. A former boss says the scientist admitted to failing an FBI lie- detector test and said he might have "accidentally" passed secrets to another country. Those allegations came during a bail hearing on Lee, who`s charged with mishandling classified information. 

 Millionaire rap music producer Sean "Puffy" Combs predicting he`ll be cleared of a criminal weapons possession charge. Combs says he doesn`t own a gun or carry one. The producer and actress Jennifer Lopez were arrested yesterday after police said they found a stolen pistol in their car. Prosecutors have dropped their case against Lopez. 

 And actor Clayton Moore best known for his role as television`s Lone Ranger has died in Los Angeles of a heart attack. The show became a hit for ABC in the early `50s. Clayton Moore was 85. 

 It`s that time when we find out what some of MONEYLINE`s other reporters are working on for the rest of tonight`s program, and we begin with Greg Clarkin -- Greg. 

 GREG CLARKIN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, call it the three-point club -- I`ll tell you about the batch of Dow stocks that drove the blue chips to a record high. 

 KELLI ARENA, CNN CORRESPONDENT: And I`m Kelli Arena in Washington. 

 Buying prescription drugs over the Internet is as easy as point and click, but it can also be dangerous. I`ll have more details on the federal government`s plan to regulate sales on the Web. 

 VARNEY: And coming up on MONEYLINE, did the recall of a fast-food freebie reverberate all the way to Wall Street? We`ll tell you about the day`s biggest stock moves. 

 Plus, after a year that saw big tobacco take a real beating, we`ll look at what 2000 might have in store. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: In tonight`s MONEYLINE Movers, equity marketing slumped nearly 2 3/4. Burger King <http://www.burgerking.com/> today, recalled 25 million Pokemon balls designed by Equity Marketing (URL: http://www.equity-marketing.com/) . That`s after reports that a 13-month- old girl covered her mouth with the plastic ball and suffocated. Equity Marketing insists the recall won`t hurt the bottom line. 

 Tegal (URL: http://www.tegal.com/) was the most active stock on the Nasdaq. It jumped 4 5/8. It`s a chip-maker, and it`s the latest tiny-tech to benefit from a positive buzz on the Web. And riding the e-commerce wave on Wall Street, business-to-business software company, Elcom International (URL: http://www.elcominternational.com/) .  The stock jumped 16 points. 

 Today`s other e-commerce winners: PurchasePro (URL: http://www.purchasepro.com/) , Clarus (URL: http://www.claruscorp.com) and Retek (URL: http://www.retek.com/) . Meanwhile, Commerce One (URL: http://www.commerceone.com/) swung wildly. It was down nearly 6 1/2 on the day, after being up 75 points. As of today`s market close, the so-called "lockup period" expired for that stock. Employees are now allowed to sell their shares in the company. 

 Several tobacco stocks, though, took hits today, reaching new lows. R.J.Reynolds (URL: N/A) industries, and Loews (URL: http://www.loews.com/) all down. Philip Morris (URL: http://www.philipmorris.com/) gained a fraction after losing more than a point yesterday. The looming threat of billions of dollars in legal damages has made this by far the worst year of the decade for tobacco stocks. R.J. Reynolds is down more than 45 percent this year, B.A.T down more than 40 percent, and Loews is off 39 percent. As for Philip Morris, down 58.7 percent, making it the worst Dow performer of 1999. 

 Allan Dodds Frank looks now at two key developments in the ongoing tobacco wars, and how they could play out in the new year. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 ALLAN DODDS FRANK, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): 1999 was the year the tobacco industry finally began modifying its behavior, curtailing advertising, promoting youth anti-smoking campaigns, and paying the first installments on its $246 billion legal settlement with the states. 

 But all that did not satisfy critics. As the Year 2000 begins, the industry is waging a battle on two legal fronts, challenging a  federal suit against the industry, and a class action suit in Florida, where the possibility of a huge jury award looms. 

 In the federal case, the industry wants the judge to dismiss the Justice Department`s suit seeking repayment of federal money spent on tobacco-related illness. But the Justice Department`s response to the judge is not even due until the end of February, so it is the Florida case that has investors riveted. 

 The Florida Supreme Court, Monday, declined to intervene, a development that did not really shock the industry. 

 WILLIAM OHLEMEYER, PHILIP MORRIS: I don`t think it`s surprising, because appellate courts only rarely and very reluctantly involve themselves in the middle of a trial. Nothing that has happened to date has or will prevent us from taking full advantage of those appeals at  the appropriate point in time. 

 FRANK: Now, the jury, which last July found the industry guilty of egregious behavior, can consider a lump-sum damage award, perhaps as soon as mid-January. 

 MARY ARONSON, TOBACCO LITIGATION ANALYST: It`s my belief that the jury is likely to award a fairly significant amount in a lump-sum punitive damage. Once a final judgment is in, there is still an opportunity for the industry to appeal. 

 FRANK: Appeals could take years, but that does not comfort investors, who worry the award could cover 500,000 or more smokers and cost billions. 

 RICHARD JOY, STANDARD & POOR`S: As long as investors continue to believe that there`s this huge lump sum damage award on the near-term horizon, tobacco valuations will likely remain under pressure. 

 FRANK (on-camera): The industry had hoped that settling with the states would ease stock market pressure on the companies, but that has not proved to be the case. Tobacco stocks are down 40% or more for the year. 

 Allan Dodds Frank, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: An still ahead on MONEYLINE, we`ll tell you about Seattle`s precautions for Y2K. Draconian is a good word. We`ll be back. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Here`s a brief look at some of the stocks hitting 52- week highs. Top of the list is Hitachi (URL: http://www.hitachi.co.jp/) , followed by Toyota (URL: http://www.tiffany.com/) , Goldman Sachs (URL: http://www.gs.com/) and Home Depot (URL: http://www.homedepot.com/) . 

 On the corporate front, a bitter December for Hershey (URL: http://www.hersheys.com/) . The stock down more than 2 points, after Hershey issues a second profit warning for 1999. The chocolate maker recently had trouble getting supplies to stores. 

 And we also have news on Jenny Craig (URL: http://www.jennycraig.com/) . That company is raising its profile in the weight-loss business, hiring Monica Lewinsky as a pitch-woman. Lewinsky, whose face and figure gained fame after her liaison with the president became public, will appear in two television ads. The campaign will feature images before and after she shed a reported 31 pounds through a Jenny Craig program. 

 The White House proposing a crack down on prescription drug sales online. President Clinton today outlined a plan requiring web drugstores to get federal approval or face tough fines. 

 Kelli Arena has more on that. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 ARENA (voice-over): The administration says it`s a matter of public safety -- buying drugs over the Internet can be life threatening. Some web sites sell prescription drugs without prescriptions, and some even sell drugs that are not FDA approved for use in the U.S. 

 The government says most of the 400 or so on-line pharmacies are legitimate, abiding by state laws. But for those who don`t, the FDA would be given unprecedented control over all on-line drug stores, in cooperation with local regulators. 

 DONNA SHALALA, HHS SECRETARY: There is increasingly some rogue sales going on that the states can`t regulate -- that they don`t have the authority to regulate. We need to fill in the gaps here. 

 ARENA: Violators would face half-million dollar fines for each infraction. 

 JANE HENNEY, FDA: We are not interested at all in taking away those things that the Internet offers, like access, convenience for people who are home-bound or are in rural areas. 

 ARENA: Yearly online sales total only about $50 million. That`s less than 1 percent of total pharmaceutical sales. Increased regulation could be a plus for the industry. 

 STEVEN GERBER, CIBC WORLDWIDE: It certainly could represent good news for some of the larger Internet pharmacies that are seeking a way to differentiate themselves, and it also potentially represents good news from the vantage point of the major pharmaceutical houses that have been very wary about dealing with a number of the Internet pharmacies. 

 ARENA: Major online pharmacies issued statements saying, they`d like to hear more details, but don`t expect increased regulation to affect business. 

 (on camera): In the meantime, the National Association of Boards of Pharmacy does certify legitimate online drug sites. Its Web address? www.nabp.net. 

 Kelli Arena, CNN Financial News, Washington. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: Terrorism concerns cited today, as Seattle scaled down the main event in its Y2K party. The city announced that it will not allow spectators into the park around its landmark Space Needle for a New Year`s Eve fireworks display. Mayor Paul Schell says he has received no specific threats, but doesn`t want to risk public safety. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 MAYOR PAUL SCHELL, SEATTLE, WASHINGTON: At a time when the city is just recovering from the WTO and the anxieties, the heightened anxieties generally everywhere, that adding another layer of uncertainty at this time was not the prudent thing to do. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 VARNEY: New York and Washington, D.C. have both decided not to cancel their biggest celebrations. In New York`s Times Square, security measures include sealing mailboxes and manhole covers to stop would-be bombers. 

 Optimism tonight about that other Y2K problem -- the computer bug. Corporations and governments have spent billions to ensure their systems can handle the date change. But some critics say U.S. companies aren`t as well prepared as the government wants them to be. 

 Fred Katayama has more. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 FRED KATAYAMA, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Come January 1, that water may not come out when you turn on the faucet, so warns Michael Cherry, a Y2K consultant to Fortune 500 companies he won`t identify, and the federal government. He contends the U.S. isn`t as prepared as the government says it is. 

 MICHAEL CHERRY, PRESIDENT, CENTURY CORP.: On a scale of 1-10, I would put us more at a six. Four percent of all of the devices that we`ve tested have failed, have had serious problems, and needed some form of correction. 

 KATAYAMA: He`s referring to the billions of microchips that are embedded in everything from pipelines to PCs, such so-called embedded systems would control, for example, the compressor and pumps in a pipeline. Each chip contains thousands of lines of computer code which must be corrected or replaced if they contain the millennium bug. Only 1 percent to 5 percent of chips are sensitive to dates, but one faulty chip can throw off an entire system. Cherry contends many Fortune 500 companies haven`t tested embedded systems to see if they work with other computers, and have simply relied on their equipment suppliers to check for Y2K readiness. 

 CHERRY: All they`ve done is they`ve the inventory issue of logging what the manufacturer says and having that available, so that in their mind, they can then sue if things break. 

 KATAYAMA: But the president`s Y2K czar, John Koskinen, predicts there`ll be no national glitches, just some scattered local problems. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 KATAYAMA: Other Y2K consultants share Koskinen`s outlook. They say any problems that do crop up will mostly be manageable. One survey found that only 2 percent of the glitches caused by Y2K resulted in work stoppages -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: All right, Fred Katayama reporting. 

 And coming up: why Wall Street may look to Bangladesh for the first clues as to how we survive the transition to a new millennium. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Finally this half hour, an early warning about the impact of Y2K may come from some of the smallest markets on earth. Bangladesh is laying claim to have the first exchanges to open for business in the new millennium. Bangladesh will begin trading on Saturday, January 1. It`ll be followed by Oman, at the tip of  the Arabian peninsula, and then Qatar, a small Gulf nation near Kuwait. You probably won`t recognize most of the issues trading in these markets. In fact, the main exchange in Bangladesh has a market cap of less than $1 billion. But it does have a Web site. 

 In our next half hour, the comeback story of a mighty `99; we look at extraordinary market gains thousands of miles from Wall Street, where the boom heard around the world has been one big bust for the bond market. We`ll assess a year`s worth of damage. And opening night on Broadway for the Nasdaq`s new marketsite tower. We`ll talk live with chairman Frank Zarb. All that and more coming up. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Times have almost never been better, according to American consumers. Their confidence this month jumped to a near record high. In our special look at a mighty `99, Wall Street grabs the headlines, yes, but it`s not the only place where stocks are soaring. And in a year almost defined by the stock market boom, we`ll look at the 

 bust in the bond market, capping one of its worst years ever. 

 First, though, our top story: A record-setting day on Wall Street, and for a change, it was not the Nasdaq making history. No, the blue chips were the ones breaking new ground, driving the Dow industrials to its second record in a week. 

 Greg Clarkin reports. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 CLARKIN (voice-over): Tourists snap pictures in the cold outside the New York Stock Exchange. Inside, traders snapped up stocks for investors warming their year-end portfolios. The buying spree sent the Dow soaring: the blue chips topping the 11,500 mark by mid-afternoon. The Dow ended the session with an 85-point gain, closing at 11,476. 

 Big Board volume reflected the holiday state of mind of many investors: Less than 700 million shares traded just weeks after a string of one-billion-share days. And tech stocks turned in a mixed performance. The Nasdaq gained early, then lost ground and closed a few points shy of 4000, at 3972. 

 JOHN HUGHES, MARKET ANALYST, SHIELDS & CO.: There`s a lot of crosscurrents in this last week. We`re going to see some tax-loss selling. We may see some profit-taking as people try to offset some of their losses with some of their gains. We`re going to have end-of- the-quarter window dressing. 

 The Dow had five stocks to thank for most of its gain: American Express (URL: http://www.americanexpress.com/) , ALCOA (URL: http://www.alcoa.com/) , United Technologies(URL: http://www.utc.com/) , Hewlett-Packard (URL: http//www.hp.com/) and 3M (URL: http://www.mmm.com/) all gained better than 3. And as the year winds to a close, market watchers say investors have become increasingly aggressive. 

 CHARLES LEMONIDES, M&R CAPITAL MANAGEMENT: There`s no question that the investor overall is very confident out there, and that`s, you know, both a positive and a negative sign. Oftentimes, that`s been an indication that you`re a little bit ahead of yourself in the near  term. And I think that clearly may be the case right now. 

 CLARKIN: Many believe the buying will continue into the new year. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 CLARKIN: And most don`t see a speed bump until the Federal Reserve meeting in early February. The question they have then is will even that be enough to slow down investors accustomed to some very fast gains -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: No speed bump until February: We`ll remember you said that, Greg Clarkin. 

 (LAUGHTER) 

 Thank you very much. 

 CLARKIN: Sure. 

 VARNEY: Well, let`s take a closer look today at today`s rather choppy market action. Today`s blue chip rally was narrow. Winners and losers ran neck and neck on the Big Board. And new highs still lagging way behind new lows: 100 stocks hit new highs; 386 hit those new lows. 

 More weakness today in the bond market as well. The Treasury`s 30-year issue fell a little in price: the yield tonight at 6.47 percent. 

 Inflation-wary bond traders were rattled by news that consumers have almost never felt better about the economy. The Conference Board`s index of consumer confidence this month blew away expectations, soaring to a level not seen in 31 years. It`s one of the economy`s most important indicators, since consumer spending accounts for two-thirds of the nation`s growth. 

 Susan Lisovicz has more. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 SUSAN LISOVICZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Not since Richard Nixon was a front-runner to replace Lyndon Johnson and Joe Namath was at the top of his game have Americans felt better about their own economic situation. 

 KATHLEEN CAMILLI, TUCKER ANTHONY: They have jobs and they have a growing income. We have created thousands and thousands of entrepreneurs in America over the course of the last 10 years, and those people are working and thriving and doing very well. And it`s  created really quite a glorious extended economic expansion. 

 LISOVICZ: The Conference Board`s consumer confidence index jumped more than four points this month to its highest level since October of 1968. The latest survey of 5,000 households also shows more Americans than ever believe business conditions are good and jobs are plentiful. The clearest evidence of that confidence hit the malls this month, with many retailers reporting a big jump in holiday sales. 

 JOSEPH LAVORGNA, DEUTSCHE BANK: In the past, the reading of about 110 on a Conference Board confidence index was considered high and consistent with very strong consumption. Now, we`ve gotten the index up to 140 and change, and that certainly tells us that consumption isn`t going to slow much from already a very, very strong 5 percent plus annual rate. 

 LISOVICZ (on camera): An increasing number of those surveyed by the Conference Board expressed concern about their job future and more than two-thirds say they believe their wages will just hold steady or even fall in the months ahead. But so far, those concerns have not slowed spending. 

 (voice-over): Americans are riding high as the century draws to a close. But as Namath and Nixon learned, the good times don`t last forever. 

 Susan Lisovicz, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: Next on MONEYLINE, the Nasdaq did not conquer Wall Street today, but it did take Times Square by storm. The stock exchange throwing the switch on its new marketsite tower. Now we`re going to talk with CEO Frank Zarb about cracking 4K, beating Y2K and challenging the Big Board. 

 We`ll be back. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: In Times Square today, an electrifying moment for the Nasdaq stock exchange. CEO Frank Zarb, along with New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, lit up the crossroads of the world, christening the Nasdaq`s new marketsite tower. But that`s just one of the many developments for the stock exchange that`s watched its flagship index shatter more than a record a week on average this year. 

 CEO Frank Zarb joins us now from Times Square to talk about the push to 4000 and troubleshooting ahead of Y2K. 

 Frank, welcome to the program. 

 FRANK ZARB, CEO, NAT. ASSN. OF SECURITIES DEALERS INC. (NASD): Nice to see you again, Stuart. 

 VARNEY: It`s been a great year, hasn`t it - 4000 on the Nasdaq; Nasdaq stocks on the Dow; and now, a big splashy building in Times Square. Congratulations. 

 ZARB: Thanks very much. It has been quite a good year. 

 VARNEY: What does the Big Board say about that big thing that`s right behind you there? 

 ZARB: I haven`t asked them, but I`ll call them first thing in the morning. 

 VARNEY: Does it stay after New Year`s Eve? Is that going to be lit up forever right there? 

 ZARB: It will be lit up forever, including New Year`s Eve, and during market hours, it will reflect exactly what`s going on in the market. It will be interactive so you`ll be able to call on your cell phone and get a quote. And off market times, it will be used by our issuers to communicate with their investors. 

 VARNEY: I have to ask you: Did you ever think that this year the Nasdaq would hit 3000, let alone 4000? Did you really think that one year ago today? 

 ZARB: I`d like to say yes, but the truthful answer is absolutely not. 

 VARNEY: Now, can you give us what I`m going to call a "cast-iron" guarantee that the Nasdaq trading system will function properly come next Monday morning? 

 ZARB: Stuart, we`ve done everything that humanly can be done to make sure that happens, and we fully expect it to. We`re running tests right through the weekend with a number of our market makers. We`re actually going to be running the marketplace on Saturday with market makers theoretically trading between themselves to check out all of the systems. We`re going to be alert to the international exchanges. As you know, a good many of them will open before we do. And we`re going to be watching them as they open on Sunday before the Monday morning open, because in many cases we are interconnected. 

 But right at the moment, we can see pretty clear sailing. 

 VARNEY: I take it, then, that a problem overseas in a financial market could not sort of infect your market, for want of a better word? 

 ZARB: Well, there can -- there can be a disruption of some sort, but certainly not a very major and significant effect on us. Nevertheless, we have to be alert to it. 

 VARNEY: Now, the Big Board would just love to see Microsoft (URL: http://www.microsoft.com/) and Intel (URL: http://www.intel.com/) and others migrate to that exchange and away from yours. What are you going to do to keep them where you are? 

 ZARB: Well, we`re going to be seeing some migration the other way. And that`s probably -- what does the fella say? The best defense is a good offense. 

 VARNEY: Would you like to elaborate on that? 

 ZARB: Well, with -- once we eliminate the rule 500, which prohibits companies from moving from the New York Stock Exchange --it`s an ancient, old rule -- once that happens, then companies that are listed there will feel free to move on to the Nasdaq stock market, and I`m sure they will. 

 VARNEY: Your forecast is, is that`s what we will be seeing in the Year 2000? 

 ZARB: I expect that to be correct. 

 VARNEY: And 5000 on the Nasdaq: Can you give us a timeframe on that, Frank? 

 ZARB: That one I`m going to beg off on, because that`s not my business. I can make sure that we handle it, and whether we go to 2 billion or 4 billion or 8 billion shares, that we can do. But I can`t tell you what the market is going to go to tomorrow. 

 VARNEY: Well, sir, congratulations on the new tower right behind you, looks terrific. And we thank you very much for joining us on MONEYLINE. 

 ZARB: Thanks, Stuart. Nice talking to you again. 

 VARNEY: Frank Zarb. 

 ZARB: Bye. 

 VARNEY: Thank you, sir. 

 Elsewhere on the corporate front, Jostens (URL: http://www.jostens.com/) -- that`s the maker of school rings and yearbooks -- has been sold to a private investor group, Investcorp. The pricetag: about $850 million. That`s more than $25 a share. 

 Jostens shares climbed nearly six points on that news. 

 Apparel maker, Warnaco (URL: http://www.warnaco.com/) predicts a profit shortfall. The company says it`ll earn about 50 cents less than forecast for fiscal year 1999. 

 DaimlerChrysler (URL: http://www.daimlerchrysler.com) says it had a mighty `99, with record sales and profits in its first full year as a combined company, and the carmaker projected revenues to rise further next year. Daimler gained 1 1/2 today, but the stock is still down 22 percent this year. 

 Turning to a sector that was red-hot today after a sluggish year on Wall Street -- we are talking about paper stocks. Analysts say the industry is going through a cyclical recovery after the stocks have been beaten down for months. Dow component International Paper (URL: http://www.ipaper.com/) , along with Champion (URL: http://www.championpaper.com/) International, Bowater (URL: http://www.bowater.com/) and Mead (URL: http://www.mead.com) , all of them sharply higher on the day. 

 Next on MONEYLINE, that mighty `99 that goes far beyond the borders of Wall Street. We`ll look at stellar gains in markets that seemed on the edge of disaster just a year ago. The global comeback --will it stretch into the new millennium? 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Checking some of today`s big stock movers: Internet Gold (URL: http://www.zahav.net.il/) surged 13 7/8. Israel`s leading Internet service provider has joined forces with Microsoft (URL: http://www.microsoft.com/) to form MSN Israel, a Hebrew language Web portal. 

 Centennial Cellular (URL: http://www.centannialcomm.com) roared 29 1/2 after the telecom service provider late yesterday announced a three-for-one stock split. Amgen (URL: http://www.amgen.com/) rallied 4 1/2 after Salomon Smith Barney repeated a buy rating on the biotech stock and raised its price target to $70 a share. Other biotechs followed Amgen higher as well, they include Gilead Sciences (URL: http://www.gilead.com/) , MedImmune (URL: http://www.medimmune.com/) , Sepracor (URL: http://www.sepracor.com/) and King Pharmaceuticals (URL: http://www.kingpharm.com/) . 

 In tonight`s MONEYLINE focus, the market winners of a mighty `99. Wall Street`s dream run this year was dominated by headlines, but investor euphoria hasn`t been confined to lower Manhattan. Markets around the globe have bounded back in `99, after two years of crises. 

 Bill Dorman reports. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 BILL DORMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Fear and greed move markets. 1999 saw a lot of both in world stock markets, starting with fear in Latin America. After Brazil floated its currency and adopted financial reforms in January, its stock market began to recover from its lowest level in years. In the last week of 1999, Brazil`s Bovespa index has more than doubled since January. Some economists expect that recovery theme to continue around most of the world in the new year. 

 STEPHEN ROACH, MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER: The global economy  is coming back big time. Europe has come back, Latin America`s come back, non-Japan Asia has come back with a vengeance. All of this paints a picture of next year being the most solid year in  the global economy since 1988. 

 DORMAN: Europe looks strong. A partial list of European stock markets hitting new records in late December reads like a travelogue: Frankfurt, London, Paris, Milan, Amsterdam, Madrid, Helsinki. And a lot of money managers say the rallies still have further to go as they follow the U.S. appetite for technology issues. 

 MIKE YOUNG, GOLDMAN SACHS: As you look forward into 2000, European equity markets are likely to outperform the U.S., both in local currency terms and in a common currency. 

 DORMAN: Europe`s biggest winner in 1999 -- a shocker -- Russia. The market is thinly traded and not very liquid, but the Moscow Times index is up nearly 300% on the year, and is now trading higher than it was before the country plunged into financial crisis in the summer of 1998. Less dramatic, but still impressive results in Asia, where some countries that gave investors fits a year ago have begun financial reforms, and are now providing many happy returns. Indonesia`s main stock index is up more than 70 percent. Hong Kong, up nearly 70 percent. Singapore, ahead by more than 75 percent. Seoul up more than 80 percent with opportunities still remaining for the careful investor. 

 MARK HEADLEY, MATTHEWS KOREA FUND: A year ago, you were still concerned about the financial viability of a lot of the companies you were investing in. Today, you`re looking at companies and you`re wondering, you know, is the earnings growth really going to be there? Do they have the right strategies? It`s how successful will they be in a new economy within Korea, versus whether or not are they going to make it. 

 DORMAN: Among the world`s biggest markets, Japan`s main stock index is up more than a third this year, although it has not been a steady rise. And next year, Japan`s neighbors may do better than Tokyo. 

 MARIA RAMIREZ, MARIA FIORINI RAMIREZ, INC.: Outside of Japan, the rest of Asia`s going to do really well next year, but within Japan, economic growth is probably going to be one of the poorest in Asia. 

 DORMAN: Despite the gains in 1999, Tokyo`s Nikkei average is still trading at less than half its level of 10 years ago. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 DORMAN: Continuing concern about Japan is one cautious note about this coming year. Another is whether growth around the globe may be too fast, leading to the world`s biggest rally-killer: inflation --Stuart. 

 VARNEY: Inflation, we got it. 

 Bill Dorman reporting. Thank you, Bill. 

 Next on MONEYLINE: As the world recovered in 1999, there was one thing investors had little use for -- U.S. treasuries. Inside what was a punishing bear market for bonds. That`s next. 

 VARNEY: 1999 was a mighty year indeed for Wall Street, Main Street, and once-troubled markets across the globe. But it was an ugly year in the Chicago trading pits, where bonds just couldn`t lure investors  away from the big returns at the stock market. 

 Ceci Rodgers reports from Chicago. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 CECI RODGERS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): For bond investors, 1999 has been a bust. Prices plunged and interest rates soared, as investors dumped all kinds of debt, corporates, junk, munis, and especially treasuries. Even their safe-haven status proved anything but, as the yield on the 30-year benchmark bond climbed steadily from just over 5 percent in January to nearly 6.5 percent now. 

 In all, returns on long-term treasuries plummeted nearly 15 percent, the worst drop on record. Including other kinds of bonds, 1999 has been the second worst year after the 1994 bear market. 

 JOHN LONSKI, MOODY`S INVESTORS SERVICE: What weighed heavily on the performance of treasury bonds in 1999 was the much stronger-than- anticipated showing not only of the U.S. Economy, but the world in general. 

 RODGERS: Overseas economies began to rebound from a two-year global financial crisis, adding steam to a roaring U.S. economy. The Federal Reserve began worrying about a resurgence of inflation and raised interest rates three times. That`s far less aggressive than the seven rate hikes the Fed carried out during the `94 bond debacle. 

 So why has the bond market been in such a funk? The answer is as simple as the laws of supply and demand. 

 ANTHONY CRESCENZI, MILLER, TABAK & CO.: Competition for capital strained the bond market, because money was allocated away toward economic ventures such as lending, such as buying plants and equipment. Money was pulled away from the bond market to go toward the equity market, where the allure was quite attractive. 

 RODGERS: Emerging-market bonds were the exception, soaring nearly 25 percent this year, in a rebound from severely depressed 1998 levels. For U.S. corporate and tax-free municipal bonds, returns were negative. High-yield bonds fared better, up 1.5 percent on the year, but that was still their second-worst performance on record. 

 Few expect a reversal for bonds anytime soon, with the economy and stock market still barreling along. The 30-year yield is hovering just below 6.5 percent, a more than two-year high. 

 JEROME LACEY, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: If you liked them at 6 1/4, you`ll love them at 6 1/2, and I guess that you can probably make the same argument if the Fed keeps the breaks on, if you like them at 6 1/2, you`ll love them at 7. 

 RODGERS: Unless the economy cools off abruptly, most analysts  expect the Fed to raise interest rates at its February meeting and perhaps again in March. 

 (on camera): It may be cold comfort to bond investors, but back- to-back losing years are rare. In fact, the last ones came just before stocks and bonds began their historic bull run in 1982. 

 Ceci Rodgers, CNN Financial News, Chicago. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: Economists did not predict such an awful year for bonds. In fact, an overwhelming number of them expected the supercharged economy to slow, and as a result, for interest rates to fall. In the outlook `99 edition of "Barron`s" last January, the average forecast put the 30-year bond yield at 4.85 percent on December 31. Well, tonight, it stands at 6.47 percent. 

 Joining me now is one surprised economist, Mickey Levy of Bank of America (URL: http://www.bankamerica.com/) . Welcome back to MONEYLINE, Mickey. 

 MICKEY LEVY, BANK OF AMERICA: Thank you. 

 VARNEY: I want to add a caveat here. In each of the last five  years I know that you have correctly forecast the direction of interest rates. So do it again now. 

 LEVY: Well, I think bond yields are going to stay at about their current level through mid year. I think the Fed has a couple more tightenings left, but then the economy will moderate and bond yields will drift down in the second half of the year, maybe toward 6 percent by year end. 

 VARNEY: So the direction then, overall, for the entire year will be down from where we are now in interest rates, correct? 

 LEVY: That`s correct. 

 VARNEY: Don`t want to tie you down too tightly there, but that`s what you`re saying? 

 LEVY: Please do. 

 VARNEY: Will the economy slow? 

 LEVY: It will slow gradually with a slowdown in domestic demand, but a pickup in exports that will lead to a narrowing trade deficit, so the real slowdown is going to come in the second half of the year. The Fed tightening, the slowdown of money will cumulatively effect the economy. 

 VARNEY: So your forecast is that we have got great momentum in economic growth that`ll carry us through the first couple of quarters, the Fed kicks in with a couple of rate hikes, we slow, down come yields, that`s your forecast for the year 2000? 

 LEVY: That`s right. Right now, with the Fed keeping the inflation about 2, 2 1/4, that leaves real rates about 4 1/4, which is already built in strong economic growth. Once the Fed tightening starts to take hold, the rate of economic growth moderates, those rates come down. VARNEY: Inflation, will it go above 3 percent for calendar year 2000? 

 LEVY: No, it won`t. It might drift up very modestly, but it`ll stay shy of 2 1/2 percent. 

 VARNEY: The unemployment rate, will it fall below 4 percent? 

 LEVY: It may well. And as long as there`s continued strong product demand... 

 VARNEY: You`re hedging, you`re hedging. It may well -- will it or won`t it fall below 4 percent? 

 LEVY: Temporarily, yes, as long as businesses have product demand they`re going to have to hire to produce those goods. 

 VARNEY: Is America still moving way from our principle economic competitors? Are we pulling away from the rest of the pack, or are they now catching up? 

 LEVY: In certain technological areas, the U.S. is pulling away, but if you look at the aggregate numbers, European growth is accelerating, Asian growth is strong, South American growth, which has been a recession, is picking up. So we`re seeing a rebalance of worldwide economic output with the U.S. continuing to grow at a healthy pace, but not leading the pack as it was. 

 VARNEY: Mickey Levy, Bank of America, thanks very much for being with us, and a rosy forecast indeed. Thank you, Mickey. 

 Up next, "Ahead of the Curve," some of what you need to know tonight before the markets open tomorrow. 

 Yes, you`re watching MONEYLINE. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Here`s a preview of what`s happening in the business world tomorrow: Look for a forecast of economic conditions six to nine  months down the road with the index of leading economic indicators. Economists are predicting an increase of maybe .3 percent, suggesting the long-running economic expansion will continue well into the new year. 

 This brief Web site programming note: All this week on CNNfn.com, a special series on this amazing century of wealth, where we`ve been, how we got here, and most importantly, the future of investing in the new millennium. That`s all this week at CNNfn.com. 

 And that is MONEYLINE for this Tuesday night. I`m Stuart Varney. And we thank you for joining us. Good night from New York. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 1999 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by Federal Document Clearing House, Inc. No license is granted to  the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one  copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or   interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as  they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material.  This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document mnyl000020010828dvcs000bl




 RESEARCH ALERT-DuPont Photomasks  cut . 

110 words
23 December 1999
15:29
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 23 (Reuters) - Credit Suisse First Boston Thursday said it cut its fiscal 2000 earnings estimate on DuPont Photomasks Inc. to $1.40 a share from $1.80, following the company's profit warning on Tuesday. 

 DuPont Photomasks said it expected earnings would be half of Wall Street's consensus estimate as a result of weaker revenues in North America and Europe. 

 - Analyst Elliott Rogers said difficulties ramping up new capacity resulted in weaker revenues. 

 - Shares were trading at 47, up four in early trading on Nasdaq. The stock fell sharply Wednesday. ((New York technology desk, 212-859-1860)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dvcn07nlu




BUSINESS
BANK ONE'S CEO, CHAIRMAN RESIGNS

Vernon Silver, Bloomberg News   
743 words
22 December 1999
Charlotte Observer (NC)
CLTO
ONE-THREE
1D
English
Copyright 1999 The Charlotte Observer. All rights reserved.   

Bank One Corp. Chairman and Chief Executive John B. McCoy, who built the fifth-largest U.S. bank through acquisitions, resigned Tuesday after his purchase of a credit card company backfired, hurting profit and cutting the bank's stock by almost half in four months.

Bank One stock rose as much as 13 percent after the bank said it's seeking a replacement for McCoy, 56, ending the dynasty that ran the bank for three generations, starting with McCoy's grandfather.

McCoy's resignation comes after Bank One warned twice in less than three months earlier this year that trouble in its credit card unit would hurt earnings. Before the announcement, Bank One shares were down 47 percent since Aug. 22. They rose $3.31 1/4 to $33.18 3/4 Tuesday on the New York Stock Exchange.

"He takes the heat because he's the top guy," said Jerry Condon, chief investment officer at Chittenden Bank in Burlington, Vt., who sold his Bank One shares after the profit warnings. "They handled the (credit card) business in a lousy fashion."

Verne G. Istock, 59, the bank's president and its former chairman, was elected acting chief executive, a position he will hold until a replacement is found for McCoy. The bank plans to find a permanent chairman and CEO "in the next few months," it said in a statement.

The bank's board elected John R. Hall, 67, the retired chairman and chief executive of Ashland Inc., the largest U.S. highway builder, as non-executive chairman in the interim.

The bank twice warned that 1999 earnings would be below analysts' forecasts because of slower-than-expected growth at its Wilmington, Del.-based credit card unit, First USA Inc. Chicago-based Bank One said First USA, purchased two years ago, is losing customers to competition, forcing it to cut prices and spend more on marketing and hiring.

Bank One was formed last year when Istock merged his First Chicago NBD Corp. with McCoy's Banc One Corp. While it was called a merger of equals, many saw it as a takeover by Banc One, whose CEO, McCoy, ran the moneymaking businesses in the new bank.

It was McCoy's Banc One that in June 1997 bought First USA, the unit that's causing earnings trouble. Credit cards contribute about 30 percent of earnings at Bank One, which is the No. 2 credit card issuer in the world.

Since the profit problems began, the bank has been the subject of speculation it might be purchased, and McCoy's departure raises the possibility the bank's board may be more open to a merger, analysts said.

"Now they are free to consider all alternatives, including the sale of the company," said Anthony Polini, a bank analyst at Advest Inc. "With McCoy at the helm, he made it pretty clear that Bank One was not for sale."

McCoy's departure caps a year in which almost all of Bank One's top management slowly left the company as troubles mounted. Of the five top executives, only Istock remains.

It started in July, when Vice Chairman David Vitale, who ran commercial banking, said he'd retire. He was replaced by another vice chairman, Richard Lehman, who quit in October. A few days later, the bank announced the resignation of Richard Vague, who ran credit cards and online banking - and who was the chief at First USA when McCoy bought it.

Also in October, McCoy's duties running the bank's main businesses were diminished, signaling the beginning of the end. While the CEO took the additional title of chairman, he was appointed to oversee internal functions such as human resources, along with credit cards and consumer lending.

At the time, Istock gave up the title of chairman and became president, while taking over core businesses such as corporate and retail banking. He will now be among those considered as a possible candidate for chairman and chief executive in the board's search, the bank said.

Whatever the resolution, some shareholders are angry. Tuesday they filed two lawsuits against Bank One, claiming the company concealed information about its earnings to artificially inflate its stock price. The suits, filed in federal court in Chicago, claim the company made false statements about its financial results leading up to its second profit warning on Nov. 10.

Photo McCoy   

Document CLTO000020090630dvcm004ua




 Business; Financial Desk 
 Company Town Bank One's McCoy Resigns From Chairman, CEO Posts Credit: The acquisition of First USA hurt profit and slashed stock. His leaving marks the end of a three-generation dynasty. 

From Bloomberg News
497 words
22 December 1999
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-5
English
 Copyright 1999 / The Times Mirror Company 

 CHICAGO -- Bank One Corp. Chairman and Chief Executive John B. McCoy, who built the fifth-largest U.S. bank through acquisitions, resigned Tuesday after his purchase of a credit-card company backfired, hurting profit and cutting the bank's stock by almost half in four months. 

 Bank One stock rose nearly 11% after the bank said it's seeking a replacement for McCoy, 56, ending the dynasty that ran the bank for three generations, starting with McCoy's grandfather. 

 McCoy's resignation comes after Bank One warned twice in less than three months earlier this year that trouble in its credit-card unit, First USA, would hurt earnings. First USA, purchased two years ago, has been losing customers to competition, forcing it to cut prices and spend more on marketing and hiring, the company said. 

 Before the announcement of McCoy's departure, Bank One shares were down 47% since Aug. 22. They rose $3.33, or 11%, to close at $33.31 on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Verne G. Istock, 59, the bank's president and its former chairman, was elected acting chief executive, a position he will hold until a replacement is found for McCoy. The bank plans to find a permanent chairman and CEO "in the next few months," it said in a statement. 

 The bank's board elected John R. Hall, 67, the retired chairman and chief executive of Ashland Inc., the largest U.S. highway builder, as nonexecutive chairman in the interim. 

 Chicago-based Bank One was formed last year when Istock merged his First Chicago NBD Corp. with McCoy's Banc One Corp. While it was called a merger of equals, many saw it as a takeover by Banc One, whose CEO McCoy ran the moneymaking businesses in the new bank. 

 It was McCoy's Banc One that in June 1997 bought First USA. Credit cards contribute about 30% of earnings at Bank One, which is the No. 2 credit-card issuer in the world. 

 Since the profit problems began, the bank has been the subject of speculation it might be purchased, and McCoy's departure raised the possibility that the bank's board may be more open to a merger, analysts said. 

 "Now they are free to consider all alternatives, including the sale of the company," said Anthony Polini, a bank analyst at Advest Inc. "With McCoy at the helm, he made it pretty clear that Bank One was not for sale." 

 Also Tuesday, shareholders filed two lawsuits against Bank One, contending the company concealed information about its earnings to artificially inflate its stock price. The suits, filed in federal court in Chicago, claim the company made false statements about its financial results leading up to its second profit warning Nov. 10. 

Document latm000020010828dvcm02dts




 3Com shares drop on  profit warning , analysts' outlooks. 

335 words
22 December 1999
15:56
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 22 (Reuters) - Shares of computer equipment makeR 3Com Inc.  fell about 15 percent on Wednesday after three brokerage houses altered their forecasts amid concern over profit growth and year 2000 computer issues. 

 3Com shares fell 8-1/8 to 45 in Wednesday morning trading, a day after the company said it expects third-quarter profits to be "comparable" with a year ago as a seasonal downturn and year 2000 concerns take their toll. 

 After the markets closed Tuesday, 3Com reported second-quarter earnings of 37 cents per share, compared with 36 cents last year, beating the Wall Street consensus estimate of 34 cents, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Merrill Lynch said Wednesday it was lowering 2000 estimates to $1.30 per share from $1.37, and estimates for 2001 to $1.60 from $1.70. 

 Merrill said despite strong performance in the hand-held devices segment, operating expenses are expected to increase in preparation for the spinoff of its Palm handheld computer business. The Palm IPO is on track for early calendar 2000, the company has said. 

 Merrill also noted concern over the Network Systems segment, due to disappointing results after delays in new product introduction. 

 Lehman Brothers analyst Tim Luke lowered his view for fiscal 2000 to $1.34 per share from $1.38. 

 "We remain cautious on the growth prospects of the remaining business segments for 3Com," Luke said. "While the company has made great strides in targeting high growth areas such as broadband access ... we believe near-term challenges remain for the legacy businesses." 

 Warburg Dillon Read analyst Anton Wahlman, however, raised his 12-month price target to 59 from 34 in light of the network-gear maker's "good quarter." 

 Wednesday's morning selloff dropped 3Com shares to a level last seen at the beginning of December. Since early November, the shares have risen from just under 30. 

 (( - New York Equities Newsdesk, (212) 859-1671)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dvcm07r0i




 FOCUS - DuPont Photomasks  profit warning  costs stock. 

788 words
22 December 1999
21:35
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 22 (Reuters) - DuPont Photomasks Inc.  shares fell as much as one-third on Wednesday after the world's top maker of semiconductor circuit printing equipment warned profits for the current quarter would fall short of expectations, despite signs of solid industry-wide growth. 

 Late Tuesday, the company, a 1996 spinoff of U.S. chemicals group DuPont Co. , said it expected earnings for its second quarter ended December of 19 to 24 cents per share - just half of what Wall Street analysts had expected. 

 In response, shares of DuPont tumbled sharply, falling 17-1/8 points to close at 43, down 28 percent on the day, during Nasdaq stock market trading on Wednesday. 

 The analysts' profit consensus had centred on 44 cents per share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial, which compiles brokerage estimates. By contrast, the company had reported earnings of 20 cents a share in the year-ago quarter. 

 The Round Rock, Texas-based company said second-quarter revenues would rise a disappointing 15 to 17 percent from the year-earlier quarter's $61.9 million, which it blamed on lower revenues in North America and Europe. 

 "Our earnings result is principally driven by lower-than-expected revenues in North America and Europe," interim Chief Executive Marshall Turner said in a statement announcing the shortfall. 

 "Our earlier decision to prioritize capital toward aggressive expansion in Asia and key acquisitions delayed our high-end capacity expansion domestically," he said of its sluggish performance in the United States market. 

 Turner also said costs have increased as DuPont Photomask invested to position itself for expected industry growth. He said the company should see stronger growth in the second half of 2000. 

 DuPont Photomasks is the world's leading maker of photomasks, the equipment used to print microscopic circuits onto silicon wafers. The chip-making industry is undergoing a sea change as it migrates to ever-smaller processes and photomasks are crucial to this advance. 

 Its shortfall contrasted sharply with the signs of strength seen among semiconductor equipment makers that produce the precision machinery and tools that semiconductor manufacturers use to design, build, assemble and test computer chips. 

 The sector has surged this week after Novellus Systems Inc. , another leading maker of chip production equipment, said its business was booming and it would exceed Wall Street's financial forecasts. 

 Analysts believe the typically boom-and-bust industry is ending the first year of what could be a three to four year upswing, reversing a four-year dryspell in which chip makers spent very little on new plants after a 1995 production glut. 

 Semiconductor equipment makers have also headed higher on signs that Intel Corp. , the world's top chip maker, had begun awarding contracts for chip production equipment it will need to produce a new generation of silicon wafers. 

 "Chip manufacturers continue to increase capital spending budgets due to tight capacity," Lehman Brothers analyst Ed White said in a research note on the industry's outlook. "These higher capital expenditures translate into strong order momentum at the chip equipment manufacturers." 

 Also Wednesday, DuPont Photomask said it had signed a definitive deal to buy an International Business Machines Corp.  joint-venture semiconductor equipment plant in France for about $40 million. 

 Under the deal, DuPont Photomasks will acquire the plant in Corbeil-Essonnes from Altis Semiconductor, a joint venture between IBM and Infineon Technologies, the chip-making unit of Germany's Siemens AG . 

 DuPont Photomasks and IBM also announced they agreed to a multi-year, global supply deal under which DuPont Photomasks would produce a significant portion of the photomask requirements IBM does not build itself. 

 The deal for the French plant will close on Dec. 31. DuPont Photomask said it would run the existing operation in place and plans to begin construction of a new facility at the site to meet current and future needs of the European market. 

 DuPont Photomasks, which had revenue of $264 million in the year ended in June, said the acquisition would boost its revenues 6 to 9 percent. The deal initially will be neutral to earnings and will become accretive over time, it said. 

 Brett Hodess, an analyst with Banc of America Securities in San Francisco, said in a research note he expected the acquisition of the IBM European operation to help the company's sales growth to recover by March. 

 However, he said the inclusion of the French photomask business in DuPont's operations would cut into its profit margins in the coming year and the sales and margin growth outlook for rival photomask maker Photronics Inc.  was "a better bet right now." 

 ((-Eric Auchard, New York newsdesk, 212-859-1840)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dvcm07mx0




 Global Corporate Report: Xerox Faces Mounting Competition --- Canon Cuts Into Copier Market Share 

 By John Hechinger 
Staff Reporter
597 words
21 December 1999
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
8
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 Ron Beliveau, a regional controller with First American Title Insurance Co. in Phoenix, recently shelled out $130,000 (128,940 euros) for four corporate copy machines and other equipment. But he didn't even consider Xerox Corp., the company whose name is synonymous with copying. 

 Neither did Peter Santora, purchasing director with Josephthal & Co., a New York securities firm. Both chose rival Canon Inc., a Japanese company that has made a big push into the office copier market this year. 

 "Xerox has the outstanding name," says Mr. Santora, whose company signed a $27,000-a-month leasing deal with Canon. "But over the past few years, they've kind of let things slip." 

 Two weeks ago, Xerox shocked Wall Street when it issued a warning that its fourth-quarter profit would fall far short of expectations, citing a host of problems. Among them: corporations putting off technology spending because of worries about year-2000 glitches, turmoil in Brazil and a poorly executed reorganization of its sales force. 

 Far down the list of reasons Xerox gave, and mentioned only briefly: intensifying competition. Yet some analysts say that is a more serious long-term problem for the company. 

 "They are losing market share," says Philip Rueppel, an analyst with Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown. "It concerns me more than it concerns management." 

 Mr. Rueppel and other analysts are focusing on rivals' efforts to cut into Xerox's domination of the corporate copy machine, especially the newer digital copiers. 

 These computerized copiers, often connected to a network of personal computers, are faster and more reliable than the old-fashioned stand-alone variety. Midrange models sell from $3,500 to $50,000 and can spew out anywhere from 20 to 60 copies a minute. Bigger and faster machines can cost hundreds of thousands of dollars. 

 In March, Canon introduced a new line of digital copiers, beefing up its ImageRunner series, which targets the mid-range corporate market. Canon executives say they are shipping 10,000 units a month more than Xerox, in comparable lines -- becoming No. 1 in volume in the fourth quarter to date. "We are now able to compete with Xerox in ways we haven't been able to compete before," says Timothy Andree, a Canon USA vice president. 

 Independent statistics for 1999 to back up Canon's claim couldn't be found. In 1998 in the U.S., Xerox was the No. 1 seller of black-and-white digital copiers, with 37% of new copier sales, or 135,000 units, according to International Data Corp. But many analysts say Canon, which ranked No. 4, could take the top spot this year. 

 Gil Hatch, president of Xerox's office-systems group, says talk of Canon's challenge has been overstated -- in part because the digital market is growing so fast; he expects Xerox sales in the segment to be up 40% this year from 1998. "The digital market is exploding," he said, adding that "our sales remain robust." 

 In the first half, he says, internal projections show Xerox's share had risen to the mid-40% level. In the second half, however, he says the company felt the impact of new competition. Mr. Hatch says second-half market share will slip slightly, especially in the higher-end printers that make 60 to 92 pages a minute. 

 In its warning two weeks ago, Xerox said it expects fourth-quarter net income will be 40% lower than analysts' consensus expectations of 66 cents. 

Document wsje000020010830dvcl00jkg




 INTERVIEW-Austria's AHT sees robust 2000 recovery. 

 By Julia Ferguson 
626 words
21 December 1999
10:36
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 ROTTENMANN, Austria, Dec 21 (Reuters) - Austria Haustechnik (AHT), a maker of refrigeration systems, is forecasting double-digit profit growth for next year thanks to an improvement in market conditions and the launch of new products. 

 AHT rattled investors in November with a profit warning on 1999 results after posting continually strong earnings growth over the past few years. 

 The group expects to see a slight decline in 1999 operating profit after posting a 120 percent jump the previous year. The news sent AHT's share price reeling from a year high of 37.25 euros to 18 euros at Monday's close. 

 The group attributed the downward revision of its current year forecast to a consolidation in the supermarket sector which paralysed investment, and the postponement of a large order from one of its customers. 

 "We would actually have met our 1999 target had this customer not postponed," said Finance Director Franz-Walter Wiest, member of the three-person management board. 

 "But this order should now go ahead in part next year, so we're expecting to post double-digit profit growth in 2000 compared to 1999," he told Reuters. 

 Compared to its peers, AHT stock comes cheap with a price/earnings ratio of 6.9 times 2000 estimates, while Linde trades on 18.2, Hussmann on 11.8 and Electrolux on 13. 

 COOL BUSINESS 

 AHT's core business is the manufacturing of chilling and freezing systems for supermarkets, as well as ice cream chests and drinks dispensers. 

 For 2000, it expects to generate 59 percent of group sales from supermarkets, 22 percent from the ice cream industry, and 14 percent in bottle and can coolers - a sharp rise from this year's three percent. 

 It is dramatically scaling back its industrial subcontracting business, such as the production of cases for lawnmowers and televisions, to concentrate on its core business. In 2000, AHT expects to generate just five percent of sales from industrial subcontracting from 20 percent last year. 

 Board member Almut Nele Graefe said that despite a temporary setback in the retail sector's investments, AHT was well placed to profit from a pick-up. 

 "At the moment we've got a sales decline because the whole situation in the industry is so restrained with investing, although this will not last. But on the other hand this is a great opportunity for us as we are by far the most favourable supplier with these systems," Graefe said. 

 "It's also important to note that we've lost no customers to competitors and it's simply the case that investment in equipment has stagnated because people are waiting," she added. 

 AHT expects to see a recovery in the supermarket sector in the second quarter of 2000. 

 The group, which has boosted its share of the German deep-freezing market to around 20 percent from 0.5 percent seven years ago, said it was benefiting from the expansion of German supermarket chains abroad. 

 "Chains like Aldi are going more and more into European countries and they take us with them," Wiest said. 

 AHT exports around 90 percent of its products and Germany constitutes by far its biggest market, representing 60 percent of exports. 

 Wiest said AHT would also profit from the fact that market shares were being loosened up as some competitors withdrew. 

 "Market shares are disappearing. Italy's Mondial for example has withdrawn from the market and we know that next year someone's going to disappear in Denmark. Meanwhile others are concentrating more on other segments." 

 "We just have to make sure that we're better than the competition in order to get through this period of consolidation," Wiest added. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dvcl07t2c




 Corporate News 
 Dole Food Warns Over Earnings For the Quarter 

 By Frederic M. Biddle 
Staff Reporter
415 words
20 December 1999
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
3
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 WESTLAKE VILLAGE, California -- Dole Food Co. said it expects earnings from continuing operations to range from two U.S. cents to four U.S. cents (two European cents to four European cents) a share for the quarter ended Dec. 31., far below consensus estimates of 16 cents a share. 

 Friday's profit warning, the latest in a string of bad news from the food company, followed Dole's announcement last month that it will reduce its world-wide banana operations and take a $30 million to $40 million charge in the quarter. A year earlier, Dole posted a net loss of $108 million, or $1.82 a diluted share, on revenue of $1.40 billion. The loss from continuing operations then was 13 cents a share. 

 The shortfall means Dole also will miss the latest consensus estimate of $1.31 a share for the year, which had already been cut from $1.40 a share. For the whole of 1998, the company posted earnings of $12 million, or 20 cents a diluted share, on revenue of $4.40 billion. 

 Dole blamed its troubles mainly on lower banana pricing in Europe as a result of quotas the European Union has imposed to protect production of the fruit in its former colonies in the Caribbean and elsewhere. Although banana-producing Caribbean nations earlier this month advanced a U.S.-backed plan that would set up a two-tier import system, the dispute remains unresolved. 

 The company also cited consolidation costs in its fresh-cut flower division established last year. For the first time, Dole also cited lower-than-expected commodity lettuce prices in North America. A statement released Friday after the markets closed said, however, that "earnings in its core businesses are in line with or better than previous estimates." 

 Chief Executive David H. Murdock said, "We are encouraged by the upward trend in quarterly earnings from our worldwide banana operations" and the strength of its core businesses, which at least are rebounding from a series of natural calamities last year, including Hurricane Mitch. 

 Last week, No. 2 U.S. banana producer Chiquita Brands International Inc., based in Cincinnati, separately warned of a wider-than-expected fourth-quarter loss, and said it expects to omit its dividend as a cost-cutting measure. 

 In New York Stock Exchange trading Friday, Dole shares fell 3.9%, or 56.25 cents, to $13.8125. 

Document wsje000020010830dvck00m7p




Corporate Focus
 Xerox Faces Mounting Challenge to Copier Business --- Canon and Others  Cut  Into Market Share, Especially for Digital Machines 

 By John Hechinger 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
1,047 words
17 December 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
B4
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 Ron Beliveau, a regional controller with First American Title Insurance Co. in Phoenix, recently shelled out $130,000 for four corporate copy machines and other equipment. But he didn't even consider Xerox Corp., the company whose name is synonymous with copying. 

 Neither did Peter Santora, purchasing director with Josephthal & Co., a New York securities firm. Both chose rival Canon Inc., a Japanese company that has made a big push into the office copier market this year. 

 "Xerox has the outstanding name," says Mr. Santora, whose company signed a $27,000-a-month leasing deal with Canon. "But over the past few years, they've kind of let things slip." 

 Last week, Xerox shocked Wall Street when it issued a warning that its fourth-quarter profit would fall far short of expectations, citing a host of problems. Among them: corporations putting off technology spending because of worries about year 2000 glitches, turmoil in Brazil and a poorly executed reorganization of its sales force. 

 Far down the list of reasons Xerox gave, and mentioned only briefly: intensifying competition. Yet some analysts say that is a more serious long-term problem for the company. 

 "They are losing market share," says Philip Rueppel, an analyst with Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown. "It concerns me more than it concerns management." 

 Mr. Rueppel and other analysts are focusing on rivals' efforts to cut into Xerox's domination of the corporate copy machine, especially the newer digital copiers. 

 These computerized copiers, often connected to a network of personal computers, are faster and more reliable than the old-fashioned stand-alone variety. Mid range models sell from $3,500 to $50,000 and can spew out anywhere from 20 to 60 copies a minute. Bigger and faster machines can cost hundreds of thousands of dollars. 

 In March, Canon introduced a new line of digital copiers, beefing up its ImageRunner series, which targets the midrange corporate market. Canon executives say they are shipping 10,000 units a month -- more than Xerox, in comparable lines -- becoming No. 1 in volume in the fourth quarter to date. "We are now able to compete with Xerox in ways we haven't been able to compete before," says Timothy Andree, a Canon USA vice president. 

 Independent statistics for 1999 to back up Canon's claim couldn't be found. In 1998 in the U.S., Xerox was the No. 1 seller of black-and-white digital copiers, with 37% of new copier sales, or 135,000 units, according to International Data Corp. But many analysts say Canon, which ranked No. 4, could take the top spot this year. 

 Richard Norton, president of DocuTrends, a Saratoga, Calif., consulting firm, is one. "They just went gangbusters," he says, despite the fact that Xerox had been in the market with digital copiers a couple of years before Canon. "Xerox shouldn't be ending up in second place." 

 Gil Hatch, president of Xerox's office-systems group, says talk of Canon's challenge has been overstated -- in part because the digital market is growing so fast; he expects Xerox sales in the segment to be up 40% this year from 1998. "The digital market is exploding," he said, adding that "our sales remain robust." 

 In the first half, he says, internal projections show Xerox's share had risen to the mid-40% level. In the second half, however, he says the company felt the impact of new competition. Mr. Hatch says second-half market share will slip slightly, especially in the higher-end printers that make 60 to 92 pages a minute. But he says that's because the company had such a dominant grip, with more than 60% of the market. 

 Mr. Hatch won't provide specific volume figures. But of Cannon's claim that it is shipping 10,000 midrange digital copiers a month, he said, "We sell more than that." 

 The digital market is key, because analysts expect digital copiers, which have higher profit margins, to take over the $10 billion black-and-white digital office copier market in the next few years. 

 In 1998, digital copiers accounted for about 19% of copiers sold in the U.S, according to IDC. But the research firm expects digital copiers to account for 88% of the market by 2003. Xerox, expected to report more than $19 billion in revenue this year, says digital copiers made up 53% of its third-quarter sales. 

 Jay Ingalls, research director with information-technology consultant Gartner Group Inc., says Xerox is facing threats on all levels of its business. 

 In January, Canon is introducing a challenge to Xerox's near-domination of high-volume digital copiers. These machines, the Bentleys of the copier market, are typically found in the central reproduction departments of major corporations. Canon's machine will be made by Heidelberger Druckmaschinen AG, a German printing-press maker, which earlier this year bought the copier design from Eastman Kodak Co. Last year, Xerox's high-end DocuTech printer line had $2.3 billion in revenue, more than 10% of Xerox's total revenue. 

 Mr. Ingalls points out another treat to Xerox: the convergence of copiers and printers, which are now often used for many of the same tasks. Printer makers such as Hewlett-Packard Co. and Lexmark International Inc. are poised to introduce products to challenge Xerox's less-expensive machines. 

 In its warning last week, Xerox said it expects fourth-quarter net income will be 40% lower than analysts' consensus expectations of 66 cents. At 4 p.m. yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange, Xerox shares closed at $22, down 12.5 cents and far below their 52-week high of $63.9375. 

 This week, analysts slashed their earnings projections. It was the second time in recent months that Xerox told analysts to scale back their estimates for the fourth quarter. Wall Street now expects Xerox to earn $1.95 a share this year, down 16% from 1998, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. Next year, analysts project the company will earn $1.98 a share, only a 1.5% increase over 1999. 

Document j000000020010828dvch0101p




 WRAP: Telstra 1H  Profit Warning  Knocks 5% Off Shares 

 By Graham Morgan 
576 words
16 December 1999
06:47
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 SYDNEY -(Dow Jones)- Telstra Corp. (TLS) warned investors that revenue and profit growth have slowed in the current fiscal first half, prompting a rush of sell orders that shaved 5% off the price of its ordinary shares. 

 The sell-down started in early trading and momentum continued throughout the session, forcing the common stock to close down 44 cents at A$8.44. 

 On a relative basis, the partly paid installment receipts were hit harder - they fell 40 cents, or about 6.9%, to A$5.48. The All Ordinaries closed up 6.9 points at 3125.9. 

 Chief Executive Ziggy Switkowski said in Telstra's staff paper that increased competition pressured the nation's largest telecommunications company, which controls around 95% of the Australian market. 

 "In recent months, we have seen the arrival of more competitors, unpredictable and deep reductions in prices, and robust pursuit of our corporate customers by a diverse range of competitors," Switkowski said. 

 "With the half year close imminent, we expect to report lower revenue growth than in previous years for the first half, and some impact upon our profit." 

 Telstra reported a 12% increase in net profit to A$1.81 billion in the first half to Dec. 31, 1998. Six months later, it posted a 16% annual increase in net profit to A$3.40 billion for the full year ended June 30, 1999. 

 Although profit for the first half won't grow at previous rates, it will still be ahead of the corresponding period last year, with growth in the high single digit levels, Switkowski noted. 

 Brokers said the profit downgrading announcement surprised the market, which immediately moved to mark down the stock. Big sellers were Credit Suisse First Boston (Z.CSG), Salomon Smith Barney (X.SSB) and Macquarie Equities, part of Australia's Macquarie Bank (A.MCQ). 

 "It's as if the shine has come off one of the market's favorite companies," one broker remarked. "We have all seen increased competition in telecommunications and maybe its time for Telstra to change tack to protect its market share." 

 The broker, who asked not to be named, said the word in financial circles was that Telstra had called around local analysts to downgrade their earnings forecasts for the company. 

 Before the announcement, most analysts were forecasting Telstra would post a first half net profit around the A$2 billion mark. 

 Telstra is facing mounting competition at home, with its closest rivals racking up strong sales in the mobile telephone sector, while a plethora of boutique telephony and data companies are undercutting Telstra by offering cut-price overseas calls and cheap - if not free - Internet access. 

 Australia's second and third-ranking telcos, Cable & Wireless Optus (A.CWO) and AAPT Ltd. (A.AAP) respectively, are also making life uneasy for Telstra. Both are in the process of rolling out Code Division Multiple Access, or CDMA, digital networks capable of providing high-speed voice and data services. 

 To add to that, both Optus and AAPT have the financial clout to pay for the networks, analysts say. Telecom Corp. of New Zealand (NZT), New Zealand's largest telecommunications company, recently took control of AAPT Ltd. It now holds around 80% of AAPT. 

 Optus is 53%-owned by Cable & Wireless PLC (CWP) of the U.K. 

 -By Graham Morgan; 61-2-8235-2962 

 graham.morgan@dowjones.com 

Document dji0000020010826dvcg08gqm




 FOCUS - French tech stocks hurt by Cisco's slide. 

 By Isabelle Clary 
643 words
15 December 1999
22:25
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 PARIS, Dec 15 (Reuters) - French technology stocks retreated sharply on Wednesday as a fresh message of caution on sales from U.S. networking giant Cisco Systems  poured cold water on investors' red-hot interest in French growth stocks. 

 But analysts remained divided about whether French stocks routed in the "new economy" were rife for a correction or just needed a pause before heading for higher ground. 

 TEMPORARY SETBACK OR MOMENTUM SHIFT? 

 Paris traders promptly took French technology-related stocks lower as Cisco warned "growth in net sales may be significantly lower than our historical quarterly growth rate" - a message seen in Paris as ominous for the entire sector. 

 Cisco's stock lost five percent early in U.S. trading but recovered some ground later in the day after the company said that its message was a reiteration of similar statements in the past and that it was happy with analysts' profit forecasts for the second quarter and year 2000. 

 That came a bit late for the French stocks. 

 High-tech services provider Cap Gemini (CAPP.PA, telephone equipment maker Alcatel and chip-maker STMicroelectronics lost between 9.0 and 6.0 percent while the CAC-40, rescued by once-forgotten cyclical values, gave up only 0.62 percent. 

 "The CAC-40 behaves more like the Nasdaq. Cisco was important because its one of the three or four true symbols of the new economy," said Frederic Leroux, manager at the investment firm Prigest. 

 Prigest recalled that a profit warning by International Business Machines in October and sobering comments about the technology sector by Microsoft President Steve Ballmer in September had only a brief impact on markets. 

 Ballmer had described the "overvaluation of technology stocks" as "absurd." 

 "But one day, we'll get a profit warning and several disappointing results at the same time, and we'll have downside momentum or even a bear market," predicted Leroux who recalled that then-technology leader RCA suffered as much as other stocks during the 1929 U.S. stock market crash. 

 HIGH VOLATILITY THE PRICE TO PAY FOR HIGH-FLYERS 

 Small-capitalisation French technology stocks suffered the most on Wednesday, with the "new economy" Nouveau Marche index ending down 6.83 percent after setting a record at 2,605.16 points on Tuesday, for a 106-percent gain on the year. 

 "I think it is a very small price to pay," said Merrill Lynch analyst Peter Bradshaw of the sharp losses suffered by Internet and technology stocks or recent comers to the Nouveau Marche. 

 "By the end of the day, nobody made money sitting by the sidelines, did they?" asked Bradshaw who described today's price action as "a tiny blimp in the massive upturn we had this year." 

 Bradshaw said volatility is the name of the game for the stocks at the edge of the new economic frontier. 

 "On the European Internet, we believe very strongly the valuation risks in the sector are worth taking," Bradshaw said although adding "some of the stocks are preposterously priced." 

 Gregory Bailly, analyst at the firm IFF, agreed the Paris Bourse is likely to have ups and downs but this did not alter his long-term confidence in top-tier French companies. 

 "We can expect a decline in telecoms equipment providers' profit margins in 2000, due to the consolidation in the sector," Bailly said. "But I retain very positive long term on Alcatel or France Telecom." 

 Bailly also thought a correction would help the market on the long term. 

 "It's a speculative bubble that is bursting in the technology sector. When you look at the magnitude of the recent gains, you have to expect a correction," Bailly added. ((Paris Newsroom +33 1 42215452, fax +33 1 42361072, paris.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dvcf083r2




 FOCUS - French tech stocks hurt by Cisco's slide. 

 By Isabelle Clary 
643 words
15 December 1999
22:25
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 PARIS, Dec 15 (Reuters) - French technology stocks retreated sharply on Wednesday as a fresh message of caution on sales from U.S. networking giant Cisco Systems poured cold water on investors' red-hot interest in French growth stocks. 

 But analysts remained divided about whether French stocks routed in the "new economy" were rife for a correction or just needed a pause before heading for higher ground. 

 TEMPORARY SETBACK OR MOMENTUM SHIFT? 

 Paris traders promptly took French technology-related stocks lower as Cisco warned "growth in net sales may be significantly lower than our historical quarterly growth rate" - a message seen in Paris as ominous for the entire sector. 

 Cisco's stock lost five percent early in U.S. trading but recovered some ground later in the day after the company said that its message was a reiteration of similar statements in the past and that it was happy with analysts' profit forecasts for the second quarter and year 2000. 

 That came a bit late for the French stocks. 

 High-tech services provider Cap Gemini CAPP.PA, telephone equipment maker Alcatel and chip-maker STMicroelectronics lost between 9.0 and 6.0 percent while the CAC-40, rescued by once-forgotten cyclical values, gave up only 0.62 percent. 

 "The CAC-40 behaves more like the Nasdaq. Cisco was important because its one of the three or four true symbols of the new economy," said Frederic Leroux, manager at the investment firm Prigest. 

 Prigest recalled that a profit warning by International Business Machines in October and sobering comments about the technology sector by Microsoft President Steve Ballmer in September had only a brief impact on markets. 

 Ballmer had described the "overvaluation of technology stocks" as "absurd." 

 "But one day, we'll get a profit warning and several disappointing results at the same time, and we'll have downside momentum or even a bear market," predicted Leroux who recalled that then-technology leader RCA suffered as much as other stocks during the 1929 U.S. stock market crash. 

 HIGH VOLATILITY THE PRICE TO PAY FOR HIGH-FLYERS 

 Small-capitalisation French technology stocks suffered the most on Wednesday, with the "new economy" Nouveau Marche index ending down 6.83 percent after setting a record at 2,605.16 points on Tuesday, for a 106-percent gain on the year. 

 "I think it is a very small price to pay," said Merrill Lynch analyst Peter Bradshaw of the sharp losses suffered by Internet and technology stocks or recent comers to the Nouveau Marche. 

 "By the end of the day, nobody made money sitting by the sidelines, did they?" asked Bradshaw who described today's price action as "a tiny blimp in the massive upturn we had this year." 

 Bradshaw said volatility is the name of the game for the stocks at the edge of the new economic frontier. 

 "On the European Internet, we believe very strongly the valuation risks in the sector are worth taking," Bradshaw said although adding "some of the stocks are preposterously priced." 

 Gregory Bailly, analyst at the firm IFF, agreed the Paris Bourse is likely to have ups and downs but this did not alter his long-term confidence in top-tier French companies. 

 "We can expect a decline in telecoms equipment providers' profit margins in 2000, due to the consolidation in the sector," Bailly said. "But I retain very positive long term on Alcatel or France Telecom." 

 Bailly also thought a correction would help the market on the long term. 

 "It's a speculative bubble that is bursting in the technology sector. When you look at the magnitude of the recent gains, you have to expect a correction," Bailly added. ((Paris Newsroom +33 1 42215452, fax +33 1 42361072, paris.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dvcf07za7




 Astec Industries Issues  Profit Warning  After Analysts' Estimates Lowered 

 By Christine Nuzum, Staff Reporter 
358 words
15 December 1999
23:57
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Shares of Astec Industries Inc. plunged to a 52-week low Wednesday after several firms lowered their fourth-quarter earnings estimates. 

 Weak international sales and the liquidation of inventory at competitor Cedarapids, recently acquired by Terex Corp. (TEX), will depress fourth-quarter earnings, analysts agreed. 

 Astec confirmed that after the bell, saying it expects fourth-quarter net income of 18 cents a share to 22 cents a share, well below year-ago earnings of 29 cents a share, as a result of a continuing slowdown of international sales. 

 The mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial was for net income of 31 cents a share. 

 Shares of Astec (ASTE) fell as low as $15.125, past the previous low of $17.75 set a year ago. The shares closed down 30%, or $6.50, at $15.25 on volume of 1.6 million shares, compared with a daily average of 145,000 shares. 

 Chattanooga, Tenn-based Astec designs and makes equipment for infrastructure building and environment cleaning. 

 ING Barings released a note Wednesday morning predicting fourth-quarter earnings of 23 cents to 30 cents a share, down from its previous view of 32 cents a share. 

 Meanwhile, Scott & Stringfellow cut estimates to 28 cents a share from 32 cents a share and CJS Securities lowered its view by a nickel to 25 cents a share. 

 All three firms maintained their ratings on the stock - ING Barings and Scott & Stringfellow at "strong buy" and CJS Securities at "attractive." 

 The firms said Astec stands to benefit from the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century, or TEA-21, which will increase spending on road and highway construction. 

 Astec said fourth-quarter domestic sales appear to be consistent with expectations but will not offset international slowness. 

 The company expects revenue and profits in 2000 to meet or exceed the current consensus of analysts' expectations. The mean estimate is for 2000 net income of $2.07 a share. 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dvcf00qle


Business
THE MARKETS

This report includes information from Bloomberg News and The Associated Press.   
177 words
14 December 1999
SeattlePI.com
SEPI
FINAL
D1
English
Copyright 1999. Hearst Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

A profit warning from Xerox rattled the market but failed to discourage technology investors, who pulled the Nasdaq composite index further into record high territory. Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 5-3 ratio on the New York Stock Exchange. Among stocks in the news:

Xerox Corp., up 1 1/4 at 21 1/8. Shares rebounded after a steep decline in Friday's late session. Xerox said its fourth-quarter earnings will fall 40 percent short of estimates as the company struggles with delayed orders as a result of Year 2000 computer concerns.

AutoNation Inc., down 1 7/16 at 8 1/2. The auto retailer said it will eliminate 1,800 jobs and immediately close 23 of its megastores to cut costs.

Whittman-Hart Inc., down 24 3/4 at 54 1/2. USWeb/CKS, down 7 1/16 at 43 13/16. Computer consulting company Whittman-Hart Inc. will acquire USWeb/CKS, which also provides Internet consulting and professional services.

Document SEPI000020120616dvce01nci


BUSINESS
NASDAQ HITS RECORD

Associated Press   
666 words
14 December 1999
Telegraph Herald
DUBQTELH
WISCONSIN
B5
English
Copyright 1999, Woodward Communications Inc. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

NEW YORK (AP) - Stock prices ended mixed Monday as a profit warning from Xerox rattled the market but failed to discourage technology investors, who pulled the Nasdaq composite index further into record high territory.

In a fitful session, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 32.11 to close at 11,192.59.

Broader stock indicators were mixed. The Standard & Poor's 500 fell 1.82 to 1,415.22, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 37.91 to 3,658.15, its 23rd record close since Oct. 29.

The Nasdaq, dominated by technology stocks, is now up 66.8 percent for 1999. The Dow is up 21.9 percent.

"The technology stocks continue to pull in money, and they're pulling it away from the rest of the market," said Eugene G. Mintz, financial markets analyst at Brown Brothers Harriman in New York. "There doesn't seem to be any other sector that's grabbing attention."

Despite the modest movements of market averages, trading was fairly volatile following a profit warning from Xerox late Friday. Citing a shortfall in sales due to Year 2000 computer concerns, Xerox said it expects fourth-quarter earnings to come in 40 percent below analysts' expectations.

The warning from Xerox rattled investors who are counting on strong corporate profit growth in the fourth quarter. With market averages at or near record levels, investors are demanding strong earnings growth to justify the high prices of many stocks.

Xerox itself rose 11/4 to 211/8, as of 5 p.m. The company's shares fell to a 52-week low in Friday's late trading session, dipping to 197/8, and prompting some bargain-hunting Monday, traders said.

Also, many investors determined that Xerox's woes may not extend to other technology companies, and returned to the market in search of some high-tech favorites. IBM rose 1 1/16 to 110 1/16, Microsoft gained 23/4 to 965/8, and Qualcomm soared 26 1/16 to 417 9/16.

Even Wal-Mart benefited from the technology frenzy, rising 45/8, to 677/8, on speculation that it will soon announce an alliance with America Online.

Technology has dramatically outperformed the rest of the market this year, leaving some analysts concerned that the sector's strength is masking weakness in the broad market.

"Without a pickup in breadth and an improvement in the underlying structure of the market, markets would be increasingly vulnerable to a more serious decline," said A.C. Moore, chief investment strategist at Dunvegan Associates Inc. in Santa Barbara, Calif.

Financial stocks, which led the market on Friday, were mostly lower Monday. American Express lost 1 7/16 to 166 5/16 and Citigroup fell 13/16 to 55 5/16.

Analysts said those shares were slipping in advance of Tuesday's report on the consumer price index. The report, the government's most closely watched inflation gauge, is expected to be benign. But Wall Street remains wary of inflation, which could prompt the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates some time in the next few months.

The Fed raised rates three times in 1999, and economists are divided on whether the increases have successfully cooled the economy to a sustainable rate.

Financial stocks are typically the first to respond to changes in the interest-rate backdrop. Higher rates reduce the value of their holdings, and may hurt profits by cutting into lending volume.

Declining issues outnumbered advancers by a 5-to-3 margin on the New York Stock Exchange. NYSE volume totaled 971.00 million shares, compared with 981.37 million in the previous session.

The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 3.67 to 470.38.

Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average fell 0.4 percent. European indexes were mixed, with Germany's DAX index up 0.5 percent, Britain's FT-SE 100 down 0.4 percent, and France's CAC-40 closing up 1.0 percent.

Document DUBQTELH20140822dvce0010l




 U.S. stocks stay mixed in early afternoon. 

 By Eric Wahlgren 
592 words
13 December 1999
18:38
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 13 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks stayed mixed in early afternoon as the Nasdaq market chugged toward a new record while the broader market was pressured by profit taking and an earnings warning from copier maker Xerox Corp.. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average .DJI) was down 4 points, or 0.04 percent, at 11,220. The index is up 10 percent since mid-October. 

 In the broader market, declining issues beat out advances by about 17 to 12 on active volume of more than 590 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index .IXIC) was up 26 points, or 0.73 percent, at 3,646, rebounding from a mid-morning dip. The index was on track to close at its seventh record in eight sessions. 

 The Standard & Poor's 500 index .SPX) was flat at 1,417. 

 "At this point, we have advanced to a level where it is hard to find sustainability," said Dick Stein, vice president and chief technical analyst at Boca Raton-based Noble International Investments. "By and large, you're going to get trading advances and pull-backs in individual stocks." 

 One stock in pull-back mode was Xerox, which helped undercut the broader market after saying its fourth-quarter earnings could fall 40 percent short of Wall Street's forecast. 

 Xerox, which was down 3 at 21-11/16, was the volume leader on the NYSE. J.P. Morgan cut its rating on the shares and PaineWebber trimmed its outlook for the company's earnings. 

 The bad news dragged down other copier and office equipment shares. Among them, Ikon Office Solutions Inc. dipped 5/16 to 6-11/16, Pitney Bowes Inc. was off 15/16 at 43 and Lexmark International Group Inc. fell 2-11/16 to 73-316. 

 Financial markets were also bracing for the government's release of the U.S. Consumer Price Index, a gauge of inflation at the consumer level, set for Tuesday. 

 The inflation data could provide clues about whether the Federal Reserve's policy-setting panel will raise interest rates at its next meeting on Dec. 21. 

 "The market is taking a deep breath right now," said George Rodriguez, senior vice president for equities at Guzman & Co. in Jersey City, N.J. "When all is said and done, we're going to see the market get stronger in the next day or two." 

 The U.S. Treasury 30-year bond was off 6/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, rose to 6.18 percent from 6.17 percent on Friday. 

 Among interest-rate sensitive financial stocks in the Dow, American Express Co. was down 2-4/16 at 166-3/16 and Citigroup Inc. was off 3/4 at 55-3/8. 

 One bright spot was the airline sector with the Standard & Poor's airline index .SPAIR) up 3.12 percent. 

 Among the big movers on the Nasdaq, ExciteAtHome Corp., which provides high-speed Internet access over cable lines, was up 4-3/4 at 51-1/8. 

 Intel Corp. shares rose 7/8 at 73-1/8 after the Nasdaq said it would co-list the chip maker's shares with the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. Earlier in the session, a source a Prudential Securities said the firm had cut the firm's rating to accumulate from strong buy. 

 ((Wall Street Desk, + 212.859.1730)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dvcd08eno




 Wall Street mixed as Nasdaq treads record. 

 By Ian Simpson 
530 words
13 December 1999
18:24
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 13 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks were mixed at midday on Monday as the surging Nasdaq composite index .IXIC) tested record ground once again. 

 Markets were hampered in part by profit-taking and an earnings warning from copier maker Xerox Corp.. But the underlying mood remained positive as the booming U.S. economy headed into its 10th consecutive year of growth. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average .DJI) was down 16 points, or 0.14 percent, at 11,209. The marquee index is up about 10 percent since mid-October. 

 Declining issues led advances 1,685 to 1,214 on heavy volume of more than 425 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 The Nasdaq composite index .IXIC) was up 26 points, or 0.73 percent, at 3,647, rebounding from a mid-morning dip. The gauge closed Friday at its sixth record in seven sessions and is up about 35 percent since mid-October. 

 The Standard & Poor's 500 index .SPX) was flat at 1,417. 

 "The market is taking a deep breath right now," said George Rodriguez, senior vice president for equities at Guzman & Co. in Jersey City, N.J. 

 "When all is said and done, we're going to see the market get stronger in the next day or two." 

 Sherry Cooper, chief economist at Nesbitt Burns, a unit of the Bank of Montreal, said markets were showing few blemishes despite questions about whether a large number of computer companies with no earnings deserved their "nose-bleed valuations." 

 "The overall bull market remains deeply rooted in solid underlying economic fundamentals," she wrote in a report. 

 Financial markets are looking ahead to the government's release of the U.S. Consumer Price Index set for Tuesday. The inflation data could provide a clue about whether the Federal Reserve's policy-setting panel will raise interest rates at its next meeting on Dec. 21. 

 The U.S. Treasury 30-year bond was off 4/32, with the yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, up at 6.18 percent from 6.17 percent on Friday. 

 Xerox helped undercut stocks. The company said its fourth-quarter earnings could fall 40 percent short of Wall Street's forecast. 

 Xerox, which was down 2-5/8 at 22-1/16, was the volume leader on the NYSE. J.P. Morgan cut its rating on the shares and PaineWebber trimmed its outlook for the company's earnings. 

 The bad news dragged down other copier and office equipment shares. Among them, Ikon Office Solutions Inc. dipped 3/8 to 6-5/8, Pitney Bowes Inc. was off 1-15/16 to 42 and Lexmark International Group Inc. fell 2-3/8 to 73-1/2. 

 The Dow Jones transportation index .DJT) was up 1.15 percent. The Philadelphia Stock Exchange bank gauge .BKX) was down 1.39 percent. 

 Among Dow financial stocks, American Express Co. was down 2-1/2 at 165-15/16 and Citigroup Inc. was off 7/8 at 55-1/4. ((-Ian Simpson, Wall Street desk, (212) 859-1879)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dvcd08ela




 U.S. stocks fall on Xerox  warning ,  profit -taking. 

 By Ian Simpson 
393 words
13 December 1999
15:28
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 13 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks fell in mid-morning trading Monday, weighed down by profit-taking and an earnings warning from copier equipment giant Xerox Corp. . 

 Also, a ratings downgrade by Prudential Securities of semiconductor maker Intel Corp.  hurt the market. 


The Dow Jones industrial average	  was down 19 points, or 0.17 percent, at 11,205. Declining issues headed advances 1,395 to 1,093 on active volume of more than 175 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange.
The Nasdaq composite index	   was off 20 points, or 0.55 percent, at 3,600 after it closed at a record Friday.
The Standard & Poor's 500 index	  was off 3 points, or 0.22 percent, at 1,414.



The U.S. Treasury 30-year bond was off 7/32, with the yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, up at 6.18 percent from 6.17 percent on Friday.



"We're seeing profit-taking here pretty much across the board," said James Volk, co-director of institutional trading at D.A. Davidson & Co. in Portland, Ore.



The Dow index has risen 10 percent and the Nasdaq soared 34 percent since mid-October.



Xerox helped undercut stocks. The company said its fourth-quarter earnings could fall 40 percent short of Wall Street's forecast.



Xerox, which was down 3-3/16, or 13 percent, was the volume leader on the NYSE. J.P. Morgan cut its rating on the shares and PaineWebber trimmed its outlook for the company's earnings.



Intel, a new Dow component, also helped pull the index lower after a Prudential Securities source said the brokerage house had cut its rating on the shares to accumulate from strong buy. Intel was off 1-1/8 at 71-1/8.



Intel "is a major factor in the averages," said Lance Zipper, head of equity trading at Brean Murray & Co.



Financial markets also are looking ahead to the government's release of the U.S. Consumer Price Index set for Tuesday. The inflation data could provide a clue about whether the Federal Reserve's policy-setting panel will raise interest rates at its next meeting on Dec. 21. ((-Ian Simpson, Wall Street desk, (212) 859-1879)).



(C) Reuters Limited 1999.


Document lba0000020010908dvcd08e2i




 Xerox Issues Another  Profit Warning , Cites Weak Sales Of Copiers 

1,408 words
10 December 1999
21:13
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Xerox Corp. late Friday warned fourth-quarter earnings will fall far short of analysts' estimates, citing continued weak demand for copiers, tough competition from rivals and the lingering effects of a sales-force reorganization and consolidation of billing centers earlier this year. 

 The company also said high-end printing and publishing-equipment sales are "significantly constrained" because of reduced corporate spending related to work on fixing the year 2000 computer glitch. Such "lockdowns" appear to be intensifying, Xerox said. 

 Stamford, Conn.-based Xerox (XRX) estimated fourth-quarter earnings could be as much as 40% shy of the mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. The mean estimate was for earnings of 66 cents a share. 

 The stock came crashing down in after-hours trading Friday, to $20, according to Reuters Instinet. In primary New York Stock Exchange trading, the stock rose $1.125, or 4.8%, to $24.69. 

 Xerox said the estimate is preliminary because December is the most important month for the firm. However, Xerox said "there is sufficient information to confirm the factors that affected the third quarter have intensified." 

 Xerox, caught flat-footed by a worse-than-expected sales slowdown, stunned investors in October by warning of disappointing earnings and revenue for the third quarter. Friday's warning means Xerox will report disappointing results for four consecutive quarters, an unusual development given the company's former reputation for steady and predictable financial performance. 

 The latest warning raises more questions about the extent of the company's sales woes, amid weakening demand and tough competition from rivals including Canon Inc. 

 Earlier this year, Xerox blamed some of the woes on disruption to its sales force following a reorganization that put more emphasis on selling services together with machines. The shift required Xerox's 14,000 sales employees to spend more time in training and developing than in selling products. Xerox Friday said the effects of the reorganization has "intensified, resulting in higher than anticipated expenses, including bad debts." Sales productivity continues to be hurt. 

 Analysts have said the warnings highlight the extent to which sales of computer printers have eaten into copier sales. Businesses are increasingly opting to use printers for ordinary copying tasks because they often cost less - to own and operate - and can be conveniently located near individual computers. 

 As it did in the second and third quarters, Xerox Friday said results were hurt by economic problems in Brazil. Xerox said profits from the Brazilian operation will be "substantially below" expectations because of the continuing economic weakness following the currency devaluation instituted earlier this year. The company said the strengthening of the dollar against European currencies this quarter has "unfavorably impacted" translation of European revenues and profits. 

 The company said it expects things to improve with the new year. "In 2000, the Y2K issue disappears, the U.S. customer administration issues will progressively improve, we expect some recovery in Brazil and our sales force reorganization will have been implemented," Xerox said. 

 Xerox added that it is in the midst of a "comprehensive review" of its costs and businesses to identify opportunities for savings. The company expects earnings "will show meaningful growth in the second half of next year." By 2001, Xerox expects to double, to around 50%, the proportion of its revenue from three fast-growing businesses - "high-end publishing solutions, outsourcing, and channels, which addresses the small and networked office." 

 In his first eight months as chief executive officer of Xerox, G. Richard Thoman has had a run few executives would want to copy. That distraction of the sales and billing overhaul has allowed Canon to gain market share and contributed to Xerox's woes. 

 Since the start of the year, Xerox shares have plunged more than 60%. Since he was appointed CEO, Thoman says he has lost two-thirds of his own net worth. And after the string quarters of disappointing financial results, he finds himself under pressure from investors and answering tough questions from directors. "The board obviously shares the concerns any shareholder would have," Xerox Chairman Paul Allaire said in October. In response, Thoman has instituted a cost-cutting program and frozen most hiring. 

 Thoman came to Xerox in 1997 from International Business Machines Corp., where he had served as chief financial officer under his friend and mentor Louis V. Gerstner. When he arrived at Xerox, investors expected him to work a little Gerstner financial magic on the copier giant. 

 But Thoman finds himself in a strategic snarl. The company has one of the most venerable names in American business but finds itself facing numerous threats from emerging technology. Besides the rise of computer printers, the Internet and e-mail are allowing computer users to send many copies of documents without ever touching paper. And foreign rivals like Canon are introducing high-tech copiers that some customers say produce better copies. 

 Thoman is trying to turn Xerox away from traditional copiers to "solutions," an assortment of consulting, maintenance and other services aimed at broadening Xerox's business. But the transition has been tough. The billing problems began earlier this year after Xerox decided to consolidate its 36 U.S. administration centers to three. The company now concedes that too many administrators were pulled out of the operation, leaving the centers understaffed. 

 Thoman found out about the billing disruption in March and was upset. Thoman, who led the push to reorganize Xerox's sales force, in October ssaid the impact of that move was more disruptive than he anticipated. 

 Xerox's sales force of 14,000 traditionally has been split up into 38 geographic regions, with different reps responsible for handling different parts of the country. So while one sales force hawked copiers in one region, other reps sold services. Earlier this year, Xerox began to divide its sales force into six industry segments, including manufacturing and graphic arts, and allowed sales reps to sell copiers as well as services. 

 The result: some Xerox sales reps had to learn entirely new industries. Xerox has said training took longer than expected - in some cases as much as two weeks for an individual. That downtime and distraction took sales reps away from selling equipment, which hurt revenue. 

 Other problems loom. Xerox lowered prices in the third quarter on some high-end commercial printers, anticipating that concerns about the year 2000 computer bug would prompt customers to spend less or postpone purchases in the fourth quarter. But Xerox didn't get a subsequent surge in third-quarter sales volume. 

 Xerox is completing a $1.1 billion restructuring that began in 1998, a program that has already cut about 9,100 jobs. If things don't improve in the current quarter, Thoman has said, further restructuring may be a possibility. 

 With the most-important three selling weeks of the year still ahead, the outlook "couldn't be more disappointing," Thoman said Friday. He expects price competition to remain in place, although the company plans to announce selected price increases on Monday. He also said the company is shifting its product mix to faster-growing lines. 

 Chief Financial Officer Barry D. Romeril said Friday improvements mainly in inventory management and lowering receivables will propel cash flow in 2000 to levels that could exceed the more than $1 billion in cash flow registered in 1997, Xerox's best year. 

 However, product-mix and inventory issues will lead to a charge to be announced in January, he said. The size of the charge will depend on how sales go in the final three weeks of the quarter. 

 With the Jan. 25 release of its fourth-quarter results, Xerox will also announce progress on substantial cost-savings in areas it has identified, Chief Executive Thoman said. 

 One of Xerox's biggest problems is its product mix, with more than 75% of revenue derived from businesses that are growing at a 10% pace or less, Thoman said. "That's simply not enough to drive the kind of revenue growth that we need over time," he said. 

 Xerox is focusing on three fast-growing segments: high-end publishing solutions, outsourcing and sales to distribution channels that will place its products in small and networked offices, Thoman said. These three areas should make up more than 50% of revenue in 2001, he said. 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dvca00mjj




 IBM Says 4th Quarter Earnings Outlook Unchanged -Analyst 

 By Scott Eden 
622 words
9 December 1999
18:02
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) said its outlook for fourth-quarter earnings hasn't changed since it scaled-back analysts' expectations in October. 

 IBM made the statement at a meeting with analysts and institutional investors here Thursday, said Goldman Sachs & Co. analyst Laura Conigliaro, who attended the event. 

 Analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial estimate IBM will earn $1.06 a share in the period, which ends Dec. 31. 

 Reporters were barred from the conference, but according to Goldman analyst Conigliaro, IBM executives said the year 2000 freeze on computer spending was "real," especially with regard to the company's largest accounts. 

 Since the October profit warning, however, customers have told IBM that as they move into the second quarter of next year they will begin spending on a "more normal basis." Executives, according to Conigliaro, said 2000 has the potential to be a "very good year for IBM." 

 In early afternoon trading Thursday, Big Blue's NYSE-listed stock changed hands at 117, down 1 11/32, or 1.1%, on volume of 9.3 million shares. Average daily volume is 10.8 million. 

 At the same time IBM released its tepid third-quarter results, it rocked Wall Street by unexpectedly scaling back fourth-quarter estimates. The company blamed the shortfall on slower sales of large computers ahead of the turn of the century and feared computer-clock glitches. 

 An IBM representative couldn't immediately be reached for comment. 

 Later, IBM spokesman Rob Wilson told Dow Jones that John Joyce, the company's new chief financial officer, made the remarks as part of the meeting's opening address. The outlook basically reiterated what former IBM CFO Doug Maine told Wall Street on Oct. 20, when estimates were initially reduced, Wilson said. 

 Although on-target, IBM's restated outlook nonetheless heartened audience members Thursday. "You can't take anything for granted after a company has a surprise in a quarter," Goldman analyst Conigliaro said. 

 She said IBM hinted in "breakout" sessions during the four-hour meeting that sales of AS/400 computer servers were stabilizing after a period of decline, and that mainframe sales, although still "soft," likely would improve next year as customers start making post-Y2K purchases. 

 The meeting, which ran from 8:30 a.m. till around 12:30 p.m. EST, was meant to focus on IBM's booming Internet, or "e-business," segments. Analysts were looking for IBM to delve into how e-business could offset slower-growing areas, such as the company's bread-and-butter machinery. 

 "(The meeting) was a reinforcement more than entirely new information," Conigliaro said. IBM projected overall technology-industry growth of 11% a year and e-business growth of 19%, numbers IBM had previously proffered as guideposts to Wall Street. 

 At the company's last Wall Street gathering, in May, Chairman Louis V. Gerstner lauded his company's Internet presence, telling analysts that IBM expects to sell $10 billion to $15 billion in products and services over the Web in 1999. The company estimates that 25% of its revenue now comes from Internet-related business. 

 IBM typically conducts two analyst conferences a year: one led by Gerstner in the spring, and another led by lower-level executives in December. That December meeting typically spotlights one business theme. 

 Among its highly profitable Internet ventures, IBM provides all manner of professional consulting and technical services to help companies set up their own online offerings; vends software and other e-commerce technology; and manages and pipes Internet content to corporate customers through a technology known as Web hosting. 

 -By Scott Eden, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5253 

Document dj00000020010827dvc907mku




 IBM Says 4th Quarter Looking In Line With October Warning 

 By Scott Eden, Staff Reporter 
670 words
9 December 1999
19:13
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- International Business Machines Corp. said Thursday its outlook for fourth-quarter earnings hasn't changed since it scaled-back analysts' expectations in October. 

 IBM (IBM) made the statement at a meeting with analysts and institutional investors here Thursday, said Goldman Sachs & Co. analyst Laura Conigliaro, who attended the event. 

 The mean estimate of 24 analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial is for IBM to earn $1.06 a share in the period, which ends Dec. 31. 

 Reporters were barred from the conference, but according to Goldman analyst Conigliaro, IBM executives said the year 2000 freeze on computer spending was "real," especially with regard to the company's largest accounts. 

 Since the October profit warning, however, customers have told IBM that as they move into the second quarter of next year they will begin spending on a "more normal basis." Executives, according to Conigliaro, said 2000 has the potential to be a "very good year for IBM." 

 When IBM released its tepid third-quarter results in October, it rocked Wall Street by unexpectedly scaling back fourth-quarter estimates. The company blamed the shortfall on slower sales of large computers ahead of the turn of the century and feared computer-clock glitches. 

 IBM spokesman Rob Wilson told Dow Jones that John Joyce, the company's new chief financial officer, said that Big Blue Thursday basically reiterated what former IBM CFO Doug Maine told Wall Street Oct. 20, when estimates were initially reduced. 

 Although on-target, IBM's restated outlook nonetheless heartened audience members Thursday. "You can't take anything for granted after a company has a surprise in a quarter," Goldman analyst Conigliaro said. 

 She said IBM hinted in "breakout" sessions during the four-hour meeting that sales of AS/400 computer servers were stabilizing after a period of decline, and that mainframe sales, although still "soft," likely would improve next year as customers start making post-Y2K purchases. 

 The meeting, which ran from 8:30 a.m. till around 12:30 p.m. EST, was meant to focus on IBM's booming Internet, or "e-business," segments. Analysts were looking for IBM to delve into how e-business could offset slower-growing areas, such as the company's bread-and-butter machinery. 

 "(The meeting) was a reinforcement more than entirely new information," Conigliaro said. IBM projected overall technology-industry growth of 11% a year and e-business growth of 19%, numbers IBM had previously proffered as guideposts to Wall Street. 

 At the company's last Wall Street gathering in May, Chairman Louis V. Gerstner lauded his company's Internet presence, telling analysts that IBM expects to sell $10 billion to $15 billion in products and services over the Web in 1999. The company estimates that 25% of its revenue now comes from Internet-related business. 

 IBM typically conducts two analyst conferences a year: one led by Gerstner in the spring, and another led by lower-level executives in December. That December meeting typically spotlights one business theme. 

 Among its highly profitable Internet ventures, IBM provides all manner of professional consulting and technical services to help companies set up their own online offerings; vends software and other electronic-commerce technology; and manages and pipes Internet content to corporate customers through a technology known as Web hosting. 

 Separately, IBM said Thursday that it plans to cut its server group payroll by 3% to 6%, which could mean loss of at least 130 jobs in Poughkeepsie in February. The news follows last month's announcement that the company was planning to trim the group's payroll by 3% to 6%. 

 The server group has employees at IBM's Poughkeepsie and Somers, N.Y., Rochester, Minn., and Austin, Texas, plants. Industry experts estimate the nationwide job reduction at about 750 positions. IBM had 141,000 U.S. employees at the end of 1998. 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dvc900ocg




 U.K.'s Racal To Decide On Spinning Off Defense Business Next Year 

 By Robb M. Stewart, Staff Reporter 
752 words
8 December 1999
13:00
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 LONDON -(Dow Jones)- Racal Electronics PLC, which is widely known for spinning off what become successful businesses, said Wednesday it expects to decide on its defense arm early next year and it also may take action on its vehicle tracking business. 

 That, said analysts, moves the rumor mill up a notch and focuses attention on valuations. 

 Chairman Sir Ernest Harrison "has pulled so many rabbits out of his hat, it's hard to bet against him," said Michael Blogg, an analyst at Charterhouse Securities. But he and others note there is a concern Racal won't be able to draw value from its defense-electronics division and that there may be little elsewhere to inspire its share price. 

 A shadow has hung over Racal for more than a year as investors waited for the company to float its telecommunications division and to decide what role its defense businesses would play in European industry consolidation. Racal opted this autumn to sell Racal Telecom to Global Crossing Ltd. (GBLX) for one billion pounds ($1.63 billion), a deal it closed last month. 

 Many expect the defense arm to be sold, too. Possible suitors are said to be Thomson-CSF SA of France, which is in several military projects with Racal, Raytheon Co. (RTNA) of the U.S. and Dasa, the aerospace unit of DamilerChrysler AG (DCX). 

 "Racal as it stands is purely a value play," said one analyst, who added that he would be surprised if Racal got the 600 million pounds for the defense business most analysts figure it is worth. On top of that, the analyst said, there are concerns about what becomes of the rump business. 

 "If they don't get the price they want, then it becomes hard to justify the current share price," Blogg said. 

 And even if Racal gets a good price for the defense arm from a company eager to gain a foothold with the military in the United Kingdom, it is hard to get beyond the current share price based on the valuations of the businesses Racal would keep, said ABN Amro analyst Sandy Morris. 

 There is also Racal's Global Telematics joint venture with European Telecom PLC to consider. The group said it will look at ways of drawing value from the vehicle tracking business, and expects to take action in the second half of 2000. 

 Analysts consider Global Telematics a prime candidate for flotation, although there is always the possibility Racal will favor selling its 50% stake. 

 Also Wednesday, the company reported fiscal first-half pretax profit of 23.4 million pounds, in line with market expectations, although it was down 40% from a year ago. Sales for the period ended Oct. 15 were down 9.8% to 492 million pounds. 

 As one analyst pointed out, the results were in line following what amounted to a profit warning at the time of Racal's annual meeting and another when it unveiled the sale of its telecommunications arm in October. "The continuing businesses were in line," he said, "but are going backwards from where we had thought they would be" at the end of the last fiscal year. 

 If Racal separates from defense electronics and Telematics, it would be left with industrial electronics and transportation services as its core businesses. 

 Analysts noted industrial electronics posted a 4.1% slide in half-year sales and a decline in the operating margin to 10.4% from 12.6% a year ago. The company expects the division's sales for the full year to be about 5% lower than last year, although it said it remains confident about future opportunities particularly in bank machines and similar devices. 

 The transportation-services division reported a 7.6% drop in sales, although the company noted it will benefit from some major U.K. rail contracts. 

 The defense arm, meanwhile, increased sales 8% in the period and improved its margin to 6.1% from 4.8%. It also unveiled two export contracts for land and naval electronic warfare systems valued together at 28 million pounds. 

 The company remains confident about its prospects and as Commerzbank analyst James Heal noted, Racal has a strong record of spinning value out of businesses. 

 Under Harrison, mobile phone business Vodafone, which is now Vodafone AirTouch PLC (VOD), was built up and then spun off in 1991. 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dvc800mmg




BUSINESS
A question of 'selective disclosure'; Firms play favorites in revealing news

ADAM LEVY; Bloomberg News   
1,501 words
7 December 1999
Houston Chronicle
HOU
3 STAR
1
English
Copyright 1999. Hearst Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

NEW YORK - During the first 30 minutes of trading on Aug. 12, Mark Trautman watched the market value of Clorox Co. drop by $1.8 billion, or 14.5 percent, costing him $1 million.

The bleach maker had reported a 6 percent gain in fourth-quarter profit on a 3 percent drop in sales. Trautman, who invests $65 million at Shay Asset Management in New York, was convinced something else had caused Clorox stock to drop 15 points. Little did he know that Clorox Chairman Craig Sullivan was warning investors and analysts on an invitation-only conference call that profit wouldn't meet expectations for the next two quarters.

"It's outrageous that I didn't have the same information as some others" says Trautman, who now holds 92,000 Clorox shares. "I was completely in the dark."

Almost daily, companies from Wal-Mart Stores to Apple Computer to Abercrombie & Fitch Co. dole out market-moving information to big investors and analysts in conference calls, closed-door meetings, or one-on-one conversations. That gives some large investors a chance to bail out or profit and leaves some smaller money managers at a disadvantage.

When companies parcel out critical information to some investors and not to others, it's known as selective disclosure. While experts don't always agree on when it occurs or even whether it's illegal, regulators say selective disclosure is unethical and damages the integrity of the stock market. "Selectiveness is a disservice to investors, and it undermines the fundamental principle of fairness," U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Arthur Levitt said in an October speech in New York. "The practice is downright deceptive and verges on illegality."

Everyone with a stake in the stock market is affected by selective disclosure. About 78.7 million people own shares - either directly or through mutual funds and pension plans - up 86 percent from 1983, according to a survey by the Investment Company Institute and the Securities Industry Association.

Yet many money managers can't get timely information from companies.

"The playing field isn't level," says Fredric Russell, chief executive of Fredric E. Russell Investment Management Co., a Tulsa, Okla., firm that manages $75 million. "Some investors are more equal than others."

And there's no sign that that distinction will change anytime soon.

Some recent examples:

In July, at the annual Sun Valley, Idaho, summer conference held by investment bank Allen & Co., Pixar Chief Executive Steve Jobs told a gathering of other CEOs and powerful investors that his animation studio would beat quarterly earnings estimates. That information gave those at the meeting a head start in buying the stock, which gained as much as 6 percent that day.

Officials at Apple Computer, Jobs' other company, called up several Wall Street analysts on Sept. 23 to tell them that an earthquake in Taiwan had disrupted computer production and could reduce quarterly revenues by as much as $50 million. Within three days, Apple shares fell more than 7 percent.

On Oct. 8, an Abercrombie & Fitch Co. senior executive told a Lazard Freres & Co. analyst that the retailer's third-quarter sales would fall short of expectations. The company said nothing publicly for five days, giving Lazard's clients a big head start to sell shares or short them, essentially betting on a decline. The stock dropped 15 percent before the company confirmed the sales shortfall.

On Nov. 12, Abercrombie said the SEC is investigating the release of that information. Abercrombie investor relations director Lonnie Fogel was told to take a leave of absence for reportedly leaving a voice mail message with Lazard analyst Todd Slater, which said the "whisper range" estimate for Abercrombie's sales was too high.

"News has a way of filtering first to the ears of big, powerful investors and analysts," says Carl Domino, who manages $2.4 billion at Carl Domino Associates in West Palm Beach, Fla. "Some get invited to meetings before others. That's the way corporate America works."

Companies say they're not trying to hide anything and have legitimate reasons for giving information to a screened group of investment professionals.

"It's not feasible to invite everyone on a conference call," says Craig Manson, vice president of investor relations at Ceridian Corp. of Minneapolis, which provides human resources services such as payroll processing for corporations. "Conference calls are an enormous expense, a huge chunk of my budget." He says a quarterly conference call that may include as many as 120 analysts and investors costs more than $10,000.

Conference calls cost companies a flat fee plus at least 30 cents per line per minute and additional charges for archiving the presentations and replays. If Ceridian held four conference calls per year at a total cost of $50,000, that would amount to less than 0.01 percent of the $393.8 million it spent on selling, general and administrative - also known as SG&A - costs last year.

Wal-Mart, the world's biggest retailer, says the lines would clog if it opened up conference calls to all of its interested shareholders.

"Physically, we'd have a hard time getting everybody on," says Wal-Mart Senior Vice President and Treasurer Jay Fitzsimmons, who also cited the expense of hosting a teleconference. Wal-Mart had SG&A costs of $22.4 billion last year.

In November, Wal-Mart scrapped its quarterly conference call and provided all investors with a phone number to access pre-recorded comments related to its earnings.

Other companies don't want small investors on their calls because, they say, these listeners might be misled.

"Ours isn't a simple call," says Joseph Kolshak, director of investor relations at Delta Air Lines, the third-largest U.S. airline. "It's really targeted for a specialized audience."

Gillette Co., Caterpillar and International Business Machine Corp. say they prefer that small investors get their information from the Wall Street analysts who track the companies.

"We're more comfortable with individual investors getting an account of the calls from the analysts," says Hervey Parke, IBM's director of investor relations.

Big investors and analysts - those who benefit the most from selective disclosure - like the practice.

"I don't mind companies' restricting attendance on calls and conferences - as long as I'm invited," says Anthony Valencia, an analyst at Van Deventer & Hoch, a Glendale, Calif., firm that manages $1.5 billion. "As a big investor with a big stake in the company, of course I appreciate having a head start on critical information before others."

Wall Street analysts also covet the inside scoop so vital to enticing prospective investors to buy. Company executives, in turn, mete out information to gain favor with brokerage analysts whose influential buy recommendations can make or break stocks. "Executives believe they'll get good coverage from analysts if they give them selected information," says Brian Bruce, a finance professor at Southern Methodist University's graduate business school, who studies the flow of information from companies to investors.

The SEC's Levitt is blunt in his condemnation of the ties between Wall Street and companies.

"Analysts act more like promoters and marketers than unbiased and dispassionate analysts," Levitt said in his October speech, calling the ties between companies and analysts "a web of dysfunctional relationships."

Some companies invoke federal copyright law either to restrict access to the conference calls or to prevent distribution of recordings to those who couldn't attend.

For the past year, General Motors Corp. has been copyrighting its conference calls to deter others from rebroadcasting them and to ward off some listeners. Copyright law, though, doesn't confer the ownership of calls that those companies assert, says David Nimmer, the leading expert on the subject in the United States and author of ``Nimmer on Copyright," a 10-volume work that has been cited multiple times by the U.S. Supreme Court. Copyright law, he says, doesn't cover conference calls becausesuch calls involve impromptu conversations between several parties and are not written statements.

"Federal copyright law doesn't apply to conference calls because it only applies to works fixed in a tangible medium of expression," says Nimmer, a lawyer with the Los Angeles firm Irell & Manella. "A conversation wouldn't qualify."

The SEC has done plenty of jawboning to discourage selective disclosure, but little else.

That's because the law is far from clear on the issue, says John Coffee, a Columbia University professor of securities law. While SEC rules prohibit selective disclosure, the agency has never specified what it is.

"The SEC hasn't tried to push on selective disclosure," Coffee says, "in part because it hasn't spelled out what it is but also because it's hard to prove." The SEC would be able to prosecute selective disclosure, he adds, only when it's clearly insider trading.

Document HOU0000020120818dvc700mwl




Abreast of the Market
 Tech Shares Continue to Advance As Qualcomm and Broadcom Rise 

 By Robert O'Brien 
Dow Jones Newswires
1,106 words
7 December 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
C4
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 NEW YORK -- Blue chips declined, stalling last week's rise, but technology stocks proved unstoppable once again. 

 Shares of Qualcomm advanced again, rising 10 5/16 to 394 3/4 on the Nasdaq Stock Market, while Broadcom gained 13 3/4 to 221 1/2 and SDL added 15 1/2 to 198 1/2, also on Nasdaq. Yahoo! (Nasdaq), slated to join the Standard & Poor's 500 Stock Index today, celebrated with a jump of 27 13/16 to 280 13/16 in what proved another volatile session for the new-technology sector. 

 Analysts said fundamentals, as evidenced by continued profit growth and dimmed inflation, remained solidly supportive of the equities market, but shortterm thinking added a jolt of volatility to the day-to-day proceedings. 

 Several blue-chip issues staged sharp moves. International Business Machines, adding to its rise Friday, tacked on 3 7/8 to 115 7/8. 

 Coca-Cola lost 4 1/8 to 64 1/116 after Douglas Ivester, the chairman and chief executive who took over two years ago, said he planned to step down in April. 

 Merrill Lynch said it chalked the sharp reaction in share price to what it called the unexpected nature of the coming departure, though it added the company's fundamentals continue to improve. Morgan Stanley cut its rating on the stock. 

 Shares of AT&T staged a turbulent intraday performance, though it closed little changed, off 3/16 to 56 13/16. The telecommunications company conducted an analyst meeting in New York at which company officials unveiled details of its operational plans. The plans are to include a wireless tracking stock that reflects the value of the company's wireless communications units. 

 Shares of MindSpring Enterprises advanced 3 11/16 to 36 on Nasdaq, after AT&T agreed to allow rival companies such as MindSpring to deliver high-speed Internet access over its cable lines. Excite At Home, which has an exclusive service-provision contract with AT&T that runs through 2002, fell 3 1/16 to 49 on Nasdaq. 

 MediaOne Group, the broadband communications concern that AT&T has agreed to purchase, gained 1 3/16 to 80 3/16. EarthLink, expected to merge with MindSpring in the first quarter of next year, increased 4 7/16 to 57 13/16 on Nasdaq. 

 Next Level Communications rose 3 11/16 to 69 15/16 on Nasdaq. A host of Wall Street firms launched coverage of the Rohnert Park, Calif., communications-systems concern, which made its public debut last month. 

 BEA Systems added 4 1/2 to 120 on Nasdaq and reached a 52-week high in intraday trading. The Sunnyvale, Calif., transaction software developer reorganized its businesses into four electronic-commerce divisions, an undertaking some analysts had anticipated. Credit Suisse First Boston reiterated its strong buy on the stock, which it had raised to that rating last week. 

 IXL Enterprises gained 1 to 38 3/4 on Nasdaq. The Atlanta Internet-service concern agreed to an alliance that allows it to use BEA's line of electronic-commerce transaction services as a core technology. 

 LSI Logic gained 6 3/16 to 71 1/4. Warburg Dillon Read raised its 2000 earnings estimates on the stock of the Milpitas, Calif., integrated circuit maker, and increased its 12-month price target to 90 from 70. LSI Logic traded at a 52-week high yesterday. 

 Expedia fell 6 3/16 to 48 3/4 on Nasdaq despite some encouraging comments from Wall Street analysts. Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley started coverage of the stock, which went public last month. 

 The declines came after Cheap Tickets, a Honolulu concern that sells discount airline tickets on the Internet, warned it wouldn't meet Wall Street expectations. The company said competition from airlines, which are undertaking a discounting program, will hurt profits. Cheap Tickets fell 5 13/16 to 12 1/2 on Nasdaq. 

 Shares of other ticket retailers ended mixed. Sabre Holdings, which operates Travelocity, fell 2 3/4 to 45, while Preview Travel rose 3 1/8 to 55 1/8 on Nasdaq. 

 C-Cube Microsystems added 4 to 49 1/4 on Nasdaq, following some optimistic comments from Lehman Brothers, which said shares of the Milpitas, Calif., maker of communications chips and software are undervalued. 

 Atmel added 1 1/2 to 53 15/16 on Nasdaq, reaching another 52-week high. Warburg Dillon Read issued an upbeat report about the company, raising its 12-month price target on the stock to 80 from 55. 

 Nokia's American depositary shares increased 21 1/8 to 176 1/8 in primary New York Stock Exchange trading. Lehman Brothers raised its price target on the stock, saying the company hosted what it called a highly positive meeting Friday with analysts in Dallas. 

 U.S. Bancorp fell 9 3/4 to 25 3/8. The Minneapolis banking concern warned Wall Street it would miss earnings projections for the fourth-quarter and 2000. Merrill Lynch, reacting to the profit warning, cut its rating on the stock to a neutral from an accumulate on a near-term basis. 

 Kroger fell 5 3/16 to 15 3/8. J.P. Morgan lowered its rating on the stock of the Cincinnati supermarket operator, after the company reported fiscal third-quarter earnings that matched Wall Street's target. In a report, J.P. Morgan criticized what it called the "low quality" of the profit performance. 

 Other supermarket operators also lost ground. Safeway fell 3 5/16 to 32 1/2, Albertson's, which sank last week on weaker-than-expected profits, was unchanged at 30 1/2 and SuperValu declined 1 1/4 to 17 3/4. 

 Rite Aid increased 3 1/2 to 11 3/4. The Camp Hill, Pa., drugstore chain announced a new management team headed by Robert G. Miller, Kroger's vice chairman, who will become chairman and chief executive of Rite Aid. 

 Continental Airlines lost 1 1/2 to 38 1/2. Salomon Smith Barney cut its rating on the Houston air carrier, citing the impact of rising fuel prices. 

 ICN Pharmaceuticals fell 3/4 to 23 15/16. A group of investors wants the Costa Mesa, Calif., drug maker to sell or spin off some major assets to finance a stock repurchase, according to a regulatory filing yesterday. 

 Four Seasons Hotel gained 2 15/16 to 53 3/16. PaineWebber raised its rating on the Toronto luxury hotel operator to attractive from neutral. 

Document j000000020010828dvc700xvs




 FOCUS-Raisio admits Benecol has done poorly in US. 

 By Adam Jasser 
632 words
2 December 1999
12:49
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 HELSINKI, Dec 2 (Reuters) - Finnish food group Raisio  admitted on Thursday, a day after its share price plunged 30 percent, that its anti-cholesterol food agent Benecol had fared relatively poorly on the key U.S. market. 

 Raisio shares, once a darling of foreign investors, plunged to their lowest level since 1996 on Wednesday after Warburg Dillon Reed cut its target price to 3.3 euros and downgraded earnings forecasts for 2000 and 2001. 

 The share rebounded weakly on Thursday, on local bargain hunting, trading up nine cents at 4.37 euros at 1230 GMT. 

 Dealers said Warburg downgraded Raisio after a report in U.S. magazine Advertising Age that the Finnish company's partner Johnson & Johnson had trimmed a U.S. ad campaign for foodstuffs containing Benecol because of poor initial sales. 

 Flooded with calls from angry investors, Raisio admitted on Thursday sales in the United States were disappointing compared to other countries where Benecol products had been launched. 

 It also promised to revamp its information policy in response to accusations it should have informed markets earlier. Chief Executive Tor Bergman told Reuters that investors were right to be annoyed. 

 "We acknowledge our responsibility to shareholders that everyone has a clear picture. Such share volatility is not acceptable," he said. 

 "It is clear that McNeil (a Johnson & Johnson unit) and Raisio had a situation where we would have come out with a statement, but somehow this got to Advertising Age and the market overreacted," he said. 

 The company also seemed to confirm that J&J pulled the plug on the big-scale advertising campaign and would rather target the medical profession - a sign of scaled down expectations. 

 "Early market research in the U.S. confirms that the doctor plays a critical role in educating consumers and encouraging them to try Benecol," Raisio said. 

 According to Advertising Age, the $100 million campaign launched in May through Saatchi & Saatchi Healthcare in New York was discontinued because of poor impact. 

 Raisio, whose high valuation in relation to sales reflected hopes for a quick boom in Benecol sales, insisted long-term prospects were good. 

 "Consumers are just starting to understand the true benefits of Benecol," it said. "Raisio sees growth and long-term potential for the Benecol product line." 

 NO TRANSPARENCY 

 The small Finnish company developed Benecol in the early 1990s from a by-product of wood processing, stanol ester, which has been found to lower so-called "bad" cholesterol levels by up to 14 percent if consumed regularly. 

 Benecol margarine has been sold in Finland since 1995, but Raisio lacked clout to enter other markets when itsconvincing clinical tests attracted J&J. 

 The U.S. giant promised Raisio a quick U.S. launch and a stream of profits, and the two companies signed a marketing deal in July 1997, sending already buoyant share to a peak of 18.08 euros in May 1998. 

 Enthusiasm waned, however, as the U.S. launch was delayed until May this year because of a dispute with the Food and Drug Administration, and other producers such as Unilever   launched rival cholesterol-cutting functional foods. 

 Raisio's apparently premature heavy investment to boost stanol ester production forced it to issue a profit-warning in September and continued lack of clarity on the revenue sharing agreement with J&J depressed its stock further. 

 Raisio's January-August profits fell 55 percent to 15 million euros, but despite Wednesday's plunge the company's shares traded at 21 times forecast 2000 earnings versus Unilever's ratio of 23, according to Reuters' Securities 3000. ((Helsinki newsroom +358-9-680 50 244, fax +358-9-6802284, news@reuters.fi)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dvc208tf3




 FOCUS-Raisio in freefall on downgrade. 

 By Adam Jasser 
507 words
1 December 1999
17:32
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 HELSINKI, Dec 1 (Reuters) - Shares in Finnish food group Raisio plunged by a third on Wednesday after a downgrade from Warburg Dillon Read cast doubt on the future of the company's star anti-cholesterol food agent Benecol. 

 Raisio stock plunged to a day low of 4.06 euros from 6.05 on Tuesday after dealers in London confirmed market rumours that Warburg cut Raisio's target price to 3.3 euros. It closed at 4.28 euros, down 29.3 percent. 

 Dealers said Warburg reduced its profit forecasts for 2000 and 2001 after a U.S. magazine report that Raisio's marketing partner Johnson & Johnson had stopped a U.S. advertising campaign for Benecol because of disappointing sales. 

 Officials at Warburg, Raisio and J&J's unit McNeil Consumers Products declined to comment on the report, which sent the stock to a lowest level since 1996 when the company was a budding darling of investors. 

 "I was expecting that there would be a rising trend due to the U.S. advertising campaign and this is a clear disappointment," one Helsinki-based analyst said. 

 Expectations that teaming up with J&J in July 1997 would set the company on a path to a rosy future and hefty profits sent the share skyrocketing to a peak of 18.08 euros in May 1998. 

 But the U.S. launch of Benecol products was delayed until May this year and apparently failed to ignite consumers as much as J&J and Raisio had hoped, sending the share on a rollercoaster ride downwards. 

 A September profit warning and continued lack of clarity on the revenue sharing agreement with J&J depressed Raisio further, but its shares remained higher valued than many peers on lingering hopes for Benecol. According to Reuters Securities 3000 data, Raisio was among the eight most expensive food companies in the euro zone, ahead of Anglo-Dutch Unilever - a direct competitor marketing its own anti-cholesterol food products. 

 Data showed that prior to Wednesday's plunge, Raisio traded at price to expected 2000 earnings ratio of 41 compared to Unilever's 23. 

 At the same time, consensus estimates collected by Barra research institute put Raisio's earnings per share at 0.29 euros next year after 0.08 forecast for this year. 

 Raisio's profits fell 55 percent to 14.5 million euros in January-August of this year from the same period in 1998. 

 In October, the company said it remained optimistic about its long-term outlook even though data on how well its Benecol products were doing in the United States or Europe was not released. 

 Raisio developed Benecol from a by-product of wood processing called stanol ester, which has been found to lower so-called "bad" cholesterol levels by up to 14 percent if consumed regularly. 

 Benecol margarine has been sold in Finland since 1995, and has been launched in Britain, Ireland and the Benelux countries. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dvc108zsh


 Fairlawn, Ohio-Based Building Products Firm Issues  Profit Warning 

 John Russell 
365 words
1 December 1999
KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Akron Beacon Journal - Ohio
KRTBN
English
Copyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)

 Just nine weeks after striking out on its own, Omnova Solutions Inc. is warning investors that fourth-quarter earnings will fall short of last year's results. 

 The Fairlawn-based company, which split off from GenCorp in October, said it expects diluted earnings per share from operations for the quarter ending Nov. 30 to finish at 20 cents to 22 cents, compared to 35 cents for those businesses in the same period last year. 

 Omnova said it is taking steps to cut costs, including selling the company jet, based at the Akron-Canton Airport, and eliminating the flight-operations department. 

 The company also said its board has authorized the repurchase of up to $25 million worth of common stock over the next 18 months. 

 The company made the announcements late Monday, after the markets closed. Shares in Omnova yesterday fell 3/4, closing at 6 1/4. 

 Most of Omnova's raw materials are oil-based, and are suffering from a huge rise in cost as the price of oil increases. PVC resin prices have climbed more than 50 percent this year, and styrene monomer prices have increased 40 percent, the company said. 

 "Our businesses are continuing to perform well, but certainly not in a way that could overcome the high cost of raw materials," spokeswoman Sandi Noah said. 

 The company said it expects fourth-quarter sales to climb 10 percent over the same period last year, when the businesses rang up $27.3 million in sales. 

 Six employees in the Omnova's flight-operations department are retiring or being offered early retirement plans. A seventh employee has been reassigned. 

 In addition to selling its jet, Omnova said it has reduced overhead and manufacturing costs to a record low, as a percentage of sales, in its performance chemicals business. But the company declined yesterday to state that figure or say how it was achieved. 

 The company said it is also moving ahead with initiatives to increase sales, such as entering international markets, accelerating product development and cross-selling new products acquired in recent business deals. 

 Omnova will release fourth-quarter earnings on Jan. 13. 

Document krtbn00020010828dvc1026vj

Search Summary

 Text((“profit*” same “warning*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”))) OR ((“profit*” same “fall*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“headwind” same “profit*”) (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”)))   Date12/01/1999 to 12/31/1999   SourceAll Sources   AuthorAll Authors   CompanyAll Companies   SubjectCorporate/Industrial News   IndustryAll Industries   RegionUnited States   LanguageEnglish   Results Found33   Timestamp27 March 2018 9:49  
 Page 90 of 90     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

