 
•	  WALL ST WK AHEAD-Hangover of earnings warnings deepens gloom. 
•	  Israel stocks close year with declines, Nice plunges. 
•	 RESEARCH ALERT-Nice price target  cut .
•	  Union Pacific warning sends railroad stocks down. 
•	  US stocks set for weak start as dismal year nears end. 
•	 From peak to trough, from fantasy to failure
•	 Winners and losers - Information
•	 Union Pacific Issues 4th-Quarter  Profit Warning
•	 RESEARCH ALERT-Magic Software price target  cut  to $4/shr.
•	 RESEARCH ALERT-Netro  cut  to market performer.
•	 Business briefs
•	 Shares of Network Associates Plunge After 4th-Quarter  Profit Warning
•	  Nightly Business Report 
•	  Requiem for the halcyon ad days: Next 12 months in media expected to be subdued 
•	  Early but Right: Fred Hickey predicted the tech wreck but sees only a few buys now --- By Andrew Bary 
•	  US slowdown seen souring Indian IT dreams. 
•	 Rate  Cut  Plea Amid Share Panic
•	 UPDATE 1-Air Canada issues  profit warning , cuts jobs.
•	 Air Canada shares tumble on  profit warning .
•	  Chicago Tribune Market Report Column 
•	 FIRMS SEE EARNINGS DROP; LUCENT, FORD, XEROX ISSUE WARNINGS
•	 NATION/WORLD
•	  Companies: Lucent Predicts Quarterly Loss And Blames Focus Problems --- AT&T Slices Dividend 83% and Reduces Projection for Earnings...
•	  GUEST EDITORS' OVERVIEW OF THE ISSUE.(Brief Article) 
•	  Georgia-Pacific Says 4th-Quarter Profit Will Be `Substantially Below' Forecasts 
•	  BRIDGE UPDATE-MAJOR MARKETS - Japan stocks up on Nasdaq rebound. 
•	  Desperate dot-coms scramble for new business models: The sector may not be mature enough to survive a recession 
•	 Ford Shares Fall on  Profit Warning
•	  US GIANT'S ALARM CALL HAS TELECOMS TUMBLING ... 
•	  UPDATE 11-Tech sector batters U.S. stocks. 
•	  Home Depot offers unusual 10 pct storewide discount. 
•	 U.S. stocks climb, techs stage  cautious  comeback.
•	  Evening Standard, London, Market Report Column 
•	  Markets Selloff Is a Symptom Of Major Economies Slowing --- Few Believe Downturn Will Be Severe Or That World Economy Is Entering Recession...
•	  BRIEFS RealNetworks Cuts Sales Forecast 
•	  Asian stocks tumble in wake of Wall Street 
•	  BUSINESS TODAY Series: BUSINESS TODAY  
•	  Union Pacific stuck on the slow track: Analysts lower estimates: Soaring fuel prices, cooling economy hurt traffic volume 
•	  FFBN Tech Wrap: Profit Warnings Pull Index Down 7.8% 
•	 Ford Issues Another  Profit Warning , Will Idle Most North American Plants
•	  ADR Report: ADRs Up, But Lucent Warning Curtails Gains 
•	  Lucent Sees 1Q Pro Forma Loss From Cont Op 25c-30c/Shr 
•	  Lucent Faces Slow Recovery After Coming Clean With Mkt 
•	  U.S. stocks mired in red as profit angst plagues Street. 
•	  U.S. stocks seen mixed in Europe trade, Cisco down. 
•	  U.S. stocks set for glum opening as profit woes mount. 
•	 Worthington earnings miss already- cut  target.
•	  UPDATE 10-Tech sector batters U.S. stocks. 
•	 Analysts  cut  outlook on North American railroads.
•	  U.S. stocks bleed as profit woes plague Wall Street. 
•	 Microsoft Plans Spending  Cut , Pay Boost
•	  A happier new year for Gates? 
•	  Companies: Microsoft Plans To Reduce Costs, Boost Some Salaries --- Chief Executive Rejects The Possibility of Layoffs 
•	 Norfolk Southern Cites Freight  Decline  In Issuing  Profit Warning  for 4th Period
•	  Microsoft Plans to Reduce Costs --- Expenditure Cuts Will Come Even as Company Increases Some Salaries --- Chief Rejects Possibility of...
•	  Auto-Parts Supplier TRW Warns 4th-Quarter Results Will Miss Estimates 
•	  Ford Sees `Record' Sales Growth in 2000 Despite Firestone Recall 
•	  Fiber Optics Cos Take Beating; Street Sees Slow Recovery 
•	  MARKET TALK: Chips Are Stacked Against The Group 
•	  MARKET TALK: eMachines To Miss, But How Low Can Stock Go? 
•	  Legal, business pitfalls await Microsoft. 
•	  UPDATE 2-Randstad restructures to boost profit, sells Lavold. 
•	 Microsoft to  cut  costs while raising some salaries-WSJ.
•	  Randstad restructures to boost profit,sells Lavold. 
•	 Dollar Tree shares slide 41 percent due to  profit warning .
•	  RESEARCH ALERT - Banc of America cuts Pentair. 
•	  YEARAHEAD - Legal, business pitfalls await Microsoft. 
•	 Markets Time Warner  Profit Warning  Prompts Sell-Off Media: Announcement that growth will miss estimates causes company's shares and those of AOL to drop more than 13%.
•	 Polaroid produces dark snapshot
•	  Companies: Ballmer Plans To Slice Costs At Microsoft --- CEO Also Offers Raises To Keep Some From Leaving 
•	  Time Warner Warns of Lower Earnings 
•	 Microsoft Plans To  Cut  Costs, Not Salaries
•	  Microsoft Plans to Reduce Costs, Boost Salaries in Rebound Effort 
•	  UPDATE 4-DaimlerChrysler cuts forecast, says worse to come. 
•	  RESEARCH ALERT-Merrill cuts Henkel to "neutral". 
•	  Stocks Sink Amid Heavy Volume In Wake of Microsoft Profit News   
•	  DoubleClick loses main political PR expert in DC. 
•	 Business Brief -- Tanning Technology Corp.: Issuance of  Profit Warning  Sends Stock Into 27% Slide
•	 FFBN Tech Wrap: Microsoft  Profit Warning  Sends Stks Down
•	  Earnings Warnings Whack the Market Again 
•	 Solutia Issues 4th-Quarter  Profit Warning , Plans to  Cut  Work Force
•	  WSJ.COM: Industrials Surge Amid Fed Hopes; Nasdaq Slumps 
•	  INTERVIEW-Koor says foreign firms interested in ECI units. 
•	  UPDATE 1-Chrysler to post $1.25 bln Q4 loss - paper. 
•	  Counting the cost of boom and bust 21st century style. 
•	 HARD TIMES MAY GET WORSE FOR AREA AUTO PLANTS 
•	  How Might Bush's Proposals Impact Your Portfolio? 
•	 STOCKS SLIDE ON MICROSOFT  PROFIT WARNING  -- SOME ANALYSTS FEAR ECONOMIC 'MALAISE' SPREADING TO LARGER MARKET
•	  TECH WEEK IN REVIEW: Microsoft Gives Techs More Bad News 
•	  Nightly Business Report 
•	  PRESS DIGEST-Wall Street Journal - Dec 15. 
•	  UPDATE 3-Microsoft cuts profit forecast amid tech slump. 
•	  WRAPUP - Stocks dip, bonds up on profit fears - euro strong. 
•	  US Treasuries lifted as U.S. stocks tremble. 
•	  UPDATE 1-Bargain-hunters help Toronto stocks pare losses. 
•	  U.S. stocks slammed as Microsoft adds to profit jitters. 
•	  Bargain-hunters help Toronto stocks pare losses. 
•	  US Treasuries lift as technology stocks tremble. 
•	  In an unprecedented earnings warning by the world's top software company, Microsoft Corp... 
•	  U.S. stocks pare losses after Microsoft news prompts thrashing. 



 WALL ST WK AHEAD-Hangover of earnings warnings deepens gloom. 

 By Emma-Kate Symons 
909 words
31 December 2000
20:46
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 31 (Reuters) - New year cheer will be in short supply this week on Wall Street, as investors brace for another round of warnings of lower corporate profits and a fresh battering for U.S. stocks. 

 2000 ended badly on the stock market, marking the demise of the five-year bull run, when the Nasdaq Composite Index clocked the worst performance in its 29-year history, amid a slackening U.S. economy. 

 History does not favor a robust opening to the year, given the sharp slide in stock prices in November and December. 

 According to The Hirsch Organization Inc., "January's first five days usually decline in a new or continuing bear market." 

 Add to this the hangover of earnings warnings that were delayed because of the Christmas/New Year holiday period, plus a round of downward forecasts - and the outlook is gloomy. 

 "Better nurse your New Year's hangover on Monday and take a long nap through all those bowl games you were going to watch," said Chuck Hill, research director at First Call/Thomson Financial, a compiler of analysts' earnings estimates. 

 In 2000, 43 percent of fourth-quarter warnings came after Jan. 1, Hill said. 

 The only bright spot on the horizon is the possibility of an interest rate cut by the end of January. 

 "It's just hard to garnish a lot of enthusiasm for the market with a softer economy and quarterly earnings warnings looming out there," said Peter Coolidge, managing director of equity trading at Brean Murray & Co. "People don't know what's coming next." 

 DATA MAY PERK EARLY RATE CUT HOPES 

 The markets will be closed Monday for the New Year's Day holiday. Tuesday will, however, will be business as usual, with a smattering of earnings reports, key economic data, and of course the all-too-familiar earnings warnings. 

 With an economic slowdown underway, investors are looking to see how bad the economic horizon looks to guess by how much the U.S. central bank may eventually have to reduce interest rates. 

 Analysts said some in the market who expect the Federal Reserve to cut rates before its late January meeting are looking for a jump in the unemployment rate to justify that view. Employment figures and new home sales will be released on Friday. 

 "If we get through next week without any bombshells, we'll probably wait until Jan. 31 and they'll only cut rates by a quarter of a point," Mark Vitner, economist at First Union Corp said on Friday. 

 Wall Street now almost unanimously expects the central bank at its late January meeting to cut its funds rate 25 basis points to 6.25 percent from the current 6.5 percent. The Fed last cut interest rates in November 1998. 

 RETAILERS SHED LIGHT ON SOFT SPENDING 

 On Thursday, many retailers will report same-store sales, providing insight into consumer confidence and the state of the economy - which could be "the biggest news of the week," according to First Call/Thomson Financial's Hill. 

 Retailer Walgreen Co. will report quarterly earnings on Tuesday, and Discount retail chain Family Dollar Stores Inc. is due on Wednesday. 

 Last week, U.S. retail sales had a grim end for a glum year that has been marred by a slowing economy, higher interest rates and deflated consumer sentiment. 

 As the hopes for a slight swell in sales dwindled, a handful of Wall Street analysts predicted that even some of the country's top retailers would fail to meet December sales forecasts, and may also see fourth-quarter earnings below expectations. 

 But despite the dreary prospects, retail stocks rose on the idea that the worst may well be over. The Standard & Poor's retail index rose 35.39 points, or about 4.4 percent, to 838.46 late on Wednesday afternoon. 

 Even No. 1 retailer Wal-Mart Stores Inc., which last week warned that its December same-store sales would come in below its previously expected 3 to 5 percent rise, saw its share price surge more than 5 percent, or $2-5/8, to trade at $53-1/4. 

 Other companies scheduled to release quarterly results this week include brokerages Bear Stearns and Lehman Bros - although the outlook will be for the negative forecasts for the coming quarter. 

Profit warnings again kept market sentiment bearish in the last week of 2000. The nation's largest railroad, Union Pacific Corp., joined such marquee names as Intel Corp. General Motors Corp. and Eastman Kodak Co. in warning results will disappoint investors. 

 The Nasdaq ended the last trading week of 2000 off nearly 2 percent. It closed Friday down 87.24, or 3.41 percent, at 2470.52. Friday's drop put Nasdaq's loss for 2000 at 39.28 percent, and the index was down more than half from its all-time March high. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average ended up 1.4 percent for the week, but it had its worst year since 1981, with a loss of more than 6 percent. The Dow closed on Friday down 81.91 points, or 0.75 percent, at 10786.85. 

 The benchmark Standard & Poor's 500 index on Friday closed down 13.94 points, or 1.04 percent, at 1320.28. In 2000, the S&P shed 10.1 percent, its worst performance since 1977. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcv08u3v




 Israel stocks close year with declines, Nice plunges. 

519 words
31 December 2000
15:55
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 TEL AVIV, Dec 31 (Reuters) - Israeli shares closed 2000 with a downturn on Sunday, led by a leap into the abyss by digital voice and data recording company Nice Systems , which lost more than 40 percent of its value on a profit warning. 

 Nice's woes began on Thursday when it announced fourth quarter results would end with no earnings or a loss instead of an anticipated profit. Since then, its shares in Tel Aviv and on the Nasdaq have lost close to 70 percent. 

 On Sunday alone, the stock fell 41 percent in Tel Aviv to 79.50 shekels. Investment house Lehman Brothers slashed its price target for the share to a now optimistic $40 from $75. 

 "Basically the (blue chip index) has been down only a bit because of Nice...but it smashed the Tel-Tech technology index," said a trader at the Ilanot Batucha investment house. 

 The blue-chip Tel Aviv 25 index closed 1.26 percent lower at 506.05 points, while the broader TA-100 index fell 1.08 percent to 489.25 points. The technology Teltech index tumbled 7.6 percent. 

 Volume was 307.9 million shekels compared with 527.5 million shekels on Thursday, the last day of the Israeli trading week. 

 Nasdaq's year-end weakness and a grim political situation clouded trading in other shares, traders said. 

 "The feeling is (Prime Minister Ehud) Barak isn't going to make it as far as a peace deal or staying in power is concerned," the Ilanot trader said. 

 Barak has sought to clinch a peace deal with the Palestinians to end a three-month uprising ahead of a prime ministerial election on February 6. 

 But hopes for an end to the fighting turned sour over the weekend after the two sides could not find common ground in a U.S.-proposed peace plan and fresh violence broke out in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. 

 "At the end of the day, you just try to look for confidence (inspiring) gestures and you're not getting any," the trader said. 

 Nasdaq's close on Friday, at less than half its value in January, has also curtailed a stock celebration in Tel Aviv. 

 Dual-listed Elron Electronic Industries lost 8.4 percent to 104.40 shekels while software house Formula Systems retreated 8.1 percent to 116.60 shekels. 

 Formula said on Thursday it seeks to buy back all outstanding shares in holding Mashov Computers at 9 shekels per share, prompting a 19 percent surge in Mashov stock to 8.83 shekels. 

 Leading technology holding companies Koor Industries and Clal Industries & Investments sank after Bank Hapoalim cut its ratings on both shares to hold from buy. 

 Clal lost 4.1 percent and Koor shed 2.5 percent. 

 Heavyweight Teva Pharmaceutical Industries was one of the only shares ending on the upside, closing 1 percent higher to 288.90 shekels. 

 -Tel Aviv 100 index constituents 

 -Tel Aviv 25 index constituents 

 -Tel Aviv 100 index 

 -Tel Aviv 25 index 

 -Tel Aviv technology index 

 ($1 = 4.04 shekels). 

Document lba0000020010821dwcv08u1v




 RESEARCH ALERT-Nice price target  cut . 

144 words
31 December 2000
13:08
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 TEL AVIV, Dec 31 (Reuters) - Lehman Brothers slashed its price target for Israel's Nice Systems to $40 a share from $75 after the company said it would report lower than expected fourth quarter revenues and either no earnings or a loss. 

 The company's profit warning last Thursday triggered a 61 percent plunge in the company's Nasdaq-traded share, which closed at $20-1/16 on Friday. 

 Lehman analyst Tim Luke said in a report dated Friday and released on Sunday that he was lowering his 2001 earnings per share estimate to $1.60 from $2.50. 

 "We consider Nice a value play at current levels of just 11 times 2001 EPS and are reiterating our 1-buy rating. Our $40 price target reflects the EPS adjustment," the report said. 

 Nice makes multimedia digital recording systems. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcv08tys




 Union Pacific warning sends railroad stocks down. 

324 words
28 December 2000
15:40
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 28 (Reuters) - Union Pacific Corp. shares stumbled on Thursday, a day after the largest U.S. railroad warned that its earnings will miss expectations and said it will cut about 4 percent of its workforce. 

 Other railroad players fell in sympathy, as the industry reels from high fuel costs and slowing industrial output. 

 Shares of Omaha. Neb.-based Union Pacific stock were down $2-3/4, or 5.23 percent, to $49-7/8 on the New York Stock Exchange. Norfolk Southern Corp. dropped 11/16, or 4.9 percent, to $13-1/4, while CSX Corp. fell 15/16, or 3.5 percent, to $25-13/16. Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corp. were off 1/2, or 1.72 percent, to $28-5/8. 

 Railroads, which carry a broad range of products for consumers and producers, tend to rise and fall with the strength of the industrial economy, analysts say. 

 And fuel prices as much as 70 percent higher than at the same time last year are compounding the problem. 

 "The level of overall economic activity has slowed so dramatically during the fourth quarter, we must accelerate the pace of cost reductions to match demand for our services," Union Pacific Chairman Dick Davidson said in a statement released Wednesday afternoon. 

 The company said it expects to report fourth-quarter earnings of 87 cents to 90 cents a share before one-time severance expenses of $70 million. Consensus analyst estimates were 93 cents, according to research firm First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 The job reductions will come primarily in first half 2001, with half of the 2,000 jobs being eliminated through attrition. 

 Earlier in December, Norfolk Southern announced a profit warning, triggering Wall Street to slash estimates on the entire sector. 

 J.P Morgan said then that declining production of vehicles, chemicals, metals and forest products would take a chunk out of railroads' revenues. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcs08xcm




 US stocks set for weak start as dismal year nears end. 

 By Denise Duclaux 
610 words
28 December 2000
13:20
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 28 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks were poised for a weak opening on Thursday as investors are expected to pocket profits from a modest rally and keep up their guard as a dismal year for Wall Street approaches an end. 

 "The averages are going to open lower," said Prudential Securities analyst Larry Wachtel. "We have a struggle here to put together two back-to-back days of gains. There is a tendency to sell into strength. There is no catalyst." 

 Despite a more than 1.8 percent gain on Wednesday, the technology-dominated Nasdaq composite index .IXIC) remains on track for the worst yearly performance in its 29-year history. Last week, the Nasdaq hit a 21-month low. 

 A sprinkling of profit warnings has kept market sentiment bearish. The nation's largest railroad, Union Pacific Corp., after the opening bell on Wednesday joined marquee names like Intel Corp., General Motors Corp. and Eastman Kodak Co. in warning results will disappoint investors amid an economic slowdown. 

 Investors are betting the U.S. Federal Reserve will slash interest rates as a slowing economy casts a cloud on corporate profits, consumer confidence and the stock market. Some are hoping a rate cut could come before the central bank's next monetary policy meeting on Jan. 31. 

 Technology and financial stocks led European bourses to modest gains in thin holiday volumes by midday on Thursday, while U.S. futures pointed to a weak start on Wall Street. 

 With more than an hour to go before the opening bell, the Nasdaq 100 index futures had shed 36.50 points to 2,470.00. Standard & Poor's 500 Index futures had lost 6.50 points to 1,344.10. Dow Jones industrial average futures had fallen 66 points to 10,904. 

 The FTSE Eurotop 300 .FTEU3) was up 0.08 percent, while the narrower DJ Stoxx 50 .STOXX50E gained 0.33 percent. 

 How consumer confidence is holding up amid talk of corporate layoffs and rumblings about the possibility of recession will grab investors' attention on Thursday. 

 And since a major contributor to consumer confidence is perceptions about job security and employment prospects, analysts said, the Labor Department's weekly report on new and continuing claims for unemployment insurance (the jobless report) could also grab the market's attention. 

 The jobless claims numbers are due at 8:30 a.m. (1330 GMT) and the Conference Board's report on consumer confidence is scheduled for 10 a.m. (1500 GMT). 

 Economists polled by Reuters estimated, on average, that the Conference Board's consumer confidence measure fell to 128.7 in December from 133.5 in November. Their average estimate of new jobless claims in the week ended Dec. 23 was 351,000, versus 354,000 in the previous week. 

 Trading activity was expected to be light as market players take time out from the office and enjoy the days between the Christmas holiday and New Year's Eve. 

 Stocks rose on Wednesday as investors put aside worries about worsening profits and bought post-holiday bargains among beleaguered high-tech, retail and consumer shares. 

 The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite index .IXIC) rose 45.83 points, or 1.84 percent, to 2,539.35, after getting off to a weak start. 

 The blue chip Dow Jones industrial average .DJI) gained 110.72 points, or 1.04 percent, at 10,803.16, its fourth close in a row in the black. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index .SPX) was up 13.9 points, or 1.06 percent, at 1,329.09. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcs08wk9




News
From peak to trough, from fantasy to failure

Aaron Patrick NEW YORK   
1,629 words
28 December 2000
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
Late
1
English
Copyright 2000. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.   

Year in review

It was an orgy for the ages. Stock brokers selling prosperity, selling an investor's fantasy, and making themselves rich in the process.

It was the year 2000 and it marked the end of the technology stock boom, one of the great speculative events of the 20th century. From peak to trough, the Nasdaq Composite Index dropped by half and is likely to post its worst year ever.

There was not one technology stock among the top-10 performing S&P 500 companies in 2000. In the previous two years, only two non-technology companies made the list. Microsoft and Cisco Systems have been removed from the list of America's three largest companies and much of the internet sector has been virtually wiped out, including portfolio investor CMGI, the best-performing US share in the five years to 1999.

And while the tech sector has endured the greatest losses, the overall market has performed badly, too. As of Boxing Day, the Standard & Poor's 500 benchmark was heading for its first negative year since 1994 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average was down 7 per cent.

But Wall Street appears to have snatched affluence from the jaws of penury. In a year when the US economy grew about 3 per cent, the broking industry is expected to boost pre-tax profits by 23 per cent to a record $US20 billion ($37 billion). Earnings worldwide will be $US51 billion according to the Securities Industry Association.

And, despite reports to the contrary, bonuses are up. The New York State Treasurer's office estimates securities-industry performance pay will hit $US13.3 billion this year, up from $US12 billion in 1999. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, for example, increased its wages bill in the fourth quarter as trading revenue fell. The SIA reckons total industry compensation will be $US74.5 billion, compared with $US60.1 billion last year and $US47.3 billion the year before.

Even New York's commercial lawyers, usually near the bottom of the market's pecking order, have found themselves with generous end-of-year cheques (although this has prompted jokes that the good times really are about to end).

The effects can be seen at any trendy New York bar where mixed drinks start around $US17. There is an outdoor market in Manhattan, run by organic farmers, selling loaves of bread for $US19.

The riches-for-all atmosphere that has pervaded the market was fostered, or at least legitimised, by analyst cheer leaders of the internet revolution like Merrill Lynch's Henry Blodget and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter's Mary Meeker.

They argued it was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, and were proved right. As Wall Street's research community devised new ways to justify the unjustifiable Cisco's price-earnings ratio at its peak implied it would be producing half the world's output by 2010 the market began to crumble.

On March 13, a Monday, the Nasdaq Composite fell 141 points on light volume, prompting The Wall Street Journal to ask if it was a buying opportunity or the start of the pullback "many pros have expected in the overheating technology sector".

Within weeks it became clear the much-feared pricking of the bubble was under way. By April the Nasdaq had broken through 3,500 points and deflated "growth" stocks around the world, including many in Australia.

Many of the 10 million Americans trading online found themselves in a bear market for the first time. Some of their favourite stocks would lose 90 per cent of their value, including DoubleClick, VA Linux, Ask Jeeves and Microstrategy. The year-end fatality count for internet start-ups stands at 130, with many more in the balance.

It is the wealth effect in reverse. The crash eliminated about $US5,500 in sharemarket value for every person in the US. And while the losses are concentrated at the upper end of the socio-economic spectrum, including many brokers who had believed their own hype, the effects are being felt throughout the economy.

In December, US consumer confidence suffered one of its biggest falls on record, with the pessimism concentrated in households earning more than $100,000. Ironically, families most vulnerable to a cut in spending by the wealthy, the low paid, are far less worried, although surveys show some early signs of concern about job security.

There have also been big job losses in investment banking/broking, possibly explaining the industry's confidence about future profitability, and decision to pay record bonuses. Up to 10,000 jobs have disappeared with takeovers of JP Morgan, Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette and PaineWebber.

The broker with the largest sales force, Merrill Lynch, plans to cut 6-9 per cent of its 1,000-strong global research team in the next year. Investors who bought his internet picks might be hoping Henry Blodget doesn't escape the knife.

The 33-year-old former CNN production assistant made his reputation overnight with a bullish call on Amazon.com. He was quickly hired by Merrill Lynch, which wanted upbeat research to help it win the initial public offerings that bring in lucrative underwriting fees, typically ranging from 3-7 per cent.

Most of the stocks he has pushed have fallen substantially, including Yahoo! on which he maintained a buy recommendation as it dropped from $US250 a share to $US30.

Indeed, Blodget has never issued a sell recommendation in his present job. Neither has Morgan Stanley's Mary Meeker another star analyst who justified a $US15 million salary at the boom's peak by bringing in $US100 million a year in underwriting fees.

Brokers' research departments became the marketing arms of their underwriting businesses. In the past three years, Wall Street raised $US32 billion through internet IPOs, raking in $US2.1 billion in underwriting fees.

Meeker's public appearances became rarer as the tech correction settled in, although her alter ego gave a musical performance at the annual New York Financial Writers Association Ball that left the Morgan Stanley executives present unsure whether to laugh or cringe. The chorus, sung to Britney Spears' Oops, I did it again, went:

Oops, I touted again,

made you buy the stocks we sold.

Oops, you never caught on,

we only liked the ones we underwrote.

Goldman Sachs, one of the most aggressive e-commerce underwriters, has also copped flak for talking up its own book. Until two weeks ago the broker had buy recommendations on the following companies it took to market: TheStreet.com, down 95 per cent from its first-day close, Ashford.com, down 96 per cent; Webvan, down 97 per cent; and eToys, down 99 per cent.

The analyst's response? It didn't seem appropriate to downgrade when the stocks were down 50-60 per cent.

Goldmans has also been known to take positions on both sides of a transaction. A recent example: advising News Corp on the float of Sky Global Networks, and Hughes Electronics during negotiations to sell the satellite broadcast business to Sky Global Networks.

Underwriting conflicts have not escaped regulatory attention. Goldman Sachs and a number of other investment banks, including Credit Suisse First Boston, are being investigated by the US Securities and Exchange Commission in relation to the practice of allocating IPO shares for guaranteed trading commissions.

While the minute-by-minute focus of the US financial media has viewed the tech wreck as the inevitable consequence of a speculative bubble, important lessons were learnt.

Monetary policy was the initial turning point. Fearing the inflationary pressures of a tight job market and large capital gains on shares, Alan Greenspan choked economic growth with a series of interest rate increases.

Low-geared tech stocks initially ignored the move, but got caught in the downdraft when investors finally decided to discount future earnings that nobody was sure would ever appear. Thus the Federal Reserve demonstrated its ability and inclination to move share prices to an economic end.

It became clear that tech stocks were highly susceptible to any economic downturn, as one after another announced they would not meet earnings expectations, including Microsoft, which recently issued its first profit warning in 11 years. For example, Yahoo! generates 80 per cent of its revenue from advertising and ad budgets are one of the easiest areas for a company facing a possible recession to cut. Investors have realised that chip manufacturers, internet retailers and software publishers are just as cyclical as the old economy behemoths they seek to usurp.

TOP 13 DAYS FOR THE US SHAREMARKET IN 2000

January 5: US Justice Department seeks break-up of Microsoft following monopoly ruling

January 10: Media icon Time Warner agrees to be bought by America Online

February 2: Amazon.com reveals it has broken even on book sales

February 16: Crude oil futures rise above US$30 a barrel, raising global inflation fears

March10: Index peaks at 5,048, marking the apex of the tech stock boom

May 6: barron's magazine argues that Cisco Systems 190 price-earnings ratio is absurd

May 30 Nasdaq Composite's biggest ever gain as investors decide tech stocks are oversold

August 3: Predictions Federal Reserve will leave interest rates steady as fresh data shows 108 thousand jobs are lost against expectations of a arise

September 1: Sell off in tech stocks after US Bancorp/Piper Jaffray cut Intel rating from "strong buy" to "buy"

October 25: AT&T announces break-up acknowledging multimedia cable strategy has failed

December 5: Alan Greenspan warns of "excessive softening" signalling rates will fall

December 15: Microsoft announces first profit warning in 11 years

December 20: Index hits lowest point for year, 2332

Document AFNR000020111227dwcs00mcc




Computers
Winners and losers - Information

Angus Grigg, Lachlan Johnston and Emma Connors   
1,845 words
28 December 2000
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
Late
16
English
Copyright 2000. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.   

The only surprise about the tech crash of 2000 was that it did not happen sooner, as investors pushed anything technology-related to irrational highs. There were more losers than winners over the year, as mainly retail investors followed the rally blindly, before the bull market came to a crashing halt on April 14 in the US. The catalyst was a shock decision by the US Department of Justice to break up the software giant Microsoft for breaching anti-trust regulations. The carnage on US markets has devastated the local sector, spurring a host of high-profile collapses, fire sales and emergency mergers. The local technology index was off 40 per cent from its April high, but only down 10 per cent from the start of the year. Angus Grigg, Lachlan Johnston and Emma Connors report.

LibertyOne sinks after a sorry second half

The collapse of LibertyOne in early December capped off a sorry second half for the technology investment company, which was valued at $1.1 billion in May.

Its voluntary administration saw its co-founder, Graham Bristow, realise nothing from his 48 million shares, which were once worth $85 million.

The demise cost the former chairman, Nicholas Whitlam, $1.2 million. He bought into the company in March this year, but the stock was worthless 10 months later.

A chain of mismanagement and ballooning losses brought the company to its knees, after it churned through four chief executives in its two years as a listed company.

The withdrawal of a rescue bid from the Hong Kong investment company iReality finally spelt the end for LibertyOne, after it was deemed insolvent.

One of its main businesses, Zivo Australia, was sold before Christmas for less than $50,000, and the fire sale of assets is likely to continue into the new year.

Melbourne IT lost in its own domain

The destruction of shareholder value by Melbourne IT over the year was impressive, even for the technology sector.

The failure of its former chief executive, Peter Gerrand, to realise that domain name registration was rapidly becoming a commodity business, saw the stock fall 91.3 per cent from its March high of $17.

Gerrand's belief that Melbourne IT's superior technology would shield it from the decaying margins, was short-sighted. He also missed the opportunity to raise fresh cash to expand into other areas when the market was hot.

The stock must now re-invent itself with limited cash reserves in a market still seething from the company's handling of its profit warning in August.

eisa board ends up wishing on Austar

The internet service provider eisa lasted just over seven months as a listed company, before collapsing with debts of between $11 million and $15 million.

The board's decision to bet the company on the $350 million takeover of OzEmail's consumer business was a disaster, after the market refused to fund the deal.

eisa lost its $20 million deposit and never recovered, finally being placed in administration in September.

Ultimately it was Austar that emerged triumphant, returning to the scene to scoop up eisa's assets for $13 million, which was a significant discount to its original $24.4 million takeover bid.

It was later revealed that the owner and chairman of the regional broadcaster WIN Corp, Bruce Gordon, was the mystery Bermuda-based shareholder who, in September, scuttled Austar's attempted takeover by refusing to sell his 3.5 per cent holding.

Greiner clearly not sure what was in store

Nick Greiner's reputation as a champion of the new economy was dented by the fire sale of the online retailer dstore and the continued woes of the internet advertising firm BMC Media.com.

Greiner gave up his seat on the board of Coles Myer to join dstore, but the venture lasted less than a year, after burning through $24.5 million in shareholders' funds.

The company, once valued at $120 million, was sold this month to the discount retailer Harris Scarfe for less than $3 million.

The demise of dstore followed that of other private dot coms, including allmybills, TheSpot and buy.com, after investors refused to continue to fund the loss-making start-ups.

Greiner, who also chairs BMC, saw the stock in the company soar to $1.1 billion in April, but the market correction and a series of bungles has left it worth $40.5 million.

Gates swing shut on richest man

Internationally, the biggest loser was the world's richest man Bill Gates, after the Department of Justice won its anti-trust action against Microsoft, causing its share price to plummet.

It was belted in the great tech wreck and again this month when the company announced it was not going to make forecasts. Gates's personal stake in the company, once worth $US91.5 billion ($163 billion) has slipped below $US36 billion. Possibly even more galling is the fact that his long-term rival, Oracle Corp's chief executive, Larry Ellison, finally has a chunk of shares worth more than Gates' Microsoft pile.

Life's a beach for Sausage founder

Sausage Software's founder, Steve Outtrim, was the big dot com winner of the year, cashing out $60 million worth of stock at the height of the tech frenzy.

Most of this came from the sale of 10 million shares at $5.10 each in mid-February, a great trade when compared with yesterday's close of 68¢.

This would have easily financed the $3 million purchase of his Byron Bay beach house, where he now resides as a part-time seed capitalist.

Outtrim can thank Sausage's former managing director, Wayne Bos, for the loot, after a now-famous deal in January 1999 in which he gave Bos half his 70 per cent stake in Sausage when the stock was trading about 10¢.

Bos and Outtrim still hold 11.8 per cent of Sausage between them, worth $23 million, which suggests that Bos was also a big winner from the tech rally, possibly cashing out as much as the Sausage founder.

LookSmart, but only for some

The dual listing of the internet directory LookSmart on the ASX in February provided a huge windfall for its seed investors, Macquarie Bank and Australian Mezzanine Investments, but it was a disaster for local investors.

Australian Mezzanine turned its $2.5 million investment into $248 million, while Macquarie cashed out $26 million from its holding.

Macquarie still holds 1.5 million shares in LookSmart, worth $8.4 million at the height of the tech bubble, but now valued at just $352,000.

The 92.7 per cent decline in the value of the internet directory has hurt many local institutions that took big positions in LookSmart when its seed investors quit the stock.

Macquarie's $10 million investment in K*Grind was not as successful, however, after the youth portal was placed in receivership following an abortive rescue bid.

Doors open for latest technology blue chips

The year also saw the emergence of Technology One, KAZ Computer Services, Powerlan and Open Telecommunications as technology blue chips.

Open's founder, Wayne Passlow, has enjoyed a five-fold increase in his 63.7 per cent holding to $431.6 million, but it was once worth $1.3 billion.

KAZ's founder, Peter Kazacos, has had a seven-fold increase in his 20.9 per cent stake to $128.3 million and finds himself at the helm of a $600 million company much in favour with the market.

Kerry still packs punch despite play and miss

Kerry Packer missed pulling off the deal of the year, when he tried to trade his internet business ecorp for Optus' broadband cable, but he still managed to ensconce himself as one of the giants of the technology market.

ecorp's share price peaked at $8.39 in February, making Packer's 80 per cent stake worth $4.4 billion, and leaving him the richest on paper he has ever been.

ecorp has since tumbled back to $1.50, but his stake is still worth $804 million, and since it raised $160 million in its float, it has not cost him a cent. Also boosting Packer's wealth has been a prudent investment in the market boomer Open Telecommunications, through Consolidated Press Holdings.

ConsPress took a handsome 200 per cent profit on half of its 12 per cent stake in OpenTel in September, selling to institutions for $78.2 million. The remaining 6 per cent stake is still worth about $40 million.

Packer is also believed to have collected a cool profit on another venture capital investment in the internet search business LookSmart early in the year. While details of his entry and exit price are scant, Packer is believed to have sold most of the stake on the US market in late March and early April, when the tech stock boom was at its height.

The strength of the Packer name in terms of market confidence was also reflected in the $240 million raising the family squeezed out of the market in May, directly after the tech wreck. The raising was done through CPH Investment Company (the old FXF Trust), on the promise that the Packer family would use the money to invest in B2B internet plays. It has only made one investment to date, in a foreign exchange trading business, Zurich Financial services.

ecorp duo ride the tech rocket

Like their boss Kerry Packer, both Daniel Petre and Jeremy Philips of ecorp saw their personal wealth rocket to $146.8 million each in February, before the bottom fell out of the market.

ecorp's share price has since slipped back to a market cap of just under $1 billion, but it is still regarded as Australia's largest dot com business.

ecorp has been gradually spending the $160 million it raised in its June 1999 float, and analysts are supporting Philips's and Petre's contention that the group's flagship business, ninemsn, will break even next year.

Steve Outrim - The big dot com winner of the year after selling $60 million worth of Sausage Software shares near the market's peak and before the company's stock price slump.

Nick Whitlam - Lost $1.2 million punting on LibertyOne stock after the company was placed in administration this month.

Nick Greiner - Gave up his seat on the Coles Myer board to chair e-tailer dstore, only for the venture to go bust 12 months later.

Wayne Passlow - Enjoyed a five fold increase in his 63.7% stake in Open Telecommunications to $431.6 million.

BEST

Vision Systems		235.7%

Orbital Engine		67.4%

Technology One		36.2%



WORST

Prophecy Intl		-75.6%

Data#3			-80.0%

Multimedia.com		-85.2%

Sausage Software		-86.7%

Voicenet (Aust)		-88.9%

Reckon			-89.7%

BMC Media.com		-90.7%

Melbourne IT		-91.3%

LookSmart		-92.7%

Solution 6			-93.1%



Charts show % rise or fall in the year to date. 
 Source: Bloomberg

Document AFNR000020111227dwcs00mc7




 Union Pacific Issues 4th-Quarter  Profit Warning 

 By Daniel Machalaba 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
580 words
28 December 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
A3
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Union Pacific Corp. issued a fourth-quarter earnings warning, citing a sharp downward trend in the economy, and said it would reduce employment levels about 4% in 2001. 

 The move by the nation's largest railroad is further indication of cooling economic activity. Last week, another major railroad company, Norfolk Southern Corp., issued an earnings warning, blaming the slowing of the general economy. 

 "We haven't seen this big a reduction in railroad traffic since the 1990-1991 recession," said James Valentine, an analyst at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, adding, "We shouldn't be surprised by earnings shortfalls or belt-tightening." 

 Union Pacific, Omaha, Neb., said it will cut about 2,000 jobs in the first half of next year. The company currently has about 50,000 employees. About half of the reductions are expected to come through attrition, with the remainder from a combination of an early-retirement program and involuntary layoffs. The job cuts will made both in management and union ranks, the company said. 

 The company said severance costs related to the job cuts will result in a charge of about $70 million, or 26 cents a diluted share, in the fourth quarter. The company said it expects fourth-quarter earnings, excluding the one-time charge, to range between 87 cents and 90 cents a share. That is below a First Call/Thomson Financial consensus of analysts' estimates of 93 cents a share. 

 Union Pacific reported net income of $810 million, or 95 cents a diluted share, on revenue of $11.3 billion in the year-earlier fourth quarter. 

 Union Pacific Chairman and Chief Executive Dick Davidson said, "The level of overall economic activity has slowed so dramatically during the fourth quarter, we must accelerate the pace of cost reductions to match demand for our services." 

 In addition to the downturn in economic activity, Mr. Davidson blamed severe winter storms in the railroad's service area and continued high fuel prices for the earnings outlook. Fuel prices in the fourth quarter were about 70% above the year-earlier period, on average, he said. 

 Fourth-quarter rail freight traffic is expected to rise by 1% over a year earlier, "considerably below our forecast," the company said. Union Pacific spokesman John Bromley said that while transport of coal continues to be strong and grain shipments are "picking up," most other commodities have "dropped substantially." He added that the sharpest declines were in industrial products, including lumber, chemicals and automobiles. 

 Union Pacific has been winning back freight traffic since its much-publicized service problems in 1997 and 1998. Most of the traffic recovery had been made in coal and intermodal [freight traffic hauled by a combination of road and rail]. 

 As recently as October, the company had set traffic records in coal while posting strong traffic gains in most other commodities. 

 "We saw traffic levels start to fall off in November," Mr. Bromley said, adding, "We had anticipated a softening of the economy, but the swiftness of it caught us by surprise." 

 The company didn't specify its capital-spending plans for 2001 but said it expects expenditures to be a "little less" than the approximately $2 billion spent in the current year, Mr. Bromley said. 

 At 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Union Pacific rose $1.44 to $52.63. The earnings warning came after 4 p.m. 

Document j000000020010807dwcs00woi




 RESEARCH ALERT-Magic Software price target  cut  to $4/shr. 

201 words
27 December 2000
13:55
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 27 (Reuters) - UBS Warburg on Wednesday said it cut its 12-month target for Israel-based Magic Software Enterprises Ltd. after the software developer warned of hefty fourth-quarter earnings and revenue shortfalls and announced a management shake-up. 

 UBS Warburg cuts its target for the stock to $4 from $13 and reiterated a hold rating. 

 Magic said its fourth-quarter earnings would be $7.5 million less than the $1.6 million it expected and revenues would fall $4 million below its previous $27 million estimate. 

 "While the company primarily blamed the shortfall on external factors, we continue to believe Magic is being hampered by changes in its business focus from tools to e-commerce applications," UBS Warburg said, adding that the company has repeatedly disappointed investors since its second-quarter profit warning earlier this year. 

 Magic also said would replace its chief executive officer, Jack Dunietz, at the end of the year with its chairman, Dan Goldstein. 

 The company's shares closed at a 52-week low of $2-1/2 on Tuesday on Nasdaq. The stock hit a 52-week high of $33 in February. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcr098bc




 RESEARCH ALERT-Netro  cut  to market performer. 

168 words
27 December 2000
12:25
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 JERUSALEM, Dec 27 (Reuters) - Robertson Stephens said on Wednesday it cut its rating on Israeli technology company Netro to market performer from buy after it issued a profit warning for the December quarter. 

 "Given the lack of visibility into the company's growth and profitability, we are significantly lowering our financial forecasts for fiscal 2001," Robertson Stephens analysts Paul Silverstein and Paul Johnson wrote in a report. 

 Netro said on Tuesday fourth quarter results would disappoint street consensus expectations and projected revenues of $21-$22 million and a loss per share of $0.05. 

 The company, which makes broadband wireless acccess systems for Internet and telecom service providers, also noted that 2001 revenues would be lower than forecast, but said it still expects "significant" sequential quarterly growth. 

 Robertson Stephens widened its 2000 loss per share estimate to $0.24 from $0.18 and lowered its 2001 estimate to a $0.40 a share loss from a $0.31 per share profit. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcr097mw




Business briefs
BUSINESS
Business briefs

Bloomberg News, Reuters, Associated Press, Staff   
301 words
27 December 2000
Houston Chronicle
HOU
3 STAR
2
English
Copyright 2000. Hearst Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

Jeweler Zale issues profit warning

IRVING - Zale Corp. said Tuesday that fiscal second-quarter earnings will miss analyst forecasts because of a drop in same-store sales.

Profit will be $2.42 to $2.50 a share in the quarter ending Jan. 31, according to Gordon's and Bailey Banks & Biddle stores, which own the jewelry chain. Zale was expected to earn $2.77, analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial had estimated. It earned $2.33 a year earlier.

Sales at stores open at least a year are expected to fall 3 to 4 percent in the November-December period, compared with a 16 percent gain a year earlier, Zale said. Higher interest rates and energy prices and a decline in the stock markets have crimped consumer demand. That has hurt holiday sales of diamond earrings, pendants and other gift items, Zale said.

"The greatest weakness was in gift-giving," said Sue Gove, Zale's chief financial officer. "There's a slowdown across the board. Economic and non-economic factors have affected every retailer."

Zale's shares lost 69 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $25.31. The stock has fallen 45 percent in the past year.

The Irving-based chain gets about 40 percent of its annual sales in its fiscal second quarter, Gove said. Zale's sales of wedding and engagement rings remained stable during the November-December period, she said.

Zale has about 2,350 stores under names that include Peoples and Piercing Pagoda. It also sells over the Internet.

So-called same-store sales are a key indicator of a retailer's business because they exclude new and closed locations.

Bloomberg News, Reuters, the Associated Press and Chronicle staff contribute to this report.

Document HOU0000020120818dwcr0288w




 Shares of Network Associates Plunge After 4th-Quarter  Profit Warning 

393 words
27 December 2000
15:43
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -- Shares of Network Associates Inc. lost more than two-thirds of their value Wednesday after the developer of network-security software warned its fourth-quarter results will miss Wall Street expectations by a wide margin and three top executives resigned. 

 At 4 p.m. EST on the Nasdaq Stock Market, Network Associates (NETA) tumbled $7.19, or 61%, to $4.56 on heavy volume of nearly 26 million shares. 

 Network Associates, Santa Clara, Calif., also disclosed after the market closed Tuesday that three top executives are departing. Chairman and Chief Executive Bill Larson, President Peter Watkins and Chief Financial Officer Prabhat Goyal will resign. The company named director Edwin Harper as chairman and will search for replacements for the other posts. 

 Network Associates blamed the expected weak fourth-quarter results on inventory cutbacks by the company's distributors and softening demand for its products. The reduced demand stemmed from "concerns about the state of the economy from the customer base," the company said in a prepared statement. 

 Network Associates said it expects a loss of between $130 million and $140 million, excluding charges, on revenue of $55 million to $65 million for the quarter ending Dec. 31. Before the warning, analysts were looking for fourth-quarter earnings of 31 cents a share, according to a survey by First Call/Thomson Financial. A year earlier, excluding items, the company earned 20 cents a share on revenue of $218.1 million. 

 Besides the operating difficulties, a change in accounting procedures will contribute to the precipitous decline in fourth-quarter revenue, the company said. Network Associates will switch its revenue recognition policy to a "sell-through" model from a "sell-in" policy, which will result in a $120 million shortfall in revenue in the fourth quarter. 

 The accounting change means revenue will be recognized when the end-user receives a product, rather than when a product is sold to a distributor. 

 Some analysts thought Network Associates didn't go far enough in cutting fourth-quarter estimates. Merrill Lynch & Co. analyst Mark Fernandes slashed his revenue forecast to $48 million from $244 million. He now expects a loss of 87 cents a share, reversing his previous earnings estimate of 30 cents a share. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020020330dwcr01ng4


 Business 
 Nightly Business Report 

 Susie Gharib, Jeff Yastine 
4,437 words
26 December 2000
23:30
Nightly Business Report
NBR
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 SUSIE GHARIB, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT ANCHOR: They are signs of the times. Post-Christmas sales are under way, but will they save a tough holiday shopping season for the nation`s retailers? Good evening everyone. I`m Susie Gharib in New York City. 

 JEFF YASTINE, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT ANCHOR: And I`m Jeff Yastine in Miami. Paul Kangas is off tonight. A mixed picture on Wall Street today, as the Dow gains 56 points. But the NASDAQ loses 23. Then, California`s businesses are pulling the plug, facing skyrocketing energy costs. We`ll ask Governor Gray Davis if his state is sinking towards recession. 

 GHARIB: Good evening, everyone, post holiday blues on Wall Street today. Investors lost their Christmas spirit coming back from the long holiday weekend. The Dow edged up only 56 points and the NASDAQ slipped 23. Retailers are hoping that shoppers will be more enthusiastic. The week between Christmas and new years is an important last push for sales. Scott Gurvey canvassed the shopping scene. 

 SCOTT GURVEY, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: Many of the stores we went to in Manhattan today were not too thrilled to have a TV camera around. Perhaps they didn`t want people to see all the gifts being returned. More likely they didn`t want us to show all the sale signs. The sales actually began long before Christmas day. The discounts have only gotten deeper the day after. In spite of the last minute, sale driven surge, this Christmas is clearly a disappointment for retailers. Federated Department Stores (FD) warned that December sales were up only 1 to 2 percent. J.C. Penney (JCP) said it expects to post low to mid-single digit gains, while Wal-Mart (WMT) said holiday sales were up in the mid-single digits. Last year sales gained about 6.5 percent. The most optimistic estimates this year call for growth to be less than half of that. 

 ROBERT BUCHANAN, RETAIL ANALYST, AG EDWARDS: The Fed raised rates, as you know, six times during the 11 months ending with May of this year. And you combine that with rising oil prices and we`re getting a very, very sharp and sustained slowdown in consumer spending, that really goes back to the summer of `99. So I think it`s important to call this for what it is, which is a sustained slowdown as opposed to a mere bump in the road. 

 GURVEY: Even online sales may prove disappointing. While a Goldman Sachs study says online sales volume more than doubled this year, retail analysts say tight margins may mean more revenue did not really produce much more in the profit column. They also warn investors to view the retail sector stocks with caution near term. 

 DANA TELSEY, RETAIL ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: We think that this weakness could spill over into the first quarter, as inventory levels remain high. On the macro front, with lower interest rates coming sometime in the month of January, retail stocks are early cycle, and some of these names that are at or near their bottoms, could become interesting, interesting plays to some of the value players. 

 GURVEY: The final report card on holiday sales will be in on January 4. That`s when most US retailers release their December same store sales results. Scott Gurvey, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, New York 

 YASTINE: Well, not much follow through on Friday`s jump higher, but volume was pretty low coming as it did after a long holiday weekend. The blue chips began the day where they left off on Friday-higher. The Dow Jones Industrial Average etched out a sawtooth pattern in the early going, as that opening bell strength was met with renewed selling. Bonds were lower, and decliners had a narrow edge on advancing issues. By noontime, the Dow was about 20 points in negative territory. Much the same story for the tech stocks as the NASDAQ Index opened sharply higher, and once again, was met with lots of selling. That remained the pattern, as the Index stair-stepped its way lower throughout much of the afternoon. But in late trading, a slow-motion rally of sorts unfolded, as the Dow and all the indices began to creep higher. Energy issues were big movers today, as a cold snap in much of the country pushed natural gas and crude oil prices higher. Traders said there was also some selective bargain hunting going on. The Dow going on to close with a gain of 56.88 points to close at 10,692. The NASDAQ Composite slipping 23 1/2 to close at 2493 1/2. And there`s a look at the volume, falling 802 million shares in a post holiday slumber. Up volume eclipsing down volume by 160 million shares. 

 Transports slipping 10 1/3 points. Year to date that index is down about 4 1/2 percent. 

 Utilities bolting 13 1/3 points higher to close at a record 416. Year to date, that Index is up about 47 percent. 

 And the Closing Tick slightly bearish at -189. Small pockets of strength in the broader market, each of the S&P Indices edges higher. 

 The Bridge CRB Index advancing about 2/3 of a point. 

 The New York Exchange Composite Index picking up 6 1/2. 

 The Value Line rising 1 1/2. 

 The Small Caps, you can see them gaining 3 2/3 points. 

 And the broadly based Wilshire 5000 gaining 72 1/4 points. 

 Well, a quiet day for bonds with most traders in the US and Europe off for the holidays. A pricing error on one electronic trading system triggered a round of sell orders-but much of the loss was made up when the error was discovered. In all a quiet day. 

 Tax-free and corporate issues falling a fraction, and the Treasuries fell across the board. 

 The 5-year note dropping one tick. 

 The 10-year note falling 8/32. 

 And the 30-year bond losing 13/32, the yield at 5.43 percent. 

 Finally, the Lehman Brothers Long Bond Index losing 4 1/3 points. 

 I`ll be back later to show you more on what stocks did today. Susie. 

 GHARIB: Jeff, the California power crisis got the attention of Alan Greenspan today. The chairman of the Federal Reserve met with California Governor Gray Davis in Washington. Coming up in a few moments, I`ll be talking live with the governor. But first Pat Anson takes a look at how some California businesses are shutting down because of enormous bills for power and natural gas. 

 PAT ANSON, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: Composite Structures is an aerospace company in Monrovia, California that has seen more than its share of power problems. Seventeen times since last summer, company President Brad Spahr has been forced to turn off the lights and send his employees home with half pay. 

 BRAD SPAHR, PRESIDENT, COMPOSITE STRUCTURES: We go through to make sure first of all that the people that are working in areas are safely out of the areas and then power down the lights and then eventually the whole plant goes black. And we can generally do it in about 15-20 minutes. We`ve had practice. 

 ANSON: Composite Structures, along with hundreds of other companies in California thought it would save money by signing up for a special utility program. In change for lower rates the company agreed to cut power consumption if electricity becomes scarce. At the time electricity was cheap and plentiful. No one imagined the situation today with energy alerts almost daily. During alerts companies in the interruptible power program have just 30 minutes to shut down. If they don`t they face stiff penalties. Major companies like Boeing (BA) have paid millions of dollars in fines to keep their plants operating, but that`s not an option for small manufacturers like Composite Structures. 

 SPAHR: It`s been very frustrating certainly. 

 ANSON: At Castaic Brick, the problem isn`t electricity, but the soaring cost of natural gas. With the company`s kilns burning large amounts of gas to make bricks, Castaic`s gas bill has risen to $300,000 a month. That`s an enormous cost for a company that sells bricks for about $0.25 a piece. Company officials are debating whether to shut down. 

 ALERO PINTO, VICE PRESIDENT SALES, CASTAIC BRICK: We talk about it but we can`t afford to shut down and at the same time we can`t afford to run the kilns. So it`s very hard. 

 ANSON: A growing number of companies in California face similar problems. 

 JACK KYSER, LA COUNTY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP. We`re hearing from people in the textile industry, apparel, food processing, that the cost of natural gas has gone up so dramatically that many of them are thinking about shutting down operations. 

 ANSON: Despite calls for conservation, energy consumption in California remains high and increasingly costly for the state`s economy. Pat Anson, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, Los Angeles. 

 GHARIB: Joining us live now from Washington to talk more about this power crisis in California is California Governor Gray Davis and thank you so much Governor, for joining us this evening. 

 GOV. GRAY DAVIS (D) CALIFORNIA: You`re welcome. 

 GHARIB: In your meeting today with Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan, did he say that he can help these power companies in California from going bankrupt? DAVIS: Well, this is a meeting where I was seeking advice from both the chairman and the Secretary of the Treasury. They gave me more than two hours of their time. Suffice it to say, they agreed this is one of the more intractable problems they`d seen in the short term. But we will get through this with more conservation and bringing more supply online. Already we have six plants under construction since April of 1999, my first year in office which is more than the last 16 years of governors have produced in California. So we will meet our responsibility and eventually work our way through this problem. 

 GHARIB: But in terms of immediate concern, did Alan Greenspan or Treasury Secretary Summers indicate any willingness to intervene with creditors to, that are involved in this power crisis in California? 

 DAVIS: I didn`t ask them to do that. This was more of a situation where I explained the problem and sought their advice and guidance. There are no magic bullets. We just have to work our way through this problem but California`s economy is very resilient. And I`m going to find ways to incentive even more conservation, accelerate the development of new supply and eventually when supply and demand come back into something approaching balance, there will be genuine price competition but right now this deregulation experiment has not worked in California and we are going to have to move on several fronts to fix it. 

 GHARIB: Are you saying that you are going to advocate reregulation? 

 DAVIS: No, but I`m saying when your leg is broken and you go to the doctor, the doctor doesn`t say let nature take its course. The doctor puts a cast on the leg until the leg is mended. Then he takes the cast off. So we`ll have to take a number of measures to make sure we can get through this. My constituents are the people and businesses of California and I want to make sure they prosper and contribute to the national economic growth rather than are the victims of a failed experiment. But I think we can eventually work our way through this so down the road deregulation can work. 

 GHARIB: But for right now, is California on the verge of a recession? 

 DAVIS: No, our economy will outperform the nation. That is not to say that we enjoy high natural gas prices. They`ve increased bills by 30 or 40 percent. We don`t like high gasoline. We don`t like high electrical bills. But we will still outperform the nation in 2001. 

 GHARIB: But surely, having an unstable power supply, also these high costs, has got to be disruptive to businesses in California, especially all those high technology companies in Silicon Valley and that could have a ripple effect on the rest of the country. 

 DAVIS: There`s no question about it. This is a serious problem. But we will manage it if everyone does their part. I need some help from the generators. They can`t be charging eight or 900 percent the cost of electricity. We need more conservation than we have had before and we need to accelerate additional supply. Most of the west is an importer of power at least some part of the year. We need to have a better supply demand balance so that generators don`t have the leverage they have over us today. 

 GHARIB: Governor, besides these conservation measures that you would like to push through, what other action are you going to take to resolve this crisis? 

 DAVIS: Well, the PUC I believe will take some action in January. Right now they are auditing the two major utilities to see if a price increase is warranted, a rate increase that is and if so to what extent. I will have a number of proposals to make on January 8th when I make my state of the state address but the two overarching issues are more conservation, more supply. 

 GHARIB: Speaking of the California public utilities commission, they are holding emergency meetings tomorrow and the day after. There`s talk of them seeking a 10 percent increase in customer rates. Is that going to be enough that the people of California will get the electricity that they need? 

 DAVIS: Well, that`s a judgment they will make. They will make that judgment based largely on- 

 GHARIB: But what do you think? 

 DAVIS: Well, it doesn`t matter what I think. The PUC is the legal body that will make a determination as to what if any rate increase is appropriate and their judgment will be based on audits that started today of the two major utilities. I have said that everybody has to be part of the solution, but on the other hand, I`m not going to let these generators making eight or 900 percent, frequently gaming and marketeering the system, unduly drive California to its knees. We contribute to the national economic growth and everyone has to play their part. 

 GHARIB: But sir, are you fearful that if the California public utility commission comes up with this 10 percent increase, that that is not going to be enough to keep these utilities from going bankrupt, that it`s going to require increases of maybe 10, 25 or 30 percent. Are you fearful of that? 

 DAVIS: Well, that is a judgment they have to make. But let me say this. There are all kinds of dire scenarios that people are painting. And there`s no question this is a difficult challenge but we will get through it. We will get through it and still have a strong economy that contributes to national growth. Do we like the fact that the price of electricity is going up at a remarkable rate when everyone`s promised it would go down? No. I inherited this problem. But we will manage it and we will manage it successfully. 

 GHARIB: When do you think this whole crisis going to be resolved? Obviously businesses and California residents are getting frustrated by the length this is taking to resolve it. When will it be resolved? 

 DAVIS: The problem is that the generators can charge anything they want today and the only people who have control of them are the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission which has refused to take any control over them. So the only way we can combat the leverage they have on market is to reduce supply to make sure that we do some of the things we could do at times other than peak times and increase demand. Those are the two principle methods. 

 GHARIB: But real quickly, in terms of, I mean at what point are you willing to take some proactive action whether it is to take over the power companies or the power generators. You have the authority to do that? 

 DAVIS:  Well, I can`t make electricity. I can -- there are certain emergency powers I have. If I have to use them, I will, but the real threat to the generators that should cause them to think twice if deregulation fails in California, deregulation is over in America. So they have a vested interest in seeing that deregulation down the road can work without sacrificing the California economy that is now contributing disproportionately to the nation`s growth. 

 GHARIB:  We`ll have to leave it there. Thank you so much Governor for talking to us and good luck to you and everybody in California. 

 DAVIS: Thank you. 

 GHARIB:  We`ve been speaking with California Governor Gray Davis live from Washington. 

 YASTINE: The blue chips managing to squeeze out a slight gain on the continued Santa Claus rally with the Dow advancing 56.88 points. Advancers with a mere (ph) 9 to 6 lead over declining issues, 276 new yearly lows; 106 new, rather, new highs rather, 106 new yearly lows. 

 Lucent Technologies (LU) slipping $0.13. 

 AT& T (T) falling $0.19, still reeling after the aftershocks of last week`s profit warning. 

 Nortel Networks (NT) dropping $1.25. 

 Compaq Computer (CPQ) slipping $0.39.  Analysts think a PC price war is imminent because of few holiday sales and bloated inventories in that sector. 

 And America Online (AOL) rising $0.22. 

 Motorola (MOT)  moving up $1.25. 

 EMC (EMC)  ended off $2.94. 

 General Electric (GE) gaining $0.44. 

 Pfizer (PFE) rising $0.31. 

 And Citigroup (C) gaining $0.88. 

 Among the widely helds, oil and natural gas producers taking center stage thanks to the latest cold spell and growing optimism OPEC may cut oil production next month. Crude prices rising $0.46 a barrel today. 

 And Apache (APA) shares climbed with it to a new 52-week high. 

 Caterpillar (CAT) edged up $1.13.  The heavy equipment maker is among the Dow standouts in the fourth quarter.  It`s up about 50 percent so far. 

 IBM (IBM) falling more than $4.  The Dow big loser of the day. 

 Pharmacia (PHA) rising $1.19 after the FDA approved the company`s Detrol (ph) bladder control treatment. 

 Philip Morris (MO) advancing more than $1.  It`s also up more than 50 percent in the fourth quarter and has more than doubled in the past 10 months. 

 Wal-Mart (WMT) falling $1.88. The company lowered its forecast of same store sales growth from 3 to 5 percent to 1 to 2 percent. 

 Demand is heating up for shares in Barrett Resources (BRR). The stock rising more than 8, participating in the sharp rally in the oil and gas sector today.  Here`s another one. 

 Louis Dreyfus Natural Gas Corp. (LD) jumping nearly 6.  Natural gas prices briefly rising to contract highs today. 

 And here`s another one, actually an energy marketing company, rather. Williams Companies (WMB) charging $4.50 higher after forecasting fourth quarter earnings will easily top estimates of 17 cents a share. 

 Visx (EYE) ending off more than 3.  The company says the slowing economy is prompting it to increase reserves by $18 million. It also issued a fourth quarter profit warning.. 

 AK Steel Holding (AKS) falling $0.88. A sharp drop in steel spot prices will drag fourth quarter results lower. 

 And Zale (ZLC) falling $0.69.  The jewelry store chain said holiday same store sales will fall 4 percent.  It issued a profit warning for its year end quarter. 

 Here`s on the NASDAQ, slipping 23 1/2 points and 2493. Volume falling below the average for the year, 1 1/2 billion shares, 617 more issues down than up. 

 And here`s the dollar volume leaders here.  Cisco Systems (CSCO) falling $0.75. 

 JDS Uniphase (JDSU) rising $0.94, that`s despite DB Alex Brown downgrading the stock from "strong buy" to "buy." 

 Juniper Networks (JNPR) falling more than 6. 

 Microsoft (MSFT) edged up $0.44. 

 And Sun Micro (SUNW) falling $1.50. 

 CIENA (CIEN) finished down $2.81. 

 SDL Inc. (SDLI) gaining 3 1/4. 

 And Intel (INTC) slipped a fraction today. 

 Broadcom (BRCM) dropped $1.69. 

 And WorldCom (WCOM) ended up $0.13. 

 Blue Martini Software (BLUE) surging 3 1/2. The company with a very positive mention in the latest issue of "Barrons" over the weekend. 

 Yahoo! (YHOO) ending up $1.63.  The company says order volume in the U.S. holiday season nearly doubled from a year ago. 

 On the downside, Netro Corp. (NTRO) falling $1.70.  Netro makes equipment for the wireless broadband networks.  The company says a shift in spending and its largest customer, Lucent, means it will miss its earnings estimates for the quarter. 

 And here`s a look at the American Exchange.  The Composite Index gushing 13.56 points higher.  That`s thanks to its oil components. 

 And among the movers, PLM International (PLM) gaining $1.06 on news that Milpee (ph) Acquisition Corp. will acquire the company for about $3.50 a share.  PLM is a management service company. 

 And here`s another merger to tell you about.  Pennaco Energy (PN) surging $5.  It`s a unit of USX Marathon Group has agreed to acquire that company for $0.5 billion or $19 a share in cash. 

 And here`s a look at the Index shares. They all closed fractionally higher. 

 That`s the Wall Street Wrap Up, Susie. 

 GHARIB:  Jeff, the stock of Alberto Culver surged more than 5 percent today to a new 52-week high.  Investors are taking a shine to this beauty products company as it consistently delivers record sales and profits, its ninth year in a row now. And as Diane Eastabrook reports, some analysts say that Alberto Culver is a good defensive stock in an uncertain market. 

 DIANE EASTABROOK, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: Alberto Culver has been rolling out its trademark Alberto VO5 products for nearly half a century, and this family-run firm says it is positioning itself to be around another 50 years. 

 HOWARD BERNICK, PRES & CEO, ALBERTO-CULVER:  We`re not an old economy company, and we`re not a new economy company. We`re a real economy company with real sales and real profits and real cash flow. 

 EASTABROOK: Since Bernick`s father-in-law bought the company in the mid-1950`s, Alberto Culver has doubled its sales and profits every five to seven years. Bernick predicts that trend will continue. Sales from its core brands are soaring. The company is introducing new line extensions, another Tresemme (ph) shampoo hits store shelves in a few months, and Alberto Culver is branching out further into the billion dollar ethnic hair-care market with last summer`s acquisition of Pro-line. 

 The company also plans to nearly double the number of its lucrative Sally (ph) beauty stores, which sell cosmetics and beauty supplies. It also wants to expand its beauty systems group -- stores that sell directly to beauty professionals. 

 BERNICK: The basic Sally business has very good profits margins. We earn approximately 10 percent pre-tax on every dollar of sales. And this business is a low capital business and our return on assets is excellent as well, and we see the beauty systems group having the same profits margin potential. 

 EASTABROOK:  Although a strong dollar reduced sales abroad and shaved earnings per share by $0.03 during the last fiscal year, Alberto Culver still managed to increase its earnings about 14 percent. The company`s stock is near its 52-week high. Analysts say, it has been a safe haven for many investors skittish about other volatile stocks. 

 SALLY WALLICK, ANALYST, LEGG MASON WOOD WALKER: These are the sorts of products consumers buy year-in and year-out, whatever the economy may be doing and the VO5 line in particular, since it`s value priced could even attract new customers if the economy slows and consumers are more budget conscious. 

 EASTABROOK:  While currency fluctuations will continue to be a risk for the company, many analysts believe Alberto Culver will maintain its strong earnings momentum and will continue to be a good defensive stock for many portfolios. Diane Eastabrook "NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT," Melrose Park, Illinois. 

 YASTINE:  Tomorrow, we look at what could be ahead for the stock markets in 2001. 

 GHARIB:  A tragic story of workplace violence today. A software tester for a Massachusetts Internet consulting firm is in custody.  He`s suspected of killing seven of his co-workers. Police say that Michael McDermott, 42 years old, went to Edgewater Technology in Wakefield this morning, carrying an assault rifle, a shotgun, and a semi-automatic handgun. Hours later he opened fire. McDermott worked for Edgewater since March. Police had no comment on a possible motive. 

 YASTINE:  Levi Strauss is getting some financial breathing room. The privately held denim jeans maker, has gotten commitments for $1.5 billion in bank loans, a less expensive option than the junk bonds it planned to issue. Levi Strauss needs the cash to stay afloat; sales have been shrinking as smaller labels cut into its market share. The firm has sold jeans in the US for almost 150 years. 

 GHARIB: Rrecapping today`s market action, Wall Street came back from the holiday with mixed feelings.   The Dow gained 56 points, but the NASDAQ lost 23. And please be sure to join us at our world wide web site, nbr.com. 

 YASTINE:  And that`s NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT for Tuesday, December 26. I`m Jeff Yastine. Good night everyone. Good night to you, Susie. 

 GHARIB:  Good night, Jeff, I`m Susie Gharib.  We`ll see all of you again tomorrow night. 

 END 

 TO PURCHASE A VIDEOTAPE OF THIS PIECE, PLEASE CALL  888-266-3601 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc.  Formatting and transcription copyright 2000 eMediaMillWorks, Inc.  (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No quotes from the materials contained herein may be used in any media without attribution to Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. This transcript may not be copied or resold in any media. 

Document nbr0000020010808dwcq00076




 Financial Post 
 Requiem for the halcyon ad days: Next 12 months in media expected to be subdued 

 Sinclair Stewart 
Financial Post
1,595 words
26 December 2000
National Post
FINP
National
D01 / Front
English
 (c) National Post 2000. All Rights Reserved. 

 If April is the cruelest month, December must be a close second -- particularly if you happened to be among the throng of media mavens who descended on midtown Manhattan a few weeks ago. 

 Broadcast executives, advertisers, and most of Madison Avenue huddled in New York for a pair of conferences -- one sponsored by UBS Warburg, the other by Credit Suisse Boston -- to discuss the next 12 months in media. The mood was hardly celebratory. In fact, it was fairly subdued, fitting, for an event that could have passed as a requiem for the halcyon days of dot-com advertising. 

 Virtually every expert predicted that ad spending would slide in 2001, following a record year in which media companies feasted on the largesse of Internet startups, a federal election, the Olympics and the residual effects of millennial madness. 

 Robert Coen, a forecaster at Universal McCann, predicted U.S. ad spending would increase by just 5.8% in 2001, compared with 9.8% for the previous year. Jack Myers, chief economist and chief executive of The Myers Report Inc., was even less optimistic, forecasting growth of just 4.9%, well below the 9% growth he estimated for 2000. 

 Although the numbers seemed to suggest a "soft landing" rather than the onset of a recession, a number of U.S. media companies quickly stepped forth to warn Wall Street of the dwindling ad market. Robert Bennett, chief executive of Liberty Media Corp., the cable division of AT&T Corp., told conference attendees his company's outlook was "bearish," adding that "you don't need to be a rocket scientist to see the signs." Dow Jones & Co., publisher of The Wall Street Journal, reduced its profit estimates because of lower ad lineage at its flagship newspaper. And last week, Time Warner Inc., which is in the midst of completing its merger with America Online Inc., issued a profit warning, explaining that fourth-quarter earnings would be lower than expected, in part because of weakening sales at its cable-TV networks. 

 Advertising may be the lubricant for the free market system, but the wheels were starting to squeak, and investors responded by hammering the majority of U.S. media stocks. 

 Given Canada's reliance on the U.S. economy, one would have expected a frisson of panic to be rippling through domestic media companies by now. But while U.S. media giants grapple with languishing share prices and declining ad revenue, their Canadian counterparts are models of calm and composure. And the reason is more than a little ironic. 

 The explosion of dot-com startups that fuelled the U.S. advertising boom has never really caught on in Canada, much to the chagrin of everyone from ad professionals to media moguls. But while Canadian executives may have bemoaned the relatively sorry state of our high-tech industry a scant year ago, they are now lauding it as a shield that protects them from the U.S. fallout. If you don't have a bubble in the first place, there isn't anything to burst. 

 "In Canada, I think the expectations are not that high," said Bob Bek, an analyst with CIBC World Markets who is predicting an ad spending growth rate of about 2% for Canada in 2001. "We just haven't had the boom or bust." 

 John Cassaday, chief executive of Corus Entertainment Inc., is also optimistic about the year ahead, and believes Canadian media concerns will continue to enjoy moderate, if stable, growth over the next 12 months. He estimates radio spending will continue to grow in line with Canada's gross domestic product, at a clip of about 4%. 

 Mr. Cassaday recently experienced the U.S. frustration firsthand, when he met with one of Corus' American radio broadcast partners. Radio, which enjoyed close to 15% gains in ad spending in the United States last year, was beginning to be hit by the dot-com slowdown, and broadcasters were fretting over the possibility that that figure could ebb to the 10% level in 2001. "They were all quite concerned about the U.S. ad market," recalled Mr. Cassaday, who presides over a stable of radio and specialty television properties. "We'd kill for 10 to 12%." 

 Gerry Noble, president and chief executive of Global Communications Ltd., the umbrella company that owns the television properties of CanWest Global Communications Corp., agreed. "Thankfully, we don't suffer the same vicissitudes that the U.S. does. Here, I would characterize this market as slow but steady growth," said Mr. Noble, who predicted total ad spending in Canada would hover between 2% and 3%, with the majority of the growth occurring in the second and third quarters. 

 U.S.-based prognosticators such as Mr. Myers also see Canada emerging unscathed from the dot-com implosion south of the border, although they see Canadian advertisers slowly tightening their grip on expenditures. 

 "While [the Canadian economy] has been strong, I think it's been more of a managed balanced growth. So I don't think the decline in Canada, which we're now seeing in advertising and media [in the United States] and will continue to experience in the next six to nine months, will be as steep," he said, pegging Canada's ad spending growth for 2001 at roughly 5.5% -- slightly more than the 4.9% he forecasted for the United States. 

 But there are some dissenting voices. David Cairns, general manager of Carat Canada, a Toronto-based media buyer, was far less generous in his 12-month appraisal. According to the Television Bureau of Canada, an organization that tracks net advertising volume, Canadian ad spending totalled nearly $2.4-billion in 1999 (the most recent figures available), an increase of just under 3% from 1998. Although Mr. Cairns cautioned against the reliability of spending forecasts, he said that Canada's ad spending likely grew by about 4% in 2000 and estimated that 2001 will see that number shrink to about 1.5%. 

 Aside from the high-tech sector's malaise, Mr. Cairns pointed to the sinking fortunes of old-economy stalwarts such as the auto industry as factors that could stunt the ad industry's growth next year. 

 "You're going to see the more established industries being under real pressure to cut costs to maintain any kind of profitability, and those costs are going to come at the expense of advertising," he argued. "I think you're going to see shrinking budgets. You're going to see advertising agencies and the media in general kind of scrambling to maintain any kind of revenue that they had last year." 

 Mr. Cairns said the magazine industry, in particular, which enjoyed one of its most prosperous years in 2000, could be the hardest hit among Canadian media, as heavy advertisers such as packaged goods manufacturers begin to exercise more fiscal restraint. 

 Other industry experts, however, believe the downturn in new media will be offset by spending gains in other categories, such as home decoration, travel and the eventual emergence of pharmaceutical advertising, which is still severely restricted in Canada. Sunni Boot, president of Optimedia Canada Inc., the Toronto-based media buying arm of Publicis Canada, said even the stalling auto industry shouldn't damage the domestic ad business, since carmakers and dealers will be forced to spend heavily on retail clearance advertising in order to clear their lots. 

 If anything, Ms. Boot said the growth will occur more nationally this year than it has in the past -- a pattern more in line with the U.S. model -- partly because of the recent spate of media consolidation and in part because cable tends to pick up a greater share of advertising in a depressed economy. 

 "I feel that broadcast will be flat or marginally down, but the winner in it will be cable as opposed to conventional [television], because cable still represents a less expensive means to reach the target group," said Ms. Boot, whose company is forecasting a 2.5% to 3% growth in national ad expenditures. "I don't see major profit decline [and] I think if there's an abundance of inventory, newspaper is the medium of choice." 

 Some media buyers figure that rising inventory will lead to greater fragmentation, which could in turn lead to cheaper ad rates. Fragmentation has already been occurring for some time now, as the onslaught of specialty television stations continues to pilfer viewers -- and all-important ad dollars -- from conventional and cable stations. This promises to be exacerbated next fall when a raft of digital channels begin airing. So far, media observers remain split on what impact they will have, with some saying that they will dilute the market, and others arguing that they will provide non-advertisers with a niche forum in which to begin spending. 

 Hugh Dow, president of M2 Universal, the media buying division of Toronto ad agency MacLaren McCann, doesn't see the U.S. situation as a cautionary tale. "It's a mug's game, in my opinion," he said of the prediction business. "Virtually everything these days on the media side is negotiable, depending on demand and supply, so it is very, very difficult to provide any general assessment of what kind of price increases are going to stick." 

sstewart@nationalpost.com

 Black & White Photo: Kevin Frayer, The Canadian Press / John Cassaday, Corus Entertainment president and chief executive, is optimistic about the year ahead. 

Document finp000020010806dwcq011bi




 Early but Right: Fred Hickey predicted the tech wreck but sees only a few buys now --- By Andrew Bary 

2,007 words
25 December 2000
Barron's
B
17
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 The technology rout this year may have singed millions of investors, but it has provided belated vindication to Fred Hickey, editor of the High-Tech Strategist, who has been warning subscribers for the past few years about the sector's speculative bubble. 

 Reached last week at his office in Nashua, New Hampshire, the 44-year-old Hickey wasn't about to declare victory. "You never know how long manias will go, and this one lasted far longer than I imagined," Hickey says. "It's hard to feel vindicated when all you've done is wipe out the excesses of the past year." 

 The Nasdaq, at 2517, is back where it was in the summer of 1999, but it still is considerably above its October 1998 low of 1419. Hickey points out that the Nasdaq 100, the top 100 stocks in the index, still trades for over 100 times trailing earnings. "That's not a screaming buy." 

 Hickey has been publishing the HighTech Strategist, a monthly newsletter costing $95 a year, since 1987. Unlike other tech newsletter writers, Hickey isn't involved in potentially conflict-creating money management or conference sponsorship. He generally has recommended that clients avoid shorting overvalued stocks-a strategy that would have wiped them out during the tech moonshot-and instead buy long-term put options such as LEAPs, as he has done. 

 Despite the 50%-plus drop in the Nasdaq from its high, a pungent Hickey remains outright bearish on marquee stocks like Intel, Oracle, Nokia, Veritas Software and IBM. He's cautious on Microsoft, Dell Computer, Apple Computer and Hewlett-Packard. Hickey does like Motorola, and thinks many beatendown tech stocks could benefit from a January bounce. Candidates include Adaptec, Novell, Parametric Technology, Compuware and BMC Software. 

 In his past several newsletters, Hickey has taken aim at the wireless business, the personal computer sector and Intel. In his November newsletter, he presciently warned of a "coming fourth-quarter PC disaster" when leading makers like Gateway were still talking optimistically. After the company's fans welcomed its 31% rise in third-quarter profits as a sign of robust health, Hickey argued that Gateway's profit gain masked apparently flat PC revenues and a risky financing business. Gateway subsequently has fallen 65%, to 17, in the wake of its profit warning earlier this month. 

 His December newsletter, titled "Message to Intel: 'Fess Up," caused a stir when he estimated that Intel's gains on its portfolio of technology stocks, which provided an enormous lift this year to its profits, were virtually exhausted. This raised doubts about the company's ability to hit Street profit targets for 2001, which assumed still-sizable gains. Within days of the newsletter's release on December 4, Intel said its fourth-quarter results would be weaker than expected partly because of lower-than-anticipated investment gains. 

 Hickey's fans laud him as one of the few tech analysts who didn't get sucked into the mania of the past two years. "He was wrong for a long time with respect to stock prices, but not to the fundamentals," says Jim Tisch, the chief executive of Loews. "It's rare to find someone like him these days: an analyst doing his job." Tisch credits Hickey for talking to suppliers and customers of major tech companies to see whether the generally sunny outlooks of corporate managements match reality. 

 Hickey's critics deride him as a permabear who has missed the still-substantial run-up in tech stocks since 1997. "He's probably prevented more people from making money in tech during the past few years than anyone," says one, adding the Nasdaq may have to fall another 40% to fully vindicate him. Back in September 1998, when the Nasdaq stood at 1600 and was on the brink of a takeoff, a bearish Hickey told Barron's that "we've only begun to crack investors' confidence" in the top tech stocks. 

 Hickey argues that the perma-bear label is wrong. He was a tech bull in 1989-91 and continued to see opportunities as late as 1998. He admits he has been resolutely negative for the past two years. "Everyone thinks that just because prices have been cut in half there must be good values. But they're not." 

 One of his big concerns is the PC sector. "People have to come to grips with the understanding that the market is saturated," he says. For the first time in 20 years, PC sales are falling at a double-digit rate, reflecting weak corporate demand following Y2K-related buying in 1999 and a well-penetrated consumer sector. His view is that PC sales will become more cyclical, like automobiles. 

 Some investors believe Dell is attractive now that its stock has fallen to 17 from an early-year peak of 60 and trades for less than 20 times projected 2001 profits. Hickey argues that before Dell's huge run-up started in 1996, it never commanded a multiple of 20. Hickey's critics say he's too inflexible on tech valuations and that his kind of market-as in 1990, when top stocks like Intel, EMC and Sun Microsystems fetched 10 times earningsis unlikely to occur again. 

 Hickey is more upbeat on Dell than Gateway, which is more exposed to the weak consumer sector and faces potential problems from its financing activities. Dell, he says, could have success in non-PC initiatives like storage, where the company is going up against industry leader EMC, which Michael Dell reportedly has called "Excess Margin Corp." for its 50%-plus gross margins. 

 Apple, Hickey says, "offers a margin of safety" because its current stock price of 14 isn't much above its book value of $12 and cash per share of over $10. "The problem with Apple is that it's burning cash now," Hickey says. Apple is expected to lose 25-50 cents in its current fiscal year. "Apple offers the most value in the sector, even though it's in the worst shape." 

 Intel isn't going to escape the PC sector's troubles, Hickey argues. Fans of the stock, which has fallen to 34 from a September 1 high of 75, say it's attractive at 20 times projected 2000 profits of $1.65 a share. Yet he points out that when investment gains are stripped out, profits are closer to $1.30. His view: Intel will be hard-pressed to earn $1.30 from operations in 2001. 

 "PC vendors like Dell and Gateway are seeing their gross margins fall while Intel is sitting there with 60% gross margins. Do you think they're going to allow that to continue?" Advanced Micro Devices' high-end Athlon chip finally makes it a more formidable rival to Intel, which PC makers are apt to exploit in 2001. But AMD -- which has dropped to 14 from a summer peak of 48 and trades for just six times projected 2000 profits of $2.45 a share -- also could be vulnerable if Intel responds with a price war that could send AMD back into the red, where it operated from 1995 through 1998. 

 Hickey is more upbeat on Microsoft. Virtually all of the 100 million-plus PCs sold next year will run on some form of Windows. "Microsoft doesn't face the same pressure to lower prices that Intel does." Microsoft's operating system and office products generate huge cash flow each quarter. 

 Microsoft, at 44, now trades for 24 times projected profits of $1.80 in its June 2001 fiscal year, a slight premium to the market for a clearly better-than-average company. Microsoft's effective P/E is higher, however, because it folds investment gains (estimated at about 20 cents a share this year) into operating results. The company does boast $25 billion in cash and $20 billion in investments worth nearly $9 a share on its balance sheet. 

 Motorola, Hickey argues, is one of the best values in technology, having fallen from a summer peak of 56, to 19, where it stood in 1996. "Here's a company with a $40 billion market value that has $40 billion in sales," Hickey says, noting that few major tech outfits trade for one times sales. In contrast, Veritas Software, one of technology's few remaining highflyers, has a $35 billion market value but only $1 billion in sales. Motorola trades for around 20 times estimated 2001 profits, which arguably are depressed. 

 "The areas where Motorola is strongnetworking and wireless-are better places to be than PCs," he says. Motorola is the No. 2 cell-phone maker behind Nokia, and it also makes equipment for the wireless and cable TV industries as well as semiconductors. "If you buy stocks cheaply enough, catalysts can occur that you don't anticipate," he observes. Some Motorola fans were encouraged that it didn't drop after its recent announcement of weak fourth-quarter profits. 

 Hickey contrasts Motorola with Nokia, which sports a $200 billion market value on $30 billion in sales. While it is the dominant handset maker, Nokia is vulnerable to an economic slowdown because it gets over 70% of its revenues from cell phones, which Hickey calls the "ultimate consumer gadget." Even with its pullback from 65 to 40, Nokia trades for over 50 times projected 2000 profits. 

 Neither does he buy the hype about Oracle, which at 29 has held up better than many of its tech brethren this year and still trades for over 50 times estimated May 2001 fiscal year earnings. 

 Oracle recently reported an impressive 62% rise in net income for its November quarter, to 11 cents a share, but a much more modest 15% gain in revenues, reflecting slow growth in its services business. 

 "If Oracle can grow only 12%-15% in a boom period, what will happen in an economic downturn?" Hickey asks. Oracle is exposed to the tough legacy mainframe software market, faces competition from Microsoft, and is squaring off against strong rivals in the hot applications-software market, in which companies like Siebel Systems arguably make better products. Hickey also isn't encouraged that the brilliant but mercurial Oracle chief executive, Larry Ellison, has lost several top managers in recent months. "Larry now has 100% control," Hickey says, noting that a decade ago such a prospect wouldn't have cheered investors. 

 Hickey remains concerned about IBM because its revenue base is so large at $80 billion that it can't help but be affected in an industry downturn. He's critical of IBM chief executive Louis Gerstner for using a host of financial maneuvers, including stock buybacks, cost cutting, pension gains and asset sales, to inflate profits per share when revenue growth has been punk. Given the adverse reaction to IBM's latest quarterly profit report, when it reported weak revenue growth of just 3%, Wall Street finally seems to be listening. IBM, at 85, trades for around 20 times projected 2000 profits. 

 Hickey wants to be bullish on HewlettPackard, whose shares at 30 -- down from a summer peak of 68, and about where they stood three years ago -- trade at just 15 times estimated October 2001 earnings. But he's afraid that Carly Fiorina, HP's CEO since 1999, is from the Gerstner school and will put quick fixes and financial engineering ahead of strategic initiatives. 

 "Hewlett-Packard used to be run by great engineers who were long-term-oriented," he says, referring to Fiorina's predecessor, Lou Platt. But with HP's stock failing to keep pace with IBM's, Wall Street's patience wore thin and the company turned to the more charismatic Fiorina, whose pedigree at Lucent Technologies was considered a big asset when she got the top job. "Hopefully, not too much damage has been done and not too many engineers have left," he says. 

 (See related letter: "Barron's Mailbag: Imperfect Prophet" -- Barron's Jan. 8, 2001) 

Document b000000020010803dwcp000n3




 US slowdown seen souring Indian IT dreams. 

810 words
24 December 2000
The Times of India
TOI
English
 (c) 2000 The Times of India Group

 NEW DELHI - Signs of a slowdown in the US economy and forewarning of slump in computer sales and shortfall in revenues by the US information technology (IT) giants is likely to bring its own set of woes for the Indian IT sector. And this time, even the domestic software services firms - an importantsegment of the IT industry - which thus far has felt largely insulated fromthe global meltdown in IT stocks, is likely to find few avenues of escape, say analysts. "The slowdown in the US economy is already causing concerns to variousindustrial sectors, and exports of a variety of products have got a jolt," says D H Pai Panandiker, a noted business economist and adviser to the RPG group. According to him, most companies there - even the blue chip, Fortune 500 firms - would try to cut costs and investments to keep their bottom lines healthy. 

  In the process, Indian software companies - which cater to 185 of the Fortune 500 companies - are likely to face a slack demand over the next few months. In fact, alarm bells are already beginning to sound from the three major segments of the IT sector in the US - software, microprocessors and hardware. After hardware major Compaq and chip-maker Intel, application software giants Apple and Microsoft are the latest firms US suffering a downtrend, forcing them to issue a warning on a possible fall in profits with little signs of respite in the next quarter beginning January. Microsoft, in fact, blamed the shortfall to the sluggish desktop applications market in the US consumer and corporate sectors, as well weak revenue from its portal subscriptions and online advertising sales. "All this could result in lower imports by the US I foresee a slowdown for our software firms from the first quarter of the next calendar year," Panandiker told IANS. Over the last few years, the IT industry has been growing at a healthy pace, notwithstanding the general slowdown in the Indian industry. According to the National Association of Software and Service Companies(Nasscom), software exports crossed $4.0 billion in 1999-2000, are estimated at $6.3 billion in the current fiscal year. This will further grow roughly 50 percent every year to reach $50 billion in 2007-08, it said. This growth rate, analysts say, will be difficult to maintain, since software exports account for a third of the IT revenues in the country. Sujata Srikumar, director (infrastructure) of credit rating firm CRISIL, agrees with Panandikar on the possible slowdown in the software sector, but she feels the impact of that on bottomline will not be immediate. "At present, the order books of most software exporters are full, so the profit margins will not take a beating in the short term," Srikumar said. She, however, added that the impact would be more immediate on the scrips of software majors. "The profit warning issued by the blue-chip companies has adversely affectedsentiment in the tech-heavy Nasdaq. Since Nasdaq has strong co-relation withthe domestic bourses, the market capitalization of the domestic IT companies will also fall over the next couple of months," Srikumar said. Tracking the recent downtrend in Nasdaq, the domestic software major SatyamComputer has lost nearly 37 percent from its October levels on the Bombay Stock Exchange and the Bangalore-based Infosys Technologies' share plunged by 23.5 percent in the same period to touch its yearly low at Rs. 5,796.40 on Friday. Foreign funds sold technology shares, in the last couple of weeks, on fearsthat a slowdown in global technology spending could hit the long-term growth of Indian software, although they were expected to maintain strong growth in the third quarter ending December 31, 2000. Sanjeev Bhalerao, partner of NetAcross, a Delhi-based e-services company, said that the companies in India would have to rework their strategies and become more cost competitive to withstand the prevailing slowdown in demand in the global market. "The effect of the slowdown will depend on the areas where the domestic companies are functioning. The services sector will largely remain unaffected," he said adding that the technology companies would have to adopt means to improve productivity and achieve cost efficiency. Anil Bakht, chairman and managing director of Eastern Software Systems, an application service provider (ASP), said that as the US economy slows down the US companies would be looking for more cost effective solutions for their IT needs, but little can be done to reduce the ongoing expenses on software and maintenance. He says - "Luckily for Indian companies this is not an investment decision ... this has more to do with reducing costs ... before the crash there was an unfulfilled demand of programmers in the range of 800,000. This may go down a bit but will certainly not drop down to zero." (India Abroad News Service). 

Document toi0000020010819dwco003ak




Business
Rate  Cut  Plea Amid Share Panic

Brian Hale And Agencies.   
579 words
22 December 2000
Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
21
English
© 2000 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.   www.smh.com.au

Pressure is mounting on the US Federal Reserve Board to cut US interest rates well ahead of its next Federal Open Market Committee meeting due late January, amid mounting fears America is sliding into recession.

Investors showed signs of panic yesterday as evidence of corporate carnage increased, and last night's trading session was expected to open under a cloud in the wake of further earnings downgrades.

Blue-chip tech companies were hard hit yesterday on Wall Street as investors reacted to a fresh wave of corporate downgradings and bad news.

The Nasdaq Composite index fell 7.1 per cent, the Dow Jones 2.5 per cent and the S&P 500 3.1 per cent as worries about falling profits continued to mount.

``The market appears to be sending the message that conditions are much worse than current data suggest, and the Fed needs to act now,'' said Mr Rick MacDonald, a senior economist with Standard & Poor's.

``The fear is growing that the longer the Fed waits to lean against this `recessionary' wind, the deeper and more prolonged the trough will actually be.''

Investment bank Merrill Lynch issued negative calls on IBM, Cisco Systems and Hewlett-Packard, and even downgraded the US economy itself.

And the flood of earnings downgrades continued, with bellwether telecom stock AT&T cutting both its earnings forecast and dividends after the market close, which is expected to pressure sentiment further.

Brokers also warned that the market's sharp decline is feeding on itself, with the share price declines prompting margin calls, resulting in further selling pressure hitting the market.

The stock wipe-out came in the wake of Fed chairman Dr Alan Greenspan's acknowledgment the previous day that the world's largest economy was sputtering and facing recession.

``The feeling is the economy's falling off a cliff,'' said Mr Frank Cappiello, president of McCullough, Andrews & Cappiello. ``This is about the severest market I've seen,'' added Mr Cappiello, who has been in the market for 30 years. ``We're facing terror, fear.'' Adding to the jitters was a warning from federal regulators that US banks' record profits of recent years ``may not be sustainable'' in view of the slowing US economy and concerns over excessive lending to sectors such as telecommunications where activity has been most torrid in recent years.

Although some still claimed the latest market tumble reflected disappointment at the lack of an interest rate cut, the general feeling still was that the almost three month-long slide in equities, particularly tech shares, was worsening due to fears about the impact of a sharper-than-expected economic downturn on already staggering corporate profits growth.

With some now raising the chances of a US recession next year to as high as 35 per cent as Asia's economic problems grow and world economic growth looking far more doubtful than it did even a month ago, the feeling among many on Wall Street was that the Fed might be hurried into interest rate cuts even sooner than its January meeting.

Merrill Lynch chief economist Mr Bruce Steinberg, previously one of Wall Street's less gloomy experts, cut his forecast of GDP growth from 3.3 per cent to less than 3 per cent.

[bb][fub More profit downgrades[peAT&T warning adds to woes[peChance of US recession 35pc[bb ] 

Document smhh000020010813dwcm00xe9




 UPDATE 1-Air Canada issues  profit warning , cuts jobs. 

 By Robert Melnbardis 
652 words
22 December 2000
04:58
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 MONTREAL, Dec 21 (Reuters) - Air Canada issued a fourth-quarter profit warning on Thursday, saying it would cut some 3,500 jobs, or about 8 percent of its workforce of 46,000, and raise domestic fares by 6 percent. 

 Air Canada, the country's largest airline, said its fourth-quarter loss would be deeper than 38 Canadian cents a share (25 cents a share) forecast published by by First Call/Thomson Financial, which polls analysts. 

 The Montreal-based airline said it expected a loss of about C$1.50 a share for the fourth quarter. Nonrecurring items in the quarter are expected to amount to about 75 Canadian cents a share, it said. 

 Air Canada said it expected to earn a profit of 60 Canadian cents a share, fully diluted, for the whole year. 

 That figure does not include some C$300 million of nonrecurring items. Those are related to the restructuring and integration of Canadian Airlines, lower revenue stemming from a pilots' strike threat this summer, and one-time merger for union groups that agreed to long-term labor pacts. 

 "Year 2000 has been a year of tremendous challenge, success and setback for Air Canada," Robert Milton, the airline's president and chief executive, said in a statement. 

 "While we started the fourth quarter with earnings expectations in the range of analysts' projections, it is clear that the last two weeks of extremely adverse winter weather has definitely dashed any such hope." 

 "Furthermore, in light of the major impact that increased fuel prices have put on our results throughout the year, it is also clear that Air Canada's earnings will continue to be under tremendous pressure throughout at least the first quarter of 2001," he added. 

 Milton said higher fuel costs ate up whatever cost savings the airline had made so far through its merger earlier this year with Calgary-based rival Canadian. Air Canada also incurred higher costs as it tried to improve customer service during the integration of the two airlines' vast domestic and international network. 

 "We confirm our earlier view that C$700 million in integration synergy benefits will be realized by the second half of 2001," Milton said, adding he was "guardedly optimistic" about earnings for the coming years. 

 Air Canada plans to cut the 3,500 jobs through attrition, voluntary departures and other measures. It said more than 700 of the combined carriers' management and clerical staff have opted to leave voluntarily. 

 Air Canada said another 700 members of the Canadian Auto Workers union had opted to leave, with 10 days remaining for others who want to leave with a severance package. 

 Particularly bad weather in December disrupted Air Canada's schedule and crimped profits. The carrier said 800 flights had to be canceled because of severe winter weather in the first three weeks of the month. That was more than five times the number of cancellations for the same period a year earlier. 

 The airline warned its earnings would be hurt even more if weather in its major centers of Toronto, Ottawa, Montreal, Chicago and New York did not return to normal patterns. 

 Air Canada said its fuel costs were C$600 million higher this year than in 1999. Those costs widened in the fourth quarter, and are expected to be about C$130 million higher in the coming first quarter than they were in the 1999 quarter. 

 The airline, which is part of the Star Alliance global airline group, plans a 6 percent fare increase on domestic flights on January 1 to counter the higher fuel costs. 

 Air Canada also said it planned to increase its network capacity by about 5 percent for the mainline carrier, less than the 8 percent forecast earlier. It will reduce capacity on its regional carriers by about 2 percent in 2001. 

 (US$ = $1.52 Canadian). 

Document lba0000020010821dwcm09eut




 Air Canada shares tumble on  profit warning . 

 By Robert Melnbardis 
720 words
22 December 2000
15:36
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 MONTREAL, Dec 22 (Reuters) - Shares of Air Canada tumbled 12 percent on Friday on the airline's warning that its fourth-quarter loss would be deeper than forecast by analysts. 

 Air Canada shares fell C$1.75 to C$12.50 on the Toronto Stock Exchange and were off $1-3/16 to $6-3/4 on Nasdaq in brisk trading on Friday morning. 

 Canada's dominant airline and the 11th largest in the world issued a profit warning on Thursday evening, adding that it would cut some 3,500 jobs, or about 8 percent of its workforce of 46,000, and raise domestic fares by 6 percent. 

 The Montreal-based carrier said its fourth-quarter loss would be almost four times deeper than the 38 Canadian cents a share (25 cents a share) forecast published by First Call/Thomson Financial, which polls analysts. 

 Air Canada said it expected a loss of about C$1.50 a share for the fourth quarter. Nonrecurring items in the quarter are expected to amount to about 75 Canadian cents a share, it said. 

 Air Canada said it foresees a profit of 60 Canadian cents a share, fully diluted, for the whole year. 

 That figure does not include some C$300 million ($200 million) of nonrecurring items. Those are related to the restructuring and integration of Canadian Airlines, lower revenue stemming from the threat of a pilots' strike this summer, and one-time merger for union groups that agreed to long-term labor pacts. 

 "Year 2000 has been a year of tremendous challenge, success and setback for Air Canada," Robert Milton, president and chief executive, said in the profit warning statement on Thursday. 

 "While we started the fourth quarter with earnings expectations in the range of analysts' projections, it is clear that the last two weeks of extremely adverse winter weather has definitely dashed any such hope." 

 "Furthermore, in light of the major impact that increased fuel prices have put on our results throughout the year, it is also clear that Air Canada's earnings will continue to be under tremendous pressure throughout at least the first quarter of 2001," he added. 

 Milton said higher fuel costs ate up whatever cost savings the airline had made so far through its merger earlier this year with Calgary-based rival Canadian Airlines. Air Canada also incurred higher costs as it tried to improve customer service during the integration of the two airlines' vast domestic and international network. 

 "We confirm our earlier view that C$700 million in integration synergy benefits will be realized by the second half of 2001," Milton said, adding he was "guardedly optimistic" about earnings for the coming years. 

 Air Canada plans to cut the 3,500 jobs through attrition, voluntary departures and other measures. It said more than 700 of the combined carriers' management and clerical staff have opted to leave voluntarily. 

 Air Canada said another 700 members of the Canadian Auto Workers union had opted to leave, with 10 days remaining for others who want to leave with a severance package. 

 Particularly bad weather in December disrupted Air Canada's schedule and crimped profits. The carrier said 800 flights had to be canceled because of severe winter weather in the first three weeks of the month. That was more than five times the number of cancellations for the same period a year earlier. 

 The airline warned its earnings would be hurt even more if weather in its major centers of Toronto, Ottawa, Montreal, Chicago and New York did not return to normal patterns. 

 The carrier's fuel costs were C$600 million higher this year than in 1999. Those costs widened in the fourth quarter, and are expected to be about C$130 million higher in the coming first quarter than they were in the 1999 quarter. 

 The airline, which is part of the Star Alliance global airline group, plans a 6 percent fare increase on domestic flights on January 1 to counter the higher fuel costs. 

 Air Canada also said it planned to increase its network capacity by about 5 percent for the mainline carrier, less than the 8 percent forecast earlier. It will reduce capacity on its regional carriers by about 2 percent in 2001. 

 ($1=$1.52 Canadian). 

Document lba0000020010821dwcm098ve


 Chicago Tribune Market Report Column 

 Bill Barnhart 
697 words
22 December 2000
KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Chicago Tribune - Illinois
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 A particularly disturbing aspect of financial news is the speed by which the boom seems to be lurching toward a bust. 

 In the latest bit of evidence, the index of business conditions compiled by the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia flipped to a negative 6.1 percent from a positive 5.2 percent at the last reading on November. 

 Minutes released Thursday from the November meeting of the Federal Reserve's interest rate policy committee disclosed that central bankers were surprised by the sudden signs of an economic slowdown. 

 How is such a quick turnaround possible in what we were told a few months ago was a robust economy? 

 President-elect George W. Bush seems determined to revive economic theories of John Maynard Keynes, especially the notion widely discredited even among ardent Bush supporters that tax cuts provide a counter-cyclical stimulus to a downturn. 

 If we're all going to be Keynesians now, as President Richard Nixon once said, then I get to resurrect my favorite allegory told by the great economist: 

 "It is as though a farmer, having tapped his barometer after breakfast, could decide to move his capital from the farming business between 10 and 11 in the morning and reconsider whether he should return to it later in the week." 

 This anecdote from 1936 is a remarkably apt description of the mentality in the stock market and, apparently, in many corporate executive suites. 

 Employees are being dumped as readily as overpriced stocks, as corporate managements vainly pretend they can time the market. 

 The speed of the Internet has not increased the steering ability of these titans, it should be clear by now. Greater information technology does not necessarily produce greater wisdom but does accelerate knee-jerk reactions. 

 As Keynes asserted in his farmer story, too much liquidity can be a dangerous thing. 

 It's one thing if foolish day-traders overreact. It's another when chief executive officers, prompted by the incoming president of the United States, decide that workers just beginning to enjoy the fruits of America's unprecedented economic growth are suddenly and conveniently expendable. 

 THURSDAY'S ACTION: Major stock indexes closed higher in heavy trading Thursday, rebounding a bit from a bout of selling. But analysts were reluctant to declare that the worst was over. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average gained 168.36 points, or 1.6 percent, to 10,487.29, on New York Stock Exchange volume of 1.41 billion shares. 

 Winning stocks outnumbered losers by a 4-3 margin among NYSE-listed stocks. The Standard & Poor's 500 index added 10.12, to 1274.86. 

 Financial service stocks, retailers and consumer products makers posted gains. Chicago-based Bank One added $1.62, to $36.50, despite an analyst report by Merrill Lynch that trimmed Bank One earnings estimates for this year and next. 

 Telecommunications stocks slumped after telecom equipment manufacturer Lucent Technologies lost more than 8 percent, to $14.19, reaching three-year lows, after the company issued its second profit warning in three months. 

 AT&T fell nearly 10 percent, to $17.06. Late Wednesday, the company released a downbeat outlook and slashed its quarterly dividend. 

 The Nasdaq composite index, in a roller-coaster session, closed up 7.34, to 2340.12, ending a seven-day losing streak. Nasdaq volume totaled 2.69 billion shares. 

 The technology-laden index traded in a 136-point range during the session, reaching a low of 2288 and a high of 2423. At the close, losers topped winners by 11-9 among Nasdaq stocks. 

 The Russell 2000 index of small-company stocks advanced 3.23, to 447.03. 

 Treasury securities mirrored the stock market, selling off as stocks rallied but recovering as the stock rally faded. Fixed-income traders cited strong demand for short-term Treasury bills as a safe-haven. 

 An index of investor sentiment tracked by PaineWebber fell sharply in December, with the greatest decline registered among the least-experienced investors. 

 The dollar slumped against the euro. The euro, quoted late Thursday at 91.6 cents, a four-month high, appeared to be headed toward parity against the dollar. 

Document krtbn00020010808dwcm004x1


Business
FIRMS SEE EARNINGS DROP; LUCENT, FORD, XEROX ISSUE WARNINGS

From Wire and Staff Reports   
941 words
22 December 2000
The Richmond Times-Dispatch
RCHD
City
B-8
English
Copyright 2000, Media General. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

Lucent Technologies, Ford Motor Co. and Xerox Corp. issued earnings warnings yesterday, adding to the likes of AT&T Corp. and others.

Ford also said it will cut production next month with a series of plant shutdowns at 16 North American factories affecting thousands of workers.

The Norfolk plant that builds Ford F-Series trucks will be closed the week of Jan. 22. That week, about 36,000 Ford workers in the United States, Canada and Mexico will be idle.

Lucent

Lucent warned that it expects to post a significant loss from continuing operations in the current quarter and said it plans a restructuring to cut in excess of $1 billion in costs.

Lucent said it expects a pro forma loss of 25 cents to 30 cents per share from continuing operations for its first fiscal quarter that ends Dec. 31 and expects that pro forma revenue will decline about 20 percent compared with a year ago.

Analysts at First Call/Thomson Financial had expected Lucent to report a first-quarter loss of 1 cent a share on an ongoing pro forma basis.

The company plans to reduce costs with a plan consisting of "force reductions" and asset writedowns.

"Fiscal year 2001 will be a rebuilding year, a turnaround year for Lucent," Lucent Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Henry Schacht said in a statement. "We have identified the issues we must tackle, and we are undertaking a major re-tooling of the business."

The company also restated its fiscal fourth-quarter revenue to $8.7 billion, with pro forma earnings to 10 cents a share on continuing operations, after it completed a review of its revenue.

It originally reported $9.4 billion in revenue and pro forma earnings of 18 cents a share. Lucent said adjusted results for the last fiscal year were $33.6 billion in revenue, with pro forma earnings of 93 cents a share from continuing operations.

Ford

Ford said earnings for the fourth quarter of this year would be about 10 cents a share, or roughly $190 million, well below analyst estimates of 74 cents a share.

The automaker also said it was cutting production by 9 percent from its previous plan. Output for the first quarter of 2001 is now expected to total slightly more than 1 million vehicles, a 17 percent reduction over the same period this year.

Martin Inglis, vice president of Ford North America, said that Ford was making its production cuts now to stay ahead of falling demand and that the company would "assess the economic picture again before the spring selling season."

Ford's move follows similar production cuts and earnings warnings from General Motors Corp. and DaimlerChrysler AG, all of which have found themselves stuck with thousands of extra vehicles amid falling demand for new cars and trucks in the United States.

About 9,000 GM workers will get an extra week off after the holidays as the automaker idles four plants to reduce inventories. Workers will receive about 95 percent of their regular pay during the shutdown.

Xerox

Xerox Corp., struggling with slow sales of its copiers and a deflated stock price, did not say how steep its fourth-quarter earnings decline would be, only that a "softer" performance is likely.

The office equipment maker also said it has drawn down the remaining balance of its $7 billion revolving credit agreement, but said its liquidity has improved with the completion of its previously announced $550 million sale of its China operations to Fuji Xerox Co. Ltd. Xerox said a portion of the credit line was used to repay maturing debt.

Including proceeds from the China sale, the company's current cash balance is about $1.4 billion, up from $154 million on Sept. 30.

Some analysts have been speculating about a possible bankruptcy protection filing by Xerox.

AT&T

Investors hammered AT&T in trading a day after the telephone company announced its first-ever reduction in dividend.

Shares dropped $1.88, or nearly 10 percent, to close at $17.06 on the New York Stock Exchange. AT&T shares have lost nearly 73 percent of their value since hitting a 52-week high of $61 in April.

The 83 percent dividend cut, designed to help AT&T pay off some of its $62 billion in debt, was announced as the company warned of disappointing revenue and profit for the third time in as many quarters.

Qwest Communications

Qwest Communications International Inc.'s stock rose nearly 16 percent yesterday after executives said they were sticking to projections for revenue and earnings despite turmoil among competitors and a 17 percent drop in stock price in the past four weeks.

Joe Nacchio, Qwest chairman and chief executive, said the company's strategy to lead the industry in a transition to an increasingly Internet-minded world would help it avoid the missteps of competitors.

Georgia-Pacific

Georgia-Pacific Group joined other forest products companies in warning that fourth-quarter profit will fall short of forecasts.

The Atlanta-based company said yesterday that operating profit would be "substantially below" analysts' estimates but didn't specify how much. Georgia-Pacific was expected to earn 62 cents a share in the quarter, according to an analyst survey by First Call/Thomson Financial. That would be down from a $1-a-share profit a year earlier.

Georgia-Pacific blamed the shortfall on a poor building products market. It also cited a slowdown in pulp, paper and packaging, plus soaring energy costs at some West Coast mills.

Document RCHD000020111212dwcm01f54




Nation/World
BUSINESS
NATION/WORLD

Bloomberg News, Associated Press, Bridge News   
640 words
22 December 2000
Charlotte Observer (NC)
CLTO
ONE-THREE
1D
English
Copyright 2000 The Charlotte Observer. All rights reserved.   

Ford reduces productiongoal by 17%

Ford Motor Co. cut its first-quarter North American production plan 17 percent from a year earlier because of slower demand and said profit this quarter will be reduced by weather and parts shortages that trimmed output.

The second-largest automaker expects to build 1.05 million cars and light trucks in North America in the first quarter, down 220,000 from a year earlier and 107,000, or 9.2 percent, from its previous plan. Profit this quarter will be about 10 cents a share, or 14 percent, lower than the 74-cent average analyst estimate, the company said. - Bloomberg News

Evidence of slowdown seen in 3rd-quarter growth rate

The economy braked to a four-year low in growth of just 2.2 percent in the July-September quarter, further evidence that America's booming economy is cooling.

A downward revision Thursday by the Commerce Department in the gross domestic product for the third quarter sent private economists scurrying to lower their forecasts for the current quarter and next year. While few are predicting an outright recession, many said the economy has definitely entered a "growth recession" in which output keeps expanding but at such a slow pace that the unemployment rate rises. - Associated Press

Lucent issues loss warning, announces restructuring

Lucent Technologies said its first-quarter losses would be far greater than Wall Street expected and announced a restructuring in an effort to cut $1 billion in costs.

The telecom equipment maker, plagued in the past year by a string of earnings shortfalls, expects a loss in the quarter ending Dec. 31 of between 24 cents and30 cents a share. Analysts had estimated a 1-cent loss. Revenues in the period will be 20 percent below a year ago.

Lucent also revised down its fourth-quarter earnings by 8 cents a share to 10 cents. The latest profit warning was prompted by a lower sales in North America caused by weakness in demand from competitive local exchange carriers, a slowdown in capital spending by service providers and lower software sales. - BridgeNews

Xerox hits wall on credit, sends warning on losses

Xerox Corp. exhausted a $7 billion credit line used to finance operations and said it will have a wider-than-expected fourth-quarter loss because of the slowing U.S. economy.

The world's largest copier company will be dependent on $1.4 billion in cash to pay bills and fund daily operations, along with what's raised from asset sales. Xerox said in October that it was using the credit line, provided by 58 banks, after being unable to sell commercial paper, or short-term IOUs.

Xerox is counting on selling$4 billion in assets and cutting $1 billion in costs over the next year to ease the cash crunch. - Bloomberg News

In Brief

NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP., the fifth-largest U.S. defense contractor, agreed to buy shipbuilder Litton Industries Inc. for $5.1 billion in cash and assumed debt. Northrop is best known as the developer of the B-2 stealth bomber. Litton is the Navy's third-largest shipbuilder.

UNITED PARCEL SERVICE said Thursday it will end its six-year sponsorship with the International Olympic Committee, becoming the second major sponsor to drop out before the 2002 games in Salt Lake City. The package delivery company said it has realized its marketing goals from its association with the Games, which allowed it to increase its presence outside the United States.

SBC COMMUNICATIONS INC. paid $6.1 million to the U.S. government for failing to meet some regulatory conditions stemming from its $80.6 billion purchase of Ameritech Corp., federal regulators said. From August to October, SBC missed some performance goals used to monitor its treatment of competitors.

Document CLTO000020090630dwcm01fvj




 Companies: Lucent Predicts Quarterly Loss And Blames Focus Problems --- AT&T Slices Dividend 83% and Reduces Projection for Earnings, Revenue ---- Companies' Stock Prices Skid in Reaction to Forecasts 

 By Shawn Young and Deborah Solomon 
Staff Reporters
851 words
22 December 2000
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
5
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Lucent Technologies Inc., paying the price for years of pushing for faster growth than the company could sustain, said it expects an operating loss of 25 U.S. cents to 30 U.S. cents (28 European cents to 33 European cents) a diluted share in the current first fiscal quarter. 

 The U.S. maker of telecommunications equipment also erased $679 million from its previously reported fiscal fourth-quarter revenue and introduced a plan to cut $1 billion in costs this year. 

 The profit warning came a day after AT&T Corp., which spun off Lucent in 1996, slashed its quarterly dividend by 83% and said fourth-quarter revenue and earnings will be lower than expected. AT&T cut its earnings projections to 26 cents to 28 cents a share from the 29 cents to 33 cents a share previously expected. It also cut projections for its overall top-line revenue growth to 2.5% to 3% from the 4% to 5% predicted just two months ago. 

 Shares in Lucent tumbled 8.5%, or $1.31, to $14.19 each at 4 p.m. on the New York Stock Exchange. AT&T sank 10%, or $1.94, to $17; the stock dropped 7.9% on Wednesday. 

 Lucent attributed its problems to overheated attempts to meet short-term growth targets that proved to be overly ambitious. "We mortgaged future sales and revenue in a way we are paying for now," said Henry Schacht, the company's chairman and chief executive. Mr. Schacht added that Lucent's unsuccessful efforts "led to focus and execution issues that derailed our company." 

 Lucent scrambled to book sales as quarters ended, boosting results with techniques such as telling customers that if they bought immediately they would get a discount on future purchases, much as consumers sometimes get coupons at supermarket checkout counters. The company thought strong sales of future products would easily make up for the discounts, Mr. Schacht said. 

 But such sales practices were on a collision course with declining sales in Lucent's older products and with the company's well-known failure to comprehend the growing demand for the fastest-possible optical-networking gear. 

 In addition to a substantial loss in the current quarter, which ends Dec. 31, Lucent expects revenue to be 20% lower than in the 1999 period, which would put sales at $6.3 billion. Lucent warned investors last month that it could no longer vouch for its earlier first-quarter projection that the company would break even. The consensus among analysts was that the company would lose one cent a share in the first quarter, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Cutbacks in capital spending by customers and a tougher stance on the sometimes-risky practice of offering customers financing for their purchases are slowing sales in the current quarter, the company said. Lucent's costs are also far too high, said Mr. Schacht, who insisted that Lucent fully understands what is wrong and can fix the problems facing the company. 

 Lucent plans to cut costs by $1 billion this fiscal year, and some analysts expect the company to eliminate 10,000 jobs as part of that effort. Lucent hasn't disclosed job-cut plans yet. 

 After an extensive review of results for the fourth fiscal quarter ended Sept. 30, the company slashed revenue by 7% and lopped 8 cents a share from already-reported results. 

 Meanwhile, AT&T said on Wednesday that it will cut the company's quarterly dividend payout to just 3.75 cents a share from 22 cents a share. It is the first time in AT&T's more than 100-year history that it has cut its dividend. The move will save the telecom company, saddled with $62 billion in debt and mounting expenses, about $2.74 billion a year in payouts. It also puts AT&T more in line with its industry peers, most of which don't pay out dividends. 

 "While we did not make this decision lightly, we believe it is necessary and in the best long-term interests of our shareowners to adopt a dividend policy comparable to the policies of our competitors," said AT&T Chairman C. Michael Armstrong. 

 The earnings revision was the fourth one this year for AT&T, which is suffering from industrywide long-distance pricing pressures and the skyrocketing growth of wireless phones. The company blamed part of its revenue problems on its beleaguered Business Services unit, which AT&T said would have about 1% revenue growth instead of the already lowered figure of 2.5%. Going into this year, Mr. Armstrong had projected as much as 11% growth for the unit in 2000. AT&T also said its consumer long-distance division will see revenue fall at a midteens rate, compared with the nearly 11% decline previously expected. 

Document wsje000020010814dwcm00gzk


 GUEST EDITORS' OVERVIEW OF THE ISSUE.(Brief Article) 

 MICHAEL LEVY; DHRUV GREWAL 
6,609 words
22 December 2000
Journal of Retailing
JRET
415
ISSN: 0022-4359; Volume 76; Issue 4
English
 Copyright 2000 Gale Group Inc. All rights reserved. COPYRIGHT 2000 Elsevier Science Publishers Ltd. 

 Supply Chain Management in a Networked Economy 

 Why a special issue of Journal of Retailing on Supply Chain Management? The first, and probably the most obvious reason is that the retailer and its customer are at the end of the supply chain. In fact, several recent initiatives in industry have expanded the traditional boundaries of logistics to include consumer data collected by retailers and shared with key vendors. For instance, the Food Marketing Institute introduced the Efficient Consumer Response (ECR) initiative (Blattberg and Fox, 1995; Kahn and McAlister, 1997) to provide better value to customers by developing stronger and more efficient relations with their suppliers. Part and parcel to the success of ECR is channel-wide sharing and utilization of consumer purchase information. 

 The second reason for this special issue is that marketing and distribution have always been inextricably linked. Although always one of the four Ps (place), the logistics and distribution discipline has gone through some hard times. Until fairly recently, and certainly within the last 20 years, logistics and supply chain managers had not yet broken through the warehouse glass ceiling into the board rooms. Yet, marketing and logistics, a major component of supply chain management, have a common root grounded firmly in economics. For instance, both marketing (Bartels, 1976) as well as logistics (Stock and Lambert, 2001) claim a report on the distribution of farm products to be the first scholarly effort in their respective disciplines (Crowell, 1901, cited in Langley et al. Undated). Recently, however, marketing scholars are again claiming territorial rights to supply chain management (cf. Blackwell and Blackwell, 1999). Reasons for this renewed interest in integrating the two disciplines include: corporate e mphasis on horizontal (coordinated) decision-making across previously "functional" areas of business; concern for understanding, measuring, and quantifying the customer value created by logistics; and the development and integration of marketing and logistics strategies. 

 Finally, recent supply chain initiatives in the networked economy as well as sophisticated systems integration have melded the practitioner and academic interests in the area. These initiatives and their implications for research in supply chain management are discussed later in this overview. 

 OVERVIEW OF ISSUE CONTRIBUTORS 

 There is nothing more important within the realm of supply chain management than the management of inventory (e.g., Fisher, 1997). After all, the procurement and sale of inventory is the raison d'etre of all merchandise retailers. Retailers' ability to coordinate inventory procurement with their vendors can bring about an insurmountable competitive advantage. Therefore, it is not surprising that the first two articles in this special issue are concerned with automatic replenishment systems. Automatic replenishment systems (ARPs) also known as--vendor managed inventory (VMI) systems are part of an overall Quick Response inventory strategy designed to lower inventory investment, while at the same time increase product availability. By coordinating the demand for merchandise replenishment with vendors, these "pull" inventory systems more accurately match inventory with demand than the more traditional "push" systems. 

 The first article, "A Decision Support System for Vendor Managed Inventory," (Achabal, McIntyre, Smith, and Kalyanam, 2000) describes a decision support system that is being used by a major apparel manufacturer with many of its key retail accounts. The benefits that accrued to this particular vendor's retailers were significant and included higher inventory turnover and higher sales due to an improved in stock inventory position. 

 The second article, "The Effectiveness of Automatic Inventory Replenishment in Supply-Chain Operations: Antecedents and Outcomes," (Myers, Daugherty, and Autry, 2000), examines the impact of ARPs across firms. Although several hypothesized relationships were found to be nonsignificant, probably due to the newness of ARP programs with many retailers, they did find that ARP effectiveness was related to managerial commitment, and ARP service effectiveness was related to firm strategic performance. 

 Category management is another issue that has received a great deal of attention in retailing and supply chain management in both the academic and trade publications. Popular in grocery and discount store operations, but applicable across other retail businesses, category management is designed to coordinate all of the marketing activities of a category, rather than individual vendors, with the objective of maximizing the profitability of the category. The third article, "Determinants and Outcomes of Plan Objectivity and Implementation in Category Management Relationships," (Gruen and Shah, 2000) describe a study in which they identify, and then empirically test, factors that they believe impact a category's performance. They found that implementation of category plans had a greater effect on category performance than did the objectivity of the plans. Further, the retailer's trust in the category management process was a critical component of the implementation of category plans. Preplanning agreements betwe en retailers and their vendors were also found to impact both the objectivity and implementation of the category plans. 

 The next two articles set forth situations under which different supply chains should most efficiently operate. "Is Channel Coordination All It Is Cracked Up To Be," (Ingene and Parry, 2000) questions the conventional wisdom about channel coordination. Specifically, the authors take exception to the commonly held belief in the marketing science literature that vendors should set prices that maximize supply chain profit, that is, achieve channel coordination. Specifically, they compare two variations of the maximize-channel-profit rule (a linear quantity-discount schedule and a menu of two-part tariffs) with an alternative, nonlinear quantity-discount schedule that does not maximize channel profits. Empirical results suggest that the manufacturer's optimal choice among these three policies is dependent on the retailers' opportunity costs, the retailers' relative size and the degree of inter-retailer competition. Further, in their examination of a two-part tariff pricing strategy, channel coordination was not in the vendor's best interest. As a result, and at least within the confines of their model, they conclude that it may not be in the vendor's best interest to offer retailers the same wholesale-price schedule, that is, coordinate the channel. 

 An interesting complement to the Ingene and Parry (2000) article is the research set forth here by Mentzer, Min, and Zacharia (2000). They identify conditions under which supply chain members should strive for a strategic versus an operational partnership. Strategic partnering is an on-going, long-term interfirm relationship for achieving strategic goals, which delivers value to customers and profitability to partners. Operational partnering is an as-needed, short-term relationship for obtaining parity with competitors. One might think that supply chain members should strive for strategic partnership because they lead to sustainable competitive advantages, whereas operational partnering leads to competitive parity. Mentzer et al. (2000) note that there are tradeoffs to be made. Operational partnering requires less time, effort and partnership-specific assets to maintain. Operational partnering may therefore be more appropriate and more likely to succeed than strategic partnering in particular retail supply c hains and between particular firms. 

 We are certain that you will find these articles interesting and complementary to your reading in supply chain management. Naturally, however, this special issue cannot cover the gambit of topics that should and could be examined. In the following pages, we briefly overview a number of additional topics and research issues also deserving of research attention. 

 SUPPLY CHAINS: THEN AND NOW 

 Supply chain management used to be simple compared to what it is today. Manufacturers sold to wholesalers or directly to retailers. Salespeople called on their supply chain customers and wrote orders. Or, retailers called in their orders or sent them by mail. This low-tech supply chain started to die out in the 1980s and was almost extinct by the mid-1990s. 

 UPC, EDI, QR were the key supply chain acronyms of the 1990s. Retailers scanned UPCs (universal product codes). Orders were transmitted computer-to-computer through EDI (electronic data interchange) systems, resulting in QR (Quick Response) inventory systems designed to improve product availability, while at the same time lowering inventory investment. Before the Internet, EDI systems were proprietary, that is, owned and operated either by a retailer, a vendor, or a third-party provider known as a value added network (VAN). These systems were generally very expensive to develop and required a significant commitment by all parties involved. Increasingly, EDI data are being transmitted over the Internet through extranets. An extranet is a collaborative network that uses Internet technology to link businesses with their suppliers, customers or other businesses. Extranets are typically private and secure in that only certain parties can access them. For example, several global retailers, including PETsMART and F rance's Carrefour are using a supplier-buyer extranet network. Suppliers can feature their products, buyers can issue requests for proposals, and then the two parties can electronically negotiate an order and product development (Koloszyc, 1999). Also available over the Internet are intranets, which are secure communication systems that take place within one company. 

 Collaboration, Planning, Forecasting and Replenishment (CPFR) takes EDI to a new level (Cooke, 1998, Parks, 1999). Popular in grocery and drug industries, CPFR is an inventory management system for the sharing of information among channel members. Here, the retailer sends information to a manufacturer who uses the data to construct a computer-generated replenishment forecast. This forecast will then be shared with the retailer before being executed. By using CPFR, the manufacturer and retailer jointly resolve replenishment issues. 

 The role that the Internet and other emerging technologies are playing on the supply chains is ripe for future research (Lancioni, Smith, and Oliva, 2000). Lancioni et al. (2000) in a survey of 181 executives found that more and more organizations were using Internet applications in a number of logistical or supply chain areas, such as transportation (56.2%), order processing (50.7%), purchasing/procurement (45.2%), customer service (42.5%), vendor relations (45.2%), inventory management (30.1%), and production scheduling (12.3%). 

 Supply chains are changing dramatically as the world economy becomes networked. These changes provide exciting research opportunities for academics from varied disciplines from operations management to social psychology. Examine the extended supply chain in Figure 1. Note that Networks/Technology/and the Internet are at the nexus of the Vendor/Retailer/Customer triangle. The traditional domain of logistics and supply chain management has been the Vendor-to-Retailer link. Although our list is not all encompassing, all of the articles included in this special issue are represented by the first four categories of the vendor-to-retailer link. The managerial implications and research opportunities of retailer networks are discussed below. 

 Looking at the Retailer-to-Customer link, we note several topics of likely interest to both marketing and supply chain researchers that are not considered in this Special Issue. Data warehouses and loyalty programs; multiple selling channels; assortment planning; third party logistics intermediaries; and location issues are all ripe with new problems to be solved and research questions to be answered. Reverse logistics-the process of getting merchandise back through the channel had previously been the domain of the Retailer-to-Vendor link. In today's environment reverse logistics has become a more salient issue in the Retailer-to-Customer link as clicks and mortar and clicks only retailers worry about processing merchandise returned as a result of Internet purchases. There is a common link for each of the topics discussed in the Retailer-to-Customer link. Each is concerned with increasing customer service, while at the same time decreasing costs. 

 Finally, the growth of the Internet has expanded the research opportunities in the Vendor-to-Customer link. Disintermediation resulting from manufacturers selling directly to the ultimate consumer has occurred with increased frequency and intensity as a result of the Internet. Also, manufacturers have an increased interest in and ability to strengthen their customer orientation. In the next few sections, we will explore the research possibilities from an e-retailing perspective. 

 MANUFACTURER/VENDOR-TO-RETAILER 

 Research on the manufacturer/vendor-to-retailer link in the supply chain (Figure 1) has an important place in the marketing and logistics literature in general and in the Journal of Retailing in particular. It is also the traditional domain of business-to-business, sales management, and channel research. The domain hasn't changed in the networked environment. On a very basic level, some of the issues, such as channel conflict and channel structure, remain the same. The research setting and the relative importance of the topics, however, are shifting in the networked economy. Although all of the articles in this Special Issue of Journal of Retailing are within the domain of the Manufacturer/Vendor-to-Retailer link, we have chosen one interesting topic to illustrate the research opportunities in this area--Retailer Networks. 

 Retailer Networks 

 A rich area for supply chain research in the networked economy is in the area of retailer networks. Some very traditional sales networks such as Avon are developing a strong Web presence. The degree to which and the ways in which this new channel option will affect its current supply chain configuration from a dealer and fulfillment perspective will have significant implications for both researchers and managers. 

 Although most experts are predicting that bricks and mortar retailers who have an aggressive Internet presence will ultimately win the war against their clicks-only rivals, some innovative business models afford advantages not available to traditional supply chains. For instance, Send.com, a purveyor of gifts and experiential gift packages, utilizes a dealer network that affords it a competitive advantage over other clicks-only retailers. They contract with local retailers and service providers for wine, candy, restaurants, golf clubs, spas, and so forth. Gift-givers specify a particular "package" to send.com. They arrange for delivery of the product or service with their dealer network, but carry no inventory and have no financial investment in the retailer or service provider. Research on these new channel configurations may provide new perspectives on how more traditional channels could more effectively operate. 

 Some innovative retailers will garner some share of their respective markets because they can provide products/services or a supply chain configuration that cannot be easily duplicated by their more traditional competitors. It will be interesting to study the aggregate effects of these new entries in specific retail markets. Some would suggest that they would capture market share from the traditional leaders. Others would argue a Pareto Optimal situation in which the new entrants and traditional market leaders will benefit as a result of total market expansion and the adaptation of the new technologies and innovations introduced by the new entrants. 

 RETAIL-TO-CONSUMER 

 Traditionally, the retailer to consumer link had not been under the auspices of supply chain management. In fact, it is at this node that the traditional logistical responsibility ends and marketing begins. Throughout the last decade, however, traditional boundaries have blurred. The mid-1990s marked the beginning of the ECR initiative in the grocery and discount chain industries (Blattberg and Fox, 1995; Kahn and McAlister, 1997). In these and other retail industries, experts now believe that the greatest incremental benefits in supply chain management can be derived by concentrating on the demand or customer side, as opposed to the supply or supplier side (Blackwell and Blackwell, 1999; Poirer, 1999). In the previous decades, research and study has significantly advanced supply-side knowledge. Demand, as opposed to supply, chains have therefore now become a more frequently discussed topic in both academic and practitioner circles. More and more companies are realizing the need to broaden their focus from im proving internal efficiencies (i.e., supply chains) to serving their customers effectively (e.g., Parasuraman and Grewal, 2000a, b; Poirer, 1999). 

 To understand the customer or demand side of the supply chain, we believe it is of major importance to comprehend the role of data warehouses and loyalty programs. 

 Data Warehouses and Loyalty Programs 

 A data warehouse is the coordinated, and periodic copying of data from various sources, both inside and outside the enterprise, into an environment ready for analytical and informational processing (Simon, 1997). Data warehouses go hand-in-hand with retail loyalty programs. Loyalty programs provide data for the warehouses, and information from the warehouses help direct loyalty programs' strategy. 

 In the past, both retailers and their supply chain partners had used customer purchase data primarily for inventory management--the retailer-to-vendor link in Figure 1. Today's data mining techniques, however, provide information about individual customers previously unavailable, thus expanding research opportunities in the customer-to-retailer link. 

 Both areas--data warehouses and loyalty programs--are ripe with opportunities for researchers. One particular use of a data warehouse is a market-basket analysis in which retailers analyze the data (or mine the data) to determine what predominant categories individual customers are buying. Programs then group customers into clusters based on their purchases. Wal-Mart, for instance, uses data mining to change the location of many items in their stores (Nelson, 1998). Wal-Mart Supercenters displays bananas next to the corn flakes (to help sell more cereal) as well as in the produce section. Interestingly, however, market-basket analysis has not been explored in the marketing/supply chain academic literature. 

 Retailers are just beginning to harness the power of data warehouses. By collecting purchase and other information from their customers, Internet retailers can provide a level of customized service heretofore available only through the best specialty stores. For instance, JCPenney's just4me.com site enables petite, tall, and plus-size women to create a virtual model and "try on" clothing designed to look good on them. Programs like this build loyalty in three ways. First, customers are drawn to retailers with these customized programs because they provide superior help in finding what they want. Second, a customized program cannot readily be duplicated by competition. Finally, customer preference data can be used to plan future assortments and target promotions to individual customers. 

 Multiple Selling Channels 

 As a way of competing with their clicks-only competitors, some bricks retailers are experimenting with different strategies that utilize Internet technology to enhance customer in-store experience. Some place kiosks in the store to facilitate customer connections to the Internet site. Customers can get product and availability information from the kiosk and then purchase the product in the store. Alternatively, they can view the product in the store, purchase it over the Internet, and have it delivered to their home. Customers may also place an order on the net and pick it up in the store. For those who crave faster gratification or want to avoid delivery charges, this hybrid approach may be appealing. 

 These multiple selling channels create interesting opportunities and challenges from a supply chain management perspective. The rules governing merchandise assortment decisions will be fundamentally different. if consumers embrace the opportunity to view merchandise in the store and take delivery at home, then the amount of in-store safety stock required to meet demand is significantly reduced. In the extreme, stores, or at least certain merchandise categories, could become showrooms with no merchandise for immediate sale. A challenge for retailers who encourage their customers to order over the net and pick up in the store will be to insure the merchandise is, in fact, ready when the customer arrives. This may sound easy, but in reality requires extreme discipline and coordination of the supply chain function. 

 Although new to the Internet channel, financial services retailers have long offered customers multiple selling channels. Banks, for instance, offer PC banking, teller banking, ATM banking, and now Internet banking. It is possible to learn about what might occur in the Internet product environment by studying analogous situations from service industries. Looking at financial services directly, researchers can examine the role that Internet technologies play, how quickly they diffuse, and the affect they will have on the relative efficiency of the channel. Research can also assess whether these alternative channel options add to the end-value received by the customers and whether they add to the profitability of the supply chain. 

 The Internet Retailer's Assortment Planning Dilemma 

 Internet-only retailers face a very different set of issues than traditional bricks and mortar retailers with an Internet presence. First, Internet-only retailers are not constrained by their investment in stores. Second, Internet-only retailers do not have to stock every item that they sell. They can, for instance, stock their best-selling items in distribution centers and have other items shipped directly from wholesalers or manufacturers. Finally, and most importantly, because the size of store and level of inventory investment constraints are relaxed, Internet-only retailers can provide a wider variety, deeper assortment, and higher level of product availability more easily than bricks and mortar retailers can. 

 Herein lie several issues in terms of making variety and assortment decisions. An important function of retailers has been to provide a carefully edited selection of merchandise that meets the needs of their target customers. dELiAs, for instance, is a catalog and Internet retailer that targets teenage girls. Now, suppose that dELiAs begins to expand their variety and assortment on their Internet site. They decide to offer six casual dress styles instead of three, for instance. In the past, buyers were able to choose the products they believed were the very best choices for their customers. If they relax their vigilance with regard to choosing only what they believe will be the best choices, they will begin to loose their cache with their target customers. 

 Staples.com, on the other hand, would view the assortment flexibility available through their Internet operation as a way to solve all of the purchasing needs of their target customers--small businesses. As a result they carry significantly more items at Staples.com than they do in their bricks and mortar stores. 

 These assortment planning issues are important to retailers and should be quite interesting to supply chain researchers. Questions include: Should retailers use distribution centers or have merchandise drop-shipped from vendors? What is the optimal assortment strategy? Should a retailer maintain a carefully edited assortment or be everything to everybody? 

 Location 

 The networked economy has the potential of overturning everything we know about how we locate stores and distribution centers. Currently, retailers utilize fairly sophisticated geographic information systems (GIS) and other models such as CHAID ([[chi].sup.2] Automatic Interaction Detection) to determine the best location for a new store or joint set of stores. But these information systems and models are not currently set up to measure the demand from Internet customers who can be located anywhere in the world. 

 The answers to the following questions will provide managers with needed information and fodder for research for years to come. First, will bricks and mortar stores with a strong Internet presence continue to need the same number of stores in the same locations as they do now? Second, should distribution centers continue to be located around stores, or should their location consider Internet sale endpoint locations? A corrolary question is, should retailers utilize their current distribution centers that are generally designed to send multiple items to stores, or should separate centers be set up to handle Internet orders? Finally, how will Internet sales affect the quantity and type of shopping centers that are being developed and renovated? 

 Third Party Logistics Intermediaries 

 The small shipment problem is another interesting research issue facing retailers who utilize multiple selling channels. A fundamental change in the retail supply chain as a result of online shopping is the way in which customers take possession of merchandise. In a traditional bricks and mortar setting, large quantities of merchandise are delivered to a store and sold one at a time. In an e-retail setting, merchandise must be delivered to customers one at a time. Although catalog retailers are used to shipping small shipments, distribution centers for bricks and mortar are typically not set up to handle them. This situation brings intriguing research opportunities. 

 What is the ideal distribution center configuration in an e-retailing environment? Should "bricks and clicks" retailers separate their bricks from their clicks distribution operations? What is the best way to handle the potential small delivery explosion? Is there a niche for another link in the supply chain that delivers merchandise "the last mile" to the customers' home? 

 Reverse Logistics 

 Reverse logistics is a term used primarily to describe the process of merchandise returns from customers to retailers and then retailers back to vendors. As a research topic, its traditional domain has been in the retailer-to-vendor link because customers of bricks-and-mortar stores typically brought the merchandise to stores. Although an important issue, retailers normally had to deal with reverse logistics when customers brought back merchandise that they didn't like or was defective. 

 Reverse logistics systems have never been simple or inexpensive. The items may be damaged, and without the original shipping carton, thus causing special handling needs. Transportation costs can be high because items are shipped back in small quantities. Reverse logistics is a more serious problem with catalog and Internet retailers than bricks and mortar-only retailers because returns from customers are much higher than for bricks-and mortar retailers. In fact, they are between 25 and 40%. It is easy to imagine that the reverse logistics cost could equal or exceed the value of merchandise in systems designed primarily for forward logistics. 

 Supply chain researchers are faced with several interesting challenges with regard to reverse logistics. First, there are new business opportunities through the Internet. For example, thereturnexchange.com, helps retailers and their vendors solve these problems by taking over the return process. Second, it would be important to study how third party logistics intermediaries can help retailers cope with the rise in returns associated with Internet purchases. 

 VENDOR-TO-CUSTOMER 

 The vendor-to-customer link is arguably the most studied link in traditional marketing circles. Brand management, pricing, promotion, and consumer behavior are all typically studied from the view of the vendor/manufacturer. There are, however, at least two issues that have become increasingly important to supply chain researchers and managers as a result of advances in the networked economy, technology, and the Internet. These two issues, which are discussed in this section, are disintermediation and customer orientation. 

 Disintermediation 

 Disintermediation has become a topic of increasing intensity as e-tailing grows in importance. In a retailing setting, disintermediation occurs when a manufacturer or wholesaler competes directly with its retailers. Disintermediation usually arises when a vendor decides to vertically integrate either for economic or strategic reasons, by starting retailing activities. Disintermediation can be illegal if it restrains competition by either systematically undercutting the retail price of the retailers they sell to or by making merchandise that is not otherwise available difficult to obtain. 

 Some manufacturers, for example, Compaq, HP, and IBM, believe that selling over the Internet directly to the ultimate consumer can increase their profit margins by circumventing their current retail channels, both Internet and bricks and mortar retailers. From a competitive perspective, the Internet becomes just another channel to these manufacturers--no different than opening a chain of factory outlet stores. 

 A number of these organizations (e.g., Compaq) have suffered because their traditional manufacturer-retailer relationships have resulted in high inventory carrying costs as compared to certain predominantly catalogue and click retailers (e.g., Dell, Micron, and Gateway). The fact that their products are technology oriented and have a short life cycle has further exasperated their problems. Thus, competing on the Internet has become a strategic imperative. 

 Other manufacturers, notably Levi Strauss and Reebok, experimented with disintermediation and concluded that it was not worth the trouble for two important reasons. First, manufacturers are generally not set up to perform the fulfillment functions necessary to move merchandise from the factory to the customer. They are accustomed to manufacturing and shipping large quantities. Second, manufacturers do not want to anger their current retail customers by competing with them. Home Depot, for example, issued a warning to vendors suggesting that anyone attempting to sell direct will be treated as a competitor. In other words, Home Depot would cut them off (Industrial Distribution, 1999). Researchers can explore the "real" profit implications of disintermediation from a vendor's, a retailer's, or from a total channel perspective. Optimal distribution configurations and networks can also be explored. 

 Manufacturers are utilizing several tactics to attempt to appease their traditional retail customers while selling over the Internet. They are offering a selection of brands and products only available on-line. For instance, P&G is selling a premium line of cosmetics direct to the consumer via the Internet. Their site, Reflect.com, is a personalized beauty experience that suggests products based on individual skin tones, texture, color and so on. Other vendors are simply attempting to keep a low profile, sell only higher price points over the Internet, or leave the execution of promotional events to the exclusive domain of traditional retailers (Meriefield, 1999). An assessment of the viability of each of these branding strategies would be useful from both pragmatic and theoretical perspectives. 

 It is also important to examine how the use of these alternative channels affects the supply chain and the efficiencies of the manufacturer. Industries experiencing disintermediation are perfect for examining channel power and conflict--a topic with a long and rich history in marketing channels. (For a recent comprehensive review and historical perspective see Frazier, 1999.) Issues pertaining to channel conflict, alienation and cooperation are likely to be very fruitful avenues of research. For instance, experts believe that the disintermediation issue will turn into a power battle of the brands. Toys "R" Us needs Barbie dolls more than Home Depot needs Armstrong flooring, for example. The channel partner with the strongest brand will be able to dictate whether disintermediation takes place (Rubinson and Levy, 1999). 

 Customer Orientation 

 The networked economy facilitates a stronger customer orientation by vendors. For instance, customers can communicate directly with manufacturers through email. Also, CPFR and other techniques in which vendors take an active role in the management of inventory helps keep vendors abreast of customer demand in real time, thus enabling them to work quickly with retailers to provide customers exactly what they want--when they want it. 

 Clearly, in today's highly competitive markets, vendors need to be in touch with their customers. Sheth, Sisodia, and Sharma (2000) and Parasuraman and Grewal (2000a) have indicated that more and more firms (and vendors) need to focus on customer-oriented practices. By following such an orientation, vendors are likely to play a greater role in driving markets as opposed to reacting to markets (Jaworski, Kohli, and Sahay, 2000). They cannot just rely on data provided by their retailers. Vendors need constantly to assess customer perceptions of the value proposition of their products and services, availability/ stock-out, and support services provided. Each of these areas is likely to be a fruitful area of future enquiry. 

 Recent research has clearly articulated the role of intelligence generation in the creation of customer value or the value proposition (Slater and Narver, 2000; Parasurman and Grewal, 2000b). Vendors need to be constantly monitoring the value proposition of their products and services. They need to clearly understand how facets of their supply chain, such as availability of the product (lack of stock-outs), customer support services, return policies among others are going to influence customer perceptions of value. Recent research has identified at least four key dimensions of value-acquisition (benefits to costs), transaction (deal aspects), in-use (utility of using the product) and redemption (residual benefits at trade in time) (Grewal, Monroe, and Krishnan 2000; Parasuraman and Grewal, 2000). 

 Vendors can directly influence the acquisition value by influencing the availability of the product. This would reduce the time-cost of the acquisition and increase likelihood of adoption. Customer support services are likely to play an important role in the benefit side of the acquisition and the in-use utility. Use of Web-based information by the vendor can also have an important role in influencing these four dimensions. For example, vendors could post the trade-in value of their products (e.g., it is easy to find this information for cars). Clearly, these areas need more attention. 

 SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS 

 The purpose of this overview has been twofold. First, it has served as an introduction to this special issue of Journal of Retailing on Supply Chain Management. We hope you will find the five articles contained in this issue to be both interesting and useful for practitioners and as a springboard for additional research in the area by both marketing and supply chain researchers. The second objective is to provide a framework for examining present and future domains for supply chain research in a networked economy and propose some specific directions for future research in the area. We do not anticipate that our exposition of research topics to be all-inclusive. However, we hope that these issues will stimulate future research. 

 The overview, organized around Figure 1, illustrates that the traditional domain for supply chain research and the province of each of the papers in this Special Issue is the vendor-to-retailer link in the Networked Economy Induced Supply Chain triangle. We expect the vendor-to-retailer link to always be important and ripe with research issues worthy of pursuit. Although certainly not the only Network/Internet issue in this domain, we also examine how new forms of retailer networks develop as a result of the Internet. Since franchising comprises such a large component of retailing, it will be interesting to watch the impact of the networked economy on this and other retailer networks in the future. 

 Supply chain researchers have not traditionally studied the retailer-to-customer side of the triangle in Figure 1. Yet, as a result of the networked economy, several issues have surfaced that we believe will be of increasing importance. Specifically, these are data warehouses/loyalty programs, multiple selling channels, assortment and location issues, third party logistics intermediaries, and reverse logistics. 

 In the section on the vendor-to-customers link in Figure 1, we examine research issues associated with disintermediation and customer orientation. Like the retailer-to-customer link, marketing, rather than supply chain researchers has traditionally studied the interaction between vendors/manufacturers and customers. Today, however, as a result of the networked economy, there are many topics that should keep both camps jointly busy for some time to come. 

 We began this overview by asking the question, Why a special issue of Journal of Retailing on Supply Chain Management? This Journal, like many marketing journals, has a long history of publishing articles on distribution and other channel-related issues. We believe that the research issues consequent to the growth of the networked economy will provide opportunities for scholars from many disciplines to undertake supply chain research for many years to come. 

 Acknowledgment: 

 We would like to thank Neeraj Bharadwaj, Pete Bucklin, Gopal Iyer, and Giao Nguyen for their helpful suggestions on this manuscript, and to Marty Anderson, Mike Fetters, and Bart Weitz for inspiration. This research was supported by a research grant from the Center for Business in a Networked Economy at Babson College. Both authors contributed equally to the paper. 

 Michael Levy is the Charles Clarke Reynolds Professor of Marketing at Babson College, Babson Park, MA (email: mlevy@babson.edu). Dhruv Grewal is the Toyota Chair in E-Commerce and Electronic Business and Professor of Marketing, Babson College. Babson Park, MA. 

 REFERENCES 

 Achabal, Dale D., Shelby H. McIntyre, Stephen A. Smith, and Kirthi Kalyanam. (2000). "A Decision Support System for Vendor Managed Inventory," Journal of Retailing, 76 (Winter): 430-454. 

 Bartels, Robert. (1976). The History of Marketing Thought, 2nd ed., Columbus Ohio: Grid, Inc. 

 Blackwell, Roger D. and Kristina Blackwell. (1999). "The Century of the Consumer: Converting Supply Chains Into Demand Chains," Supply Chain Management Review, (Fall): 22-32. 

 Blattberg, Robert C., and Edward J. Fox. (1995). Category Management, Washington DC: Food Marketing Institute. 

 Cooke, James A. (1998). "VMI: Very Mixed Impact?" Logistics Management & Distribution Report, 31 (December): 51. 

 Crowell, Ranklin. (1901). Report of the Industrial Commission on the Distribution of Farm Products. Washington, D.C.: Government Printing Office. 

 Fisher, Marshall L. (1997). "What is the Right Supply Chain for Your Products?" Harvard Business Review, March-April: 105-116. 

 Fisher, Marshall L., Ananth Raman and Anna Sheen McCelland. (2000), "Rocket Science Retailing is Almost Here: Are You Ready?" Harvard Business Review, July-August: 115-124. 

 Frazier, Gary L. (1999). "Organizing and Managing Channels of Distribution". Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 27 (2): 226-240. 

 Grewal, Dhruv, Kent B. Monroe, and R. Krishnan. (1998). "The Effects of Price Comparison Advertising on Buyers' Perceptions of Acquisition Value and Transaction Value," Journal of Marketing, 62 (April): 46-59. 

 Gruen, Thomas W. and Reshma H. Shah (2000). "Determinants and Outcomes of Plan Objectivity and Implementation in Category Management Relationships," Journal of Retailing, 76 (Winter): 483-510. 

 "Home Depot Tells Vendors to Stay off the 'Net," Industrial Distribution, September 1, 1999: 21. Ingene, Charles A. and Mark E. Parry. (2000). "Is Channel Coordination All It Is Cracked Up To Be?" Journal of Retailing, 76 (Winter): 511-547. 

 Jaworski, Bernard, Ajay K. Kohli, and Arvind Sahay. (2000). "Market-Driven Versus Driving Markets," Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 28 (Winter): 45-54. 

 Kahn, Barbara E. and Leigh McAlister. (1997). Grocery Revolution: The New Focus on the Consumer. Reading MA: Addison-Wesley. 

 Koloszyc, Ginger. (1999). "Supplier/buyer Extranet Simplifies Global Sourcing Process," Stores, (January): 28-30. 

 Lancioni, Richard, Michael F. Smith, and Terence A. Oliva. (2000). "The Role of the Internet in Supply Chain Management," Industrial Marketing Management, 29 (January): 45-56. 

 Langley, C. John Jr, Robert McCauley. Soonhong Min. Nancy Nix, Jeffery Overby, Carlo D. Smith, Zach G. Zacheria. "Logistics Thought: Key Messages and Implications from the Field of Marketing," undated working paper, University of Tennessee. 

 _____. and Mary Holcomb C. (1992) "Creating Logistics Customer Value," Journal of Business Logistics, 13: 1-28. 

 Mentzer, John T., Soonhong Min, and Zach G. Zacharia. (2000). "The Nature of Interfirm Partnering in Supply Chain Management," Journal of Retailing, 76 (Winter): 549-568. 

 Merrefield, David. (1999). "Consumer Direct (Internet is Increasingly Used to Market Consumer Products)," Supermarket News, 1 (February). 

 Myers, Matthew B., Patricia J. Daugherty, and Chad W. Autry (2000). "The Effectiveness of Automatic Inventory Replenishment in Supply-Chain Operations: Antecedents and Outcomes," Journal of Retailing, 76 (Winter): 455-481. 

 Nelson, Emily. (1998). "Why Wal-Mart Sings, 'Yes, We Have Bananas!'" The Wall Street Journal, October, 6: B1-B4. 

 Parasuraman, A. and Dhruv Grewal. (2000a). "Serving Customers and Consumers Effectively in the Twenty-First Century: A Conceptual Framework and Overview," Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 28 (Winter): 9-16. 

 _____. (2000b), "The Impact of Technology on the Quality-Value-Loyalty Chain: A Research Agenda," Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science," 28 (Winter): 168-174. 

 Parks, Liz. (1999). "Transforming the Supply Chain with Technology. Drug Store News, 19 (July): 10. 

 Poirier, Charles C. (1999). Advanced Supply Chain Management, San Francisco, CA: Berret--Koehler Publishers. 

 Rubinson, Aram and Brett Levy. (1999). "E-Commerce Navigator: An Anthology of Web Thoughts," Paine Webber, (October), 39. 

 Sheth, Jagdish N., Rajendra S. Sisodia, and Arun Sharma. (2000), "The Antecedents and Consequences of Customer-Centric Marketing," Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 28 (Winter): 55-66. 

 Simon, Alan R. (1997). Data Warehousing for Dummies, Foster City, CA: IDG Books Worldwide, 12. 

 Slater, Stanley F. and John C. Narver. (2000), "Intelligence Generation and Superior Customer Value," Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 28 (Winter): 120-127. 

 Stock, James R. and Douglas M. Lambert, (2001) Strategic Logistics Management, Burr Ridge, IL: McGraw-Hill/Irwin. 

FULL TEXT

Document jret000020010807dwcm0000j




 Georgia-Pacific Says 4th-Quarter Profit Will Be `Substantially Below' Forecasts 

 By Chad Terhune 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
396 words
22 December 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
C11
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 ATLANTA -- Georgia-Pacific Corp. warned that its fourth-quarter earnings would be "substantially below" Wall Street expectations, due primarily to weaker demand and pricing for lumber. 

 The company's profit warning came as little surprise to Wall Street, after other paper companies have also cut earnings estimates amid a sustained drop in lumber prices. Georgia-Pacific stock rose 25 cents to $28 in 4 p.m. composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The stock's 52-week high is $51.94. 

 A slowdown in housing starts and overproduction after a record-high 1999 have led to sharply lower lumber prices for much of 2000. And analysts don't expect lumber prices to show any signs of improvement until the second quarter of 2001 at the earliest, when housing starts may pick up. 

 "We should see some seasonal pickup in the second quarter," said Linda Lieberman, an analyst at Bear, Stearns & Co. Last week, she cut her fourth-quarter earnings estimate for Georgia-Pacific to 35 cents a share. 

 The company didn't provide any estimate for its revised earnings to be released Jan. 26. Prior to the warning, the consensus estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial was for 58 cents a diluted share in the fourth quarter and $3.64 a share for the year. In the fourth quarter a year ago, Georgia-Pacific had net income of $175 million, or $1 a diluted share, on sales of $5.15 billion. 

 Georgia-Pacific said the weak lumber pricing will lead to the first quarterly loss for its building-products manufacturing division since 1991. That represents a big change from $194 million in fourth-quarter operating profit for that unit a year ago. In 1999, that unit contributed 22% of the company's overall net sales and 72% of operating profit. 

 The company's results will also be affected by plant closures related to the softer demand and sharply higher energy costs at its Bellingham, Wash., tissue mill and other facilities in the western U.S. And, as expected, the company said it will take a fourth-quarter charge, which hasn't been determined, for plant closures and other items related to its recent acquisition of Fort James Corp. 

Document j000000020010807dwcm00w0b




 BRIDGE UPDATE-MAJOR MARKETS - Japan stocks up on Nasdaq rebound. 

565 words
22 December 2000
00:48
FWN Select
FWS
English
(c) 2000

 Dec 21, 2000 (FWN Select via COMTEX) - TOP STORIES: 

 Japan stocks edge up in early AM on Nasdaq re2ound 

 Tokyo-Dec. 22-Japanese stocks climbed back steadily early Friday morning as the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index's rebound overnight encouraged buying of selected oversold high-tech and telecom stocks, traders said. Even so, uncertainties over the Nasdaq's upward momentum limited the Nikkei's rebound. As of 0929 JT, the benchmark Nikkei was up 93.24 points to 13,516.45. ( Story .1105 ) 

 Nasdaq ends slightly higher after 7-day losing streak 

 New York-Dec. 21-The Nasdaq Composite index eked out gains as bottom fishers emerged after a seven-day losing streak. The broader market also rallied although traders were skeptical about the advance, which came in the face of numerous profit warnings. The Nasdaq closed up 7.41, or 0.32%, to 2340.19 and the Dow was up 168.36, or 1.63%, to 10,487.29. ( Story .1300 ) 

 Short-term US Treasuries climb as market expects rate cut

 New York-Dec. 21-Short-term Treasuries climbed in spite of some firmness in stocks as concerns about the equity markets and the economy persisted. But the 30-year bond finished slightly lower as continued hopes for a rate cut by the Federal Reserve favored the front end. The 30-year bond was down 2/32 at a bid of 112 8/32 and yielding 5.405%, while the 10-year note was up 4/32 at a bid of 105 14/32 and yielding 5.015%, the five-year note was up 5/32 at a bid of 103 16/32 and yielding 4.921% and the two-year note was up 3/32 at a bid of 100 27/32 and yielding 5.136%. ( Story .310 ) 

 Dollar trims losses tied to recession fears 

 New York-Dec. 21-The dollar trimmed some overnight losses versus the other majors, but the soft toneof the U.S. equities emphasized ongoing concerns that the domestic economy is facing a rocky road in the first half of 2001. The euro remained firm after climbing to a new four-month high of 91.72 cents, while the dollar struggled to stay off a two-day low of 111.90 yen after stretching to a 16-month high of 113.17 yen in Asia. ( Story .900 ) 

 OF INTEREST: 

 European stocks slide on tech sector worries 

 London-Dec. 21-After opening down following the Nasdaq slump Wednesday, the markets were staged a brief rally until news came from the United States of a profit warning from technology giant Lucent Technologies. Rosy Nasdaq futures slipped into negative territory on the news and the European markets followed suit. The deal of the day was Italy's Eni's $4.8 billion offer for U.K. Lasmo, which at one stage was up nearly 15% on the news. The FTSE-100, Xetra DAX-30, CAC-40, Mibtel and AEX closed moderately lower. ( Story .1150 ) 

 European bonds lower at end of choppy session 

 London-Dec. 21-European bonds were all lower at the end of a choppy session where equities remained the dominant influence. Several leading funds were reported to be taking profits ahead of year-end after a very successful few months for debt instruments. ( Story .337 ) 

 (C) Copyright 2000 FWN 

 . 

Document fws0000020010808dwcm004hc




 Financial Post: Canada 
 Desperate dot-coms scramble for new business models: The sector may not be mature enough to survive a recession 

 Simon Avery 
Financial Post
1,307 words
22 December 2000
National Post
FINP
National
C07
English
 (c) National Post 2000. All Rights Reserved. 

 MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. - The beginnings of today's market turmoil can be traced back to the world of cyberspace, which became one giant, pock-marked artillery zone this year as dot-coms transformed into dot-bombs. 

 The fallout has been well-documented for months, but is actually increasing according to the latest job figures. 

 In November alone, 8,789 people received pink slips from Internet businesses in the United States, according to Challenger, Gray & Christmas, an international outplacement firm. That figure represents a 55% increase over October's record total of 5,677 layoffs, and the sixth consecutive month of increases. The carnage has been spectacular, not just because of the speed with which funding dried up, but also because it has killed or severely wounded some of the best players in the industry, leaving little of value for adventurous investors to pick through. 

 Earlier this week, eToys Inc., widely considered to be one of the best managed dot-coms, warned that sales would fall significantly below expectations and that the company will run out of cash by March without an emergency infusion. The Santa Monica, Calif.-based firm had impressed investors with a market leadership position and one of the best business models in e-tailing. 

 Yet this holiday season, eToys has been unable to increase sales more than 10% over last year's Christmas quarter. The company now expects revenue of only US$120-million to US$130-million, instead of the US$220-million to US$240-million originally forecast. eToys has hired Goldman Sachs to find a potential buyer for the company. 

 Until this latest news, eToys had been considered in the same league as Amazon.com Inc., the mother of all e-tailers. For its part, Amazon.com finds its own value being dragged down by failing competitors. The day after eToys' announcement, Amazon shares fell 13% in sympathy. 

 "Don't throw the baby out with the bath water," Anthony Noto, an analyst with Goldman Sachs, warned his clients in response. "We do not believe [Amazon] will suffer a shortfall similar to other companies," he said. 

 However, no one seems to be willing to bet their reputation at this point on when, and if, Amazon will ever become profitable. Henry Blodget, the senior e-commerce analyst for Merrill Lynch, helped drive Amazon.com into the stratosphere with bullish predictions two years ago. But he is taking a revised look at the whole industry's potential. He originally estimated that e-commerce would comprise 10% to 15% of all retail activity, but is now reconsidering that amount. Investors too have downgraded their growth expectations for e-tailing leaders. 

 Amazon.com's stock price yesterday of US$15 3/16, for example, implies investors are expecting compounded annual growth of less than 30%. That rate is significantly less than the hyper-growth expectations a year ago that briefly drove the share price above US$100 and that would be necessary to capture 10% to 15% of the entire retail market. 

 This holiday shopping season provides e-tailers the chance to bounce back from a year of bad publicity, but early signs suggest consumers aren't spending enough online to reignite the dot-com sector. United Parcel Service Inc. and Fedex Corp., which ship the bulk of e-commerce orders, each issued a profit warning in early December. 

 A recent Goldman Sachs survey of e-commerce firms showed average growth in the e-commerce industry of just 24%, compared with original estimates by the firm of 45%. The slimmer growth prospects are particularly disconcerting given that overall Internet usage in North American has been on the rise throughout the year. Nielsen/NetRatings Inc. reports that 56% of the U.S. population had access to the Internet from home as of November, 2000, up from 43% a year earlier. 

 In addition, e-tailers have generally improved the quality of their services over the last 12 months -- another factor which should be spurring growth. A year ago, a study by Andersen Consulting found up to 25% of attempted online purchases were unsuccessful. 

 Service was so spotty that the Federal Trade Commission investigated and slapped heavy fines on seven e-tailers for failing to deliver on their promises. "Last December, many retailers ended up looking more like Scrooge than Santa," said Jodie Bernstein, director of the FTC's Bureau of Consumer Protection. But this year, the surviving e-tailers have improved their acts immensely. Andersen Consulting's second annual U.S. e-fulfillment study found that 92% of orders are being filled successfully this year. 

 "Online U.S. e-tailers learned from their mistakes last year," said Robert Mann, an associate partner at Andersen. But even as the segment matures, investors are pulling back. Dot-coms cannot find second and third rounds of financing necessary to bring them to profitability, even as overall venture capitalist spending in the United States surged to about US$100-billion this year. 

 That figure is about 20 times greater than the US$5-billion invested in startups in 1995, according to the National Venture Capital Association. 

 The widespread aversion to dot-com investments isn't just limited to fledgling retail sites. Throughout 2000, big names from the traditional economy have hit obstacles online, some of them insurmountable. Film directors Steven Spielberg and Ron Howard, along with Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen, invested millions of their own dollars in Pop.com before watching the online entertainment initiative collapse this year. In the last few days, Stan Lee Media Inc. -- a Web-based entertainment firm founded by the creator of Spider-man, the Fantastic Four and a host of other superheroes -- laid off most of its staff. 

 Despite the well-respected name of Mr. Lee, the Encino, Calif.-based firm simply ran out of funding. Its last hope for US$2.2-million of bridge financing fell through when its shares fell below US$1. Meanwhile, MVP.com, an online sports retailer backed by superstars Wayne Gretzky, Michael Jordan and John Elway, has just chopped its staff of 166 in half and closed two offices because of financial troubles. 

 These high-profile failures point to ongoing doubts about the overall viability of dot-com business models. Some say the very lifeblood of the Internet, advertising dollars, is threatened today by the slowing economy. One of the first expenses companies will cut is their Internet advertising budgets, leaving dot-coms with few options to create revenue, apart from charging for their content. Online ad spending suffered its first quarter to quarter decline ever between July and the end of September, dropping 6.5% to US$1.9-billion, according to a study just released by the Internet Advertising Bureau and PricewaterhouseCoopers. 

 The worry is that if the U.S. Federal Reserve fails to steer the economy into a soft landing, it risks crushing the dot-com world before the sector is mature enough to survive a recession. 

 "People are not willing to spend a single dollar to get content on the Internet, yet they risk being compelled to use a pay-per-view model," says Tejinder Singh, managing director of Reliance Capital Management, an investment firm in New York. Mr. Singh says imposing a pay-per-view model on the Internet would be a profound structural change that would cause long-lasting "psychological damage" to the Internet user. 

 "A recession threatens everything," he says bluntly. "The question still remains today: Who is going to pay for the Internet?" 

savery@nationalpost.com

 Black & White Photo: The Internet firm of Spider-man creator Stan Lee has been forced to lay off most of its staff in recent days. 

Document finp000020010806dwcm0123x




 Ford Shares Fall on  Profit Warning 

 By JUSTIN HYDE 
AP Auto Writer
687 words
22 December 2000
AP Online
ASP
English
 Copyright 2000 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. 

 DETROIT (AP) - Shares of Ford Motor Co. fell nearly 6 percent Friday after the automaker lowered estimates for fourth-quarter earnings and said it will cut production next month with a series of plant shutdowns at 16 North American factories affecting thousands of workers. 

 Ford's move, announced late Thursday, follows similar production cuts and earnings warnings from General Motors Corp. and DaimlerChrysler AG, all of which have found themselves stuck with thousands of extra vehicles amid falling demand for new cars and trucks in the United States. 

 "It's clear that U.S. economic growth is slowing, and surveys of consumer sentiment point to lower levels of spending in the future," Martin Inglis, vice president of Ford North America, said in a statement. 

 Ford said it was cutting production by 9 percent from its previous plan; total output for the first quarter of 2001 is now expected to total just over 1 million vehicles, a 17 percent reduction over the same period this year. 

 The shutdowns will affect one plant the week of Jan. 1, three plants the week of Jan. 8, 13 plants the week of Jan. 22 and three plants the week of Jan. 28. The week of Jan. 22, about 36,000 workers in the United States, Canada and Mexico will be idle. 

 U.S. workers will get about 95 percent of their pay while idle, while Canadian workers will get 65 percent. 

 Inglis said Ford was making its production cuts now to stay ahead of falling demand, and that the company would "assess the economic picture again before the spring selling season." 

 Ford also warned that earnings for the fourth quarter of this year would be down 10 cents a share, or roughly $190 million, below analyst estimates of 74 cents a share. 

 Ford spokesman George Pipas said severe winter weather in the midwestern United States and Canada caused delays in workers and parts getting to plants on time, which cut 26,000 vehicles from Ford's fourth-quarter plan. Like other automakers, Ford relies on "just-in-time" delivery of parts, and keeps inventories low. 

 "We either had to cancel or reduce shifts," Pipas said. "In most of our midwestern plants, we lost partial days of production." 

 Pipas said the missed production hurt Ford's revenues in the fourth quarter, but also decreased the number of vehicles Ford had to cut from first quarter production. 

 Ford also said a parts shortage in Europe cut into profits there. 

 Investors responded by pushing shares of Ford down $1.38, or almost 6 percent, to close at $22.81 Friday on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Inglis and other Ford executives have said they would prefer to cut production as the U.S. economy slows than be forced to use higher customer rebates and more cut-rate loans to move cars. 

 But just a week ago, Inglis said Ford would likely handle production cuts without widespread shutdowns by eliminating overtime. That could be a sign that the industry sales are falling off faster than anticipated, said analyst David Healy with Burnham Securities. 

 "I think they got a better look at December sales," Healy said. "I think they're reacting to what looks like a very weak sales month and inventory at dealers which is too high to support the sales rate." 

 Healy estimates that December sales for the industry will be down 10 percent, with Ford down 16 percent in cars and 12 percent in trucks. 

 Pipas said Ford's inventories would be sufficient for the next couple of months, but that Ford was trying to stay ahead of declining consumer demand. 

 "What we're trying to do is work inventory levels off where at the end of the first quarter we're not trying to dig out of a ditch," he said. "We're trying to anticipate what's happening." 

 While GM and the Chrysler arm of DaimlerChrysler have also idled plants and cut inventory, neither has set a plant schedule beyond the first week of January. 

AP-Ford-Outlook; D791TE1G0

Document asp0000020010804dwcm02uoj




 US GIANT'S ALARM CALL HAS TELECOMS TUMBLING ... 

610 words
21 December 2000
The Evening Standard
NS
English
(c) 2000

 US GIANT'S ALARM CALL HAS TELECOMS TUMBLING BY MICHAEL CLARKThe telecom sector was ringing all the wrong numbers for City investors today in the wake of yesterday's profits warning from giant US telecoms operator American Telephone & Telegraph.Hapless British Telecom briefly dipped below 600p, touching 596p before reducing the deficit to 14p at 608p. There were also losses for Vodafone, down 33/4p at 2411/4p, Colt Telecom, off 46p to 1429p, Cable & Wireless, adrift 14p to 908p, and Kingston Communications, shedding 91/2p to 220p. AT&T has again lowered its growth forecast and slashed its quarterly payout to shareholders by more than 80%. The move shocked the financial markets and sent out alarm signals to the rest of the industry.The high levels of debt that many telecom companies are struggling under has alarmed the banks. At the last count, BT's overdraft was heading towards #30 billion. 

  It is feared that if one company goes under, it could create a domino effect.The rest of the equity market was again on the slide today after another abysmal performance overnight by Wall Street and the hi-tech Nasdaq market. The FTSE 100 index fell 61.9 to 6114.8. This week's warning from the Federal Reserve about the US economy sliding into recession continues to ring in punters' ears. Brokers point out that major companies have been issuing profit warnings on a daily basis during the past three months and the Fed should have acted sooner.Lasmo responded to news of the agreed counterbid from Eni with a leap of 24p to 201p. The Italian oil giant is offering 200p a share, valuing Lasmo at #2.69 billion. The bid tops a previous offer of 125p a share from American oil exploration group Amerada Hess. More than 160 million Lasmo shares changed hands as Eni's brokers raided the market looking to snap up 25% of company. It now remains to be seen whether Amerada Hess will be prepared to top the offer from Eni. Rival Enterprise Oil, which has failed several times to merge with Lasmo, firmed 141/2p to 563p. It is still seen as vulnerable to takeover following this year's dramatic rise in the price of oil on world markets.Hepworth climbed 27p to 280p on receipt of a bid approach. German group Vaillant is making an agreed offer of 285p a share, valuing the building supplies group at #692 million. Hepworth said in October that it had received a number of bid approaches.But the wet weather has been taking a heavy toll of the rest of the sector. RMC fell 15p to 540p after issuing a profits warning. The concrete maker said trading conditions had become worse in the second half and blamed bad weather in this country and in Germany. RMC recently sold its Great Mills DIY subsidiary for #285 million.Aggregate Industries ran into profit-taking, falling 21/4p to 771/4p. The shares charged higher in a falling market yesterday on revived talk of a bid. Attempts to merge with rival Tarmac several years ago ended in failure. Brokers say there has been heavy turnover in the shares and a further two million changed hands during the first hour of trading today. Blue-blooded broker Cazenove is known to be a supporter of the shares.A warning also took a heavy toll of BPP Holdings, leaving the shares 1971/2p down at 470p. The education and training specialist says that pre-tax profits would not be less than the #14.1 million seen last year. 

Document ns00000020010815dwcl00626




 UPDATE 11-Tech sector batters U.S. stocks. 

 By Haitham Haddadin 
1,100 words
21 December 2000
00:24
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 20 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks were bloodied on Wednesday, as the technology-heavy Nasdaq went on a gut-wrenching dive to a 21-month low on recession worries, corporate earnings warnings, and downgrades on high-tech stalwarts like Cisco Systems and IBM. 

 Investors dumped high-tech stocks in a deep and wide sell-off but the mauling stretched to blue chips as well, a day after the U.S. Federal Reserve warned the U.S. economy risked facing further slowdown. 

 The Nasdaq Composite Index .IXIC) plunged 178.94 points, or 7.12 percent, at 2,332.77, its worst close since March 1999. Nasdaq, which had its seventh down day in a row, is now off more than 53 percent from its March 10 closing peak at 5,048.62. 

 It was the seventh largest decline ever for the composite in percentage terms. In points, the drop did not make the top 10 list. 

 A fresh batch of corporate profit warnings, including one from International Paper Co., the world's largest paper company, came on top of downgrades on high-profile technology companies like Web infrastructure company Cisco Systems and International Business Machines, the world's largest computer company. 

 "Confidence is being trimmed back by the combustible combination of a slowing U.S. economy, earnings disappointments and the Fed's inability to lower interest rates immediately," said Alan Ackerman, market strategist, Fahnestock and Co. "The mood is glum and perplexing." 

 The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average .DJI) fell 265.44 points, or 2.51 percent, at 10,318.93 while the broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index .SPX) shed 40.86 points, or 3.13 percent, at 1,264.74, its worst level in more than a year. 

 The outlook for U.S. stocks worsened in extended hours trading on Wednesday, after long-distance cable and television giant AT&T issued yet another warning of slower-than-expected revenue growth and announced it was slashing its dividend for the first time in its 100-year history. Shares fell further to $17-1/2 on the Instinet electronic brokerage system, after closing down nearly 8 percent, at $18-15/16. 

 During the regular session, investors were spooked after one of Wall Street's leading brokerages, Merrill Lynch, soured on IBM and computer boxmaker Hewlett-Packard Co., cutting their investment ratings and warning clients it saw companies buying fewer computer systems from them. 

 Shares of both IBM and H-P fell sharply on the New York Stock Exchange, hitting new 52-week lows at $84-13/16 and $29-7/16, respectively, and weighing down heavily on the 30-company Dow gauge. IBM closed $4-1/8 lower at $86 and H-P 7/8 at $30-7/16. 

 Cisco Systems led Nasdaq's fall. The Internet gear maker, which was Nasdaq's most actively traded issue, touched a fresh year low of $35-45/64 for a decline of over 13 percent after Merrill Lynch cut its investment rating, blaming a slowdown in technology spending. 

 Cisco closed $5-1/4 off at $36-1/2, and the selling hit the stocks of other sectoral firms like Network Appliance and Juniper Network, sending the S&P Computer Networking index .SPLANS) down more than 12 percent. 

 Media stocks, both traditional players like Time Warner and Internets like InfoSpace Inc., were among the worst performing groups. But the selling was indiscriminate, hitting the shares of software companies, computer networkers, telecommunications, computer makers and semiconductor issues. Trade volume was extremely heavy, with 2.78 billion shares changing hand on Nasdaq. 

 The brave-hearted buyers who ventured into the stock market bet on defensive utilities and pharmaceutical stocks, which are among the year's good performers. 

 Buying on the dips is quickly becoming a market myth; as many stocks show little bounce and keep making new lows, Fahnestock's Ackerman said. "It's a time for people to keep cash and remain cautious," he noted. 

 The tech sector again bore the brunt of the selling as many stocks remain overvalued, despite their pullback from year-highs, especially considering the likelihood of economic slowdown, analysts said. Some 926 stocks hit new lows for the year on Nasdaq, where four stocks fell for each one that rose. 

 "We are having a revaluation of (price-to-earnings) multiples, led by the technology sector," said Joseph DeMarco, managing director of equity trading at HSBC Asset Management Americas, with about $12 billion in assets under management. 

 "The momentum certainly is carrying forward from yesterday after the expectations of a Fed cut in rates were not met. But more importantly, the market is just focusing on what appears to be a slower economy." 

 The Fed on Tuesday left short-term interest rates unchanged, but signaled its readiness to cut them in future to stop the economy from moving into a recession. 

 The U.S. central bank laid out a "laundry list of what is wrong with the patient," brokerage Bear Stearns told clients in a note: eroding consumer confidence, a drag on demand from profits, rising energy costs, shortfalls in sales and earnings - all of which suggest economic growth might be slowing further. 

 International Paper Co., a Dow component, edged down $1-7/8 to $37-5/8 on the New York Stock Exchange. The world's largest paper and wood products company said earnings would fall below estimates, partly because of rising energy costs. 

 A profit warning came from Siliconix Inc., a maker of specialty integrated circuits, on Tuesday. Its shares shed $4-15/16 at $20-1/2, a decline of over 19 percent. 

 Networking equipment maker Foundry Networks Inc. plunged 57 percent, or $17-5/8, to $13 on Nasdaq after warning earnings would lag estimates due to a shift in spending on communications infrastructure. The stock, which slid to a new 52-week low of $12-1/16, had a year high of $212. 

 Jabil Circuits Inc., a leading contract electronics manufacturer, skidded 22 percent, after posting disappointing profits, while Extreme Networks Inc. lost $14-1/16 to $34-1/2 after SG Cowen cut its rating, saying shares of the computer networking company seemed overvalued and would be hurt by a slowing economy. 

 "Every day you are getting new downgrades and (target) price cuts that add fuel to the downside fire," said Arnie Owen, managing director of capital markets at Roth Capital Partners. "It's end-of-season tax selling and at the same time you have earnings fears." 

Document lba0000020010821dwcl09gtb




 Home Depot offers unusual 10 pct storewide discount. 

 By Karen Jacobs 
441 words
21 December 2000
20:57
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 ATLANTA, Dec 21 (Reuters) - Home Depot Inc. , among a number of U.S. retailers hard hit by a slowdown in consumer spending, said on Thursday it was offering customers 10 percent off most purchases made through Dec. 24. 

 Atlanta-based Home Depot, the No. 1 home-improvement retailer, said the unusual discount applied to purchases at its approximately 1,000 stores in the United States and Canada. 

 "We're doing it as a way to thank our customers and wish them a happy holiday," said Home Depot spokeswoman Carol Schumacher, who added that the company had placed newspaper and radio ads throughout North America touting the sale. She noted that the move may help Home Depot sell slow-moving items. 

 Home Depot's main rival, Wilkesboro, N.C.-based Lowe's Cos. Inc. , quickly matched the discount, offering its own 10-percent sale on all purchases of in-stock merchandise at its 638 stores in the United States. 

 Douglas Gordon, a Banc of America Securities analyst in San Francisco, said he was surprised by the Home Depot discounting, though he doubted whether the move would enjoy wide success since some retailers were offering much larger discounts. 

 "I think they are trying to stimulate sales, and obviously the corresponding impact would be to clean out some inventory," said Gordon, who added that U.S. retail stocks had posted solid gains on Thursday. 

 In late afternoon New York Stock Exchange trading, Home Depot shares rose $2-11/16, or almost 7 percent, to $43-7/8. 

 Lowe's rose $1-13/16, or 4.5 percent, to $42-1/16 on the NYSE. 

 Leading U.S. retailer Wal-Mart Stores Inc. jumped $2-10/16, or 5.4 percent, to $51-9/16 on the NYSE. 

 Most major retailers have seen holiday sales growth slow from last year as consumers, coping with falling stock markets, a cooling U.S. economy and a spike in home heating costs, cut back on spending. 

 Industry forecasts pegged same-store sales growth in November and December between 2.5 and 5 percent this year, compared with a year-ago figure of about 7 percent. 

 In October, Home Depot said it would fall short of its target of 23 to 25 percent per-share earnings growth target for 2000, mainly because of slowing sales from falling lumber and building material prices. 

 The profit warning prompted a sharp sell-off of its shares. 

 Earlier this month, Home Depot named Robert Nardelli, the former head of General Electric Co.'s power systems unit, as its new chief executive officer. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcl09dt0




 U.S. stocks climb, techs stage  cautious  comeback. 

 By Denise Duclaux 
793 words
21 December 2000
17:45
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 21 (Reuters) - Technology shares bounced back in midday trading on Thursday as investors crossed their fingers that the battered sector had scraped bottom, one day after the tech-stacked Nasdaq composite index skidded to its lowest close since March 1999. 

 "The market is oversold," said Richard Cripps, chief market strategist at Legg Mason Wood Walker. "We are going to have these very significant rallies, but the question is: 'Does it hold?'" 

 The Nasdaq rose 50.97 points, or 2.18 percent, to 2,383.75, after tumbling more than 7 percent on Wednesday. Cisco Systems Inc., the world's No. 1 maker of gear that powers the Internet, led the index higher, with a gain of $2-13/16 at $39-5/16 after sliding to a 52-week low on Wednesday. 

 "We are seeing a jittery market that is for sure, but at least the bleeding has stopped for now," said Peter Coolidge, managing director of equity trading at Brean Murray & Co. "There is a lot of nervousness and there has been a lot of capitulation of late." 

 The Dow Jones industrial average jumped 116.41 points, or 1.13 percent, to 10,435.34. Many investors still opted for the relative stability of Old Economy companies like J.P. Morgan & Co., soft drink company Coca-Cola Co. and retail powerhouse Wal-Mart Stores Inc.. All three helped boost the blue-chip gauge. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index gained 12.08 points, or 0.96 percent, at 1,276.82, after hitting its lowest level in more than a year on Wednesday. 

 Investors remained cautious after telecom giants Lucent Technologies Inc. and AT&T Corp. added their voices to a chorus of corporate earnings warnings in an economic pullback. 

 Fresh economic data boosted hopes that Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan would throw a lifeline to the battered market and cut interest rates soon. 

 The Commerce Department revised down its estimate of growth in gross domestic product - the measure of total goods and services produced within U.S. borders - as the economy expanded at its slowest pace in four years during the third quarter. 

 Vice President-elect Dick Cheney said there was clear evidence of a slowdown under way in the economy, but added he was not sure whether a recession was on the horizon. 

 President-elect George W. Bush and Cheney have evoked the possibility of a sharp slowdown, saying this was an argument for enacting the president-elect's $1.3 trillion proposed tax cut. 

 A profit and revenue warning from telecom giant AT&T pushed its stock down $2 to $16-15/16 on the New York Stock Exchange. The Dow component had touched its lowest point since 1991 at $16-9/16 early in the session. 

 Telecom equipment maker Lucent lost $1-7/16 to $14-1/16 on the New York Stock Exchange. Lucent slid as low as $12-3/16, hitting its lowest on a split-adjusted basis since January 1997, nine months after it was spun-off from AT&T. 

 "I think the fact that you had the Lucent and the telephone problems starting the day off ... stocks have gotten down to levels that are reflecting the worst," said Barry Berman, head Nasdaq trader at Robert W. Baird & Co., explaining Nasdaq's dip into negative territory early in the session. 

 Hewlett-Packard Co. staged a comeback after the Dow component fell on an investment downgrade on Wednesday. The computer maker rose $1-3/8 to $31-13/16. 

 Intel Corp., the world's No. 1 chip maker, jumped $1-13/16 to $33-3/4 - lifting both the Dow and the Nasdaq. 

 Microsoft Corp., the world's largest software company, gained $1-3/4 to $43-1/4. The Dow component and Nasdaq heavyweight said it would buy software maker Great Plains Software Inc. for $1.1 billion. Great Plains jumped $11-3/8 to $46-11/16. 

 But Palm Inc., the No. 1 maker of hand-held electronic organizers, tumbled more than 26 percent, or $10-1/8, to $28. The company doubled its sales in the second quarter, edging past Wall Street estimates without delivering the revenue breakout some investors had hoped for. 

 Modem chip maker Conexant Systems Inc. lost $5-1/2 to $14-7/8 after warning it expects lower-than-anticipated quarter due to a slowdown in worldwide demand for its personal networking products. 

 Clothing maker Quiksilver Inc. dropped more than 23 percent, or $5-1/4, to $16-3/4 after warning earnings would land below analysts' forecasts based on the outlook for foreign currency exchange rates. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcl09cw9


 Evening Standard, London, Market Report Column 

 Lachlan Colquhoun 
607 words
21 December 2000
KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Evening Standard - London
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 US GIANT'S ALARM CALL HAS TELECOMS TUMBLING: The telecoms sector was ringing all the wrong numbers for City investors today as a conflicting picture on the state of the industry emerged in the US. 

 Giant US operator American Telephone & Telegraph came out with a profits warning overnight that shocked the financial markets and pushed share prices sharply lower at the outset. But this morning Quest, another US telecoms operator, helped share prices in London claw back early losses by claiming that it was trading ahead of expectations. Hapless British Telecom briefly dipped below 600 pence, touching 596 pence before reducing the deficit to 161/2 pence at 605 1/2 pence. 

 There were losses for Cable & Wireless, adrift 7 pence to 915 pence, and TelecomPlus, 5 pence down at 158 1/2 pence. AT&T started the rot by lowering its growth forecast and slashing its quarterly payout to shareholders by more than 80 percent . The high levels of debt that many telecom companies are struggling under has alarmed the banks. At the last count, BT's overdraft was heading towards UKpound 30 billion. It is feared that if one company goes under, it could create a domino effect. 

 The rest of the equity market staged a fierce rearguard action helped by that upbeat trading statement from Quest which enabled the FTSE 100 index to reduce an early 84-point fall to 15.7 at 6161. 

 This followed another abysmal performance overnight by Wall Street and the hi-tech Nasdaq market. This week's warning from the Federal Reserve about the US economy sliding into recession continues to ring in punters' ears. Brokers point out that major companies have been issuing profit warnings on a daily basis during the past three months and the Fed should have acted sooner. 

 Reuters fell 45 pence to 1147 pence. US securities house Goldman Sachs is not impressed with the group's decision to rein in its investment in Instinet.com and has duly moved it from its recommended list to "market outperform". It is also looking to downgrade its 1600 pence target price to between 1000 pence and 1200 pence. 

 Lasmo responded to news of the agreed counter-bid from Eni with a leap of 231/4 pence to 20 1/4 pence. More than 240 million Lasmo shares changed hands as Eni's brokers raided the market looking to snap up 25 percent of company. It now remains to be seen whether existing bidder Amerada Hess will be prepared to top Eni's offer. 

 Rival Enterprise Oil, which has failed several times to merge with Lasmo, firmed 161/2 pence to 565 pence. It is still seen as vulnerable to takeover following this year's dram- atic rise in the price of oil on world markets. 

 Aggregate Industries rallied from an early bout of profit-taking, firming 1/4 pence to 793/4 pence. The shares charged higher in a falling market yesterday on revived talk of a bid. Attempts to merge with rival Tarmac several years ago ended in failure. 

 Brokers say there has been heavy turnover in the shares and a further two million changed hands during the first hour of trading today. Blue-blooded broker Cazenove is known to be a supporter of the shares. 

 Cyberes made its debut on AIM following a placing of shares at 56 pence. The price later traded as 55 pence. Environmental Polymers also made its debut on AIM after moving up from Ofex. The shares started trading at 16 1/2 pence before touching 17 1/4 pence. 

Document krtbn00020010808dwcl004hl




 Markets Selloff Is a Symptom Of Major Economies Slowing --- Few Believe Downturn Will Be Severe Or That World Economy Is Entering Recession --- `This Is a Global Industrial Slowdown'   

 By staff reporters James R. Hagerty, Sara Calian and Michael R. Sesit   
2,905 words
21 December 2000
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
1
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

 When the U.S. Federal Reserve decided to keep its high-interest-rate policy in place in early October, it relied partly on its staff forecast that the U.S. would get help from overseas to offset its slowing growth. The Fed believed that "brisk growth abroad would boost the expansion of U.S. exports for some period ahead."   

 Just a month earlier, the International Monetary Fund gave the global economy a relatively clean bill of health: "Growth is projected to increase in all major regions of the world, led by the continued strength of the U.S. economy, the robust upswing in Europe, the consolidation of the recovery in Asia and the rebound from last year's slowdown in emerging markets."   

 Great minds, it seems, also err alike. With a suddenness that has surprised economists and corporate chieftains, the world's leading economies are all slowing in concert.   

 U.S., Europe and Japan each saw growth rates decline in the third quarter. U.S. and foreign stock markets sold off sharply Wednesday, amid continuing disappointment about corporate earnings and the Federal Reserve's decision not to lower interest rates. Most economists are cutting 2001 forecasts for overall global growth almost as fast as their computers can process the data. And what was at first a concern about mature markets has now spilled over to the developing world. Latin America, where growth has been strong, could be beset by rapidly declining exports to the U.S. There are worries about credit-worthiness in Argentina and Turkey that smack of a scaled-down version of the Asian financial crisis of 1997. Currency markets in Asia have signaled their jitters by driving down foreign-exchange values to levels unseen since the crisis.   

 "This is a global industrial slowdown," says Anervan Banerji, director of research at the Economic Cycle Research Institute in New York.   

 Few economists believe that the downturn will be severe or that the world economy is entering recession. Indeed, the latest projections by the World Bank say world growth will slow to a respectable 3.4% in 2001 from this year's estimated 4.1% And some economists believe a healthy dose of interest-rate cuts and lower oil prices can quickly get world growth back on track. The Fed on Tuesday changed its view of what constitutes the main threat to the U.S. economy had shifted from overheating to slower growth, signaling possible rates cuts in the months ahead.   

 But for many U.S. and foreign companies, the pressing problem may not be the depth of the global downturn but its width -- a reflection of the increasing ties across global markets and the greater likelihood that what affects one will affect all. As in the 1998 crisis, the causes of this slowdown -- rising interest rates, higher oil prices and slumping financial markets -- have all been global rather than local phenomena.   

 At the center of this global macroeconomic village stands the U.S., whose GDP accounts for almost 30% of world output, up from 26% in 1992. U.S. companies now make up almost half of all world corporate profits, which is a 33% increase from a decade ago, according to Jeff Applegate, chief investment strategist at Lehman Bros.   

 At the same time, the 1990s' mantra of globalization has made U.S. corporations more dependent than ever on overseas revenue. The average company in the Dow Jones Industrial Average now derives about 40% of its revenue from outside the U.S., up from 35% in 1988, according to Ed Keon, director of quantitative research at Prudential Securities New York.   

 In its recent pre-earnings warning of shortfalls in revenue and profits, Microsoft named slowing world growth as a prime culprit -- joining a torrent of earnings warnings from top-tier companies that blamed the global slowdown. "We did not anticipate the rate of deceleration in the world economy that we're now seeing," Microsoft Chief Financial Officer John Connors said. About 31% of Microsoft's $5.8 billion (6.49 billion euros) in revenue comes from Europe, Asia, the Middle East and Africa.   

 Because of this "greater global interdependency," as Mr. Keon terms it, even modest changes in growth can have a big impact if the changes are widespread. That's why former Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers used several opportunities when addressing leaders of the industrialized world to urge them to get their houses in order before a U.S. slowdown arose. "The world economy cannot fly on a single engine," Mr. Summers said in 1999, when asked about the greatest risk facing global economic growth.   

 The seeds of the current downturn were sown by the vigorous expansion of 1999 and the first half of 2000, which sparked concern that supercharged growth could ignite inflationary pressures. The U.S. Federal Reserve was the first to act. In six increases over a year, it raised interest rates by 1.75 percentage points.   

 When the Fed talks, central banks around the world listen, especially those with currencies linked to the dollar. Other banks began raising their own rates. Even the Bank of Japan, where growth was the most fragile of all, added 0.25 percentage points to its bank rate. The European Central Bank, concerned about its new-born euro and potential inflation, added 2.25 percentage points to its bellwether interest rate during the course of six increases. Mr. Banerji argues that the Federal Reserve's interest-rate increases put pressure on the ECB to raise rates, since higher U.S. interest rates further strengthened the dollar.   

 What blindsided the world's top bankers apparently was the persistence of high oil prices, which were buttressed by strong world growth. (The IMF recently lowered its forecasts for world growth, citing crude-oil prices.) Consumer demand took a hit from prices at the pump as well as a reduced wealth effect from swooning stock markets. The prospect of slower growth, in turn, generated fears about corporate credit-quality, and bond markets began demanding higher interest rates on corporate debt. Companies found difficulty securing new capital as bankers raised credit standards. The free-fall in many world stock markets, led by the Nasdaq Stock Market, made new equity issues unattractive. The technology bubble burst, creating what one economist called a global "tech-wreck."   

 Jupiter Telecommunications, Japan's largest cable-television provider that is partly owned by AT&T Corp. Liberty Media Group and Microsoft, recently canceled an initial public offering of its stock that had been expected to raise some $500 million for expansion. Jupiter executives attributed the cancellation to the "volatility in the market and overall erosion" of share values. The executives noted that a Japanese satellite-TV operator, immediately after its IPO in October, was trading at 50% of its offering price.   

 By the time the fall arrived, the impact of the interest-rate increases, which can take a year or more to begin slowing the economy, began to register. The annualized U.S. third-quarter growth of 2.4% was a marked drop from the 5.7% recorded in the second quarter, and the fourth quarter is expected to be equally sluggish. Growth in Europe has slowed to 2.8% in the third quarter from 3.2% in the second. Japan's Economic Planning Agency reported recently that growth in the world's second-largest economy slowed to an annual rate of just 1% in the third quarter. Worse, it revised the strong second-quarter growth figure of 4.2% to 1% as well, suggesting that the nation could be entering its fourth major economic slowdown in a decade. Growth in the rest of Asia is also slowing.   

 Did the world's central banks overdo it? Stephen Roach, international economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, argues that the Fed's recent talk of easing "is an implicit admission that if they had to do it all over again, they might not have gone as far."   

 It was late September when Eastman Kodak Co. executives noticed mounting but inexplicable signs of trouble in their business. To the New York maker of cameras and film, the world's shutterbugs abruptly seemed to stop clicking in unison. "The thing that's amazing is how fast, all of a sudden, it happened," Kodak's chief financial officer, Robert Brust, told analysts when the company rushed out its September earnings warning.   

 August had been a stellar month for the company and it seemed on its way to a sixth straight quarter of growth. Kodak knew the U.S. eventually would slow. It didn't expect trouble abroad, however. "What the company had been banking on was a growing portfolio of emerging markets growing at a double-digit clip to make up for the some of the weakness in mature markets," says Ben Reitzes, imaging-technology analyst at UBS Warburg in New York.   

 By October, when Kodak released a flat earnings report and guided analysts' earnings forecasts lower for the fourth quarter, Kodak had figured out what went wrong. Pricing pressure and slower growth in most of its major markets were behind the downturn. Retailers began cutting inventory and the manufacturing process began to back up.   

 The most serious headwinds of all seemed to be coming from Europe, where rising oil prices, a sinking currency and rising interest rates were taking the luster off what for a time was a much-awaited acceleration in European growth. In July, Wim Duisenberg, president of the European Central Bank, scoffed at any concerns that the expected U.S. slowdown could drag Europe down with it, calling it "a weak wind" that the European economy could easily withstand. Looking back at the data now, economists believe European growth probably had peaked two months before his remarks. Growth in the 11 countries that make up the euro zone slowed to an annualized 2.8% in the third quarter from a peak in this cycle of 3.9% in the fourth quarter of 1999.   

 The ECB expects growth of between 3.2% and 3.6% in the euro zone for 2000. In a new staff forecast -- the first to be made public under a new policy -- issued Wednesday, the bank said it expects growth in Europe to "decline slightly" next year "but to remain strong."   

 "The landscape is changing very fast and it's clear that Euroland is not immune," says Ellen van der Gulik, European economist in the London office of J.P. Morgan. Ms. van der Gulik recently cut her forecast for euro-zone growth by half a percentage point or more for each of the next three quarters as a result of weakening U.S. data. She is particularly worried about the effect on European exports from slowing growth outside of the Continent, which she says will "hit harder than the 1994 Mexican crisis and the 1998 emerging-market crisis."   

 Around the time when Kodak was noticing its slowdown, auto executives in Europe were becoming concerned, too. Auto-parts giant Valeo SA, on the strength of optimistic auto-sales forecasts, in the summer ratcheted up its operating-margin targets for 2000. But within two months, the Paris-based company was forced to issue a profit warning, blaming higher costs for raw materials and slowing demand in the U.S. "Our traditional customers are decreasing their investment," Andre Navarri, chief executive officer of Valeo, complained in a conference call to analysts in October.   

 Glaverbel SA, a Brussels-based glassmaker that supplies windows to the auto and housing industry, had such strong demand in the first half of the year that it resorted to buying product from competitors. But after business began slowing in September, especially in Germany, Chairman Luc Willame says he began cutting jobs, targeting as many as 1,000 positions from Glaverbel's work force of 12,000. The company is holding off on investment plans, he adds.   

 European auto analysts, who had been expecting car sales to rise this year, now expect a decline, led by an estimated 9% drop in Germany compared with last year, according to Schroder Salomon Smith Barney.   

 While the slowdown in Europe was picking up pace in the summer, Asia's tiger economies were beginning to show signs of stress. Until last spring, the region appeared to be recovering from the financial crisis of 1998. Asia's economies were growing between 5% and 10%, currencies had stabilized, interest rates remained low and governments appeared intent on weeding out bad loans and bad companies.   

 Much of the rebound, however, was built on exports to the U.S., especially electronics. As Americans snapped up PCs, laptops and cell phones, Asian exporters rushed to fill demand -- from Taiwanese semiconductor chips to Malaysian memory boards to PCs assembled in the Philippines. Now, that demand -- and the main source of Asia's hard currency -- is slowing. Taiwan's Mosel Vitelic, which makes memory chips, recently slashed its profit estimates for this year 55% because of weak PC demand. Sales of disk drives from Singapore fell 15.7% in October.   

 Already hobbled by a decline in consumer spending and rising oil prices, Southeast Asia saw its troubles deepened by political problems, especially in Thailand, the Philippines and Indonesia. General Motors Corp., which opened a $500 million assembly plant in Thailand this year, just scaled back its estimates of Thai auto sales for 2000 by 10% because of slowing demand. Soft-drink bottler Coca-Cola Amatil reported a 2% drop in volume in the Philippines for the first nine months of 2000 due to sagging consumer confidence. Weaker currencies have pinched companies like Indonesia's PT Indofood Sukses Makmur, the noodle-making giant that recently reported a sharp drop in profits in the first nine months because of higher raw-material costs and foreign debt.   

 The most worrisome signals, however, have just recently come out of Japan with the new, lower growth estimates. Among the problems is slowing exports to the U.S. While exports rose 2.8% in October, that was the smallest increase in 15 months, according to HSBC Securities. Slower economic growth in the U.S. helped pull exports to that country down 3%, the second straight monthly decline and biggest drop in 18 months. Slower growth in Europe pulled exports to that part of the world down 6%, the biggest drop in more than a year. Exports to the rest of Asia remain a bright spot -- up 10% in October -- but HSBC expects that slower growth in America and Europe will eventually undermine those exports as well. The reason: Much of what Japan sends to Asia is used to make products destined eventually for the U.S. and Europe.   

 Japanese companies that have benefited most from the strong U.S. economy are already sending out warning signals. Nissan Motor Co., for example, got a big boost from U.S. sales in the six months ended in September. But Carlos Ghosn, the company's president, cites the U.S. market as one of the big risks to the company's strong performance. "The prospect that the whole U.S. market will soften is very likely," he says.   

 Electronics giant Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. recently announced plans to close 30 of its 247 world-wide plants in the face of weak profits.   

 Concerns about slower growth in the U.S. are already undermining the Japanese economy in other ways as foreign investors pull money out of Japanese stocks to cover losses in their U.S. portfolios. The stock-market declines, in turn, threaten a key source of earnings for Japanese banks, which badly need proceeds from stock sales to finance their writeoffs of bad loans.   

 But banks' unrealized gains on their stockholdings are falling. Chuo Mitsui Trust & Banking Co. had an unrealized loss of 53 billion yen (527.1 million euros) on its securities portfolio as of the end of September.   

 There are, of course, both regional and global optimists. "Our view is that the world economy is slowing mainly because the U.S. is slowing but that it still looks quite robust and quite positive as far ahead as the world can see," said C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Institute for International Economics.   

 But the optimistic view generally relies on a sharp decline in oil prices in the months ahead as well as central-bank interest-rate cuts and government stimulus in both Europe and the U.S. Those may well occur, as signaled Tuesday by the Federal Reserve. But the transition from high to, at best, moderate growth is "usually uneven and bumpy," says Mr. Roach of Morgan Stanley. Countries become "vulnerable to recession (because) they are growing at a pace that is not too far away from their stall speed." Mr. Roach has been busy cutting his global growth forecasts over the past two months. "The risk right now would fall short of a full-blown recession," he says. "Nevertheless, it's a close call."   

 ---   

 Bill Spindle in Tokyo contributed to this article.   

 (See related article: "Markets Selloff Is a Symptom Of Major Economies Slowing --- Nasdaq Falls 7.12% As Retreat Persists Over Fed's Inaction --- Technology and Telecoms Led the European Decline" -- WSJE Dec. 21, 2000)   

Document wsje000020010814dwcl00k4p




 Business; Financial Desk 
 BRIEFS RealNetworks Cuts Sales Forecast 

Bloomberg News
157 words
21 December 2000
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-6
English
 Copyright 2000 Los Angeles Times 

 RealNetworks Inc. reduced its forecast for fourth-quarter sales and earnings, citing a slowdown in Web-related spending. The maker of Internet media software said profit will be 2 cents a share on revenue of $58 million to $60 million. Analysts on average were expecting earnings of 4 cents, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. Sales had been forecast at $73.6 million, the average analyst estimate from IBES International Inc. RealNetworks also cut its targets for next year's results. Earnings for 2001 are now likely to be 12 cents to 16 cents a share, rather than the 23 cents analysts anticipated, the company said, with revenue at about $300 million, versus the $356.1 million expected. Shares in Seattle-based RealNetworks fell $1.06 to close at $9.94 on Nasdaq, before the warning. The stock dropped to $5.56 in trading after the report. 

Document latm000020010808dwcl02j7a




 Asian stocks tumble in wake of Wall Street 

680 words
21 December 2000
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 TOKYO, Dec 21 (AFP) - Asian stock markets tumbled Thursday in the wake of the Nasdaq's 7.1 percent dive, led by Tokyo's 3.5 percent fall to its lowest level for nearly two years. 

 Shockwaves from the US, where investors fear for the economy and corporate profits, triggered widespread selling of technology stocks in Asia, although the effect was mitigated by bargain hunting in some "old economy" counters. 

 The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index slumped 491.22 points to close at 13,423.21. It was the Nikkei's lowest finish since January 13 last year, when it reached 13,403.60. 

 "Prices mainly of hi-tech shares are falling after the slump in New York," Nikko Securities broker Hiroichi Nishi said. 

 The Nikkei fell for its sixth session in a row after New York's tech-heavy Nasdaq composite dived 7.1 percent on Wednesday to 2,332.77, its lowest level since March 23 last year. 

 US markets, and Asian ones in turn, have been battered this week as concerns deepen over a US economic slowdown and corporate earnings. 

 "When the Nikkei slipped below 13,500 points, investors launched fresh selling on futures trading," Nishi said. 

 "The futures selling dealt a severe blow to the market, which was already in a cautious mood over fears about a further slump in New York," the broker said. 

 The index briefly hit 13,182 points during the session, threatening to breach 13,000 just a day after a 1.5-percent tumble sent the Nikkei below 14,000 to its lowest close in 22 months. 

 "Some bargain-hunting emerged after the Nikkei fell below 13,500 points, but it wasn't strong enough to bring the index back to positive ground," said Mizuho Investors Securities broker Masatoshi Sato. 

 HONG KONG:  Hong Kong share prices fell 1.8 percent led by hi- tech and telecom stocks following overnight falls on Wall Street, dealers said. 

 The key Hang Seng index lost 271.40 points to close at 14,659.32, off a low of 14,476.79. 

 David Luk, a trader with Amsteel Securities, said hi-tech and telecoms stocks were weakened by the persistent falls on Nasdaq over the past few days. 

 "The regional stock markets were overshadowed by the incessant decline on Nasdaq... Hong Kong cannot be an exception," he said. 

 Stocks-Australia 

 SYDNEY: Australian stocks slumped 1.8 percent after local investors shared Wall Street's concerns over a slowing US economy. 

 The All Ordinaries index closed 57.2 points lower at 3,133.7 while the SP/ASX 200 lost 59.4 points to 3,185.8. 

 "There are concerns of a hard landing rather than a soft landing in the US," Sydney-based CIBC World Markets head of equities David Keogh said. 

 Dealers said profit warnings from some local companies were also affecting sentiment. 

 SINGAPORE: Shares slumped 1.6 percent led by technology stocks after the US Nasdaq plummeted and a profit warning from a local semiconductor maker. 

 The Straits Times index fell 30.48 points to close at 1,898.84. 

 Local technology stocks were severely hammered, especially after chipmaker Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing (CSM) -- a favourite of institutional investors -- said it may have to cut its earnings forecast for 2001. 

 "Technology stocks are out of favour. Most of these stocks are trading at their lows," said a dealer at a local brokerage house. 

 KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysian shares recovered from their lows to close down 0.6 percent after an early slump sparked by the plunge of the US Nasdaq index. 

 The Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange composite index ended down 4.55 points at 700.96. 

 An institutional dealer at a local brokerage said late local institutional buying ensured the index closed above the 700-point support level. 

 "There was some last-minute buying in Telekom which really boosted the index, but by mid-afternoon the market had started to lift a little on buying in AMMB Holdings, Star (Publications) and Nestle," she said. 

 burs/bro 

Document afpr000020010803dwcl05dls




 BUSINESS 
 BUSINESS TODAY Series: BUSINESS TODAY  

558 words
21 December 2000
St. Petersburg Times
STPT
SOUTH PINELLAS
1E
English
 (Copyright 2000)  

 HOUSING STARTS RISE IN NOVEMBER: Housing construction rose a solid 2.2 percent in November, the biggest jump in nine months. The Commerce Department reported that builders began work on all new homes at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.56-million last month, a 2.2 percent increase from October. Builders broke ground on more new apartments and condos but fewer single-family homes. By region, all parts of the country reported declines in housing starts except for the West, where they rose.  

 JABIL SLIDES AFTER WARNING: Jabil Circuit Inc. shares fell 24 percent a day after the St. Petersburg company warned declining demand will reduce fiscal second-quarter profit. Jabil dropped $6.81 to $21, cutting $1.3-billion from its market value, now $4-billion. The stock has tumbled 69 percent from its 52-week high in September. At least eight analysts, including Prudential Securities' Ellen Chae and Thomas Weisel Partners' James Savage, cut their ratings on the company.  

 JUA SEEKS RATE INCREASE: Florida's insurer of last resort for homeowners wants to raise rates an average of 10.3 percent next year. The Florida Residential Property and Casualty Joint Underwriting Association, which covers homeowners who cannot find insurance on the open market, approved the rate increase this week and will file for approval with the Department of Insurance before Dec. 31. The incoming insurance commissioner, Tom Gallagher, will review the proposal after he takes office. If approved, homeowners would pay an average $123.86 more, raising their annual premium to $1,321.49. Created after Hurricane Andrew, the JUA ballooned to nearly a million policies before enticing private insurers with bonuses to take most of its business. The JUA only has 67,230 policies left, 95 percent of them in South Florida. In the Tampa Bay area, it has 166 policies in Pinellas County, 105 policies in Hillsborough County, 55 in Pasco County and 19 in Hernando County.  

 MORE LAWSUITS FOR MP3.COM: EMusic.com and six of its independent partner labels have filed a copyright infringement lawsuit against MP3.com. EMusic, which charges users to download music, has partnerships to sell music over the Internet from 600 independent record labels. The lawsuit is similar to suits filed early this year by the five major record labels. MP3.com settled the last of those lawsuits last month.  

 BERKSHIRE TO BUY JOHNS MANVILLE: Berkshire Hathaway Inc., the investment vehicle controlled by Warren Buffett, has agreed to buy Johns Manville Corp. for $2.2-billion in cash and assumed debt. Manville, the second-largest maker of building insulation in the United States, had sales of $2.2-billion last year. It's the billionaire's fourth acquisition this year of a housing or construction company.  

 COKE LOWERS SALES FORECAST: Coca-Cola Co. warned its case sales for the year will rise about 4 percent, less than the company's previous forecast of a 5 percent to 6 percent gain. Still, the soft drink giant said it expects to meet profit estimates this year and next.  

 YUPI.COM CUTS STAFF: The Spanish-language Internet portal Yupi.com is laying off 90 U.S. workers, about half of its U.S. staff. The Miami Beach company blamed a tight market for financing Internet companies and a slowdown in online advertising sales.  

Document stpt000020010813dwcl01f5h




Hot Stock
 Financial Post Investing 
 Union Pacific stuck on the slow track: Analysts lower estimates: Soaring fuel prices, cooling economy hurt traffic volume 

 Dimitra DeFotis 
Barron's
954 words
21 December 2000
National Post
FINP
National
D03
English
 (c) National Post 2000. All Rights Reserved. 

 NEW YORK - Union Pacific Corp.'s share price was beginning to gain speed earlier this year, but investors have put the brakes on. 

 The Omaha-based company, with a market capitalization of US$11.5-billion, runs the largest railroad in the United States, hauling coal, automobiles, chemicals and grain. Its 1996 merger with Southern Pacific caused huge traffic snarls in 1997 and 1998, but more recently Union Pacific offered up five straight quarters of positive earnings surprises. 

 The good news, however, may end there. Yesterday, J.P. Morgan cut its fourth-quarter earnings estimate for Union Pacific to US$90 cents per share from US$1, and 2001 estimates to US$4.40 from $4.55 -- a day after a profit warning from Norfolk Southern Corp. 

 On Monday, well-respected transportation analyst David Yablon at C.S. First Boston lowered his fourth-quarter and 2000 estimates for Union Pacific. 

 The reasons? For starters, some investors continue to look down their noses at railroads because of merger integration problems. More recently, sky-high diesel fuel prices and the economic slowdown have slowed traffic growth for railroads in general. One fund manager says those factors are not adequately reflected in 2001 consensus earnings estimates for Union Pacific. 

 The Association of American Railroads reports that traffic volumes fell off noticeably in the past several weeks. Chemical, agricultural and industrial products were especially weak throughout the year, Mr. Yablon wrote in a research note on Monday. 

 The stock (UNP/NYSE) closed yesterday at US$47 7/8, down US$1 1/2, and 5.4% off its high of US$50 5/8 achieved in November. 

 "I like the company and the management," says Kurt Schansinger, manager of the Merrill Lynch Balanced Capital Fund. "But the environment they operate in has gotten and will continue to get hostile." 

 His fund owned 2.3 million shares in Union Pacific at a high point in mid-1999, but he sold everything in the third quarter of this year. "I sold in anticipation of a slowdown in the economy. There is no near-term formula for making money in the stock." 

 At US$47 7/8, the stock is trading at 13.0 times First Call's 2000 earnings estimate of US$3.67 per share and at 10.6 times 2001 earnings of US$4.51 -- an estimate Mr. Schansinger says "has to come down." 

 Another fund manager, Richard Dahlberg, whose Pioneer II Fund owned 1.3 million shares of Union Pacific 12 months ago, has since sold the stock, a spokesperson said, declining further comment. 

 One drag on the company's name is an ongoing effort by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, which is trying to organize workers of Overnite Transportation, Union Pacific's quick delivery trucking unit. Union Pacific dashed hopes of spinning off that business, which represents 10% of revenues, and filed a US$5.2-million lawsuit against the Teamsters in January. 

 No doubt, any cut in interest rates by the Federal Reserve would help cyclical businesses, including railroads. But since Union Pacific's major customers include General Motors and Pacific container shipper APL Ltd., it's unlikely to benefit until late in 2001 when new orders for autos and other goods presumably would pick up again. 

 Mr. Yablon still rates Union Pacific a "strong buy," and says the stock has upside. But, he cautions, "a hard landing to the economy or resurgence in fuel prices could put this outlook in jeopardy. At the margin, we have less conviction the current consensus forecasts will be met for the railroads we have under coverage." 

 Mr. Yablon further contends that Union Pacific and the rail industry generally have not aggressively passed on increased fuel costs to their customers. 

 Meanwhile, Union Pacific is counting on grain and coal to make up what it might lose in the auto sector. Rail's largest freight category remains coal, which Union Pacific considers among its fastest-growing businesses. It moves 130 million tons annually and is investing millions of dollars on track and engines to add capacity. 

 But the long-term outlook for coal is dimming as clean-burning, natural gas-generated electricity gains popularity. 

 Union Pacific officials did not return telephone calls seeking comment. 

 Mr. Yablon on Monday lowered his 2001 earnings estimate to US$4.45 with a 12-month target price in "the upper 50s," just 11% above the current 52-week high. 

 That target price would imply a price-earnings ratio closer to 12.5 times 2001 earnings, above historic P/Es. Union Pacific's median P/E over the past 10 years is 11.1 times, according to Thomson Financial/Baseline. 

 Of course, Union Pacific is looking more solid beyond 12 months, some bulls say. After upping capital expenditures to upgrade Southern Pacific's system, it is now disciplined about keeping those expenses at US$2-billion annually, according to Scott Flower, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney, which helped manage one of Union Pacific's recent offerings. 

 And Daniel Manion, co-manager of the Sentinel Common Stock Fund and Sentinel Balanced Fund, thinks out-of-favour value funds, which own railroads, could gain momentum and that would "be good for this stock." 

 "If not," he continues, "that leaves you with dead money at worst. But we think the earnings progression is going to look compelling." 

 UNION PACIFIC CORP.: 

 CEO: Richard Davidson 

 Ticker: UNP 

 Listed: New York Stock Exchange 

 Head office: 1416 Dodge St., Omaha, Neb. 68179 

 Telephone: (402) 271-5777 

www.up.com

 List: Union Pacific Corp.: (Online) 

Document finp000020010806dwcl011tm




 FFBN Tech Wrap: Profit Warnings Pull Index Down 7.8% 

925 words
21 December 2000
13:03
Federal Filings Newswires
FF
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


ISSUER: FEDERAL FILINGS
SYMBOL: X.FFI
        (This market wrap was originally published Wednesday evening.)



        WASHINGTON (FFBN)--More profit warnings, combined with disappointment
that the Federal Reserve failed to cut interest rates on Tuesday, pummeled
technology stocks Wednesday, with network equipment and software stocks
taking the worst hits.  The Federal Filings Business News Technology Index
sank 1537.34, or 7.8%, to 18,108.25, its worst finish since April 14, when
the index fell 7.9%.
        Foundry Networks Inc. set the tone in the network equipment sector,
which fell 359.18, or 10%, to 3164.81.  The Internet switch maker's shares
plunged 17.63, or 58%, to 13, following the company's warning Tuesday that it
expects fourth-quarter results of between 11 cents and 14 cents a share.
Analysts had been expecting 24 cents a share.  Foundry blamed the shortfall
on concerns about softening capital spending by Internet service providers.
        Other networking companies followed suit, as shares of Cisco Systems
Inc. dropped 5.25, or 13%, to 36.50.  Merrill Lynch analyst Michael Ching
lowered his intermediate-term rating for Cisco to accumulate from buy, citing
concerns over a slowdown in technology capital spending.  JDS Uniphase Corp.
fell back 5.75, or 11%, to 46, and BEA Systems Inc. lost 12.88, or 19%, to
end at 56.50.
        In the software sector, Microsoft Corp. retreated 3.31, or 7.4%, to
41.50, and Oracle Corp. declined 2.13, or 6.9%, to 28.50, helping to push the
FFBN Software Index down 404.11, or 8.1%, to 4562.28.  Veritas Software Corp.
lost 9.63, or 11%, to 80.38, and Adobe Systems Inc. dropped 6.75, or 11%, to
80.38.
        The Internet sector also took a serious beating, as the FFBN Internet
Index plummeted 77.16, or 10%, to 689.25.  Internet sales concerns sparked by
eToys Inc.'s warning Friday that fourth quarter sales will be about half of
earlier expectations was a major factor in the group's loss.  Commerce One
Inc. declined 8.31, or 27%, to 22.69, after Thomas Weisel Partners LLC
downgraded the company's shares to market perform from buy.  America Online
Inc., pulled down by Time Warner's warning of slower 2000 cash flow growth,
sank 3.51, or 8.6%, to 37.25.
        Elsewhere, a day after falling 2 cents short of Wall Street
expectations for its first quarter, electronics contract maker Jabil Circuit
Corp. slid 6.81, or 25%, to 21.  The company posted a net income of $47.7
million, or 24 cents a share, and said "unanticipated shortages of key
components" hurt first quarter earnings.
        The Dow Jones Industrial Average lost 265.44 points, or 2.5%, to
finish at 10,318.93. The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 178.81 points, or 7.1%,
to 2332.90, its seventh straight loss.  The Standard & Poor's 500 Stock Index
dropped 40.86, or 3.1%, to 1264.74.
COMPANY NEWS:
                                        Net      Pct      EPS      EPS
                             Close    Change   Change     00E      01E
PARK ELECTROCHEM (PKE)       28        +7.25   +34.9%    $2.37    $2.86
Topping analysts' estimates by 14 cents, Park Electrochemical Corp. posted a
third-quarter net income of $14.8 million, or 78 cents a share.  In the same
period a year ago, the company had a net income of $5.8 million, or 34 cents
a share.  Revenue increased to $142.6 million from $108.2 million a year ago.
                                        Net      Pct      EPS      EPS
                             Close    Change   Change     00E      01E
DELL COMPUTER (DELL)         16.63     -1.63    -8.9%    $0.91    $1.11
Dell Computer Corp. cut U.S. prices by up to 20% on most of its Latitude
corporate notebooks, citing lower costs for notebook components.  Dell said
that effective Wednesday, a Latitude CS Ultramobile notebook with a Pentium
III processor is priced at $1,599, a 20% reduction.
Dell said it also cut prices by up to 9% on both its new Latitude C600 and
C800. Prices for the Latitude C600 start at $1,999, while prices for the
Latitude C800 start at $2,599.  Dell added that it's offering "aggressive"
pricing on several Latitude component upgrade options, including memory, hard
drives and module bay options.
                                        Net      Pct      EPS      EPS
                             Close    Change   Change     00E      01E
ELECTRONIC DATA SYS (EDS)    53.44     -0.56   -1.04%    $2.26    $2.65
Electronic Data Systems Corp. obtained a seven-year communications
infrastructure contract from Dow Chemical Co. valued at about $200 million a
year.  EDS said it will design, construct, enhance and maintain Dow
Chemical's communications network.  EDS also obtained a seven-year
information technology outsourcing contract from Weyerhaeuser Co.  Financial
terms of the contract weren't disclosed.
                                        Net     Pct       EPS      EPS
                             Close    Change   Change     00E      01E
VERTICALNET INC. (VERT)      5.31      -0.06    -1.2%   $(0.79)   $0.10
PARK ELECTROCHEM (PKE)       28        +7.25   +34.9%    $2.37    $2.86
YAHOO! INC. (YHOO)           27.94     -0.06    -0.2%    $0.48    $0.58
MICRON TECH (MU)             29.81     -4.94   -14.2%    $3.30    $4.27
Janney Montgomery Scott Inc. cut its rating on VerticalNet Inc. to hold from
accumulate, and upgraded Park Electrochemical Corp. to accumulate from hold.
U.S. Piper Jaffray downgraded Yahoo Inc. to buy from strong buy.
Raymond James & Associates Inc. cut Jabil Circuit Inc. to buy from strong
buy.
Thomas Weisel Partners LLC cuts Micron Technology Inc. to market perform from
buy.



08:03


Document ff00000020010806dwcl02btj




 Ford Issues Another  Profit Warning , Will Idle Most North American Plants 

1,103 words
21 December 2000
20:13
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 DEARBORN, Mich. -- Ford Motor Co. warned that fourth-quarter earnings will come in below Wall Street's already reduced expectations and announced plans to reduce first-quarter North American production by 9%. 

 The auto maker said late Thursday it plans to idle "most" of its North American assembly plants for one week because of the first-quarter cuts. Most of the downtime is scheduled for the last two weeks of January. 

 Ford also said it expects fourth-quarter earnings to be about 10 cents a share below the 74 cents a share analysts were expecting, according to the mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Ford said Thursday that fourth-quarter production was hurt by weather-related losses in North America and parts shortages outside North America. 

 Ford already issued a fourth-quarter warning earlier this month. At that time, the auto maker said it expected earnings of 75 cents a share, below the 85 cents a share analysts were expecting at that time. 

 In 4 p.m. EST trading Thursday on the New York Stock Exchange, Ford (F) was up $2.06, or 9.3%, to $24.19. Shares fell in after-hours trading following the company's announcement and were at $23.13 shortly after 6 p.m. 

 As for the first quarter, the No. 2 auto maker said it now plans to produce 1.05 million vehicles, down 107,000 units, or 9%, from its previous estimates, and down 220,000 units, or 17%, from production in the first quarter of 2000. 

 "It's clear that U.S. economic growth is slowing, and surveys of consumer sentiment point to lower levels of spending in the future," Martin Inglis, vice president of Ford North America, said in a prepared statement. "The revised first-quarter plan is intended to align our U.S. inventories with consumer demand. We're making every effort to stay in front of the slowing demand curve." 

 As for the one-week idling for most North American assembly plants, Mr. Inglis said, "The production cuts are front-loaded in the quarter, with most of the downtime scheduled for the last two weeks of January. This gives us the flexibility to assess the economic picture again before the spring selling season. At the same time, we are intensifying our efforts to achieve operating efficiencies and cost improvements." 

 Specifically, the company said: 

 - For the week of Jan. 1, Ford will halt production at its Atlanta assembly plant, which makes the Ford Taurus and Mercury Sable. 

 - For the week of Jan. 8, the Atlanta assembly plant will continue to be idled, along with Ford's Hermosillo assembly plant, which makes the Ford Escort and ZX2, and its Michigan truck plant, making the Ford Expedition and Lincoln Navigator 

 - For the week of Jan. 22, Ford will idle its Avon Lake assembly plant, making the Mercury Villager and Nissan Quest; its Cuautitlan assembly plant, making the Ford F-Series; its Chicago assembly plant, making the Ford Taurus and Mercury Sable; its Edison assembly plant, making the Ford Ranger and Mazda B-Series; its Kansas City assembly plant, making the Ford F-Series; its Lorain assembly plant, making the Ford Econoline; its Norfolk assembly plant, making the Ford F-Series; its Oakville assembly plant, making the Ford Windstar; its Ontario truck plant, making the Ford F-Series; its Twin Cities assembly plant, making the Ford Ranger; its St. Thomas assembly plant, making the Ford Crown Victoria and Mercury Grand Marquis; its Wayne assembly plant, making the Ford Focus; and its Wixom assembly plant, making the Lincoln Town Car, Continental and LS. 

 For the week of Jan. 29, the company continue to idle its Avon Lake; Cuautitlan, and Lorain assembly plants. 

 Separately Thursday, General Motors Corp. (GM) said it will halt production temporarily at six of its North American plants early next month to reduce inventory amid slowing demand for cars and trucks. 

 The No. 1 auto maker said it will idle five plants during the week of Jan. 1: its Fairfax car plant in Kansas; its Ste. Therese car plant in Quebec; its Linden truck plant in New Jersey; its Moraine truck facility in Ohio, and its Shreveport truck plant in Louisiana. 

 The auto maker also will temporarily shut down its Janesville, Wis., plant on Jan. 5. 

 The Fairfax plant employs 2,960 hourly workers and makes the Pontiac Grand Prix and the Oldsmobile Intrigue. The Ste. Therese plant employs 1,556 hourly workers and makes the Chevrolet Camaro and the Pontiac Firebird. The Linden facility employs 2,272 hourly workers and makes the Chevrolet S-10 pickup and the Chevrolet Blazer. The Moraine plant employs 3,844 and makes the Chevrolet Blazer, the GMC Jimmy and the Oldsmobile Bravada. The Shreveport plant employs 2,238 hourly workers and makes the Chevrolet S-10, GMC Sonoma and the Isuzu Hombre. The Janesville facility employs 4,542 hourly workers and makes the GMC Yukon and Suburban and the Chevrolet Tahoe and Suburban. 

 The Big Three U.S. auto makers have been taking steps to address growing inventories amid weakening demand for vehicles. Earlier this month, all three reported declines in U.S. vehicle sales for November. GM's November sales fell 8.4%, as both car and truck sales declined. 

 Citing cooling demand, GM cut its first-quarter forecast for North American production earlier this month by 14% to 1.373 million units. 

 All three auto makers have halted production temporarily at some of their plants this month. Last week, GM announced it would idle its Fairfax plant in Kansas and two car assembly plants in Lansing, Mich., for the week of Dec. 18. Ford, meanwhile, said at the time it would temporarily idle two U.S. passenger-car plants, located in Chicago and Wixom, Mich., also for the week of Dec. 18. 

 Meanwhile, GM spokesman Kevin Frazier said the moves announced Thursday will temporarily lay off 12,870 employees the week of Jan. 1 and 4,542 on Jan. 5. The workers will receive 95% of their pay under their United Auto Workers labor contract. 

 The production cuts come amid a recent decline in the auto industry and are in line with the first-quarter production estimates GM announced two weeks ago, Mr. Frazier said. 

 Earlier this month, GM said it will cut nearly 15,000 jobs, or 4% of its global work force and kill its slow-selling Oldsmobile brand; GM also issued a fourth-quarter profit warning. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020020330dwcl01mw8




 ADR Report: ADRs Up, But Lucent Warning Curtails Gains 

 By K. Maxwell Murphy 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
836 words
21 December 2000
23:31
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- American depositary receipts ended Thursday higher, without a significant news flow, said Jim Cirenza, head of European equities sales and trading at J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. 

 Overseas markets were "acting much better" before Lucent Technologies Inc.'s warning shortly before 7 a.m. EST, he said, but companies like Nokia Corp. that came off earlier highs were "all hurt by Lucent." 

 AT&T Corp. late Wednesday lowered guidance and announced it was trimming its dividend - moves that further troubled telecommunications stocks, he added. 

 Nokia receipts fell 3.2%, or $1.31, to close at $39.81. 

 Exceeding an earlier offer by New York-based Amerada Hess, Eni SpA offered $4 billion for Lasmo PLC, an independent oil-and-gas exploration and production company out of London. 

 Lasmo receipts ended Thursday trading up 13.9%, or $1.06, at $8.69. Eni closed off 0.5%, or 31 cents, at $60.25. 

 Unilever, the Anglo-Dutch consumer-products giant, saw receipts of both its Netherlands-based and U.K.-based arms rise for a second-straight session, said Cirenza. 

 Early Wednesday, Unilever provided a strong outlook for the fourth quarter and investors bid up receipts of both Unilever NV and Unilever PLC during the day. 

 Thursday morning, European analysts were out with some bullish notes on Unilever, Cirenza said, further bolstering buying in the two arms. 

 Unilever NV, the Dutch arm, ended Thursday up 1.4%, or 88 cents, at $61.25, and the British arm, Unilever PLC, finished up 1.3%, or 44 cents, at $33.56. 

 The Bank of New York ADR Index finished 0.4% higher at 124.39, the International Market Index closed up 0.4% at 682.90 and the Nasdaq ADR Index closed up 1.3% at 466.50. 

 In the U.S., the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed up 1.6%, or 168.36 points, at 10487.29 while the Nasdaq was up 0.3%, or 7.34 points, to close at 2340.12. 

 In overseas markets, Hong Kong shares closed down 1.8% Thursday, led by declines in telecommunications and technology stocks, following the plunge in U.S. markets overnight. 

 The Hang Seng Index slumped 408.11 points minutes into morning trading in the wake of a 7.1% plunge of the Nasdaq. But buying in some property and utility plays lifted the index from its intraday low. 

 "The market is polarized (Thursday)," said Alex Wong, research manager with OSK Securities Asia Ltd. "Funds are buying property for window-dressing." 

 The Hong Kong blue-chip barometer ended the day off 271.40 points, at 14659.32, after trading in a range of 14476.79 and 14775.97. 

 In Japan, more than a week of declines on the Tokyo stock market accelerated Thursday, as broad-based selling on yet another Wall Street plunge knocked shares there to their lowest levels in nearly two years. 

 The Nikkei Stock Average of 225 issues ended down 491.22 points or 3.5% at 13423.21, although it pulled back from a brief plunge of more than 700 points. 

 It was the Nikkei's sixth straight decline - the longest such drop since September, adding up to an uninterrupted 11.5% skid. The benchmark logged its lowest close since Jan. 13, 1999, when it ended at 13403.60. 

 Falling for a seventh straight day, the Topix index of all the Tokyo Stock Exchange First Section issues lost 34.15 points or 2.7% to end at 1255.16, its weakest since March 1999. The index has sunk 10% without a bounce. 

 Decliners mauled gainers 1,061 to 279 Thursday. 

 London shares came off intraday lows in the last half hour of trading, but still closed lower as earnings worries continued to dog the market. 

 The FTSE 100 closed down 61.2 points, or 1.0%, at 6115.5 on substantial provisional market volume of 2.334 million shares as global markets suffered from AT&T and Lucent revenue warnings. 

 Volumes on the Paris stock market thinned in pre-holiday trading amid gathering fears of a hard landing for the U.S. economy after Lucent's profit warning and broker downgrades of major U.S. stocks depressed market sentiment. 

 Investors headed for defensive plays although an early rally in shares on Nasdaq helped pull some French technology and U.S.-sensitive shares higher by the close. 

 The CAC-40 index of the most heavily traded stocks ended mixed, down 7.38 points, or 0.1%, at 5758.92. 

 German blue chips were lower Thursday, burdened by Wall Street profit warnings and tech-stock weakness. 

 The Xetra DAX was down 48.05, or 0.8%, at 6200.71, but rising from earlier lows after the Nasdaq turned positive. 

 Participants said the index would likely continue to trail Nasdaq. 


   -K. Maxwell Murphy, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5173;
maxwell.murphy@dowjones.com


5049

Document dji0000020010805dwcl0616w




 Lucent Sees 1Q Pro Forma Loss From Cont Op 25c-30c/Shr 

679 words
21 December 2000
11:55
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 MURRAY HILL, N.J. -(Dow Jones)- Lucent Technologies Inc. (LU) expects to report a pro forma loss of 25 cents to 30 cents a share from continuing operations on a revenue decline of about 20% in first quarter ending Dec. 31, and will undergo a restructuring program which includes $1 billion in planned cost reductions. 

 Lucent also said it completed a review of its revenue that it announced last month. As a result, Lucent restated fiscal fourth quarter revenue to $8.7 billion and pro forma earnings to 10 cents a share on continuing operations, which is lower than its originally reported $9.4 billion in revenue and pro forma earnings of 18 cents a share. For fiscal 2000, the adjusted results will be $33.6 billion in revenue and pro forma earnings of 93 cents a share from continuing operations. 

 Analysts at First Call/Thomson Financial expect Lucent to report a first quarter loss of 1 cent a share on an ongoing pro forma basis. 

 This is the fourth profit warning Lucent has issued this year. The company guided analysts down prior to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2000 and first quarter 2001, and had also issued earlier warnings about the 2001 first quarter. 

 With Lucent's earlier first quarter warning in October came with the ouster Richard McGinn as chairman and chief executive as the company searched for "an immediate change in leadership." 

 In the press release Thursday, it was McGinn's replacement Henry Schacht announcing " major retooling of the company." 

 The restructuring plan to "drive out" over $1 billion in costs over the next 12 months will consist of "force reductions" and asset writedowns. 

 These writedowns include rationalization of various product lines, consolidation of corporate functions, cuts in marketing operations and "streamlining sales support" as the company "moves technical resources closer to its customers." 

 Lucent said it will give details of the charge related to the restructuring plan when it announces first quarter results in late January. 

 Lucent's restructuring review will continue throughout 2001. The turnaround plans, which have already begun, include the spinoff of the microelectronics unit, now called Agere Systems, and the sale of Lucent's Power Systems to Tyco International. 

 But Lucent said it will continue to hire to enhance its capabilities in high-growth markets. 

 The company said it lowered expectations on a "significant" sales decline in North America due to overall softening in the competitive local exchange carrier market. 

 Lucent also cited a slowdown in capital spending by established service providers, lower software sales and a more focused use of vendor financing. 

 The company also said it was facing higher expenses because its cost structure was "built for a larger revenue base." 

 Lucent said it will move aggressively to streamline operations, prune its product portfolio and cut costs. The company expressed optimism that the plan will bring improved sequential performance every quarter of 2001 and growth at or above market rates by the end of fiscal 2002. 

 The company also reorganized its top leadership to implement the new plan. The strategy includes focusing Internet strategy by narrowing Lucent's product portfolio and dealing with staff issues as it integrates sales and eliminates duplications in marketing operations. 

 Lucent informed the Securities and Exchange Commission of the pending restatement of fourth quarter revenue and called in outside auditors in November. 

 The company found misleading documentation and incomplete communications between sales and the financial organization related to customer credits, software license and shipped equipment. 

 The company said one misstatement was a violation of company procedures and Lucent took disciplinary action which included dismissal of an employee. 

 New York Stock Exchange listed Shares of Lucent closed Wednesday at $15.50, down $1.88, or 10.8%, on volume of 30.2 million shares. Average daily volume is 26.1 million. 

 Lucent shares, which hit a year high of $78.02 on Dec. 22, 1999, reached a year low of $14.31 on Dec. 7. 

 -Bill Platt; Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5400 

Document dj00000020010805dwcl04s69




 Lucent Faces Slow Recovery After Coming Clean With Mkt 

 By Johnathan Burns 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
1,077 words
21 December 2000
19:25
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- The fiscal first quarter profit warning and fourth quarter restatement Thursday by Lucent Technologies Inc. (LU) was not the company's finest hour, but  maybe it did provide some finality. 

 After Lucent lowered guidance for the fifth time in the last year, the company did at least say there is some light at the end of what became a very bleak tunnel. 

 Investors, however, will have to wait until the end of fiscal year 2002 before the company grows at or above the industry rate, said Chief Executive Henry Schacht. 

 That statement in and of itself is a completely new vision of the Lucent rebuilding program - which was supposed to be a short-term process when the company, back in January,  warned for the first time in its history for the first quarter of fiscal 2000. 

 "I think that is new news," Schacht told Dow Jones Newswires. "We said we will grow at or above the industry rate, which we see as 15% to 17%, not 25% (previously predicted)." 

 But that will take some time. Schacht said fiscal 2001 will be a rebuilding year. The company now expects to lose 25  cents to 30 cents a share in the first quarter ending Dec. 31. Analysts had expected the company to break-even in the quarter. Schacht said the company will show sequential improvement throughout next year. The company will also slash jobs, cut its costs by more than $1 billion, shed low-growth  products and revamp its internal governance. 

 All of this is an effort to restore a sense of reality to  a company that had delusions of grandeur. 

 "We tried to grow too fast," Schacht said. "We haven't  said that before. We also had a cost structure built for growth that never occurred." 

 Lucent blames the first-quarter loss on a softening market. The company said startup phone companies are spending  less as they run out of funding, and large, incumbent telecommunications companies are slowing their capital spending as the economy sputters. Sales have dropped substantially in North America. 

 While there is a softening of demand for legacy switching  equipment that both Lucent and chief rival Nortel Networks Corp. (NT) sell, many on Wall Street rightly point out that the problems it faces in the market are unique to the company. 

 "We believe Lucent's unfavorable customer, geographic and product mix hurt performance," Ken Leon, ABN AMRO Inc. telecommunications equipment analyst, said in a note. "We are hopeful there is no weakness in its optical components business." 

 Because it missed the shift by telecommunications carriers to OC-192 fiber optic gear, the company has stimulated sales by extending lines of credit to customers. And the emphasis on growing revenue from quarter-to-quarter apparently led members of the sales force to make concessions  to customers that the company is now paying for. 

 In restating the fourth quarter, Lucent said it will trim  a total of $679 million from its previously reported numbers. Revenue will go to $8.7 billion from $9.4 billion and earnings will be reduced to 10 cents from 18 cents a share. 

 The company said one case where misleading documentation and incomplete communication between a sales team and the financial organization regarding customer credits for a software license accounted for $125 million of the restatement. An employee was fired in connection with the incident. 

 In two other cases, the sales team verbally offered credits to be used later that the company decided to apply to  the fourth quarter for $74 million. In another case, Lucent found it improperly recognized $28 million in revenue from an  incompletely shipped system sale. 

 And the largest chunk of the restatement came from $452 million in products the company took back from systems integrators and distributors after the equipment had not been  installed. The company said there may have been "verbal agreements" to take the equipment back. 


            'Deliverable' Numbers



Either way, the restatement gives a clear indication that  CEO Schacht
and company have disclosed as much bad news as they could.



"As far as we know, these are all the (negative) issues," Schacht
said. "While it's not particularly pleasant, they are the facts. We
clearly understand the 2000 issues, and we want to give numbers that are
deliverable."



But is the worst truly over?



Schacht said 35 years of experience have taught him not to make
statements that he will later regret. Therefore, the company is not
giving any other future guidance at this time.



"I believe it's time for us to say less and do more," Schacht said.



The company will take a restructuring charge in the first  quarter and
might take one again toward the middle of the calendar year, Schacht
said.



The company will also continue a major review of its vendor financing
agreements, Schacht said. The company will report at least some results
of that review in late January when it reports its first-quarter
results, he said.



So is the worst over?



Wall Street seems unsure.



Given the minor drop in the stock's price Thursday - it slid $1.50, or
9.7%, to close at $14 in heavy trading - one might be lead to think the
market believes the worst is behind the company. But Thursday's limited
selloff more likely occurred because Lucent was already barely trading
above its 52-week low, which it blew through Thursday.



Paul Silverstein, telecommunications equipment analyst with Robertson
Stephens, said Lucent has outlined a long recovery process. But further
disappointments shouldn't be ruled out.



"Is there more pain to come?" he asked. "My gut tells me they probably
did an honest and conservative assessment and figured, 'Why not take all
the pain at once?"'



And the revision to fourth-quarter numbers and a lowering  of guidance
for 2001 weren't unexpected.



The size, however, was.



What else could Lucent do to surprise Wall Street?



Finally beat expectations.



Schacht said Lucent believes it will regain leadership in  the optical
switching market with its next-generation LambdaRouter, now up and
running in Europe.



Regaining Wall Street's allegiance will likely take a while to
establish, and Schacht isn't promising any quick fixes.



"(Investors) will have to wait and see what kind of performance we
get," he said.



-By Johnathan Burns, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-2020;
johnathan.burns@dowjones.com


Document dj00000020010805dwcl04q2n




 U.S. stocks mired in red as profit angst plagues Street. 

 By Denise Duclaux 
501 words
20 December 2000
16:53
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 20 (Reuters) - Stocks swooned in late morning trading on Wednesday as the corporate profit picture dimmed in the wake of a warning from the U.S. Federal Reserve that the nation's economy may be slowing too fast. 

 "It's not a pretty sight at all," said Donald Berdine, chief investment officer at PNC Advisors. "There is still concern on most people's minds about how weak or how rough the economy will be next year." 

 The technology-dominated Nasdaq Composite Index tumbled 117 points, or 4.68 percent, to 2,394, after it scraped a new bottom for the year at 2,371.02. The Nasdaq is now off more than 50 percent from its March high. 

 Cisco Systems Inc. led the fall, down almost 10 percent, or $4-1/8, to $37-5/8, after premier Wall Street house Merrill Lynch cut its investment rating on the Internet gear maker and blamed a slowdown in technology spending. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 107 points, or 1.01 percent, to 10,477, after losing almost 2 percent earlier. The world's largest computer company, International Business Machines Corp., off $3-3/8 to $86-3/4, and computer and printer giant Hewlett-Packard, down $1-1/2 to $29-13/16, pressured the blue-chip gauge after Merrill lowered its ratings on those stocks as well. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index dropped 21 points, or 1.68 percent, to 1,283, after touching a fresh year low of 1,275.53 earlier. 

 "Techs are overvalued, especially considering the likelihood of a slowdown in the global economy next year and a barrage of warnings daily," said Bill Meehan, chief market analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald. 

 International Paper Co., a Dow component, edged down 7/8 to $38-5/8 on the New York Stock Exchange. The world's largest paper and wood products company said earnings were expected to fall below estimates, partly because of rising energy costs. 

 Networking equipment maker Foundry Networks Inc. plunged about 55 percent, or $16-7/8, to $13-3/4 on the Nasdaq after warning that earnings would fall below analysts' expectations, due to a shift in spending on communications infrastructure. 

 Jabil Circuits Inc., a leading contract electronics manufacturer, skidded 22 percent, or $6-1/4, to $21-9/16 on the New York Stock Exchange after saying quarterly earnings fell short of expectations because of shortages of key parts. 

 Extreme Networks Inc. lost $14-5/8 to $33-15/16 on the Nasdaq after SG Cowen cut its rating, saying shares of the computer networking company seemed overvalued and would be hurt by a slowing economy. 

 The fresh profit woes come one day after the U.S. Federal Reserve left interest rates steady, helping to trigger a steep sell-off amid fears the economy was winding down too sharply from its once torrid pace. 

Document lba0000020010821dwck09nty




 U.S. stocks seen mixed in Europe trade, Cisco down. 

481 words
20 December 2000
11:54
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, Dec 20 (Reuters) - Wall Street looked set for a mixed opening on Wednesday, as a profit warning from network equipment maker Foundry Networks Inc. added to shaky year-end sentiment in the technology sector, dealers said. 

 Network equipment leader Cisco Systems Inc. traded at $40-3/4 on Instinet, down from its $41-3/4 close in New York, and others in the sector such as Juniper and Redback Networks were seen undermined by the Foundry warning. 

 Foundry itself almost halved in value to $17 in after-hours action, from a closing price of $30-5/8, after saying fourth quarter earnings would be below expectations due to a shift in spending on communications infrastructure. 

 Electronics contract manufacturer Jabil Circuit Inc. was another after-hours casualty, down at $22 from a closing price of $27-13/16 after posting lower-than-expected first-quarter earnings of 24 cents per diluted share. 

 Signalling a flat opening in New York, the March future on the S&P 500 index traded 1.2 points lower at 1,316.8 by 1135 GMT while the Nasdaq Composite equivalent firmed 2.0 points to 2,412.0. 

 Dealers said it was hard to see the market making much progress, having shrugged off Tuesday's decision by the Federal Reserve to relax its interest rate stance to "neutral" and with the Nasdaq dropping to its lowest close in over a year. 

 "We're getting lower lows on the Nasdaq, I wouldn't go anywhere near it," said one dealer here. "A level of 2,200 could be the next support level, but it's broken every other support on the way down so why stop now?" 

 Telephone group AT&T Corp. was also in focus after the Wall Street Journal said the company would meet on Wednesday to cut its annual dividend by as much as 77 percent. 

 The company has already warned that the four spin-off companies created in its demerger plan would pay out "substantially less" than the existing group - curtailing the stock's safe haven yield appeal. The stock was untraded on Instinet. 

 No major U.S. economic indicators were due. 

 By Tuesday's New York close, both the Nasdaq and S&P 500 indices had set new lows for the year, as fears of a slowing economy intensified after the Fed said a swift economic cooling could snowball into sharp downturn. 

 The Nasdaq ended with a loss of 112.81 points, or 4.30 percent, at 2,511.71, its lowest close for the year. The blue-chip Dow Jones average fell 61.05 points, or 0.57 percent, to 10,584.37 and the S&P 500 fell 17.14 points, or 1.30 percent, to hit a new 52-week low of 1,305.60. 

Document lba0000020010821dwck09mtq




 U.S. stocks set for glum opening as profit woes mount. 

 By Denise Duclaux 
723 words
20 December 2000
13:12
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 20 (Reuters) - Wall Street girded for a weak start on Wednesday, one day after the U.S. Federal Reserve warned the nation's economy may be slowing too sharply and helped push the Nasdaq and Standard & Poor's 500 indexes to fresh year lows. 

 "The sentiment out there is very cautious," said Larry Wachtel, a market analyst at Prudential Securities. "The sentiment is 'Don't get in the way of this thing.'" 

 The U.S. central bank's policy-makers on the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) kept interest rates steady on Tuesday, but signaled they were ready to cut rates if necessary to keep the nation's economy out of a recession. 

 The economic pullback has helped trigger a flood of profit warnings. Networking equipment maker Foundry Networks Inc., railroad operator Norfolk Southern Corp. and contract electronics manufacturer Jabil Circuits Inc. after the closing bell added their names to a long list of businesses warning results would miss estimates. 

 "The pervasive problem is this ongoing drumbeat of negative pre-announcements," Wachtel said. 

 More than an hour to go before the opening bell, the Nasdaq 100 index futures lost 45.00 points to 2,365.00, signaling an almost 2 percent drop in Nasdaq's 100 biggest stocks. Standard & Poor's 500 Index futures slipped 7.00 points to 1,311.00. Dow Jones industrial average futures dropped 65 points to 10,636. 

 The FOMC staged a dramatic shift from its 11-month-old position that inflation posed the main risk to the record U.S. expansion - highlighting how swiftly the economic mood has soured and casting a shadow across the globe. 

 European stocks stumbled, pushing the FTSE Eurotop 300 down 3.03 percent and the narrower DJ Euro Stoxx 50 down 2.94 percent. Key Asian stock markets nosedived on Wednesday with investor confidence rattled by the U.S. market slide and the Fed warning. 

 Housing starts for November, due out at 1330 GMT, are not expected to affect the market. Analysts surveyed by Reuters forecast a modest gain to 1.536 million units on average, up from 1.532 million the previous month, helped by falling rates. But building permits, an indicator of future activity, may slip as the industry turns cautious. 

 The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index went into freefall after the Fed's afternoon announcement on Tuesday. It ended with a whopping loss of 112.81 points, or 4.30 percent, at 2,511.71, its lowest close for the year. 

 The blue-chip Dow Jones Industrial average fell 61.05 points, or 0.57 percent, to 10,584.37 after gaining 139 points earlier. The benchmark Standard & Poor's 500 fell 17.14 points, or about 1.30 percent, to hit a new 52-week low of 1,305.60, also a 2000 closing low. 

 While interest-rate cuts are positive for stocks because they cut corporate borrowing costs, many experts say the easier money policy would take months to filter through the economy to benefit the corporate bottom line. 

 Meanwhile, profit warnings are raining down on Wall Street. 

 Railroad operator Norfolk Southern Corp. said it saw quarterly earnings below Wall Street's estimate, due to weakness in the economy, a change in traffic mix and continued expense pressures led by record high diesel fuel prices. 

 Jabil Circuits, after the market closed, blamed parts shortages for first-quarter earnings that fell short of expectations, and lowered its full-year forecasts due to slowing demand for personal computers. 

 Foundry Networks, a maker of Internet networking products, said it expects to report quarterly earnings below analysts' expectations, citing a recent shift in spending on communications infrastructure. 

 Electronics component maker Vishay Intertechnology Inc. said quarterly earnings would be lower than anticipated, due to customer order cancellations and extended deliveries. 

 But TIBCO Software Inc. offered a bright note to the market. The company, after the market closed on Tuesday, reported a 166 percent gain in quarterly revenue and stronger-than-expected operating results on sales of its e-business software. 

 And Internet business services firm Manugistics Group Inc. posted a quarterly profit exceeding Wall Street expectations and reversing a loss from a year earlier, as software license fee revenue more than doubled. 

Document lba0000020010821dwck09mqw




 Worthington earnings miss already- cut  target. 

169 words
20 December 2000
15:07
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 20 (Reuters) - Worthington Industries Inc. , one of the largest U.S. steel processors, on Wednesday said its fiscal second-quarter earnings fell 72 percent as inventories mounted because of waning demand from auto makers. 

 The Columbus, Ohio-based company, which issued a profit warning in November, said its income, excluding unusual items, dropped to $6.9 million, or 8 cents a share, from $24.7 million, or 28 cents a share, in the year-earlier quarter. 

 Analysts' consensus earnings estimate was 9 cents per share, according to research firm First Call/Thomson Financial. Before the company's Nov. 30 earnings warning, the consensus Wall Street forecast was 22 cents a share. 

 Second-quarter revenue fell 3 percent to $457 million from $473 million in the year-earlier quarter. 

 Worthington stock hit its 52-week low of $7-3/8 in early trading on the New York Stock Exchange, off a 52-week high of $12-7/9, reached in June. 

Document lba0000020010821dwck09mq1




 UPDATE 10-Tech sector batters U.S. stocks. 

 By Haitham Haddadin 
1,021 words
20 December 2000
21:59
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 20 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks were bloodied on Wednesday, as the technology-heavy Nasdaq went on a gut-wrenching dive to a 21-month low on recession worries, corporate earnings warnings, and downgrades on high-tech stalwarts like Cisco Systems and IBM. 

 Investors dumped high-tech stocks in a deep and wide sell-off but the mauling stretched to blue chips as well, a day after the U.S. Federal Reserve warned the U.S. economy risked facing further slowdown. 

 The Nasdaq Composite Index plunged 178.94 points, or 7.12 percent, at 2,332.77, its worst close since March 1999. Nasdaq, which had its seventh down day in a row, is now off more than 53 percent from its March 10 closing peak at 5,048.62. 

 It was the seventh largest decline ever for the composite in percentage terms. In points, the drop did not make the the top 10 list. 

 A fresh batch of corporate profit warnings, including one from International Paper Co., the world's largest paper company, came on top of downgrades on high-profile technology companies like Web infrastructure company Cisco Systems and International Business Machines, the world's largest computer company. 

 "Confidence is being trimmed back by the combustible combination of a slowing U.S. economy, earnings disappointments and the Fed's inability to lower interest rates immediately," said Alan Ackerman, market strategist, Fahnestock and Co. "The mood is glum and perplexing." 

 The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average fell 265.44 points, or 2.51 percent, at 10,318.93 while the broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index shed 40.86 points, or 3.13 percent, at 1,264.74, its worst level in more than a year. 

 Investors were spooked after one of Wall Street's leading brokerages, Merrill Lynch, soured on IBM and computer boxmaker Hewlett-Packard Co., cutting their investment ratings and warning clients it saw companies buying fewer computer systems from them. 

 Shares of both IBM and H-P fell sharply on the New York Stock Exchange, hitting new 52-week lows at $84-13/16 and $29-7/16, respectively, and weighing down heavily on the 30-company Dow gauge. IBM closed $4-1/8 lower at $86 and H-P 7/8 at $30-7/16. 

 Cisco Systems led Nasdaq's fall. The Internet gear maker, which was Nasdaq's most actively traded issue, touched a fresh year low of $35-45/64 for a decline of over 13 percent after Merrill Lynch cut its investment rating, blaming a slowdown in technology spending. 

 Cisco closed $5-1/4 off at $36-1/2, and the selling hit the stocks of other sectoral firms like Network Appliance and Juniper Network, sending the S&P Computer Networking index down more than 12 percent. 

 Media stocks, both traditional players like Time Warner and Internets like Infospace Inc., were among the worst performing groups. But the selling was indiscriminate, hitting the shares of software companies, computer networkers, telecommunications, computer makers and semiconductor issues. Trade volume was extremely heavy, with 2.78 billion shares changing hand on Nasdaq. 

 The brave-hearted buyers who ventured into the stock market bet on defensive utilities and pharmaceutical stocks, which are among the year's good performers. 

 Buying on the dips is quickly becoming a market myth; as many stocks show little bounce and keep making new lows, Fahnestock's Ackerman said. "It's a time for people to keep cash and remain cautious," he noted. 

 The tech sector again bore the brunt of the selling as many stocks remain overvalued, despite their pullback from year-highs, especially considering the likelihood of economic slowdown, analysts said. Some 926 stocks hit new lows for the year on Nasdaq, where four stocks fell for each one that rose. 

 "We are having a revaluation of (price-to-earnings) multiples, led by the technology sector," said Joseph DeMarco, managing director of equity trading at HSBC Asset Management Americas, with about $12 billion in assets under management. 

 "The momentum certainly is carrying forward from yesterday after the execrations of a Fed cut in rates were not met. But more importantly, the market is just focusing on what appears to be a slower economy." 

 The Fed on Tuesday left short-term interest rates unchanged, but signaled its readiness to cut them in future to stop the economy from moving into a recession. 

 The U.S. central bank laid out a "laundry list of what is wrong with the patient," brokerage Bear Stearns told clients in a note: eroding consumer confidence, a drag on demand from profits, rising energy costs, shortfalls in sales and earnings - all of which suggest economic growth might be slowing further. 

 International Paper Co., a Dow component, edged down $1-7/8 to $37-5/8 on the New York Stock Exchange. The world's largest paper and wood products company said earnings would fall below estimates, partly because of rising energy costs. 

 A profit warning came from Siliconix Inc., a maker of specialty integrated circuits, on Tuesday. Its shares shed $4-15/16 at $20-1/2, a decline of over 19 percent. 

 Networking equipment maker Foundry Networks Inc. plunged 57 percent, or $17-5/8, to $13 on Nasdaq after warning earnings would lag estimates due to a shift in spending on communications infrastructure. The stock, which slid to a new 52-week low of $12-1/16, had a year high of $212. 

 Jabil Circuits Inc., a leading contract electronics manufacturer, skidded 22 percent, after posting disappointing profits, while Extreme Networks Inc. lost $14-1/16 to $34-1/2 after SG Cowen cut its rating, saying shares of the computer networking company seemed overvalued and would be hurt by a slowing economy. 

 "Every day you are getting new downgrades and (target) price cuts that add fuel to the downside fire," said Arnie Owen, managing director of capital markets at Roth Capital Partners. "It's end-of-season tax selling and at the same time you have earnings fears." 

Document lba0000020010821dwck09gdf




 Analysts  cut  outlook on North American railroads. 

 By Daniel Sorid 
600 words
20 December 2000
21:23
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 20 (Reuters) - Wall Street on Wednesday cut earnings forecasts for the ailing railroad sector, a day after a profit warning by Norfolk Southern Corp. confirmed concerns about high fuel costs and slowing industrial output. 

 J.P. Morgan slashed its estimates on the big four U.S. railroads, citing declining production of vehicles, chemicals, metals and forest products, which make up a large chunk of the goods transported by railroads. 

 Also, an analyst with Deutsche Bank Alex Brown said he expects investor expectations for the sector to slide in coming weeks. And Morgan Stanley cut its estimates on Norfolk Southern, the No. 4 U.S. rail company, and said earnings estimates for railroads would likely need to come down. 

 "The rails carry everything. They're the economy on rails," said J.P. Morgan analyst Jill Evans. 

 A surge in energy prices is also crippling bottom lines of Norfolk Southern and the other major U.S. railroads: Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corp. , Union Pacific Corp. and CSX Corp. . Norfolk Southern gained 1/16 to $13-1/2 on Wednesday, but the three other majors lost ground. Burlington Northern fell 3/8 to $25-13/16, Union Pacific declined 1-1/2 to $47-7/8 and CSX lost 11/16 to $24. 

 The amount spent by the railroads on fuel for every dollar of revenue generated has risen 50 percent since 1999, according to a report by UBS Warburg. 

 The only silver lining this quarter, Evans said, was coal, the largest single item that railroads transport. Chilly weather in the east has kept train cars full of the black substance, she said. 

 Not all railroads are being equally hurt by the upturn in energy prices, analysts said. 

 Canadian National Railway Co. and Burlington Northern hedged their bets against rising costs by locking in energy prices early, while others, such as Norfolk Southern and CSX have not, said Michael Lloyd, an analyst with DB Alex Brown. 

 Railroads have pushed through several price increases for their customers in the past three months because of higher fuel costs, Lloyd said, but higher fees can result in business going to trucking companies. 

 Lloyd also said the sector has a fundamental problem cutting costs quickly in response to lower shipment volume. 

 Trucking companies, the railroads' major competitor, can save money quickly by taking trucks off the roads and putting them in parking lots, he said. 

 Even if railroads reduce the number of cars they run in a train, staff and locomotive costs keep the savings to a minimum. 

 J.P. Morgan cut its fourth quarter earnings forecast for industry leader Union Pacific, which had 26.5 percent of the market share in 1998 according to the UBS report, to 90 cents per share from $1.00, and year 2001 estimates to $4.40 from $4.55. 

 Burlington Northern, the No. 2 railroad, was cut to 63 cents per share from 67 cents in the fourth quarter, and $2.70 per share from $2.80 in 2001. CSX was cut to 30 cents from 40 cents in the fourth quarter. 

 Forecasts for Canadian National, the largest Canadian railroad to operate in the U.S., were also cut by J.P. Morgan, but by a relatively lower magnitude. 

 Market share gains, successful competition against truckers, and significant hedging against high energy prices have kept the railroad competitive and on a good track, Evans said. 

 J.P. Morgan said it expects Canadian National to post fourth quarter earnings of 80 cents, from previous estimates of 82 cents. 

Document lba0000020010821dwck09adn




 U.S. stocks bleed as profit woes plague Wall Street. 

 By Denise Duclaux 
720 words
20 December 2000
17:50
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 20 (Reuters) - Stocks bled in midday trading on Wednesday, pushing the Nasdaq and Standard & Poor's 500 indexes to new year lows for the second straight day, as the profit picture dimmed after a warning from the U.S. Federal Reserve that the economy may be slowing too fast. 

 "It's not a pretty sight at all," said Donald Berdine, chief investment officer at PNC Advisors. "There is still concern on most people's minds about how weak or how rough the economy will be next year." 

 The technology-dominated Nasdaq Composite Index tumbled 146 points, or 5.85 percent, to 2,364, a new bottom for the year at 2,371.02. The Nasdaq is now off more than 50 percent from its March high. 

 "The sentiment is 'Don't get in the way of this thing,'" said Larry Wachtel, a market analyst at Prudential Securities. 

 The Nasdaq 100 Index, a measure of the market's 100 largest technology stocks, tumbled more than 5 percent to 2,264. The index, which hit a new year low of 2,251.02, had enjoyed a year high of 4,816.35. 

 Cisco Systems Inc. led Nasdaq's fall, down almost 10 percent, or $4-5/8, to $37-1/8. The Internet gear maker touched a fresh year low of $36-1/2 after premier Wall Street house Merrill Lynch cut its investment rating, blaming a slowdown in technology spending. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 152 points, or 1.44 percent, to 10,431, after losing almost 2 percent earlier. 

 Computer powerhouses International Business Machines Corp., off $4-3/4 to $85-3/8, and Hewlett-Packard Co., down $1-7/16 to $29-7/8, pressured the blue-chip gauge after Merrill lowered its ratings on those stocks as well. Both stocks carved out new year lows. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index dropped 27 points, or 2.14 percent, to 1,277, after touching a fresh year low of 1,275.53 earlier. 

 "Techs are overvalued, especially considering the likelihood of a slowdown in the global economy next year and a barrage of warnings daily," said Bill Meehan, chief market analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald. 

 Investors sought shelter in a handful of old-line companies, as investment downgrades and profit warnings slammed the tech sector. Merck & Co. Inc., the No. 2 U.S. pharmaceutical group, gained $3-7/16 to $94-15/16, while healthcare giant Johnson & Johnson jumped $2-1/8 to $101-5/16. Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the world's largest retailer, rose $1-11/16 to $49-5/8. All three limited the Dow's loss. 

 Fresh worries about falling profits came the day after the U.S. Federal Reserve kept interest rates steady, helping to trigger a steep sell-off amid fears the economy was winding down too sharply from its once torrid pace. 

 "There is a kind of emotional attitude that is taking the market down," said Philip Dow, director of equity strategy at Dain Rauscher Wessels. "Investors are in a 'show me' mode and I don't blame them. It's been a very painful year." 

 International Paper Co., a Dow component, edged down $1-1/8 to $38-3/8 on the New York Stock Exchange. The world's largest paper and wood products company said earnings would fall below estimates, partly because of rising energy costs. 

 Networking equipment maker Foundry Networks Inc. plunged about 55 percent, or $17-1/8, to $13-1/2 on the Nasdaq after warning that earnings would fall below analysts' expectations, due to a shift in spending on communications infrastructure. The stock, which slid to a new 52-week low of $13-3/8, had a year high of $212. 

 Jabil Circuits Inc., a leading contract electronics manufacturer, skidded 22 percent, or $6-1/4, to $21-9/16 on the New York Stock Exchange after saying quarterly earnings fell short of expectations because of parts shortages. 

 Extreme Networks Inc. lost $14-1/16 to $34-1/2 on the Nasdaq after SG Cowen cut its rating, saying shares of the computer networking company seemed overvalued and would be hurt by a slowing economy. 

Document lba0000020010821dwck099fe




 Business; Financial Desk 
 Microsoft Plans Spending  Cut , Pay Boost 

From Reuters
266 words
20 December 2000
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-4
English
 Copyright 2000 Los Angeles Times 

 With profit falling short of expectations and its stock trading at a two-year low, Microsoft (ticker symbol: MSFT) plans to slash some spending while boosting pay to keep its workers happy, Chief Executive Steve Ballmer told employees in a recent memo. 

 The software giant will exit some non-core businesses and cut back on travel and entertainment expenses, while giving workers raises or bonuses to offset paper losses on once-vaunted stock options, Ballmer wrote last week. 

 "Our ongoing goal is that our base salaries are higher than two-thirds of the companies in the industry. We have drifted behind that target and the stock market drop makes employees, new and old, more sensitive to cash compensation," Ballmer wrote. 

 Ballmer cited the problems facing many Microsoft partners and customers in the personal computer market, where a sales slump is expected to continue, in calling for significant spending cuts across the company. 

 On Friday, Microsoft's shares tumbled 12% after the company issued a rare warning that profit would fall short of expectations because of slow PC sales. 

 News of Ballmer's cost-cutting plans didn't help Microsoft stock on Tuesday: It fell $3 to close at $44.81 in Nasdaq trading, the lowest price since late 1998. 

 (BEGIN TEXT OF INFOBOX / INFOGRAPHIC) 

 Trading Down 

 Brokerage shares have fallen along with the market since Labor Day as stock trading and investment banking activity have slowed. 

 * 

 Amex brokerage index, weekly closes and latest 

 Tuesday: 526.87 

 Source: Bloomberg News 

 GRAPHIC: Trading Down, Los Angeles Times; 

Document latm000020010808dwck02ivb




 A happier new year for Gates? 

 Scott Hillis. 
779 words
20 December 2000
The Scotsman
SC
4
English
(c) 2000

 THE good news for Microsoft is that the world's top software company is finally waving goodbye to what was arguably the worst 12 months in its 25-year history. 

 The bad news is that the coming year doesn't look any better. Surely the founder, Bill Gates, won't look back on the year 2000 and smile. Not only did a federal judge order the company to split in two, but its once-torrid growth slowed to a more modest pace, the share price was cut in half, and hackers embarrassingly made off with company secrets. 

 Microsoft had ended 1999 on a high as stock hit $119 on 30 December. Last Friday, it was trading at $49. 

 But Microsoft's greatest challenges, in both the legal and business arenas, still lie ahead, analysts said. "As I look out, I don't see anything to get really passionate about in the Microsoft story near-term," said Rick Sherlund, an analyst at Goldman Sachs. 

 Many analysts had thought the company, which makes the Windows operating system and Office package of business software, had turned a corner when it announced rosy results for its first fiscal quarter in October. 

 But those hopes were dashed last week when Microsoft warned that profits for its second quarter and full year would fall about 5 per cent short of earlier estimates due to a slumping PC market. 

 The profit warning was Microsoft's first in 11 years, and only its second in its 14 years as a publicly traded company, and set a glum tone for 2001. 

 "The first half of the year is very risky," said Rob Enderle, an analyst with Giga Information Group, a technology consultancy. "There's a lot more downward pressure on revenue than upward pressure." 

 The problem is that consumer buying of PCs has slowed dramatically while sales of Windows 2000, Microsoft's flagship operating system for powering business computers and networks, hasn't gained traction yet due to the long-time corporate customers need to evaluate and carry out such an upgrade. 

 "At a foundation level, certainly Windows 2000 has to do better for Microsoft's fortunes to turn back toward the positive," said Dwight Davis, an analyst with Summit Strategies. 

 Windows 2000, unveiled in February, is the springboard for Microsoft's sweeping .NET plan to weave the internet into all its products and eventually start selling software as a subscription service rather than on boxed CD-ROMs. 

 But although the company trumpets .NET as a new phase in computer and the internet, it must win over thousands of independent software developers to help bring that vision into sharper focus. 

 Two bright lights on the horizon are releases of the next version of Windows, dubbed Whistler, and an update to Office. "These are each very compelling products that will showcase the excitement of the personal computer. 

 "It's up to us to do a great job bringing these two breakthrough products to market with a great deal of enthusiasm," John Connors, Microsoft's chief financial officer, said. 

 Those are scheduled for the second half of next year, but analysts are sceptical that Microsoft, with its history of pushing back product release dates, can deliver the goods on time to lift results. It also remains to be seen whether Microsoft's ventures into handheld computers, interactive television, and video games will bear fruit. 

 Many seem to be counting on US Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan pulling the US economy back from the brink of an all-out recession next year. Microsoft is counting on businesses opening their wallets to upgrade their equipment. A credit crunch won't help. 

 Even if everything else falls into place, it will be impossible to ignore the biggest cloud hanging over Microsoft - the US government's antitrust case that threatens to bust it up. 

 George W Bush's election victory is seen as a plus for the company, but it is unclear how much influence the new president can wield, since Microsoft has already been found to have violated antitrust law. 

 Some legal analysts have said a Bush administration would be more likely to cut a deal with Microsoft, but few see the company emerging entirely unscathed. 

 Barring any settlement, the case is almost certain to be appealed to the Supreme Court. 

 In a brief filed with a US appeals court in November, Microsoft denied it held a monopoly or had violated antitrust law, and asked that the break-up ruling be thrown out. 

 The next phase in the case is due on 12 January, when the government is to file its brief to the court. 

Document sc00000020010816dwck00tp0




 Companies: Microsoft Plans To Reduce Costs, Boost Some Salaries --- Chief Executive Rejects The Possibility of Layoffs 

 By Rebecca Buckman 
Staff Reporter
407 words
20 December 2000
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
5
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Microsoft Corp., reeling from slower-than-expected sales of its core products, plans to cut costs throughout its businesses even as it boosts some employees' salaries to make sure they don't leave. 

 Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, has asked all his top executives to "significantly reduce" some expenditures budgeted for the fiscal year. 

 In a seven-page memo sent to employees late last week, he wrote: "We all have a big incentive as shareholders to reignite the kind of cost-conscious culture that marked Microsoft's earlier years." 

 Mr. Ballmer, who usually sends a similar, goal-setting memo to his senior managers each February, also laid out seven overarching business priorities for the company. They include pushing forward with new Internet initiatives and computing devices, as well as continuing to expand older products such as Windows and Office, which still supply the bulk of the revenue. 

 The memo was distributed last Thursday, the same day the Redmond, Washington, company announced that it would fall short of analysts' revenue and profit estimates for its current quarter, which ends Dec. 31. It was the first early profit warning from Microsoft since 1989, and sent rumors that the company would depart from history even more dramatically by announcing a major layoff. 

 In his memo, Mr. Ballmer rejected that possibility. "To be clear, resource reductions don't translate into employee layoffs," he wrote, though adding that the company will "reduce unfilled head count." 

 A Microsoft spokeswoman noted the company has about 5,000 unfilled jobs. She called the memo "just a candid conversation between Steve and our employees about goals and priorities for the next year," aimed partly at reassuring them that their jobs were secure. "It's not a reorganization; it's not a strategic shift," she stressed. 

 Microsoft's shares, stung by the company's antitrust woes and, more recently, slow demand for PCs, have tumbled nearly 59% since the start of the year. Midday Tuesday in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, Microsoft was down 1.7% at $47 (52.56 euros), a loss of 81.25 cents. 

 In his memo, Mr. Ballmer acknowledged bluntly that the steep drop "makes employees, new and old, more sensitive to cash compensation. Stock options," he wrote, "remain a great long-term opportunity." But "reality has set in -- here and industrywide." 

Document wsje000020010814dwck00jyo




 Norfolk Southern Cites Freight  Decline  In Issuing  Profit Warning  for 4th Period 

 By Daniel Machalaba 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
447 words
20 December 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
A4
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Norfolk Southern Corp. issued a fourth-quarter profit warning, reflecting a decline in railroad freight traffic and increased expense pressures due to higher oil prices. 

 The move by the big railroad holding company signals a slowing of the general economy. 

 Rail freight traffic movements represent an important barometer of the nation's economic activity because of the wide range of commodities hauled by rail and their sensitivity to changes in demand. 

 "One of the recent star performers for railroads, including Norfolk Southern, has been automobile traffic riding the wave of enormous auto production," said Anthony Hatch, an independent analyst in New York. "That wave has crested, and with that comes a more difficult revenue picture in the near term." 

 Norfolk Southern, Norfolk, Va., said it expects fourth-quarter earnings per diluted share of five to 10 cents a share, excluding the effect of work-force reductions in the fourth quarter. That is considerably below the First Call/Thomson Financial consensus of analysts' estimates of 20 cents a share. 

 Norfolk Southern reported net income of $31 million, or eight cents a share, on revenue of $1.47 billion for the year-earlier fourth quarter. 

 The company said that except for agricultural shipments and intermodal shipments (those carried by a combination of rail and highway), freight volumes in all commodity groups are below those in the year-earlier period. It also cited a change in traffic mix during the quarter that resulted in lower revenue. 

 Diesel-fuel prices in the quarter averaged more than $1.06 a gallon, compared with an average of less than 72 cents a gallon a year earlier. 

 Norfolk Southern declined to specify which commodities were down the most. A Norfolk Southern spokeman confirmed that shipments of automobiles were down in the quarter, and that that had a ripple effect on the movement of auto parts, metals and plastics. 

 Norfolk Southern is a major hauler for the automotive industry of both parts and finished vehicles. 

 Norfolk Southern also said it plans to boost capital spending in 2001 to $806 million compared with planned capital spending of $747.1 million this year. The higher level reflects plans to complete several fiberoptic installations at the company's Thoroughbred Technology & Telecommunications (T-Cubed) subsidiary. 

 The 2001 spending budget includes $224 million to buy 160 six-axle locomotives, upgrade some existing locomotives and rebuild automobile-carrying freight cars. 

 As of 4 p.m. New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Norfolk Southern shares were at $13.44, up 13 cents. The announcement came after 4 p.m. 

Document j000000020010807dwck00viz




 Microsoft Plans to Reduce Costs --- Expenditure Cuts Will Come Even as Company Increases Some Salaries --- Chief Rejects Possibility of Layoffs 

 By Rebecca Buckman 
Staff Reporter
445 words
20 December 2000
The Asian Wall Street Journal
AWSJ
23
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Microsoft Corp., reeling from slower-than-expected sales of its core products, plans to cut costs throughout its businesses even as it boosts some employees' salaries to make sure they don't leave. 

 Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, has asked all his top executives to "significantly reduce" some expenditures budgeted for the fiscal year. 

 In a seven-page memo sent to employees late last week, he wrote: "We all have a big incentive as shareholders to reignite the kind of cost-conscious culture that marked Microsoft's earlier years." 

 Mr. Ballmer, who usually sends a similar, goal-setting memo to his senior managers each February, also laid out seven overarching business priorities for the company. They include pushing forward with new Internet initiatives and computing devices, as well as continuing to expand older products such as Windows and Office, which still supply the bulk of the revenue. 

 The memo was distributed last Thursday, the same day the Redmond, Washington, company announced that it would fall short of analysts' revenue and profit estimates for its current quarter, which ends Dec. 31. It was the first early profit warning from Microsoft since 1989, and sent rumors that the company would depart from history even more dramatically by announcing a major layoff. 

 In his memo, Mr. Ballmer rejected that possibility. "To be clear, resource reductions don't translate into employee layoffs," he wrote, though adding that the company will "reduce unfilled head count." 

 A Microsoft spokeswoman noted the company has about 5,000 unfilled jobs. She called the memo "just a candid conversation between Steve and our employees about goals and priorities for the next year," aimed partly at reassuring them that their jobs were secure. "It's not a reorganization; it's not a strategic shift," she stressed. 

 Microsoft's shares, stung by its antitrust woes and, more recently, slow demand for PCs, have tumbled nearly 59% since the start of the year. Midday Tuesday in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, Microsoft was down 81.25 cents, or 1.7%, at $47. 

 In his memo, Mr. Ballmer acknowledged bluntly that the steep drop "makes employees, new and old, more sensitive to cash compensation. Stock options," he wrote, "remain a great long-term opportunity." But "reality has set in -- here and industrywide." 

 To help the company continue to recruit and retain top people, Mr. Ballmer said it will "invest significantly" in base-salary raises for some high-performing employees. Reviews for lower-level employees and those in middle management will start next month. 

Document awsj000020010803dwck00f9a




 Auto-Parts Supplier TRW Warns 4th-Quarter Results Will Miss Estimates 

492 words
20 December 2000
21:49
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 CLEVELAND -- TRW Inc. warned that fourth-quarter results will miss analysts' estimates because of a decline in North American automotive production. 

 Becoming the latest auto-parts supplier to issue a profit warning, TRW (TRW) said it expects to post fourth-quarter earnings, excluding nonrecurring items, in the range of 50 cents to 55 cents a share. Analysts were looking for earnings of 74 cents a share according to the mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 TRW also said it will record about $14 million in fourth-quarter charges relating to product recalls, primarily a seat belt-buckle latch recall involving about 300,000 Ford Motor Co. (F) and General Motors Corp. (GM) vehicles, and about $2 million relating to the establishment of reserves for receivable from a customer that has filed for bankruptcy protection. 

 In addition, TRW will post about $45 million in automotive-restructuring and asset-impairment charges and about $25 million to reserve for pending litigation. 

 The automotive-restructuring and asset-impairment charges include about $14 million in charges relating to the company's ongoing restructuring program, about $10 million relating to the reorganization and downsizing of TRW's aftermarket business, about $13 million relating to the write-down of impaired assets and about $8 million relating to other actions. 

 TRW doesn't expect the recall-related charges will affect the company beyond the fourth quarter, while the rest of the shortfall is related to external factors hurting the automotive industry. 

 In a prepared statement, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Joseph T. Gorman said "the business environment in the quarter continues to be challenging" as the nature of the declining automotive production, recall issues, the strength of the U.S. dollar, and other industry-wide factors are having an unfavorable affect on the company's earnings. 

 TRW, which also supplies products and services to the aerospace, and information systems markets, plans to report fourth-quarter results Jan. 24. 

 Despite the anticipated shortfall, TRW still believes it will meets its goal of cutting net debt by about $300 million in the second half of 2000. If it achieves the goal, then TRW will have cut total net debt this year by $1.8 billion. 

 TRW said that in response to the challenging environment, it is reducing capital investment and fixed costs, divesting noncore assets, cutting its work force and accelerating initiatives to implement lean manufacturing techniques. A TRW spokesman said the company hasn't yet determined the number of work force cuts. 

 The company said its cash flow remains strong and will continue to get priority attention. 

 Among other auto-parts suppliers, Delphi Automotive Systems Corp. warned last week that it expects fourth-quarter and 2001 earnings to miss Wall Street estimates as a slowdown in the automotive industry begins to cut into its profit. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dwck01mou




 Ford Sees `Record' Sales Growth in 2000 Despite Firestone Recall 

577 words
20 December 2000
17:16
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 DEARBORN, Mich. -- Despite setbacks related to the Firestone tire recall and slumping demand for vehicles in the U.S., Ford Motor Co. said it expects to finish the year with record sales growth. 

 Ford (F), whose Explorer sport-utility vehicle figured prominently in the massive tire recall, said it has made "solid progress" toward improving customer satisfaction. 

 In reviewed its achievements, the No. 2 auto maker, which issued a fourth-quarter profit warning earlier this month, termed 2000 "a very strong year." 

 "When you look back on 2000 it was a very strong year for us in terms of improving our financial strength, new product launches and a total team effort from our people," President and Chief Executive Officer Jacques Nasser said in a prepared statement. "We've got the best brands we've ever had and a great product line-up, which we expect to lead to record sales." 

 For 1999, Ford reported $162.6 billon in sales. 

 The company also said Wednesday that, during the year, it improved its financial strength and introduced new products, such as its Explorer Sport Trac model, which is an SUV-pickup truck, and improved the fuel economy of its SUV fleet by 25%. 

 The company also noted that it launched a major restructuring of its European operations, designed to cut overcapacity and result in the launch of 45 new products over the next five years. 

 In May, Ford announced plans to cut European operations, while at the same time striving to push its share of the European market back above 10% within the next three years. At the time, Ford's market share had shrunk to 8.6%. 

 Ford also said Wednesday that shareholder value was a "key theme" for the year. Ford said its "value-enhancement plan" returned $5.7 billion in cash and stock to shareholders during the year. It also noted that auto supplier Visteon Corp. (VC) was spun off, with Ford shareholders receiving one Visteon share for approximately eight shares of Ford. 

 In September, meanwhile, the company unveiled a $5 billion stock-repurchase program. In October, it said it was boosting its regular quarterly dividend by 5% to 30 cents a share. 

 In April, Ford announced the value-enhancement plan, under which it would distribute as much as $10 billion, along with ownership of its Visteon parts unit, to shareholders. Shareholders had elected to receive a total of $5.7 billion under the plan; the $5 billion repurchase plan, therefore, added $700 million to Ford's plan to return $10 billion to investors, the company noted in September. 

 The Big Three U.S. auto makers have been taking steps to address growing inventories amid weakening demand for vehicles. Earlier this month, all three reported declines in U.S. vehicle sales for November. Ford reported a 7.2% decline for November and announced plans to reduce production and close some plants temporarily in December. The auto maker also warned fourth-quarter earnings would fall short of Wall Street's expectations. 

 Ford warned that it expects to report fourth-quarter earnings of 75 cents a share. Analysts at that time were expecting the auto maker to earn 85 cents a share, according to the mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. The current mean estimate is for earnings of 74 cents a share. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020020330dwck01mn3




 Fiber Optics Cos Take Beating; Street Sees Slow Recovery 

 By Johnathan Burns 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
517 words
20 December 2000
20:58
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Fiber optics systems and component makers continued to take a pounding Wednesday, and some on Wall Street believe the pressure won't end for some time. 

 Shares of systems market leader Nortel Networks Corp. (NT) and component leader JDS Uniphase Corp. (JDSU) hit new 52-week lows, while upstart switch-maker Corvis Corp. (CORV) and fiber and broadband access equipment maker ADC Telecommunications Inc. (ADCT) barely hovered above their lows. 

 The damage was widespread. Optical systems maker Ciena Corp. (CIEN), which lost $23.19 a share Tuesday after announcing a dilutive acquisition, had recently dropped another $7.50. 

 The selloff came on both a hangover from the Federal Reserve's decision Tuesday not to lower interest rates and concerns brought about by Foundry Networks Inc.'s (FDRY) fourth quarter profit warning. 

 The switch maker said Tuesday that it would earn between 11 cents and 14 cents a share, below First Call's estimate of 24 cents, on cutbacks in capital spending in the communications infrastructure sector. 

 The warning spooked a market already worried about spending by communications companies, causing the selloff to spill into the fiber optics sector. 

 "There is definitely a lot of negative sentiment in the market," said Tom Lauria, telecommunications equipment analyst with ING Barings. "And there is still some downside in this market." 

 He said that many on Wall Street had long assumed that startup phone companies and Internet service providers would continue to receive funding for aggressive buildout plans. However, within the last few months capital markets have become frigid. 

 "We don't have that working assumption anymore," Lauria said. 

 Early Wednesday, Lauria cut his rating on Nortel to buy from strong buy, saying that he could not see the company's revenue rising 30% in 2001 due to a greater-than-expected decline in circuit switching. 

 Meanwhile, shares of Ciena continued to slide after it announced intentions to buy Cyras Systems Inc. for about $2.6 billion. The deal is expected to shave 19 cents to 22 cents a share off Ciena's fiscal 2001 earnings, which had been expected to be 70 cents. 

 Lehman Brothers telecommunications equipment analyst Steve Levy said Tuesday's selloff in Ciena's shares reveals the changing philosophy of the street. 

 "It seems like we may be going back to an environment where earnings matter," he said. 

 Obviously, a reduction of interest rates will relieve a lot of sell pressure across the entire market. But telecommunications equipment makers - even in the explosive sector of fiber optics - will remain under pressure until carriers show that spending is not declining rapidly. 

 "This industry is not going away," Lauria said. "I think there's fundamentally good value in a lot of these companies. The truth is, most companies move up too much, and go down too much. We'll have to wait for signs of a better economy and solid carrier spending levels next year." 

 -By Johnathan Burns, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-2020; johnathan.burns@dowjones.com 

Document dj00000020010805dwck04rjh




 MARKET TALK: Chips Are Stacked Against The Group 

1,129 words
20 December 2000
15:59
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:59 (Dow Jones) A downgrade of Cisco Systems (CSCO) coupled with an
earnings warning from Foundry Networks (FDRY) and bleak outlook for
Jabil Circuit (JBL) is dragging down chip stocks. Broadcom (BRCM) was
recently off 3.6%,  while PMC-Sierra (PMCS) was down 3.6%, and Texas
Instruments (TXN) was off 3.5%. But wait, could it be true? Both Altera
Corp. (ALTR) and Xilinx Inc. (XLNX) were recently trading up, maybe
because they already warned. (DLF)



10:56 (Dow Jones) "Every day that the Fed waits to cut interest rates,
the odds of a recession increase," says GKST economist Brian Wesbury,
who sees 60% odds of recession in 2001. (JC)



10:55 (Dow Jones) Trader says Fed Funds futures pricing in a 46%
chance of a 50 basis point ease in Jan., and 100% chance of a 25 basis
point ease. Trader notes contract went up about 5K in open interest
Tuesday. He says this is in contrast to what usually happens on an FOMC
day when participants generally take profits on positions. (CMN)



10:45 (Dow Jones) Is the end of the Levitt era at SEC at hand? SEC
Chairman Arthur Levitt will make an announcement later Wednesday morning
regarding his tenure at the Commission. (JC)



10:35 (Dow Jones) Latin American dot-coms are scraping the bottom
Wednesday, with StarMedia (STRM) and AOL Latin America (AOLA) having hit
new all-time lows. El Sitio (LCTO) is also at its low point - 75 cents -
on the Nasdaq. (AG)



10:30 (Dow Jones) If the Fed cuts interest rates in January as it
indicated it might, it could mark the end of the "bottoming process and
the beginning of the next stage, a strong bull move" in retailing
stocks, according to Merrill Lynch analyst Daniel Barry. The current
weakness in the group could be the last major buying opportunity, he
wrote in a research note. Barry recommends buying on bad news. He said
his best stock ideas are Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT), Costco Cos. (COST)
and Dollar Tree Stores Inc. (DLTR). (PAP)



10:27 (Dow Jones) Floor traders say activity is mixed in S&Ps in the
early trade. Dealers were on both sides, with volume decent. Market is
attempting to work higher, but traders don't see it happening. "It still
acts bad and we're still going lower," one trader says. His near-term
target for March S&Ps is 1250. (DMC)



10:20 (Dow Jones) Litigation, shmitigation. Tobacco stocks a little
better in fast-falling market, but a longer view is really revealing.
Over the last week sector has gained over 5%, and the numbers get better
the further back you go in calendar. Best sector over one year? Yep,
it's tobacco, with four key stocks - Philip Morris (MO), RJ Reynolds
Tobacco (RJR), UST (UST) and Universal Corp. (UW) - up over 80% as a
group. (GC)



10:15 (Dow Jones) Mortgage rates need to drop another 40 BP to trigger
a full-blown refinancing wave comparable to the one occurred in 1998,
Salomon Smith Barney analysts say. However, the MBA refi index has not
gotten anywhere near 1998 levels and the major difference between 1998
and the current environment is that the current overhang of refinancable
coupons is much smaller, they say. (JS)



10:07 (Dow Jones) High-yield market is mixed early in quiet holiday
trade. Cellular sector is down about a half point, says trader, while
some better performers are in the gaming, oil & gas, and health care
sectors. (RTB)



10:02 (Dow Jones) Another warning from a company with a stock with
little room left to drop. eMachines (EEEE), which now trades at 41 cents
a share, says its 4Q loss will come it between 19 cents and 23 cents a
share, far below the 4-cent loss the Street was expecting. Revenue will
also be down until the third quarter of 2001. The company is one of the
IPO market's biggest disappointments this year. eMachines came public at
$9 a share on March 24. (RJH)



9:56 (Dow Jones) Conseco's (CNC) get-tough boss Gary C. Wendt is doing
a good job, most agree - but there are still caveats aplenty about the
insurer. After Tuesday's deal to sell a big stake in a riverboat casino
to help raise cash (and a call with investors), UBS Warburg says such
actions move CNC "out of the danger zone." But UBS left its "hold" on
the stock and lowered 2000 EPS target to 38c from 60c, based on guidance
from management, and puts price target on stock of $14. CNC off 4% to
10.13. (GC)



9:50 (Dow Jones) Chemical stocks have had their share of hard times,
but maybe the group has hit bottom. Some are interpreting the 6% stock
gain that followed Rohm & Haas Co.'s (ROH) 4Q profit warning Tuesday as
a sign of better times ahead. Lehman Brothers' Timothy Gerdeman says
investors, hopeful of a soft landing for the economy, are looking beyond
near-term pressures. Keep in mind, though, that quite a few folks
thought the worst was over in tech when Intel (INTC) and some others
acted well after poor outlooks. (TG)
   9:45 (Dow Jones) Citing a "dramatic" slowdown in information
technology spending, among other things, Merrill Lynch analyst Thomas
Kraemer cut his ratings on International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)
and Hewlett-Packard Co. (HWP) to near-term neutral from accumulate.
Although the stocks aren't falling as hard as other techs Wednesday,
shares of IBM were still down 5.5% while   H-P's stock was off 4%.
(DLF)



9:43 (Dow Jones) The rout in stocks has helped Treasurys yield to
continue dropping. At 5.09%, the 10-year note is at its lowest yield
since April 1999. The DJIA is down about 1.9%, while the Nasdaq is down
5.6%. (SV)



9:39 (Dow Jones) Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo, is
cutting right to the chase. While others speculate whether the nation
will fall into a recession next year, he says we might, in fact, already
be there. "After all, the beginning of a recession is the end of a boom
when things feel pretty good," Sohn said. (KJT)



9:36 (Dow Jones) Goldman Sachs economists say cumulative easing will
be between 50 and 100 basis points and will be front loaded during first
half of 2001. (JC)



9:34 (Dow Jones) Nasdaq Composite drops below 2400 for first time
since June 15, 1999. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwck04qx8




 MARKET TALK: eMachines To Miss, But How Low Can Stock Go? 

1,028 words
20 December 2000
15:02
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



10:02 (Dow Jones) Another warning from a company with a stock with
little room left to drop. eMachines (EEEE), which now trades at 41 cents
a share, says its 4Q loss will come it between 19 cents and 23 cents a
share, far below the 4-cent loss the Street was expecting. Revenue will
also be down until the third quarter of 2001. The company is one of the
IPO market's biggest disappointments this year. eMachines came public at
$9 a share on March 24. (RJH)



9:56 (Dow Jones) Conseco's (CNC) get-tough boss Gary C. Wendt is doing
a good job, most agree - but there are still caveats aplenty about the
insurer. After Tuesday's deal to sell a big stake in a riverboat casino
to help raise cash (and a call with investors), UBS Warburg says such
actions move CNC "out of the danger zone." But UBS left its "hold" on
the stock and lowered 2000 EPS target to 38c from 60c, based on guidance
from management, and puts price target on stock of $14. CNC off 4% to
10.13. (GC)



9:50 (Dow Jones) Chemical stocks have had their share of hard times,
but maybe the group has hit bottom. Some are interpreting the 6% stock
gain that followed Rohm & Haas Co.'s (ROH) 4Q profit warning Tuesday as
a sign of better times ahead. Lehman Brothers' Timothy Gerdeman says
investors, hopeful of a soft landing for the economy, are looking beyond
near-term pressures. Keep in mind, though, that quite a few folks
thought the worst was over in tech when Intel (INTC) and some others
acted well after poor outlooks. (TG)
   9:45 (Dow Jones) Citing a "dramatic" slowdown in information
technology spending, among other things, Merrill Lynch analyst Thomas
Kraemer cut his ratings on International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)
and Hewlett-Packard Co. (HWP) to near-term neutral from accumulate.
Although the stocks aren't falling as hard as other techs Wednesday,
shares of IBM were still down 5.5% while   H-P's stock was off 4%.
(DLF)



9:43 (Dow Jones) The rout in stocks has helped Treasurys yield to
continue dropping. At 5.09%, the 10-year note is at its lowest yield
since April 1999. The DJIA is down about 1.9%, while the Nasdaq is down
5.6%. (SV)



9:39 (Dow Jones) Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Wells Fargo, is
cutting right to the chase. While others speculate whether the nation
will fall into a recession next year, he says we might, in fact, already
be there. "After all, the beginning of a recession is the end of a boom
when things feel pretty good," Sohn said. (KJT)



9:36 (Dow Jones) Goldman Sachs economists say cumulative easing will
be between 50 and 100 basis points and will be front loaded during first
half of 2001. (JC)



9:34 (Dow Jones) Nasdaq Composite drops below 2400 for first time
since June 15, 1999. (TG)



9:31 (Dow Jones) Nasdaq Composite down 4% at first trade. Off 105 at
2406. (TG)



9:30 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude futures are expected to open 50-75 cents
a barrel lower after API, DOE inventory reports showed a large build in
crude stocks last week. API's increase of 2.4 mln bbl and DOE's rise of
3.1 mln bbl bring US total inventories within a few mln bbl of levels a
year ago. Feb crude, down 74c to $27.22, has support at $27.07;
resistance is seen at $28.80. (MXF)



9:28 (Dow Jones) Seems to be a preponderance of early stock
indications Wednesday morning. JBL (21-24), VSH (16-18), GLW (58-61),
EMC (58-61), U (45-47), ADI (50-53), and FTU (25-27) among bigger names.
(TG)



9:23 (Dow Jones) Nymex natural gas seen opening 45-50 cents per MMBtu
higher to $9.55-$9.60, ahead of what is expected to be a bullish AGA
storage report, as market dealt with blistering cold forecasts. "The
sky's the limit," a trader says, "Ten-dollar gas is in the market's
sights." (JEE)



9:17 (Dow Jones) IPE Feb. Brent has shed 23 cents, broken through
psychological support at $24.50, and is trading at a new daily low on
the back of bearish DOE data, say brokers. DOEs show bigger crude build
than APIs (3.1M against 2.4M). Trading at $24.42. Next support $24.35.
(SMF)



9:13 (Dow Jones) George W. Bush will likely tap two people for cabinet
posts who have made shareholders happy over the past decade or so. In
picking Don Evans as his commerce secretary, Bush will be tapping a man
who grew the share price of his company, Tom Brown Inc. (TMBR), from
about $1.50 on a split-adjusted basis in 1985 to roughly $30 today.
Likewise, expected Treasury secretary Paul O'Neill has overseen a strong
rise in the share price of Alcoa (AA) during his 13-year tenure, but his
company has had a tougher 2000. Alcoa's shares were as high as $43.63
earlier this year, only to close at $33.50 yesterday. (RJH)



9:06 (Dow Jones) Sometime presidential hopeful and Forbes Editor in
Chief Steve Forbes was on TV last night adding his voice to the school
of - well, let's call them angry doves - who think Fed not only should
have cut rates but also that it shouldn't have raised rates at all in
2000. Why slow down economy and risk putting folks out of work, Forbes
asked? Meantime, our economy is definitely slowing now. Sidestepping
endless hawk/dove debate, a response to Forbes might be that if six rate
hikes didn't loosen drum-tight labor market, a few rate cuts may not
stop a recession. The lesson for stock investors: The business cycle
still matters. (GC)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwck04qth




 Legal, business pitfalls await Microsoft. 

382 words
20 December 2000
Channelnewsasia
CNEWAS
English
(c) 2000 MediaCorp News Pte Ltd. All Rights Reserved

 As the year 2000 comes to an end, Microsoft can finally wave goodbye to what was arguably the worst year in its 25-year history. 

 But the bad news is that the coming year does not look any better. 

 Already, Microsoft has warned that profits for its second quarter and full year will fall about five percent short of earlier estimates due to a slumping PC market. 

 The profit warning is Microsoft's first in 11 years and its second in its 14 years as a publicly-traded company. 

 The year 2000 has been a bad year for Microsoft and its co-founder Bill Gates is not going to look back and smile. 

 Not only did a federal judge order the company split in two, but its once-vibrant growth slowed to a more modest pace and its share price was cut in half. 

 Also, hackers have embarrassingly made off with company secrets. 

 Analysts say the greatest challenges for Microsoft are in both the business and legal arenas. 

 Consumer buying of PCs has slowed dramatically while sales of Windows 2000 have not gained traction yet. 

 Microsoft's two bright lights on the horizon are releases of the next version of Windows, dubbed Whistler, and an update to Office which are scheduled for the second half of next year. 

 But analysts are skeptical that Microsoft can deliver the goods on time to lift results. 

 It also remains to be seen whether Microsoft's ventures into handheld computers, interactive television, and video games will bear fruit. 

 Microsoft is also counting on businesses opening their wallets to upgrade their equipment. 

 Even if everything else falls into place, there is still the biggest cloud hanging over Microsoft's head - the US government's antitrust case that threatens to bust the company. 

 And although Republican George W. Bush's election victory is seen as a plus for Microsoft, it is unclear how much influence the new president can wield, since Microsoft has already been found to have violated antitrust law. 

 Some legal analysts have said a Bush administration would be more likely to cut a deal with Microsoft, but few see the company emerging entirely unscathed. The next phase is due on January 12 - that is when the government files its brief. 

Document cnewas0020010805dwck0036a




 UPDATE 2-Randstad restructures to boost profit, sells Lavold. 

375 words
19 December 2000
10:40
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 AMSTERDAM, Dec 19 (Reuters) - Dutch Randstad NV , the world's third biggest employment agency, on Tuesday unveiled steps to boost waning profits including the sale of its cleaning arm Lavold to Danish Iss . 

 Randstad said it had set aside 30 million euros ($27 million) for the restructuring, including cutting staff and closing "a couple of dozen" branches in the Netherlands. It also said it would drop its earlier plans to open new branches in Germany and the United States. 

 Randstad's shares reached a peak of 16.80 euros on Tuesday morning. At 1000 GMT they were trading just below that level at 16.75 euros, a 3.1 percent gain. After November's profit warning, the stock dropped sharply and steadily slumped to a three-year low of 15.90 euros last Friday. 

 "It's good Randstad is taking these measures as the sector isn't thriving. But for us Randstad is too much of a local player," said Hugo van Beusekom, a fund manager at SFB asset management, adding he no longer held the stock. 

 At the start of November, Randstad warned of a sharp fall in full-year 2000 profit to about 160 million-170 million euros from 207 million in 1999. 

 It said additional investments in new offices, automation and the introduction of new products and services were to blame and announced it was looking to cut overhead costs. 

 Randstad said the latest measures were expected to yield cost savings of 65 million euros in 2001. Their effect would mainly be seen in the second half of 2001. 

 "If spending 30 million will yield 65 million, that's a good investment. I'm positive about these measures," said Peter Bekius, a portfolio manager at Kempen & Co. 

 The Dutch firm said it expected the transaction value of the planned sale of Lavold to Danish cleaning and services group Iss to total 90 million euros. 

 A book profit expected to be 75 million euros from the sale, minus the 30 million restructuring charge, will be taken in 2000. This would boost earnings per share by 0.48 euros, Randstad said. 

 Company spokesman Maarten den Ottolander declined to give a forecast for next year. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcj09oqf




 Microsoft to  cut  costs while raising some salaries-WSJ. 

274 words
19 December 2000
06:31
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 19 (Reuters) - Software titan Microsoft Corp plans to cut costs throughout its businesses even as it boosts some employees' salaries to make sure they don't jump ship, the Wall Street Journal reported in its electronic edition Tuesday. 

 Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, has asked all his top executives to "significantly reduce" some expenditures budgeted for the fiscal year, the paper said, citing a memo. 

 In a seven-page memo sent to employees late last week, Ballmer was reported as saying: "We all have a big incentive as shareholders to reignite the kind of cost-conscious culture that marked Microsoft's earlier years." 

 To help the company continue to recruit and retain top people, Ballmer said it will "invest significantly" in base-salary raises for some high-performing employees, the paper reported. 

 Reviews for lower-level employees and those in middle management will start next month, it added. 

 Ballmer also laid out seven overarching business priorities for Microsoft, the paper said. 

 The priorities had been defined at a retreat of the board of directors in October, it said. These are the Windows operating systems, productivity programs, such as Office, enterprise server products and tools, the Microsoft Network, applications for small businesses, products for non-PC devices and the company's Internet technology platform, dubbed Microsoft.NET, the newspaper said. 

 Shares of Microsoft, which dropped last week after the company issued a rare profit warning, finished off $1-on the Nasdaq Monday. The stock has a 52-week high of $119-15/16 and a 52-week low of $47-3/4. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcj09nzt




 Randstad restructures to boost profit,sells Lavold. 

203 words
19 December 2000
07:39
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 AMSTERDAM, Dec 19 (Reuters) - Temporary employment agency Randstad NV on Tuesday launched a package of measures to improve waning profitability and said it would sell its cleaning division Lavold to Danish group Iss . Randstad, the world's third-largest staffing agency in terms of sales, earlier this year warned full-year earnings would fail to meet expectations, saying it was looking to cut overhead costs. 

 Randstad said it had set aside 30 million euros ($26.6 million) for the restructuring, that should yield cost savings of about 65 million euros in 2001 and would benefit earnings particularly in the second half of next year. 

 In addition Randstad said it expected the transaction value of the planned sale of Lavold to Iss to amount to 90 million euros. The expected book profit of 75 million euros would be marked as an extraordinary gain in 2000. 

 Last November, Randstad forecast full year net profit to drop to about 160 million-170 million euros from 207 million in 1999, due to additional investments in new offices, automation and the introduction of new products and services. The profit warning sent shares down to their lowest level in almost three years. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcj09nbd




 Dollar Tree shares slide 41 percent due to  profit warning . 

235 words
19 December 2000
16:16
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 19 (Reuters) - Shares of Dollar Tree Stores Inc. fell 41 percent in early trading on Tuesday after the discount variety store chain warned its fourth-quarter earnings will be well below Wall Street expectations due to disappointing holiday sales. 

 Shares of Dollar Tree were off $15 at $21-3/8 after falling to a new 52-week low of $20-3/4 early Tuesday on the Nasdaq. The stock price has a 12-month high of $48-1/4. 

 Mark D. Mandel, an analyst who covers Dollar Tree stock for The Robinson-Humphrey Co., said the stock had already reached its lowest price range and would not fall any further. "Once it has settled down, it will be OK," Mandel said. 

 Goldman Sachs cut earnings per share estimates for Dollar Tree to 60 cents from 70 cents for the fourth quarter and to $1.33 from $1.55 for 2001. 

 On Monday, the Chesapeake, Va.-based retailer of products such as housewares, toys and books priced at $1 each, said it expected earnings of 59 cents to 62 cents a diluted share, and revenue between $605 million and $615 million for the fourth quarter, which includes the critical final holiday shopping weeks of the year. 

 Analysts' consensus estimate was 70 cents a share for the quarter, according to First Call/ Thomson Financial. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcj09kb4




 RESEARCH ALERT - Banc of America cuts Pentair. 

199 words
19 December 2000
14:46
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 19 (Reuters) - Banc of America said it cut its rating and earnings estimates for Pentair Inc. Tuesday, a day after the diversified manufacturer issued a profit warning and said it will take a $25 million fourth-quarter charge, sell its equipment businesses and restructure its tools group. 

 In a research note, Banc of America said it downgraded Pentair from buy to market perform and reduced its earnings views to $2.30 per share from $2.72 for 2000 and to $2.40 from $3.50 for 2001. 

 In a note, Banc of America said it downgraded the stock because Monday's reduced guidance for the fourth quarter and 2001 was the company's third earnings warning this year. "In our opinion, management credibility is all but gone following three successive earnings misses," the note said, "and we see limited upside potential for the stock over the next six to 12 months." 

 The firm noted Pentair said it lowered its guidance because of unexpectedly weak market conditions and continued underperformance in its tools businesses. 

 "Reduced expectations notwithstanding," Banc of America said, "we remain cautious regarding the near-term earnings outlook." 

Document lba0000020010821dwcj09igk




 YEARAHEAD - Legal, business pitfalls await Microsoft. 

 By Scott Hillis 
1,008 words
19 December 2000
09:06
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 SEATTLE (Reuters) - The good news for Microsoft Corp. is that the world's top software company is finally waving goodbye to what was arguably the worst year in its 25-year history. 

 The bad news is that the coming year doesn't look any better. 

 Surely Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates won't look back on the year 2000 and smile. Not only did a federal judge order the company split in two, but its once-torrid growth slowed to a more modest pace, the share price was cut in half, and hackers embarrassingly made off with company secrets. 

 Microsoft had ended 1999 with a bang as its stock hit a high of $119-15/16 on Dec. 30. Last Friday, it was trading at $49-3/16, near a year low of $48-7/16. 

 But Microsoft's greatest challenges, in both the legal and business arenas, still lie ahead, analysts said. 

 "As I look out, I don't see anything to get really passionate about in the Microsoft story near-term," said Rick Sherlund, a Goldman Sachs analyst who is widely considered the top analyst on the company. 

 Many analysts had thought the Redmond, Wash.-based company, which makes the Windows operating system and Office package of business software, had turned a corner when it announced rosy results for its first fiscal quarter in October. 

 But those hopes were dashed last week when Microsoft warned that profits for its second quarter and full year would fall about 5 percent short of earlier estimates due to a slumping PC market. 

 OFF TO BAD START 

 The profit warning was Microsoft's first in 11 years, and only its second in its 14 years as a publicly traded company, and set a glum tone heading into 2001. 

 "The first half of the year is very risky," said Rob Enderle, an analyst with Giga Information Group, a technology consultancy. "There's a lot more downward pressure on revenue than upward pressure." 

 The problem is that consumer buying of PCs has slowed dramatically while sales of Windows 2000, Microsoft's flagship operating system for powering business computers and networks, hasn't gained traction yet due to the long-time corporate customer's need to evaluate and carry out such an upgrade. 

 "At a foundation level, certainly Windows 2000 has to do better for Microsoft's fortunes to turn back toward the positive," said Dwight Davis, an analyst with Summit Strategies. 

 Windows 2000, unveiled in February, is the springboard for Microsoft's sweeping .NET plan to weave the Internet into all its products and eventually start selling software as a subscription service rather than on boxed CD-ROMs. 

 But although the company trumpets .NET as a new phase in computing and the Internet, it must win over thousands of independent software developers to help bring that vision into sharper focus. 

 "The company is still struggling with a clear-cut definition of what .NET is and what it does," Davis said. "It is not a bad unifying vision and initiative but because of the breadth and complexity, it is very hard to articulate." 

 WHISTLER WHILE YOU WORK 

 Two bright lights on the horizon are releases of the next version of Windows, dubbed Whistler, and an update to Office. 

 "These are each very compelling products that will showcase the excitement of the personal computer. It's up to us to do a great job bringing these two break-through products to market with a great deal of enthusiasm," Microsoft Chief Financial Officer John Connors told analysts last week. 

 Those are scheduled for the second half of next year, but analysts are skeptical that Microsoft, with its history of pushing back product release dates, can deliver the goods on time to lift results. 

 "I'm a little bit leery of predicting when Microsoft's products will actually arrive. They have a tendency to slip a little bit," Davis said. 

 It also remains to be seen whether Microsoft's ventures into handheld computers, interactive television, and video games will bear fruit. 

 Many seem to be counting on U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan pulling the U.S. economy back from the brink of an all-out recession next year. Microsoft is counting on businesses opening their wallets to upgrade their equipment. A credit crunch won't help. 

 "A better economy is going to help (Microsoft), which is more a function of Greenspan," said Scott McAdams, president of Seattle-based brokerage McAdams Wright Ragen. 

 McAdams said he expected Microsoft's results to improve in 2001 since they will be held up against this year's ho-hum numbers, which were compared against those racked up amid the heady days of the dot-com gold rush. 

 GEORGE W. TO THE RESCUE? 

 Even if everything else falls into place, it will be impossible to ignore the biggest cloud hanging over Microsoft's head - the U.S. government's antitrust case that threatens to bust it up. 

 Republican George W. Bush's election victory is seen as a plus for the company, but it is unclear how much influence the new president can wield, since Microsoft has already been found to have violated antitrust law. 

 Some legal analysts have said a Bush administration would be more likely to cut a deal with Microsoft, but few see the company emerging entirely unscathed. 

 "At the very least, that's a distraction for their executives, and while the election of Bush indicates that the remedies will be less harsh, there will still be remedies, so they still have to deal with that," Enderle said. 

 Barring any settlement, the case is almost certain to be appealed to the Supreme Court. 

 In a brief filed with a U.S. appeals court in November, Microsoft denied it held a monopoly or had violated antitrust law, and asked that the breakup ruling be thrown out. 

 The next phase in the case is due on Jan. 12, when the government is to file its brief to the court. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcj09hyk




 Business; Financial Desk 
 Markets Time Warner  Profit Warning  Prompts Sell-Off Media: Announcement that growth will miss estimates causes company's shares and those of AOL to drop more than 13%. 

 EDMUND SANDERS 
TIMES STAFF WRITER
637 words
19 December 2000
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-1
English
 Copyright 2000 Los Angeles Times 

 Media giant Time Warner Inc. warned Monday that earnings growth for the year would fall short of expectations. The announcement caused the company's shares--and those of its merger partner America Online Inc.--to drop more than 13%. 

 New York-based Time Warner told investors that disappointing box office results, weaker music sales and an industrywide slowdown in cable advertising have cut into this year's profits more deeply than anticipated. Rather than growing by 12% to 13% as predicted, earnings for the year will rise by 11%, the company said. 

 Time Warner officials laid much of the blame on the poor performance of "Little Nicky," the Adam Sandler film that has grossed only a fraction of his past hits. 

 The disclosure comes less than a week after investors celebrated the long-awaited approval by the Federal Trade Commission of the AOL-Time Warner merger. Monday's stock sell-off shaved an additional $14 billion off the value of that deal, now estimated at $89 billion. When it was announced Jan. 10, the all-stock deal was worth $163 billion. 

 "People are resetting their calculations as to the value of the combined companies," said Rob Martin, analyst at investment bank Friedman, Billings, Ramsey & Co. 

 Time Warner shares fell $9.47 Monday to close at $63.25. AOL shares closed at $42.24, down $6.72. Both companies are traded on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 A Time Warner spokesman stressed that post-merger earnings projections for the combined companies remain unchanged. In addition, AOL, based in Dulles, Va., affirmed that its business units are on track to report record growth in the fourth quarter and that its advertising and e-commerce revenue remain in line with Wall Street expectations. 

 But concerns about a slowdown in Internet advertising have already depressed AOL shares, which have lost about one-third of their value this year. 

 Martin attributed both companies' problems to a slowing economy but predicted that the merger will enable them to fare better in a recession, thanks to a more diversified advertising base. 

 Nevertheless, the earnings slow-down will increase pressure on Time Warner and AOL to quickly demonstrate the synergies of their merger, increasing the likelihood of job cuts, analysts say. 

 Already, anxiety is high at the companies' headquarters offices in New York and Dulles. Workers at Time Warner cable news channel CNN also are bracing for layoffs. A Time Warner spokesman declined to comment on possible job cuts. 

 The merger, which awaits approval by the Federal Communications Commission, is expected to close by January. 

 Separately Monday, Time Warner said it has spent $570 million to buy out its partners in the broadband Internet service provider Road Runner, a joint venture with AT&T Corp., Microsoft Corp. and Compaq Computer Corp. 

 The deal allows Time Warner to terminate its contract early with Road Runner, which has been the exclusive provider of high-speed Internet access on Time Warner's cable lines. Under the terms of last week's FTC agreement, AOL Time Warner promised to begin leasing its cable lines to rival Internet service providers, such as EarthLink Inc. 

 The Road Runner restructuring also fulfills a pledge by AT&T, made during its acquisition of Media One Group, that it would divest its 25% stake in the ISP. Microsoft and Compaq each owned a 10% stake. 

 Time Warner plans to continue offering Road Runner service as a separate Internet brand, potentially in competition with AOL. 

 As part of the restructuring, Time Warner would take a one-time, fourth-quarter charge of $20 million to $40 million. 

Document latm000020010808dwcj02iku




Business
Polaroid produces dark snapshot

GREG GATLIN   
374 words
19 December 2000
Boston Herald
BHLD
ALL
19
English
Copyright © 2000 Boston Herald, All rights reserved.  Distributed by NewsBank, Inc.   

Polaroid Corp. yesterday joined the ranks of corporations warning of slowing profits, slashing fourth-quarter earnings expectations and outlining another round of cost cuts to respond to a gloomy outlook for 2001.

A major shortfall in sales of Polaroid's instant film led the company to reduce fourth-quarter revenue projections by as much as $70 million and lower operating profit forecasts by as much as $45 million. Polaroid said it expects to post break-even results in the fourth quarter before interest, taxes and nonrecurring items would produce a net loss. Wall Street analysts expected Polaroid to produce 52 cents a share on the bottom line for the quarter, according to First Call/Thomson Financial.

It earned 64 cents a share in the year-earlier period.

But after interest expenses and real estate income are factored in, Polaroid will likely report a loss of $11 million, or 16 cents a share, for the period, said Pete Enderlin, an analyst with Ryan, Beck & Co.

"The hard part is to figure out why things are so bad that they would be breaking even on an operating basis in the biggest quarter of the year," Enderlin said.

Polaroid's profit warning followed on the heels of a warning from Eastman Kodak Co.

Both firms said they've been hit by a consumer spending slowdown that has caused big retailers to cut back on film stocks. Judith Boynton, Polaroid's chief financial officer, said the bulk of its revenue and profit shortfall would come from its traditional film business, key to Polaroid's success.

"I am not optimistic about the economic environment next year," said Gary DiCamillo, Polaroid's chief executive.

Yesterday, DiCamillo outlined off-setting steps he plans, including reducing inventory and debt, accelerating sales of a prime 56-acre property and plant in Waltham and other real estate assets.

He said Polaroid will reduce working capital and cut manufacturing and overhead costs, while developing new digital products.

DiCamillo said the company needs to see how it fares in the next two weeks before outlining any specific plans for restructuring next year.

Traditionally, the week before and the week after Christmas are Polaroid's biggest retail sales periods.

Document BHLD000020110827dwcj00skl




 Companies: Ballmer Plans To Slice Costs At Microsoft --- CEO Also Offers Raises To Keep Some From Leaving 

 By Rebecca Buckman 
Staff Reporter
239 words
19 December 2000
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
UK5
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Microsoft Corp. plans to cut costs throughout its businesses but is boosting some employees' salaries to make sure they don't jump ship. 

 Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive officer, has asked all his top executives to "significantly reduce" some expenditures budgeted for the fiscal year, he said in a memo sent to employees late last week. 

 "We all have a big incentive as shareholders to re-ignite the kind of cost-conscious culture that marked Microsoft's earlier years." 

 Mr. Ballmer, who usually sends a similar, goal-setting memo to his senior managers each February, also laid out seven overarching business priorities for the company. They include pushing forward with new Internet initiatives and computing devices, as well as continuing to expand older products like Windows and Office, which still supply the bulk of the company's revenue. 

 The memo was distributed last Thursday, the same day the company announced that it would fall short of analysts' revenue and profit estimates for its current fiscal quarter, which ends Dec. 31, 2000. It was the first early profit warning from Microsoft since 1989, and sent rumors that the company would depart from history even more dramatically by announcing a major layoff. 

 Mr. Ballmer rejected that possibility: "To be clear, resource reductions don't translate into employee layoffs." 

Document wsje000020010814dwcj00jxn




 Marketing & Media 
 Time Warner Warns of Lower Earnings 

 By Martin Peers 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
1,259 words
19 December 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
B10
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Corrections & Amplifications 

 TIME WARNER Inc. measures its results using Ebita, which is earnings before interest, taxes and amortization. A Marketing & Media article yesterday about a profit warning from the company incorrectly used Ebitda, or earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. After Time Warner merges with America Online Inc., the combined company will report Ebitda. (WSJ Dec. 20, 2000) 

 NEW YORK -- Just two months after dismissing talk of an advertising slowdown, media company Time Warner Inc. warned that its fourth-quarter earnings would be lower than expected as a result of weaker ad revenue from its cable networks and a downturn in both its movie and music units. 

 Time Warner also announced details of a long-planned restructuring of its Road Runner high-speed Internet access partnership. The restructuring will ensure that Road Runner's exclusive right to offer Internet service on Time Warner's cable systems will expire earlier than the end of 2001 as it is now scheduled. That will allow rival Internet service providers to gain access to Time Warner's cable systems, which is a condition of regulatory approval for Time Warner's pending merger with America Online Inc. 

 Coming weeks before the AOL deal is scheduled to close, yesterday's profit warning raised questions about whether the combined AOL Time Warner could meet the aggressive growth targets it has outlined for next year. It also sent stocks of both companies plunging, with Time Warner dropping $9.47, or 13%, to $63.25, and AOL falling $6.72, or 14%, to $42.24 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. 

 AOL and Time Warner both said they weren't changing their projections for 12% to 15% growth in revenue and 30% growth in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to $11 billion for the combined company in 2001. AOL said in yesterday's same announcement that its fourth-quarter advertising and commerce revenues were "on track" to meet Wall Street expectations. 

 Still, some on Wall Street said Time Warner's profit warning meant the new company would have to move quickly to address problem areas in Time Warner's businesses. "They're really going to have to hone in on the areas that took them by surprise," said Jessica Reif Cohen, an analyst with Merrill Lynch & Co., particularly Cable News Network, which has been losing audience share to rivals such as News Corp.'s Fox News Channel. 

 Time Warner said it was reducing expectations for growth in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to 11% for 2000, down from 12% to 13% previously. As Time Warner had reported growth of 12% in Ebitda for the first nine months of the year, the revision implies the company expects to increase Ebitda only 7% to 8% in the fourth quarter, to $1.5 billion to $1.6 billion, analysts said. 

 Time Warner also said it remained "comfortable that it will post annual growth in total advertising revenue in the midteens," implying growth of roughly 15%. Still, that was two percentage points below the growth of 17% that Time Warner Chairman Gerald Levin projected two months ago at the third-quarter earnings briefing. 

 The company blamed the earnings shortfall on the "disappointing box office performance" of its recent movie release "Little Nicky," "weaker than anticipated music sales" and "recent softness in cable network advertising revenues in line with prevailing market conditions." Some media companies have warned of signs of a slowdown in advertising in recent months, but Mr. Levin had insisted at the last earnings briefing that such talk was "spurious" and didn't apply to Time Warner. 

 While Time Warner wouldn't elaborate on the profit warning, several analysts said the bulk of the roughly $80 million shortfall was due to the movie and music units. "Little Nicky," which is rumored to have cost $75 million to $95 million, may have lost as much as $50 million. 

 Even as the companies' stocks dropped sharply after the profitwarning, Moody's Investors Service said it raised the credit ratings on both AOL and Time Warner, reflecting the rating agency's expectation that their merger will close. It raised AOL from Ba1, below investment grade, several notches higher to Baa1, while Time Warner's rating was raised to Baa1 from Baa3. 

 Meanwhile, Time Warner and AT&T Corp. announced the dissolution of the partnership that owns Road Runner. Time Warner will emerge from the dissolution owning 100% of Road Runner with its cable partner Advance/Newhouse, up from 55% owned between the two companies currently. 

 Time Warner said it and Advance/Newhouse would pay $570 million in cash for the restructuring of Road Runner, most of which will be used to buy out Microsoft Corp. and Compaq Computer Corp.'s total 20% stake in Road Runner. 

 AT&T will take certain assets and its roughly 345,000 subscribers in exchange for giving up its 25% stake and will pay about $230 million toward the restructuring of Road Runner and the buyout of Microsoft and Compaq, according to a person familiar with the deal. AT&T declined to comment on financial details of the restructuring. Time Warner will take a one-time charge of $20 million to $40 million in connection with the transaction. 

 The ownership streamlining will allow Time Warner to manage Road Runner, rather than managing it jointly with AT&T. Time Warner said sole management would enable it to be more aggressive in pursuing "the growing business opportunities in high-speed Internet services." 

 In Washington, the Federal Communications Commission is expected to decide by early January whether to approve the AOL-Time Warner merger -- the last regulatory approval needed before the deal can close. The FCC is expected to seek only modest additional conditions on the deal, aimed at opening AOL's popular instant-messaging service. The FCC is expected to ask AOL to agree to an open standard for instant messaging, or require that if the combined companies enhance the service with high-speed features such as video, they must also open the system to at least one competitor. 

 Major Internet service providers yesterday said the FCC proposal appears to fall short of what is needed to ensure healthy competition in the face of AOL's dominance of the powerful new technology. A Microsoft executive said that a true open standard is crucial to continued innovation and competition. Meanwhile, the software giant confirmed a report on a news site run by Cnet Networks Inc. that Bill Gates had revisited the issue in conversations with FCC members, including Chairman William Kennard, late last week. 

 --- 

 John R. Wilke in Washington and Deborah Solomon in New York contributed to this article. 


---
                    Time for a Warning
  Time Warner cut its earnings outlook and said it would restructure
the Road Runner high-speed Internet service.
  Earnings
  -- Reduced 2000 EBITA growth expectations to 11% from 12% to 13%.
  -- Blamed soft cable advertising, weak music sales and the poor
performance of the movie "Little Nicky."
  Road Runner
  -- Will buy out Microsoft and Compaq's 20% stake in the service and
manage its operations.
  -- Will take a $20 million to $40 million fourth-quarter
restructuring charge.
  -- Will end Road Runner's exclusivity on Time Warner Cable and open
its cable lines to multiple ISPs.
  -- Named Time Warner Cable Southwest Texas Division President Jeffrey
M. King president of Road Runner.
  Source: The company


Document j000000020010807dwcj00x9j




 Microsoft Plans To  Cut  Costs, Not Salaries 

 By Rebecca Buckman 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
754 words
19 December 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
A3
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Microsoft Corp., reeling from slower-than-expected sales of its core products, plans to cut costs throughout its businesses even as it boosts some employees' salaries to make sure they don't jump ship. 

 Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, has asked all his top executives to "significantly reduce" some expenditures budgeted for the fiscal year. 

 In a seven-page memo sent to employees late last week, he wrote: "We all have a big incentive as shareholders to reignite the kind of cost-conscious culture that marked Microsoft's earlier years." 

 Mr. Ballmer, who usually sends a similar, goal-setting memo to his senior managers each February, also laid out seven overarching business priorities for the company. They include pushing forward with new Internet initiatives and computing devices, as well as continuing to expand older products such as Windows and Office, which still supply the bulk of the revenue. 

 The memo was distributed last Thursday, the same day the Redmond, Wash., company announced that it would fall short of analysts' revenue and profit estimates for its current fiscal quarter, which ends Dec. 31. It was the first early profit warning from Microsoft since 1989, and sent rumors that the company would depart from history even more dramatically by announcing a major layoff. 

 In his memo, Mr. Ballmer rejected that possibility. "To be clear, resource reductions don't translate into employee layoffs," he wrote, though adding that the company will "reduce unfilled head count." 

 A Microsoft spokeswoman noted the company has about 5,000 unfilled jobs. She called the memo "just a candid conversation between Steve and our employees about goals and priorities for the next year," aimed partly at reassuring them that their jobs were secure. "It's not a reorganization; it's not a strategic shift," she stressed. 

 Microsoft's shares, stung by its antitrust woes and, more recently, slow demand for PCs, have tumbled nearly 59% since the start of the year. As of 4 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, Microsoft fell $1.38, or 2.8%, to $47.81, near a 52-week low. 

 In his memo, Mr. Ballmer acknowledged bluntly that the steep drop "makes employees, new and old, more sensitive to cash compensation. Stock options," he wrote, "remain a great long-term opportunity." But "reality has set in -- here and industrywide." 

 To help the company continue to recruit and retain top people, Mr. Ballmer said it will "invest significantly" in base-salary raises for some high-performing employees. Reviews for lower-level employees and those in middle management will start next month. 

 The seven business priorities, intended to guide Microsoft's business into the next fiscal year and beyond, had been defined at a board of directors retreat in October. They are its Windows operating systems, productivity programs, such as Office, enterprise server products and tools, the Microsoft Network, applications for small businesses, products for non-PC devices and the company's Internet technology platform, dubbed Microsoft.NET. 

 Mr. Ballmer was particularly bullish in his memo about the next version of Windows, called Whistler, and the next version of Office, called Office 10. He also disclosed a new version of Microsoft's SQL Server database product -- code-named "Yukon"  --  that he says will be "key to our next-generation storage, database file system, e-mail and user interface work." Microsoft is battling Oracle Corp. and International Business Machines Corp. in the critical database market. 

 Despite the promising products, Mr. Ballmer wrote that "the law of large numbers" makes it difficult to expand Windows and Office as fast as Microsoft has in the past, since both franchises already are so dominant. 

 Securities analysts have been even less upbeat lately, at least for the short term. In a research note issued Friday, after Microsoft's profit warning, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst Rick Sherlund said he looks for "very little, if any, earnings growth over the next year." He added that he "was not certain" that Whistler or Office 10 "will be any more compelling catalysts." 

 David Readerman, who follows Microsoft for Thomas Weisel Partners, said yesterday he wasn't surprised by Mr. Ballmer's edict, since "you've got to bring the near-term business reality in line with the cost structure." Divisions ripe for better cost control might be Microsoft's Internet businesses, as well as futuristic projects not central to the company's core Microsoft.NET initiatives, he said. 

Document j000000020010807dwcj00x8i




 Microsoft Plans to Reduce Costs, Boost Salaries in Rebound Effort 

377 words
19 December 2000
05:19
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Microsoft Corp., reeling from slower-than-expected sales of its core products, plans to cut costs throughout its businesses even as it boosts some employees' salaries to make sure they don't jump ship, Tuesday's Wall Street Journal reported. 

 Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, has asked all his top executives to "significantly reduce" some expenditures budgeted for the fiscal year. 

 In a seven-page memo sent to employees late last week, he wrote: "We all have a big incentive as shareholders to reignite the kind of cost-conscious culture that marked Microsoft's earlier years." 

 Mr. Ballmer, who usually sends a similar, goal-setting memo to his senior managers each February, also laid out seven overarching business priorities for the company. They include pushing forward with new Internet initiatives and computing devices, as well as continuing to expand older products such as Windows and Office, which still supply the bulk of the revenue. 

 The memo was distributed last Thursday, the same day the Redmond, Wash., company announced that it would fall short of analysts' revenue and profit estimates for its current fiscal quarter, which ends Dec. 31. It was the first early profit warning from Microsoft (MSFT) since 1989, and sent rumors that the company would depart from history even more dramatically by announcing a major layoff. 

 In his memo, Mr. Ballmer rejected that possibility. "To be clear, resource reductions don't translate into employee layoffs," he wrote, though adding that the company will "reduce unfilled head count." 

 A Microsoft spokeswoman noted the company has about 5,000 unfilled jobs. She called the memo "just a candid conversation between Steve and our employees about goals and priorities for the next year," aimed partly at reassuring them that their jobs were secure. "It's not a reorganization; it's not a strategic shift," she stressed. 

 Microsoft's shares, stung by its antitrust woes and, more recently, slow demand for PCs, have tumbled nearly 59% since the start of the year. As of 4 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, Microsoft fell $1.38, or 2.8%, to $47.81, near a 52-week low. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dwcj01mal




 UPDATE 4-DaimlerChrysler cuts forecast, says worse to come. 

 By Madeline Chambers 
793 words
18 December 2000
17:51
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 FRANKFURT, Dec 18 (Reuters) - DaimlerChrysler , burdened by ballooning losses at its Chrysler unit, delivered shareholders another blow on Monday, slashing its operating profit outlook for 2000 and warning of a tougher year ahead. 

 The German automaker gave a forecast which indicated that its 2000 operating profit adjusted for one-off income will amount to between 5 billion euros ($4.43 billion) and 5.5 billion euros, down from 10.3 billion euros in 1999. 

 The fall stems from its ailing U.S. Chrysler unit, where fourth-quarter losses are set to reach about $1.25 billion, up from $512 million in the third quarter, data released by the company showed. 

 DaimlerChrysler, whose shares hit a four-year low in November on worries about mounting losses at Chrysler and the cost of a U.S. lawsuit filed against it, blamed a downturn in the U.S. market and warned that 2001 could be worse. 

 In late October the company had said Chrysler would return to profitability in the fourth quarter. Few analysts now expect Chrysler to be profitable before 2002. 

 Profits earned earlier this year would still enable Chrysler to post an operating profit of about 500 million euros for 2000, the group said. 

 "It sends up a warning shot," said Salomon Smith Barney analyst Michael Ward. "If somebody had said a year ago that Chrysler would lose $1 billion in the fourth quarter in a record year, you would have told them they were on drugs." 

 Total operating profit, including 4.5 billion euros mainly from the consolidation of its Dasa aerospace unit into European aerospace group EADS, would total between 9.5 and 10 billion euros, the group said in a letter to shareholders. 

 NO RESPITE IN 2001 

 But the company sees no respite. 

 "In 2001 we believe that the competitive market environment will continue to intensify and that our underlying financial performance, particularly in the U.S., will reflect this," Chairman Juergen Schrempp said in the letter. 

 "Indeed, if the automobile industry, especially in the U.S. becomes weaker in 2001, we will face a year which is even more challenging than 2000." 

 DaimlerChrysler cited competitive pressure in the U.S. market, particulary the strong rise in sales incentives which it said were over one third higher than a year ago. 

 It also said the launch of several new products in a short space of time had been costly, particulary soon after offering discounts on the old product to clear stock levels. 

 "As expected, the situation (at Chrylser) looks as if it's worse than previously anticipated ... the question is how long it will all go on," said Pia Christina Schulze at Merck Finck & Co., who has the share on "underperform". She said she expected the stock to trade in a range of 40-50 euros in the short-term. 

 On Friday, Chrysler said it would idle three U.S. plants and part of a fourth in early Janaury in an effort to cut bloated inventories. It has been forced to raise incentives in a bid to shift piling stocks, squeezing already tight profit margins. 

 Schrempp, whose own position is at stake, fired James Holden as head of Chrysler last month and replaced him with stallwart, Dieter Zetsche who will outline a restructuring programme in February 2001. 

 The company confirmed it will take a one-off cost to pay for the programm, but didn't specify the size of the charge. 

 SHARES FALL 

 DaimlerChrysler shares were down 1.69 percent at 47.22 euros at about 1640 GMT, ignoring a recovery on the main DAX index. "I'm still not buying," said Frank Gaensch, a fund manager at Commerz International Capital Management. 

 "I still see some downside... and it's going to be impossible for (Chrysler) to be profitable before 2002." 

 Automakers on both sides of the Atlantic are grappling with overcapacity and sagging demand. 

 General Motors last week announced job cuts in Britain and Ford Motor Co plans major cost reductions to rein in losses in Europe. 

 News of Chrysler's troubles, caused mainly by fierce competition in a tight U.S. market, sent DaimlerChrysler's stock spiraling to a four-year low of 44.01 euros on November 30. Shareholders' frustration was highlighted when major shareholder Kirk Kerkorian tried to sue senior management at DaimlerChrysler for $9 billion in November. He said Schrempp misled investors during the 1998 merger between Daimler Benz and Chrysler dubbed by Schrempp as a "marriage made in heaven". 

 The company also said that Japan's Mitsubishi Motors Corp, in which DaimlerChrysler has a 34 percent stake, will refocus its business in the coming year. (Additional reporting by Ben Klayman in Detroit). 

Document lba0000020010821dwci09uje




 RESEARCH ALERT-Merrill cuts Henkel to "neutral". 

130 words
18 December 2000
15:42
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 FRANKFURT, Dec 18 (Reuters) - Merrill Lynch said on Monday it had cut its intermediate rating for German household chemicals maker Henkel KGaA to "neutral" from "accumulate" after a profit warning by U.S.-based Clorox . 

 Henkel holds a 26.7 percent stake in Clorox and consolidates its stake as income from investments. 

 Merrill Lynch said in a research note it had decreased its 2000 earnings-per-share forecast for Henkel by three percent to 3.06 euros. 

 It cut its 2001 EPS forecast by eight percent to 3.43 euros and its 2002 forecast by six percent to 4.15 euros. 

 Clorox said last week it would miss its profit estimates in the fiscal second quarter and the rest of the fiscal year. 

Document lba0000020010821dwci09twf




Abreast of the Market
 Stocks Sink Amid Heavy Volume In Wake of Microsoft Profit News   

 By Robert O'Brien   
Dow Jones Newswires
876 words
18 December 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
C2
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

 NEW YORK -- Earnings worries cropped up again Friday, sending market averages down sharply to cap another week of steep losses.   

 Shares of Microsoft (Nasdaq) fell 6.31 to 49.19, and shares of the software giant sank to a 52-week low of 47.75 intraday. The loss came after the company issued a warning late Thursday that profit and revenue for the quarter would come in below analysts' projections. Microsoft blamed the slump on demand for personal computers.   

 The weakness, though hardly surprising, given the spate of warnings from personal-computer and semiconductor manufacturers, struck at the market's already rattled confidence. Shares of EMC fell 6.50 to 68.13, while Network Appliance (Nasdaq) sank 3.94 to 65.19, and NetIQ (Nasdaq) dropped 10.19 to 83.81.   

 The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 75.24, or 2.76%, to close at 2653.27, back near its closing low for the year, set Nov. 30 at 2597.93. On the week, the index tumbled 264.16 points, a decline of 9.05%, the sixth-largest weekly percentage drop ever for the index.   

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average finished Friday's session down 240.03 points, a loss of 2.25%, at 10434.96. For the week, it fell 277.95 points, or 2.59%.   

 Analysts suggested the brutal sell-off of the last several months may be approaching a finale. But they also cautioned that the final spiral of declines could turn out to be painful.   

 Trading volume, inflated by the quarterly expiration of options and futures, reached a record in the session. New York Stock Exchange volume totaled 1.55 billion shares, up from the previous best of 1.5 billion shares, established April 4.   

 Nasdaq Stock Market volume totaled 2.58 billion shares, its third-heaviest activity ever. Microsoft accounted for nearly 160 million of those shares; three other companies -- Sun Microsystems, Oracle and Cisco -- also broke the 100 million-share mark for the day.   

 Shares of Oracle (Nasdaq), the database-software maker, for example, finished Friday's trading ahead 1.06 to 28.56, after the company came through late Thursday with earnings that beat forecasts by a penny a share, and with an upbeat projection for the current quarter.   

 Adobe Systems (Nasdaq), which fell 13% Thursday after an analyst at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter warned the software sector could be hobbled by economic slowing, snapped back Friday, gaining 5.13 to 62.44. After the close of trading Thursday, the company posted fiscal first-quarter results that beat forecasts, and reiterated its earlier guidance for revenue in the next quarter and 2001 fiscal year.   

 Despite the isolated successes, technology issues more typically posted miserable losses as they either admitted to or became suspected of earnings shortfalls.   

 Shares of Artesyn Technologies (Nasdaq), for example, a Boca Raton, Fla., maker of power-supply products for communications systems, sank 9.14 to 15.50, dropping to a 52-week low. That came after the company lowered fourth-quarter revenue projections. Earlier this week, an analyst at Thomas Weisel Partners had issued a cautious note on the company.   

 Shares of Sun Microsystems (Nasdaq) dropped back to lows for the year, falling 1.25 to 30.44, after Bear Stearns cut its rating on the stock.   

 The profit poison also could be detected in areas outside technology. Shares of Clorox dropped 3.94 to 30.06, and stumbled to a 52-week low intraday, after the Oakland, Calif., consumer-products company warned late Thursday that its earnings and sales would fall short of expectations.   

 Among consumer-product names, shares of Procter & Gamble took a whipping too, falling 2.13 to 71.38, after Lehman Brothers made some cautious comments. Lehman also issued a research note regarding Gillette, which eased 94 cents to 33.81.   

 Faced with all the losing issues, investors did move into some consumer issues that seemed to offer some protection from the profit hiccups.   

 Shares of Adolph Coors finished 3.50 higher at 79, while Anheuser-Busch added 1.44 to 48.88. Some health-care service providers also gained in the session. Priority Healthcare (Nasdaq) added 5.56 to 32.63 on Nasdaq; Province Healthcare (Nasdaq) gained 3.44 to 36.88; Trigon Healthcare moved ahead 1.19 to 69.06.   

 CMGI (Nasdaq) declined 78 cents to 8.28, falling to a 52-week low. The Andover, Mass., Internet incubator reported results late Thursday that showed a steep, though narrower than expected, loss for the fiscal first quarter. The company said it plans to continue to consolidate units to stem losses.   

 United Parcel Service lost 1.25 to 57.44, while FedEx fell 2.77 to 39.20. Both shipping-services companies guided analysts' profit forecasts lower this week. An analyst at Banc of America cut the rating on UPS.   

 Guidant declined 1.19 to 50.81. Credit Suisse First Boston cut its earnings forecasts on the Indianapolis medical-device developer, saying it expects the company to lose market share to Johnson & Johnson in the cardiovascular stent market. Johnson & Johnson fell 69 cents to 98.56.   

Document j000000020010807dwci00x5o


 DoubleClick loses main political PR expert in DC. 

 By CLAIRE ATKINSON. 
270 words
18 December 2000
PR Week US
PRWKUS
3
English
(c) 2000 Haymarket Business Publications Limited   No part of this data may be reproduced without prior written permission of the owner.

 NEW YORK: After just one year at the Web ad network Double-Click, political communications expert Josh Isay has quit. 

 Isay would not comment on where he's going next, but is expected to depart in January. Friends say a move back to the political arena is a possibility. 

 DoubleClick now needs a new heavy hitter in Washington, DC to work alongside New York-based director of corporate communications, Jennifer Blum. 

 Isay began work as director of public policy and government affairs for DoubleClick just a month before it became embroiled in a huge public debate about information privacy at the beginning of 2000. 

 DoubleClick planned to connect names and addresses from a newly acquired database with information gleaned about individuals' online activities. 

 The ad network - which sells ads on behalf of affiliate Web sites and provides Web users with ads targeted toward their interests - joined forces with other ad-oriented dot-com firms to form a lobby group: the Network Advertising Initiative. 

 Isay represented the firm's interests in front of the Federal Trade Commission which was considering online privacy legislation. DoubleClick worked with Abernathy MacGregor Group to establish a privacy panel and other ways of reassuring the public about the use of so-called 'cookie' files. 

 Before joining DoubleClick, Isay managed Sen. Chuck Schumer's (D-NY) campaign and then became his chief of staff. Isay also worked as communications director on Bob Toricelli's 1996 Senate race. 

 Earlier this month Double-Click cut around 120 staffers and issued a profit warning because of weakened ad spending. 

Document prwkus0020010815dwci001ji




 Business Brief -- Tanning Technology Corp.: Issuance of  Profit Warning  Sends Stock Into 27% Slide 

159 words
18 December 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
B18
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Tanning Technology Corp.'s share price slid 27% following a warning that fourth-quarter profit would be lower than expected. Citing a slowing economic climate that has made companies more cautious about technology spending, the Denver information-technology services company expects to report revenue of $16 million and a loss of eight cents a share, before special charges. Analysts had expected the company to post a profit of three cents a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. The company expects to record charges ranging from $6.8 million to $7.3 million for employee-related expenses such as retention initiatives, an accounts-receivable write-off and the net reduction of a deferred-tax asset. Tanning Technology reported its profit warning Thursday after 4 p.m. Nasdaq Stock Market trading. In 4 p.m. trading Friday, its shares fell $1.38 to $3.81 each. 

Document j000000020010807dwci00x67




 FFBN Tech Wrap: Microsoft  Profit Warning  Sends Stks Down 

742 words
18 December 2000
13:01
Federal Filings Newswires
FF
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


ISSUER: FEDERAL FILINGS
SYMBOL: X.FFI
        (This market wrap was originally published Friday evening.)



        WASHINGTON (FFBN)--Yet another lower-than-expected earnings forecast,
this time around from Microsoft Corp., sent technology stocks sharply lower
Friday.  The announcement - combined with several ratings downgrades - sent
the Federal Filings Business News Technology Index down 948.60, or 4.4%, to
20,571.37.
        Microsoft's loss of 6.31, or 11%, helped pulled the FFBN Software
Index down 248.72, or 4.6%, to 5152.37.  After the market close on Thursday,
the software giant warned that its fiscal second-quarter earnings and revenue
would fall as much as 6% short of expectations.  The news signaled that
businesses, like consumers, are reducing their computer technology purchases.
 Robertson Stephens cut its rating on Microsoft to long-term attractive from
buy.
        Elsewhere in the software sector, shares of PeopleSoft Inc. tumbled
3.69, or 8.6%, to 39.19, and Agile Software Corp. shares dropped 4.56, or
7.4%, to 57.06.  Bucking the downward trend, shares of Oracle Corp. stepped
up 1.06, or 3.9%, to 28.56.
        The FFBN Computer Index fell 155.72, or 4.4%, to 3356.42.
Microsoft's announcement only amplified worries in the PC sector, which has
fallen in the past few weeks on poor earnings forecasts and lower demand.
International Business Machines Inc. shares skidded 4.63, or 5%, to 87.81,
and Hewlett-Packard Co. shares weakened by 1.88, or 5.6%, to end at 31.63.
Compaq Computer Corp. shares declined 1.35, or 7.2%, to 17.35.
        Storage maker EMC Corp. also saw its shares react to Microsoft's
woes.  Despite the fact that several analysts maintained positive ratings on
the company, its shares fell 6.50, or 8.7%, to 68.13.  Bear Stearns & Co. cut
EMC to attractive from buy.  The FFBN Storage Index dropped 108.01, or 7.6%,
to 1305.74.
        Among chipmakers, shares of C-Cube Microsystems Inc. gave up 5.63, or
32%, to 11.75, after Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown cut its rating on the company
to buy from strong buy.  An analyst at the firm wrote in her note that C-Cube
"has not proven immune to the softness in demand evident" in the
semiconductor industry.  Intel Corp.'s shares lost 2.69, or 7.7%, to 32.44.
        The Dow Jones Industrial Average slid 240.03 points, or 2.3%, to
finish at 10434.96.  The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 74.32, or 2.7%, to close
at 2654.19, while the Standard & Poor's 500 Stock Index fell 28.78, or 2.2%,
to 1312.15.
COMPANY NEWS:
                                        Net      Pct      EPS      EPS
                             Close    Change   Change     00E      01E
3DFX INTERACTIVE (TDFX)      1.78      -0.16    -8.1%   $(1.94)     NA
After the market closed Friday, 3DFX Interactive Inc. posted a third quarter
net loss of $178.6 million, or $4.53 a share, compared with a loss of $17.6
million, or 73 cents a share, in the same period a year ago.  Net income
includes goodwill amortization expenses of $117.1 million and in-process
research and development costs.  Excluding items, third quarter loss was
$55.9 million.  Revenue decreased to $39.2 million from $105.9 million a year
ago.
                                        Net      Pct      EPS      EPS
                             Close    Change   Change     00E      01E
APPLE COMPUTER (AAPL)        14.06     -0.38    -2.6%    $0.37    $0.95
Apple Computer Inc. said it expects its capital expenditures to increase to
$225 million during its fiscal year 2001 ending Sept. 30, Federal Filings
reported.  According to the company's annual report filed late Thursday with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, the increase in expenditures will be
used to accommodate information systems enhancements and strategic
initiatives.  Apple didn't specify the amount of its capital expenditures for
fiscal 2000.
                                        Net     Pct       EPS      EPS
                             Close    Change   Change     00E      01E
CMGI INC. (CMGI)              8.28     -0.78    -8.6%   $(6.78)     NA
ORACLE CORP. (ORCL)          28.56     +1.06    +3.9%    $0.49    $0.60
SUN MICROSYSTEMS (SUNW)      30.44     -1.25    -3.9%    $0.70    $0.88
Robertson Stephens cut its rating on CMGI Inc. to long-term attractive from
buy.
Punk Ziegel & Co. cut Oracle Corp. to market perform from buy.
Bear Stearns & Co. cut Sun Microsystems Inc. to attractive from buy.



08:01


Document ff00000020010806dwci02avu




The Trader
 MARKET WEEK -- Stocks 
 Earnings Warnings Whack the Market Again 

 By Andrew Bary 
2,767 words
18 December 2000
Barron's
B
MW3
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Help us, Alan! That cry welled up from Wall Street last week after technology stocks got bashed and the overall market was hurt by a fresh series of profit warnings from companies as diverse as Microsoft, Compaq Computer, Chase Manhattan, Whirlpool, Maytag, General Motors, Honeywell, Illinois Tool Works, United Parcel Service, FedEx and Clorox. 

 With earnings' underpinning for the stock market starting to crumble, many investors are now hoping that Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and his fellow central bankers will quickly ride to the rescue and reduce short-term interest rates. 

 Imminent relief probably isn't forthcoming, however. Most Fed-watchers believe the central bank will refrain from easing credit conditions at this week's meeting of the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee. But the markets clearly are betting that come the new year, the Fed will get into full easing mode. Financial futures markets now discount a quarter-point rate reduction at the FOMC's meeting in late January and another quarter-point cut at the March meeting. Once the Fed does ease, stocks may rally sharply despite a weak earnings environment as investors "look across the valley" to a period of stronger economic activity and higher profits. 

 Hurt by the Microsoft and Compaq warnings and fears that stalwarts like Sun Microsystems will succumb to reduced corporate technology spending, the Nasdaq fell 264 points, or 9.1%, to 2,653 in the five sessions. The index, which declined 75 points Friday, ended the week just 56 points above its November 30 low of 2597 and down 35% for the year. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average fared better, falling 278 points, or 2.6%, to 10,434 as losses in Microsoft, IBM, Home Depot and General Electric were partly offset by gains in McDonald's, General Motors, and AT&T. The index's big drop came Friday, when it fell 240 points. So far this year, the Dow is off 9%. 

 The S&P 500 declined 4.2% to 1312 in the week and now is down 10.7% this year. 

 Byron Wien, chief domestic strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, says the market action last week showed once again how the consensus is often wrong. "Everyone thought that stocks would do well if the election got settled. Yet it was settled with Bush winning and stocks went down." 

 Richard Bernstein, chief quantitative strategist at Merrill Lynch, says stocks are being supported by a "Greenspan put." This is the perception that the Fed will protect investors from serious losses in stocks by cutting rates. That belief was buttressed by the Fed chairman's recent comments about the depressing economic effect of reduced equity financing and troubles in the junk-bond market. 

 "People believe that there's limited downside and unlimited upside to the market," Bernstein says. Given this view, it should come as no surprise that Street strategists have never been more bullish based on their recommended asset allocations. 

 Goldman Sachs strategist Abby Cohen and UBS Warburg strategist Ed Kerschner both pounded the table last week. Cohen said the S&P 500 is roughly "15% undervalued" while Kerschner went as far as calling the current situation "one of the five most attractive opportunities of the past 20 years." The last such opportunity, he says, came after the 1998 financial crisis. He sees the S&P 500 topping 1700 by the end of 2001, a 30% rise from current levels. 

 Kerschner's super-bullish target may be a stretch because a weakening economy is taking a toll on corporate profits. To get to 1700 on the S&P, price/earnings ratios will have to expand -- something that doesn't usually happen when profit growth is decelerating. 

 Fourth-quarter profits for the S&P 500 are now expected to be up just 7%, half the increase anticipated on October 1, according to First Call. Given recent profit warnings, that 7% reading could be high. Retailers, for instance, are reportedly having a tough Christmas. Analysts still see 10% profit growth for the S&P next year, but that projection probably will come down in the coming months. It's possible that 2001 profits may be up only 5% next year or even be flat. 

 If flat earnings seems outlandish, consider that General Motors, a big contributor to S&P profits, could see a 50% drop in profits next year, while Ford's earnings may decline 25%. 

 Intel's profits could fall sharply in 2001 because it relied heavily on investment gains this year to boost its net, and its kitty of capital gains is virtually exhausted, according to an analysis by Fred Hickey, editor of the High-Tech Strategist, a newsletter in Nashua, New Hampshire. Intel is seen earning $1.65 a share this year, but some analysts expect it to produce profits of just $1.40 a share in 2001. That $1.40 estimate could prove optimistic because it reflects still-sizable investment gains. It's possible Intel's profits could fall below $1.30 in 2001. Intel shares fell 1.50 to 32.50 last week, well below their September high of 75. Intel may look inexpensive based on this year's profits, but investors have to remember that 2000 profits have been bloated by unsustainably high investment gains that Intel has insisted on including in its operating results. Don't be surprised to see the company try next year to get Wall Street to focus on its operating profits. 

 The entire tech sector has benefited from Intel-style investment gains in 2000, but those gains could turn into losses in 2001. Just last week, Compaq said it will recognize a loss on its investment in Internet incubator CMGI. 

 And in one sector that's seen strong profits gains this year, energy, earnings are likely to fall in 2001. 

 -- The brokerage industry should reap less bountiful profits next year. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, for instance, is estimated to have earned over $5 billion in its fiscal year just ended, an amount that will prove very tough to top in 2001. The consensus is for Morgan to beat its expected fiscal 2000 profits of $5 a share in 2001, but it's conceivable that the bellwether brokerage firm may earn $3.50 a share or less, which would still represent a healthy 20%-plus return on equity. 

 The investment community, despite warnings from brokerage executives like Goldman Sachs chief executive Henry Paulson, has persisted in viewing the securities industry as capable of consistently generating 30% returns on equity, an unsustainably high level of profitability given the industry's huge equity base and vulnerability to market declines. 

 The factors cited by Chase Manhattan last week in its profit warning -- lower trading revenues, investment losses and high compensation expenses -- also are affecting the brokers. 

 This week, Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs are expected to report lower profits for their fiscal fourth quarters, ending in November. The actual results could be even worse than the current consensus, which calls for Morgan to earn $1.29 a share, down from $1.42 a year ago, and for Goldman to post net of $1.38 a share, down from $1.54 a year ago. 

 Morgan Stanley was off 5.25 last week to 68.88; Goldman Sachs also dropped 5.25, to 86.69, and Merrill Lynch fell 6 to 63.68. Some Morgan Stanley insiders now are saying privately that the stock's record high of 110, reached in September, might not be challenged for quite a while. 

 There's continued buzz on the Street that the $10 billion purchase of Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette by Credit Suisse First Boston is not going well. Given the exodus of talent from DLJ and the mess in the junk-bond market, some think that DLJ, which has earned an estimated $500 million after taxes this year, will be lucky to contribute $150 million to Credit Suisse next year. 

 Citigroup, which had been relatively unscathed by the fallout lately in the banking and securities industries, finally got hit last week, falling 3.50 to 48. Citigroup's fans figure that Sandy Weill, the company's chief executive, will find a way to deliver in tough times. But it's worth noting that Citigroup is involved in banking, securities, credit cards and consumer lending -- all difficult areas now. Citigroup's Salomon Smith Barney division has been a big source of profit growth this year, but it is feeling the same pressures as Morgan Stanley and Goldman. It'll be interesting to see if Citigroup can hit the current fourth-quarter profit estimate of 67 cents, which is up 20% from last year's 56 cents. If Citigroup can deliver when rivals falter, it will only burnish Weill's reputation as one of the greatest Wall Street executives ever. 

 -- Microsoft's profit warning dominated the market Friday with shares of the software giant falling 6.31 to 49.19 after hitting a new 52-week low of 47.75. Microsoft now is down 57% this year, which has clipped an amazing $375 billion from its market value. Microsoft's decline alone accounts for about 30% of the S&P 500's drop this year. 

 Given the implosion in the personal-computer market, Microsoft's news wasn't a big surprise, especially since the new profit guidance isn't dramatically lower than before. But investors were in no mood to be charitable. Microsoft said it sees current-quarter profits of 46-47 cents a share, compared with the consensus of 48 cents, and it guided down estimates for its fiscal year ending in June to about $1.81 a share from $1.87. If it hits the new guidance, Microsoft's profits will be up just 6% in the current fiscal year. 

 There has been plenty of focus lately on the impact on Intel's profits from investment gains, but Microsoft also has benefited from gains taken on its $20 billion portfolio of equity and other investments. During its last fiscal year, Microsoft realized an estimated $1.6 billion in gains, worth around 20 cents a share. 

 Analysts now expect Microsoft to reap as much as $2 billion in gains in the current fiscal year, worth 24 cents a share. That estimate could prove optimistic given the rout in technology stocks. Even if Microsoft can realize $2 billion in gains, there's a strong case to be made that they should be excluded from its operating profits. After all, equity gains are unsustainable and largely discretionary. 

 Strip out the projected gains and Microsoft trades for around 30 times projected fiscal 2001 profits, above its stated P/E of 27 based on $1.81 estimates. 

 William Epifanio, an analyst at J.P. Morgan, remains bullish on Microsoft because of its monopolistic market position and relatively modest P/E. He also points to the company's balance sheet, which probably is the best in Corporate America. Microsoft has cash of $25 billion in addition to its $20 billion in investments. The cash and investments are worth nearly $9 a share. The company, moreover, has been generating about $3 billion of free cash each quarter, Epifanio says. Microsoft also could get some help in its antitrust fight from President-elect Bush. 

 -- PepsiCo's partisans have a lot to cheer about this year with the stock up 38% to 48.82 in a rocky market. Archrival Coca-Cola, on the other hand, has seen its shares fall 8% to 53.50, way below its 1998 peak of 90. Coke was off nearly eight points last week. 

 Pepsi, the subject of a favorable Barron's cover story last spring ("Chipping Away," June 12), soon may hit another milestone -- a higher price/earnings multiple than Coke's. Pepsi fetches around 30 times projected 2001 profits of $1.65 a share, while Coke commands 31 times estimated 2001 earnings of $1.70 a share. Given the narrowing P/E gap, some investors are tempted to switch to Coke from Pepsi, but Bill Pecoriello, the beverage analyst at Sanford Bernstein, says Pepsi remains the better bet. 

 "There's still execution risk with Coke in 2001," Pecoriello says, noting that he recently cut his 2001 profit estimate for the beverage giant to $1.70 a share from $1.74. Coke is expected to earn about $1.45 a share this year. 

 The bullish argument for Coke has been that the company, whose profits this year are expected to be little changed from those in 1996, will finally break out in 2001 and generate mid-teens profit growth. 

 But Coke is struggling in the U.S. Its global bottling network remains under pressure, and it continues to be outmaneuvered by Pepsi in non-carbonated beverages, the source of virtually all the industry's growth. Pecoriello notes that Pepsi now has the No. 1 water brand, Aquafina, the No.1 iced tea, Lipton, and it will have the top sports drink, Gatorade, when it completes its purchase of Quaker Oats. Coke is aiming to be more responsive to local tastes around the world, but it risks cannibalizing its major soda brands. 

 Coke is due to report its global volume trends Wednesday for the fourth quarter, and the numbers may not be impressive. Pecoriello recently cut his volume forecast to 3.8% from 4.5%, noting that U.S. volume may be up just 1% despite aggressive Grinch-related promotions. Another potential headache for Coke may come next year if its U.S. bottlers roll out a lowpriced bottled water that will compete against Coke's Dasani brand. 

 For a company with stagnant profits in recent years and a challenging outlook, Coke still commands a relatively high multiple. 

 -- It's ironic in a year in which major indexes have declined that asset-management companies have been among the stock market's strongest performers with an average gain of over 50%. 

 One of the biggest winners has been Neuberger Berman, whose shares have more than tripled to 77.50. The entire group has been helped by merger activity and continued takeover speculation. Neuberger, which went public only last year, has been mentioned prominently as a potential seller. 

 Yet some think Neuberger's stock is overpriced, and that it will be tough for the company to find a buyer willing to pay much more than 75. 

 Neuberger has one of the highest valuations in the group, trading for 27 times projected 2000 profits of $2.86 a share and 24 times estimated 2000 profits of $3.20 a share. The typical asset manager trades for around 20 times estimated 2000 profits. T. Rowe Price, at 40, fetches just 19 times estimated 2000 earnings, while Franklin Resources, at 34.50, commands less than 15 times estimated 2000 profits. With a market value of nearly $4 billion, Neuberger commands a hefty 7% of assets and 10 times book value. 

 The company's market value isn't much less than that of T. Rowe Price, which has more than triple Neuberger's assets and a much broader franchise. If the mania for asset managers cools and Neuberger doesn't sell out, its stock could easily fall to 50 next year. 


---
                      VITAL SIGNS
                      FRIDAY'S   WEEK'S    WEEK'S
                       CLOSE     CHANGE    % CHG.
DJ Industrials       10434.96    -277.95    -2.59
DJ Transportation     2698.68    -181.27    -6.29
DJ Utilities           386.52     +  .70    + .18
DJ 65 Stocks          3152.68    - 87.81    -2.71
DJ US Tot. Mkt         305.27    - 14.26    -4.46
NYSE Comp.             635.86    - 19.48    -2.97
Amex Comp.             865.21    -  8.28    - .95
S&P 500               1312.15    - 57.74    -4.21
S&P MidCap             494.43    - 33.50    -6.35
S&P SmallCap           206.96    -  4.79    -2.26
Nasdaq                2653.27    -264.16    -9.05
Value Line (arith.)   1076.69    - 38.52    -3.45
Russell 2000           458.03    - 21.04    -4.39
Wilshire 5000        12093.96    -572.50    -4.52
                                 Last Week     Week Ago
NYSE Advances                     1,584         2,283
Declines                          1,706           994
Unchanged                           187           213
New Highs                           447           487
New Lows                            199           283
Av Daily Vol (mil)                1,439.0       1,482.1
Dollar
(Finex spot index)                  112.90        114.05
T-Bond
(CBT nearby futures)                104-23        103-10
Crude Oil
(NYM light sweet crude)              28.87         28.44
Inflation KR-CRB
(Futures Price Index)               227.41        230.60
Gold
(CMX nearby futures)                270.40        272.20


Document b000000020010803dwci000jh




 Solutia Issues 4th-Quarter  Profit Warning , Plans to  Cut  Work Force 

453 words
18 December 2000
14:12
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 ST. LOUIS -- Solutia Inc., citing surging natural-gas costs and a slowdown in orders amid "uncertain economic conditions" in the U.S. and Europe, warned that fourth-quarter earnings would fall short of Wall Street's already reduced expectations. 

 The chemical-products company also announced a cost-cutting plan, under which it expects to cut 700 to 800 full-time workers, about 400 contractors and expects to take a fourth-quarter restructuring charge of between $90 million and $100 million for the position reductions and the write-down of certain nonperforming and nonstrategic assets. 

 The position reductions will be accomplished in 2001, the company said, noting it intends to achieve the reductions through a combination of attrition and involuntary separation. 

 Solutia (SOI), meanwhile, said it expects to report fourth-quarter earnings of 12 cents a share. The mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial was for earnings of 17 cents a share. In the year-earlier quarter, Solutia earned $51 million, or 46 cents a share. 

 In October, Solutia said fourth-quarter earnings would fall short of analysts' estimates at that time. Before the warning, analysts were looking for earnings of 24 cents a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 In September, Solutia warned that full-year results would miss analysts' estimates, citing higher material and energy costs, and the lower value of the euro against the U.S. dollar. 

 Meanwhile, the maker of fibers, polymers and resins said its cost-reduction initiatives are expected to achieve $100 million in annual pretax savings, with about 50% of the savings to be realized in 2001. 

 "We are moving forward with a smaller group of senior executives, reporting to me, who will have broader and deeper responsibility, and who have the necessary experience to successfully guide the company to the next phase of profitable growth," John Hunter, Solutia's chairman and chief executive officer, said in a prepared statement. "We are confident that our streamlined organization will lead to greater profitability, enhanced cash flow generation and greater shareholder value." 

 Solutia, which operates plants in Belgium, Canada, Singapore, the United Kingdom and the U.S., said economic conditions don't appear to be improving for the first quarter. 

 "In 2001, we expect to realize significant operational and cost benefits from this management realignment and the infrastructure investments we have made during the past several years," Mr. Hunter said. "We strongly believe that our fully implemented enterprise-wide systems, combined with our leading-edge work processes, will result in more cost-effective work flows and improved responsiveness to our customers' needs." 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020020330dwci01m59




 WSJ.COM: Industrials Surge Amid Fed Hopes; Nasdaq Slumps 

 By David Runk 
941 words
18 December 2000
20:23
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 WSJ.com 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Blue chips rallied Monday amid speculation that the Federal Reserve may do more than expected to support the economy at its policy meeting Tuesday. But earnings worries pulled down the technology sector. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 206 points, or 2%, to 10641 in late-afternoon trading after falling 240.03 points the previous session. The Nasdaq Composite Index returned early gains to trade down 25.60, or 1%, at 2627.70 after dropping 75.24 points Friday. 

 Other major indexes were higher. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 11.10 to 1323.30, the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index gained 7.50 to 643.30, and the Russell 2000 Index of small-capitalization stocks gained 4 to 462.10. 

 Stocks surged early Monday amid support from a Wall Street Journal report that the U.S. economy has slowed so rapidly that Fed officials are contemplating a more aggressive response when they meet than financial markets anticipate. But earnings worries continued to pester the market following more cautionary comments from companies, erasing the Nasdaq composite's early 2.7% gain. 

 Market observers widely expect the Fed to adopt a neutral stance on interest rates following remarks earlier this month from Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan about the economy. But policy makers could issue an explicit statement that the risks of recession now exceed those of inflation, or they may even cut interest rates, Fed insiders say, although there is no firm consensus yet. 

 'That certainly helped the opening, but you're getting every day 10 or 12 companies saying business stinks,' said Larry Wachtel, market strategist at Prudential Securities. 'With the economy showing signs of slowing, technology stocks continue to get hit. ... The safe and sane parts of the market are doing OK, but there is no rush to get back into technology.' 

 Blue chips were led higher in part by a rally in the rate-sensitive financial sector. Among stocks in the industrial average, J.P. Morgan jumped $4.81 to $164.81, while Citigroup and American Express also rose. Old Economy issues such as Boeing, Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing and Honeywell all showed solid gains. 

 Internet stocks pressured the Nasdaq composite, which struggled to regain positive territory during the afternoon. The Dow Jones Composite Internet Index sank 4.1%, but semiconductor shares held gains. Shares of eToys dropped 73% after warning that fourth-quarter revenue will miss expectations, casting doubt on how well other consumer electronic-commerce companies are holding up. 

 Bonds were mixed, returning early gains that came amid hopes that the central bank may shift its inclination toward cutting interest rates, instead of previous expectations of simply moving to a neutral stance. Lower interest rates tend to boost the value of fixed-income investments such as Treasurys. 

 Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at First Albany, said Tuesday's Fed policy meeting is the first in some time where the outcome seems so uncertain. 'I think there is some suspicion -- sort of like whisper estimates for company earnings,' he said. 'If there is a bias, I think there is a bias that the Fed might surprise us.' 

 Monday's mixed market follows a rough week for Wall Street, which saw investors punish stocks amid worries about how much earnings growth will suffer in the slowing economy, and fears about the possibility of an economic hard landing. The Nasdaq composite lost 9% last week, while the industrial average gave back 2.6%, and most other major indexes retreated. 

 Investors continued to hear more warnings about fourth-quarter results Monday and news of planned job cuts. Shares of DaimlerChrysler in the U.S. sank 94 cents to $42.55 after warning full-year operating profit likely will drop by as much as 8% this year because of heightened competition. 

 Shares of Time Warner dropped $9.46, or 14%, to $63.26 after it warned of disappointing fourth-quarter results, citing weak music and movie sales and soft advertising revenue. Its merger partner America Online fell $6.76, or 14%, to $42.20 despite saying it is on track to meet quarterly estimates. 

 Meanwhile, Aetna rose $3.88 to $36.88 after the nation's largest health insurer said it will cut 5,000 jobs, or 13% of its work force, and implement other measures designed to improve profitability. And Gillette gained 81 cents to $34.63 after the consumer-products company announced that it plans to cut about 2,700 jobs, or 8% of its work force, in part to boost earnings growth. 

 Outside the U.S., shares in Europe finished mostly higher as investors awaited Tuesday's Fed meeting. In the Asian-Pacific region, markets finished mixed, with shares falling in Tokyo but rising in Hong Kong. 

 In major U.S. market action: Stocks were mixed. On the Big Board, where 906 million shares traded, 1,790 stocks advanced and 1,142 declined. On the Nasdaq market, 1.63 billion shares changed hands. 

 Bonds were mixed. The 10-year Treasury note was up nearly 1/4 point, or $2.50 for each $1,000 invested, bringing the yield down to 5.16%. The 30-year bond fell more than 1/4 to yield 5.44%. 

 The dollar was mixed. It traded at 89.36 cents to the euro and 112.03 yen, compared with 89.50 cents to the euro and 112.58 yen late Friday in New York. 

 (For continuously updated news from The Wall Street Journal, see WSJ.com at http://wsj.com.) 

5042

Document dj00000020010805dwci04r43




 INTERVIEW-Koor says foreign firms interested in ECI units. 

 By Tova Cohen 
627 words
17 December 2000
14:59
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 TEL AVIV, Dec 17 (Reuters) - Koor Industries chief executive Jonathan Kolber said on Sunday various foreign companies were looking to invest in or acquire parts of the company's subsidiary ECI Telecom Ltd . 

 "People are interested in different pieces of ECI," Kolber told Reuters. 

 Kolber, who is also ECI chairman, said some companies have offered to merge units with one or two of the five ECI divisions while others have discussed buying one or two entities outright. 

 "We have been saying ever since we announced the demerger of ECI into five companies that there has been a lot of interest from different players," he said, "We have been holding talks that involve all different levels." 

 Kolber denied a report in Sunday's Maariv newspaper that Koor was in talks to sell up to 60 percent in Israel's ECI Telecom to a foreign technology company. 

 "It's much ado about nothing," Kolber said. 

 Maariv reported Israeli holding company Koor was in talks for the sale of 50 to 60 percent of ECI with an unidentified international technology company interested in ECI's broadband, optical network and wireless telecommunications operations. 

 ECI would be valued at $30 a share in such a deal, the newspaper said. The Nasdaq share closed down $1-5/16 at $17-3/8 on Friday in the wake of a fourth-quarter profit warning. The share has fallen 50 percent since ECI announced in August plans to split into five companies. 

 Maariv also said holding company Koor is in talks with Canada's Nortel Netowrks for an investment in ECI. 

 "There is nothing about Nortel, nothing about $30 a share," Kolber said. 

 ECI EXPECTS Q4 REVENUES, EARNINGS SHORTFALL 

 ECI on Thursday said it expected fourth quarter revenues of $310-$330 million, below forecast due to a greater than expected decline in legacy DCME (digital circuit multiplication equipment) products and less than expected growth of optical network products. 

 Earnings will be hurt by the revenues shortfall as well as a larger than expected loss in broadband access solutions products, with ECI expecting an operating loss of $15-$25 million before restructuring and one-time charges. 

 ECI is demerging into five companies and expects to begin separate reporting in the first quarter of 2001. 

 "While we are preparing to take these companies public, we are also in active discussions with strategic financial and technology investors, who are attracted by our demerger programme and have the potential of creating value for our shareholders," ECI said in a statement on Thursday. 

 Kolber said ECI still plans to take public the first new company - most likely its transport unit - in the first quarter but was taking into consideration the possibility that Nasdaq will remain weak. 

 "If the market is good we will go ahead in the first quarter. If industry or technology players want to invest in a mezzanine (pre-initial public offering) stage, we will happily think about that," Kolber said. 

 Kolber said Koor was "not all that concerned" with ECI's profit warning. 

 "We are in very good company," he said, noting several U.S. giants such as Microsoft have recently issued warnings. 

 "It's a very tough quarter for the Western economy in general," Kolber said. 

 He said lower DCME sales were not very relevant to future value creation as it is a legacy business that is dying out. He said the trend for its broadband access unit was "positive". 

 "The value of the five businesses is so much higher than the present value, which we will prove in time," Kolber said. 

 Analysts have valued the five separate companies at over $7 billion, compared with ECI's current market capitalisation of $1.6 billion. 

Document lba0000020010821dwch09w54




 UPDATE 1-Chrysler to post $1.25 bln Q4 loss - paper. 

451 words
17 December 2000
18:17
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 FRANKFURT, Germany, Dec 17 (Reuters) - Chrysler, the struggling U.S. unit of German automaker DaimlerChrysler AG , is set to double its losses in the fourth quarter of this year, a German newspaper reported on Sunday. 

 The authoritative Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, in an article released in advance of Monday's edition and sourced to Frankfurt financial circles, said Chrysler would post a loss of $1.25 billion in the fourth quarter. Chrysler lost $512 million in the third quarter. 

 The paper also said DaimlerChrysler chief Juergen Schrempp would send a letter to shareholders on Monday warning that the operating profit of the entire DaimlerChrysler group would be halved in its 2000 financial year. The letter would ask for their continued confidence. 

 A spokesman for DaimlerChrysler, contacted by Reuters on Sunday, declined to comment on the figures in the report. But he did confirm that the company planned to send a letter to shareholders on Monday, although he would give no details. 

 The Frankfurter Allgemeine said the fourth-quarter loss by Chrysler would leave the company with a small full-year operating profit of 500 million euros ($448 million) compared to 5.2 billion euros last year. 

 Schrempp was also expected to explain in the letter that DaimlerChrysler's operating profit in its 2000 financial year, adjusted for one-off effects, would fall to 5.0 billion-5.5 billion euros from 10.3 billion euros in 1999 and that 2001 would present an even tougher challenge, the newspaper added. 

 CHRYSLER UNDER PRESSURE 

 If the newspaper report proves to be accurate, the news would deal an additional blow to Chrysler, which on Friday announced that it will idle three U.S. plants and part of a fourth in early January in an effort to cut bloated inventories. 

 The shutdowns will idle some 13,200 workers, a Chrysler spokesman said. 

 Chrysler's performance has also brought Schrempp under increasing fire from shareholders over his admission that the 1998 "merger of equals" between then-Daimler Benz and Chrysler Corp. was effectively a takeover of the U.S. carmaker. 

 American billionaire Kirk Kerkorian is suing DaimlerChrysler for $9 billion for allegedly misleading shareholders. 

 Chrysler's losses have slashed the value of DaimlerChrysler's shares and led many to question the logic of the merger, which Schrempp once billed as a "marriage made in heaven." 

 DaimlerChrysler's stock closed up 49 cents at $43.49 a share in trading on the New York Stock Exchange on Friday, above its 52-week low of $37.90 and off its high of $78.6875, as well as its all-time high of $108 a share in January 1999. 

Document lba0000020010821dwch09pmq




 Counting the cost of boom and bust 21st century style. 

 By Teresa Hunter. 
1,249 words
17 December 2000
Sunday Herald
SUNDHE
9
English
(c) SMG Sunday Newspapers Ltd Not Available for Re-dissemination.

 The technology sector has eaten up many a fortune in the past few depressed months. But will the gloom continue into the new year? Teresa Hunter takes a look 

 MICROSOFT'S profit warning last week rounded off 2000 as the year which saw the technology sector go from boom to bust. Small savers poured #2 billion into the tech funds in the run up to the end of the last tax year, even though such specialised and volatile holdings were not suitable for many. 

 This is a lesson they have now learned the hard way, as they nurse losses of nearly half of their original value in some cases. 

 Certainly buyers of the funds are drying up at an alarming rate. New money into technology slumped to a record low of #94 million in October, and November's figures are expected to be even weaker. 

 Fund managers have admitted that there are very few buyers around. Despite turbulence since April, new investments had held up surprisingly well. However, the latest grim news seems to be deterring all but the most bravehearted. 

 That said, investors are not bailing out in droves, but steeling their nerves in the hope of recovery in the not too distant future. Although market watchers are confident that the main technology indices of Nasdaq and the Techmark will bounce back some time in the second half of next year, the big unknown is just how high that bounce will be. 

 If you bought into some of these funds at the top of the market, they will need to be Olympic gold medalists for you to see your money back in the short term - Aberdeen Euro Technology is down 43% since June, Framlinton Netnet down 46%, and several are down around 30%, not least Aberdeen Technology, Newton Global Innovation, Premier Technology, and S&W Global Technology, according to Standard & Poors. 

 Jupiter's Global Technology, which was launched amid much hype pretty much at the peak of the market, is also down 30%. 

 Even over a year, when funds benefited from the huge surge in prices which preceded the crash, many funds are still nursing horrible losses. Framlington's Netnet is down 42%, Aberdeen Euro down 26% and Aberdeen Technology is down 15%. Although to be fair, some of these hits over such a short period will include the upfront costs of buying into the fund. 

 Investors gritting their teeth and hoping for some early pain relief will have been dismayed by a recent series of profit warnings and earnings downgrades which swept through some of the world's largest tech companies, such as Intel, Microsoft and Motorola. 

 Government warnings of the potential health problems associated with mobile phones can have done little to cheer that sector. And the sale of Freeserve to the French internet service provider Wannadoo, amid much comment that it was a business without a viable strategy, did little to bolster confidence, particularly as its share price continued to slide. 

 Closer to home, there is uncertainty at the top management of Scottish Equitable's Technology fund, one of the earliest, which has earned a reputation for sound management. 

 Paul Kleiser, who launched the fund back in 1985, is off to Henderson's where its own tech team have departed to set up a boutique. He is taking Stuart O'Gorman with him. The Scot Eq fund is second in the sector over three years, turning #1000 into #3287 over that period. Scot Eq is hoping to recruit a new manager, but meanwhile head of US Equities, Elaine Heaton-Armstrong, will look after the fund. 

 Nevertheless, investors generally can be forgiven for feeling nervous, particularly if their technology buy was a first plunge into equity markets or unit trust investment, as it was for many who rushed to meet the April deadline for getting cash into the tax haven of an Individual Savings Accounts. 

 The big question for these unitholders is: should I sell or should I hold on? But such investors might have done better to ask themselves some tough questions at the outset, rather than simply pick a fund with the best short-term growth record as many of them did. 

 Whatever happens to the future of the technology markets, they will remain volatile. These are specialist funds investing in sun rise industries, where there will always be spectacular success stories and hopeless failures. 

 They are not suitable for risk averse investors on any grounds. But for most normal investors, a holding of perhaps 5% of their overall investments is sensible. 

 However, putting all your savings in such a fund is foolhardy, unless you are young, wealthy and enjoy the adrenaline rush which comes with the thrill of sharp share price movements, both up and down. Against this background, however, fund managers are reasonably hopeful that the technology story is here to stay, and the sector will provide opportunities for profits in the future. 

 Markets have fallen so low that now is not the time to bail out. However, if you are a cautious investor, it could make sense to wait for a rally, but sell out then and switch into something more secure. 

 SO what do the experts say? Scottish Equitable's US fund manager Andrew Dove rejects the view that what has happened is a crisis of confidence in the new industries. He sees a rational underlying trend, which can be explained and then used to predict the future with some degree of certainty. 

 "Most internet spending comes from the budgets of big companies, which are themselves cyclical," he says. 

 "Because industry had spent so much money in 1999 getting ready for the millennium bug, at the end of 1999 money dried up and some major projects were delayed. 

 "After a pause in spending, there was a rush to spend in the first quarter of this year which pushed the market up to levels which were not sustainable. Spending again fell in the second half of the year, causing the current problems. 

 "We have had a big shakeout and the next quarter or half could continue to be very volatile." 

 What are his views for the future? "On a two-year view, there is no reason why technology spending should slow. It is enabling companies to cut costs. I am very optimistic that over a year or longer things will start to look extremely rosy." 

 Gartmore Technology Manager, Tim Dainton, says: "In my view, technology will deliver superior growth into the future. 

 "The problem with the current shakeout is that there has been no discrimination between good companies and bad companies. The big correction has hit across the board and there is now a danger of throwing the baby out with the bathwater." 

 What has given them the gitters? "The US election hasn't helped and shown that these stocks are not safe from uncertainty. Then we have had the poor trading statements and profit warnings. While some operations have great franchises and are making money, others have applied overly inflated valuations, leading to expectations which were so high they could not be met. 

 "I would expect the market to continue trading sideways during the first quarter of next year and then see it start to move forward again in the second or third quarter of 2001." 

 However, Dainton admits that there are risks. 

 "All bets are off if the USA goes into a hard landing." 

Document sundhe0020010817dwch008sv


BUSINESS
HARD TIMES MAY GET WORSE FOR AREA AUTO PLANTS 

DAVID ROBINSON 
1,156 words
17 December 2000
Buffalo News
BFNW
English
© 2000 Buffalo News.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.  All rights reserved.  

The hard times are starting to hit home in the auto parts business -- and Western New York is feeling its fair share of the pain. 

Already, Delphi Automotive Systems is planning to lay off up to 240 workers at its Lockport plant, and American Axle and Manufacturing is warning that a layoff could be coming soon to its East Delavan Avenue plant. Visteon Corp. also is reviewing its operations to determine how it will deal with the slowdown in new car and truck production that is shaking the auto industry. 

"We're starting to feel it," said Kevin Donovan, the Buffalo area director for the United Auto Workers. "It's not just Delphi. We're experiencing it in all the plants in Western New York -- American Axle and Visteon -- and then it trickles down to all the smaller parts manufacturers." 

Auto parts are big business in the Buffalo area, accounting for somewhere around 25 percent to 30 percent of the region's manufacturing jobs if you include the General Motors Corp. engine plant in the Town of Tonawanda and Ford Motor Co.'s stamping plant in Hamburg, local economists estimate. 

But the auto business also is notoriously cyclical. It's one of the first to feel the pinch when the economy slows, which is exactly what's happening now, with November auto sales experiencing their sharpest monthly decline in two years and production expected to keep sliding next year. With the region's factory base tied so closely to the auto industry, it makes the Buffalo economy particularly prone to those cyclical highs and lows. 

And it could get worse before it gets better. 

Alan Dawes, Delphi's chief financial officer, warned during a conference call last week that more layoffs are expected, beyond the 1,700 that the former GM parts unit announced earlier this month. Those layoffs are expected to be temporary, but company officials also aren't predicting when those workers might be called back. 

What's more, Delphi also said it could sell some of its less profitable businesses that have $4 billion to $5 billion in annual sales in a bid to focus on faster-growing, higher-tech products that also carry higher margins. 

That could put a spotlight on the company's Delphi Harrison Thermal Systems business in Lockport. It's part of Delphi's safety, thermal and electrical architecture group, which the company said is likely to be the main focus of its efforts to sell or form new ventures for some of its less profitable operations. 

"Delphi is ready to make some tough decisions to get out of businesses that don't make sense," said J.T. Battenberg III, the company's chairman, president and chief executive officer. 

While Delphi singled out only its $600 million generator business for a potential sale, Dawes said other moves, including sales or the formation of partnerships and joint ventures, could be coming soon. 

"In safety thermal, there will be some transactions," he said. "We do think some things could move quickly there." 

For now, Delphi officials aren't saying what parts of the safety and thermal products group they're targeting, only that they want to be the No. 1 or No. 2 player in all of their businesses. Delphi also could make acquisitions that would bolster the market share of those smaller businesses to try to give them the critical mass needed to meet the company's profitability goals. 

"In 2001, we're going to accelerate our shift toward more high- end electronics products . . . and less low-end auto products," Battenberg said. 

Just how that would affect Delphi Harrison is unclear. Analysts speculate that Delphi may sell units that make heating, ventilation and air-conditioning systems, air bags and ignition products. 

On the positive side for the Lockport plant, Delphi expects during the fourth quarter to use investment tax credits worth $15 million to $20 million that were granted by the state for plant improvements made while the facility still was part of General Motors, Dawes said. The state also invested $19 million in job-training funds in the plant last year. 

At the same time, though, Delphi executives for months have been warning Lockport workers that the local plant isn't meeting the company's profit targets, which had set a goal of a 4 percent net profit margin this year and 5 percent in the future. 

"They've got specific ideas on where they want to go and what they want to do," Donovan said. "What we're trying to do up in Lockport is to put together a plan to be competitive." 

With the slowdown in the auto industry, which is expected to trim new car and truck production from about 17.5 million units this year to around 16.1 million in 2001, Delphi now says it will have a net margin of 3.7 percent to 3.8 percent this year and forecasts a net margin of 3 percent to 3.3 percent in 2001. "Obviously, we are very, very disappointed," Battenberg said. 

By getting out of some of its less profitable businesses, Delphi could boost its net profit margin by a full percentage point, Dawes said. 

For now, Battenberg said Delphi has a lot of advanced technology businesses that have are highly profitable and offer significant growth possibilities. 

"We also have a large number of cash cows" in more stable businesses, he said. "Some of these provide opportunities to finance growth in our advanced technology areas . . . Some of these, it's time to harvest." 

Since 1992, Delphi has sold or closed 74 plants or businesses that had about $7 billion in annual sales. Battenberg said he expects most of Delphi's focus during its current "portfolio management" to center more on fixing ailing businesses or selling them. 

"I think it's a wise move," says Marc Santucci, the president of ELM International, an auto parts industry consulting firm in East Lansing, Mich. "How many product areas can you keep up with, in terms of pouring money back in?" 

At Visteon, the problems go beyond a mere drop in new car and truck production to include the company's high cost structure and its need to streamline operations, said Wendy Beale Needham, an analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston. 

"These are problems that an uptick in volume alone cannot solve," she said. 

Indeed, Visteon is in the midst of a companywide review that includes a cut in capital spending, a hiring freeze, the elimination of most production overtime and "substantial reductions" in discretionary spending. 

Needham also thinks Visteon, which employs 150 people at its Visteon Climate Control Systems unit in Cheektowaga, will reassess which product lines should be considered part of its core business going forward. 

After all, those are the things you do when it's time to batten down the hatches.  

Document bfnw000020010803dwch00vl6


 Business 
 How Might Bush's Proposals Impact Your Portfolio? 

 Terry Keenan 
3,985 words
16 December 2000
20:00
CNN: Moneyweek
MNWK
English
 (c) Copyright eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.). All Rights Reserved. 

 George W. Bush officially won the White House this week, five weeks after the election.  Bush promised to unite the country and win the respect of all Americans.  Perhaps one challenge facing the new president will be the slowing economy, as well as a turbulent stock market.  Stocks remained turbulent this past week, as a flood of new profit warnings swept the Street, from Compaq Computer to J.P. Morgan. 

 TERRY KEENAN, HOST:  Just ahead on the MONEYLINE weekend edition, it is finally over.  George W. Bush will be the next president of the United States.  We'll find out how his proposals might impact your portfolio. 

 And the PC slump claims another victim:  Microsoft delivers its first profit warning in more than 10 years. 

 And buying Proctor & Gamble?  We'll tell you why one of our Wall Street experts is hot on this stock. 

 ANNOUNCER:  This is the MONEYLINE weekend edition with Terry Keenan. 

 KEENAN:  Hello, everyone. 

 We begin with the victory of George W. Bush, the Texas governor winning the White House five weeks after the election.  Bush promised to unite the country and win the respect of all Americans. 

 Perhaps one challenge facing the new president will be the slowing economy, as well as a turbulent stock market.  Stocks remained turbulent this past week, as a flood of new profit warnings swept the Street, from Compaq Computer to J.P. Morgan. 

 Microsoft also warned that quarterly revenues and earnings would come in below analysts' expectations.  The company blamed slowing demand for PCs.  Hear you see the sell-off in Microsoft.  Compaq also blamed weak PC demand for its expected shortfall.  J.P. Morgan blamed the weak financial markets. 

 And General Motors announced a major restructuring and said its fourth-quarter earnings would fall far short of forecasts. 

 Time now to bring in our team of market experts.  With us this week, Bob Reitzes, the hedge fund manager with New Castle Partners; Todd Eberhard, he is president of Eberhard Investment Associates; and David Jones.  you know him, chief economist at Aubrey G. Lanston. 

 And, gentlemen welcome. 

 Bob, let's start with the markets, because Wall Street wanted to see a Bush victory, but it was classic "buy the rumor, sell the news" this week.      BOB REITZES, NEW CASTLE PARTNERS:  Right, so I mean, I think in your introduction about Microsoft, all these preannouncements, you have on the one hand, you know, a Republican administration, tax cutting, lower rates, followed on the other hand by horrible earnings and how bad does it get.  So I think now the negativity is outweighing all the other positives. 

 I think next week, and David can comment on it more, but I think next week what the Fed has to say will be very important for the market.  We may have a rally if that gets some good news on that. 

 KEENAN:  Yes, David, if the Fed has the election out of its way what happens next week? 

 DAVID JONES, AUBREY G. LANSTON:  Well, I think Chairman Greenspan wants an orderly process here, so I see them moving to a neutral directive, recognizing the downside risks in the economy.  But I don't think the Fed's going to move quickly in the direction of a rate cut. My guess is it could be March of next year perhaps before we get the first one.  But once it starts, we could get as many as three after that. 

 KEENAN:  And we might be in a recession by then. 

 JONES:  Well, the Fed could well be behind the curve this time, because I think they feel we're in a soft landing.  The Street is looking more at a hard landing.  I think the Fed is talking more about a soft landing possibility. 

 KEENAN:  And, Todd, one of the reasons the Street's looking at that is these earnings misses.  They're not misses by a penny or two, they're misses by a mile. 

 TODD EBERHARD, EBERHARD INVESTMENT ASSOCIATION:  Well, they are. Companies across the board -- and everybody has their excuse -- but the numbers are not being missed by one or two cents. 

 But I hope you're wrong that it's March, I'll tell you that, only because I think Wall Street does expect something, not in December but the meeting after, that maybe a quarter point, so it shows the Fed is trying to stay up with the curve and not be behind it. 

 KEENAN:  Bob, how are you positionings yourself in this market environment? 

 REITZES:  Well, in the stock pickers 101, which I was reading last night, I think you want to own companies where they take advantage of interest rates coming down, like Freddie Mac and Fanny Mae.  You want to own drug companies, the ones where you have bulletproof earnings.  You want to own consumer nondurables, P&G maybe, Kimberly.  And you want to own stocks of that ilk, and then you might get a little bit more gutsy on  King Pharmaceuticals, ICN, these types of stocks that are a little bit off the fringe which have some interesting earnings upside. 

 KEENAN:  And, you know, for the fifth, sixth, seventh time, I don't know which one it was, but people were saying we put in a bottom on the Nasdaq at 2500.  It doesn't look like maybe we did now. 

 REITZES:  Well, I'll tell you, there's a lot of Nasdaq stocks out there -- some of them which we own.  I mean, I'd be more, as I've been on this show, I'd be more than happy to go over every stock on my portfolio if it would help on Monday.  But there's a lot of Nasdaq stocks that may have bottomed and that you never you when to buy them, like Intel, for example. 

 The whole world knows the PC industry is lousy.  We know the first quarter's going to be lousy and possibly the second quarter. However, we start getting easier comparisons in the second half of next year.  It is a capital item.  Maybe we have some new applications.  And more importantly, one of the things -- there's going to be two things that are going to change next year. Microsoft's going to have a new OS, operating system, Whistler, that could change things. 

 And the second thing is that you have now the ramifications of Y2K, where you had this major buying that's over and you might see corporations starting to upgrade their PC base. 

 KEENAN:  OK, we are going to take a quick break. 

 Another thing we will have in the new year is a new administration in Washington.  We'll take a look at Bush and the economy and find out what the new year may hold for investors. Political analyst Greg Valliere joins us up next. 

 A bit later, we will take a look at the top stock picks of our team of experts. 

 Don't go away. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 GEORGE W. BUSH, PRESIDENT-ELECT OF THE UNITED STATES:  I was not elected to serve one party but to serve one nation.  The president of the United States is the president of every single American, of every race and every background.  Whether you voted for me or not, I will do my best to serve your interests, and I will work to earn your respect. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 KEENAN:  President-elect Bush giving his victory speech in Austin, Texas, this past Wednesday.  That speech, of course, followed a concession by Vice President Al, Gore who lost the state of Florida despite numerous court battles. 

 So what lies ahead for the next president?  Joining us with some insight is Greg Valliere.  He's the political analyst at Charles Schwab Washington Research Group.  And Greg joins us from Washington. 

 Greg, welcome back. 

 GREG VALLIERE, CHARLES SCHWAB WASHINGTON RESEARCH GROUP:  Great to see you. 

 KEENAN:  And congratulations, because you said this is basically how it was going to shake out. 

 What's the buzz down there?  Is the new president going to get an inauguration gift from the Federal Reserve in terms of lower interest rates? 

 VALLIERE:  I think so, eventually.  I think the mood right now, Terry, is one of tremendous relief in this city.  I mean, this could have been worse.  It could have dragged into early January.  You and I could have been talking about President Denny Hastert on January 20th. There were all sorts of horrible scenarios, and it ended as well as you could hope for.  And I think for the next few weeks there will be a bipartisan mood. 

 Beyond that, though, I think that legislatively we're not going to get a lot done.  I think if there's any stimulus coming from Washington to help this very feeble economy, it comes from monetary stimulus, not from any big new tax cut. 

 JONES:  Greg, this is David Jones. 

 On that subject, do you think there can be some kind of bipartisan compromise where Bush, though, is strong?  Let's say he accepts some version of it -- gets some version of the tax cut through, but only if he accepts Democratic spending ideas.  So, is it -- does it mean it's a complete dead end here, or is there some chance on the fiscal side?  My view is that that will have some bearing on how Greenspan behaves, particularly with regard to how soon he gets into these rate cuts. 

 VALLIERE:  Absolutely.  I think, David, you're not going to get a big, sweeping across-the-board tax cut.  That's very unlikely.  But there's some ideas that the Democrats, I think, would go along with, estate-tax reform, something on the marriage penalty, maybe some savings incentives. 

 So I think a modest tax cut can make it.  I don't see anything in the next two years that would really hurt this tremendous budget surplus story.  The numbers are just going to get bigger and bigger. 

 REITZES:  Greg, Bob Reitzes, how are you doing? 

 VALLIERE:  Hi, Bob. 

 REITZES:  Two questions:  One, make a guess.  Who do you think is going to be the secretary of Treasury, No. 1. 

 And No. 2, in addition to any fiscal reform, what do you think about Medicare and any kind of bills, Medicare, pharmaceutical industry? 

 VALLIERE:  Well I think on the first one you need somebody who has some market savvy.  There's been talk about Bill Archer, the outgoing ways and means chairman.  But I think a Wall Streeter.  In fact, I heard David Jones saying Roger Ferguson, the vice chairman of the Fed, would be a wonderful choice or Bill McDonough from the Fed. I think somebody who could get along well with Greenspan... 

 REITZES:  I think David Jones was saying David Jones, right? 

 VALLIERE:  Well, sure, sure. 

 JONES:  I whispered that on another CNN show, but I think Roger Ferguson -- I'm glad to hear that you agree with that... 

 VALLIERE:  Oh, he'd be great. 

 JONES:  ... because I think the Bush administration needs a good relationship with Greenspan, and they're not necessarily starting off on the right foot, particularly on this issue of tax cuts. 

 VALLIERE:  Absolutely, so to keep Greenspan happy is a big, big priority, as we've seen in the last eight years. 

 Very quickly on your other question, I think that Social Security reform or Medicare reform looks real tough with Congress this divided. I'd be happy to see a modest tax cut make it. 

 EBERHARD:  Greg, Todd Eberhard.  Just a quick follow-through. The first 100 days is supposed to be a honeymoon.  It doesn't seem like it'll happen, but what's the first thing he's going to try and get through Congress at this point, do you think? 

 VALLIERE:  I think, Todd, probably something on education, something that everyone can agree on.  I think he can't do anything very controversial at all.  If he went right away with some huge tax cut, I think that would be the exact worst thing that you could possibly plan. 

 KEENAN:  All right, Greg, we are out of time.  Nice to talk, though, on concrete terms and not just hypotheticals for a change. 

 Have a good weekend. 

 VALLIERE:  You, too. 

 KEENAN:  Just ahead, we will preview some of the key events for the coming week.  We're going to take a look at plunging mortgage rates as well.  Just where is this U.S. economy headed? 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 KEENAN:  A recent rally in the bond market has helped to sent mortgage rates to their lowest level in 18 months.  The average 30-year fixed-rate mortgage fell this past week to 7.42 percent. 

 As for the outlook for overall interest rates, it may become clearer next week.  That is when Fed policy makers meet.  The meeting is on Tuesday.  There is of course some speculation that the Fed will cut rates, either at this meeting or in the next couple months. 

 As for the other events to watch next week, we get housing starts for the month of November, due out on Tuesday. 

 On the earnings front, look for results from Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. 

 Palm is also slated to reported quarterly results later in the week. 

 And, David, we're getting all this anecdotal evidence from the retailers that Christmas is incredibly soft.  There's discounts galore out there.  What do you think the chances are that we would slip into a recession in the first quarter? 

 JONES:  They've doubled, Terry, from maybe 20 percent to 40 percent in my view.  So there is a danger here.  My guess is we're playing with the lower end of the soft-landing range, maybe around 2 percent here.  But that's dangerous territory.  If you drop below 2 percent, you start to get into that hard-landing territory, where the economy cannot grow fast enough to create enough jobs to hire all the people coming into the labor force. 

 KEENAN:  Todd, do you agree?  And does the labor situation kind of mask all the underlying problems in the economy?  Because, I mean, unemployment's still at 4 percent. 

 EBERHARD:  Unemployment looks great, but as David and I were speaking prior to the show, what we're seeing is it's a self-fulfilling prophecy.  The more you talk about the R word, the R word, the R word, it actually could actually happen, just based on that alone.  But I am concerned about potential bankruptcies, credit-card delinquencies and all the other numbers that we're going to be seeing probably growing in the next number of months. 

 But unemployment looks great.  So on that basis you could certainly argue no recession in sight. 

 KEENAN:  Bob, what do you think? 

 REITZES:  I think David and Todd are both right.  I think we're going to see a very difficult period.  If I were going to bet, I would say less than 2 percent growth, and I think the Fed is going to have to take some strong action. 

 I'm not in the ability to predict the rate cuts, but I think that Greenspan is going to have to be very, very -- let's say more liberal than he would have wanted to be.  I think the -- what you're seeing in terms of the cuts, in terms of earnings and sales is just -- I think it's happened so quickly it's almost breathtaking. 

 KEENAN:  David, can you do that without hurting the dollar and without setting up a whole ripple effect? 

 JONES:  No, and that's exactly the problem.  And he's caught already. Once you turn that virtuous cycle that we were in for 10 years -- strong dollar, attractive foreign money into our dollar assets, including equities, strong growth, low inflation -- once you start to weaken that, and oil prices were the first villain to start to change that, and now the credit problems coming is coming in and then the dollar, that's like the nail in the coffin.  And I think the dollar has had it.  And I think it will weaken.  I think it will tend to keep inflation higher than it should be.  It's not going to be a runaway situation, keep the Fed from easing as fast as it should. 

 So I would completely agree that the Fed, once it starts, it may be a bit late.  But the economic consensus is two quarter-point cuts. I could say three or four once they start, if this situation doesn't deteriorate in terms of rate cuts. 

 REITZES:  The one thing just, if we have a second, the dollar has been abnormally strong the last few years.  To see it weaken a little bit, at least in terms of at least for the companies that we own or that we follow, I think they would find that quite to their liking. And I think the economy could help it.  And so, therefore, I think a stronger -- a weaker dollar, obviously it's a balancing act, is not that horrible. 

 KEENAN:  OK, we're going to take a quick break. 

 But when we return, we'll get some stock picks from our MONEYLINE weekend pros. 

 Don't go away. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 KEENAN:  Time now for some stock picks that can weather the economic slowdown. 

 We'll start with Todd Eberhard.  Todd, what do you like here? 

 EBERHARD:  Boy, talk about a difficult assignment.  Some of the stocks that we're looking at -- and actually you sort of talked about it a little bit -- one is Proctor & Gamble I think is an excellent company at this point, where you do have potential with the dollar, as well as just people have to buy their products.  You know, recession is recession if it happens. 

 But other companies as well in the area, such as, like, Johnson & Johnson, Merck, those companies we think are the tried and true consistent performers and will continue to do well, especially with an aging population. 

 KEENAN:  They've already had a great year, though. 

 EBERHARD:  I think they're going to continue to have one. They've really bucked the trend of the markets, and I think that's going to continue if these markets remain either flat or down, which they seem to be at this point. 

 KEENAN:  All right, Bob. 

 REITZES:  Merck's been my best-performing stock this year, so I'm going to push American Home, which hasn't done quite as well.      But, no, I agree with Todd.  Basically consumer nondurables, and you can pick them, but I like the drugs because they have better growth rates than the Proctor & Gambles, although we own those.  I like the Fannie and Freddie because they benefit from lower rates, and I'm going to -- I might be a little Buffet-esque and buy some tech stocks that are beaten up, like I think Sandisk could be a very interesting stock to have here. And I don't know how much time I have, so I can go through the other 35 stocks. 

 KEENAN:  No, give us two more. 

 REITZES:  I'll give you two more then.  I think Vitesse could be like it's a French stock -- no, it's a U.S. stock.  I think it could be extremely interesting because it plays into this whole broadband expansion. 

 I think one other stock that looks interesting is SunTrust.  It's -- I won't say a sleepy old bank because they could be watching, but, it's -- in fact, it's in your backwoods in Atlanta.  But it's something like at 10 times earning.  And these banks benefit when the rates go down from the spread.  And that's how they make motion of their money.  And I think you have the financials and the consumer non durables always lead stocks out of the recession.  Am I right?  Do you agree with that? 

 JONES:  I do agree with that, especially with interest rates heading where they are.  Sooner or later, those are the places that will do well. 

 REITZES:  So we must be wrong.  we've got two people agreeing. 

 KEENAN:  Right, right. 

 OK, and just ahead we're going to wrap it up.  We'll get some predictions, including a prediction from David Jones on who will be our next Treasury secretary. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 KEENAN:  OK, time now for predictions. 

 Let's start with Todd Eberhard -- Todd. 

 EBERHARD:  You always come to me with the hard ones to start these things. 

 Predictions at this point, I think the Nasdaq has seen the bottom going back a week or two.  We think it's going to remain pretty flat and be a slow curve on the upside, but this year, 2001, I'm going with your prediction from last year is that we're going to see actually an up Nasdaq about 18-20 percent. 

 And on the other side, we think rate cuts are coming in a quarter point.  About six and a half weeks from now we think it's going to happen, and then two or three more for the rest of the year. 

 KEENAN:  The first one in late January? 

 EBERHARD:  I believe so. 

 KEENAN:  OK -- Bob. 

 REITZES:  I think we're going to have a lower dollar.  I think we're going to have rate cuts, and I think the Nasdaq will rally and be very strong, at least by the second half of next year -- and we'll bite our nails through the first half. 

 KEENAN:  OK -- and, David, you gave us one idea for Treasury secretary, but I know you have a few more up your sleeve. 

 JONES:  Two from Wall Street: Walter Shipley, former chairman at Chase, and they're now talking a bit about Sandy Warner, who is involved in of course that merger, the J.P. Morgan-Chase merger.  But I still would stick with my Roger Ferguson, Fed vice chairman as the smartest move that Bush could make, particularly with respect to his relationship with Greenspan. 

 KEENAN:  So you don't think it's necessary to have somebody from Wall Street? 

 JONES:  No, remember, we've had good ones from Wall Street --Rubin, and I would say Douglas Dillon (ph) going back a bit further. But we've also had some problems from Wall Street.  I'll leave them nameless. 

 KEENAN:  All right, thanks, gentlemen, as always. 

 That's going to do it for the MONEYLINE weekend edition.  Have a great weekend everyone. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 800-CNN-NEWS OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT www.fdch.com

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.)  No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.'s copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material.  This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document mnwk000020010808dwcg0000f


BUSINESS
STOCKS SLIDE ON MICROSOFT  PROFIT WARNING  -- SOME ANALYSTS FEAR ECONOMIC 'MALAISE' SPREADING TO LARGER MARKET

LISA SINGHANIA   
578 words
16 December 2000
Peoria Journal Star
PRJS
ALL
C02
English
Copyright 2000, Peoria Journal Star. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

NEW YORK - Spooked by an earnings warning from Microsoft, investors Friday dumped high-technology stocks in a selloff that quickly spread across the market.

A bearish forecast from household products company Clorox added to Wall Street's fears the economy is slowing too much and earnings might fall more than expected.

''It's not just tech companies warning any more, now you're into consumer products. It was banking earlier this month, this week UPS said business wasn't that good and now you have Clorox,'' said Larry Wachtel, market analyst at Prudential Securities. ''It's an overall economic malaise, and each time one of these announcements comes out, it undermines the market.''

The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 240.03 at 10,434.96, a 2.3 percent loss, according to preliminary calculations.

The Nasdaq composite index dropped nearly 2.8 percent, falling 75.17 to 2,653.34. The Standard & Poor's 500 index slid 28.83 to 1,312.10, a nearly 2.2 percent loss.

It was the heaviest trading day ever on the New York Stock Exchange, where an estimated 1.55 billion shares changed hands.

The expiration of option contracts and futures contracts Friday, in what is called a ''triple-witching,'' intensified the selling, but analysts said earnings concerns were responsible for most of Friday's losses.

Microsoft's warning late Thursday that a worldwide slowdown in computer sales would hurt its second-quarter results was the latest in a series of pre-announcements by major companies suggesting the slowing economy is hurting their bottom line.

Investors have been selling stocks, particularly technology issues, on fears about an economic slowdown and falling corporate profits since Labor Day. But recent warnings from non-technology companies are taking a toll on already anxious investors.

Microsoft fell $6.31, or 11 percent, to $49.19. Other technology stocks also slid, including Intel, off $2.69 at $32.44 and Cisco Systems, off $2.77 at $48.17.

Clorox's forecast of lower-than-anticipated quarterly results sent it down $3.94 to $30.06. Tobacco was also weak; Philip Morris was off $1.44 at $40.06.

But financial and pharmaceutical issues, usually perceived as a safe haven in uncertain economic times, appeared to recover after spending much of the session in negative territory. Banker J.P. Morgan rose $2.06 to $160. Schering-Plough was up 44 cents at $58.31.

A Labor Department report showing a higher-than-expected inflation reading also surprised Wall Street, which is counting on an interest rate cut early next year. The Federal Reserve, which sets the nation's monetary policy, previously has cited inflationary pressures as reasons to raise interst rates.

Even influential Goldman Sachs strategist Abby Joseph Cohen's statement Friday that she did not expect the U.S. economy to fall into a recession failed to assuage the market.

Declining issues led advancers by more than 7-5 on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume was 1.55 billion shares, compared with 1.04 billion on Thursday.

The Russell 2000 index dropped 3.78 to 458.04.

Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average fell 2.5 percent. Germany's DAX index slipped 2.1 percent, Britain's FT-SE 100 slid 1.3 percent, and France's CAC-40 was off 1.1 percent.

Document PRJS000020100604dwcg006n8




 TECH WEEK IN REVIEW: Microsoft Gives Techs More Bad News 

 By Kim Stewart and Kristin Hussey 
2,321 words
16 December 2000
01:20
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 WSJ.com 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) took the unusual step this week of issuing a profit warning, jolting already weary investors who have seen once-highflying tech stocks do an about-face over the last six months. 

 Last December, Microsoft's stock soared on rumors that the software giant was close to settling its long-running antitrust case with the Justice Department and 19 states. The stock hit a 52-week high of $119.94 on Dec. 30, 1999. Friday, the shares sank as low as $47.75, beneath the previous 52-week low of $48.44 set Oct. 17. 

 Sure, Microsoft wasn't alone in warning that its December quarter earnings will take a hit because consumer spending on computers and software has slowed world-wide. Compaq Computer Corp. (CPQ), Gateway Inc. (GTW), Intel Corp. (INTC) and Apple Computer Inc. (AAPL) have all issued earnings warnings within the past two weeks, blaming sluggish PC sales to consumers. Given the current tech environment, with dot-coms falling like dominoes and other tech concerns scrambling for cover, the news shouldn't have been that surprising to those of us resigned to the doom and gloom. 

 But this is Microsoft, the company whose Windows operating system and Office software sits on most of the world's desktops, the company that hasn't issued a profit warning in more than 10 years and rarely misses earnings expectations. This is a company that holds a monopoly on operating system software, for goodness sake. If things are bad at Microsoft, how much worse off are the rest of us? The company's software sales to businesses were viewed as an important buffer amid reduced consumer spending. But Microsoft indicated that corporate spending on computers and software is slowing, too. This is partly because dot-coms are dropping like flies, drying up new sources of business, shrinking Internet advertising and depressing the value of once-fat investment portfolios held by Microsoft, Intel and a host of other heavyweights. 

 Microsoft said revenue for its fiscal second quarter ending Dec. 31 would fall 5% to 6% below expectations, coming in at $6.4 billion to $6.5 billion. The company said it expects to post a profit of 46 cents to 47 cents a share, compared with the mean estimate of 49 cents a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. Analysts had expected Microsoft to say its earnings would take a hit, given the parade of other tech bellwethers struggling with similar issues. But the magnitude of its shortfall was a surprise. 

 "We believe Microsoft's preannouncement sends a broader, more negative signal to investors about the environment and [we] expect a more difficult period upcoming for tech stocks," Goldman Sachs analyst Rick Sherlund said in a Friday research note. 

 The news out of Redmond, Wash., was depressing, but head south to Redwood Shores, Calif., and the picture looks brighter. 

 Archrival Oracle Corp. (ORCL), the No. 2 software company, reported better-than-expected earnings for its fiscal second quarter ended Nov. 30. Oracle showed solid increases in net income and sales, and even raised it sales and earnings targets for the current quarter. Unlike Microsoft, Oracle said it hasn't seen demand for its database and e-commerce software slacken. Investors applauded the news, pushing Oracle's shares up $1.38, or 5%, to $28.88 on an otherwise ugly trading day on the Nasdaq Stock Market. 


            Hardware and Software



Intel and International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) separately plan
new technologies for making chips that are up to 10 times faster than
current versions. Also, IBM plans to invest $1 billion next year in the
open-source Linux operating system and an additional $4 billion over
three years in the information-technology outsourcing sector.



Lernout & Hauspie Speech Products NV said it plans to appeal last
week's decision by a Belgian court to deny it "concordat" status, the
Belgian equivalent of Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.



3Com Corp. (COMS) and Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) extended their alliance to
develop ultra-fast corporate computer networks, and Broadcom announced
plans to take a stake in 3Com.



Securities regulators reached a settlement with MicroStrategy Inc.
(MSTR) in connection with a probe of improper accounting and reporting
practices at the software firm.



Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR) agreed to acquire closely held Micro
Magic Inc., a maker of chip-design tools, for $260 million in cash and
stock.



Acer Inc. announced details of assembly-plant closures in the U.S. and
Germany and the possible sale of more than $590 million of noncore
assets.



Microsoft agreed to a $97 million settlement of federal lawsuits
brought by temporary workers challenging the software giant's employment
practices.



Computer Learning Centers Inc. (CLCX) said the U.S. government
determined that the company's practice of paying admissions officers
based on the number of students they enroll is illegal.



IBasis Inc. (IBAS) agreed to acquire closely held speech-technology
firm PriceInteractive for about $118 million in cash and stock.



SAP AG (SAP) has named a new CFO, a move that will free Chief
Executive Henning Kagermann to concentrate on his other
responsibilities.



United Microelectronics Corp. (UMC) will build a $2 billion wafer
plant in Singapore with a foreign partner, in a move that may frustrate
Taiwan.



              Internet and Online



The FTC approved the $110 billion merger of America Online Inc. (AOL)
and Time Warner Inc. (TWX), creating a media giant but subjecting it to
tough rules, including an agreement to open cable lines to Internet
rivals and accept continued monitoring. Also, AOL is holding talks with
Toyota Motor Corp. (TM) and Sony Corp. (SNE) that could help the
Internet firm expand into online services tailored to cars and
video-game consoles.



RealNetworks Inc. (RNWK) announced substantial improvements in
Internet audio and video, just as new pressures are shaking some
start-ups from the market. Also, Microsoft will release several audio
and video improvements as it continues to pressure rival RealNetworks in
the broadband and wireless markets.



Online sales are cooling off, rising only 50% in the week ending Dec.
3, down sharply from the prior week's rise. Most analysts have expected
online retail sales to increase by at least 60% this year.



Charles Schwab Corp. (SCH) has imposed a hiring freeze and is looking
for ways to trim expenses as it grapples with a slowdown in customer
trading.



Macromedia Inc.'s (MACR) Shockwave.com agreed to acquire AtomFilms, a
deal that will result in about 100 job cuts once the
online-entertainment companies are combined.



Covisint has finalized a deal that gives General Motors Corp. (GM) and
Ford Motor Co. (F) a share of technology supplier Commerce One Inc.
(CMRC) valued at $1.26 billion. The agreement makes Commerce One a key
partner in the exchange.



EBay Inc. (EBAY) is acquiring part of Deja.com Inc., a struggling
comparison shopping and consumer review site, for undisclosed terms.



CenterSpan Communications Corp. (CSCC) is buying the assets of Scour
Inc., a Web company that filed for bankruptcy-court protection after
being sued by entertainment companies.



               Layoffs and Closures



AdMart Ltd. said it will shut down its operations and lay off 334
employees. The online grocery and delivery service is backed by Hong
Kong tycoon Jimmy Lai.



Agency.com Ltd. (ACOM) shares tumbled 23% after the company unveiled
plans to cut about 190 jobs and report $11 million to $14 million in
charges.



Ask Jeeves Inc. (ASKJ) said it will cut 180 full-time jobs, or 25% of
its work force, and take a charge in the fourth quarter as part of its
plan to restructure into two independent business units.



Organic Inc. (OGNC) said it will lay off 25% of its staff and warned
that fourth-quarter revenue won't meet expectations. The company also
named a new chief executive.



Quintus Corp. (QNTSE) said it has reduced its work force by 24%, or
more than 100 jobs, to help the developer of customer-service software
trim costs.



          Telecommunications and Cable



AT&T Corp.'s (T) stock has reached an eight-year low, prompting rumors
that Ma Bell could face a takeover, from a Baby Bell or a highly valued
newcomer, such as Qwest Communications International Inc. (Q). Also,
AT&T told regulators that it will use the proposed spinoff of Liberty
Media (LMGA) to satisfy a federal requirement imposed on it as a
condition of its merger with cable company MediaOne.



Qwest Communications agreed to pay $250,000 to settle allegations that
it switched customers' long-distance service without their permission in
Wisconsin.



Vodafone Group PLC (VOD) will buy a 15% stake in Japan Telecom Co.
(J.JTC) for $2.5 billion, aiming to capitalize on the Japanese cellphone
market.



NorthPoint Communications Group Inc. (NPNT) filed suit against Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) seeking $1 billion in damages or injunctive
relief from the termination of the companies' merger deal.



A court ruled that WorldCom Inc. (WCOM) can proceed with its plan to
buy Intermedia Communications Inc. (ICIX) in order to gain control of
Intermedia's Digex Web-hosting unit, but warned that it could be liable
for damages.



Sprint Corp. (FON) said it is looking to beef up its Web-hosting
business and may consider buying a provider of such services.
Separately, a Sprint shareholder filed a lawsuit against some directors
and executives of the telecommunications firm, claiming they secretly
altered a clause in Sprint's stock-option plan.



RCN Corp. (RCNC) is postponing development of new venues for its
broadband networks, choosing to focus on existing markets and ride out
the shaky telecom capital market.



After selling his $1.1 billion sale of USA Networks Inc.'s (USAI) TV
stations to Univision Communications Inc. (UVN), Barry Diller plans to
focus the firms' efforts on acquiring cable-TV networks and Internet
businesses.



Wireless companies bid $501.2 million during the first two rounds of a
federal auction for broadcast spectrum that analysts say could be the
government's most lucrative auction to date. Also, a wireless start-up
is trying to stop the Federal Communications Commission from auctioning
its licenses to two rival firms that are largely owned by Cingular
Wireless LLC and AT&T Wireless Group (AWE).



             Initial Public Offerings



Federal authorities are focusing on the VA Linux Systems Inc. (LNUX)
public offering in their probe of questionable ways in which Wall Street
firms allocate hot IPOs.



Gemplus International SA's (GEMP) shares rose in debut sessions on
both the Nasdaq Stock Market and the Paris stock exchange, despite
hiccups in the handling of the smart-card maker's twice-delayed IPO.



Agere Systems Inc. filed for an IPO of up to $100 million of stock,
according to a filing by the communications-semiconductor unit of Lucent
Technologies Inc. (LU).



                  Earnings



Chip maker Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) warned that
fourth-quarter sales and earnings will be lower than expected because of
slow sales of PCs.



Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) named Bruce Chizen chief executive,
succeeding co-founder and longtime CEO John Warnock, who will remain
co-chairman. The software maker also posted quarterly earnings that beat
estimates.



Anadigics Inc. (ANAD) said it expects to post a loss for the period
and lowered its earnings forecasts for the first quarter and full year
2001, largely blaming the continuing reduction in orders by cell-phone
customer Ericsson.



Antec Corp. (ANTC) expects to report a fourth-quarter loss, rather
than the profit Wall Street was expecting, due to delays in product
shipments to AT&T.



CMGI Inc. (CMGI) reported a steep loss for its first quarter and said
it would continue to consolidate units to stem losses.



Compaq Computer warned that fourth-quarter results will fall well
short of expectations, becoming the latest tech firm to be hurt by
weaker computer demand.



Covad Communications Group Inc. (COVD) said it would miss analysts'
fourth-quarter targets, largely because the Internet service's resellers
are having trouble paying their bills.



DoubleClick Inc. (DCLK) warned that its fourth-quarter results will
fall short of analysts' estimates and lowered expectations for the first
quarter of 2001 amid the continued slowdown in online advertising.



Engage Inc. (ENGA) reported earnings below analyst expectations for
its fiscal first quarter and gave a gloomy outlook for the rest of the
fiscal year, amid a widespread lag in online advertising.



Intraware Inc. (ITRA) said it expects third-quarter revenue of $23
million to $25 million, below previous expectations for the e-commerce
software and services company.



Eastman Kodak Co. (EK) slashed its fourth-quarter forecasts over 35%
and warned that it expects a weak first half of 2001. The firm cited a
sharp slump in film sales.



Microchip Technology Inc. (MCHP) projected lower-than-expected sales
in the current quarter and disclosed sharp cuts and delays in its
expansion plans.



Net2Phone Inc. (NTOP) posted a quarterly loss that was narrower than
expected as revenue more than doubled. The company also said it plans to
stop offering free PC-to-phone calls.



Oracle slightly exceeded forecasts for the fiscal second quarter,
dodging the downturn affecting other tech firms.



Pitney Bowes Inc. (PBI), facing earnings pressure, said it would spin
off its office-systems business to shareholders. It also lowered its
estimate of per-share operating earnings for this year.



Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) will take a one-time charge of $80 million for
its most-recent fiscal quarter after an arbitrator ruled that it must
share royalties for cell-phone sales with a South Korean research
institute.



Quantum Corp.'s Hard Disk Drive Group (HDD) plans to post
lower-than-expected revenue and a loss in its fiscal third quarter
because of a component shortage.



Razorfish Inc. (RAZF) warned that it will post a fourth-quarter loss,
rather than the profit that analysts expected for the Web consulting
company.


Document dj00000020010805dwcg04py7


 Business 
 Nightly Business Report 

 Paul Kangas, Jeff Yastine 
4,588 words
15 December 2000
23:30
Nightly Business Report
NBR
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 PAUL KANGAS, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT ANCHOR: An 800-pound gorilla named Microsoft (MSFT) weighed on Wall Street today: the Dow falls 240 points and the NASDAQ Index loses 75 points. Good evening. I`m Paul Kangas. 

 JEFF YASTINE, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT ANCHOR: And I`m Jeff Yastine. Susie Gharib is off tonight. Here`s a question Fed watchers are pondering: Just how will President-Elect George W. Bush and Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan get along? We have a report. Then, electric deregulation has sparked major problems in California. Now residents say the state should "pull the plug" on deregulation. 

 YASTINE: Good evening, everyone. Stocks ended the week on Wall Street with a thud. Behind today`s steep sell-off was Microsoft`s profitwarning late yesterday. It spooked investors already nervous about fourth-quarter earnings, and had far-reaching effects on the major averages. The Dow plunged 240 points and the NASDAQ lost 75. But as Suzanne Pratt reports, investors may see relief sooner, rather than later. 

 SUZANNE PRATT, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: Here we are two days after finally getting a president, and investors are still waiting for that Bush rally. So what gives? Why is the market still in a funk? Some experts say window dressing is partly responsible. 

 RICHARD McCABE, CHIEF MARKET ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: There probably is a lot of window-dressing selling going on in technology stocks that have not performed too well all year long. In other words, a lot of money managers, fund managers who`ve had these stocks on their books, don`t want to show them. 

 PRATT: But others say investors are mostly fretting about the economy and slipping corporate profits. Microsoft`s warning late yesterday fanned fears that a weaker economy could be harder for companies to weather than originally thought. Add to that a growing sense on Wall Street that the Fed has fallen behind the curve, and that the slowdown will accelerate into something worse. Experts say what that means is that the market could remain in limbo until the Fed hopefully starts lowering rates early next year. But others think if the Fed adopts a neutral bias at its meeting next Tuesday, sentiment could pick up sooner. As a result, some say investors might want to start shopping. 

 ART HOGAN, CHIEF MARKET ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: If I could stand up on a table and scream it right now, I would say this is a great time to get back in the marketplace. You know, I don`t necessarily think you need to hurry and buy something this afternoon or tomorrow morning, but I think you should start looking at some stocks, big-cap tech and telecom stocks, that have clearly been oversold. 

 PRATT: The stock market often gains ground in the last week of the year in what`s known as, the Santa Claus rally. Experts say Santa could definitely make an appearance this year, given the fact that stocks are oversold and there`s a lot of cash on the sidelines. Suzanne Pratt, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, New York. 

 KANGAS: If yesterday`s post-market revelation that Microsoft`s revenues and earnings would fall short of expectations wasn`t damaging enough to investor morale, downgrades on Sun Microsystems (SUNW) and EMC (EMC) stocks by the Bear Stearns Brokerage this morning really rattled Wall Street` bulls. In a straight-line decline then, the Dow Industrial Average, badly undermined by a six-point tumble in Microsoft`s stock, fell nearly 144 points by 10:30 this morning, while the NASDAQ Index lost 102 points. Reflecting the potential seriousness of the slowdown in the U.S. economy, more earnings warnings and brokerage downgrades continued to impact stocks, like Hewlett-Packard (HWP), Black & Decker (BDK) and Clorox (CLX) as the morning wore on. 

 Midway through the noon hour, the Dow fell to a 193-point deficit; the NASDAQ Index down 115 points. The tech-laden NASDAQ market trimmed its losses in afternoon trading, thanks to some cautious bargain hunting, but the blue chip sector continued to fall on selling linked to the quarterly expiration of stock indexes, futures and options - the "triple-witching," as it`s called. So the Dow Jones Industrial Average staggered down to a closing loss of 240.03 points, or 2.3 percent and now stands at 10,434.96. The Dow did rise three times this week, fell twice, and had an overall decline of 277.95 points, or 2.6 percent. The NASDAQ Composite today stumbled 75 1/4 points closing at 2653.27. For the week, it rose once and fell four times, and had a net overall loss of 264.16 points, that`s 9.1 percent on the downside. 

 Big board volume was a record today, 1.558 billion shares, the highest ever in one day. And down volume swamped up volume, no contest there. 

 The Transport Index down 39 1/2. 

 Utility Index managed to edge up .97. 

 Closing Tick slightly bullish at +313. 

 Standard & Poor`s 500 down 28 3/4 points. 

 The 100 losing nearly 21 1/4. 

 MidCap 400 down 5.14. 

 And the Bridge Futures Price Index managed to gain 1.39. 

 New York Stock Exchange Composite down nearly 9 3/4. 

 Almost a 4 1/2-point drop in the Value Line 

 Russell2000 Small Cap Index off a little over 3 3/4 points. 

 And the Broadly-Based Wilshire 5000 down 234.86 points, or 1.9 percent. 

 The bond market got a bit of a boost early today from the report that November consumer prices rose only 0.2 percent, which was just as expected. Buyers were also encouraged by all the earnings warnings, because they seemed to confirm the economy was slowing down to a point where the Federal Reserve might cut interest rates. Add to that a lot of flight-to-safety buying, triggered by the steep sell-off in stocks. 

 And corporate bonds, along with tax-free issues rose about 1/8-point on average. 

 And most Treasuries did a little bit better than that. 

 The 5-year notes didn`t, up 5/32. 

 But the 10-year notes up 9/32, with the yield down to 5.19 percent. 

 And the 30-year bond up 8/32. 

 And finally, the Lehman Brothers Long-Term Treasury Bond Index was up 3 2/3 points. 

 I`ll be back shortly to show you where the action was on Wall Street today. Jeff. 

 YASTINE: Well, Paul, the President Elect`s transition team will be in high gear this weekend. George W. Bush is expected to announce his first cabinet nominations. But in addition to his cabinet, the next president will also have to work closely with a key economic player, Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan. Darren Gersh reports. 

 DARREN GERSH, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: The President Elect made quite clear today he`s concerned the economy may be slowing down. 

 GEORGE W. BUSH, PRESIDENT-ELECT OF THE UNITED STATES: I think there`s concerns about some of the manufacturing base. I`ve heard concerns expressed about the automobile sector. I think all of us ought to be concerned about high energy prices. 

 GERSH: Bush said he felt strongly tax rates needed to be cut to keep the economy moving. But the man who has done the most to slow the economy down is another powerful Republican, Alan Greenspan, which is why so many in Washington are wondering how the new President and the Fed Chairman will get along. Journalist Bob Woodward has written a new book on Greenspan. He says there is no question what kind of relationship the Fed Chairman would like. 

 BOB WOODWARD, "MAESTRO: GREENSPAN`S FED & THE AMERICAN BOOM": He is very inclined to be deferential to presidents. He is a political animal. He is not going to go out and castigate the new president. He is going to want the Clinton model. 

 GERSH: The Clinton model was to keep hands off the Fed no public criticism, whatever the feelings may be in private, very different from how the president elect`s father treated Greenspan. Bush, Sr.`s administration publicly and privately pressured the Chairman to lower interest rates faster. The Chairman resisted, a fact Bush believes led to his crushing reelection defeat. But Woodward argues this Bush administration will be different, especially given Alan Greenspan`s long friendship with Dick Cheney. 

 WOODWARD: Oh, I am quite sure that Cheney would urge a President Bush to forge an incredibly close working relationship with Greenspan. 

 GERSH: A senior aide says the President Elect looks forward to a close, cordial and cooperative relationship with the Fed Chairman and former Fed Vice Chair Alice Rivlin says there no reason for the next administration to tangle with the Fed. 

 ALICE RIVLIN, FMR. VICE-CHAIR, FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD: I`m not sure what a new administration would want Alan Greenspan to do except keep on doing what he`s been doing, 

 GERSH: Bad economic times always strain relations between the White House and the Fed, but Greenspan has already signaled he`s prepared to act if the economy turns down sharply. And the huge budget surplus gives this President Bush something his father did not have-room to cut taxes. Darren Gersh, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, Washington. 

 YASTINE: Well, there`s trouble in toy land tonight for online retailer EToys (ETYS). Late today the company warned sales for the fiscal third quarter ending December 31st could only be half of what it expected, with operating losses double what it expected. EToys has hired Goldman Sachs to explore future options, including a merge, asset sale or restructuring. Analysts had predicted this holiday season would be make or break for the company. 

 YASTINE: Meanwhile, Abbott Labs (ABT) is buying the drug division of German chemicals giant BASF. The price tag, almost $7 billion. BASF`s Knoll Pharmaceuticals unit is expected to do over $2 billion in sales next year. Leading the way, its blockbuster thyroid treatment synthroid. And, Paul, Abbott Labs says the deal is expected to expand its drug pipeline and also boost its presence in Europe and Japan. 

 KANGAS: Abbott`s stock today fell $1.31, closing at $46.81 and BASF American Depositary Shares were actually up $0.13 to $41.19, a little mixture there. In any case, not much mixture on Wall Street today, a lot of minus signs and, of course, some late December tax loss selling also accounted for a lot of the weakness. Down 240 on the down and the broader market really not that bad as the advance/decline ratio indicates, 16 to 13 negative. And actually 30 more new yearly highs than lows. 

 General Electric (GE) topped the active list on a hefty 31.8 million shares, down $1.63. 

 Followed by EMC (EMC), off $6.50. It traded as low as $65.25 after Bear Stearns this morning downgraded it from "buy" to just "attractive." 

 Nortel Networks (NT) bucking the trend, up $0.44. Yesterday, the company said that it expects to meet earnings projections. 

 Citigroup down $2.69, weak banking group. 

 And Compaq (CPQ), in that high tech sell-off, down $1.35. 

 Pfizer (PFE) a $0.13 loss. 

 Lucent Technologies (LU) down $0.88. 

 America Online (AOL) dropped $1.04. 

 And then AT & T (T) down exactly $1, 10th in volume. 

 Tyco International (TYC) was up $0.56 a share. 

 Clorox Company (CLX) down $3.94. The slowing economy caused the company to warn its second quarter and full fiscal year earnings will be below last year`s. The second quarter will be about $0.03 below last year`s level. 

 Home Depot (HD) dropped $1.94 after Merrill Lynch trimmed earnings estimates there. 

 IBM (IBM) was the biggest point loser in the Dow, off $4.63 and nearing its lowest level in the last 52 weeks. 

 J.P. Morgan (JPM) was the big point gainer in the Dow, up $2.06. 

 PG&E (PCG), the west coast utility, was up $1.19 after Alex Brown Brokerage upgraded it from "market perform" to "buy." 

 And UnionBanCal (UB) down $2.38. The company says it sees lower than expected frequent earnings at only about $0.01 due to a $250 million credit loss provision. 

 Mynd Corporation (YND) the big gainer of the day, up $4.94. Computer Sciences Corp. (CSC) has agreed to acquire this company for $16 a share and today Computer Sciences said it`ll bring forward the expiration date for its tender offer from December 29th to December 20th, earlier. 

 Azurix (AZX) up $1.94. The company plans to be acquired by Enron (ENE) for $8.3750 a share in cash. That`s up from an earlier bid of $7 by Enron, so they sweetened the deal. 

 Cooper Companies (COO), this is a specialty health care firm, up $4.19. The company posted fourth quarter earnings, $0.63, $0.01 better than the Street estimate and well up from $0.53 a year ago. The company also announced its boosting its annual dividend from $0.08 to $0.10 a share. 

 Amphenol (APH) the big percentage loser, down $8.63. Of course, the company makes products like coaxial cable used by many high tech firms who, because of the slowing economy, are cutting back on capital spending. However, Amphenol says demand for its products remains strong. 

 Material Sciences (MSC) down $1.63. The company in with a third quarter loss of $0.03 versus $0.30 in earnings last year. Sales dropped 4.2 percent. 

 And Fomento Mexicano (FMX), a beer producer down there south of the border, down $4.38. The company sees lower, a lower than expected rise of nine to 11 percent in its year 2000 income. Alex Brown downgraded the stock. 

 NASDAQ trading, a loss of 75 1/4 today but for the week off about 264 points or 9.1 percent. Volume heavy at 2.6 billion shares, only 13 stocks up for every 24 down. 

 Microsoft (MSFT) topped the active list, losing $6.31 and that hurt the Dow by 38 points alone. 

 Cisco Systems (CSCO) down $2.77. 

 Oracle (ORCL), after posting better than expected earnings after the close yesterday, up $1.06. 

 Sun Micro (SUNW) down $1.25. 

 JDS Uniphase (JDSU) dropped $3.33. 

 Intel (INTC) down $2.69. 

 Juniper Networks (JNPR) fell $7.38. 

 And an $8.50 loss in QUALCOMM (QCOM). 

 BEA Systems (BEAS) topped the active list. I saw no news, but up $7.63. 

 And Veritas Software (VRTS) gained $1.13, a couple of plus signs there. 

 Eldorado Bancshares (ELBI) up $4.13. The company is going to be acquired by Zions Bancorp (ZIONS) for stock worth about $13.11 a share. 

 Resources Connection (RECN), a new issue today. It`s in the accounting and finance services business. 6.5 million shares offered at $12, opened at $13.63, high of the day $16.50. 

 And Artesyn Technologies (ATSN), formerly known as Computer Products, down $9.14. The company warned its fourth quarter earnings would come in around $0.20 to $0.25 a share versus a Street estimate of $0.39. 

 The American Exchange Index down 5.19. For the week it lost 8 1/4 points. 

 Holly Corporation (HOC), an oil refiner, up $2. Big jump in earnings. First quarter, $2.70 versus only $0.39 last year. 

 BayCorp Holdings (MWH) dropped $1. The company says the outage at its Seabrook nuclear plant will be extended due to ongoing repairs. 

 And finally, the Index Shares, not surprisingly, all on the down side. 

 And that is the Wall Street Wrap Up. Jeff? 

 YASTINE: Well, Paul, federal energy regulators OK`d new rules to prevent power shortages in California as that state deals with sharp spikes in electricity prices. California was once considered a model for utility deregulation, but as Pat Anson reports from Los Angeles, there`s now talk of re-regulating the industry. 

 PAT ANSON, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: Faced with skyrocketing energy prices and an almost daily threat of blackouts, Californians are dimming their Christmas lights to conserve electricity. Many are saying the plugs should also be pulled on the state`s three-year experiment with deregulation. 

 DOUG CHRISTOPHER, SENIOR ANALYST, CROWELL, WEEDON & COMPANY: It`s very clear that from what we`ve seen is that it is a disaster and the reason that it`s a disaster is because it`s not really true deregulation. 

 ANSON: In exchange for the free market system they lobbied hard to get, California utilities sold many of their power plants and agreed to keep rates frozen until the year 2002. That rate cap is now threatening the financial health of the state`s two biggest two companies. Southern California Edison (EIX) and Pacific Gas & Electric (PCG) can pass onto consumers only a small fraction of what they pay for electricity on the wholesale market. Faced with billions of dollars in losses, there is even talk of bankruptcy, although consumer activists see that as nothing more than a ploy to get that rate cap lifted. 

 HARVEY ROSENFIELD, FOUNDATION FOR TAXPAYER & CONSUMER RIGHTS: It`s not the rate payer`s responsibility to bail out companies that make stupid mistakes. 

 ANSON: Harvey Rosenfield says bankruptcy would teach the utilities a much needed lesson. 

 ROSENFIELD: And what`s happened here in California to the rate payers of this state, this whole rate deregulation debacle is a crime and people need to be punished for engaging in it. And these utilities, especially Edison, were paramount in perpetrating the crime and a little punishment would serve as a good message around the nation. 

 ANSON: Deregulation was supposed to keep energy costs down through competitive bidding and a free market system, but critics say the system is being manipulated by power producers, driving the cost of electricity higher and higher. Because of all the problems, Edison has started lobbying in Sacramento for a return to regulation. Analysts say the threat of bankruptcy carries a lot of weight. 

 CHRISTOPHER: To even consider having these electric utilities go bankrupt would be political suicide. I think this is an industry that is truly one of the industries that is better off regulated and that should be run as a monopoly. 

 ANSON: Recreating that monopoly would be very expensive. Utilities would have to buy back the power plants they sold a few years ago. 

 GEORGE SLADOJE, PRES., CALIFORNIA POWER EXCHANGE: We can`t go back. It`s totally impractical. The investor owned utilities sold these plants and they sold them at handsome profits. And to purchase them, I`ve heard estimates would cost anywhere from $10 billion to $20 billion to purchase these plants back. 

 ANSON: But the alternative could be even more costly. Analysts say if energy prices don`t come down soon, they could trigger a recession in California. Pat Anson, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, Los Angeles. 

 KANGAS: Alan Greenspan and the Federal Reserve meet next week. Monday, we`ll look at where interest rates may or may not be headed. 

 YASTINE: First Kodak (EK) now competitor Polaroid (PRD). Polaroid today lowering its fourth quarter earnings estimates, blaming a slowing world economy. The imaging company says it will break even or possibly post a loss during the quarter. Wall Street was looking for $0.52 a share. Kodak sounded a similar alarm on Tuesday. Shares of Polaroid falling $0.69 to $6.50. 

 KANGAS: Black & Decker (BDK) also warned today that dropping sales would hurt its fourth quarter earnings. The tool and appliance maker says fourth quarter earnings should come in between $0.95 and $1.05 per share. That`s roughly $0.40 less than Street expectation. Sales for the quarter are expected to be six percent lower than last year. Nevertheless, Black & Decker`s stock today was up $0.13, closing at $32.56. 

 YASTINE: Coming up next week, our Friday market monitor guest is Thomas J. Herzfeld, President of Thomas Herzfeld Advisors. And in the BridgeNews Watch, Tuesday, all eyes are on Washington as the Fed meets for the last time this year. Most economists expect the Fed to shift its bias to neutral. Wednesday, it`s November housing starts. Friday, we`ll see November`s durable goods numbers. 

 KANGAS: My guest market monitor this week is Carl Marker, Portfolio Manager of the IMS Capital Value Fund based in Portland, Oregon, and tonight he comes to us from Chicago. And welcome back, Carl. 

 KANGAS: Your conservative investment philosophy is no doubt an advantage in the beatings that some of the more speculative 

 CARL MARKER, PORTFOLIO MANAGER, IMS CAPITAL VALUE FUND: Thanks, Paul. It`s great to be back. sectors of the market are experiencing these days. Tell us how your IMS Capital Value Fund has done year to date? 

 MARKER: Well, I don`t have up to the minute figures, Paul, but earlier in the week we were still in positive territory for the year. I suspect we`re flat at the moment. 

 KANGAS: Well, that`s considered pretty successful in this market. Actually, the severity of the market sell-off seems to be telling us the U.S. economy may be headed for a recession. In your view, is one likely? 

 MARKER: No, I wouldn`t predict a recession, but if you recall my last visit I did think we were headed towards lower interest rates, which is a slowing economy. 

 KANGAS: But look at this market. We don`t hear too many people calling it a bear market. Are you calling it a bear market? 

 MARKER: Well, certainly certain sectors in stocks have experienced a bear market. But I`d call this a good old fashioned buying opportunity. 

 KANGAS: OK, so you do see the sell-off nearing an end, is that true? 

 MARKER: I think we`ll see a lot of strength in the first quarter of 2001. 

 KANGAS: What`s on your shopping list here? 

 MARKER: Well, I think this is a great opportunity for investors whose have been underweighted in tech and communications stocks to get fully invested. 

 KANGAS: So you`re conservative philosophy, you`re going into the techs despite that because you think they`re bargains at these levels, is that true? 

 MARKER: There`s opportunities now to pick up companies at 15, 20 times earnings where we didn`t see those earlier in the year. 

 KANGAS: Ones have you selected as "buy" candidates? 

 MARKER: Well, I like Motorola (MOT), which historically you`ve paid 35 to 40 times earnings and right now you`re able to pick it up for about 20 times earnings. 

 KANGAS: OK. Go ahead. 

 MARKER: I also like LSI Logic (LSI), another example of a communications oriented tech stock that makes chips for the wireless Internet, cell phones and the Sony PlayStation. Again, able to pick them up for about 20 times earnings when you were paying two or three times that in the past. 

 KANGAS: All right, how about number three? 

 MARKER: A couple of non-tech stocks, Archer-Daniels-Midland (ADM), Conseco (CNC) and Waste Management (WMI), which was a prior recommendation. 

 KANGAS: That`s right. You liked it at 17. It`s now around 25. That`s pretty good in a market like this and you`re- 

 MARKER: That`s up 50 percent from my last visit. 

 KANGAS: That`s right. You`re staying with it? 

 MARKER: We like waste. It`s still down from 60 and they`ve got a new CEO and they`re starting to building some serious momentum here. 

 KANGAS: Let`s go back to your last visit with us in June, June 23rd. At that time you liked Compaq (CPQ) at 27 and it moved over to 30, almost to 35. Are you still with it or did you sell it? I think you sold it, if I recall. 

 MARKER: We got out in the low 30s. 

 KANGAS: OK. You did well there. Would you buy it here? 

 MARKER: We`re not going to back to back into Compaq at this time. 

 KANGAS: OK, American Home Products (AHP) you liked. It`s about where it was then. 

 MARKER: We did well on American Home as well. We no longer own the stock. 

 KANGAS: And Loral (LOR) is the clinker. It was around 7. It`s now around 4, a little under. You`re out of it? 

 MARKER: We took a bit of a beating on Loral and we`re completely out of it at this point. We`ve moved on. 

 KANGAS: You liked 3Com (COMS) back in June because you were very positive on the Palm (PALM) spin-off and you did very well on that, did you not? 

 MARKER: 3Com is up over 50 percent from my last visit. 

 KANGAS: Right. 

 MARKER: However, at one point it was up over 130 percent from the time I recommended it. So, we`ve been happy with 3Com. 

 KANGAS: Oh, yeah. It`s done exceedingly well. So basically, here, Carl, you have a shopping list, you`re taking advantage of the weakness and you think it`s not going to last too much longer, I assume? 

 MARKER: I think the end is in sight and it`s time to start putting any unused funds to work. 

 KANGAS: OK. So you`ll be 100 percent invested in stocks. You`re not moving into bonds, like some people are, for safety? 

 MARKER: No, we`re equity managers, always have been. 

 KANGAS: OK. All right. Well, we`ll be keeping a close eye on some of these. Just quickly, your two or three favorites once again and to repeat them. 

 MARKER: Archer-Daniels-Midland, Waste Management, LSI (LSI), Motorola and Conseco, the life insurance company with the new CEO from General Electric (GE). 

 KANGAS: OK, very good, Carl. Thanks very much for being with us. 

 MARKER: Thanks again, Paul. 

 KANGAS: My guest Carl Marker, Portfolio Manager of the IMS Capital Value Fund. 

 YASTINE: And recapping today`s market action, the Dow lost 240 points, the NASDAQ losing 75. And please be sure to join us at our World Wide Web site, NBR.com. That`s NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT for Friday, December 15th. I`m Jeff Yastine. Good night, everyone. Good night to you, Paul. 

 KANGAS: Good night Jeff. I`m Paul Kangas wishing all of you the best of good buys. 

 Nightly Business Report transcripts are available on-line post broadcast. The program is transcribed by FDCH. Updates may be posted at a later date. The views of our guests and commentators are their own and do not necessarily represent the views of Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. Nightly Business Report, or WPBT. Information presented on Nightly Business Report is not and should not be considered as investment advice. c 2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. 

 END 

 TO PURCHASE A VIDEOTAPE OF THIS PIECE, PLEASE CALL  888-266-3601 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc.  Formatting and transcription copyright 2000 eMediaMillWorks, Inc.  (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No quotes from the materials contained herein may be used in any media without attribution to Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. This transcript may not be copied or resold in any media. 

Document nbr0000020010808dwcf0006z




 PRESS DIGEST-Wall Street Journal - Dec 15. 

444 words
15 December 2000
06:54
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 15 (Reuters) - The following stories were reported in the electronic version of The Wall Street Journal early Friday: 

 *The FTC approved the $110 billion merger of AOL and Time Warner , creating a media giant but subjecting it to tough rules, including an agreement to open cable lines to Internet rivals and accept continued monitoring. 

 *Microsoft said its quarterly sales and earnings would trail forecasts, becoming the latest casualty of the PC slump. It was the software firm's first profit warning in over 10 years. 

 *Securities regulators reached a settlement with MicroStrategy in connection with a probe of improper accounting and reporting practices at the software firm. 

 *Abbott Labs agreed to buy BASF's Knoll Pharmaceutical unit for $6.9 billion as part of an effort to boost its drug-research pipeline and increase its sales force. 

 *Inflation remains tame as the economy continues to cool, according to November's producer price index. 

 *The U.S. current-account deficit ballooned in the third quarter to a record $113.8 billion. The U.S. deficit on goods increased, while the surplus on services declined. 

 *UPS and FedEx warned that earnings will trail forecasts due to a sluggish holiday shopping season and a slowdown in U.S. firms' shipments. FedEx shares tumbled 9.3 percent; UPS lost 6.3 percent. 

 *Chase Manhattan and J.P. Morgan said earnings will be substantially lower than forecasts, largely due to weak financial markets and growing expenses. 

 *The Nasdaq composite slid 3.34 percent, while the Dow Jones industrials lost 1.11 percent. Stocks could face another test Friday as investors react to Microsoft's earnings warning. 

 *Bond prices are rallying on signs of a slowing economy and a possible Fed rate cut, sending yields lower and pushing mortgage rates to an 18-month low. 

 *Raytheon and Thales of France plan to combine some of their air-defense and radar businesses in a joint venture. 

 *NBC has replaced entertainment president Garth Ancier with "Today" show executive producer Jeff Zucker. 

 *Georgia insurance officials said they will investigate allegations that Life of Georgia charged higher premiums to African-American customers. 

 *HCA said two units would plead guilty to several criminal charges, resolving the Justice Department probe. 

 *The Diageo -Pernod team appears to be the leader in the bidding for Seagram's drinks business, though a Bacardi-Brown-Forman alliance remains a strong rival. 

 *Xerox agreed to sell its Chinese operations to Fuji Xerox - a firm in which it holds a 50 percent stake - for $550 million. 

 *Oracle slightly exceeded forecasts for the fiscal second quarter, dodging the downturn affecting other tech firms. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcf0a467




 UPDATE 3-Microsoft cuts profit forecast amid tech slump. 

 By Scott Hillis 
1,003 words
15 December 2000
01:40
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 (Updates with analyst comment graf 15, CFO comment grafs 20-24) 

 SEATTLE, Dec 14 (Reuters) - In an unprecedented earnings warning by the world's top software company, Microsoft Corp. said on Thursday that its quarterly profits would miss forecasts by 5 to 6 percent, dragged down by an industry-wide slump in consumer and business sales. 

 The lower forecast rounded out a cycle of bad news for technology companies, including profit warnings by the world's No. 1 PC maker Compaq Computer Corp. and the leading semiconductor manufacturer, Intel Corp. . 

 Microsoft, which makes the ubiquitous Windows operating system, projected that revenue for its second quarter ending Dec. 31 would come in at $6.4 billion to $6.5 billion, while earnings per share would be 46 cents or 47 cents, below the Wall Street consensus estimate of 49 cents per share. 

 Microsoft projected earnings of $1.80 to $1.82 per share for the full fiscal year, below the average Wall Street forecast of $1.91 as compiled by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 "We are seeing slowing global economic conditions, particularly in the U.S. Like many others in the industry, we are seeing accelerated slowing in PC sales as the quarter progresses," Microsoft Chief Financial Officer John Connors told a conference call. 

 "We are seeing some softness in the general level of spending in corporate IT (information technology) accounts, which is impacting our desktop software sales, and we are seeing an industry-wide slowdown in online advertising sales and subscription revenue growth, which is impacting our consumer segment," Connors said. 

 Microsoft also cut its revenue forecast for the full fiscal year to between $25.2 billion to $25.4 billion, about 5 percent lower than its previous estimate. 

 INVESTORS MAY 'FREAK OUT' 

 The announcement after the close of U.S. markets knocked Microsoft shares down 6 percent to $52-1/4 in after-hours trading, their lowest level in a week. That followed a 3 percent drop to $55-1/2 in regular Nasdaq trading. 

 Microsoft shares are down 8 percent this quarter and have tumbled from a year-high of $119-15/16 set last December. 

 "This has the potential to freak out investors," said Wit SoundView analyst Arnie Berman, saying the outright earnings warning cut to the core of Microsoft's strong record of financial predictability. "It is certainly a watershed event." 

 Although the Redmond, Wash.-based company has guided revenue forecasts lower in the past, it has never warned that it will miss earnings forecasts, he said. 

 "Microsoft is the only tech company over 10 years old that I can identify that has never warned. This company has not missed a quarter since they were incorporated," Berman said. 

 Others said it could have been worse. 

 Microsoft would still post a 6 percent rise in quarterly profits from the year-ago period, said Scott McAdams, president of Seattle-based brokerage McAdams Wright Ragen. 

 "I'd say given the environment that it's probably an achievement, but it's clearly disappointing. But given all the profit warnings this quarter it's not entirely unexpected," McAdams said, adding it was the first time he could recall a Microsoft earnings warning. 

 OFFICE SLOWING BUT WINDOWS FINE 

 Berman said while it was surprising that Microsoft had cited slower business spending, three corporate PC suppliers - PC Connection Inc. , CDW Computer Centers Inc. and Insight Enterprises - had fired off warning flares of slowing business demand over the past two weeks. 

 But Connors said the bulk of Microsoft's slowdown was in desktop applications, a segment dominated by the popular Office suite of business software. 

 Several analysts quizzed Connors on why Office, a business product, was flagging amid a consumer PC slowdown. Connors said many "consumer PCs" were in fact sold to small businesses. 

 But sales of Windows 2000, Microsoft's flagship operating system for businesses, and its line of server products like the SQL database software, appeared to be healthy, Connors said. 

 "Overall, our enterprise business does not appear to be as impacted to the same degree as our desktop or consumer business," Connors said. 

 Microsoft now expected PC sales for its fiscal 2001, which ends in June, to grow by "a couple percentage points" less than the low-to mid-teens it earlier forecast, Connors said. 

 But he said reports of the PC's death at the hands of new devices like handheld computers, cell phones and Internet appliances, was greatly exaggerated. 

 "The PC is far from dead," Connors said. "It is the single most important asset for knowledge workers now and in the future." 

 Connors said Microsoft's MSN network, which it is trying to build into a serious rival to leader America Online Inc. , was hit by slower than expected growth in subscribers and by an online advertising crunch, which has also hit leading players like Yahoo! Inc. . 

 PORTFOLIO UNDER PRESSURE? 

 Microsoft has also often used gains on its vast portfolio of investments to boost results, but Connors said he expected such gains to be in line with previous forecasts of about $800 million for the quarter. 

 That may signal that those holdings are feeling the heat. 

 "Those portfolios are under pressure right now because of the devaluation of the market," McAdams said, pointing to Microsoft's stakes in slumping firms like telecommunications giant AT&T and Dutch-based cable company UPC . 

 "Even if there are gains, they don't want to be realizing them now," McAdams said. "Nobody wants to be selling now." 

 Looking ahead, Connors said Microsoft was bullish about business in the second half of calendar 2001, noting it would roll out the next-generation of Windows, code-named Whistler, and a new version of Office. 

 "These are each very compelling products that will showcase the excitement of the personal computer. It's up to us to do a great job bringing these two break-through products to market with a great deal of enthusiasm," Connors said. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcf0a3jn




 WRAPUP - Stocks dip, bonds up on profit fears - euro strong. 

1,078 words
15 December 2000
22:58
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 15 (Reuters) - Stocks slumped and bonds rose on Friday as profit warnings from Microsoft Corp. and other major companies reinforced fears about slowing U.S. corporate profits amid fresh signs of economic slack. 

 Europe's common currency ended the week sharply higher as investors worried about economic slowdowns in the United States and Japan. Oil prices surged amid forecasts for colder weather in the eastern United States. 

 Microsoft, a Dow component and Nasdaq heavyweight, warned that a global slowdown, lower personal computer sales and less corporate spending would dent earnings and revenues. The news sent investors scuttling out of the high-tech sector and helped drive down the broad Standard & Poor's 500 index to its lowest close in more than a year. 

 The recent barrage of profit warnings overshadowed Wall Street's optimism the Federal Reserve could soon rescue corporate America from the specter of a slower economy by lowering interest rates, analysts said. The Fed next reviews interest rate policy on Tuesday. 

 "On optimistic days, people focus on the likelihood of a rate cut, and on bad days, people are going to focus on earnings disappointments," said John Forelli, a portfolio manager at Independence Investment Associates. "Today, people are worried about Microsoft." 

 The tech-packed Nasdaq Composite Index tumbled 75.27 points, or 2.76 percent, to end at 2,653.24 in extremely heavy trading, adding up to a loss of 9 percent for the week. 

 Microsoft's stock led the Nasdaq's retreat into negative territory, falling $6-5/16 to $49-3/16 after tumbling to its lowest level in more than two years at $47-3/4. Nearly 160 million of its shares changed hands. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average slumped 240.03 points, or 2.25 percent, to 10,434.96. The broader S&P 500 index sank 28.78 points, or 2.15 percent, to 1,312.15, its lowest close since October 1999. 

 Microsoft was added to a lengthy list of such marquee names as Intel Corp., Eastman Kodak Co., General Motors Corp. and Chase Manhattan Corp., which have painted dim growth pictures as the economy slows from its blockbuster pace. 

 "You get a significant hiccup in the ultimate grand-daddy of tech stocks and you do expect a sell-off," said Charles Lemonides, chief investment officer at M&R Capital Management. "We're taking the speculative air out of a bubble." 

 Friday's "triple witching" - the expiration of stock options, index options and futures - exaggerated the market's moves, analysts said. 

 Oracle Corp., the world's No. 2 software maker, offered a ray of hope as its stock gained $1-1/16 to $28-9/16 after profits beat expectations. 

 But computer-related companies suffered as Microsoft offered further evidence that growth is winding down. 

 "There's no way to really candy-coat this," said William Epifanio, an analyst at JP Morgan. "The weakness that we were seeing in the consumer PC business has spread into the corporate sector." 

 Cisco Systems Inc., the world's largest provider of gear that powers the Internet, fell $2-49/64 to $48-11/64. 

 Internet equipment suppliers suffered after Bear Stearns cut their investment ratings on the stocks, pointing to weak corporate technology spending. Sun Microsystems Inc. slid $1-1/4 to $30-7/16, and EMC Corp. fell $6-1/2 to $68-1/8. 

 Hewlett-Packard Co., a Dow component, stumbled $1-7/8 to $31-5/8 after Goldman Sachs cut its earnings estimates on the computer maker. 

 Computer giant International Business Machines lost $4-5/8 to $87-13/16 and chip behemoth Intel Corp. fell $2-11/16 to $32-7/16 - both weighing on the blue-chip gauge. 

 But the bloodshed was widespread, and earnings jitters were not restricted to the high-tech sector. 

 Clorox Co., the maker of its namesake bleach, tumbled $3-15/16 to $30-1/16 after saying dwindling sales will push its quarterly earnings below year-ago levels. 

 Polaroid Corp. lost 11/16 to $6-1/2 after issuing a profit warning in the face of lower instant film and camera shipments. 

 "We are entering a new world that's really hitting the big boys," said Barry Hyman, chief investment strategist at Weatherly Securities. 

 President-elect George W. Bush underscored investors' concerns about lackluster U.S. growth, saying he was worried about a slowdown and proposed a hefty tax cut to boost demand. 

 Earlier in the session, government data showing inflation remains tame on the consumer level raised hopes the U.S. central bank will lower interest rates in the near future. 

 While few experts expect the Fed to alter interest rates at the next policy-setting meeting Tuesday, most expect it will state the risk of recession is at least as great as the danger of inflation, putting an end to its 18-month tightening cycle. 

 At the 5 p.m. EST (2200 GMT) settlement, the 10-year U.S. Treasury note rose 9/32 to 104-91/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction of its price, fell to 5.18 percent from 5.21 percent Thursday. The 30-year bond gained 10/32, or $3.125 for each $1,000 in face value, to 112-3/32. Its yield slipped to 5.42 percent from 5.44 percent. 

 The euro rose to 90 cents, its highest in three months and a gain of 2-1/2 cents on the week. It also surged to four-month peaks against the yen at 101.37 yen, a gain of 4-1/2 yen this week. 

 At the New York Mercantile Exchange, Nymex crude oil for January delivery ended 88 cents or 3.1 percent higher at $28.87 per barrel. Heating oil for January delivery was up 2.77 cents at 91.66 cents per gallon, while January gasoline rose 1.20 cents or 1.6 percent to 75.67 cents per gallon. 

 Overseas, London's blue-chip FTSE 100 index closed down 88.0 points or 1.4 percent at 6,175.8. It slid 112.5 points, or 1.8 percent on the week to the lowest close since December 4. In Tokyo, the Nikkei average sank 374.90 or 2.51 percent to the day's low of 14,552.29, down 144.22 points during the week. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcf0a38u




 US Treasuries lifted as U.S. stocks tremble. 

 By Andrew Priest 
583 words
15 December 2000
22:41
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 15 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasuries rose on Friday as a sell-off in U.S. stocks after a late-Thursday profit warning from software giant Microsoft trumped a government report showing a modest pickup in core inflation. 

 Treasuries tend to trade inversely to stocks as investors draining money out of shares seek government guaranteed securities as a safe harbor for their funds. The S&P 500 stock index ended at its lowest level for more than a year. 

 "As we get more evidence of a slowing economy and with tech stocks getting hammered it prompts investors to look for safety and rolling into Treasuries has been the way forward for many," said Don Kowalchik, fixed income strategist at A.G. Edwards & Sons. 

 Strategists said renewed weakness in equity prices helped to lift Treasuries, which had suffered mild profit-taking earlier after a report showed November core consumer prices - the broadest measure of inflation - rose slightly more than Wall Street had expected. 

 "As long as the market is shifting toward weaker growth, the (bond) market will tend to trend higher," said Tony Richards, head of U.S. fixed-income strategy at Brinson Partners in Chicago, which manages $50 billion in fixed-income assets. 

 At the 5 p.m. (2200 GMT) New York close, 10-year Treasury notes US10YT=RR were up 9/32 from Thursday's 5 p.m. close at 104-9/32. Their yield, which moves inversely to the price, held at 5.18 percent. Thirty-year bonds US30YT=RR rose 10/32 to 112-3/32, yielding 5.42 percent. 

 Two-year notes US2YT=RR rose 1/32 to 100-13/32, yielding 5.41 percent and five-year notes US5YT=RR rose 5/32 to 102-20/32 to yield 5.14 percent. 

 The Nasdaq shed 2.8 percent while the Dow Jones industrial average fell 2.3 percent. 

 Microsoft, following the lead of many other companies heavily linked to the personal computer and technology sectors, issued its first profit warning in more than a decade after Thursday's closing bell. 

 Earlier, the Labor Department said its November consumer price index, the government's broadest measure of inflation, rose by a moderate 0.2 percent, as expected, and matching October's 0.2 percent rise. 

 Core prices, which strip out more volatile food and energy components and tend to be watched more closely by the markets, rose by 0.3 percent, more than the 0.2 percent expected and the 0.2 percent pace in October. 

 But the market overwhelmingly expects the Federal Reserve will scrap its official view that inflation poses the greatest risk to the economy when it meets to discuss interest rates on Tuesday and instead warn that a rapid slowdown in growth poses equal danger, paving the way for a possible cut in rates. 

 "What matters now is that the consensus is changing on the forward view of the economy, and that is what's driving the bond market," Richards said. 

 The bond market rally pushed yields to their lowest levels since early 1999, with two-year Treasury notes yielding 5.40 percent, a whopping 110 basis points, or 1.10 percentage point, below the 6.50 percent federal funds bank lending rate. 

 "Really at this point the thing that looks quite out of place is the funds rate," said Hussain Malik, Treasury market strategist at J.P. Morgan securities. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcf0a36u




 UPDATE 1-Bargain-hunters help Toronto stocks pare losses. 

     By Rajiv Sekhri 
651 words
15 December 2000
22:17
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

     TORONTO, Dec 15 (Reuters) - Bargain-hunters helped Toronto 

 stocks cut sharp, early losses on Friday caused by worries over 

 a profit warning from Microsoft Corp. but the market's main 

 index still closed lower. 

 The Toronto Stock Exchange 300 composite index ended 

 49.34 points, or 0.54 percent, down at 9020.04 on a high volume 

 of 169.1 million shares worth C$4.12 billion. Triple witching, 

 the simultaneous expiration of stock options, stock-index 

 options and index futures, led to the high volume and 

 volatility. 

     Market momentum was negative with decliners beating 

 advancers 631 to 468 with another 263 issues flat. 

     Earlier in the day the index dropped as low as 8942.99. The 

 TSE 300 ended the week 5.5 percent lower and stands nearly 21 

 percent below its Sept. 1 record closing high of 11,388.82. 

     "Nobody knows where the bottom is, but people are saying 

 that I may be buying at the bottom or 5 percent above it and 

 that is good enough," said Kate Warne, a Canadian market 

 strategist at Edward Jones in St. Louis, Missouri. 

 Investors flocked to battered technology stocks in the late 

 afternoon, ahead of a meeting of the U.S. Federal Reserve on 

 Dec. 19. Analysts expect the U.S. central bank to adopt a more 

 neutral outlook toward inflation at this meeting, setting the 

 stage for lower interest rates next year. If the Fed adopts a 

 neutral bias toward inflation, then analysts expect stock 

 markets to rally. 

 "I think the Fed could go to a neutral bias. That would be 

 a tremendous boost," said Elvis Picardo, an analyst at Global 

 Securities Corp. in Vancouver. 

 The blue-chip S&P/TSE 60 index was down 2.5 

 points, or nearly 0.5 percent, at 535.40. In New York, the Dow 

 Jones industrial average slumped 240.03 points, or 2.25 

 percent to 10,434.96. The tech-laced Nasdaq composite index 

  tumbled 75.27 points, or 2.76 percent, to end at 

 2653.24. 

 Investors dumped tech stocks early on Friday, following an 

 earnings forecast from Microsoft, the first one in nearly a 

 decade, and sent the industrial products sector, which houses 

 tech stocks, down 4.2 percent by midday. 

 Microsoft said a global slowdown, lower personal 

 computer sales and lower corporate spending would make it miss 

 its quarterly earnings and revenue forecasts by 5 percent to 6 

 percent. 

 Overall, seven of the TSE 300's 14 subindexes closed lower 

 on Friday. The industrial products sector, which represents 

 nearly 40 percent of the index and includes bellwether Nortel 

 Networks Corp. , ended the day down 1.5 percent. 

 In that group, Nortel ended 30 Canadian cents lower at 

 C$58.60. Electronics maker Celestica Inc. closed 

 nearly 6.5 percent lower at C$81.95. C-Mac Industries Inc. 

  ended nearly 3.5 percent lower at C$73.85. Wireless 

 company Research In Motion , which lost C$4.50 and was 

 at C$121.25 around midday, ended the day 4.2 percent higher at 

 C$131. 

 "The market's vision now is 20/20 compared to being 

 extremely myopic last year when investors cared about concepts. 

 This year they have gone back to fundamentals like earnings," 

 Picardo said. 

 The financial services subindex also pared losses and 

 closed just 0.2 percent lower. In that sector, Bank of Montreal 

  closed 1.4 percent lower at C$72.15. Toronto-Dominion 

 Bank closed 30 Canadian cents lower at C$39.90. 

 Pulling up the index was the gold and precious minerals 

 sector, in which investors found a safe haven on a day filled 

 with uncertainty in the technology sector. 

 Barrick Gold Corp. ended up 95 Canadian cents at 

 C$24.20. Placer Dome Corp. ended 60 Canadian cents 

 higher at C$14.25. 

 ($1=$1.52 Canadian). 

Document lba0000020010821dwcf0a33w




 U.S. stocks slammed as Microsoft adds to profit jitters. 

 By Elizabeth Lazarowitz 
877 words
15 December 2000
21:58
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 15 (Reuters) - Stocks fell sharply on Friday, ending the week on a sour note after software powerhouse Microsoft Corp. joined a slew of other high-profile companies in confessing its profits would not measure up. 

 Microsoft, a Dow component and Nasdaq heavyweight, warned that a global slowdown, lower personal computer sales and less corporate spending would dent earnings and revenues. The news sent investors scuttling out of the high-tech sector and helped drive down the broad Standard & Poor's 500 index to its lowest close in more than a year. 

 The recent barrage of profit warnings overshadowed Wall Street's optimism the Federal Reserve could soon rescue corporate America from the specter of a slower economy by lowering interest rates, analysts said. 

 "On optimistic days, people focus on the likelihood of a rate cut, and on bad days, people are going to focus on earnings disappointments," said John Forelli, a portfolio manager at Independence Investment Associates. "Today, people are worried about Microsoft. 

 The tech-packed Nasdaq Composite Index tumbled 75.27 points, or 2.76 percent, to end at 2,653.24 in extremely heavy trading, adding up to a loss of 9 percent for the week. 

 Microsoft's stock led the Nasdaq's retreat into negative territory, falling $6-5/16 to $49-3/16 after tumbling to its lowest level in more than two years at $47-3/4. Nearly 160 million of its shares changed hands. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial average slumped 240.03 points, or 2.25 percent, to 10,434.96. The broader S&P 500 index sank 28.78 points, or 2.15 percent, to 1,312.15, its lowest close since October 1999. 

 Microsoft was added to a lengthy list of such marquee names as Intel Corp., Eastman Kodak Co., General Motors Corp. and Chase Manhattan Corp., which have painted dim growth pictures as the economy slows from its blockbuster pace. 

 "You get a significant hiccup in the ultimate grand-daddy of tech stocks and you do expect a sell-off," said Charles Lemonides, chief investment officer at M&R Capital Management. "We're taking the speculative air out of a bubble." 

 Friday's "triple witching" - the expiration of stock options, index options and futures - exaggerated the market's moves, analysts said. 

 Oracle Corp., the world's No. 2 software maker, offered a ray of hope as its stock gained $1-1/16 to $28-9/16 after profits beat expectations. 

 But computer-related companies suffered as Microsoft offered further evidence that growth is winding down. 

 "There's no way to really candy-coat this," said William Epifanio, an analyst at JP Morgan. "The weakness that we were seeing in the consumer PC business has spread into the corporate sector." 

 Cisco Systems Inc., the world's largest provider of gear that powers the Internet, fell $2-49/64 to $48-11/64. 

 Internet equipment suppliers Sun Microsystems Inc., down $1-4/16 to $30-7/16, and EMC Corp., off $6-1/2 at $68-1/8, suffered after Bear Stearns cut their investment ratings on the stocks, pointing to weak corporate technology spending. 

 Hewlett-Packard Co., a Dow component, stumbled $1-7/8 to $31-5/8 after Goldman Sachs cut its earnings estimates on the computer maker. 

 Computer giant International Business Machines lost $4-10/16 to $87-13/16 and chip behemoth Intel Corp. fell $2-11/16 to $32-7/16 - both weighing on the blue-chip gauge. 

 But the bloodshed was widespread, and earnings jitters were not restricted to the high-tech sector. 

 Clorox Co., the maker of its namesake bleach, tumbled $3-15/16 to $30-1/16 after saying dwindling sales will push its quarterly earnings below year-ago levels. 

 Polaroid Corp. lost 11/16 to $6-1/2 after issuing a profit warning in the face of lower instant film and camera shipments. 

 No. 1 power tool maker Black & Decker Corp. lowered earnings expectations for the fourth quarter 2000 and for 2001, in part because of lower-than-expected sales, but ended up 2/16 at $32-9/16. 

 "We are entering a new world that's really hitting the big boys," said Barry Hyman, chief investment strategist at Weatherly Securities. 

 President-elect George W. Bush underscored investors' concerns about lackluster U.S. growth, saying he was worried about a slowdown and proposed a hefty tax cut to boost demand. 

 Earlier in the session, government data showing inflation remains tame on the consumer level raised hopes the U.S. central bank will lower interest rates in the near future. 

 While few experts expect the Fed to alter interest rates at the next policy-setting meeting Tuesday, most anticipate it will state the risk of recession is at least as great as the danger of inflation, putting an end to its 18-month tightening cycle. 

 "I don't think Greenspan is going to be cutting rates on Tuesday, but he's going to let people know that if the economy continues to weaken that he won't be afraid to cut rates," Independence's Forelli said. "That will get people excited again." 

Document lba0000020010821dwcf0a30x




 Bargain-hunters help Toronto stocks pare losses. 

493 words
15 December 2000
21:37
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

     TORONTO, Dec 15 (Reuters) - Bargain-hunters helped Toronto 

 stocks cut sharp, early losses on Friday caused by worries over 

 a profit warning from Microsoft Corp. but the market's main 

 index still closed lower. 


    The Toronto Stock Exchange 300 composite index	  ended



49.34 points, or 0.54 percent, down at 9020.04 on a high volume



of 169.1 million shares worth C$4.12 billion. Market momentum



was negative with decliners beating advancers 631 to 468 with



another 263 issues flat.



    Earlier in the day the index dropped as low as 8942.99.



    "Nobody knows where the bottom is, but people are saying



that I may be buying at the bottom or 5 percent above it and



that is good enough," said Kate Warne, a Canadian market



strategist at Edward Jones in St. Louis, Missouri.



    Investors flocked to battered technology stocks in the late



afternoon, ahead of a meeting of the U.S. Federal Reserve on



Dec. 19. Analysts expect the central bank to adopt a more



neutral outlook toward inflation at this meeting, setting the



stage for lower interest rates next year. If the Fed adopts a



neutral bias toward inflation, then analysts expect stock



markets to rally.



    The blue-chip S&P/TSE 60 index	    was down 2.5



points, or nearly 0.5 percent, at 535.40.



    Investors dumped tech stocks early on Friday, following an



earnings forecast from Microsoft and sent the industrial



products sector, which houses tech stocks, down 4.2 percent by



midday.



Microsoft said that the global slowdown, lower



personal computer sales and less corporate spending would make



it miss its quarterly earnings and revenue forecasts by 5



percent to 6 percent.



Overall, seven of the TSE 300's 14 subindexes closed lower



on Friday. The industrial products sector, which represents



nearly 40 percent of the index and includes bellwether Nortel



Networks Corp. , ended the day down 1.5 percent.



In that group, Nortel ended 30 Canadian cents lower at



C$58.60. Electronics maker Celestica Inc. closed



nearly 6.5 percent lower at C$81.95. C-Mac Industries Inc.



 ended nearly 3.5 percent lower at C$73.85. Wireless



company Research In Motion , which lost C$4.50 and was



at C$121.25 around midday, ended the day 4.2 percent higher at



C$131.



The financial services subindex also pared losses and



closed just 0.2 percent lower. In that sector, Bank of Montreal



 closed 1.4 percent lower at C$72.15. Toronto-Dominion



Bank closed 30 Canadian cents lower at C$39.90.



Pulling up the index was the gold and precious minerals



sector, in which investors found a safe haven on a day filled



with uncertainty in the technology sector.



Barrick Gold Corp. ended up 95 Canadian cents at



C$24.20. Placer Dome COrp. ended 60 Canadian cents



higher at C$14.25.



($1=$1.52 Canadian).


Document lba0000020010821dwcf0a2wp




 US Treasuries lift as technology stocks tremble. 

 By Andrew Priest 
565 words
15 December 2000
20:48
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 15 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasuries rose on Friday as a sell-off in U.S. stocks after a late-Thursday profit warning from software leader Microsoft Corp. trumped a government report showing a modest pickup in core inflation. 

 Treasuries tend to trade inversely to stocks as investors draining money out of shares seek government-guaranteed securities as a safe harbor for their funds. 

 "As we get more evidence of a slowing economy and with tech stocks getting hammered, it prompts investors to look for safety, and rolling into Treasuries has been the way forward for many," said Don Kowalchik, fixed income strategist at A.G. Edwards & Sons. 

 Strategists said renewed weakness in equity prices helped to lift Treasuries, which had suffered mild profit-taking earlier after a report showed November core consumer prices - the broadest measure of inflation - rose slightly more than Wall Street had expected. 

 "As long as the market is shifting toward weaker growth, the (bond) market will tend to trend higher," said Tony Richards, head of U.S. fixed-income strategy at Brinson Partners in Chicago, which manages $50 billion in fixed-income assets. 

 At the 3 p.m. EST New York settlement, 10-year Treasury notes rose 8/32 from Thursday's 5 p.m. EST (2200 GMT) close to 104-9/32. Their yield, which moves inversely to the price, held at 5.18 percent. Thirty-year bonds rose 5/32 to 111-30/32, yielding 5.43 percent. 

 Two-year notes rose 4/32 to 100-14/32, yielding 5.38 percent, and five-year notes rose 6/32 to 102-20/32 to yield 5.14 percent. 

 The Nasdaq, meanwhile, halved earlier losses to shed around 2 percent. The Dow Jones industrial average was 1.3 percent in the red. 

 Microsoft, following the lead of many other companies heavily linked to the personal computer and technology sectors, issued its first profit warning in more than a decade after Thursday's closing bell. 

 Earlier, the Labor Department said its November consumer price index, the government's broadest measure of inflation, rose by a moderate 0.2 percent, as expected, matching October's 0.2 percent rise. 

 Core prices, which strip out more volatile food and energy components and tend to be watched more closely by the markets, rose by 0.3 percent, more than the 0.2 percent expected and the 0.2 percent pace in October. 

 But the market overwhelmingly expects the Federal Reserve will scrap its official view that inflation poses the greatest risk to the economy when it meets to discuss interest rates on Tuesday and instead warn that a rapid slowdown in growth poses equal danger, paving the way for a possible cut in rates. 

 "What matters now is that the consensus is changing on the forward view of the economy, and that is what's driving the bond market," Richards said. 

 The bond market rally pushed yields to their lowest levels since early 1999, with two-year Treasury notes yielding 5.40 percent, a whopping 110 basis points, or 1.10 percentage points, below the 6.50 percent federal funds bank lending rate. 

 "Really at this point the thing that looks quite out of place is the funds rate," said Hussain Malik, Treasury market strategist at J.P. Morgan securities. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcf0a2o1




 In an unprecedented earnings warning by the world's top software company, Microsoft Corp... 

 By Scott Hillis 
997 words
15 December 2000
07:58
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 SEATTLE, Dec 14 (Reuters) - In an unprecedented earnings warning by the world's top software company, Microsoft Corp. said on Thursday that its quarterly profits would miss forecasts by 5 to 6 percent, dragged down by an industry-wide slump in consumer and business sales. 

 The lower forecast rounded out a cycle of bad news for technology companies, including profit warnings by the world's No. 1 PC maker Compaq Computer Corp. and the leading semiconductor manufacturer, Intel Corp. . 

 Microsoft, which makes the ubiquitous Windows operating system, projected that revenue for its second quarter ending Dec. 31 would come in at $6.4 billion to $6.5 billion, while earnings per share would be 46 cents or 47 cents, below the Wall Street consensus estimate of 49 cents per share. 

 Microsoft projected earnings of $1.80 to $1.82 per share for the full fiscal year, below the average Wall Street forecast of $1.91 as compiled by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 "We are seeing slowing global economic conditions, particularly in the U.S. Like many others in the industry, we are seeing accelerated slowing in PC sales as the quarter progresses," Microsoft Chief Financial Officer John Connors told a conference call. 

 "We are seeing some softness in the general level of spending in corporate IT (information technology) accounts, which is impacting our desktop software sales, and we are seeing an industry-wide slowdown in online advertising sales and subscription revenue growth, which is impacting our consumer segment," Connors said. 

 Microsoft also cut its revenue forecast for the full fiscal year to between $25.2 billion to $25.4 billion, about 5 percent lower than its previous estimate. 

 INVESTORS MAY 'FREAK OUT' 

 The announcement after the close of U.S. markets knocked Microsoft shares down 6 percent to $52-1/4 in after-hours trading, their lowest level in a week. That followed a 3 percent drop to $55-1/2 in regular Nasdaq trading. 

 Microsoft shares are down 8 percent this quarter and have tumbled from a year-high of $119-15/16 set last December. 

 "This has the potential to freak out investors," said Wit SoundView analyst Arnie Berman, saying the outright earnings warning cut to the core of Microsoft's strong record of financial predictability. "It is certainly a watershed event." 

 Although the Redmond, Wash.-based company has guided revenue forecasts lower in the past, it has never warned that it will miss earnings forecasts, he said. 

 "Microsoft is the only tech company over 10 years old that I can identify that has never warned. This company has not missed a quarter since they were incorporated," Berman said. 

 Others said it could have been worse. 

 Microsoft would still post a 6 percent rise in quarterly profits from the year-ago period, said Scott McAdams, president of Seattle-based brokerage McAdams Wright Ragen. 

 "I'd say given the environment that it's probably an achievement, but it's clearly disappointing. But given all the profit warnings this quarter it's not entirely unexpected," McAdams said, adding it was the first time he could recall a Microsoft earnings warning. 

 OFFICE SLOWING BUT WINDOWS FINE 

 Berman said while it was surprising that Microsoft had cited slower business spending, three corporate PC suppliers - PC Connection Inc. , CDW Computer Centers Inc. and Insight Enterprises - had fired off warning flares of slowing business demand over the past two weeks. 

 But Connors said the bulk of Microsoft's slowdown was in desktop applications, a segment dominated by the popular Office suite of business software. 

 Several analysts quizzed Connors on why Office, a business product, was flagging amid a consumer PC slowdown. Connors said many "consumer PCs" were in fact sold to small businesses. 

 But sales of Windows 2000, Microsoft's flagship operating system for businesses, and its line of server products like the SQL database software, appeared to be healthy, Connors said. 

 "Overall, our enterprise business does not appear to be as impacted to the same degree as our desktop or consumer business," Connors said. 

 Microsoft now expected PC sales for its fiscal 2001, which ends in June, to grow by "a couple percentage points" less than the low-to mid-teens it earlier forecast, Connors said. 

 But he said reports of the PC's death at the hands of new devices like handheld computers, cell phones and Internet appliances, was greatly exaggerated. 

 "The PC is far from dead," Connors said. "It is the single most important asset for knowledge workers now and in the future." 

 Connors said Microsoft's MSN network, which it is trying to build into a serious rival to leader America Online Inc. , was hit by slower than expected growth in subscribers and by an online advertising crunch, which has also hit leading players like Yahoo! Inc. . 

 PORTFOLIO UNDER PRESSURE? 

 Microsoft has also often used gains on its vast portfolio of investments to boost results, but Connors said he expected such gains to be in line with previous forecasts of about $800 million for the quarter. 

 That may signal that those holdings are feeling the heat. 

 "Those portfolios are under pressure right now because of the devaluation of the market," McAdams said, pointing to Microsoft's stakes in slumping firms like telecommunications giant AT&T and Dutch-based cable company UPC . 

 "Even if there are gains, they don't want to be realizing them now," McAdams said. "Nobody wants to be selling now." 

 Looking ahead, Connors said Microsoft was bullish about business in the second half of calendar 2001, noting it would roll out the next-generation of Windows, code-named Whistler, and a new version of Office. 

 "These are each very compelling products that will showcase the excitement of the personal computer. It's up to us to do a great job bringing these two break-through products to market with a great deal of enthusiasm," Connors said. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcf0a2gd




 U.S. stocks pare losses after Microsoft news prompts thrashing. 

 By Elizabeth Lazarowitz 
659 words
15 December 2000
20:19
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 15 (Reuters) - Stocks struggled to cut their losses in late afternoon trading on Friday after software powerhouse Microsoft Corp. joined other high-profile companies in predicting weaker earnings to come. 

 The recent barrage of profit warnings overshadowed Wall Street's optimism that the Federal Reserve could soon rescue corporate America from the specter of a slower economy by lowering interest rates, analysts said. 

 Microsoft, a Dow component and Nasdaq heavyweight, warned that a global slowdown, lower personal computer sales and less corporate spending would dent earnings and revenues. Its stock lost more than 11 percent, or $6-1/2, to $49 after tumbling to its lowest level in more than two years at $48-3/8. The number of Microsoft shares changing hands topped 120 million. 

 "On optimistic days, people focus on the likelihood of a rate cut, and on bad days, people are going to focus on earnings disappointments," said John Forelli, a portfolio manager at Independence Investment Associates. "Today, people are worried about Microsoft. 

 The tech-packed Nasdaq Composite Index tumbled 53.36 points, or 1.96 percent, to 2,675.15. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average slumped 119.06 points, or 1.12 percent, to 10,555.93. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index sank 15.36 points, or 1.15 percent, to 1,325.57. 

 Microsoft added itself to a lengthy list of such marquee names as Intel Corp., Eastman Kodak Co., General Motors Corp. and Chase Manhattan Corp. which have painted dim growth pictures as the economy slows from its blockbuster pace. 

 "You get a significant hiccup in the ultimate grand-daddy of tech stocks, and you do expect a sell-off," said Charles Lemonides, chief investment officer at M&R Capital Management. "We're taking the speculative air out of a bubble." 

 Today's "triple witching" - the expiration of stock options, index options and futures - exaggerated the market's moves, analysts said. 

 Oracle Corp., the world's No. 2 software maker, offered a ray of hope as its stock gained $1-3/4 to $29-1/4 after its profits beat expectations. 

 But computer-related companies suffered as Microsoft offered further evidence that growth is winding down. 

 "There's no way to really candy-coat this," said William Epifanio, an analyst at JP Morgan. "The weakness that we were seeing in the consumer PC business has spread into the corporate sector." 

 Cisco Systems Inc., the world's largest provider of gear that powers the Internet, fell $1-10/16 to $49-1/4. 

 Internet equipment suppliers Sun Microsystems Inc., down $1-8/16 to $30-3/16, and EMC Corp., off $5-1/2 at $69-1/8, suffered after Bear Stearns cut their investment ratings on the stocks, pointing to weak corporate technology spending. 

 Hewlett-Packard Co., a Dow component, stumbled $1-3/8 to $32-1/8 after Goldman Sachs cut its earnings estimates on the computer maker. 

 Computer giant International Business Machines lost $3-13/16 at $88-5/8 and chip behemoth Intel Corp. fell $1-3/4 to $33-3/8 - both weighing on the blue-chip gauge. 

 But earnings jitters were not restricted to the tech sector. 

 Clorox Co., the maker of its namesake bleach, tumbled $4-1/8 to $29-7/8 after saying dwindling sales will push its quarterly earnings below year-ago levels. 

 No. 1 power tool maker Black & Decker Corp. dropped 11/16 to $31-3/4 after it lowered earnings expectations for the fourth quarter 2000 and for 2001, in part because of lower-than-expected sales. 

 Polaroid Corp. lost 9/16 to $6-5/8 after issuing a profit warning in the face of lower instant film and camera shipments. 

 "We are entering new world that's really hitting the big boys," said Barry Hyman, chief investment strategist at Weatherly Securities. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcf0a2el

Search Summary

 Text((“profit*” same “warning*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”))) OR ((“profit*” same “fall*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“headwind” same “profit*”) (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”)))   Date12/01/2000 to 12/31/2000   SourceAll Sources   AuthorAll Authors   CompanyAll Companies   SubjectCorporate/Industrial News   IndustryAll Industries   RegionUnited States   LanguageEnglish   Results Found261   Timestamp27 March 2018 10:28  




•	  UPDATE 2-Polaroid slashes Q4 forecast, retail shipments down. 
•	  Polaroid slashes Q4 forecast, retail shipments down. 
•	  U.S. stocks tread near lows, beaten by Microsoft gloom. 
•	  Wall St fears weakness spreading to corporate tech mkt. 
•	  US Treasuries up as technology stocks nosedive. 
•	  Toronto stocks lower at midday as techs sink. 
•	  Toronto stocks weighed down by techs at open. 
•	 US T-bonds  cut  losses, jump higher as stocks slump.
•	  U.S. Treasuries drift lower after core CPI jump. 
•	  FOREX-Euro bursts above 101 yen, knocks down dollar. 
•	  U.S. Treasuries inch higher, await inflation report. 
•	  FOREX-Euro flies above 101 yen, beats down dollar. 
•	  Polaroid cuts Q4 earnings view, sees break even. 
•	  U.S. stocks uneasy in Europe on Microsoft warning. 
•	  FOREX-Euro flies above 101 yen, beats down dollar. 
•	  UPDATE 2-Clorox to streamline manufacturing. 
•	  Bearish Sentiment Descends On European Bank Stocks  
•	 Bank, Brokerage Stocks  Decline ; J.P. Morgan, Chase, Citigroup Fall
•	  Asian shares fall on Wall Street, US economic concerns 
•	  Share prices plunge / Microsoft hits world markets. 
•	 Microsoft Skids Into PC Industry's Pileup --- Revenue to Trail Forecasts For Quarter by 5% to 6% As Businesses  Cut  Back
•	  UPS, FedEx Expect Earnings Shortfalls 
•	 FFBN Tech Wrap: Microsoft  Profit Warning  Sends Stks Down
•	  Chase and J.P. Morgan Issue Warning on Profits --- Merger Partners Will Miss 4th-Quarter Estimates 
•	  DaimlerChrysler to Temporarily Idle Some Plants in Early January 
•	 Mexico's Femsa Shares Plunge After 4Q  Profit Warning
•	 JP Morgan bonuses hold up amid job  cut  gloom.
•	  ADR REPORT-Foreign shares fall under weight of profit woes. 
•	  HOT STOCKS HIGHLIGHTS - Dec. 14. 
•	  WRAPUP 1-Bank shares hurt by Chase/JP Morgan, downgrades. 
•	  Chase, JP Morgan see weak profits, shed 5,000 jobs. 
•	  Compaq's Warning Stings Techs; IBM, Hewlett-Packard, Dell Fall   
•	 Schwab Hints at Disappointing Profits; Daily average trades drop in November
•	 Companies: Compaq Says That Its  Profit  Won't Meet Expectations --- U.S. Computer Giant Is Hurt by Weakening Demand ---  Warning  Follows Similar Cautions From Gateway, Apple and Intel
•	  Profit warnings wreck the Bush victory party. 
•	  IN THE MONEY 
•	  Wall Street's early rally ends in slump: Technology sector fears 
•	  FFBN Retail Wrap: Most Sectors Post Losses 
•	  breakingviews.com: First, Bush Ought to Burst the Bubble --- A Hard Landing Would Damage U.S. Republicans Less Now Than Later --- Here's...
•	  GM, Ford Announce Plans to Idle Some U.S. Plants Amid Production Cuts 
•	  Legg Mason Value Trust Manager:Focus On Long-Term Return 
•	  Randstad to unveil profit measures within a week. 
•	  RESEARCH ALERT-ABN-AMRO cuts Compaq EPS estimate. 
•	  Earnings jitters shatter tech stocks' election euphoria. 
•	  U.S. tech stocks plumb lows - election end in sight. 
•	  U.S. Nasdaq staggers to lows - blue chips steady. 
•	  U.S. tech stocks mired in red, blue chips hold ground. 
•	  U.S. stocks fall as tech-growth woes eclipse Bush-Gore drama. 
•	 Kodak drops earnings projections
•	 Delphi weighs selling off divisions to regain footing in auto market
•	 Technology Compaq Is Latest to Sound Sales and  Profit Warning  Outlook: The leading PC maker says targets for the fourth quarter and next year won't be met.
•	  Kodak lowers forecasts amid shift toward digital. 
•	  Stocks mixed at Wall Street close 
•	  Profit warnings serve blow to BAE. 
•	 Kodak lowers forecast for profits once again
•	  Compaq Warns Results to Trail Expectations 
•	  FFBN Retail Wrap: Most Sectors Post Losses 
•	 Whirlpool Issues  Profit Warning , Plans 'Significant' Job Cuts
•	  GM Europe Cuts Painful But Overdue Tonic For Mgmt Flaws 
•	  Swiss Car Suppliers Not Fazed By Sector's Bumpy Ride 
•	  N.Y. Stocks Mostly Lower As Profit Woes Zing Techs 
•	  General Motors dumps Oldsmobile in latest restructuring plans. 
•	  Markets Earnings Warnings Might Be Losing Shock Value 
•	  Companies: Lowe's Lowers Profit Outlook As Sales Slow --- Consumer Confidence Is Weaker, Firm Says 
•	  Lowe's Cites Slow Sales, Economy As It Lowers Its Profit Outlook 
•	  Kodak will miss fourth-quarter earnings projection 
•	  Kodak will miss fourth-quarter earnings projection 
•	  Kodak will miss fourth-quarter earnings projection 
•	 Delphi Automotive Issues  Profit Warning  Amid Slowdown in Auto Industry
•	  N.Y. Stocks End Mixed; For Tech, Third Time No Charm 
•	  MARKET TALK: Why Hold BKHM When Target Is Less Than Price? 
•	  MARKET TALK: Midcaps Have Been Place To Be This Year 
•	  MARKET TALK: Lehman Price Target On Commerce One $55 
•	  MARKET TALK: Prudential Trims Views On Nordstrom 
•	  MARKET TALK: Tyson Sees IBP Bid Acing Regulatory Test 
•	  MARKET TALK: Earnings Aren't Driving These Stocks 
•	  UPDATE 1-Bank of America forms debt business, Bunn to leave. 
•	  UPDATE 2-Autoliv warns on profits, shares tumble. 
•	 Adtran falls after  profit warning , downgrade.
•	  Slowdown in Tech Spending Could Limit Sector's Rebound 
•	  BRIDGE UPDATE-MAJOR MARKETS - US stocks off session highs. 
•	  Horror Story: Are the serial earnings slashings almost over on Wall Street? 
•	  Patience Pays: Why Smith Barney's European fund has kept its faith in Finland's Nokia 
•	  Dining 'al desko' in Don Mills: It's just me, myself and Alan Grinchspan 
•	  Motorola's lowers Q4 earnings. 
•	  Nightly Business Report 
•	  RESEARCH ALERT-Bernstein cuts views on Coca-Cola volume, EPS. 
•	 Coca-Cola Enterprises falls after  profit warning .
•	  Toronto stocks may open higher despite Intel warning. 
•	  U.S. stocks to rally despite Intel warning - data helping. 
•	 UPDATE 1 - Danish NKT issues 2000  profit warning .
•	 Danish NKT issues  profit warning ,plans share split.
•	  Firm Intel in Europe boosts NY prospects. 
•	  UPDATE 3-Intel warns 4th-quarter revenues below expectations. 
•	 UPDATE 1-Coca-Cola Enterprises falls after  profit warning .
•	 Toronto stocks shine despite  profit - warning  clouds.
•	  Earnings worries send Nasdaq lower again 
•	 Wall St sell-off dampens the Greenspan euphoria
•	  BUSINESS TODAY Series: BUSINESS TODAY  
•	  German Stocks PM - DAX continues gains amid positive sentiment. ?
 

 UPDATE 2-Polaroid slashes Q4 forecast, retail shipments down. 

 By Tim McLaughlin 
521 words
15 December 2000
15:55
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 (Recasts, adds chairman, analyst comments, 2001 outlook, byline) 

 CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Dec 15 (Reuters) - Polaroid Corp. on Friday slashed its fourth-quarter operating profit forecast to about break-even and said it will sell real estate and cut spending to counter lower instant film and camera shipments. 

 Wall Street analysts said Polaroid's profit warning was not surprising after photography icon Eastman Kodak Co. on Tuesday cut its fourth-quarter outlook for the second time in three months. Polaroid shares slumped 5/8, or 8.7 percent, to $6-9/16 in Friday morning trading, down nearly 77 percent this year and just above a 52-week low of $6-3/8. 

 Polaroid and Kodak add their names to a growing list of household brands that have announced lowered expectations as the economy slows from its torrid pace. The slowdown has hit leaders in every industry, including the world's largest automaker, General Motors Corp., and software giant Microsoft Corp.. 

 Polaroid Chairman Gary DiCamillo told analysts on a conference call that he would consider restructuring charges next year if crucial holiday sales during the next two weeks prove disappointing. 

 "I am not optimistic about the economic environment next year," he said. 

 Before the market opened, Polaroid said fourth-quarter operating profit could fall by $40 million to $45 million, leading the company to break even in the period, and revenues could drop by $60 to $70 million. DiCamillo blamed reduced shipments to retailers, who cut orders for Polaroid's traditional film and cameras. 

 "We're trying to get the bulk of this inventory reduction behind us this quarter," he said. 

 But with an anticipated $21 million in interest payments due in the fourth quarter, DiCamillo said, Polaroid could post a net loss unless asset sales and cost cutting offset that amount. 

 Analysts had been calling for Polaroid to earn 52 cents per share in the fourth quarter, according to data compiled by research firm First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Polaroid also said it is adopting a more conservative outlook for 2001 but did not give a revised projection. Analysts on average expect earnings of $1.51 a share for next year, according to First Call. 

 "We want to see how Christmas goes for us," DiCamillo said, when pressed for more details. 

 Polaroid's traditional instant cameras face a challenge from new digital cameras, with pictures that can be instantly loaded onto computers and printed. 

 By reducing manufacturing costs and selling real estate, Polaroid will generate cash to pay down debt and finance the launch of new digital products. 

 Meanwhile, analyst Peter Enderlin of Ryan-Beck, Southeast, said Polaroid's most popular instant cameras, the I-Zone and JoyCam, have a "faddish element" because their primary buyers are teenagers. 

 "The question is, 'Do they have staying power?'" Enderlin said. 

 Polaroid said it will sell real estate, including a 56-acre site in Waltham, Mass., and cut 2001 capital expenditures from a current level of $135 million. It said those actions will allow the company to reduce debt by at least $100 million. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcf0a2dp
?
 

 Polaroid slashes Q4 forecast, retail shipments down. 

 By Tim McLaughlin 
527 words
15 December 2000
16:50
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Dec 15 (Reuters) - Polaroid Corp. on Friday slashed its fourth-quarter operating profit forecast to about break-even and said it will sell real estate and cut spending to counter lower instant film and camera shipments. 

 Wall Street analysts said Polaroid's profit warning was not surprising after photography icon Eastman Kodak Co. on Tuesday cut its fourth-quarter outlook for the second time in three months. Polaroid shares slumped 5/8, or 8.7 percent, to $6-9/16 in Friday morning trading, down nearly 77 percent this year and just above a 52-week low of $6-3/8. 

 Polaroid and Kodak add their names to a growing list of household brands that have announced lowered expectations as the economy slows from its torrid pace. The slowdown has hit leaders in every industry, including the world's largest automaker, General Motors Corp. , and software giant Microsoft Corp. . 

 Polaroid Chairman Gary DiCamillo told analysts on a conference call that he would consider restructuring charges next year if crucial holiday sales during the next two weeks prove disappointing. 

 "I am not optimistic about the economic environment next year," he said. 

 Before the market opened, Polaroid said fourth-quarter operating profit could fall by $40 million to $45 million, leading the company to break even in the period, and revenues could drop by $60 to $70 million. DiCamillo blamed reduced shipments to retailers, who cut orders for Polaroid's traditional film and cameras. 

 "We're trying to get the bulk of this inventory reduction behind us this quarter," he said. 

 But with an anticipated $21 million in interest payments due in the fourth quarter, DiCamillo said, Polaroid could post a net loss unless asset sales and cost cutting offset that amount. 

 Analysts had been calling for Polaroid to earn 52 cents per share in the fourth quarter, according to data compiled by research firm First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Polaroid also said it is adopting a more conservative outlook for 2001 but did not give a revised projection. Analysts on average expect earnings of $1.51 a share for next year, according to First Call. 

 "We want to see how Christmas goes for us," DiCamillo said, when pressed for more details. 

 Polaroid's traditional instant cameras face a challenge from new digital cameras, with pictures that can be instantly loaded onto computers and printed. 

 By reducing manufacturing costs and selling real estate, Polaroid will generate cash to pay down debt and finance the launch of new digital products. 

 Meanwhile, analyst Peter Enderlin of Ryan-Beck, Southeast, said Polaroid's most popular instant cameras, the I-Zone and JoyCam, have a "faddish element" because their primary buyers are teenagers. 

 "The question is, 'Do they have staying power?'" Enderlin said. 

 Polaroid said it will sell real estate, including a 56-acre site in Waltham, Mass., and cut 2001 capital expenditures from a current level of $135 million. It said those actions will allow the company to reduce debt by at least $100 million. 

 (Boston newsroom 617-367-4106; fax 617-248-9563; e-mail boston.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

Document lba0000020010821dwcf0a28h
?
 

 U.S. stocks tread near lows, beaten by Microsoft gloom. 

 By Elizabeth Lazarowitz 
588 words
15 December 2000
19:03
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 15 (Reuters) - Stocks succumbed to heavy selling in early afternoon trading on Friday after software powerhouse Microsoft Corp. joined other high-profile companies predicting soft economic growth would crimp profits. 

 "You get a significant hiccup in the ultimate grand-daddy of tech stocks, and you do expect a sell-off," said Charles Lemonides, chief investment officer at M&R Capital Management. "We're taking the speculative air out of a bubble." 

 Microsoft, a Dow component and Nasdaq heavyweight, warned that a global slowdown, lower personal computer sales and less corporate spending would dent earnings and revenues. Its stock lost about 12 percent, or $6-5/8, to $48-15/16 after tumbling to its lowest level in more than two years at 48-3/8. The number of Microsoft shares changing hands topped 100 million. 

 The tech-packed Nasdaq Composite Index tumbled 119.52 points, or 4.38 percent, to 2,608.99. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average slumped 198.69 points, or 1.86 percent, to 10,476.30. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index sank 31.18 points, or 2.33 percent, to 1,309.75, threatening to close at a new low for the year 2000. 

 Microsoft added itself to a lengthy list of such marquee names as Intel Corp., Eastman Kodak Co., General Motors Corp. and Chase Manhattan Corp. which have painted dim growth pictures as the economy slows from its blockbuster pace. 

 Today's "triple witching" - the expiration of stock options, index options and futures - exaggerated the market's moves, analysts said. 

 Oracle Corp., the world's No. 2 software maker, offered a ray of hope as its stock gained $1-11/16 to $29-3/16 after its profits beat expectations. 

 But computer-related companies suffered as Microsoft offered further evidence that growth is winding down. 

 "There's no way to really candy-coat this," said William Epifanio, an analyst at JP Morgan. "The weakness that we were seeing in the consumer PC business has spread into the corporate sector." 

 Cisco Systems Inc., the world's largest provider of gear that powers the Internet, fell $3-3/16 to $47-3/4. 

 Internet equipment suppliers Sun Microsystems Inc., down $3-3/16 to $28-1/2, and EMC Corp., off $7-15/16 at $66-11/16, suffered after Bear Stearns cut their investment ratings on the stocks and pointed to weak corporate technology spending. 

 Hewlett-Packard Co., a Dow component, stumbled $2-1/16 to $31-7/16 after Goldman Sachs cut its earnings estimates on the computer maker. 

 Computer giant International Business Machines lost $4-9/16 at $87-7/8 and chip behemoth Intel Corp. fell $2-1/4 to $32-7/8 - both weighing on the blue-chip gauge. 

 Clorox Co., the maker of its namesake bleach, tumbled $3-151/6 to $30-1/16 after saying quarterly earnings will fall below year-ago levels, on lower sales. 

 No. 1 power tool maker Black & Decker Corp. dropped $1 to $31-7/16 after it lowered earnings expectations for the fourth quarter 2000 and for 2001, in part because of lower-than-expected sales. 

 Polaroid Corp. lost 11/16 at $6-1/2 after issuing a profit warning in the face of lower instant film and camera shipments. 

 "We are entering new world that's really hitting the big boys," said Barry Hyman, chief investment strategist at Weatherly Securities. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcf0a25g
?
 

 Wall St fears weakness spreading to corporate tech mkt. 

 By Eric Auchard 
954 words
15 December 2000
16:35
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 15 (Reuters) - The tide of earnings warnings from technology leaders has taken a worrisome twist in recent days: the widely recognized slowdown in U.S. consumer computer spending may be spreading into the larger business arena. 

 The slew of profit warnings in the past two weeks came from companies with sales heavily geared to consumers. The warning from Microsoft Corp. late on Thursday highlighted that businesses too are holding off on purchases, and the burgeoning economic slowdown may be more widespread than previously thought. 

 "What's new in hearing that consumer PCs have slowed? I think my mom understands that," Wit SoundView technology strategist Arnie Berman said. "I am not so sure my mom understands that corporate demand has been slowing, but most of Wall Street has figured that out in recent weeks," he said. 

 Consumer PC spending accounts for only about 15 percent of overall technology spending, with the remainder coming from businesses, who buy computers and other equipment for office workers and to provide services to pass onto consumers. 

 Fears are mounting on Wall Street that the titans of corporate technology spending - companies like International Business Machines Corp., EMC Corp., Sun Microsystems Inc. and Dell Computer Corp. - may be next in line to issue warnings of slowing growth. 

 Among top names, analysts see forecasts for fourth-quarter results at IBM, the world's largest and most-diversified computer company, as the biggest at risk. 

 Reflecting mounting concerns over the outlook of tech stock leaders previously considered likely to dodge any consumer-related computer spending slowdown, shares of IBM fell $3-3/4 to a new year low of $88-11/16. Sun fell $2-5/16 to $29-3/8, also a new year low. EMC dropped $6-1/2 to $68-1/8, still 50 percent above its year-low levels. Microsoft lost $5-1/4 from Thursday's close to $50-1/4, just off year lows. 

 BROKERAGES NOW MORE WORRIED OVER IBM, EMC, SUN AND HEWLETT 

 "We continue to believe that IBM cannot avoid deteriorating industry fundamentals this quarter, which extend to the enterprise and commercial markets," Credit Suisse First Boston analyst Kevin McCarthy wrote in a note to clients on Friday. 

 "As a result, we believe there is downside to the Street's $26.75 billion revenue expectation for" the fourth quarter, McCarthy said. He holds a price target of $85 on IBM stock, down from its $92-7/16 closing price on Thursday. 

 However, IBM's Chairman and Chief Executive Louis Gerstner said in an interview on Tuesday that he was seeing shifts in technology spending to new Internet tools, rather than an overall slowdown in spending on technology. 

 "From my perspective, it's a little too early to predict that what we're seeing is in fact a slowdown in any economy," Gerstner told Reuters in the interview earlier this week. 

 An IBM spokesman declined to comment on Friday. 

 Late on Thursday, Bear Stearns analyst Andy Neff said he cut ratings to attractive from buy on EMC Corp. and Sun Microsystems Inc., two top Internet equipment suppliers he once thought insulated from economic weakness. 

 "While both companies, EMC and Sun, are leaders ... a slowdown in corporate IT (information technology) spending can impact both companies' financial performance - gravity is bound to take over," Neff wrote in a note to clients. 

 Neff said he was maintaining his earnings estimates on the company, but noted they were at risk of being cut. 

 "We are seeing signs of this weakness spreading into small/medium corporate (PCs) and of aggressive pricing in low-end servers. This weakness is bound to spread," he said. 

 Also on Friday, Goldman Sachs analyst Laura Conigliaro said she had cut her fiscal year 2001 earnings estimate by 5 percent on computer maker Hewlett-Packard Co.. 

 Earlier this week the company said its outlook was unchanged from the guidance it had given to analysts late last month that PC sales were soft but that its revenue would still grow 15-17 percent in its fiscal year ending in October 2001. 

 HARBINGERS OF CORPORATE PC SLOWDOWN 

 Over the past two weeks, three corporate PC suppliers - PC Connection Inc., CDW Computer Centers Inc. and Insight Enterprises - have fired off warning flares of slowing business demand. 

 Microsoft said slower sales were concentrated in its desktop software applications unit, a segment dominated by the popular Office suite of business software. This softness appeared tied to weak sales of "consumer PCs," many of which in fact are sold to small and mid-sized businesses, the company said. 

 However, the company said sales of Windows 2000, Microsoft's flagship operating system for businesses, and its line of server products like the SQL database software, were not being affected to the same degree as Office, it said. 

 Microsoft now expects PC sales for its fiscal year ending in June 2001 to grow by "a couple percentage points," down from the low-to mid-teens it previously forecast, and far off the historic rate above 20 percent it maintained earlier in 2000. 

 Microsoft said it fell prey to some of the same forces that many of the top personal computer manufacturers and component suppliers have warned were slowing growth in their businesses, leading them to report warnings of their own. 

 Earlier this week, No. 1-ranked PC maker Compaq Computer Corp. blamed slow demand from U.S. consumers, small businesses and dot-com firms for slowing fourth-quarter growth. Compaq joined Intel Corp., Gateway Inc., Advanced Micro Devices Inc., Motorola Inc. and Apple Computer Inc., which have produced similar warnings: post-Thanksgiving U.S. consumer PC sales are a bust. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcf0a22l
?
 

 US Treasuries up as technology stocks nosedive. 

 By Ross Finley 
592 words
15 December 2000
18:20
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 15 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasuries rose on Friday as an equity sell-off sparked by a late-Thursday profit warning from software giant Microsoft eclipsed a government report showing a modest pickup in core inflation. 

 Treasuries often trade inversely to stocks as investors temporarily park funds in low-risk government securities. Bond dealers also bid up Treasury prices in anticipation of such trades. 

 "It had seemed that the equity market had found some temporary stability and had rallied a little bit and now we're pretty much back to the lows that we've seen," said Hussain Malik, Treasury market strategist at J.P. Morgan securities, referring to the plunge in the tech-weighted Nasdaq composite. 

 Strategists said renewed weakness in equity prices helped to lift Treasuries, which had suffered mild profit-taking earlier after news core consumer prices in November rose slightly more than Wall Street had expected. 

 "As long as the market is shifting toward weaker growth, the (bond) market will tend to trend higher," said Tony Richards, head of U.S. fixed-income strategy at Brinson Partners in Chicago, which manages $50 billion in fixed-income assets. 

 At 12:50 p.m. (1750 GMT), 10-year Treasury notes rose 7/32 from Thursday's 5 p.m. close to 104-6/32. Their yield, which moves inversely to the price, held at 5.19 percent. Thirty-year bonds rose 9/32 to 112-2/32, yielding 5.42 percent. 

 Two-year notes rose 5/32 to 100-15/32, yielding 5.37 percent and five-year notes rose 5/32 to 102-19/32 to yield 5.14 percent. 

 The Nasdaq, meanwhile, shed 125 points or 4.6 percent to 2,603, only a few points off its year closing low hit at the end of November. The Dow Jones industrial average was 211 points or 2 percent in the red at 10,462. 

 Analysts said Friday's "triple witching" - the expiration of stock options, index options and futures - probably exaggerated some of the movements in share prices. 

 Microsoft, following the lead of many other companies heavily linked to the personal computer and technology sectors, issued its first profit warning in more than a decade after Thursday's closing bell. 

 Earlier, the Labor Department said its November consumer price index, the government's broadest measure of inflation, rose by a moderate 0.2 percent, as expected, matching October's 0.2 percent rise. 

 Core prices, which strip out more volatile food and energy components and tend to be watched more closely by the markets, rose by 0.3 percent, more than the 0.2 percent expected and the 0.2 percent pace in October. 

 But the market overwhelmingly expects the Federal Reserve will next week scrap its official view that inflation poses the greatest risk to the economy and instead warn that a rapid slowdown in growth poses equal danger, paving the way for a possible cut in rates. 

 "What matters now is that the consensus is changing on the forward view of the economy, and that is what's driving the bond market," Richards said. 

 The bond market rally pushed yields to near two-year lows at midday, with two-year Treasury notes yielding 5.38 percent, a whopping 112 basis points, or 1.12 percentage point, below the 6.50 percent federal funds bank lending rate. 

 "Really at this point the thing that looks quite out of place is the funds rate," Malik said. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcf0a1w5
?
 

 Toronto stocks lower at midday as techs sink. 

311 words
15 December 2000
17:20
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

     TORONTO, Dec 15 (Reuters) - Technology stocks had sunk 

 further by midday on Friday in the wake of a profit warning

 from Microsoft Corp., dragging Toronto's benchmark stock index 

 nearly 1.8 percent lower. 


    The Toronto Stock Exchange 300 composite index	  was



160 points lower at 8909.38 on volume of 92.4 million shares



worth C$2.58 billion. Market momentum was negative with



decliners beating advancers 584 to 318 with another 262 issues



flat.



    "I would say the market has again had such a volatile week



that people have had enough and they want to go home. It is



just that techs are driving everybody down psychologically," a



Toronto trader told Reuters.



    The blue-chip S&P/TSE 60 index	    was down nearly 2



percent at 527.61 points.



    Investors dumped tech stocks quickly following the earnings



forecast from Microsoft and sent the industrial products



sector, which houses tech stocks, down 4.2 percent by midday.



    After the markets closed on Thursday, Microsoft	



said that the global slowdown, lower personal computer sales



and less corporate spending would make it miss its quarterly



earnings and revenue forecasts by 5 percent to 6 percent.



    Overall, 13 of the TSE 300's 14 subindexes were lower, led



by the decline in the industrial products sector.



    In that group, heavyweight Nortel Networks Corp.	



was down C$2.70 at C$56.20, JDS Uniphase fell C$6 to



C$88.25, Research In Motion lost C$4.50 at C$121.25,



Celestica Inc. dropped C$5.65 to C$81.95, and BCE



Emergis slipped C$5.40 to C$53.35.



The financial services subindex was down 0.7 percent. The



consumer products subindex was down nearly 2 percent. The gold



sector was up nearly 2.4 percent.



($1=$1.52 Canadian).


Document lba0000020010821dwcf0a1kc
?
 

 Toronto stocks weighed down by techs at open. 

324 words
15 December 2000
15:28
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

     TORONTO, Dec 15 (Reuters) - Toronto's benchmark stock index 

 opened 126 points lower on Friday as technology stocks sank in 

 the wake of a profit warning from software giant Microsoft 

 Corp. 


    The Toronto Stock Exchange 300 composite index	



opened 126.39 points, or 1.39 percent, lower at 8942.99 points



on volume of 41.8 million shares worth C$1.39 billion. Market



momentum was negative with decliners beating advancers 338 to



204 with another 194 issues opening flat.



    The blue-chip S&P/TSE 60 index	    was down 7.59



points, or 1.41 percent, at 530.35 points.



    Investors dumped tech stocks quickly following the earnings



forecast from Microsoft and sent the industrial products



sector, which houses the tech stocks, down 2.58 percent.



    After the markets closed on Thursday, Microsoft	



said that the global slowdown, lower personal computer sales



and less corporate spending would make it miss its quarterly



earnings and revenue forecasts by 5 percent to 6 percent.



In New York, the Dow Jones industrial average was



off 144.09 points, or 1.35 percent, at 10,530.90 points while



the Nasdaq fell 102.45 points, or 3.75 percent, to



2626.06.



    Overall, 13 of the TSE 300's 14 subindexes were lower, led



by the decline in the industrial products sector.



    In that group, heavyweight Nortel Networks Corp.	



was down C$1.70 at C$57.20, JDS Uniphase fell C$6.20



to C$88.0, Research in Motion lost C$5.75 at C$120.00,



Celestica Inc . dropped C$4.60 to C$83.00, BCE Emergis



 slipped C$4.25 to C$54.50.



The financial services, consumer products, oil and gas and



paper and forestry products were all down more than 1 percent



in early trading.



    The gold sector, alone in positive territory, was up 0.04



percent.



    ($1=$1.52 Canadian).


Document lba0000020010821dwcf0a1gg
?
 

 US T-bonds  cut  losses, jump higher as stocks slump. 

 By Ross Finley 
549 words
15 December 2000
16:14
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 15 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasuries cut earlier losses on Friday to trade higher as an equity sell-off linked to a late Thursday profit warning from software giant Microsoft eclipsed a government report showing core inflation picked up modestly in November. 

 "It looked like we were going to get a (Treasury) sell-off this morning," said Mark Mahoney, Treasury market strategist at UBS Warburg. 

 "But then stocks opened and went straight down." 

 Traders said the drop in share prices helped lift Treasuries, which had suffered mild profit-taking after earlier news core consumer prices rose more than expected in November. 

 By mid-morning, the technology-weighted Nasdaq composite index shed more than 100 points or 3.7 percent of its value, while the Dow Jones industrial average plummeted 190 points or 1.8 percent. 

 Microsoft, following the lead of many other companies heavily linked to the personal computer and technology sectors, issued its first profit warning in more than a decade after Thursday's closing bell, underscoring the extent to which the U.S. economy has slowed. 

 Treasuries often trade inversely to stock prices as investors temporarily park funds in low-risk government securities. Bond dealers also bid up Treasury prices in anticipation of such trades. 

 Earlier, the Labor Department said its November consumer price index, the government's broadest measure of inflation, rose by a moderate 0.2 percent, as expected, and matching October's 0.2 percent rise. 

 Core prices, which strip out more volatile food and energy components and tend to be watched more closely by the markets, rose by 0.3 percent, more than the 0.2 percent expected and the 0.2 percent pace in October. 

 But the market overwhelmingly expects the Federal Reserve will next week scrap its official view that inflation poses the greatest risk to the economy and instead warn that a rapid slowdown in growth poses equal danger, paving the way for a possible cut in rates. 

 Market strategists said the reaction to the inflation data was mild, dampening some of the recent euphoria, but did not dislodge the bond market's rosy outlook for lower rates. 

 "While people are going to look at the inflation numbers, they are not the focus of the market near-term," said Tony Richards, head of U.S. fixed-income strategy at Brinson Partners in Chicago, which manages $50 billion in fixed-income assets. "What matters now is that the consensus is changing on the forward view of the economy, and that is what's driving the bond market." 

 At 10:45 a.m. (1545 GMT), 10-year Treasury notes rose 1/32 from Thursday's 5 p.m. close to 104-1/32. Their yield, which moves inversely to the price, held at 5.21 percent. Thirty-year bonds rose 10/32 to 112-3/32, yielding 5.42 percent. 

 Two-year notes rose 2/32 to 100-12/32, yielding 5.42 percent and five-year notes rose 3/32 to 102-17/32 to yield 5.15 percent. 

 Treasury yields, which move inversely to prices, fell to near two-year lows on Thursday following news that inflation at the producer level was tame in November. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcf0a16d
?
 

 U.S. Treasuries drift lower after core CPI jump. 

 By Ross Finley 
523 words
15 December 2000
14:21
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 15 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasuries drifted lower on Friday after the government reported core consumer price inflation rose slightly more than expected in November, triggering some profit-taking after a long run-up in prices. 

 The Labor Department's November consumer price index, the government's broadest measure of inflation, showed prices rose by a moderate 0.2 percent, as expected, and matching October's 0.2 percent rise. 

 But core prices, which strip out more volatile food and energy components and tend to be watched more closely by the markets, rose by 0.3 percent, more than the 0.2 percent expected and the 0.2 percent pace in October. 

 Still, the market overwhelmingly expects the Fed will next week scrap its official view that inflation poses the greatest risk to the economy and instead warn that a rapid slowdown in growth poses equal danger, paving the way for a possible cut in rates. 

 Market strategists said the reaction to the inflation data was mild, dampening some of the recent euphoria, but did not dislodge the bond market's rosy outlook for lower rates. 

 "While people are going to look at the inflation numbers, they are not the focus of the market near-term. The markets ran up a lot, so they are susceptible to some sell-offs," said Tony Richards, head of U.S. fixed-income strategy at Brinson Partners in Chicago, which manages $50 billion in fixed-income assets. 

 "What matters now is that the consensus is changing on the forward view of the economy, and that is what's driving the bond market," Richards said. 

 Treasury yields, which move inversely to prices, fell to near two-year lows on Thursday following news that inflation at the producer level was tame in November. 

 At 9 a.m. (1400 GMT), 10-year Treasury notes fell 6/32 from Thursday's 5 p.m. close to 103-26/32. Their yield rose to 5.24 percent. Thirty-year bonds fell 6/32 to 111-18/32, yielding 5.46 percent. 

 Two-year notes were unchanged at 100-10/32, yielding 5.44 percent and five-year notes were 3/32 lower at 102-12/32 to yield 5.20 percent. 

 Traders said they were also eyeing U.S. equities following a late Thursday profit warning from software giant Microsoft. 

 Microsoft, following the lead of many other companies heavily linked to the personal computer and technology sectors, issued after trading hours on Thursday its first profit warning in more than a decade. 

 Treasuries have traded inversely to stocks recently as investors temporarily park their money in low-risk government securities. Dealers also bid up Treasury prices in anticipation of such trades. 

 Nasdaq 100 futures pared earlier losses to trade 20 points lower at 2,649 while Standard & Poor's 500 index futures also cut losses to trade down 1.9 points 1,356.90. 

 The market shrugged off news U.S. industrial production shrank 0.2 percent in November following a 0.1 percent decline in October. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcf0a12g
?
 

 FOREX-Euro bursts above 101 yen, knocks down dollar. 

 By Carolyn Cohn 
574 words
15 December 2000
13:11
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, Dec 15 (Reuters) - The euro was the currency of choice on Friday as escalating concern about Japan's economy pushed it to four-month highs above 101 yen and gloom about U.S. stocks and growth propelled it to a three-month peak of $0.90. 

 Even a weak reading in Germany's key Ifo survey of business sentiment could not hold back the euro, which reached its strongest level against the dollar since September 22, the day the Group of Seven industrialised nations intervened in its support. 

 The euro ploughed through the key 100 barrier against the Japanese currency and went on to gain more than another yen, accumulating gains of three percent in the past two days alone. 

 "We are seeing a turning point - the mood has changed," said Nigel Richardson, senior investment strategist at Axa Investment Managers. 

 "We are seeing a reversal of the outperformance of the U.S., and there is also weakness coming into the yen now." 

 The euro eased from its earlier peaks to $0.8962/78 by 1240 GMT. It rose as far as 101.34 yen according to Reuters data, before settling just below 101. 

 The euro remained strong even after the west German Ifo index fell for the sixth consecutive month in November to 97.0, its lowest since October, 1999. 

 "The Ifo was marginally disappointing but not that much out of line with expectations," said Jeremy Stretch, currency strategist at RBC Dominion Securities in London. 

 "It will not cut the legs off the euro's rally." 

 YEN LOSES FOOTING 

 The yen was the only major currency to lose its footing against the generally weaker dollar, approaching 16-month lows of 112.84 set a day ago. 

 The yen's latest losses came after Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said the tempo of Japan's recovery appeared to be slowing and as concern about Japan's regional banks was stoked by reports that Japanese financial authorities have started talks on closing Kansai Kogin, Japan's largest credit union. 

 "The sense of decay in the Japanese economy is really coming home to the markets," said Steve Barrow, currency strategist at Bear Stearns in London. 

 "Continued worries over weaker growth in the U.S. mean growth perceptions have swung in favour of the euro." 

 Nasdaq futures were pointing to a lower open in the United States after Microsoft Corp, the world's top software company, issued a profit warning after hours on Thursday. 

 The Nasdaq index closed down 3.3 percent on Thursday and S&P futures also pointed to a lower open for the Dow Jones Industrial average, following profit warnings on Thursday from JP Morgan and its merger partner Chase Manhattan. 

 With the spotlight on woes in Japan and the United States, dealers chose to ignore a warning by Ifo economist Willi Leibfritz that Germany's business climate was likely to continue its downtrend and that rate hikes were not needed in the region. 

 "We are probably heading for a short, hard landing in the U.S. and the euro has to benefit," said Elizabeth Legge, senior economist at Bankgesellschaft Berlin in London. 

 Chartists and traders said the euro would find levels around $0.9020, the peaks set on September 22, hard to beat in the short term but predicted it was only a matter of time before it surpassed these highs. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcf0a0s9
?
 

 U.S. Treasuries inch higher, await inflation report. 

 By Ross Finley 
491 words
15 December 2000
13:10
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 15 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasuries crept higher early on Friday as bond investors awaited a report expected to show tame inflation in November and as traders eyed stock futures following a late Thursday profit warning from software giant Microsoft. 

 Based on mounting evidence of a rapidly-slowing economy, the bond market has bet on the likelihood the Federal Reserve will cut interest rates early next year, sending Treasury yields, which move opposite to prices, tumbling. 

 Bond investors also expect the Fed will next week scrap its official view that inflation poses the greatest risk to the economy and instead warn that a rapid slowdown in growth poses equal danger, paving the way for a possible cut in rates. 

 Analysts said the Labor Department's November consumer price index, the government's broadest measure of inflation which is due at 8:30 a.m. (1330 GMT), will likely bolster market belief that inflation remains under control. 

 Economists polled by Reuters expected the CPI rose by 0.2 percent in November, matching October's increase. Core CPI, which strips out more volatile food and energy prices, is expected to have risen by a modest 0.2 percent, the same as October's pace. 

 "The two issues for today's trading session are the core rate of inflation that we see in the CPI and the performance in the equity arena," said Bill Sullivan, director of money market research at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. "As we all know, things look grim there with Microsoft's warning." 

 Microsoft, following the lead of many other companies heavily linked to the personal computer and technology sectors, issued after trading hours on Thursday its first profit warning in more than a decade. 

 The company said lower personal computer sales and a pullback in corporate spending would make the firm miss its quarterly earnings and revenue forecasts by 5 percent to 6 percent. 

 In early trades, Nasdaq 100 futures were 65 points lower at 2,605 while Standard & Poor's 500 index futures were off 6.2 points at 1,351. 

 Treasuries have traded inversely to stocks recently as investors temporarily park their money in low-risk government securities. Dealers also bid up Treasury prices in anticipation of such trades. 

 At 7:45 a.m. (1245 GMT), 10-year Treasury notes rose 2/32 from Thursday's 5 p.m. close to 104-2/32. Their yield fell to 5.21 percent. Thirty-year bonds rose 3/32 to 111-28/32, yielding 5.44 percent. 

 Two-year notes gained 2/32 to 100-12/32, yielding 5.41 percent and five-year notes gained 1/32 to 102-15/32 to yield 5.17 percent. 

 Later in the session, the market will get a glimpse at the latest industrial production figures, but market participants do not expect the data to move prices much. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcf0a0ru
?
 

 FOREX-Euro flies above 101 yen, beats down dollar. 

 By Carolyn Cohn 
526 words
15 December 2000
12:06
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, Dec 15 (Reuters) - The euro was the currency of choice on Friday as escalating concern about Japan's economy lifted it to four-month highs above 101 yen and gloom about U.S. stocks and growth propelled it to a three-month peak of $0.90. 

 Even a weak reading in Germany's key Ifo survey of business sentiment could not hold back the euro, which reached its strongest against the dollar since September 22, the day the Group of Seven industrialised nations intervened in its support. 

 The euro ploughed through the key 100 barrier against the Japanese currency and went on to gain another yen, accumulating gains of three percent in the past two days alone. 

 "We are seeing a turning point - the mood has changed," said Nigel Richardson, senior investment strategist at Axa Investment Managers. 

 "We are seeing a reversal of the outperformance of the U.S., and there is also weakness coming into the yen now." 

 The euro carried on rising even after the west German Ifo index fell for the sixth consecutive month in November to 97.0, its lowest since October, 1999. 

 "The Ifo was marginally disappointing but not that much out of line with expectations," said Jeremy Stretch, currency strategist at RBC Dominion Securities in London. 

 "It will not cut the legs off the euro's rally." 

 The euro was at $0.8966/71 at 1100 GMT. It rose as far as 101.34 yen according to Reuters data before settling at around 101. 

 The yen was the only major currency to lose its footing against the generally weaker dollar, approaching 16-month lows of 112.84 set a day ago. 

 FOCUS ON JAPANESE ECONOMY, U.S. STOCKS 

 The yen's latest losses came after Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said the tempo of Japan's recovery appeared to be slowing and as concern about Japan's regional banks was stoked by reports that Japanese financial authorities have started talks on closing Kansai Kogin, Japan's largest credit union. 

 "The sense of decay in the Japanese economy is really coming home to the markets," said Steve Barrow, currency strategist at Bear Stearns in London. 

 "Continued worries over weaker growth in the U.S. mean growth perceptions have swung in favour of the euro." 

 Nasdaq futures were pointing to a lower open in the U.S. after Microsoft Corp, the world's top software company, issued a profit warning after hours on Thursday. 

 The Nasdaq index closed down 3.3 percent on Thursday and S&P futures also pointed to a lower open for the Dow Jones Industrial average, following profit warnings on Thursday from JP Morgan and its merger partner Chase Manhattan. 

 But technical analysts and traders said that despite stock market worries in the United States, the euro would find levels around $0.9020, the peaks set on September 22, hard to beat in the short term. 

 "Technically speaking, $0.9020/25 is the next big level and I don't think that is going to break," said a trader from a European bank in London. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcf0a0ck
?
 

 Polaroid cuts Q4 earnings view, sees break even. 

182 words
15 December 2000
12:01
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Dec 15 (Reuters) - Instant film and camera maker Polaroid Corp said on Friday its fourth quarter operating profit would fall far below expectations, citing a slowing economic environment. 

 The Cambridge, Mass.-based company did not disclose per-share figures in its profit warning but said it now sees fourth quarter earnings in break-even range. 

 That's far below analysts' current expectations calling for Polaroid to earn 52 cents per share in the fourth quarter, according to data compiled by market research firm First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 "Unfavourable manufacturing variances and lower shipments" could reduce fourth quarter revenues by $60-to-$70 million and cut operating profit by $40-to-$45 million, the company said. 

 Polaroid, which also said it was adopting a more conservative outlook for 2001, said it is taking steps to increase cash flow and reduce spending. "It appears that slowing economic growth and more conservative stocking policies are negatively impacting shipments of our traditional film lines," Gary DiCamillo, Polaroid's chairman and chief executive, said in a statement. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcf0a0b1
?
 

 U.S. stocks uneasy in Europe on Microsoft warning. 

454 words
15 December 2000
11:43
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, Dec 15 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks looked set for a shaky opening on Friday, as the market reacts to a profit warning from software giant Microsoft Corp. and with 'double witching' expiry of futures and options set to increase volatility, dealers in Europe said. 

 Microsoft was trading at $54-5/8 on Instinet, down sharply from its $55-1/2 close but little different from its level of $52-3/8 seen in after-hours trading in New York. 

 March futures on leading indices turned lower, with the S&P 500 down 4.0 points at 1,354.0 and the Nasdaq Composite off 45.0 at 2,624.5. 

 Microsoft joined the growing list of technology leaders to warn on profits, cautioning that fourth quarter earnings would fall short of expectations by between five and six percent. 

 Dealers said the news would have an inevitable impact, though some of the sting may be drawn since previous warnings have already alerted investors to tough trading in the industry. 

 "Everyone was probably expecting this, it was only a matter of time before software companies started getting hit," said one. 

 Other tech losers included Internet equipment maker Cisco Systems Inc. , which traded at $49 on Instinet, down from a $50-15/16 close. Chip maker Intel Corp. was offered at $34-7/8, having closed at $35-1/8. 

 Meantime, the looming futures and options expiry was expected to lead to increased volatility and made Wall Street's likely performance difficult to call. 

 Expiries see investors and traders taking profits and losses on their derivatives positions or alternatively rolling those positions forward to the next expiry in three months' time. 

 "The double witching could throw a lot of extra volatility into the market," the dealer said. 

 Another potentially destabilising factor was the release before the market open of inflation figures for November. 

 U.S. consumer prices due at 1330 GMT were expected to show a 0.2 percent rise on the month and a 0.2 percent increase in the underlying figure, excluding volatile food and energy costs. Both figures were unchanged on the prior month. 

 Other figures due early in the session included industrial production for November, expected to show capacity utilisation of 82.1 percent - also unchanged on the month before. 

 Next week's looming Federal Reserve monetary policy meeting has thrown a fresh spotlight onto the pace of growth in the economy, though most expect no interest rate cut until the New Year at the earliest. 

 On Thursday the Dow Jones average dropped 119.45 points or 1.1 percent, while the Nasdaq Composite lost 94.26 points or 3.3 percent. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcf0a08c
?
 

 FOREX-Euro flies above 101 yen, beats down dollar. 

 By Carolyn Cohn 
526 words
15 December 2000
11:20
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, Dec 15 (Reuters) - The euro was the currency of choice on Friday as escalating concern about Japan's economy lifted it to four-month highs above 101 yen and gloom about U.S. stocks and growth propelled it to a three-month peak of $0.90. 

 Even a weak reading in Germany's key Ifo survey of business sentiment could not hold back the euro, which reached its strongest against the dollar since September 22, the day the Group of Seven industrialised nations intervened in its support. 

 The euro ploughed through the key 100 barrier against the Japanese currency and went on to gain another yen, accumulating gains of three percent in the past two days alone. 

 "We are seeing a turning point - the mood has changed," said Nigel Richardson, senior investment strategist at Axa Investment Managers. 

 "We are seeing a reversal of the outperformance of the U.S., and there is also weakness coming into the yen now." 

 The euro carried on rising even after the west German Ifo index fell for the sixth consecutive month in November to 97.0, its lowest since October, 1999. 

 "The Ifo was marginally disappointing but not that much out of line with expectations," said Jeremy Stretch, currency strategist at RBC Dominion Securities in London. 

 "It will not cut the legs off the euro's rally." 

 The euro was at $0.8966/71 at 1100 GMT. It rose as far as 101.34 yen according to Reuters data before settling at around 101. 

 The yen was the only major currency to lose its footing against the generally weaker dollar, approaching 16-month lows of 112.84 set a day ago. 

 FOCUS ON JAPANESE ECONOMY, U.S. STOCKS 

 The yen's latest losses came after Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa said the tempo of Japan's recovery appeared to be slowing and as concern about Japan's regional banks was stoked by reports that Japanese financial authorities have started talks on closing Kansai Kogin, Japan's largest credit union. 

 "The sense of decay in the Japanese economy is really coming home to the markets," said Steve Barrow, currency strategist at Bear Stearns in London. 

 "Continued worries over weaker growth in the U.S. mean growth perceptions have swung in favour of the euro." 

 Nasdaq futures were pointing to a lower open in the U.S. after Microsoft Corp, the world's top software company, issued a profit warning after hours on Thursday. 

 The Nasdaq index closed down 3.3 percent on Thursday and S&P futures also pointed to a lower open for the Dow Jones Industrial average, following profit warnings on Thursday from JP Morgan and its merger partner Chase Manhattan. 

 But technical analysts and traders said that despite stock market worries in the United States, the euro would find levels around $0.9020, the peaks set on September 22, hard to beat in the short term. 

 "Technically speaking, $0.9020/25 is the next big level and I don't think that is going to break," said a trader from a European bank in London. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcf0a03n
?
 

 UPDATE 2-Clorox to streamline manufacturing. 

 By Brad Dorfman 
592 words
15 December 2000
21:25
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 (Adds closing stock price, analysts comments, paragraphs 7, 14-16) 

 CHICAGO, Dec 15 (Reuters) - Clorox Co. , the maker of Clorox bleach and Glad garbage bags, said Friday it would streamline manufacturing in an effort to cope with strains from a major acquisition and slowing markets that have trashed its stock price. 

 The restructuring will account for about two-thirds of the $150 million to $200 million in charges and special items that Clorox plans to post in 2001, it said. 

 The company announced the charges Thursday, as it warned of disappointing second-quarter and fiscal 2000 earnings due to slowing demand and other issues during the economic downturn. 

 During a conference call with analysts, Clorox executives also said the focus on integrating its $2 billion acquisition of First Brands took the company's attention away from properly launching new products and otherwise running its business. 

 The company had previously said that the Glad business, acquired from First Brands, was hurt when it cut promotional spending too quickly in order to increase profits. 

 "We've had some missteps in execution," Craig Sullivan, chairman and chief executive, said during a conference call with analysts and investors. 

 NOT SO GLAD 

 Clorox shares, which fell Thursday in anticipation of the profit warning, dropped further Friday to a new 2-1/2 year low of $28-3/8, almost half its 52-week high of $56-6/16. The stock closed down $3-15/16, or 11.58 percent, at $30-1/16 on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 "Clearly there're some issues they need to address," John Hughes, branded consumer products analyst at Dain Rauscher Wessels, said. "The execution issue is the one they need to respond to immediately." 

 The Oakland, Calif.-based company does not have plans to cut its work force, but will shift employees to more important product lines, a spokesman said. 

 Clorox said several new items, including a dry cleaning product and the premium Black Flag insect spray, have not performed as well as hoped. The company said it would write down inventory related to those products. 

 While focusing on First Brands, the company did not pay as much attention to new product reviews as it had in the past, Sullivan said. 

 PEOPLE BUYING LESS CLEANER 

 Makers of consumer products are generally less susceptible to an economic downturn because people continue to buy basic products like laundry soap, but recent demand has been sluggish enough to affect profits at Clorox. 

 "What happens is people reduce their pantry inventories. They don't buy as often, they (scale) back a little bit on their usage at home," Sullivan said. 

 However, other consumer products companies have not issued warnings. In fact, earlier this week, Colgate-Palmolive Co. reconfirmed analysts' estimates for the current quarter and Procter & Gamble Co. said it continued to be comfortable with its earnings guidance. 

 "We note how unusual such a drop in sales is, particularly given how categories such as cleaning products and laundry additives are generally considered rather defensive in nature and relatively immune to economic cycles," Rommel Dionosio, analyst at Friedman, Billings, Ramsey, said. 

 Dionosio downgraded Clorox's stock to accumulate from buy, in one of several negative analysts reports on the company Friday. 

 Clorox will also review its portfolio of businesses as it tries to improve operations. Clorox said it has not been able to address this issue properly for the past two years because of accounting issues related to the January 1999 acquisition of First Brands. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcf09obs
?
 

 Bearish Sentiment Descends On European Bank Stocks  

 By Anita Greil  
Dow Jones Newswires
620 words
15 December 2000
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
13
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)  

 ZURICH -- Events on both sides of the Atlantic conspired to knock European bank stocks off their feet, dashing hopes that the sector could pull leading indexes to strong year-end finishes.  

 The first blow came from London, where investment bank Goldman Sachs downgraded five leading European banks. Further bad news erupted before the markets opened in New York, when merger partners Chase Manhattan Corp. and J.P. Morgan & Co. issued a fourth-quarter profit warning.  

 Coming on the heels of a Wednesday's warning from the Bank of England on the concentration of lending to the troubled telecommunications sector, the market's reaction was swift: shares of Credit Suisse Group slid 5.7%, ABN Amro Holding NV dropped 5.4%, Deutsche Bank tumbled 5% and Societe Generale fell 4.8%. The Dow Jones Stoxx banking sector index slipped 2.6%.  

 "This really puts a damper on sentiment -- financials were supposed to be a sector that would lead our year-end index rise," said a trader at a major German bank. "So much for that."  

 Even worse, some felt that the sector's deterioration could linger for months, given mounting apprehension over the U.S. economic performance and banks' loan exposure there.  

 "There are real concerns over credit levels, especially with the amount of lending to the telcos in this New Economy era," said Mark Durling, an analyst at London-based brokerage Brewin Dolphin. "There is great pressure on the banks to chase new business, but margins are being squeezed --  which is causing these concerns."  

 Those concerns have recently prompted Merrill Lynch to suggest a cautious stance on the weighting of bank stocks in portfolios until evidence emerges that global interest rates are headed lower.  

 However, the reasons behind the profit warning from Chase and J.P. Morgan were unique to the U.S. or to the banks themselves, which recently announced merger plans.  

 But the warning "at least raises the issue again how investment-banking earnings for the fourth quarter may turn out," John Leonard, analyst at Salomon Smith Barney said.  

 Low volatility in currency markets, wider credit spreads and a decline in customer volume are at the core of the expected drop in trading revenue, the banks said.  

 The foreign-exchange and fixed-income markets "were probably fairly tough for a lot of people," Salomon's Mr. Leonard acknowledged.  

 Still, he remains optimistic on Deutsche Bank and UBS AG. Both are strong players in equity markets, an area where Chase is weak. Over the fourth quarter, equity markets were "probably even stronger than in the third," which is likely to offset weak revenues in fixed income, he said.  

 Goldman Sachs provided a prelude to Thursday's profit warning by downgrading its rating on several European banks earlier in the day. Goldman said banks' fourth-quarter forecasts are out of whack with weak trends in the capital markets and cited possible higher U.S. loan-loss provisions next year.  

 The investment bank lowered its ratings on ABN Amro, BNP Paribas, Credit Lyonnais SA, Deutsche Bank and Societe Generale. It noted the price gap between these institutions and their U.S. counterparts.  

 Thursday's events were preceded Wednesday by the Bank of England's warning that risks to U.K. and world financial stability have increased in the past six months. In addition to stock market volatility, England's central bank cited the steady buildup of debt in the telecommunications sector as the main causes for concern.  

 Indeed, banks in countries where third-generation mobile phone licenses went for a high price are likely to face a bumpy ride as concerns about exposure to telecom companies rise.  

Document wsje000020010814dwcf00jn2
?
 

Abreast of the Market
 Bank, Brokerage Stocks  Decline ; J.P. Morgan, Chase, Citigroup Fall   

 By Robert O'Brien   
Dow Jones Newswires
690 words
15 December 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
C2
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

 NEW YORK -- Wall Street learned that profit warnings aren't just the stuff of telecommunications-gear makers, though the impact on stock prices turned out the same.   

 Banking and brokerage stocks tumbled, dragging market averages along, after J.P. Morgan warned that fourth-quarter earnings would fall significantly below Wall Street's projections, because of weakness in its capital-markets activities and losses in its investments.   

 The banking company's prospective merger partner, Chase Manhattan, compounded the misery in the sector by warning of a comparable shortfall in profits itself. J.P. Morgan fell $6.31 to $157.94, while Chase declined 1.63 to 42.88.   

 Other names in the banking sector, such as Citigroup, which fell 2.25 to 50.75, followed them lower, while brokerage firms, such as Goldman Sachs, off 6.63 to 87.44, Merrill Lynch, down 3.19 to 63.88, and Bear Stearns, down 2.31 to 46.75, all followed suit.   

 Then, after the market closed, Microsoft issued its own profitwarning, saying revenue for the second quarter is now expected to be in the range of $6.4 to $6.5 billion and diluted earnings per share are expected to be 46 cents or 47 cents, a reduction of 5% to 6% from the company's prior guidance.   

 For a market that has been hoping to see some reason for optimism after the epic national events of the week, as well as the persistent declines of stocks recently, the results of yesterday's trading couldn't have been heartening.   

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average, floored by the declines in J.P. Morgan, fell 119.45, or 1.11%, to finish at 10674.99, while the Nasdaq Composite Index dropped 94.26, or 3.34%, to 2728.51.   

 "This market's losses really have been all about the economy," Alan Skrainka, market strategist at Edward Jones, said Thursday. "I don't think the economy has slipped into recession, but sometimes it can seem like one, when you see how far and how fast these earnings estimates have been coming down."   

 Once again, the Nasdaq Composite Index fell further than the Dow industrial average, and, as has been the case lately, it happened because profit expectations made investors cringe.   

 Adobe Systems fell 8.88 to 57.31 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, after Morgan Stanley Dean Witter cut its rating on the software developer, warning that the slowdown in the economy could crimp the company's growth. The warning came ahead of Adobe's fiscal fourth-quarter earnings, due to be released after the close of trading.   

 Analysts weren't as skittish about Oracle. Lehman Brothers said it expected the database and electronic-business software developer would report what it described as a solid fiscal second quarter. And, in fact, after the close of trading, Oracle posted profits of 11 cents per share for the quarter, which, as Lehman forecast, were a penny a share above consensus estimates. Ahead of those results, Oracle finished a little lighter on the day, down 88 cents to 27.50 in Nasdaq trading.   

 There were some forecasts of technology profits that seemed to be upbeat, though Wall Street wasn't taking all of them at face value. Optics maker Corning said that it expects its fourth-quarter earnings will come in at the high end of the range of analysts' estimates, which stretch from 26 cents to 28 cents a share for the period. The stock made some progress intraday, but couldn't hold up, closing down 2.44 at 70.   

 Communications equipment maker Nortel Networks did manage to finish the session in the black, rising 2.31 to 38.75, after the company refuted rumors that it would miss its fourth-quarter earnings and revenue targets, saying it had confidence in its ability to live up to targets for the quarter, the year, and next year as well. It marked the fifth time since July that the Canadian networking-equipment maker repeated its financial guidance.   

Document j000000020010807dwcf00wzg
?
 

 Asian shares fall on Wall Street, US economic concerns 

799 words
15 December 2000
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 TOKYO, Dec 15 (AFP) - Asian share markets ended the week with a whimper on Friday, weighed down by a disappointing Wall Street performance and concerns about the slowdown of the US economy. 

 Asian investors expected another poor showing by US stocks on Friday, following the profit warning by Microsoft after US markets closed the previous day. 

 Analysts also cited concerns stemming from profit warnings by Chase Manhattan and JP Morgan and caution ahead of the meeting of the US interest rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee on Tuesday. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average gave up 1.1 percent Thursday, while the technology-heavy Nasdaq index fell 3.3 percent. 

 The Bangkok market was one of only two in the region to show a gain, as investors reacted with relief to the court approval of a restructuring plan for Thai Petrochemical Industry Plc, the country's most indebted company. 

 Share prices in Tokyo slumped 2.5 percent, weighed down by falls on Wall Street and the reported collapse of two Korean credit cooperatives in Japan. 

 The Tokyo Stock Exchange's Nikkei-225 index fell 374.90 points to close at 14,552.29. 

 "In the afternoon, the news that the two biggest credit cooperatives financing Koreans in Japan had gone bankrupt perturbed investors," Sakura Friend Securities broker Toshihiko Matsuno said. 

 Kansai Kogin in Osaka, western Japan, and Tokyo-based Tokyo Shogin Credit Union will be placed under state control, Jiji Press news agency said. 

 "The Tokyo market remains top-heavy amid a dearth of incentives," said Hiroichi Nishi, senior market analyst at Nikko Securities. 

 "Following the falls in the Dow and the Nasdaq, foreign investors sold Japanese shares especially in the electronics, communications and Internet sectors," he said. 

 "Investors are cautious about the economic outlook both in Japan and in the United States," said Katsuhiko Kodama, head of equities at Toyo Securities. 

 "In the United States, companies are revising down their corporate earnings projections. The number doing so is beyond the expectations of many market participants," he said. 

 HONG KONG: Share prices closed 3.4 percent lower led by finance stocks on concerns about a US economic slowdown after leading banks there issued earnings warnings. 

 The Hang Seng index lost 521.46 points to close at 14,975.53, on turnover of 10.18 billion Hong Kong dollars (1.3 billion US). 

 "I think the losses are overdone because I haven't seen any significant changes in Hong Kong's fundamentals," said Dennis Lau, senior manager of Manulife Fund Direct. 

 "Investors are trying to find excuses to sell down the stocks since the index had been rising over the past few days," he added. 

 He said he expected the selling pressure to be short-lived, noting that support was likely at 14,500 points, with resistance at 15,500 points. 

 SYDNEY: Australian share prices dropped 1.4 percent with investors spooked by earnings downgrades overnight by two major US banks and the implications for the broader economy. 

 The All Ordinaries index fell 45.0 points to 3,178.1 while the SP/ ASX 200 index dived 47.8 points to 3,229.2. 

 Johnson Taylor Potter director Rick Klusman said overseas futures markets indicated Wall Street was set for another fall later Friday on further earnings downgrades. 

 "People expect the US to fall further so therefore they are being cautious today," he said. "Just generally there wasn't any really good news that people could latch onto." 

 SINGAPORE: Shares succumbed to profit-taking to close down 1.6 percent ahead of a Federal Reserve Board meeting next week to set US interest rates. 

 The Straits Times Index fell 32.36 points to close at 1,948.18, and the All-Singapore Equities Index slipped 9.62 points to 506.68. 

 The US Federal Reserve Board is likely to maintain key interest rates at current levels after a slew of data pointed to a slowdown in the US economy, dealers said. However, there is speculation the Fed may change its bias from one of tightening to neutral. 

 Investors are widely expected to stay on the sidelines until the conclusion of next Tuesday's meeting, they said. 

 KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysian shares closed 1.7 percent lower with sentiment weakened by political and economic concerns. 

 The Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange composite index ended down 12.06 points at 700.44. 

 An institutional dealer with a local brokerage said foreign funds were selling on the poor outlook for the market, with concerns over the lack of good corporate governance partly contributing to negative sentiment. 

 "I think the foreign funds are just wanting to let go of whatever little they have. They don't see a clear (upward) direction for the market," she said. 

 burs/bro 

Document afpr000020010803dwcf05aql
?
 

 Share prices plunge / Microsoft hits world markets. 

 By IAN SKINNER. 
512 words
15 December 2000
Daily Telegraph
DAITEL
101
English
(c) 2000 Nationwide News Proprietary Ltd

 THE Australian share market nosedived today after Microsoft joined the dozens of companies warning of lower sales and profit as the economy slows. 

 Investors braced for further falls in global markets after the warning. 

 The world's largest software maker downgraded its outlook as New York markets closed. 

 When the Australian market opened, after-hours trading in the US suggested America's Nasdaq index is likely to slump a further 50 points. 

 It had already fallen 94 points today and 109 points in the previous session. 

 In Australia, every stock in the Top 20 list dropped. The All Ordinaries index fell 42.4 points to 3180.7 in an hour. 

 News Corp fell a further 53c to $15.07 after an opening drop to $14.90, while its preferred stock was down 41c at $13.36. 

 Continuing the slide in banking stocks, ANZ fell 24c to $14.13 as it told today's annual meeting in Melbourne that margins are under pressure although bad debts remain moderate. 

 St George, holding its annual meeting in Sydney, fell 11c to $13.15 as it said it is on track for improved results. 

 National Aust fell 32c to $28.25, Commonwealth 32c to $29.94 and Westpac plunged 22c to $12.84. 

 Worsening the mood for financial stocks, Chase Manhattan and J.P. Morgan - two New York banks in the process of merging - had issued their own profit warnings earlier today. 

 Top retailer Coles Myer fell 10c to $6.98 while Woolworths lost 15c to $7.67. 

 Telstra fell 8c to $6.61 while C&W Optus lost 4c to $3.75. 

 Insurance group HIH, preparing for a fiery annual meeting this afternoon, lost 1.5c to 26.5c while NRMA Insurance slipped 5c to $2.94. 

 In the resources, BHP fell 15c to $18.98, WMC 5c to $7.55 and Rio Tinto 60c to $27.90. 

 Pasminco slipped a further 2c to 69c as it warned its first-half results would fall short of targets. The base metal producer's shares have now fallen from a year's high of $1.84. 

 In New York, Microsoft said slower global economic growth is hurting computer and technology spending. 

 Revenue for its second quarter to December 31 would be $US6.4 billion to $US6.5 billion, below the $US6.8 billion most analysts expected. Earnings per share would be US46c to US47c, compared with the US49c expected. 

 Microsoft's warning follows similar news from Compaq, Intel and others. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 119.45, or 1.1 per cent, to 10,674.99, with J.P. Morgan accounting for almost one-third of the decline. 

 "We're seeing another wave of fear rattling through the financial sector," said William Rubin, who manages $US300 million at Keefe Managers. 

 The Nasdaq declined 94.26, or 3.3 per cent, to 2728.51, its third successive loss, while the S&P 500 index fell 19.06, or 1.4 per cent, to 1340.93. 

Document daitel0020010805dwcf00xom
?
 

 Microsoft Skids Into PC Industry's Pileup --- Revenue to Trail Forecasts For Quarter by 5% to 6% As Businesses  Cut  Back 

 By Rebecca Buckman 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
978 words
15 December 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
A3
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Microsoft Corp. became the latest casualty of the recent slump in demand for personal computers, as it warned Wall Street its quarterly revenue and earnings would come in below analysts' forecasts. 

 It was the first profit warning by the Redmond, Wash., software company in more than 10 years, and it indicates the severity of the global economic slowdown that is pinching computer-related companies, analysts said. 

 "At $25 billion [in annual revenue], you do have some sensitivity to global information-technology spending," said David Readerman, an analyst with San Francisco investment bank Thomas Weisel Partners. Still, "this is not a frequent occurrence" for Microsoft. 

 The company, whose products are used in most PCs, said revenue for its fiscal second quarter ending Dec. 31 would fall 5% to 6% below expectations, coming in at $6.4 billion to $6.5 billion. As a result, Microsoft expects to post a profit of 46 cents to 47 cents a share, compared with the consensus estimate of 49 cents, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Some analysts already had lowered their earnings projections for Microsoft in the wake of recent profit warnings from computer makers such as Gateway Inc. and Compaq Computer Corp., as well as bellwether chip maker Intel Corp. 

 But analysts had shaved only a penny or so off their earnings estimates for Microsoft, arguing that just a small percentage of the company's sales come from consumers, the market segment thought to be driving the recent sales slowness. 

 Now, Microsoft says the computer-demand slump is spreading to businesses as well, with some companies cutting back on technology spending. What is more, Microsoft's high-priority MSN Internet service is suffering from a wider slowdown in dot-com advertising, and subscriptions aren't increasing as quickly as anticipated, according to the company. 

 "We believe, like many other technology companies, that the current weakness in world-wide economic conditions is resulting in a slowdown in PC sales, corporate [information technology] spending, and consumer online services and advertising," said Microsoft Chief Financial Officer John Connors. "Accordingly, we are adjusting our revenue and earnings expectations for the current quarter, and for the balance of the fiscal year." 

 He added: "However, while our short-term results will continue to be affected by the current economic environment, our long-term outlook on the information-technology market and the PC industry remains positive." 

 Revenue for Microsoft's current fiscal year, ending in June, likely will be off about 5% from previous expectations, the company said, coming in anywhere from $25.2 billion to $25.4 billion. Microsoft expects per-share earnings of $1.80 to $1.82, compared with the consensus estimate of $1.91, according to First Call. 

 Microsoft made the projection after markets closed. At 4 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, Microsoft shares were down $1.75 at $55.50. In after-hours trading, the shares dropped to $52.06. 

 The anticipated profit shortfall comes at a bad time for Microsoft, which is trying to ramp up new product lines and build new Internet services to compensate for slowing growth in its core Office and Windows franchises. 

 On a conference call with analysts and reporters, the company blamed much of the just-discovered shortfall on lower sales of desktop products, such as Office, that often come preinstalled on new PCs. Many of those computers are sold at the retail level but often are used by small or midsize businesses, Mr. Connors said. 

 Still, he maintained that early sales of Microsoft's Windows 2000 system, which is targeted at big businesses and underpins many of its critical new "server" software products, remain on track. 

 "But keep in mind, Office is still one-third of [Microsoft's] total revenue," said Bill Epifanio, who follows the company for New York financial-services concern J.P. Morgan & Co. "If they have weakness there, they have major problems on their hands." 

 The maturation of Office "has been an issue we've worried about for some time," added Drew Brosseau, an analyst with securities firm S.G. Cowen in Boston. Moves to upgrade to the Office 2000 product "doesn't appear to be materializing here," he said. 

 Microsoft's profit warning also is troublesome because the company rarely misses its forecasts. Often, it can use one-time investment gains to meet analysts' expectations, so the announcement could mean the company has seen "enough of a drop [in sales] that they can't smooth it over," Mr. Epifanio said. 

 More broadly, Microsoft's quarterly stumble might be a sign the company is losing its grip on the desktop-software market faster than some had anticipated. "I think more people are using PCs to do other, non-Microsoft stuff, like surf the Net and run other non-Microsoft applications," Mr. Readerman said. 

 Rick Sherlund, an analyst with New York securities firm Goldman Sachs & Co., points out that Microsoft archrival Oracle Corp. reported a solid profit and growth yesterday. That company, which sells database software that many companies use to run online businesses, is "seeing no slowdown in business from a slower U.S. economy," he said. It simply shows that "PCs are not where the action is right now." 

 --- 

 Don Clark contributed to this article. 

 --- 


  Micro-Softening?
  Microsoft warns of lower second-quarter revenue and earnings as well
as lower-than-expected results of rest of fiscal
  Catalyst
  -- Weakening economies
  -- Slowing PC sales
  -- Lower corporate IT spending
  -- The downturn in consumer online services and advertising
  Earnings Impact
  Quarter ending Dec. 31
  -- Previous Estimate: $0.49 a share
  -- New Estimate: $0.46-$0.47 a share
  -- Year-Ago Actual: $0.44 a share
  Sources: Baseline; the company


Document j000000020010807dwcf00x33
?
 

 UPS, FedEx Expect Earnings Shortfalls 

 By Rick Brooks 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
844 words
15 December 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
A6
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 United Parcel Service Inc. and FedEx Corp., taking a double whammy from lackluster Christmas shopping and a deepening slowdown of shipments by U.S. companies, each warned that their profits will fall short of previous expectations. 

 UPS, based in Atlanta, said it now expects to report net income of 60 cents to 62 cents a diluted share in the fourth quarter, lower than the average estimate of 64 cents from analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. FedEx cut its profit projection for its current fiscal year ending May 31 to a range of $2.50 to $2.60 per share. Analysts had expected FedEx, of Memphis, Tenn., to earn $2.68 a share. 

 The two profit warnings, coming less than a week before the busiest parcel-delivery day of the year, are a sign that the recent deceleration in the nation's growth could be spreading to many sectors of the economy. UPS and FedEx carry about 8% of the country's economic output at any moment, and their sprawling delivery networks swell after Thanksgiving in anticipation of the frantic Christmas rush. 

 So far, though, the current holiday shipping season looks like a flop. UPS said domestic volume was flat in the two weeks ended last Friday compared with last year. The month-long peak delivery season is off to perhaps an even poorer start at FedEx, which now expects air and ground shipments to be "flat to slightly down" in December. FedEx didn't forecast its likely earnings for its fiscal third quarter ending Feb. 28. 

 The announcements rattled investors who had been hoping that both delivery giants could overcome a downturn that began a few months ago in deliveries tied to slowing industries such as manufacturing. FedEx shares suffered their worst one-day decline in almost 15 months, tumbling $4.31, or 9.3%, to $41.97 as of 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. UPS fell $3.94, or 6.3%, to $58.69, its third-worst one-day decline since the company went public in November 1999. 

 UPS said its shipments are slowing in many sectors of the U.S. economy, notably technology, with overall domestic growth rates grinding to a halt this month from increases of 4% in October and November and 5.5% earlier this year. "It seems to be a very broad retrenchment," said Norman Black, a UPS spokesman. 

 FedEx was less specific about the reasons for its December slump, though it said this week's nasty winter weather in the eastern half of the country had interrupted some shipments by businesses. The company also saw an abrupt turn for the worse in the past couple of weeks. Next week, FedEx actually expects to report stronger-than-expected net income of 67 cents a share for its fiscal second quarter ended Nov. 30. Analysts had expected a profit of about 64 cents per share. Last year, FedEx had a fiscal second-quarter profit of $171 million, or 57 cents a share. 

 UPS said it still expects to reach its goal of delivering more than 325 million packages world-wide between Thanksgiving and Christmas, including roughly 19 million parcels on its peak delivery day next Tuesday. FedEx, which has said it forecasts handling about 6.5 million packages next Monday night, plans to update its peak-season projections next week, said William G. Margaritis, a FedEx spokesman. 

 In the meantime, both companies are tightening their belts. UPS now doesn't plan to hire all 95,000 extra part-time package sorters and delivery helpers it thought it would need this holiday season, but it couldn't say what its exact hiring plans are. FedEx said it plans to postpone an unspecified amount of capital spending "until business conditions warrant further expansion." 

 While UPS and FedEx were optimistic that the economy isn't heading for a recession, some analysts worried that continued economic weakness could lead to price cuts as shippers increasingly battle for package volume in a slower-growth environment. "You get killed when pricing becomes more competitive," said Edward M. Wolfe, an analyst with Bear Stearns & Co. 

 UPS said it still is confident of reaching its target of per-share earnings growth at a percentage rate in the "mid-teens" in 2001, partly because its size and diverse businesses give the company flexibility when times are tough. Some analysts weren't so sure, though, and trimmed their profit estimates for next year. 

 Separately, the Chicago Board Options Exchange said it hasn't decided yet whether to review unusually heavy trading of UPS put options, which might indicate someone knew about the company's profit warning in advance. Volume of options to sell UPS shares at $60 by January surged to 8,425 on Wednesday from zero the previous day, a CBOE spokeswoman said. The puts closed Wednesday at $1.13, but then tripled yesterday to $3.38. UPS declined to comment on the options-trading activity. 

Document j000000020010807dwcf00x1y
?
 

 FFBN Tech Wrap: Microsoft  Profit Warning  Sends Stks Down 

734 words
15 December 2000
22:58
Federal Filings Newswires
FF
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


ISSUER: FEDERAL FILINGS
SYMBOL: X.FFI
        WASHINGTON (FFBN)--Yet another lower-than-expected earnings forecast,
this time around from Microsoft Corp., sent technology stocks sharply lower
Friday.  The announcement - combined with several ratings downgrades - sent
the Federal Filings Business News Technology Index down 948.60, or 4.4%, to
20,571.37.



        Microsoft's loss of 6.31, or 11%, helped pulled the FFBN Software
Index down 248.72, or 4.6%, to 5152.37.  After the market close on Thursday,
the software giant warned that its fiscal second-quarter earnings and revenue
would fall as much as 6% short of expectations.  The news signaled that
businesses, like consumers, are reducing their computer technology purchases.
 Robertson Stephens cut its rating on Microsoft to long-term attractive from
buy.
        Elsewhere in the software sector, shares of PeopleSoft Inc. tumbled
3.69, or 8.6%, to 39.19, and Agile Software Corp. shares dropped 4.56, or
7.4%, to 57.06.  Bucking the downward trend, shares of Oracle Corp. stepped
up 1.06, or 3.9%, to 28.56.
        The FFBN Computer Index fell 155.72, or 4.4%, to 3356.42.
Microsoft's announcement only amplified worries in the PC sector, which has
fallen in the past few weeks on poor earnings forecasts and lower demand.
International Business Machines Inc. shares skidded 4.63, or 5%, to 87.81,
and Hewlett-Packard Co. shares weakened by 1.88, or 5.6%, to end at 31.63.
Compaq Computer Corp. shares declined 1.35, or 7.2%, to 17.35.
        Storage maker EMC Corp. also saw its shares react to Microsoft's
woes.  Despite the fact that several analysts maintained positive ratings on
the company, its shares fell 6.50, or 8.7%, to 68.13.  Bear Stearns & Co. cut
EMC to attractive from buy.  The FFBN Storage Index dropped 108.01, or 7.6%,
to 1305.74.
        Among chipmakers, shares of C-Cube Microsystems Inc. gave up 5.63, or
32%, to 11.75, after Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown cut its rating on the company
to buy from strong buy.  An analyst at the firm wrote in her note that C-Cube
"has not proven immune to the softness in demand evident" in the
semiconductor industry.  Intel Corp.'s shares lost 2.69, or 7.7%, to 32.44.
        The Dow Jones Industrial Average slid 240.03 points, or 2.3%, to
finish at 10434.96.  The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 74.32, or 2.7%, to close
at 2654.19, while the Standard & Poor's 500 Stock Index fell 28.78, or 2.2%,
to 1312.15.
COMPANY NEWS:
                                        Net      Pct      EPS      EPS
                             Close    Change   Change     00E      01E
3DFX INTERACTIVE (TDFX)      1.78      -0.16    -8.1%   $(1.94)     NA
After the market closed Friday, 3DFX Interactive Inc. posted a third quarter
net loss of $178.6 million, or $4.53 a share, compared with a loss of $17.6
million, or 73 cents a share, in the same period a year ago.  Net income
includes goodwill amortization expenses of $117.1 million and in-process
research and development costs.  Excluding items, third quarter loss was
$55.9 million.  Revenue decreased to $39.2 million from $105.9 million a year
ago.
                                        Net      Pct      EPS      EPS
                             Close    Change   Change     00E      01E
APPLE COMPUTER (AAPL)        14.06     -0.38    -2.6%    $0.37    $0.95
Apple Computer Inc. said it expects its capital expenditures to increase to
$225 million during its fiscal year 2001 ending Sept. 30, Federal Filings
reported.  According to the company's annual report filed late Thursday with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, the increase in expenditures will be
used to accommodate information systems enhancements and strategic
initiatives.  Apple didn't specify the amount of its capital expenditures for
fiscal 2000.
                                        Net     Pct       EPS      EPS
                             Close    Change   Change     00E      01E
CMGI INC. (CMGI)              8.28     -0.78    -8.6%   $(6.78)     NA
ORACLE CORP. (ORCL)          28.56     +1.06    +3.9%    $0.49    $0.60
SUN MICROSYSTEMS (SUNW)      30.44     -1.25    -3.9%    $0.70    $0.88
Robertson Stephens cut its rating on CMGI Inc. to long-term attractive from
buy.
Punk Ziegel & Co. cut Oracle Corp. to market perform from buy.
Bear Stearns & Co. cut Sun Microsystems Inc. to attractive from buy.



17:58


Document ff00000020010806dwcf02aur
?
 

 International News 
 Chase and J.P. Morgan Issue Warning on Profits --- Merger Partners Will Miss 4th-Quarter Estimates 

An Asian Wall Street Journal Roundup
496 words
15 December 2000
The Asian Wall Street Journal
AWSJ
2
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -- Merger partners Chase Manhattan Corp. and J.P. Morgan & Co. Inc. forecast that fourth-quarter earnings would fall substantially below Wall Street estimates due to difficult conditions in capital markets. 

 In a joint statement, the New York-based banks also said they expect their merger to result in 5,000 job cuts and $3 billion in cost synergies. They previously estimated job cuts at 3,000 and cost synergies at $1.9 billion. 

 "The bad news is that the current outlook is certainly more challenging than we might have hoped for," said Chase Vice Chairman Marc Shapiro. 

 "The capital markets are difficult in several respects. The shutting down in new issuance in many of the markets, the widening of credit spreads, the lack of volatility in currency markets and a general decline in customer volume in the first two months of the quarter will contribute to lower trading revenues at both firms than we've had in previous quarters," he said. 

 Chase, the No. 3 U.S. bank holding company, announced in September that it would acquire J.P. Morgan, a commercial and investment bank, in a deal valued at about $35 billion at current stock valuations. The deal will move Chase into the company of a handful of powerful global players dominating the securities industry. 

 Chase and J.P. Morgan said they anticipate that the combined company will take a charge of about $1.2 billion at the closing of the merger. The balance of one-time costs from the transaction would be expensed over the two years following the closing of the deal, they said. 

 The firms didn't disclose per-share numbers in their fourth-quarter profit warning. Analysts' consensus earnings forecasts are 78 cents a share for Chase and $2.62 per share for J.P. Morgan, according to data compiled by market research firm First Call/Thomson Financial. Chase and J.P. Morgan said they plan to issue a joint earnings statement for the fourth quarter on Jan. 17. 

 They said they expect fourth-quarter trading revenues to be down from a year earlier and from the third quarter, due mainly to a challenging market environment, including low volatility in currency markets, wider credit spreads and a decline in customer volumes. 

 Chase's venture-capital arm, Chase Capital Partners, currently has a market-to-market loss in excess of $300 million in the carrying value of the publicly traded portion of its portfolio, the firms noted. 

 Fourth-quarter cash expenses for both firms will be higher than in the third quarter, they said. 

 "The current market environment has clearly put pressure on revenues and will lead to lower-than-expected results for the quarter," said Douglas Warner III, J.P. Morgan chairman, and William Harrison, Chase chairman and chief executive, in a joint statement. 

Document awsj000020010803dwcf00f2l
?
 

 DaimlerChrysler to Temporarily Idle Some Plants in Early January 

484 words
15 December 2000
23:18
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 AUBURN HILLS, Mich. -- DaimlerChrysler AG said it plans to operate eight of its 12 U.S. and Canadian assembly plants during the week of Jan. 2 to balance vehicle inventory. 

 The auto maker, which earlier this month reported a 5% decline in U.S. vehicle sales for November, said it won't operate the Bramalea plant in Brampton, Ontario; the Jefferson North Plant in Detroit; the Dodge City, Warren Truck plant in Warren, Mich., and the Toledo, Ohio. 

 The plants make the Chrysler Concorde, Jeep Grand Cherokee, Dodge Ram, Dodge Dakota and Jeep Wrangler models. 

 DaimlerChrysler (DCX) noted it sets production schedules on a weekly basis. 

 Earlier this month, the embattled German-American auto maker described the marketplace as highly competitive and saturated. Combined with excess inventory, the company said immediate action was needed. Also at the time, DaimlerChrysler announced several temporary plant closings for December. 

 For years, Chrysler had earned the highest operating profit per vehicle of any of Detroit's Big Three auto makers. Not anymore. Chrysler's profit per vehicle plummeted to $714 during the first nine months of this year. That is less than half the level it earned in the same period in 1998, before it was sold to Daimler-Benz. 

 The Big Three have been taking steps to address growing inventories amid weakening demand for vehicles. 

 On Thursday, General Motors Corp. (GM) said it will halt production temporarily at three of its North American facilities and cut out overtime at its U.S. car plants next week. Ford Motor Co. (F), meanwhile, said Thursday it will temporarily idle two U.S. passenger-car plants, located in Chicago and Wixom, Mich., next week. 

 Earlier this month, the auto makers reported declines in November sales figures. Ford Motor reported a 7.2% drop for the month and announced plans to reduce production. The No. 2 auto maker also issued a fourth-quarter profit warning at the time. The company has said it will cut production for the first quarter by 10%. 

 GM's November U.S. sales fell 8.4%, as both car and truck sales declined. The No. 1 auto maker cut its first-quarter forecast for North American production last week by 14% to 1.301 million units, the lowest first-quarter level since 1996. 

 Despite record sales in North America, overcapacity has been driving new-vehicle prices lower for the past several years, squeezing already-thin profit margins. While many economists expect next year to be the third-best sales year ever in the U.S., all of the Big Three auto makers are facing pressure on their bottom lines. 

 Most analysts expect vehicle sales to decline to between 17 million and 17.3 million units in 2001, down from the expected 18 million units this year. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020020330dwcf01m0f
?
 

 Mexico's Femsa Shares Plunge After 4Q  Profit Warning 

 By Tim Duffy 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
406 words
15 December 2000
19:00
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 MEXICO CITY -(Dow Jones)- Investors punished shares of Mexican bottler Fomento Economico Mexicano SA (FMX) after the company said operating profit in 2000 will grow at a lower-than-expected rate of between 9% and 11%. 

 Around 1830 GMT, Femsa's locally-traded UBD shares were off 4.25 pesos ($1=MXN9.4150) or 13% to MXN28.15. Meanwhile in New York, the company's American Depositary Receipts retreated nearly 15%, giving up 5 to 29 1/2. 

 Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank downgraded their ratings of Femsa following the profit warning. Goldman Sachs lowered Femsa to "market performer" from "market outperformer," while Deutsche Bank adjusted its recommendation to "buy" from "strong buy." 

 Femsa said the lower operating profit stems from the company's Femsa Cerveza beer unit, Mexico's second largest brewer and the maker of Sol, Tecate, and Dos Equis beers. 

 Femsa Cerveza's operating profit in the fourth quarter will likely fall around 17% to 19% from the year-before quarter on a 5% to 7% decrease in beer shipments, Femsa said in a press release Thursday. 

 Femsa cited several factors as contributing to the drop in beer shipments. Among them are stricter commercial practices resulting in lower points-of-sale inventories; cold weather in Mexico's northern region, which accounts for around 60% of Femsa's beer sales; and unusually high demand in the 1999 fourth quarter. 

 "This is not unexpected news since there have been some warnings about possible weakness in the next few quarters. However, the magnitude of the shortfall is worse-than-expected," wrote UBS Warburg analyst Jose Yordan in a research note. 

 Yordan did not downgrade the stock, saying investors should take advantage of any "overreaction in the stock," or any decline of more than $1 to $2 dollars. 

 Despite his downgrade of the company, Deutsche Bank analyst Marco Vera said that Femsa's new commercial practices, while they are hurting the company now, will help in the long-term. 

 "Our stance with respect to Femsa's decision to undertake a new strategic direction in which it would break away from status quo commercial practices is the same -- we believe in its long-term benefits," Vera wrote in a research note. 


Company Web Site:
http://www.femsa.com
-By Tim Duffy, Dow Jones Newswires; (525)726-9152;
tim.duffy@dowjones.com


Document dji0000020010805dwcf062uo
?
 

 JP Morgan bonuses hold up amid job  cut  gloom. 

 By Joe Ortiz, European Banking Correspondent 
504 words
14 December 2000
16:15
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, Dec 14 (Reuters) - Bonuses for 2000 at investment bank JP Morgan have held up well compared to last year but staff were hit on Thursday by a massive and unexpected increase in the number of job losses related to the firm's takeover by Chase Manhattan. 

 Banking sources said that in some cases bonuses had bettered the 1999 levels but any "Red Letter Day" glee was tempered by a joint profit warning from the two banks relating to the fourth quarter and news that merger-related "job eliminations" would climb to 5,000. 

 "People are being told their bonuses today, and will be told informally if they've got jobs or not. It's looking quite good here on the credit side," one JP Morgan banker said. 

 At the time the deal was first announced in September, the group said it would employ 95,000 staff but only 32,000 of these would be in areas where JP Morgan is a player. 

 Bill Harrison, chief executive of the combined group said at the time that the likely reduction in headcount would be around 10 percent based on the experience of previous Chase takeovers. 

 "This is not about massive lay-offs. This is about growth...we've honestly not come up with a head cut number, (but) it's going to be less than that (3,000)," Harrison said. 

 One analyst at Chase, who was speaking to a Reuters reporter as news of the job cuts flashed on to traders' screens was not very optimistic. 

 "I think I'm leaving Chase, he said. "I'm still being paid but I don't have a position in the new J.P. Morgan." 

 Another source said staff have been hearing about their future for some, especially at the more senior levels, "some people have been told that their jobs are at risk." 

 The source said that job losses at Robert Fleming, the UK-based investment bank which Chase bought before its takeover of JP Morgan, were turning out to be disproportionately large given the extensive overlap with JP Morgan's operations. 

 Chase/JP Morgan cited higher costs as one of the reasons behind the fourth quarter profit shortfall. It said this was due to "normal seasonal pattern of expenses growth and competitive pressures on compensation." 

 The sources said the latter factor related to the "salaries war" going on among investment banks to both keep and hire key staff amid job market volatility caused by the large amount of consolidation within the industry this year. 

 Chase/JP Morgan said its target for 2001 was that expenses would be flat on a year-on-year basis. 

 The higher amount of job losses was reflected immediately in an equally massive rise in the projected cost savings produced by the takeover. 

 At a stroke, these rose to a massive $3.0 billion from an estimate of $1.9 billion at the time of the deal. 

Document lba0000020010821dwce0ab50
?
 

 ADR REPORT-Foreign shares fall under weight of profit woes. 

581 words
14 December 2000
20:14
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 14 (Reuters) - Shares of foreign companies traded in the U.S. markets fell on Thursday as earnings warnings mounted in a softening U.S. economy and spurred investors to take profits. 

 The Bank of New York's index of leading American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) shed 0.85 percent to 130.52. The tech-packed Nasdaq composite index fell 2.30 percent to 2,757. The Dow Jones industrial average , the closely watched blue-chip gauge, was 0.90 percent lower at 10,678. 

 The Bank of New York's index of leading European ADRs slid 0.83 percent to 139.96. Europe's bourses crumbled as telecoms sank on fears of a credit crunch, and banks slid after a profit warning and analyst downgrades. 

 Bank shares came under pressure after U.S. financial giants Chase Manhattan Corp. and J.P. Morgan & Co. issued a quarterly profit warning, and Goldman Sachs downgraded a slew of European wholesale banks. 

 Sentiment overseas was further unsettled by a warning on the concentration of bank lending to telecoms companies. 

 British bank HSBC Holdings Plc fell $2.55 to $72.95. Vodafone Group Plc dropped $1-11/16 to $36-15/16, and British Telecommunications Plc slid $2-9/16 to $97-3/4. 

 Feeble oil prices steadied, triggered by the resumption of U.N. monitored Iraqi crude exports. Royal Dutch/Shell Group shed $2 to $55-1/8, BP Amoco Plc lost $1-11/16 to $47-7/8, and TotalFinaElf dropped $2-1/4 to $64-13/16. 

 The Bank of New York index of leading Latin American ADRs inched up 0.11 percent to 91.61. 

 The Mexican market moved lower in volatile trading, as investors worry over a possible hard landing in the U.S. economy. 

 "The market is volatile and investors would rather take their profits after the recent rally than pour fresh money into the market, at least until they get a better idea of the direction of the U.S. economy," said a local trader there. 

 Telecommunications giant Telefonos de Mexico (Telmex) slid 11/16 to $46-1/16. Grupo Televisa , the world's largest Spanish-language media company, lost 15/16 to $49-3/4. 

 But Brazilian phone companies Embratel Participacoes SA rose 3/8 to 15-1/2, Tele Norte Leste Participaes edged up 3/4 to $22-1/4, and Telebras gained 11/16 to $72. Brazilian oil company Petrobras rose 3/4 to $25-7/8. 

 Brazilian investors are hoping their country and the United States would seen interest rate cut soon, traders there had said. 

 The Bank of New York index of leading Asian ADRs dropped 1.08 percent to 117.73. 

 Asian asset markets weakened as investors focused on the near four percent drop in the Nasdaq overnight, while taking in their stride the official concession by U.S. Democratic presidential candidate Al Gore to Republican George W. Bush. 

 Japanese electronics giant Sony Corp. lost $2-11/16 to $76-5/16. Technology companies Hitachi Ltd. shed 3/4 to $99-1/13, Kyocera Corp. dropped $3-1/4 to $134-1/8 and NEC Corp. lost $6-13/16 to $105-9/16. 

 Chinese telecom companies China Mobile (Hong Kong) edged 5/16 lower to $29-7/8, and China Unicom nosed 1/8 higher to $17-1/2. Oil giant Petrochina lost 5/8 to $17-13/16. 

Document lba0000020010821dwce0ab2n
?
 

 HOT STOCKS HIGHLIGHTS - Dec. 14. 

1,190 words
14 December 2000
18:02
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 14 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks were down in early afternoon trading on Thursday as Chase Manhattan Corp. and J.P. Morgan & Co. Inc. joined the lengthening list of companies issuing profit warnings. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average was off 109.59 points, or 1.02 percent, to 10684.85. The tech-laden Nasdaq composite was off 26.29 points, or 0.93 percent, to 2796.48. The Standard and Poor's 500 was off 9.16 points, or 0.67 percent, to 1350.83. 

 U.S. stocks making significant moves include: 

 CHASE MANHATTAN CORP. OFF $1-7/8, OR 4.21 PERCENT, AT $42-5/8. 

 J.P. MORGAN OFF $6-7/8, OR 4.19 PERCENT AT $157-3/8. 

 **Merger partners Chase Manhattan and J.P. Morgan on Thursday said they plan to cut 5,000 jobs and forecast fourth-quarter profits substantially below Wall Street estimates because of weak trading revenues, higher expenses and investment losses. 

 The New York-based banks, which expect to close their $28.5 billion merger by year end, confirmed reports they were going to eliminate more than the 3,000 jobs previously estimated. The banks now see cost savings of $3 billion, up from their previous estimate of $1.9 billion. 

 The companies did not disclose per-share numbers in their fourth-quarter profit warning. Analysts' consensus earnings forecasts are 78 cents a share for Chase and $2.62 per share for J.P. Morgan, according to data compiled by market research firm First Call/Thomson Financial. Chase and J.P. Morgan said they plan to issue a joint earnings statement for the fourth quarter on Jan. 17. 

 CORNING INC. UP 7/16, OR 0.6 PERCENT, TO $72-7/8. 

 **Corning, the world's largest fiber optic cable company, said on Thursday it expects to post fourth-quarter earnings at the high end of its guidance, citing the "global appetite for Internet bandwidth." 

 The company's previous guidance for the quarter was 26 to 28 cents. This guidance does not include earned interest income, which will raise fourth-quarter earnings by 2 cents per share, Corning said in a news release. The analysts' consensus estimate was 28 cents for the quarter, according to market research firm First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 In fiscal year 2001, Corning said it expects to earn $1.40 to $1.43 per share on a pro forma basis, on revenues of $9.1 billion to $9.2 billion. Analysts on average were expecting $1.43 in 2001, according to First Call. 

 Shares of Corning were up as high as $76-7/16 in NYSE trading on Thursday. 

 XEROX CORP. UP 13/16, OR 14.29 PERCENT, TO $6-1/2. 

 **The president of Xerox, the world's No. 1 copier maker that is struggling with a turnaround plan, said on Thursday it would use $550 million in cash from the sale of its China operations to shore up its liquidity. 

 "Generally it's going to be used to improve our liquidity," President and Chief Operating Officer Anne Mulcahy said of the cash from the sale. "It will not be reinvested." 

 She also said talks on the sale of part of the company's stake in Fuji Xerox Co. Ltd. were on track and should lead to a deal early next year. Mulcahy said the company expected to make further announcements about asset sales in the months to come. 

 NORTEL NETWORKS CORP. UP $1-15/16, OR 5.32 PERCENT, TO $38-3/8 IN NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE TRADING. 

 **Nortel Networks said on Thursday that it is "very confident" it will meet market expectations for 2000 and 2001. 

 This marks the third time that Nortel, the world's No. 1 supplier of fiber-optic network equipment, has affirmed its forecast for 2000 and 2001 since reporting weaker-than-expected third-quarter results in October. 

 Nortel said it continues to expect both revenues and earnings per share in 2000 to grow in the low 40 percent range. The company is also maintaining its forecast of fourth-quarter revenues of $8.5 billion to $8.8 billion and 26 cents per share on a fully diluted basis. Nortel said it still expects its optical sales to grow in excess of 125 percent in 2000 to exceed $10 billion in revenues. 

 In 2001, the company continues to forecast growth in revenues and earnings per share from operations in the 30 to 35 percent range. For the first quarter of 2001, the company forecasts revenues of $8.1 billion to $8.3 billion and earnings of 16 cents per share on a fully diluted basis. 

 MAXIM PHARMACEUTICALS INC. OFF $3-7/8, OR 29.52 PERCENT, TO $9-1/4. 

 **Maxim Pharmaceuticals, a company looking to bring its first product to the market, suffered a setback on Wednesday as a U.S. panel rejected the company's experimental drug Maxamine for treating advanced skin cancer. 

 A U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) advisory committee said the study results presented by the company did not persuade them that Maxamine extended the lives of patients with a deadly form of skin cancer. 

 The unanimous vote against recommending approval was a blow to Maxim because the FDA usually follows its panels' advice. The company needs the FDA's approval to sell Maxamine in the United States. 

 QLT INC. OFF $11-9/16, OR 28.59 PERCENT, TO $28-7/8 IN NASDAQ MARKET TRADING. 

 **QLT said on Thursday that sales of its Visudyne anti-blindness therapy would fall slightly below estimates in the fourth quarter because of currency fluctuations in Europe and the lack of health plan reimbursement in some countries. 

 QLT said sales growth for Visudyne vials will grow by 20 percent to 25 percent in the fourth quarter over the third quarter, resulting in sales of approximately $36 to $38 million. 

 The company said it will miss its upside sales target by 2.3 percent in terms of expected sales for Visudyne vials, while the remainder of the sales shortfall is due to a decline in the euro and the Swiss franc. 

 QLT said sales for fiscal 2001 should fall in the range of $240 million to $260 million. 

 ADOBE SYSTEMS INC. FELL $8-7/8, OR 13.41 PERCENT, TO $57-5/16. 

 **The stock of software maker Adobe Systems fell more than 13 percent after a Wall Street analyst downgraded it ahead of the company's fourth-quarter earnings report due later on Thursday. 

 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter analyst Rebecca Runkle downgraded shares of the No. 1 graphic-design software maker to a neutral rating from outperform, citing a slowing economy and the company's high value relative to expected earnings. 

 Analysts noted that Adobe was expected to meet Wall Street's consensus earnings estimate of 29 cents per share, as compiled by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Yet future growth rates may slow, due to a predicted slump in personal computer sales and a lack of new products in the near term, said Banc of America Securities analyst Greg Vogel. 

Document lba0000020010821dwce0aaou
?
 

 WRAPUP 1-Bank shares hurt by Chase/JP Morgan, downgrades. 

 By Joe Ortiz, European Banking Correspondent 
845 words
14 December 2000
15:16
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, Dec 14 (Reuters) - Banking shares were under intense pressure on Thursday after soon-to-be global giant Chase J.P. Morgan issued a fourth quarter profits warning and Goldman Sachs downgraded a swathe of European wholesale banks. 

 "We've seen them come off already and there's potential for it to get worse but you have to take it on a case-by-case basis," said an analyst at one European fund management firm. 

 The analyst said if capital markets trading volumes collapse in the next six months, then a larger number of banks would be hit. 

 The profit warning at Chase J.P. Morgan was accompanied by chilling news for the staff of the to-be-merged bank - job losses would rise to 5,000 - much higher than the banks had admitted when the deal was first announced in September. 

 Earlier, European bank shares had fallen sharply after Goldman Sachs downgraded five banks saying current earnings forecasts could prove too high due to weak capital markets trends and higher U.S. loan provisions in 2001. 

 Goldman cut ABN AMRO , BNP Paribas , Credit Lyonnais , Deutsche Bank and Societe Generale . 

 Sentiment was further unsettled by another warning on the concentration of bank lending to telecoms companies, this time by the Bank of England. 

 But the analyst said fears about the telecoms sector had been overstated and that other areas of lending, such as makers of automotive components, should also be a worry. 

 "There are other sectors that are of equal or greater concern," he said. 

 He also noted that a reaction to the current trend was the shift into regional retail banks which are seen as a relatively safe haven in times of market volatility. 

 On Thursday, such banks were showing smaller losses or even small gains with Germany's HypovereinsBank 0.4 percent up at 58.75 euros ($51.99) while Danske Bank gained 1.5 percent at 138 Danish crowns ($16.36). 

 DIFFICULT MARKET, HIGHER EXPENSES 

 The profits warning from the soon-to-be-consummated union of Chase Manhattan Corp. and J.P. Morgan & Co. Inc. JPM.N) was blamed on a difficult capital markets environment coupled with higher expenses. 

 But the banks were quick to point out that, despite a deteriorating credit environment, their own credit portfolios were "performing relatively well". 

 Several U.S. banks have warned the markets in recent months over worsening credit quality and Bank of America last week said it would face up to $1.2 billion of loan losses in the fourth quarter and expected an even worse picture in 2001. 

 Banks are also being hurt in their venture capital operations where many investments have been made in the technology sector which is now seriously under water. 

 Chase said its Chase Capital partners unit had a more than $300 million mark-to-market loss in the fourth quarter on its public securities. 

 Chase and J.P. Morgan shares slumped in pre-open trade on Wall Street. Chase lost $3-1/2 to $41 and J.P. Morgan sank to $151-1/2 from $164-1/4. 

 This added to the gloom in Europe where ABN AMRO led the fallers, losing six percent of its value to stand at 24.52 euros, having earlier touched a low of 24.30. 

 BNP Paribas fell 4.23 percent to 91.80 euros while Deutsche lost nearly five percent to 87.00 euros and SG dipped 5.3 percent to 63.45 euros. 

 The Dow Jones STOXX European banks index was 2.55 percent lower overall, underperforming the wider market which lost 1.77 percent. 

 EARNINGS CAUTION 

 Goldman European banking analyst Susan Leadham said in the report that increased caution on the earnings front for the wholesale bank sector coupled with a growing valuation gap to comparable U.S. shares meant "this leaves room for near-term sentiment and stock price performance disappointment." 

 Goldman still believes the broader European capital markets environment will prove to offer significant medium to longer-term opportunities, near-term negative sentiment "could provide an even more attractive investment point." 

 The report adds that while higher provisions against problem loans are likely in the U.S. this should not endanger European banks although those with the greatest risk are, not surprisingly, those with the biggest U.S. focus - Deutsche, BNP Paribas and ABN AMRO. 

 "We re-emphasise that the recent growth of U.S. problem loans has not been technology boom related," the report adds. "While we do not rule out increased delinquencies to technology related companies, we believe that lists of telecom syndications are something of a red herring." 

 Even on its worst-case scenario for loan losses, Goldman says these could be absorbed by one year's worth of cash flow. 

 The Bank of England on Thursday warned that risks for banks who have lent to the telecoms sector have, on balance, grown in the past six months and called for greater vigilance from both banks and regulators. 

Document lba0000020010821dwce0aaj6
?
 

 Chase, JP Morgan see weak profits, shed 5,000 jobs. 

649 words
14 December 2000
13:15
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 Weak fourth-quarter earnings are expected and 5,000 jobs will be cut by the merging duo J.P. Morgan and Chase Manhattan. 

 NEW YORK, Dec 14 (Reuters) - Merger partners Chase Manhattan Corp. and J.P. Morgan & Co. Inc. on Thursday forecast that their fourth-quarter earnings would fall substantially below Wall Street estimates due to difficult conditions in capital markets. 

 In a joint statement, the New York-based banks also said they expect their combination to result in 5,000 job cuts and $3 billion in cost synergies. They previously estimated job cuts at 3,000 and cost synergies at $1.9 billion. 

 Chase, the No. 3 U.S. bank holding company, announced in September that it would acquire J.P. Morgan, a commercial and investment bank, in a deal worth about $35 billion at current stock valuations. The deal will move Chase into the company of a handful of powerful global players dominating the securities industry. 

 Chase and J.P. Morgan said they anticipate that the combined company will take a charge of about $1.2 billion at the closing of the merger. The balance of one-time costs from the transaction would be expensed over the two years following the closing of the deal, they said. 

 The firms did not disclose per-share numbers in their fourth-quarter profit warning. Analysts' consensus earnings forecasts are 78 cents a share for Chase and $2.62 per share for J.P. Morgan, according to data compiled by market research firm First Call/Thomson Financial. Chase and J.P. Morgan said they plan to issue a joint earnings statement for the fourth quarter on Jan. 17. 

 They said they expect fourth-quarter trading revenues to be down from a year earlier and from the third quarter, due mainly to a challenging market environment, including low volatility in currency markets, wider credit spreads and a decline in customer volumes. 

 Chase's venture capital arm, Chase Capital Partners, currently has a mark-to-market loss in excess of $300 million in the carrying value of the publicly traded portion of its portfolio, the firms noted. 

 Fourth-quarter cash expenses for both firms will be higher than in the third quarter, they said. 

 "The current market environment has clearly put pressure on revenues and will lead to lower-than-expected results for the quarter," Douglas Warner III, J.P. Morgan chairman, and William Harrison, Chase chairman and chief executive, said in a joint statement. 

 "At the same time, our merger integration process is both ahead of schedule and working extremely well, and credit and market risk measures remain stable," they said. 

 The firms said their credit risk remains stable, and non-performing assets are not expected to increase materially in the fourth quarter. 

 However, they said will increase their provision for credit losses due to higher commercial charge-offs. 

 In the fourth quarter, special items at Chase will include an $870 million pre-tax gain on the sale of its Hong Kong-based retail banking business, while special items at J.P. Morgan will include a $400 million pre-tax gain on the termination of its operating agreement with Euroclear, the firms said. 

 The Federal Reserve Board approved the banks' merger on Dec 11. Shareholder meetings to approve the deal will be held on Dec. 22, the firms said. They added that they anticipate closing the deal around year-end. 

 Chase shares finished at $44-1/2 on the New York Stock Exchange on Wednesday. The stock has a 52-week high of $67-1/8 and a 52-week low of $32-3/8. 

 J.P. Morgan shares closed at $164-1/4, also on the New York Stock Exchange. Its stock has a 52-week high of $183-3/4 and a 52-week low of $104-7/8. 

Document lba0000020010821dwce09z8q
?
 

Abreast of the Market
 Compaq's Warning Stings Techs; IBM, Hewlett-Packard, Dell Fall   

 By Robert O'Brien   
Dow Jones Newswires
1,224 words
14 December 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
C4
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

 NEW YORK -- High-technology stocks fell victim to another spate of profit worries after Compaq Computer dropped back to its lows for the year on a warning that earnings wouldn't live up to Wall Street's forecasts.   

 Compaq's stock slid to $18.10 on a decline of $2.67 and dragged a number of other names in the sector down with it. Rival computer makers also declined. International Business Machines fell 2.63 to 91.25, Hewlett-Packard fell 2.06 to 33.19, and Dell Computer slipped 1.27 to 20.44 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.   

 Server makers such as Sun Microsystems also had a bad go of it, as investors reacted to Compaq's warning that its products in the category had felt the pinch of pricing pressures. Sun fell 2.13 to 31.34 on Nasdaq, dropping to a 52-week low of 31.50 intraday. Meanwhile, Veritas Software, whose storage-software products are used in server networks, declined 9.75 to 104.88 on Nasdaq, while Avocent, which makes remote storage-access equipment, slid 10.25 to 32.63 on Nasdaq.   

 With the group in distress, investors showed some caution about a host of technology products, raising profits in some of the higher-priced stocks that had rallied so impressively from their lows two weeks ago. Corning fell 2.44 to 72.50, while JDS Uniphase fell 1.69 to 64.69 on Nasdaq, and VeriSign dropped 10.06 to 102, also on Nasdaq.   

 But analysts said they saw some signs that the group, even with its volatility, has been trying to put in place a bottom from which to mount a real recovery.   

 "These stocks came back down, it's true, but they're not going down to their lows of several weeks ago," said Peter DaPuzzo, co-president of institutional equities at Cantor Fitzgerald. "That suggests we're moving out of the bear-market cycle and trying to push into the rally mode."   

 The Nasdaq Composite Index finished down 109, or 3.72%, at 2822.77. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fared better, closing higher by 26.17, or 0.24%, at 10794.44.   

 The victory for Gov. George W. Bush in the Supreme Court case that apparently settled the election stalemate in his favor did throw off some dividends for a handful of stocks. Tobacco makers, such as Philip Morris, which gained 2.50 to 40.81, and RJR Tobacco Holdings, which advanced 4.25 to 45.94, notched gains.   

 Some drug makers, another group expected to fare better with Mr. Bush rather than with Vice President Al Gore in the White House, also posted gains. Pfizer, for example, added 1.81 to 45.81, while Schering-Plough rose 2.13 to 57.88, and Merck inched up 63 cents to 92. Merck had told analysts Tuesday that it expected to live up to earnings forecasts. Medical-device makers also acquitted themselves relatively well, with Johnson & Johnson adding 1.69 to 98.69, while Medtronic gained 2.06 to 56.   

 But for whatever reason, there wasn't a rush to buy stocks. "I think the outlook for interest rates, more so than getting closure on this election, is going to be the catalyst that takes stocks higher," said Arthur Hogan, chief market analyst at Jefferies.   

 In fact, several financial stocks, which have an exposure to interest rates, mounted gains, as investors anticipated some encouraging turn from the Federal Reserve, which convenes a policy meeting Tuesday.   

 J.P. Morgan advanced 5.81 to 164.25, while its prospective merger partner Chase Manhattan added 1.50 to 44.50, and securities broker Goldman Sachs Group added 1.63 to 94.06.   

 However, financial services exposed to consumer spending, such as credit-card lenders, suffered, with Providian Financial off 2.69 to 45.63, and Capital One Financial down 1.56 to 58.06.   

 Semiconductor-equipment stocks, which faded Tuesday after some cautious comments from Thomas Weisel Partners, faltered again, this time on some pessimistic remarks from an analyst at Merrill Lynch.   

 Applied Materials fell 2.81 to 42.69, while Lam Research dropped 1.50 to 16.56, Novellus fell 1.13 to 30.50, and Cymer retreated 1.44 to 26.63, all on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Among chip makers, STMicroelectronics fell 2.56 to 45.50, after Credit Suisse First Boston, citing downbeat trends industrywide, cut its rating on the stock to reflect more cautious earnings expectations for the 2001 fiscal year.   

 Several contract electronics manufacturers, which sell products to PC makers, skidded. Flextronics fell 2.75 to 27.75, Jabil Circuit eased 2.44 to 33.69, Solectron dropped 2.40 to 28.61, and Sanmina slid 11.69 to 73.38.   

 The sell-off even caught some high-technology companies that offered what, on the face of it, seemed like good news. Nuance Communications, for example, a Menlo Park, Calif., maker of speech-recognition software, fell 10 to 55.25 on Nasdaq. Siebel Systems, a provider of electronic-commerce application software, said it agreed to license and integrate Nuance's technology for use in some of its products. Siebel fell 8.69 to 85.63 on Nasdaq.   

 RSA Security dropped 1.13 to 52 on Nasdaq, even though Thomas Weisel Partners started coverage of the Bedford, Mass., maker of computer-security products with a strong buy rating.   

 Acxiom gained 69 cents to 36.81 on Nasdaq. In a research note, CIBC World Markets said that a sell-off Tuesday in shares of the Little Rock, Ark., maker of database-marketing products represents a buying opportunity.   

 Digex gained 3.05 to 29.25 on Nasdaq. Lehman Brothers started coverage of the Beltsville, Md., provider of Web-hosting services with a buy rating, calling it a leader in the category of high-end hosting.   

 Whirlpool fell 2.75 to 41.44. The Benton Harbor, Mich., home-appliance maker warned that fourth-quarter earnings would fall short of what analysts had been projecting, blaming declining shipments in North America and an industry slowdown in Europe.   

 Rival Maytag also declined, off 1.13 to 29.69.   

 Illinois Tool Works retreated 1.88 to 58.88. The Glenview, Ill., manufacturer of engineered components said that its fourth-quarter earnings wouldn't reach Wall Street's projections.   

 Lucent Technologies advanced for a third straight day, gaining 1.25 to 19.94, amid persistent rumors the telecommunications equipment maker is a takeover target. Speculation identified Finnish telecom-equipment maker Nokia as a suitor; both Lucent and Nokia declined to comment. Nokia fell 1.81 to 48.13. France's Alcatel denied speculation it might make a bid. Alcatel's American depositary shares dropped 4.25 to 60.   

 Alza slid 2.31 to 37.44. Prudential Securities cut its rating on the Mountain View, Calif., pharmaceuticals maker, citing valuations.   

 QLT sank 6.63 to 40.44 on Nasdaq. Traders said rumors circulated that the Canadian drug maker had canceled plans to make a presentation at a conference next week, but the company said it expects to make that appearance. CIBC World Markets said it reiterated its rating on the stock and called the decline a buying opportunity.   

Document j000000020010807dwce00wyv
?
 

BUSINESS
Schwab Hints at Disappointing Profits; Daily average trades drop in November

Sam Zuckerman; Chronicle Staff Writer   
607 words
14 December 2000
The San Francisco Chronicle
SFC
FINAL
B1
English
Copyright 2000. Hearst Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

Charles Schwab Corp. hinted yesterday that its near-term profits may disappoint Wall Street, signaling tough times are on hand for the online brokerage industry.

In its monthly report on market activity, the nation's largest discount and online broker said daily average trades, not counting mutual fund transactions, dropped 16 percent in November compared with the previous month. And, without actually saying so, the company indicated that it might miss Wall Street's 14- cent-per-share earnings target for the three months ending in December.

"The operating environment in November was a difficult one," Chief Financial Officer Chris Dodds said in an interview.

In response, San Francisco's Schwab has imposed a hiring freeze and reduced discretionary spending. "We have essentially put a stop in new hires," Dodds said.

Schwab's shares initially plunged more than $3 after similar comments from the company were distributed by financial news services. But the stock bounced back, closing at $30.13, down 56 cents.

Schwab's CFO didn't respond directly when asked what the San Francisco company is likely to earn in the current quarter. Instead, he cited statements by analysts that Schwab will be hard pressed to hit profit expectations unless trading volume jumps or the company takes draconian action to slash costs.

Dodds' comments didn't amount to the kind of profit warning corporations routinely issue these days when they expect earnings to fall short of projections. But analysts interpreted the remarks as a signal to trim their forecasts, which several of them promptly did.

"They put this caution out to get out the (earnings) number, but they didn't want to send an all-out alarm and take the stock down 5 points," said Putnam Lovell Securities analyst Richard Repetto. "They were managing expectations."

Repetto said he trimmed his fourth-quarter earnings estimate for Schwab by 1 cent to 13 cents per share yesterday.

Virtually all retail brokers, not just Schwab, are facing declines in trading volume, revenue and profits now that the stock market bubble has burst, analysts said. That's particularly true for online brokers because they tend to attract investors who favor technology stocks, the hardest-hit sector.

Online investors "are sitting on pretty sharp losses," said Chase H&Q analyst Greg Smith. "That tends to make them move to the sidelines. Volumes are going to be disappointing this quarter and maybe next quarter."

Smith recently lowered his earnings estimate for E-Trade Group and several other brokers as well as Schwab. A spokeswoman for E-Trade, based in Menlo Park, said the company doesn't comment on earnings or market conditions except in its quarterly financial reports.

In its monthly report yesterday, Schwab noted that the assets of its clients fell to $861.6 billion at the end of November, down 9 percent from the previous month, due to falling stock prices. Despite the stock market's woes, the company still managed to draw in $9.4 billion in new assets from current and new customers.

Schwab's hiring freeze follows a rapid buildup of its workforce from 15,100 at the end of 1998 to about 25,400 today. The company isn't planning any layoffs but is looking at a wide range of other steps to cut costs, such as reductions in travel and use of outside consultants, Dodds said.

For example, the company has canceled its annual meeting of branch managers scheduled for Las Vegas in January, a spokesman said.

E-mail Sam Zuckerman at szuckerman@sfchronicle.com.

Document SFC0000020120703dwce007h0
?
 

 Companies: Compaq Says That Its  Profit  Won't Meet Expectations --- U.S. Computer Giant Is Hurt by Weakening Demand ---  Warning  Follows Similar Cautions From Gateway, Apple and Intel 

 By Gary McWilliams 
Staff Reporter
593 words
14 December 2000
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
5
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Compaq Computer Corp. joined the pile-up of technology companies skidding on weaker computer demand, and warned that fourth-quarter earnings and revenue will fall well short of Wall Street analysts' expectations. 

 The world's largest personal-computer maker said revenue for the fourth quarter will be between $11.2 billion and $11.4 billion (12.72 billion euros and 12.95 billion euros), or about $1 billion below analysts' forecasts. It blamed the sales shortfall on lower-than-expected home PC, business PC and server computer sales. 

 The projection means revenue will rise 6.8% to 8.8% from $10.48 billion a year ago. Just seven weeks ago, Compaq said it was confident of expanding revenue by 18% and confirmed analysts' forecasts for earnings of 36 cents a diluted share. Earnings -- before a $1 billion charge to write down high-tech investments -- should come in between 28 cents and 30 cents a diluted share, the company said. 

 Compaq's warning comes after similar cautions from rivals Gateway Inc., Apple Computer Inc. and suppliers Intel Corp. and Advanced Micro Devices Inc. 

 The $1 billion charge largely reflects the crash in CMGI Inc., the Internet conglomerate whose shares have plummeted this year. Compaq owns about 14% of CMGI. 

 Compaq acquired CMGI shares valued at $38 with its 1999 sale to CMGI of portal site AltaVista. It also plans a $75 million charge related to its purchase earlier this year of InaCom Corp.'s distribution operations. 

 Michael D. Capellas, Compaq's chief executive officer, said the slowdown would trim the company's revenue growth and profit next year. He told analysts on a conference call that 2001 revenue is expected to rise about 10% over this year's lowered forecast, below the 14%-16% gains previously projected. 

 While the Houston PC maker had expected home-PC demand to rise 15% from year-ago levels, it now believes home-PC sales will be flat with the third quarter's $2.13 billion in sales. 

 "We've taken steps to cut production to make sure we don't have product we cannot move," Mr. Capellas said. 

 Corporate PC revenue should rise just 3% from the third quarter's $3.48 billion level. Wall Street had been looking for a double-digit gain in corporate PC sales. 

 Michael J. Winkler, executive vice president, said the corporate market has been slow to respond to Microsoft Corp.'s introduction of Windows 2000 software. "We're optimistic that in 2001, it'll come to fruition," he said. 

 The company said it continues to see sales expanding in Asia and Europe on par with its plans. 

 After the Thanksgiving holiday in the U.S. at the end of November, the slowdown that began with consumers quickly spread to small businesses, and to Internet companies acquiring server computers to run their Web sites, Mr. Capellas said. "We've seen an erosion in confidence over the last couple of weeks" among such customers. 

 In addition to lower PC sales, price pressures are growing in corporate desktop PCs and server computers, he said. Declining prices have been most severe among entry-level servers, where archrival Dell Computer Corp. has rapidly expanded its portfolio. Pricing should continue to affect the company's business for the first six months of 2001, he said. However, he cautioned: "We're not implying any dramatic shift." 

Document wsje000020010814dwce00jen
?
 

 Profit warnings wreck the Bush victory party. 

 By IAN SKINNER. 
474 words
14 December 2000
Daily Telegraph
DAITEL
41
English
(c) 2000 Nationwide News Proprietary Ltd

 WALL Street has finally won its strong wish for a Bush victory. But today, few were celebrating. 

 Profit downgrades from a wide range of companies brought home the reality - the US economy is slowing. 

 The US mood spread to the Australian market, where the All Ordinaries index slipped a further 12.5 points to 3229.0 in early trading. 

 Banks took punishment on the local market, with Commonwealth down 36c more at $30.50, National Aust down 20c to $28.53, Westpac 15c to $13.11, ANZ 28c to $14.50 and St George losing 14c to $13.25. 

 News Corp fell 16c to $15.85. 

 Resources stocks were also in the gun, with BHP losing 34c to $19.22, Rio Tinto 40c to $28.45 and WMC 10c to $5.57. 

 Woolworths fell 10c to $7.88 while Coles Myer was unchanged at $7.08. 

 Adding to Wall Street's gloomy mood, government figures today showed US retail sales fell 0.4 per cent in November - its first decline in seven months - as car sales slumped and Christmas sales got off to a slow start. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average gave up a 147-point advance to finish just 26.17 points higher at 107.94, a gain of 0.2 per cent. 

 But the Nasdaq index slumped 109 points, or 3.7 per cent, to 2822.7 while the S&P 500 index fell 11.20 or 0.8 per cent to 1359.98. 

 Four stocks fell for every three that rose on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Holding the Dow up, Philip Morris rose 12 per cent, closely followed by R.J. Reynolds, on the belief that George Bush is less likely to pursue tobacco companies. The same belief helped Pfizer and other major pharmaceutical stocks. 

 But the Nasdaq reeled as computer maker Compaq fell 13 per cent following a profit warning late yesterday. Profit warnings continued to hit the market today, coming from a wide range of companies. 

 They included online broker Charles Schwab, white goods maker Whirlpool, drilling contractor Santa Fe International and Net consultant Razorfish. 

 "People say, `Oh, God, here's another one,"' said Graham Tanaka, president of Tanaka Capital Management. 

 The fourth-quarter profit growth forecast for US companies in the S&P 500 has fallen to 8.4 per cent from a peak of 23.6 per cent in the first quarter, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 As of October 1, analysts were forecasting growth of 15.6 per cent. 

 The Australian dollar today climbed back to US54.06 after dipping to US53.80c. LINKS www.nasdaq.comwww.bloomberg.comwww.cnnfn.com SWITCHBACK 

 `US investors have a hair trigger. There is enormous uncertainty. Buyers are scared' - Craig James, chief economist, ComSec. 

Document daitel0020010805dwce00vk0
?
 Business 
 IN THE MONEY 

 Bill Tucker, Susan Lisovicz, Christine Romans, Sasha Salama, Greg Clarkin, Bill Dorman, Tony Clark, Patty Davis 
9,024 words
14 December 2000
16:00
CNNfn: In The Money
ITHM
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 BILL TUCKER, CNNfn ANCHOR, IN THE MONEY:  Good morning.  Welcome to IN THE MONEY, I`m Bill Tucker. 

 SUSAN LISOVICZ, CNNfn ANCHOR, IN THE MONEY:  And I`m Susan Lisovicz. The transition of power has finally begun in Washington but all eyes on Wall Street are focused on the transition of the bottom line. 

 TUCKER:  Yeah, and it`s an unwelcome transition as more and more companies are running up the red flag warning that earnings will fall below expectations. 

 LISOVICZ:  It`s enough to perhaps make many investors feel a bit defensive, and later in the show we`ll be talking to the fund manager of a bear fund for those of you who think the market is falling a little short. 

 TUCKER:  Yeah, and on the inflation front, producer prices in November rose a modest one-tenth of a percent, unchanged.  If you take out food and energy those numbers a little bit better than Wall Street had been expecting but let`s take a look at what`s going on on Wall Street at this hour.  We`ve got everybody headed down.  The Dow looking worse than it really is, we need to warn you of that right now before you feel really sad and depressed, down 121 points but about 55 to 57 points there are all accounted for in one stock, J.P. Morgan (URL: http://www.jpmorgan.com/) .  J.P. Morgan warning today, Chase Manhattan (URL: http://www.chase.com/) warning and that is dragging down the stock of J.P. Morgan.  We`ll get more on that when we check in with the NYSE. Tech stocks under modest pressure, I think, Susan, would be the best way to put it.  Right now the Nasdaq is only down about 27 points although breadth in that market is decidedly negative. 

 LISOVICZ:  And that`s something we`ve been seeing a lot this week that`s for sure. 

 Now to Washington, George W. Bush woke up as the president-elect this morning and he has little time to waste in putting together his cabinet and White House staff.  Today Vice President-elect Dick Cheney will get the keys to the official transition office in a ceremony that will take place this afternoon.  Last night both Bush and Vice President Gore said it was time for the election battle lines to disappear. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 AL GORE, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  I know that many of my supporters are disappointed, I am too, but our disappointment must be overcome by our love of country. 

 GEORGE W. BUSH, PRESIDENT-ELECT:  Vice President Gore and I put our hearts and hopes into our campaigns.  We both gave it our all.  We shared similar emotions so I understand how difficult this moment must be for Vice President Gore and his family. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 LISOVICZ:  George W. Bush is the second son of a president to follow in his father`s footsteps.  The last father/son presidential combination was John Adams and John Quincy Adams in the early 1800s. 

 TUCKER:  But the resolution of the election having little salve on Wall Street as we continue to get warning after warning after warning. Christine Romans is following the action for the NYSE today and they really do span the gambit from washing machines to packages to banks. 

 CHRISTINE ROMANS, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT:  They do.  They really do and that`s one of the reasons why you`ve got investors so nervous because it doesn`t seem like they can blame it just on the tech sector anymore. It looks as though that slowdown in the U.S. economy is being felt across the spectrum and that`s got folks a little worried about the extent of that slowdown. 

 Just how abrupt is it and is the Fed maybe even behind the curve a little bit, those are just some of the comments here watching today as we see the Dow dip triple digits. 

 J.P. Morgan is the biggest loser in the Dow, having some trouble here. Underwater as is its merger partner, Chase Manhattan, after earlier this morning the two companies came out and warned about their fourth quarter profits.  They named a tight, difficult capital markets environment. They say they expect their total trading revenue to be down from last year. They`re citing a challenging market environment, including low volatility in currency markets and wider credit spreads and a decline in customer volumes. 

 Also, UPS (URL: http://www.ups.com/) is another company out warning. This is the package delivery company.  Have you looked at the transports today?  They`re seeing big losses, almost three percent for the transports on top of losses yesterday.  UPS says that it expects to come in about 7 to 10 percent in terms of its earnings per share growth in the fourth quarter and that is lower than the Street`s expectations.  The Street was looking for something like 14 percent profit growth for Q4 so looks like UPS is looking for earnings per share of about 60 to 62 cents.  First Call`s estimate was 64 cents. 

 And FedEx, as well, is tumbling here today.  One of the reasons there on the wires, the Reuters wires, there were some comments from an official there at FedEx (URL: http://www.fedexcorp.com/) talking about a weak volume growth.  So watching that one as well. 

 You know that it is the package delivery companies that are seeing - the transports that are seeing on the cuts of worries about a slowing economy because here`s how it works.  If an economy slows, manufacturing slows, people need fewer goods and that means both raw materials and finished goods you have fewer of them being shipped across the country and that, of course is where that filters into the transport part of the economy. 

 So that`s what we`re seeing here today in terms of performance from some of those companies that have warned.  Back to you. 

 TUCKER:  It`s a little string of dominos as they all ... 

 ROMANS:  It really is. 

 TUCKER:  ... start to fall.  Thanks, Christine.  Christine at the New York Stock Exchange. 

 LISOVICZ:  Well, the Nasdaq is also lower with biotechs and financials leading the market downward.  Our Sasha Salama at the marketSite with more. 

 Hi, Sasha. 

 SASHA SALAMA, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT:  Hi there. 

 You know those dominos don`t stop at the New York Stock Exchange, they`re being felt here as well.  The Transportation Index also lower here along with the financials and biotechs that you just mentioned.  In fact, in the financials there`s financial sector and banking sector both down in the wake of that warning from Chase/J.P. Morgan.  Very negative breadth here, as Bill mentioned, more than two-to-one negative and the market has been trading in an 81 point range.  It`s off its low.  It had been as low as 2,767 but certainly well off the high as well, which saw a gain of 24. 

 Lots of individual stocks to watch here, including Silicon Image (URL: http://www.siimage.com/) .  SIMG the ticker symbol.  This company makes high-speed communications computer chips.  It`s a stock of pain. SIMG is down 23 percent to about 6 and change, about $1.50 off its low.  Here`s the news, the company warning that the slowdown in demand for personal computers and displays will hurt its revenues and earnings and Lehman Brothers cutting its rating to an outperform, cutting the price target to 15 from 20, also cutting earnings estimates for 2001.  Prudential downgrading Silicon Image as well to a hold from a strong buy. 

 We`re also watching Verity (URL: http://www.verity.com/) , which is a stock of gain.  It`s up 18 1/2 percent. VRTY coming in with 23 cents, 3 cents better.  This is a software maker. 

 SG Cowen making positive comments as well. 

 PHSY is PacifiCare Health Systems (URL: http://www.pacificare.com/) , down 6 1/2 percent.  This company cutting its workforce 6 percent, taking a charge of $15 million to $17 million.  This is the largest provider of Medicare health plans. 

 And finally, Oracle (URL: http://www.oracle.com/) , look over my shoulder, that`s a stock of gain, up nearly 4 1/2 percent.  Oracle the number two software maker behind Microsoft (URL: http://www.microsoft.com/) reporting results after the close, 10 cents a share expected.  And, Susan, you know Oracle has a particular area called application software that analysts are really focusing on in this report today.  That`s software that helps companies move their operations to the Internet and automate their businesses.  Analysts are looking for that particular sector of Oracle to be up between 48 and 55 percent so watch out for that. 

 LISOVICZ:  Sasha Salama at the Nasdaq marketSite. 

 TUCKER:  Well, after almost a year long review the Federal Trade Commission is meeting at this hour to decide whether to approve the biggest merger in media history, AOL (URL: http://www.aol.com/) and Time Warner (URL: http://www.timewarner.com/) , this network`s parent company. "Wall Street Journal" is reporting that the chief executives of the two companies met last night and signed an agreement that would clear the way for approval today.  Greg Clarkin has been following this story.  We let him out of the house, sent him down to D.C. and he`s standing out in front of the Federal Trade Commission headquarters in Washington with the latest. 

 Hey, Greg. 

 GREG CLARKIN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT, WASHINGTON D.C.:  Hi there, Bill and Susan. 

 We are pretty much on standby at this point.  This meeting, as we understand, has begun just moments ago.  Was scheduled to get underway at 11 a.m. and apparently it has.  Now the FTC expected to take maybe an hour to an hour and a half.  It could go as long as two hours or two and a half hours, according to their spokesman, to debate this issue and also vote on whether or not to approve America Online`s acquisition of Time Warner. Now a number of sticking points that have really been swirling around this merger, one of the primary ones is really looking at broadband, their high speed Internet access over Time Warner`s cable lines.  Something that the opposition to this deal really have been screaming about is making sure those cable lines allow access to other ISPs, other Internet service providers, in addition to America Online. Now "The Journal" reporting that apparently late last night some agreement was reached to provide for a broader opening of those lines. And we spoke to a number of consumer advocates this morning as well as some small Internet service provider executives who all say that, yes, this is a step in the right direction but they want to see the details of this agreement.  But still they were fairly encouraged that the FTC was able to or apparently able to ring some other concessions out of America Online and Time Warner.  Again, a decision out of the FTC is expected probably within an hour to an hour and a half from now. 

 Bill, Susan, back to you. 

 TUCKER:  All right, Greg, don`t go away, we`re going to leave you standing in the cold outside the Federal Trade Commission for a little bit longer. 

 LISOVICZ:  And in the meantime, we`ll bring in Michael Kopinski a media analyst with A.G. Edwards who`s been following the story and the stocks for months now. 

 Hi, Michael. 

 MICHAEL KOPINSKI, A.G. EDWARDS:  Hi, good morning. 

 LISOVICZ:   How critical was this 11th hour concession from the two companies to open up the cable lines to even more competitors to getting this deal done? 

 KOPINSKI:  Well, I think that everyone pretty much in the analyst community expected that we were going to have some sort of concession on the open access issue so it`s been widely expected from at least the analyst community. 

 LISOVICZ:  But it had been dragging on for a quite a while, hasn`t it? I mean this deal took a lot - has been taking a lot longer than had been initially voiced. 

 KOPINSKI:  Right.  It has been.  In fact, there was some concern whether or not this deal was going to be done in the timeframe that the company initially expected by the year-end and even they were giving guidance to say that it might slip into the January timeframe.  So it did take longer than expected. 

 CLARKIN:  Michael, hi.  Greg Clarkin here.  I know Wall Street is pretty favorable on this deal.  Is there anything out of the FTC that could come today that would cause you to change your opinion or maybe sour you on the deal?  Is there anything that could be that dramatic?  Any kind of concessions that the companies may have agreed to? 

 KOPINSKI:  I would be concerned a little bit if the company had to make some concession on their content, whether or not that content had to be distributed to other potential platforms.  That would be an area of interest to me to focus on.  But I don`t think that that is going to be the case.  I think that there are - there aren`t any anti-trust issues regarding the content side of the company. 

 TUCKER:  How important is that - the content - though you raise it and it certainly was a very controversial subject and the executives at AOL/Time Warner had big problems with it.  And I`m curious to get your take on it as a media analyst and somebody who stands outside these companies?  I`d like your thoughts on that. 

 KOPINSKI:   Well you hope that the content is viewed as a proprietary product and that - that you don`t really necessarily have to offer that to your competitors.  I feel that this regulatory review is probably, if you want my own personal view about it, is that it`s gone a little bit too far. I mean certainly you have competitors using this potential merger, trying to gain a competitive edge against Time Warner and AOL whereas there is no anti-competitive issue at least for now.  So right now when you have our regulators, the FTC, trying to judge what the future is going to look like and try to establish competitive environment, in my view, right now there is no issue regarding anti-competitive behavior regarding the open access part - portion of the business. 

 So I believe that the AOL/Time Warner executives are going to try to get this deal done and are willing to do concessions.  But I find it interesting that in a Bush administration we may not have had to gone through these type of regulatory views or secondly if Time Warner were to have bought AOL instead of the reverse we still - we may not have gone through all these issues as well. 

 CLARKIN:  And, Michael, let`s assume this deal goes through with some of the concessions that are reported.  Where does this really leave Time Warner and America On-Line`s competitors, for that matter, if this deal goes through as expected? 

 KOPINSKI:  Well, I think that it offers the potential for the - I suppose you`re talking about in terms of open access or just talking about like the Disneys (URL: http://www.disney.com/) or the Viacoms (URL: http://www.viacom.com/) of the world? 

 CLARKIN:  Disneys and Viacoms of the world. 

 KOPINSKI:  Well, I think that it really does reshape the map and I think that Disneys and Viacoms are probably out there looking and trying to decide what they need to do to become larger and to scale their platforms as well.  So I believe that you`re probably seeing further consolidation in this industry among the content providers and looking for additional platforms like the Internet, like AOL has done for Time Warner. 

 TUCKER:  Michael, thanks for agreeing to come on.  Appreciate your time. 

 Michael Kopinski, he`s the media analyst at A.G. Edwards out there in St. Louis. 

 KOPINSKI:  You`re welcome. 

 LISOVICZ:  And when we come back the government is looking into another big merger. 

 TUCKER:  And California`s energy crunch gets a short-term solution from the federal government; we`ll have that story as well. 

 LISOVICZ:  And in our segment "Seeking Safety," we`ll talk with David Tice, portfolio manager of the Prudent Bear Fund.  All ahead on IN THE MONEY. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 TUCKER:  All right, a "Wake-Up Call" to charities this holiday season. Check your state tax laws.  A Grinch-like tax man - I thought they were all Grinch-like - in Grand Junction, Colorado, says Boy Scout Troop 303 must stop selling Christmas trees or pay taxes on the proceeds.  Why? Because the state law there allows 12 days of tax-free sales by non-profit groups but the scouts have been selling their trees for 13 days.  Scoutmaster has a solution though.  He says his boys are going to give away the rest of the trees instead of dealing with the tax issues. And, you know, it may raise a question in some people`s mind about the Girl Scout cookies in which interesting there, Susan, is they have a little sweet loophole, which you probably know. 

 LISOVICZ:  Yes, because they - those cookies are considered groceries and are tax exempt and perhaps they just had better tax advice and were able to - because they make a bundle and they sell a lot longer than 13 days. 

 TUCKER:  A lot more than 13 days.  They can sell edible trees, then you could do that. 

 LISOVICZ:  All right-y.  The Justice Department has opened an investigation of General Electric`s (URL: http://www.ge.com/) $45 billion bid for Honeywell International (URL: http://www.honeywell.com/) .  The probe could be a signal but the deal will face a tougher view, however, an evaluation by Defense Department Task Force has not identified competitive issues that would derail the purchase. And a Honeywell spokesman says he does not expect any hurdles to the deal. 

 TUCKER:  Well it took some political power to get California some electrical power to avert the need for rolling blackouts.  U.S. Energy Secretary, Bill Richardson, has ordered electricity suppliers in the Northwest to sell electricity to California at a fair price. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 BILL RICHARDSON, U.S. ENERGY SECRETARY:  The Department of Energy can and will set the rate for the power sold into the independent system`s operator by the generators that are currently unwilling to sell into California. While I ensure that the generators receive a fair return, I will not allow them unjustly profit due to current market conditions. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 TUCKER:  Well, the move appears to have averted the immediate threat of rolling blackouts in the Golden State due to power shortages.  The state`s power system grid managers say things look better for the rest of the week. 

 LISOVICZ:  Well, now that the presidential decision is out of the way, Wall Street can focus on other factors, earnings warnings and an economy that appears to be growing much more slowly. 

 TUCKER:  Oh, yeah, and what about that Santa Claus rally.  We`ll find out about all of that in a minute.  Senator Joe Lieberman is speaking on the floor of the Senate right now.  Let`s listen in. 

 (JOINED IN PROGESS) 

 SEN. JOE LIEBERMAN (D), CONNECTICUT:  . seem to be taking a little bit longer than normal this year.  It is December 14 and the 106th Congress is surprisingly still in session.  But happily that allows me to come to the Senate Chamber, this great American Forum, which I love and respect so much and reflect on the extraordinary opportunity Vice President Al Gore gave to me when he asked me to be his running mate this year.  Mr. President, when I accepted the nomination of my party at its convention in Las Angeles in August, I began by asking is America a great country or what? 

 Last night we ended that remarkable journey in a disappointing way but nevertheless, I want to answer my question this morning by declaring, yes, America is a great country.  And let me offer, for my colleagues, just a few of the reasons why I feel that way today. 

 Mr. President, in selecting me, a Jewish-American, to be his running mate, Vice President Gore did what no Presidential Candidate before him had done. That required personal courage and confidence in the American people and today we can look back and say that the Vice President`s confidence was totally justified.  The fact is that while my faith was the focus of much of the earlier - early media reaction to my candidacy, it was not even mentioned at the end of the campaign.  And that is the way we had all hoped it would be.  And that`s good news, not just for me, but I think for all Americans because it`s a fulfillment of the promise that America makes to its citizens that in this country, no matter who you are or where you start, you should be able to go as far as your God given talents and individual determination will take you. 

 The absence of bigotry in this campaign and the fact that the Vice President and I received the second highest number of votes in the history of American national elections should, I think, encourage every parent in this country to dream the biggest dreams for each and everyone of their children.  Anything is possible for anyone in America. 

 In the five weeks since Election Day because this turned out to be closed election in American history our nation`s greatness was tested in a different way.  But, I`m confident that in the end our election process can only be made stronger by this experience.  For one thing it opened our eyes to some overlooked problems with our system of voting to the disparities in technologies and practices that may be stopping a significant numbers of voters from having their votes counted.  And that in particular may be undermining the electoral rights of many poor and minority citizens. Those problems call out for bipartisan investigation and reform. 

 Mr. President, whether you are happy or sad with the results of the 2000 Election, I do think that every one of us should be grateful this morning that here, in America, we work out our differences not with civil wars but with spirited elections.  We resolve our disputes not through acts of violence, but through the rule of law, and we preserve and protect our system of justice best when we accept its judgments that we disagree with most.  This election is over and I congratulate Governor Bush and Secretary Cheney and with them well. 

 Mr. President I had the opportunity to do that personally in a very cordial conversation this morning with the Vice President-elect, Secretary Dick Cheney.  As Vice President Gore said eloquently last night, "It is time now for all of us to come together and support of these United States and the shared values that have long sustained us." 

 Governor Bush and Secretary Cheney are in my prayers, as I know they are in the prayers of all Americans.  As they begin now to assume the awesome responsibilities that go with leadership of this great country. 

 In the strong words and soft voices they both used last night, Vice President Gore and Governor Bush raised us all up and pointed us toward the reconciliation that our history expects and that our national interest now requires.  As they both noted last night this was the closest election we`ve every experienced with a vote for president essentially ending in a tie.  The Senate split 50/50 and the House nearly even as well.  That puts a special burden, not just on Governor Bush, but on all of us here in Congress to work on a bipartisan basis and in a cooperative spirit. 

 Mr. President as I have in the past I fully intend to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle.  And with President-elect Bush to find that constructive consensus without which we will not help the American people realize their potential. 

 For my family and me this campaign has been a thrilling and joyful experience.  It is deep in the appreciation we have for the goodness of the American people and the love and loyalty we feel for this country. We could not have asked for a more warm, open, and accepting reception as we traveled around this blessed land.  We could not have been more impressed with the common sense and strong values that unite our very diverse citizenry.  And from their government that became clear to me over and over again most of them - most of the American people want only a little help every now and then as they work so hard to make their lives better. And that is exactly what we together should do for them. 

 Mr. President the most powerful emotion that I feel on this morning after is gratitude.  Grateful to be an American.  Proud to be an American. Grateful to my wife, Hadassa (ph), my love and my partner for the devoted support she gave me and the extraordinary way she reached out to everyone she met in the campaign.  Grateful to our dear children and mothers and sisters and brothers and relatives and friends whose help and love sustained us. 

 Grateful to Tipper and the Gore children for being such genuine and generous friends.  And for the skill and grace with which they conducted themselves in this campaign.  Grateful to the Gore/Lieberman campaign staff whose idealism, ability, and hard work make me optimistic about America`s future.  Grateful to my Senate staff, here in Washington and back home in Hartford.  They have served with me on behalf of the people of Connecticut for so many years and continue to do so with such commitment during this eventful and unusual year. 

 Grateful to the people of Connecticut who support over the past 30 years has put me in a position where Al Gore could give me the extraordinary opportunity he did this year.  I`m grateful to the people of Connecticut without who`s backing this year I would not now have the privilege of looking forward to six more years of service to them and with you my colleagues as United States Senator. 

 My greatest gratitude is to Vice President Gore himself.  He has been my friend and colleague for 15 years now.  But, I have never been prouder of him than I was this year and than I was last night.  He conducted the campaign with dignity.  He presented his policies and programs with conviction.  He spoke with a precision that showed respect for the American people.  He stuck to the record and he worked hard, very hard. 

 Al Gore ran this campaign as he lives his life with honor, intelligence, and devotion.  Today the Vice President can look back on 24 years of public service with great pride in his accomplishments and he can look forward to the years ahead with great excitement about the unlimited opportunities that await him. 

 I wish him God speed and I look forward to his continued friendship. 

 Mr. President, the Vice President knows as I do on this morning that Psalm 30 assures us that weeping may linger for the night, but in the morning there are shouts of joy.  So, today as some of us weep for what could have been we look to the future with faith that on another morning joy will surely come. 

 I thank my colleagues in the Senate from both parties for their warm personal wishes and support during the last five months.  I look forward now to returning to this chamber in January and working with all of you to help improve the lives of the American people and to help elevate their respect for the institutions of our great democracy. 

 Mr. President, I again thank my friend and colleague from New Mexico for yielding me the time.  I thank the Chair and I yield the floor. 

 UNIDENTIFIED SENATOR:   We are all very proud of the Senator from Connecticut. 

 TUCKER:  You have been listening to remarks by Senator Joe Lieberman, the vice presidential candidate of the Democratic Party as he addressed the Senate in session on the floor. 

 Once again, it struck me is that as we continue to get an emotional tone in this speech is suggesting perhaps that perhaps that`s necessary to heal whatever kind of hurt that may have been sustained in this very divisive and bitter contest... 

 LISOVICZ:  Exactly. 

 TUCKER:  . which both candidates last night, Gore and Bush, so elegantly tried to end by saying it`s time now to pull together instead of side our differences.  And we have heard that again from the Senator Lieberman. 

 LISOVICZ:  Yes.  Actually, I put he struck a very, very positive tone. It pains to say that anything is possible for anyone in the United States. He did, of course, also voice the need for bipartisan support to amend some of the changes that need to be ... 

 TUCKER:  Wasting no time, wasting no time to offer... 

 UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT:   . made in our next electoral process. 

 TUCKER:  We`ve got Les Alperstein standing by in Washington and we are going to go get his thoughts on the speech.  But, before we do that we need to pay a couple of bills.  We will be right back after the commercial. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 TUCKER:  All right, welcome back.  Let`s go down to Washington.  Les Alperstein is standing by.  Les from Washington Analysis has been with us throughout this five weeks.  It`s fitting that he`s with us today as we begin to hit the periods in the final sentences in this particular chapter. 

 Les, welcome. 

 LES ALPERSTEIN, WASHING ANALYSIS:  Good morning once again. 

 TUCKER:  Once again, good morning, Les.  I`m curious, I`d like your reaction to the speech by Senator Lieberman in the Senate. 

 ALPERSTEIN:  Well, I thought it was terrific, very gracious, humble. I think listening to him it made you realize why so many people felt during the campaign that Al Gore made a very courageous choice when he picked the first Jewish person to be vice president. And he impressed a great many people and continues to do so.  It was a good outgoing speech and something to really bring the congress together.  That`s what he was really trying to do here. 

 LISOVICZ:  And so, Les, you would say these three for three now with President Elect Bush and Vice President Gore, hitting the right tones that they need to - in order to get things done in the next four years? 

 ALPERSTEIN:  Absolutely. They`re all saying the right thing.  The question is whether after the dust settles whether the conservatives in the Republican Party and the Democrats who have their eye on the 2002 election - that`s just two years away.  They`re already going to start campaigning. And then again, the four years presidential election - whether or not they will kind of tone down the usual partisan rhetoric and gamesmanship. 

 TUCKER: Yeah, talk is cheap, as they say.  And the proof would be in the doing.  How does he do - how does President Elect Bush do that, Les?  It seems to be easier said than done. 

 ALPERSTEIN:  Well, from what I`ve seen of him, I think they`ve got a pretty good game plan to do a Clinton, if you will.  I think George Bush is going to reach across the isle and make deals with the moderate and conservative Democrats in rapid succession, roll out some bipartisan pieces of legislation, to jump-start the whole process and show that he really can unite the Congress, if not the country.  He`ll roll out an education bill and it will be fairly simple and bipartisan, noncontroversial. Then he will roll out a prescription drug plan, but only for poor senior citizens, and then set up a commission to study the whole Medicare drug benefit issue.  He`ll come up with a smaller text plan than he did a year ago and throughout the campaign.  As you know, that was his centerpiece of his campaign.  It`ll be a smaller one, one that`s already past one or both houses of congress, with marriage penalty and estate taxes and things like that.  And I think he`ll get off to a pretty good start. 

 LISOVICZ:  But you know, Les, you touched upon the smaller tax plan and there`s, perhaps, one thing that the Texas governor didn`t count on, and that is an economy that is slowing much more rapidly than a lot of people have anticipated.  So, how difficult is it for him coming in with a totally different environment in terms of the economy, in the perception, the wealth perception, the stock market and the fact that the economy is really grinding down? 

 ALPERSTEIN:  Well, that`s certainly going to be interesting, because it is grinding down, as you say. And nobody knows how far we`re going to grind down, whether we`re going to have a soft landing or a hard landing.  But there is an irony to this because when he proposed his huge tax plan last year, $1.3 trillion, we were growing five to seven percent.  And many economists in the government and certainly in the private sector and including Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, thought that that was over the top, that that kind of tax plan was inappropriate with the economy growing so fast.  But today, it would seem like a proper fiscal policy to adopt a tax policy that would be counter cyclical and actually help the economy smooth out. 

 TUCKER:  Yeah.  It is wonderfully ironic, isn`t it?  Because in his speech last night, taxes, which had always been at the top of his list of things to get down, found it so down at the bottom as he tried to work through issues where he knows he has bipartisan support. 

 ALPERSTEIN:  Right. 

 TUCKER: And ironically, he may have full bipartisan support on stimulating the economy with a tax cut. 

 ALPERSTEIN:  That`s right, especially if he leaves the across the board tax cut off the table, come back to that later.  That was the controversial part.  Marriage penalty has agreed to, by Democrats as well as Republicans, state tax - the death tax, so to speak, is also bipartisan and there`s IRAs, pensions, other kinds of credits for college education and things like that that could pass, I think, pretty easily. 

 TUCKER:  Les, thanks, as always.  Les Alperstein of Washington Analysis. 

 ALPERSTEIN:  Nice being here again. 

 TUCKER:  Thanks. 

 LISOVICZ:  And now, let`s talk to a man who certainly can talk about the perception from Wall Street, and that is Dan Veru, portfolio manager of Palisade Capital Management. 

 Welcome, thanks for hanging around. 

 DAN VERU, PORTFOLIO MANAGER, PALISADE CAPITAL MANAGEMENT:  My pleasure. 

 LISOVICZ:  How important is it, these speeches, these very conciliatory speeches that we`ve heard over the last 18 hours or so? Everyone`s giving them high marks.   Does it help the street at all? 

 VERU:  Yeah.  I think it`s very important. I think the psychology of the market - on the margin, we don`t like uncertainty in the stock market so we`ve taken away now the election uncertainty.  The next shift is going to be towards the Federal Reserve and what their response is going to be to the slowing economy. The CEOs that we poll have unilaterally said that business is far slower than they anticipated and they cannot pass on at the same time price increases through, which is another dynamic.  Now, I think the Federal Reserve is in one of the rare instances where they`re actually behind the curve on this.  So, they`re going to have to, in my opinion, not only move the bias but actually take action now. 

 TUCKER:  So, you think it`s going to happen in the next when there ... 

 VERU:  I think there`s a better chance because the anecdotal information is this economy is decelerating at a rapid rate. 

 LISOVICZ:  OK.  We`ll leave it at that.  Dan Veru, portfolio manager of Palisade Capital Management.  Thanks so much for your thoughts. 

 VERU:  Thank you. 

 TUCKER:  Thanks, Dan. 

 Still to come on IN THE MONEY, specialty retailer Bed Bath & Beyond (URL: http://www.bedbath.com/) profits rose in the third quarter. 

 LISOVICZ:  What can it expect in the midst of the holiday shopping season? When we return we`ll take a look at Bed Bath & Beyond, our "Stock of the Day." 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 TUCKER:  All right, specialty retailer Bed Bath & Beyond said late yesterday that it earned 14 cents a share, right in line with what the street was expecting.  Sales grew 25 percent to $609 million.  The latest results mark the 34th consecutive quarter of Bed Bath & Beyond meeting or beating earnings estimates.  Does that sell you on the company stock? 

 Bed Bath & Beyond is our "Stock of the Day." 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 TUCKER (voice-over):  The name says it all.  Bed Bath & Beyond is the nation`s largest domestic products in home furnishings retailer.  It operates more than 300 stores with more than 12 million total square feet of retailing space.  Eighty new stores are slated for next year. It`s built its success on allowing each store manager to experiment with new inventory and displays.  The company does little advertising and saves money by having its vendors ship merchandise directly to its stores. The company`s potential to dominate the $70 billion home accessories sector is immense.  Half of the major markets in the United States still do not have a Bed Bath & Beyond store.  Sales are expected to top $3 billion by 2002. The recent slowdown in sales at retailers has not forced Bed Bath & Beyond to boost its low-key promotional activity to achieve sales growth.  And it hasn`t chased away investors either. Shares of Bed Bath & Beyond are up 24 percent this year. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 TUCKER:  All right, and there`s a quick look at what the stock is doing today.  Ironically, not acting positively to the good news. Instead, selling down a modest 25 cents. 

 LISOVICZ:  For more on Bed Bath & Beyond, let`s speak with an analyst who follows the company.  Ralph Jean is the Senior Research Analyst with First Union Securities and joins us now from Baltimore. 

 Welcome to IN THE MONEY. 

 RALPH JEAN, RESEARCH ANALYST, FIRST UNION SECURITIES:  Thank you. 

 LISOVICZ:  Hey, Ralph, you know this isn`t an easy time for retailers. But Bed Bath & Beyond continues to build, open new stores aggressively. You like the stock? 

 JEAN:  I do very much.  And I think there`s three key reasons why the company continues to do very well.  One, as you mentioned in your piece, store managers are very strong.  The company`s known as being very great operators, and that includes the store manager being able to order inventory and have total control over the P&L.  So, they really are in touch with the competition.  Secondly, they`re doing something that Wal*Mart (URL: http://www.wal-mart.com/) did very well, and that`s a commitment to the productivity loop. As they grow, their buying power increases and they pass on those savings to their customers rather than increasing their margins.  And that provides greater value. And then lastly, I think, directly related to that, they`re taking market share from primarily department stores with greater depth and breadth of selection at sharper price points. 

 LISOVICZ:  So, you think this stock is well positioned for the downturn that we are seeing?  There are plenty of companies that said they`re just not prepared for the slowdown as quickly as it has been occurring. 

 JEAN:  I do.  I think they`re well positioned in the consumer`s mind as a destination location for if you`re going to do anything to a room in your home, whether it`s remodeling or just making it - giving it a fresh new look, you think of Bed Bath & Beyond or Linens `n Things (URL: http://www.lnthings.com/) as a destination location for that. Also, their square footage is going to grow 20 to 23 percent next year. They`ll generate positive comps and, as a result, get operating leverage.  So, I think they`ll grow their earnings at least 25 percent per year.  And that`s a recipe for a specialty growth retailer. 

 LISOVICZ:  OK. Ralph Jean, senior research analyst with First Union Securities, joining us from Baltimore.  Thanks so much. 

 JEAN:  Thank you. 

 LISOVICZ:  Now that you`ve heard all about Bed Bath & Beyond, head on down to the bottom of our homepage at CNNfn.com, or go to AOL-TV to vote on whether you think we should add Bed Bath & Beyond to our IN THE MONEY portfolio. 

 As for what you thought of yesterday`s "Stock of the Day," Amgen (URL: http://www.amgen.com/) , you liked Amgen`s plan ... 

 TUCKER:  Look at that. 

 LISOVICZ:  ... to buy back shares and introduce new products.  Sixty nine percent of you voted buy so we are going to buy $1,000 of the biotech`s firm shares and add it to our IN THE MONEY portfolio.  And we haven`t had a buy in a while, have we? 

 TUCKER:  No, we haven`t, as a matter of fact.  We added Home Depot (URL: http://www.homedepot.com/) , which Robin Ardelli (ph) came on and sold the stock to the viewers and they decided they liked it.  Amgen, I think, that stock buyback did it. 

 LISOVICZ:  All right, there you go. 

 When we return, 36 days after election day, the country has a new president-elect. 

 TUCKER:  And when we come back, Bill Dorman will have the details on the concession and acceptance speeches. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 TUCKER:  Now, for the latest on what President-elect George W. Bush and outgoing Vice President Al Gore are up to. 

 LISOVICZ:  Here`s Bill Dorman. 

 TUCKER:  You got it. 

 BILL DORMAN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT:  You know, it`s been a while. 

 TUCKER:  It has been. 

 DORMAN:  Now it`s moving along and now the pace is going to have to pick up a bit.  Because of the whole prolonged election process and how long that takes, George W.  Bush has had little time - now has little time remaining to assemble his cabinet and his White House staff. 

 Now, for more on these tasks, we go to CNN`s Tony Clark in Austin - Tony. 

 TONY CLARK, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Bill, it is expected to be a very busy first full day for the president elect.  Right now, he`s at the mansion. 

 Earlier today, he got his intelligence briefing from the CIA and then he attended what is, at this point, the only public event today.  It was a prayer service at the Tarrytown United Methodist Church here in Austin, a chance to be with friends and family in church.  He went around, shook hands, hugged some of his staff members, supporters and friends. The service itself focused primarily on bringing the country together, reconciliation.  There was a prayer of reconciliation, prayers for Vice President Gore and his family, Senator Lieberman and his family, as well as President-elect Bush and Vice President-elect Cheney and their families. 

 One of the - a song that was written especially for the service said "Come let us reason together, heal the hurt inside," and so the entire thrust was for a president-elect who could bring this divided country together, the sort of thing that we assume right now he is trying to do as he works at his governor`s mansion.  We assume he`s working on transition.  He`s expected to go to Washington over the weekend and meet with President Clinton on Tuesday and Vice President Gore on Tuesday.  And then that`s also where his running mate Dick Cheney is at the transition office, expected to get the office to the federal transition office and federal funds a little bit later this afternoon - Bill. 

 DORMAN:  Tony, as you mentioned, we know the early part of next week he comes to Washington and meets with Vice President Gore, and you mentioned President Clinton as well. Any idea in terms of when we may hear something in terms of some of the appointments, how long that process may take? 

 CLARK:  Well, you know, at the time that it was thought that then Governor Bush would win back in November, they were planned to roll out names almost immediately.  But then, things have obviously slowed down because of the election battle in Florida. We`re excepting to hear some, perhaps, White House staff members in the next day or so and indications he may want to wait until he gets to Washington to roll out names of cabinet members. We have been hearing for weeks now names like Colin Powell for secretary of state, Condoleeza Rice for national security advisor, Larry Lindsey for some kind of economics post in a Bush White House.  But as for specifics, we still haven`t heard them and nothing is scheduled for today. 

 DORMAN:  OK, Tony Clark in Austin.  Thanks very much. 

 Well, Vice President Gore appealed for unity last night, told his supporters he would continue to fight the good fight.  For more on Gore`s exit from the White House scene, we`re joined by CNN`s Patty Davis in Washington. 

 Patty, good morning. 

 PATTY DAVIS, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Good morning, Bill.  More talk of unity this morning from Gore`s vice presidential running mate Joe Lieberman. He was on the senate floor about a half hour ago.  He was congratulating Texas Governor George Bush now as the president elect, also Dick Cheney, and he`s saying Vice President Al Gore as well and wished him well. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 SEN. JOE LIEBERMAN (D), CONNECTICUT:  Al Gore ran this campaign as he lives his life, with honor, intelligence and devotion.  Today, the vice president can look back on 24 years of public service with great pride in his accomplishments and he can look forward to the years ahead with great excitement about the unlimited opportunities that await him. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 DAVIS:  Senator Lieberman, of course, has a job.  He`s a U.S. Senator, will continue to be one.  Just what is up for the vice president, however? Will he run in 2004?  As he came out of the old executive office building yesterday in Washington after that concession speech, supporters were cheering him on.  Some signs "Gore In `04".  No word on that though from the vice president himself. 

 He does say though that he is likely, at least for his immediate future, take some time off, go to Tennessee, basically "mend fences", he said. He owns a farm in Carthage, Tennessee.  Mend fences, both literally and figuratively.  Of course, he lost Tennessee in the election.  It cost him dearly - Bill. 

 DORMAN:  All right. Patty Davis in Washington.  Thanks, Patty. 

 Well, that is that that politics first, by the way, father-son succession on the presidency since ... 

 LISOVICZ:  John Quincy Adams. 

 TUCKER:  John Quincy Adams. 

 DORMAN:  There you go. 

 LISOVICZ:  And John Adams. 

 TUCKER: And what was notable about John Quincy Adams?  His son.  He was a one-time president. 

 DORMAN:  We`ll see. 

 TUCKER:  We`ll see. 

 LISOVICZ:  We`ll see if history repeats. 

 TUCKER:  We`ll see what happens. 

 LISOVICZ: Still to come, who says that bears always hibernate in winter? 

 TUCKER:  We got plenty of human variety around these days, including portfolio manager David Tice.  But he`s a proven bear. 

 We`ll be right back. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 TUCKER:  All right, in this volatile market we`re trying to help you find some stable investments and look around for opportunities in our segment "Seeking Safety."  Today, we`re going to take a look at a bear fund. That is a fund where the majority of the holdings are short positions, meaning the fund manager expects to profit by seeing stocks in the portfolio lose value.  Boy, would you have done well in this market or what?  We`re focusing today on the Prudent Bear Fund.  And as you can see by looking at that screen, he probably looks a little different from your portfolio results.  Prudent Bear is up 35 percent.  Let`s call it against the rest of the market, which is pretty much flat.  The fund performing well above the major market averages. 

 Joining us now to talk about the Prudent Bear Fund is the man who runs it himself, David Tice. 

 David, it`s good to see you. 

 DAVID TICE, PORTFOLIO MANAGER, PRUDENT BEAR FUND:  Good to see you, Bill. 

 TUCKER:  Welcome.  You done well.  But we should tell people right up front this is a risky approach to the market and if you look at your fund on a year over year basis you`re probably - a 12 month basis, you`re down about nine percent. 

 TICE:  Right. 

 TUCKER:  But you thrive in the kind of environment that we`ve really been seeing since March. 

 TICE:  That`s true, Bill. And we are considered a risky fund. However, when you compare it and you combine it with other investment classes, you combine it with the fact that you own your home, you might own some other stocks, it`s actually a risk reduction strategy. 

 LISOVICZ:  So, it`s a diversified portfolio as well as ... 

 TICE:  Well, it`s not only diversified but it reduces the risk.  It essentially takes money off the equity table. And, therefore, if you have $200,000 long and you have $50,000 in a Prudent Bear Fund, our gains will offset their losses. 

 TUCKER:  And I want to go to a graph, David, because we don`t have a lot -much time.  But we`ve got a graphic here and it looks very confusing. It`s from the Elliott Wave Dot folks, Elliott Wave Theory. The point of this graph is that the normal trading range of this market is way down there in the left hand corner of your screen.  We are way up in the right hand corner, David, which means you`re looking for a lot more declines. You don`t think this is done yet. 

 TICE:  No.  We believe that this market can decline easily another 50 to 70 percent.  I`d like to thank the people at ElliottWave.com who put together this graph.  We think it graphically depicts how dramatically overvalued this market is.  And although this market`s down a fair amount, the Nasdaq being down 50 percent, we got to such an outrageously valued level, it can fall a long way. 

 LISOVICZ: And so, what is your criteria in picking the stocks that go in your fund? 

 TICE:  Well, we have a team of 12 analysts and we look at balance sheets, footnotes, income statements.  We talk to competitors and we analyze companies.  We look at how these companies are doing relative to expectations and if they`re likely to disappoint investors in the future. 

 LISOVICZ: And also the price of the stock to begin with. 

 TICE:  Exactly.  The price of the stock`s very important.  However, it all comes back to fundamentals. 

 TUCKER:  And you do like some stocks.  About 15, 20 percent of your fund is long, right? 

 TICE:  Yes. 

 TUCKER:  What is the sector that you like?  What`s your favorite sector at the moment? 

 TICE:  Well, we really like gold and silver mining companies.  We do believe that the U.S. dollar is going to have problems.  We also like some defense contractors and also some energy companies. 

 TUCKER: David, we`re out of time, unfortunately.  There`s a graph of the Prudent Bear Fund, which if you owned it would look very attractive. 

 LISOVICZ:  Yeah. 

 TUCKER:  Thanks, David.  Appreciate you coming by. 

 TICE: Glad to be here. 

 LISOVICZ: David Tice waited a long time for this moment. 

 TUCKER:  He did and he deserves a little moment in the sun. 

 That does it for today`s edition of IN THE MONEY.  I`m Bill Tucker. 

 LISOVICZ:  And I`m Susan Lisovicz.  Thanks for joining us. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc.  ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by eMediaMillWorks, Inc.  (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.)  No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document ithm000020010807dwce0009d
?
 

Stock Markets
 Financial Post Investing 
 Wall Street's early rally ends in slump: Technology sector fears 

Financial Post, with files from news services
1,230 words
14 December 2000
National Post
FINP
National
D02
English
 (c) National Post 2000. All Rights Reserved. 

 Technology stocks in the United States fell yesterday as an early relief rally on the expected end of the five-week legal fight for the presidency gave way to concerns about the tech sector's growth prospects. 

 Stocks shot higher at the open, but the gains faded through the trading day, leaving the Nasdaq composite index with a drop of 109 points, or 3.7%, to 2822.81. The Dow Jones industrial average managed to post a modest gain of 26.17 points, or 0.2%, to 10,794.44, while the benchmark Standard & Poor's 500 index shed 11.19 points, or 0.8%, to close at 1359.99. 

 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT/NASDAQ) was hit by a downgrade from investment house Prudential Securities, dropping US$1 1/8 to US$57 1/4. 

 Compaq Computer Corp. (CPQ/NYSE), the world's No. 1 personal computer maker, fell US$2.67, or nearly 13%, to US$18.10 after warning after Tuesday's closing bell that it would miss quarterly sales and profit targets due to decreased demand. 

 Sun Microsystems Inc. (SUNW/NASDAQ) fell US$2 1/8 to US$31 3/4. 

 Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was 1.19 billion shares, compared with 1.08 billion on Tuesday. 

 --- 

 Toronto stocks finished sharply lower for the second straight session as rumours that Nortel Networks Corp. will miss its fourth-quarter numbers persisted. 

 The Toronto Stock Exchange 300 composite index fell 244.85 points, or 2.6%, to 9098.12. Meanwhile, the S&P/TSE 60 index closed down 14.36 points, or 2.6%, to 537.41. 

 Contributing to unusually large volume on the TSE was trading in Mackenzie Financial Corp. (MKF/TSE). About 49 million shares were sold by a mutual fund and then bought back for tax purposes. 

 All but one of the TSE's 14 stock groups fell. The industrial products group dropped 5.8%, with Nortel (NT/TSE) falling $3.70 to $55.55. Nortel contributed 122 points -- or almost half-- of the TSE 300's decline. 

 Fibre-optics equipment company JDS Uniphase Corp. (JDU/TSE) fell $4.05 to $100, wireless Internet device maker Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM/TSE) dropped $12.25 to $135 and electronics manufacturing services company Celestica Inc. (CLS/TSE) lost $7.60 to $89.50. 

 The banking group dropped 0.6%, with Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce (CM/TSE) falling 70 cents to $46, and Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS/TSE) losing 25 cents to $41.85. Royal Bank of Canada (RY/TSE) bucked the trend, gaining $1.05 to $48. 

 The lone gainer was the utilities group, in which BCE Inc. (BCE/TSE) was the big gainer, closing up $1.10 to $44.10. 

 Volume on the TSE was 260.6 million shares, compared with 151.7 million on Tuesday. The Canadian Venture Exchange index dropped 8.9 points, or 0.3%, to 2903.98. 

 CANADIAN STOCKS: 

 Net           %   52W      52W 

 Index      Close     chg     chg     high     low 

 TSE 300      9098.12 -244.85   -2.62 11401.97 7857.10 

 TSE 200       490.96   -4.56   -0.92   551.66  435.38 

 TSE 100       563.33  -16.43   -2.83   717.25  483.08 

 S&P/TSE 60    537.41  -14.36   -2.60   698.58  466.02 

 Toronto 35    563.23  -16.66   -2.87   610.98  449.76 

 CDNX Index   2903.98   -8.91   -0.31  4526.06 2130.12 

 --Yr over yr--    --Yr to date-- 

 Index      net chg   % chg   net chg % chg 

 TSE 300     +1108.21  +13.87 +684.37    +8.13 

 TSE 200       +49.32  +11.17  +27.71    +5.98 

 TSE 100       +70.73  +14.36  +44.28    +8.53 

 S&P/TSE 60    +63.12  +13.31  +41.55    +8.38 

 Toronto 35   +105.96  +23.17  +83.07   +17.30 

 CDNX Index   +740.67  +34.24 +566.53   +24.24 

 U.S. STOCKS: 

 Net            %    52W      52W 

 Index        Close     chg     chg      high     low 

 DJIA          10794.44  +26.17    +0.24 11750.28 9654.64 

 S&P 500        1359.99  -11.19    -0.82  1552.87 1294.90 

 NYSE Comp.      653.30   -1.70    -0.26   681.19  575.01 

 Nasdaq Comp.   2822.77 -109.00    -3.72  5132.52 2523.04 

 --Yr over yr--    --Yr to  date-- 

 Index        net chg   % chg   net chg  % chg 

 DJIA           -398.15   -3.56  -702.68    -6.11 

 S&P 500         -55.23   -3.90  -109.27    -7.44 

 NYSE Comp.      +16.79   +2.64    +3.00    +0.46 

 Nasdaq Comp.   -835.40  -22.84 -1246.56   -30.63 

 FINANCIAL POST INDEXES: 

 Net          %  52W     52W 

 Index        Close     chg    chg     high    low 

 FPX Growth     1831.92 -25.44   -1.37 2054.20 1695.55 

 FPX Balanced   1736.90 -15.22   -0.87 1873.58 1594.47 

 FPX Income     1651.43  -9.53   -0.57 1740.75 1475.25 

 --Yr over yr--   --Yr to date-- 

 Index        net chg   % chg  net chg % chg 

 FPX Growth     +124.81  +7.31  +71.15   +4.04 

 FPX Balanced   +129.83  +8.08  +95.67   +5.83 

 FPX Income     +167.59 +11.29 +147.69   +9.82 

 Chart/Graph: Bloomberg News / TSE 300 & DJIA: TSE 300, DJIA: Intraday from Dec. 12 close (ET): (See print copy, pg. D2 for complete chart/graph), Chart/Graph: CANADIAN STOCKS: TSE 300 close: (See print copy, pg. D1, for complete chart/graph.), Chart/Graph: CANADIAN STOCKS: TSE volume: weekly, millions of shares: (See print copy, pg. D1, for complete chart/graph.), Chart/Graph: CANADIAN STOCKS: Last week, this week: (See print copy, pg. D1, for complete chart/graph.), Chart/Graph: CANADIAN STOCKS: daily, millions of shares: (See print copy, pg. D1, for complete chart/graph.), Table: CANADIAN STOCKS: Index, Close, Net chg., % chg., 52W high, 52W low, Year over year net chg., Year over year % chg., Year to date net chg., Year to date % chg.: (Table ran on pg. D1): (Online), Chart/Graph: U.S. STOCKS: DJ Industrial Average close: (See print copy, pg. D1, for complete graph.), Chart/Graph: U.S. STOCKS: NYSE volume: weekly, millions of shares: (See print copy, pg. D1, for complete graph.), Chart/Graph: U.S. STOCKS: Last week, this week: (See print copy, pg. D1, for complete graph.), Chart/Graph: U.S. STOCKS: daily, millions of shares: (See print copy, pg. D1, for complete graph.), Table: U.S. STOCKS: Index, Close, Net chg., % chg., 52W high, 52W low, Year over year net chg., Year over year % chg., Year to date net chg., Year to date % chg.: (Table ran on pg. D1) (Online), Chart/Graph: FINANCIAL POST INDEXES: Balanced: (See print copy, pg. D1, for complete graph.), Chart/Graph: FINANCIAL POST INDEXES: Last week, this week: (See print copy, pg. D1, for complete graph.), Table: FINANCIAL POST INDEXES: Index, close, Net chg., % chg., 52W high, 52W low, Year over year net chg., Year over year % chg., Year to date net chg., Year to date % chg.: (Table ran on pg. D1): (Online) 

Document finp000020010806dwce01084
?
 

 FFBN Retail Wrap: Most Sectors Post Losses 

839 words
14 December 2000
12:57
Federal Filings Newswires
FF
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


ISSUER: FEDERAL FILINGS
SYMBOL: X.FFI
    (This market wrap was originally published Wednesday evening.)



        WASHINGTON (FFBN)--With the jewelry, department, discount and variety
stores segments all trading lower Thursday, the Federal Filings Retail Index
dropped 1.2%, or 93.7 points, to finish at 7738.7.
        The jewelry stores subindex fell 5.7%, or 4.2 points, to 68.87,
posting the biggest loss of the day.  Shares of Tiffany & Co. slid 6.4%, or
2.25 points, to 33.
        Also posting a loss, apparel stores declined 2%, or 11.3 points, to
543.34 as one specialty retailer issued a profit warning for the fourth
quarter.
        Shares of Claire's Stores Inc. were off by 13%, or 2.56 points, to
16.75, after the company announced that fourth quarter earnings will be
between 70 cents to 80 cents a share. Before the warning, the First
Call/Thomson Financial consensus had put earnings at $1.12 a share.
        In a statement, Claire's said it experienced a "dramatic drop" in
sales during the first two weeks of December at its Claire's and
Afterthoughts stores.
        Also in the apparel stores subindex, shares of American Eagle
Outfitters Inc. slid 7.8%, or 3.06, to 36.44; shares of Bebe Stores Inc. fell
12%, or 2.5, to 18.38; and shares of Talbots Inc. lost 4.5%, or 1.88, to
39.44.
        Elsewhere, the department stores sector dropped 2.9%, or 21.39
points, to finish at 705.49.  Shares of Sears, Roebuck Co. slipped 3.9%, or
1.39, to 34.38; Kohl's Corp.'s shares weakened 2.3%, or 1.38, to 58.31; and
May Department Store Co.'s shares were off by 3.5%, or 1.06, to 29.19.
        The variety and discount stores subindex lost 2.6%, or 79.39 points,
to finish at 3007.77, as shares of Wal-Mart Stores Inc. shed 3%, or 1.56, to
50.31.
        Also, shares of Dollar Tree Stores Inc. tumbled 8.4%, or 3.44, to
37.25, while Family Dollar Stores Inc.'s shares dropped 2.4%, or 56 cents, to
23.
        Major market measures were mixed again on Wednesday as the Dow Jones
Industrial Average gained just 26.17 points to 10,794.44 and the Nasdaq
Composite Index dropped 109 points to 2822.77. The Standard & Poor's 500
Stock Index dropped 11.2 points to 1359.98.
COMPANY NEWS:
                                              Net     Pct    EPS    EPS
                                     Close   Change  Change  01E    02E
CLAIRE'S STORES INC. (CLE)           16.75    -2.56  -13.3%  $1.81 $2.27
Claire's Stores said it expects fourth quarter earnings of 70 cents to 80
cents a share, well below analysts' earnings estimates of $1.12 a share,
because of disappointing November sales and the lack of momentum in December.
 The accessories retailer has warned of earnings shortfalls each quarter this
year. On Nov. 16 Claire's Stores had said it was comfortable with fourth
quarter projections of $1.16 a share.
Claire's Stores said it had started to see improvement in the Afterthoughts
unit, but the gains deteriorated "severely" in the last few weeks.  The
company expects Afterthoughts sales to remain weak in the first half of
fiscal 2002 as it redefines its strategy to differentiate the unit's concept
from that of Claire's stores.
JP Morgan downgraded its rating on Claire's Stores to long-term buy from buy
and PMG Capital cut its rating on the company to hold from long-term buy.
                                              Net     Pct    EPS    EPS
                                     Close   Change  Change  01E    02E
DELIA'S CORP. (DLIAD)                 1.44   +0.44  +43.75% ($1.91)($1.37)
Delia's Corp. authorized the repurchase of up to $2 million of common shares
in open-market or negotiated transactions. The company said it will fund the
buybacks with savings from recent cost-cutting initiatives in the Internet
businesses. Delia's is exploring further alternatives, including taking on
business partners for its Internet operations: Gurl.com, TheSpark.com,
SparkNotes.com and SparkMatch.com.
The company renegotiated its agreement with MarketSource, eliminating Delia's
commitment to spend $2.5 million in advertising services in 2001.
                                              Net     Pct    EPS    EPS
                                     Close   Change  Change  01E    02E
AMES DEPARTMENT STORES INC. (AMES)   1.78    Unch     Unch  ($1.03) $0.56
Ames Department Stores entered into an amendment and waiver agreement with
its lenders that waived any non-ompliance before Nov. 8, according to the
company's quarterly report filed late Tuesday with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. Ames said the amendment also reduced the line's fixed
charge coverage ratio requirements and permitted Ames to record restructuring
charges associated with closing 32 stores.
According to the filing, the covenants will now be tested quarterly rather
than monthly, as long as the company's availability remains above a specified
level.  As of Oct. 28, Ames had borrowings of $575.7 million outstanding
under the credit agreement.



07:57


Document ff00000020010806dwce02blg
?
 

 breakingviews.com: First, Bush Ought to Burst the Bubble --- A Hard Landing Would Damage U.S. Republicans Less Now Than Later --- Here's Why Depression-Era President Might Be a Better Model Than Dad 

 Edited By Hugo Dixon 
897 words
14 December 2000
The Asian Wall Street Journal
AWSJ
22
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 George W. Bush may be following in his father's footsteps in more ways than one. Not only will he likely assume the presidency, but like Bush Senior his administration would begin at the end of a period of strong economic growth. The recession of the early 1990s and Alan Greenspan's refusal to cut interest rates rapidly put paid to George Bush's chances of re-election. The son will be wary of getting caught in the same trap. 

 Already, the Bush team is distancing itself from the current state of the economy. Dick Cheney has stated that the U.S. is on the brink of a recession, while George W. Bush has referred to "warning signs." This message is reinforced by a sharp downturn in consumer confidence, the recent spate of profit warnings from corporate America and signs of a worsening credit crunch. If a hard landing is inevitable it would be better that it should occur as soon as possible, so that it isn't associated in the public's mind with the coming administration. The great precedent for this was set by Franklin Roosevelt in the winter of 1931. During the changeover period, Mr. Roosevelt provoked a run on the banks by refusing to confirm the gold standard policy. Although this policy caused both the economy and the stock market to hit rock bottom, Mr. Roosevelt went on to win three elections. 

 Of course, Mr. Bush won't do anything so radical. Yet it is in his power to cast doubt over the U.S. strong dollar policy. A collapse in the dollar would reveal many of the instabilities of the U.S. economy. The stock market would also suffer. However, a weaker dollar is an essential precondition for a balanced U.S. recovery. Mr. Bush's chief economic adviser, Lawrence Lindsey, privately concedes that U.S. has a bubble economy. He has publicly stated that the current account deficit is unsustainable and already spooked the markets with his thoughts on the dollar. Several companies, most recently Eastman Kodak, have blamed falling profit on the strong dollar. It would come as no surprise if the Bush team were to position itself as the U.S. exporters' champion. 

 Colaninno's Latest Controversy 

 Just as Telecom Italia Chief Roberto Colaninno seemed to be winning back the trust of minority investors, he has stirred up another hornet's nest among the company's nonvoting savings shareholders. 

 Mr. Colaninno doesn't appear to have broken any legal obligation by not buying back as many savings shares as he had indicated in January -- though stock market watchdog Consob has yet to rule on this. But by buying the shares back extremely slowly over the course of the year, Mr. Colaninno has irritated shareholders who thought they could count on a buyer of last resort for their shares and so provide a floor to the price. 

 Back in January, Mr. Colaninno said he would buy "up to" 34% of Telecom Italia's savings shares on the market during the year. Telecom Italia hasn't acquired anything like that amount -- and is most unlikely to either. The words "up to" are Mr. Colaninno's let-out. That and the fact that, at the time when shareholders approved the buyback program, the company agreed to various provisions designed not to destabilize the market. This, says the company, explains why it has spent less than 600 million euros ($527.3 million) instead of the 4.8 billion euros the whole package would have cost. 

 How convenient! Because Telecom Italia certainly doesn't want to dish out another 4.2 billion euros on savings shares, however cheap they may seem. Since January, it has spent 6.5 billion euros taking control of Seat Pagine Gialle, the yellow pages business now merged with Tin.it, its internet service provider. And, as a result, it doesn't have any extra cash. Debt is hovering just below the 20 billion euros Mr. Colaninno has promised not to exceed. To keep the savings shareholders happy, he would have to break another promise. 

 Last Orders 

 The Seagram wine and spirits portfolio has burst another leak. 

 This time Allied Domecq says it bought Mumm and Perrier-Jouet champagnes and will withdraw the rights of Seagram to distribute the well-known brands. At the same time it said it had withdrawn from the auction for the Seagram's business because it had cherry-picked the brands it wanted in the portfolio -- the champagnes and Captain Morgan rum -- for less money than it would have spent buying the hundreds of names up for sale. 

 If Allied CEO Philip Bowman can pull this off, he'll look clever. After all, Allied didn't really have the wherewithal to bid for the drinks by itself, especially since its main rivals had ganged up -- Diageo with Pernod Ricard and Bacardi with Brown-Foreman. 

 -- Edward Chancellor, Maureen Kline, Jonathan Ford. 

 --- 

 This column is produced by breakingviews.com, a London-based online financial service in which The Wall Street Journal Europe, a sister publication of this newspaper, owns a minority stake. For more, go to www.breakingviews.com

Document awsj000020010803dwce00f16
?
 

 GM, Ford Announce Plans to Idle Some U.S. Plants Amid Production Cuts 

730 words
14 December 2000
20:56
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 DETROIT -- General Motors Corp. said it will halt production temporarily at three of its North American facilities and cut out overtime at its U.S. car plants next week, responding to slowing demand for cars and trucks. 

 Ford Motor Co. (F), meanwhile, said it will temporarily idle two U.S. passenger-car plants, located in Chicago and Wixom, Mich., next week. Earlier this month, Ford said it would idle some car plants but didn't identify the locations at that time. 

 GM (GM) said it will idle its Fairfax plant in Kansas and two car assembly plants in Lansing, Mich. The Fairfax facility, which employs 2,900 workers, produces the Pontiac Grand Prix and the Oldsmobile Intrigue. The Lansing car plants, which employ 5,700 workers, make the Pontiac Grand Am and the Oldsmobile Alero. 

 Spokesman Tom Wickham said GM will lay off the 8,600 employees temporarily, but those affected will receive 95% of their pay under their union contract. 

 Ford said it will temporarily halt production at the Chicago plant, which makes the Ford Taurus and Mercury Sable, and the Wixom, Mich. plant, which makes the Lincoln Town Car, Continental and the LS, according to company spokesman George Pipas. 

 The Chicago plant employs 2,400 hourly workers, while the Wixom plant has 2,900 employees. 

 Mr. Pipas said the plants will resume production on Jan. 2, noting that the plants are normally closed between Christmas and Jan. 1. The Ford workers also will receive 95% of their pay for next week under the United Auto Workers labor contract. 

 Despite the production cuts, Mr. Pipas said plant workers in six facilities will work overtime next week. 

 The Big Three U.S. auto makers have been taking steps to address growing inventories amid weakening demand for vehicles. Earlier this month, the auto makers reported declines in U.S. vehicle sales for November. Ford, the No. 2 auto maker, reported a 7.2% decline for the month and announced plans to reduce production. The company also issued a fourth-quarter profit warning. 

 DaimlerChrysler AG (DCX) reported a 5% decline in its U.S. vehicle sales for November and announced plans to idle more of its North American factories. 

 GM's November sales fell 8.4%, as both car and truck sales declined. 

 GM Chief Executive Rick Wagoner has been under pressure to stop the slide in the company's North American market share, while bringing its huge capital-spending budget in line with diminished sales. In the first six months of this year, GM's market share was 28.7%, down from 29.8% a year earlier. 

 Citing cooling demand, the No. 1 auto maker cut its first-quarter forecast for North American production last week by 14% to 1.301 million units, the lowest first-quarter level since 1996. Ford has said it will cut production for the first quarter by 10%, and DaimlerChrysler has anounced plans to scale back its fourth-quarter output by 21%. 

 Earlier this month, GM announced that it is reducing production starting in February at a plant in Pontiac, Mich. that makes full-sized pickup trucks, some of GM's most profitable vehicles. A GM spokesman said the layoff, which affects 1,000 workers, will last as long as market demand remains slack. 

 Earlier this week the auto maker said it will cut nearly 15,000 jobs, or 4% of its global work force and kill its slow-selling Oldsmobile brand. GM also said it expects to post lower-than-expected earnings for the fourth quarter. 

 Excluding the items, the company expects to post earnings of between $1.10 and $1.20 a share for the fourth quarter and between $8.47 and $8.57 a share for 2000. Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial were calling for fourth-quarter profit of $1.75 a share and 2000 profit of $9.07 a share. 

 Despite record sales in North America, overcapacity has been driving new-vehicle prices lower for the past several years, squeezing already-thin profit margins. While many economists expect next year to be the third-best sales year ever in the U.S., all of the Big Three auto makers are facing pressure on their bottom lines. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020020330dwce01lro
?
 

 Legg Mason Value Trust Manager:Focus On Long-Term Return 

 By Allison Bisbey Colter 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
440 words
14 December 2000
00:20
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Mutual fund manager William H. Miller III's nine-year winning streak against the U.S. stock market may be about to end, but he's not making any apologies for his own particular brand of value investing. 

 Miller's Legg Mason Value Trust has been running neck and neck with its benchmark, the Standard & Poor's 500 Index, since the end of November, when shares of personal computer maker Gateway Inc. (GTW) were pummeled after a profit warning. 

 Gateway, which was the fund's second-largest holding at the end of last month, fell 36% in a single day, knocking billions of dollars off its market capitalization and wiping out Miller's comfortable lead. 

 Legg Mason Value returned a negative 5.22% for the year through Tuesday, compared with a 6.67% decline in the S&P 500 Index. 

 Miller points out that the fund would be even worse off if not for a well-timed move out of tech stocks this year. He unloaded big chunks of the fund's position in America Online Inc. (AOL) and Dell Computer Corp. (DELL) early in the year, when the euphoria for tech stocks was at its peak. He later trimmed Nokia Corp. (NOK) and Nextel Communications Inc. (NXTL) in the third quarter. 

 While he jokes that "it's too bad I didn't sell Gateway," Miller thinks the PC maker is undervalued. 

 Value Trust held 15 million shares as of Sept. 30. Miller said the fund paid an average price of $36. With the stock now trading just below $18 a share, "ideally, we could sell it and buy it back, but it would be difficult because we own so much," he said. 

 Even if he manages to come out ahead of the S&P 500, Miller doesn't look so good compared with his large-cap value peers, which have returned an average 3.94% so far this year, according to Morningstar Inc. 

 Still, the fund manager remains confident, saying he's more concerned about the fund's long-term returns. "I agree with (financier George) Soros," he said, "it's not how often you are right or wrong, but how much money you make when you are right as opposed to how much you lose when you are wrong." 

 By that measure, Miller has done well: the fund has a five-year annualized return of 28.65%. 

 -By Allison Bisbey Colter, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5298; allison.bisbey-colter@dowjones.com 

Document dj00000020010805dwce04ob6
?
 

 Randstad to unveil profit measures within a week. 

90 words
13 December 2000
10:40
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 AMSTERDAM, Dec 13 (Reuters) - Dutch temporary employment agency Randstad NV said on Wednesday it would unveil measures designed to improve 2001 profitability by December 20 at the latest. Randstad, the world's third largest staffing agency in terms of sales, issued a profit warning for 2000 in November. In order to help earnings grow, the company said it was preparing several measures, looking to cut overhead costs. 

 "We will issue a press release within a week," spokesman Maarten den Ottolander told Reuters. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcd0a7b4
?
 

 RESEARCH ALERT-ABN-AMRO cuts Compaq EPS estimate. 

145 words
13 December 2000
13:37
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 13 (Reuters) - ABN-AMRO said on Wednesday that it lowered Compaq Computer Corp.'s earnings estimates for the fourth quarter and 2001 after the computer maker issued a profit warning on Tuesday. 

 Analyst Bill Shope cut Compaq's fourth-quarter estimates to 28 cents a share from 34 cents and 2001 earnings per share estimates to $1.18 from $1.39. 

 Shope reiterated a hold rating on the stock. 

 Compaq, like many other computer makers, is contending with weak demand and aggressive pricing. 

 "Despite reduced expectations, we still believe that Compaq has an inefficient distribution model and will continue to face stiff competition in the UNIX and Windows server markets and enterprise storage space," Shope said in a research note. 

 Compaq shares closed at $20.77 on Tuesday on the New York Stock Exchange. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcd0a6ms
?
 

 Earnings jitters shatter tech stocks' election euphoria. 

 By Elizabeth Lazarowitz 
800 words
13 December 2000
22:01
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 13 (Reuters) - High-tech shares slumped on Wednesday, erasing an early morning rally as worries about slowing U.S. economic growth and dwindling corporate profits resurfaced on Wall Street. 

 Stocks had surged at the open after a U.S. Supreme Court decision appeared to bring an end to the five-week battle for the White House, and surprisingly soft retail sales raised hopes the Federal Reserve could lower interest rates soon. 

 But the Nasdaq market ended almost 4 percent lower and blue chips held only a slim gain as a profit warning from computer giant Compaq Computer Corp. and investment downgrades drove investors from the technology sector. 

 "There is a pull and push going on," said Edgar Peters, chief investment officer at PanAgora Asset Management. "People expect the Fed is going to lower rates, but they realize there is not going to be an impact for a year. So the immediate concern is that earnings are going to continue to disappoint." 

 The Nasdaq Composite Index dropped 109 points, or 3.72 percent, to 2,822.77, after surging more than 2 percent after the opening bell. Network computer company Sun Microsystems Inc., Internet gear maker Cisco Systems Inc. and a drop in semiconductor shares dragged on the tech-stacked index. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average eked out a gain of 26.17 points, or 0.24 percent, to 10,794.44, lifted by interest-rate-sensitive stocks like J.P. Morgan & Co. Inc. and American Express Co.. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index fell 11.19 points, or 0.82 percent, to 1,359.99. 

 Investors reacted tepidly to a seeming end to the marathon U.S. presidential race, after many had placed bets for days on a victory for the Republican candidate, George W. Bush. 

 A ruling by the nation's top court late on Tuesday seemed to dash the presidential hopes of the Democratic candidate, Vice President Al Gore. Democratic sources said Gore is planning to announce the end of his campaign on Wednesday night - 36 days after the Nov. 7 vote. 

 Many so-called "Bush stocks," like those of drug and tobacco companies, were getting a lift following the Supreme Court decision, but it was not enough to lift the broader market. 

 "Maybe the bigger picture for today is that the market's already priced in the Bush win, and you're seeing earnings taking center stage again," said Weatherly Securities chief investment strategist Barry Hyman. 

 Appliance maker Whirlpool Corp. said its earnings will miss expectations and that it will cut about 10 percent of its work force in a restructuring that could cost as much as $350 million next year. Whirlpool stock fell $2-3/4 to $41-7/16. 

 Compaq, the world's No. 1 personal computer maker, fell $2.67 to $18.10 on the Big Board - a drop of nearly 13 percent - after warning late on Tuesday that it would miss quarterly sales and profit targets due to decreased demand. 

 The bloodshed spread to other computer-related companies. Network computer maker Sun Microsystems fell $2-1/8 to $31-3/4, and networking giant Cisco fell $3-1/4 to $51-1/8. 

 The Nasdaq market's reaction to earnings jitters dashed hopes it could make a lasting comeback after suffering the worst November for the market in 13 years. Traders had bet the market had adjusted to weaker earnings prospects after companies like Intel Corp. and Eastman Kodak Co. bounced despite their quarterly warnings. 

 Salomon Smith Barney downgraded the chip equipment group, including Novellus Systems, down $1-1/8 to $30-1/2, Applied Materials, off $2-13/16 to $42-11/16, and KLA-Tencor, down $2-3/16 to $30-7/16. 

 That dented the entire semiconductor sector, including Intel Corp., the world's No. 1 chip maker, which fell $1 to $35-1/2 on the Nasdaq. The Philadelphia Stock Exchange's semiconductor index slumped 6.48 percent. 

 Chase Hambrecht & Quist said Dell Computer Corp., the world's No. 2 personal computer maker, may be the next computer giant to warn of softer profits. Dell shed $1-17/64 to $20-7/16. 

 Ahead of the open, a report showing U.S. retail sales were surprisingly soft last month raised expectations for a near-term cut in interest rates by the U.S. central bank. 

 "It is a signal the Fed is likely to move sooner rather than later," said Paul Christopher, an economist at A.G. Edwards & Sons Inc. 

 "We're expecting a bias change to 'neutral' next week, and we expect a rate cut probably in January. The numbers today raise the odds of a rate cut in January." 

Document lba0000020010821dwcd0a2t7
?
 

 U.S. tech stocks plumb lows - election end in sight. 

 By Elizabeth Lazarowitz 
631 words
13 December 2000
20:28
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 13 (Reuters) - Technology stocks hovered at session lows in mid-afternoon trading on Wednesday as investors focused on a flood of profit warnings and investment downgrades. 

 But blue chips held gains for the second day in a row as growing speculation that the central bank could lower interest rates soon to offset slowing economic growth lifted financial shares. 

 Many so-called "Bush stocks," like those of drug and tobacco companies, were getting a lift following a U.S. Supreme Court decision that appeared to pave the way for Republican George W. Bush to become the next U.S. president after a five-week, post-election battle against Democrat Al Gore. 

 But it was not enough to prop up the broader market. 

 "People are still leery about earnings, and that still hangs over the market," said John Davidson, chief investment officer at Orbitex Management, referring particularly to tech shares. "Today is a good day for large-cap value stocks." 

 The Nasdaq Composite Index dropped 70.7 points, or 2.41 percent, to 2,861.07, after surging more than 2 percent after the opening bell. Network computer company Sun Microsystems Inc. and Internet gear maker Cisco Systems Inc. pulled down the tech-stacked index. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 56.88 points, or 0.53 percent, to 10,825.15, lifted by interest rate-sensitive stocks like J.P. Morgan & Co. Inc. and American Express Co.. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index was down 4.56 points, or 0.33 percent, at 1,366.62. 

 Investors reacted tepidly to a seeming end to the marathon U.S. presidential race, after many had placed bets for days on a Bush victory. 

 A ruling by the nation's top court late on Tuesday appeared to dash the presidential hopes of Vice President Gore. Democratic sources said Gore is planning to announce the end of his campaign on Wednesday night - 36 days after the Nov. 7 vote. 

 "Maybe the bigger picture for today is that the market's already priced in the Bush win, and you're seeing earnings taking center stage again," said Weatherly Securities chief investment strategist Barry Hyman. 

 Ahead of the open, a report showing U.S. retail sales were surprisingly soft last month raised expectations for a near-term cut in interest rates by the U.S. central bank. 

 Sales at U.S. retail stores unexpectedly weakened in November as the key Thanksgiving-to-Christmas shopping season opened, dragged down by the sharpest slump in new-car sales in more than two years, the Commerce Department said. 

 "It is a signal the Fed is likely to move sooner rather than later," said Paul Christopher, an economist at A.G. Edwards & Sons Inc. "We're expecting a bias change to 'neutral' next week, and we expect a rate cut probably in January. The numbers today raise the odds of a rate cut in January." 

 That buoyed interest rate-sensitive financial stocks. J.P. Morgan rose $4-12/16 to $163-3/16. American Express added 7/16 to $56-5/8. 

 Early Wednesday, appliance maker Whirlpool Corp. said its earnings will miss expectations and that it will cut about 10 percent of its work force in a restructuring that could cost as much as $350 million next year. Whirlpool stock fell $3-1/16, or almost 7 percent, to $41-1/8. 

 Compaq Computer Corp., the world's No. 1 personal computer maker, fell $2.22 to $18.55 on the Big Board - a drop of more than 10 percent - after warning after the closing bell on Tuesday that it would miss quarterly sales and profit targets due to decreased demand. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcd0a2nv
?
 

 U.S. Nasdaq staggers to lows - blue chips steady. 

 By Elizabeth Lazarowitz 
758 words
13 December 2000
19:41
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 13 (Reuters) - High-tech shares hugged the day's lows in mid-afternoon trading on Wednesday as five weeks of election strife appeared to be reaching an end, and investors focused on a flood of profit warnings and investment downgrades. 

 But blue chips claimed gains for the second day in a row as growing speculation that the central bank could lower interest rates soon to offset slowing economic growth lifted financial shares. 

 Many so-called "Bush stocks," like those of drug and tobacco companies, were getting a lift in the wake of a U.S. Supreme Court decision that appeared to pave the way for Republican George W. Bush to take the White House. 

 But it was not enough to prop up the broader market. 

 "We've been ignoring these downgrades, and today we're not ignoring them," said Weatherly Securities chief investment strategist Barry Hyman. "Maybe the bigger picture for today is that the market's already priced in the Bush win, and you're seeing earnings taking center stage again." 

 The Nasdaq Composite Index dropped 74 points, or 2.54 percent, to 2,857, after surging more than 2 percent after the opening bell. Network computer company Sun Microsystems Inc. and Internet gear maker Cisco Systems Inc. pulled down the tech-stacked index. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 40 points, or 0.38 percent, to 10,809, lifted by interest rate-sensitive stocks like J.P. Morgan & Co. Inc. and American Express Co. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index fell 5 points, or 0.39 percent, to 1,365. 

 Investors reacted tepidly to a seeming end to the marathon U.S. presidential race, after many had placed bets for days on a Bush victory. 

 A ruling by the nation's top court late on Tuesday appeared to dash the presidential hopes of the Democratic candidate, Vice President Al Gore. Democratic sources said Gore is planning to announce the end of his campaign on Wednesday night - more than five weeks after the Nov. 7 vote. 

 "Closure (in the election) means we can move forward," said Arthur Hogan, chief market analyst at Jefferies & Co. 

 Ahead of the open, a report showing U.S. retail sales were surprisingly soft last month raised expectations for a near-term cut in interest rates by the U.S. central bank. 

 Sales at U.S. retail stores unexpectedly weakened in November as the key Thanksgiving-to-Christmas shopping season opened, dragged down by the sharpest slump in new-car sales in more than two years, the Commerce Department said. 

 "It is a signal the Fed is likely to move sooner rather than later," said Paul Christopher, an economist at A.G. Edwards & Sons Inc. "We're expecting a bias change to 'neutral' next week, and we expect a rate cut probably in January. The numbers today raise the odds of a rate cut in January." 

 That buoyed interest rate-sensitive financial stocks. J.P. Morgan rose $4-3/16 to $162-5/8. American Express added 7/16 to $56-5/8. 

 Early Wednesday, appliance maker Whirlpool Corp. said its earnings will fall short of expectations and announced it will cut about 6,000 jobs, or 10 percent of its workforce, in a restructuring that could lead to charges next year of up to $350 million. Whirlpool stock fell $3-7/16, or almost 8 percent, to $40-3/4. 

 Compaq Computer Corp., the world's No. 1 personal computer maker, fell $2.07 to $18.70 on the Big Board after warning after the closing bell on Tuesday that it would miss quarterly sales and profit targets due to decreased demand. 

 Sun Microsystems fell $1-5/8 to $32-1/4, after slumping to a fresh year low of $31-1/2 earlier in the session. The company, which has lost about 30 percent of its value in a week, had denied it faced accounting problems, but analysts questioned its growth prospects. 

 Microsoft Corp. was hit by a downgrade from investment house Prudential Securities, but shrugged off the blow, rising 3/8 to $58-3/4. The stock was lifted by investors' hope that Bush will have a more relaxed approach to the antitrust issues plaguing the software giant. 

 Cigarette maker and Dow component Philip Morris Cos. Inc. gained $2-7/16 to $40-3/4 on the apparent Bush victory, hitting a fresh year high of $40-15/16 earlier. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcd0a2m8
?
 

 U.S. tech stocks mired in red, blue chips hold ground. 

 By Denise Duclaux 
1,048 words
13 December 2000
18:09
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 13 (Reuters) - Technology stocks slumped in midday trading on Wednesday as investors, bidding an early farewell to the five-week-old presidential saga, turned their sights to the profit warnings and investment downgrades flooding Wall Street. 

 Blue chips held a firm grip on positive territory, buoyed by financial stocks, as speculation mounted that the central bank will lower interest rates sooner than expected in the face of a slowing economy. 

 "There is a pull and push going on," said Edgar Peters, chief investment officer at PanAgora Asset Management. "People expect the Fed is going to lower rates, but they realize there is not going to be an impact for a year. So the immediate concern is that earnings are going to continue to disappoint." 

 The Nasdaq Composite Index dropped 71 points, or 2.43 percent, to 2,860, after surging more than 2 percent after the opening bell. Network computer company Sun Microsystems Inc. and Internet gear maker Cisco Systems Inc. led the tech-stacked index lower. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 48 points, or 0.45 percent, to 10,817, lifted by interest-rate-sensitive stocks like J.P. Morgan & Co. Inc. and American Express Co. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index slipped 4 points, or 0.33 percent, to 1,366. 

 Investors showed lukewarm reaction to an apparent end to the marathon U.S. presidential race, long betting that Republican George W. Bush would take the White House. A divided U.S. Supreme Court late on Tuesday appeared to hand the presidency to Bush. The Democratic candidate, Vice President Al Gore, is planning to announce the end of his campaign - more than five weeks after the Nov. 7 vote, Democratic sources said. 

 "There are a great deal of people that believe a lot of this news is priced into the marketplace in the last few days," said Arthur Hogan, chief market analyst at Jefferies & Co. "But I think definitely closure (in the election) means we can move forward." 

 Speculation that the central bank will cut interest rates grew. Sales at U.S. retail stores unexpectedly weakened in November as the key Thanksgiving-to-Christmas shopping season opened, dragged down by the sharpest slump in new-car sales in more than two years, the Commerce Department said. 

 "It is a signal the Fed is likely to move sooner rather than later," said Paul Christopher, an economist at A.G. Edwards & Sons Inc. "We're expecting a bias change to 'neutral' next week, and we expect a rate cut probably in January. The numbers today raise the odds of a rate cut in January." 

 Financial stocks got a boost from the interest-rate optimism, propping up the blue-chip Dow index. J.P. Morgan rose $4-5/16 to $162-3/4, and American Express added 13/16 to $57. 

 Investors, who had been rebuilding courage after suffering the worst November for the market in 13 years, had hoped the market had priced in earnings confessions after companies like Intel Corp. and Eastman Kodak Co. gained ground right after their quarterly warnings. 

 But Compaq Computer Corp., the world's No. 1 personal computer maker, fell $1.81 to $18.96 on the Big Board after warning it would miss quarterly sales and profit targets due to decreased demand. 

 "There is a conflicting opinion, which is causing a lot of confusion, over whether things are as bad as they are going to get or are things going to get worse," said Peters, who helps manage $17 billion in assets. 

 Sun Microsystems fell $2-5/16 to $31-9/16, after slumping to a fresh year low of $31-1/2 earlier in the session. The company, which has lost about 30 percent of its value in a week, had denied it faced accounting problems. But analysts questioned its growth prospects. 

 Wall Street houses dented sentiment by unleashing a series of bearish reports. Prudential Securities lowered its investment outlook on Microsoft Corp., citing weak business computer sales growth. 

 Microsoft, a Dow component, inched down 1/16 to $58-5/16 on the Nasdaq. Earlier in the day, the stock was underpinned by investors' hope that Bush will have a more relaxed approach to the antitrust issues plaguing the software giant. 

 Cigarette maker and Dow component Philip Morris Cos. Inc. gained $2-1/16 to $40-3/16 on the apparent Bush victory, hitting a fresh year high of $40-13/16 earlier. 

 But Intel Corp., the world's No. 1 chip maker, weighed on the Dow industrials, down $1-1/8 at $35-3/8 on the Nasdaq. Intel, one of the 30 Dow stocks since Nov. 1, 1999, also is among the most heavily weighted stocks traded on Nasdaq. On Wednesday, Intel was the fifth most actively traded Nasdaq stock. 

 Salomon Smith Barney downgraded the chip equipment group, including Novellus Systems, down $1-3/16 to $30-7/16, Applied Materials, off $2-5/8 to $42-7/8, and KLA-Tencor, down $2-3/16 to $30-7/16. 

 Chase Hambrecht & Quist said Dell Computer Corp., the world's No. 2 personal computer maker, may be the next computer giant to issue a financial warning. Dell shed 41/64 to $21-1/16. 

 "I think with all the pre-announcements, people are still concerned about the economy and concerned about earnings and the valuations of these stocks," said John Volk, co-director of institutional trading at D.A. Davidson and Co. 

 The evidence of weakening consumer demand likely will add weight to the argument that the U.S. central bank should signal its willingness to reduce interest rates in the future. Its policy-setting body, the Federal Open Market Committee, meets on Tuesday, Dec. 19. 

 Most analysts think the Fed will move with characteristic caution toward reducing interest rates, announcing next week that it sees the risks between economic slowing and a flare-up in inflation as balanced. 

 But the Fed is expected to hold rates steady into next year, possibly until as late as March, while it assesses how rapidly the economy's momentum is waning and whether it could slip into recession. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcd0a2ic
?
 

 U.S. stocks fall as tech-growth woes eclipse Bush-Gore drama. 

 By Brendan Intindola 
567 words
13 December 2000
21:28
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 13 (Reuters) - U.S. technology stocks fell on Wednesday as an early relief rally on the expected end of the five-week legal fight for the presidency gave way to concerns about the tech sector's growth prospects. 

 A ruling by the U.S. Supreme Court late Tuesday appeared to dash the presidential hopes of the Democratic candidate, Vice President Al Gore. Democratic sources said Gore is planning to announce the end of his campaign on Wednesday night, allowing Republican George W. Bush to claim the White House. 

 Stocks shot higher at the open, but the gains faded through the trading day, leaving the Nasdaq Composite Index with a drop of 108.96 points, or 3.72 percent, to 2,822.81, according to the latest data. Earlier, the Nasdaq had gained 70 points to 3,001.7, then finished near the low of the day. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial average managed to post a modest gain of 26.17 points, or 0.24 percent, to 10,794.44, while the benchmark Standard & Poor's 500 index shed 11.19 points, or 0.82 percent, to close at 1,359.99. 

 In early trade, the Dow jumped nearly 150 points, and managed to finished in the black, buoyed by gains in Philip Morris Cos. Inc., AT&T Corp. and J.P. Morgan & Co Inc. and Alcoa Inc. 

 "Maybe the bigger picture for today is that the market's already priced in the Bush win, and you're seeing earnings taking center stage again," said Weatherly Securities chief investment strategist Barry Hyman. "We've been ignoring these downgrades, and today we're not ignoring them." 

 Microsoft Corp. was hit by a downgrade from investment house Prudential Securities, dropping $1-1/8 to $57-1/4. Earlier, the stock was up on hopes that Bush will have a more relaxed approach to the antitrust issues plaguing the software giant. 

 Compaq Computer Corp., the world's No. 1 personal computer maker, fell $2.67, or nearly 13 percent, to $18.10 on the New York Stock Exchange after warning after Tuesday's closing bell that it would miss quarterly sales and profit targets due to decreased demand. 

 Sun Microsystems Inc. fell $2-1/8 to $31-3/4, after slumping to a fresh year low of $31-1/2 earlier in the session. The company, which has lost about 30 percent of its value in a week, had denied it faced accounting problems. But analysts have questioned its growth prospects. 

 Ahead of the open, a report showing U.S. retail sales were surprisingly soft last month raised expectations for a near-term cut in interest rates by the U.S. central bank. 

 Sales at U.S. retail stores unexpectedly weakened in November as the key Thanksgiving-to-Christmas shopping season opened, dragged down by the sharpest drop in new-car sales in more than two years, the U.S. Commerce Department said. 

 "It is a signal the Fed is likely to move sooner rather than later," said Paul Christopher, an economist at A.G. Edwards & Sons Inc. "We're expecting a bias change to 'neutral' next week, and we expect a rate cut probably in January. The numbers today raise the odds of a rate cut in January." 

Document lba0000020010821dwcd09yfd
?
 

DBusiness
Kodak drops earnings projections

Associated Press   
297 words
13 December 2000
The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel
MLWK
Final
02
English
Copyright 2000, The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

For the second consecutive quarter, Eastman Kodak Co. lowered its earnings projections to reflect a sharp slowdown in film sales it blamed largely on a slowing U.S. economy.

The drop in U.S. film sales, from a growth rate of 7% to 8% down to almost zero, "really started in September, and it's carried through and gotten worse as we've gone through Thanksgiving," chief executive Dan Carp told Wall Street analysts and investors Tuesday.

The world's biggest photography company said fourth-quarter earnings are likely to be 65 to 75 cents per share compared with a previous projection of $1 to $1.15. That would be down 40% to 50% from the same period a year ago.

Carp said he expects the soft sales to persist through the first half of 2001 but improve in the second half.

Kodak will conserve cash by reducing capital expenditures by $200 million and by being fiscally conservative in other areas, including hiring, Carp said. Last month, Kodak reduced its share-repurchase program from nearly $10 million a day to about $1 million a day.

Despite the profit warning, investors appeared reassured by Kodak's plans to cut costs.

The setbacks have come while Kodak is trying to overcome higher costs for raw materials, rising investments in digital photography and the adverse effect of a strong U.S. dollar in Europe.

After warning in September that third-quarter revenue would fall short of expectations, Kodak posted an 8% drop in third-quarter operating profits. Excluding charges, it earned $430 million, down from $466 million a year earlier.

For the full year, Kodak expects to earn $4.65 to $4.75, a 6% to 8% decline from 1999.

Document MLWK000020100320dwcd00vrc
?
 

DBusiness
Delphi weighs selling off divisions to regain footing in auto market

Bloomberg News   
487 words
13 December 2000
The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel
MLWK
Final
02
English
Copyright 2000, The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

Delphi Automotive Systems Corp. expects lower to little-changed sales this quarter and next year, and said it may sell businesses with a total annual revenue of as much as $5 billion as slowing vehicle sales hurt earnings.

The largest auto-parts maker is reviewing options, including sales, closures or joint ventures, for businesses with $4 billion to $5 billion in annual revenue. Delphi also plans to cut capital spending in traditional parts businesses by about $300 million, or almost a fourth, as it looks to boost spending on electronics and other more-promising businesses, spokesman Steve Gaut said.

Auto-parts suppliers have cut production, jobs and earnings forecasts as vehicle demand has slowed. General Motors Corp., Delphi's former parent and biggest customer, last week trimmed first-quarter North American production plans 14%. Ford Motor Co. and DaimlerChrysler AG also have cut output.

Delphi makes electronic controllers at its plant in Oak Creek. The company announced this year a $60 million plant upgrade to make a new generation of electronic and engine controllers.

Analysts had been expecting Tuesday's profit warning, and lowered their earnings estimates for the company in recent days.

The decision to shed product lines that don't perform as well will be well-received by analysts.

"They have a lot of capital tied up in revenue streams that just aren't making a return for them. They need to find a way to boost those returns," said David Leiker, who follows auto industry stocks for Robert W. Baird & Co., Milwaukee.

Delphi is "using this period of economic downturn as an opportunity to accelerate their goal of shifting their portfolio of businesses from the mundane and mature to the high-tech, high- growth areas," said Charles Brady, a Credit Lyonnais Securities Inc. analyst with a "buy" rating on the company.

"These changes are indicative of a highly charged management that's extremely confident."

The Troy, Mich.-based company is "ready to make some hard decisions about getting out of businesses that don't make sense," said J.T. Battenberg III, its chairman, president and chief executive, on a call with analysts and investors.

Delphi also said it's considering a stock buyback in the first quarter.

The company's shares rose 50 cents to $12.25. They have fallen 22% this year.

Businesses under review include its automotive generator unit, which has annual sales of about $600 million.

Delphi is reviewing options for units across its three divisions, although the company said the majority of those it plans to take action on are in the Safety, Thermal and Electrical Architecture division. Analysts said Delphi may divest units that make heating, ventilation and air-conditioning systems, air bags, and ignition products as it focuses on integrated electronics systems.

------------

Thomas Content of the Journal Sentinel staff contributed to this report.

Document MLWK000020100320dwcd00vr8
?
 

 Business; Financial Desk 
 Technology Compaq Is Latest to Sound Sales and  Profit Warning  Outlook: The leading PC maker says targets for the fourth quarter and next year won't be met. 

 CESCA ANTONELLI 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
463 words
13 December 2000
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-3
English
 Copyright 2000 Los Angeles Times 

 HOUSTON -- Compaq Computer Corp., the world's leading maker of personal computers, said Tuesday that sales and profit will miss its forecasts in the fourth quarter and 2001 because of weak PC sales to consumers and small businesses. 

 Fourth-quarter sales will be $11.2 billion to $11.4 billion, missing targets by 8% to 10%, Chief Executive Michael Capellas said in a conference call. Profit before charges will be 28 cents to 30 cents a share, less than the 36-cent average estimate of analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Compaq is the latest PC-related company to cut expectations. Evidence of sluggish sales already had piled up with warnings from No. 1 chip maker Intel Corp., Apple Computer Inc., Gateway Inc. and others. The price of memory chips, another indicator of PC demand, has fallen by half in the last three months. 

 "It's kind of like everyone is going to confession with these warnings," said Louis Kokernak, senior equity strategist at Martin Capital Advisors, which owns Compaq shares. 

 Compaq slipped as low as $19.50 in after-hours trading following the announcement, then recovered to $20.74. They had closed at $20.77, up 53 cents, on the New York Stock Exchange. The Houston-based company's stock has fallen 23% this year. 

 Compaq expects sales next year to rise about 10%, with the second half of the year stronger than the first, Capellas said. Earnings per share will increase 25%, he said. 

 After reporting that third-quarter profit more than quadrupled, Capellas had predicted in October that fourth-quarter sales would climb 18% to about $12.4 billion and earnings would rise more than 40% next year. 

 Compaq had net income of $332 million, or 19 cents a share, on sales of $10.5 billion in last year's fourth quarter. 

 The announcement Tuesday is the first stumble for Capellas, who was picked to succeed Eckhard Pfeiffer as Compaq's chief executive in July 1999. Pfeiffer was ousted by Compaq's board after several lackluster quarters. 

 Under Capellas, Compaq has focused on more profitable products, such as servers that power networks and Web sites, as well as devices that link to the Internet. It has lured corporate customers away from rivals such as Dell Computer Corp. 

 Problems developed in early December, Capellas said, as a slowdown in the consumer market spread to small-business customers and Internet companies. December typically accounts for about 45% of Compaq's fourth-quarter sales. "October looked good," Capellas said Tuesday. "Through November, we were still on track." 

Document latm000020010808dwcd02h7b
?
 

 Kodak lowers forecasts amid shift toward digital. 

 Chad Graham 
215 words
13 December 2000
Hollywood Reporter
HLYW
27
ISSN: 0018-3660; Volume 366; Issue 5
English
 Copyright 2000 Gale Group Inc. All rights reserved. COPYRIGHT 2000 VNU Business Media 

 A slowing economy and reduced consumer demand for film, which has cut store inventories, forced the Eastman Kodak Co. on Tuesday to slash its fourth-quarter 2000 and first-half 2001 earnings estimates. 

 The Rochester, N.Y.-based film processor said it expects to earn 65 cents-75 cents a share in the fourth quarter. Analysts had expected earnings of $1.07 a share. The announcement was the company's third profit warning since September. 

 "The actions we're announcing today will help us manage the effects of the slowdown, which we expect will moderate in the second half of 2001," Kodak CEO Daniel Carp said. "In no way do the economic conditions cause us to change our strategy of using digital technologies to create a bigger picture industry than exists today." 

 Wall Street appeared to be relieved that the company's current ills were not cause by its move toward digital film products, pushing Kodak's share price 3.8% higher Tuesday to 41.06. Carp said the company will cut capital spending and inventories while increasing cash flow. 

FULL TEXT VNU eMedia, Inc. THIS IS THE FULL TEXT: COPYRIGHT 2000 VNU Business Media Subscription: $175.00 per year. Published daily (5 times a week).

Document hlyw000020010806dwcd00ckk
?
 

 Stocks mixed at Wall Street close 

604 words
13 December 2000
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 NEW YORK, Dec 12 (AFP) - Stocks ended mixed here Tuesday, with investors cautious about a new batch of profit warnings while awaiting a critical US Supreme Court decision on the presidential election. 

 The tech-dominated Nasdaq slipped 83.30 points (2.76 percent) to close at 2,931.80, and the Dow Jones industrials rose 42.47 points (0.40 percent) to 10,768.27. 

 The Standard and Poor's 500, meanwhile, fell 9.02 points (0.65 percent) to 1,371.18. 

 Stocks were pressured by a new set of profit warnings from Kodak, Advanced Micro Devices, Honeywell and Delphi, but analysts said some investors used the warnings as an excuse to lock in recent gains. 

 However, by late morning the Dow was higher on positive earnings pre-announcements from a number of blue chip stocks, including General Electric, Merck, Colgate-Palmolive and Procter and Gamble. 

 On the other hand, the Nasdaq composite remained under selling pressure throughout the day on investor concerns that the index's sharp rises over the past two sessions were excessive. 

 Dealers noted a "wait and see" attitude among investors, who were preoccupied with the US Supreme Court's imminent ruling on the Florida Supreme Court's order for a recount of that state's votes in the US presidential race. 

 Andre Archambault, technical analyst for S and P Marketscope, said market technical indicators were largely neutral ahead of the Supreme Court ruling. Pharmaceutical stocks overall closed higher amid perceptions that the pharmaceutical industry's favored candidate, Republican George W. Bush, would be certified. 

 Johnson and Johnson gained 1-3/8 at 97, and Bristol-Myers added 1- 3/16 at 67-3/4. 

 Merck advanced 3/4 at 91-3/8 after the company's executives told analysts they were comfortable with quarterly and full-year estimates. 

 General Motors rose 3/16 at 51-3/4, even amid a warning issued by the company over its fourth-quarter earnings. GM also said it plans to cut 10 percent of its staff in North America and Europe in the next 15 months and will phase out its Oldsmobile brand line over a number of years. 

 General Electric fell 2-1/2 at 52-13/16 and Honeywell lost 3-1/16 at 52-1/8. Honeywell said that portfolio revisions will impact fourth- quarter earnings. However, GE's fourth-quarter results are still expected to remain strong. 

 Advanced Micro Devices slipped 1/16 at 17-1/4 after the company's warning on fourth-quarter earnings. 

 Kodak rose 1-1/2 at 41-1/16, as analysts said a profit warning issued had already been priced into the stock. 

 Colgate-Palmolive finished up 2.43 dollars at 58.98 after it confirmed its fourth-quarter and 2001 forecasts, and Procter and Gamble added 2-7/8 at 71-15/16 after announcing it remains "comfortable" with Wall Street analysts' projections. 

 Sun Microsystems closed down 1/8 at 33-7/8 after it was downgraded by analysts who cited concerns about the slowdown in demand in the current quarter. 

 Yahoo rose 1-15/16 at 35-13/16 and Disney was down 1/16 at 30-5/ 16 after Disney's abcnews.com said it and Yahoo had entered into a content distribution and broadcast services agreement. 

 On the bond market, the yield on the 10-year bond eased to 5.341 percent from 5.352 percent Monday and, on the 30-year bond, to 5.532 percent against 5.533 percent. Bond yields and prices move in opposite directions. 

 bur-rl/ejp 

Document afpr000020010803dwcd05aj8
?
 

 Profit warnings serve blow to BAE. 

449 words
13 December 2000
The Scotsman
SC
12
English
(c) 2000

 The defence and aerospace group BAE Systems, whose shares have failed to fire in the wake of disappointing first-half figures in September, was shot down yesterday as investors took fright at an overnight profit warning from the US aerospace and automated controls company, Honeywell. 

 With analysts taking a more cautious approach to the company's prospects since the interim stage, positive news flow was seen as essential to kick-start flagging City confidence, so there was an equal risk that bad news from elsewhere in the sector would trigger a negative reaction. 

 BAE's share price has not hit the 500p heights for nearly two years and has struggled for much of this year to keep the 400p mark in its sights. 

 The company has been in transition, with the acquisition of GEC's defence operation, the transfer of Airbus assets to a single company in which it will hold a 20 per cent stake, and expansion across the Atlantic with acquisitions including the airborne electronics business of rival Lockheed Martin. 

 But the company's shares were dealt a blow by a string of downgrades following the first set of figures after the GEC deal, as fears over a slower rate of growth overshadowed more positive signs from on the cash-flow and synergy delivery fronts. 

 The effects of delays to regular UK MoD repair work may be quickly shaken off, but more damaging were the concerns that Hawk deliveries will begin to tail off, although a major contract with the Indian government to buy 66 Hawk trainers will have eased fears of job losses and redundancy charge. 

 The fact that the company's chairman, Dick Evans, was seen to be adopting a cautious tone will not have improved short-term sentiment. 

 Not all observers were downbeat, with some pointing to the company's strong presence in the US, the world's largest defence market. But with industry consolidation placing the big contracts in fewer and fewer hands, the risks as well as the potential rewards are magnified. 

 The short-term pressure on earnings following its various deals is likely to lift as global defence equipment spending rises for the first time in 20 years, while the outlook for naval orders also looks healthy. 

 As broker Greig Middleton suggested, the challenge facing BAE is to turn its huge order book into earnings growth through increased efficiencies, while improving earnings quality through acquisitions or seeking organic growth through the trend to out-sourcing. 

 The shares have suffered from the market's viewing of aerospace stocks on a short-term basis. The longer-term value is there, but investors need some good news stories. 

Document sc00000020010816dwcd00sy6
?
 

BUSINESS
Kodak lowers forecast for profits once again

Associated Press   
402 words
13 December 2000
Houston Chronicle
HOU
3 STAR
3
English
Copyright 2000. Hearst Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

ROCHESTER, N.Y. - For the second consecutive quarter, Eastman Kodak Co. lowered its earnings projections to reflect a sharp slowdown in film sales, which it blamed largely on a slowing economy.

The drop in U.S. film sales, from a growth rate of 7 to 8 percent to almost zero, "really started in September, and it's carried through and gotten worse as we've gone through Thanksgiving," Chief Executive Dan Carp told Wall Street analysts and investors Tuesday.

The world's biggest photography company said fourth-quarter earnings are likely to be 65 to 75 cents per share, compared with a previous projection of $1 to $1.15. That would be down 40 to 50 percent from the same period a year ago.

Carp said he expects soft sales to persist through the first half of 2001 but improve in the second half.

Kodak will conserve cash by reducing capital expenditures by $200 million and being fiscally conservative in other areas, including hiring, Carp said. Last month, Kodak reduced its share-repurchase program from nearly $10 million a day to about $1 million.

Despite the profit warning, investors appeared reassured by Kodak's plans to cut costs. The company's shares rose $1.50, or almost 4 percent, to close at $41.06 Tuesday on the New York Stock Exchange.

The setbacks have come while Kodak is trying to overcome higher costs for raw materials, rising investments in digital photography and the adverse effect of a strong U.S. dollar in Europe.

After warning in September that third-quarter revenues would fall short of expectations, Kodak posted an 8 percent drop in third-quarter operating profits. Excluding charges, it earned $430 million, down from $466 million the previous year.

For the full year, Kodak expects to earn $4.65 to $4.75, a 6 to 8 percent decline from 1999.

"Film is no different right now that many of the other consumer categories," Carp said at a meeting in New York. He said the company expects "to work through this bubble that's in the consumer business."

Chief Financial Officer Bob Brust said "there's no evidence that slowing of growth in film rolls has anything to do with market share - it's just a general slowdown, so we're going to focus heavily on the balance sheet."

Document HOU0000020120818dwcd025og
?
 

 Compaq Warns Results to Trail Expectations 

 By Gary McWilliams 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
610 words
13 December 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
A3
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Compaq Computer Corp. joined the pile-up of technology companies skidding on weaker computer demand, and warned that fourth-quarter earnings and revenue will fall well short of Wall Street analysts' expectations. 

 The world's largest personal-computer maker said revenue for the fourth quarter will be between $11.2 billion and $11.4 billion, or about $1 billion below analysts' forecasts. It blamed the sales shortfall on lower-than-expected home PC, business PC and server computer sales. 

 The projection means revenue will rise 6.8% to 8.8% from $10.48 billion a year ago. Just seven weeks ago, Compaq said it was confident of expanding revenue by 18% and confirmed analysts' forecasts for earnings of 36 cents a diluted share. Earnings -- before a $1 billion charge to write down high-tech investments -- should come in between 28 cents and 30 cents a diluted share, the company said. 

 Compaq's warning comes after similar cautions from rivals Gateway Inc., Apple Computer Inc. and suppliers Intel Corp. and Advanced Micro Devices Inc. 

 Compaq's shares fell to $20 in after-hours trading yesterday. In 4 p.m. New York Stock Exchange composite trading, prior to the profitwarning, its shares rose 53 cents to $20.77. 

 The $1 billion charge largely reflects the crash in CMGI Inc., the Andover, Mass., Internet conglomerate whose shares have plummeted this year. Compaq owns about 14% of CMGI. In 4 p.m. trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market, CMGI shares rose 25 cents to $11.88. Compaq acquired CMGI shares valued at $38 with its 1999 sale to CMGI of portal site AltaVista. It also plans a $75 million charge related to its purchase earlier this year of InaCom Corp.'s distribution operations. 

 Michael D. Capellas, Compaq's chief executive officer, said the slowdown would trim the company's revenue growth and profit next year. He told analysts on a conference call that 2001 revenue is expected to rise about 10% over this year's lowered forecast, below the 14%-16% gains previously projected. 

 While the Houston PC maker had expected home-PC demand to rise 15% from year-ago levels, it now believes home-PC sales will be flat with the third quarter's $2.13 billion in sales. 

 "We've taken steps to cut production to make sure we don't have product we cannot move," Mr. Capellas said. 

 Corporate PC revenue should rise just 3% from the third quarter's $3.48 billion level. Wall Street had been looking for a double-digit gain in corporate PC sales. 

 Michael J. Winkler, executive vice president, said the corporate market has been slow to respond to Microsoft Corp.'s introduction of Windows 2000 software. "We're optimistic that in 2001, it'll come to fruition," he said. 

 The company said it continues to see sales expanding in Asia and Europe on par with its plans. 

 After Thanksgiving, the slowdown that began with consumers quickly spread to small businesses, and to Internet companies acquiring server computers to run their Web sites, Mr. Capellas said. "We've seen an erosion in confidence over the last couple of weeks" among such customers. 

 In addition to lower PC sales, price pressures are growing in corporate desktop PCs and server computers, he said. Declining prices have been most severe among entry-level servers, where archrival Dell Computer Corp. has rapidly expanded its portfolio. Pricing should continue to affect the company's business for the first six months of 2001, he said. However, he cautioned: "We're not implying any dramatic shift." 

Document j000000020010807dwcd00woz
?
 

 FFBN Retail Wrap: Most Sectors Post Losses 

831 words
13 December 2000
22:50
Federal Filings Newswires
FF
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


ISSUER: FEDERAL FILINGS
SYMBOL: X.FFI
        WASHINGTON (FFBN)--With the jewelry, department, discount and variety
stores segments all trading lower Thursday, the Federal Filings Retail Index
dropped 1.2%, or 93.7 points, to finish at 7738.7.



        The jewelry stores subindex fell 5.7%, or 4.2 points, to 68.87,
posting the biggest loss of the day.  Shares of Tiffany & Co. slid 6.4%, or
2.25 points, to 33.
        Also posting a loss, apparel stores declined 2%, or 11.3 points, to
543.34 as one specialty retailer issued a profit warning for the fourth
quarter.
        Shares of Claire's Stores Inc. were off by 13%, or 2.56 points, to
16.75, after the company announced that fourth quarter earnings will be
between 70 cents to 80 cents a share. Before the warning, the First
Call/Thomson Financial consensus had put earnings at $1.12 a share.
        In a statement, Claire's said it experienced a "dramatic drop" in
sales during the first two weeks of December at its Claire's and
Afterthoughts stores.
        Also in the apparel stores subindex, shares of American Eagle
Outfitters Inc. slid 7.8%, or 3.06, to 36.44; shares of Bebe Stores Inc. fell
12%, or 2.5, to 18.38; and shares of Talbots Inc. lost 4.5%, or 1.88, to
39.44.
        Elsewhere, the department stores sector dropped 2.9%, or 21.39
points, to finish at 705.49.  Shares of Sears, Roebuck Co. slipped 3.9%, or
1.39, to 34.38; Kohl's Corp.'s shares weakened 2.3%, or 1.38, to 58.31; and
May Department Store Co.'s shares were off by 3.5%, or 1.06, to 29.19.
        The variety and discount stores subindex lost 2.6%, or 79.39 points,
to finish at 3007.77, as shares of Wal-Mart Stores Inc. shed 3%, or 1.56, to
50.31.
        Also, shares of Dollar Tree Stores Inc. tumbled 8.4%, or 3.44, to
37.25, while Family Dollar Stores Inc.'s shares dropped 2.4%, or 56 cents, to
23.
        Major market measures were mixed again on Wednesday as the Dow Jones
Industrial Average gained just 26.17 points to 10,794.44 and the Nasdaq
Composite Index dropped 109 points to 2822.77. The Standard & Poor's 500
Stock Index dropped 11.2 points to 1359.98.
COMPANY NEWS:
                                              Net     Pct    EPS    EPS
                                     Close   Change  Change  01E    02E
CLAIRE'S STORES INC. (CLE)           16.75    -2.56  -13.3%  $1.81 $2.27
Claire's Stores said it expects fourth quarter earnings of 70 cents to 80
cents a share, well below analysts' earnings estimates of $1.12 a share,
because of disappointing November sales and the lack of momentum in December.
 The accessories retailer has warned of earnings shortfalls each quarter this
year. On Nov. 16 Claire's Stores had said it was comfortable with fourth
quarter projections of $1.16 a share.
Claire's Stores said it had started to see improvement in the Afterthoughts
unit, but the gains deteriorated "severely" in the last few weeks.  The
company expects Afterthoughts sales to remain weak in the first half of
fiscal 2002 as it redefines its strategy to differentiate the unit's concept
from that of Claire's stores.
JP Morgan downgraded its rating on Claire's Stores to long-term buy from buy
and PMG Capital cut its rating on the company to hold from long-term buy.
                                              Net     Pct    EPS    EPS
                                     Close   Change  Change  01E    02E
DELIA'S CORP. (DLIAD)                 1.44   +0.44  +43.75% ($1.91)($1.37)
Delia's Corp. authorized the repurchase of up to $2 million of common shares
in open-market or negotiated transactions. The company said it will fund the
buybacks with savings from recent cost-cutting initiatives in the Internet
businesses. Delia's is exploring further alternatives, including taking on
business partners for its Internet operations: Gurl.com, TheSpark.com,
SparkNotes.com and SparkMatch.com.
The company renegotiated its agreement with MarketSource, eliminating Delia's
commitment to spend $2.5 million in advertising services in 2001.
                                              Net     Pct    EPS    EPS
                                     Close   Change  Change  01E    02E
AMES DEPARTMENT STORES INC. (AMES)   1.78    Unch     Unch  ($1.03) $0.56
Ames Department Stores entered into an amendment and waiver agreement with
its lenders that waived any non-ompliance before Nov. 8, according to the
company's quarterly report filed late Tuesday with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. Ames said the amendment also reduced the line's fixed
charge coverage ratio requirements and permitted Ames to record restructuring
charges associated with closing 32 stores.
According to the filing, the covenants will now be tested quarterly rather
than monthly, as long as the company's availability remains above a specified
level.  As of Oct. 28, Ames had borrowings of $575.7 million outstanding
under the credit agreement.



17:50


Document ff00000020010806dwcd02am3
?
 

 Whirlpool Issues  Profit Warning , Plans 'Significant' Job Cuts 

567 words
13 December 2000
12:44
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 BENTON HARBOR, Mich. -- Whirlpool Corp. warned that fourth-quarter earnings will be well below Wall Street's lowered expectations because of weaker demand for its home appliances. The appliance maker also unveiled cost-cutting moves that include "significant" staff reductions world-wide. 

 "Appliance industry shipment declines in North America and a broad industry slowdown in Europe have been far more pronounced than previously forecasted," Whirlpool Chairman and Chief Executive Officer David R. Whitwam, said in a written statement. "Consequently, we now expect that our fourth-quarter 2000 earnings will approximate third-quarter 2000 levels." 

 In the third quarter, Whirlpool (WHR) reported earnings of $67 million, or 98 cents a diluted share, down 37% from a year earlier, on sales of $2.62 billion. In last year's fourth quarter, the company posted a profit of $113 million, or $1.51 a diluted share, on sales of $2.69 billion. 

 The company also said it will take a charge of $300 million to $350 million in 2001 to cover restructuring costs. Company spokesman Christopher Wyse said the company couldn't say exactly how many jobs would be cut, but he confirmed it could be as much as 10% of its work force of about 60,000 world-wide. 

 This is the second time Whirlpool issued a warning about fourth-quarter results. In late August, the company said it expected earnings of $1.45 to $1.55 a diluted share in the fourth quarter, citing softening demand and Circuit City's decision to stop selling appliances in favor of more profitable electronics equipment. Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial subsequently reduced their forecasts to $1.42 a share from $1.68 previously. 

 In addition to the staff reductions, Whirlpool said it will reduce its selling, general and administrative, or SGA, costs, by $100 million during the next two years. The cost cuts and work force reduction will yield annual saving of $225 to $250 million "when fully implemented," the company said. 

 Whirlpool based its new fourth-quarter outlook on expectations that the North American appliance market will be down 7% to 8% from the year-earlier fourth quarter. Previous company guidance was for a decline of only 2% to 3%. 

 "Whirlpool Europe continues to experience slowing market demand, intense pricing pressures and rising material costs. The resulting cost increases combined with lower sales prices are expected to pressure profit margins in the fourth quarter," the company said. 

 At the same time, Whirlpool said its Latin American business is showing signs of improvement, and Asia continues to report a strong performance. In fact, the company expects its Asian operations to post record revenue and earnings for the fourth quarter and the full year. 

 Whirlpool said it expects the "challenging" environment in North America and Europe to continue for most of the first half of 2001, before positive trends develop in the second half of the year. 

 For the full year 2001, Whirlpool expects North American shipments to be flat, while European shipments grow 2% and shipments in Latin America and Asia increase 5% to 8%. 

 Nevertheless, Whirlpool said it hopes to meet its goal of 15% earnings per-share growth for the full year 2001, excluding restructuring charges. 

 Analysts currently expect Whirlpool to earn $6.03 a share for 2001. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020020330dwcd01pel
?
 

 GM Europe Cuts Painful But Overdue Tonic For Mgmt Flaws 

 By Beth Reigber 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
927 words
13 December 2000
15:12
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 FRANKFURT -(Dow Jones)- General Motors Corp.'s (GM) deep cuts to its European operations will be painful for some, but observers reckon GM's problems are self-induced and this restructuring tonic is long overdue. 

 Massive job and capacity cuts at GM Europe will help restore profits and give GM - and peers - a boost as the European auto market softens, analysts said Wednesday. 

 A GM Europe spokesman said a softening market and shifting demand toward smaller cars were two reasons for its $181 million third-quarter loss and an anticipated fourth-quarter loss. However, analysts said GM can only partly blame these external forces. Instead, they argue management flaws and lethargic product development has put GM Europe in a much worse position than its competitors. 

 GM issued a profit warning Wednesday and pledged to cut 10% of salaried positions in Europe in 2001 and roughly 15%, or 5,000, of total employees in the next 18 months. While it plans to go ahead with a new, modern plant to replace its old plant at German unit Adam Opel AG (G.ADO) in Ruesselsheim, it will cut European capacity by more than 400,000 units by 2004, and Opel won't launch the new Omega V8 model next year, as it had planned. 

 Sure, these are drastic cuts, said Albrecht Denninghoff, HypoVereinsbank analyst in Munich, but "you can't see them as anything but good," he said. 

 After all, GM's European priorities have been askew, he said. He traces the long-distance management problems back to the parent company in Detroit in the 1990s. 

 "The central management didn't focus on Europe," said Denninghoff. "After Lopez, they cut costs, but they didn't invest in models as Volkswagen AG (G.VOW) did, for example." 

 That lack of focus turned out a batch of models that looked like 'me-toos' compared with European carmakers, analysts said, as it did for Ford Motor Co. (F), another manufacturer steered from Detroit. 

 The infamous Lopez scandal distracted GM management, said Denninghoff. Jose Ignacio Lopez de Arriortua, who had risen through the ranks at GM's European operations to became the company's vice president for purchasing in 1992, abruptly left to take a senior position at Volkswagen in 1993 and was alleged to have stolen trade secrets from GM. 

 But even now, Denninghoff said Opel still has definitive management problems. 


   Lethargic Product Development



As it became clearer it would see losses in the fourth quarter, market
rumors circulated that Opel Chairman Robert Hendry would be asked to
step down by the end of the year, though the company repeatedly rejects
that as speculation.



GM Europe is forced to close plants and cut capacity so much because
of those management problems, Denninghoff said. However, he reckons
better positioned competitors will only face temporary, relatively minor
cost cutting if the market declines further next year, as he thinks is
likely.



John Lawson, a London-based analyst at Schroder Salomon Smith Barney,
agrees that GM's management and lethargic product development is to
blame for its now dire position.



"Historically, it was one of the most profitable companies in Europe,"
he said. But lately "they haven't got it right."



In particular, he said "they have been a long, long way behind" on
diesel engines.



He points to a surge in diesel sales in Europe as evidence that GM
should have been more focused on keeping pace. He figures diesel sales
climbed about 20% in 1999 and are up 13% so far in 2000.



According to a former employee at Opel in Ruesselsheim, the discussion
of whether to move forward with diesel engines was drawn out and rankled
with European managers, who felt the idea was dismissed by American
management, who they claim lacked a feel for the European market.



But while it's too late to change that, Lawson said GM is now on the
right track for "getting in shape" with a quick recovery in Europe. It's
"cutting costs on the one hand and getting benefits from its Fiat SpA
(FIA) alliance on the other hand," Lawson said.



But GM Europe workers were angered by the restructuring. With GM's
Vauxhall operations in the U.K. taking the biggest blow - with more than
2,000 job cuts at the Luton factory north of London - union
representatives have already complained.



In their defense, observers said management had little choice if they
wanted to be profitable again quickly.



"It's always bad news when workers are made redundant," said Philipp
Rosengarten, analyst for German auto manufacturers at London's Standard
& Poors DRI. However, he said, the British pound's strength ravaged
earnings, and he sees little chance of the pound weakening.



Germany doesn't have that problem.



"Germany was quite lucky in terms of having a weak euro," he said.That
gives German-based operators a competitive advantage, even as the
domestic market declines. New car registrations in Germany are down
about 11% so far this year.



"But you can't do anything about the market," Rosengarten said. "You
have to think about the costs."



He said GM's moves should go far to remedy its European ills, and
should help restore confidence in the shares. At $51.75 at the close of
New York trading Tuesday, GM shares were way off their 52-week high of
$94.62.



-By Beth Reigber, Dow Jones Newswires; 49-69-297-255-00;
beth.reigber@dowjones.com


Document dji0000020010805dwcd060ml
?
 

 Swiss Car Suppliers Not Fazed By Sector's Bumpy Ride 

 By Martin Gelnar 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
543 words
13 December 2000
15:03
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 ZURICH -(Dow Jones)- Despite Delphi Automotive Systems Corp.'s (DPH) recent profit warning, Swiss car industry suppliers contend that the sector's woes will have little impact on their performance this year. 

 "Our order books are full and that shouldn't change as far as we can tell," Georg Fischer AG's (Z.FIS) group spokesman Markus Sauter told Dow Jones Newswires Wednesday. 

 He noted that Georg Fischer was number one among European car suppliers in the field of cast iron and light alloy components and also has significant operations in the U.S. 

 Swiss rival Rieter Holding AG (Z.RIE), one of the largest global producers of noise control systems for cars, said the industry slowdown hasn't changed the company's 2000 prospects. 

 "There shouldn't be any negative surprises," spokeswoman Barbara Meili said. She noted Rieter has said already said earlier that growth rates for its automotives business would slow in the the second half-year, while sales and earnings are expected to be above 1999 levels. 

 Rieter's automotive business posted first-half sales of CHF941 million with divisional staff numbering 7,594. 

 Georg Fischer's automotive division had sales of CHF743 million and a staff of 6,729 people in the first half-year 2000. Orders intake stood at CHF792 million. 

 Gurit-Heberlein AG's (Z.GUR) automotive division Gurit-Essex, a manufacturer of sealing, bonding and acoustics systems, said it remains optimistic. 

 "We see a (sales) growth of around 10% in 2001," Gurit-Essex's Chief Executive Paul Haelg said. 

 He added the company can capitalize on a car industry trend to maximize safety while reducing weight. 

 "Our products are exactly in line with market requirements," Haelg said, adding he expected the division to post 2000 sales of around CHF500 million. The division employs 900 people. 

 Gurit-Heberlein is in the process of selling its 50% stake in Gurit-Essex to co-owner Dow Chemical Co. (DOW). 

 Sika Finanz AG's (Z.SIK) automotive business, which among others manufactures glues for windshields, also says business is developing largely as planned. 

 "The decline in car sales hasn't had a sizeable impact on us so far," said Benno Arnold of Sika's investor relations, adding new product launches set off any easing tendency. 

 He said the group's car business won't be substantially affected in 2000. "But there may repercussions in the foreseeable future, no doubt," he said. 

 Of the group's nine-month sales of CHF1.5 billion, less than 10% percent were generated by its car industry supply business. 

 Delphi Tuesday said a slowdown in the automotive industry may lead to more job cuts and said it expects fourth-quarter and 2001 earnings to miss Wall Street estimates. 

 The car-parts supplier said earlier this month it would lay off 3% of its work force. 

 Meanwhile, the Association of European Auto Manufacturers, or ACEA, Wednesday said that West European new passenger car sales fell an annual 1% in November. 

 Company Web sites: http://www.georgfischer.com;www.rieter.com;www.sika.com

 -By Martin Gelnar, Dow Jones Newswires; +41 1 211 6588; martin.gelnar@dowjones.com 

Document dji0000020010805dwcd060lw
?
 

 N.Y. Stocks Mostly Lower As Profit Woes Zing Techs 

 By Robert O'Brien 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
1,458 words
13 December 2000
21:31
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- The Supreme Court fulfilled its role, handing down the decision that apparently resolved the deadlocked presidential election, but the rally in equities that had been widely anticipated didn't materialize, at least for high-technology stocks. 

 Instead, the sector fell victim to another spate of profit worries, after Compaq Computer dropped back to its lows for the year on a warning that earnings wouldn't live up to Wall Street's forecasts. 

 The stock slid back to $18.10 on a decline of $2.67, and dragged a number of other names in the sector down with it. Rival computer makers such as International Business Machines, which fell 2.63 to 91.25, Hewlett-Packard, which lost 2.06 to 33.19, and Dell Computer, which slipped 1.27 to 20.44 on the Nasdaq Stock Market, all lost ground on the session. 

 Server makers like Sun Microsystems also had a bad go of it in the session, as investors reacted to Compaq's warning that its products in the category had felt the pinch of pricing pressures. Shares of Sun lost 2.13 to 31.34 on Nasdaq, dropping down to a 52-week low of 31.50 intraday. Meanwhile, Veritas Software, whose storage-software products are used in server networks, declined 9.75 to 104.88 on Nasdaq, while Avocent, which makes remote-storage access equipment, slid 10.25 to 32.63 on Nasdaq. 

 With the group in distress, investors showed some caution about a host of technology products, raising profits in some of the higher-priced stocks that had rallied so impressively from their lows two weeks ago. Shares of Corning lost 2.44 to 72.50, while JDS Uniphase fell 1.69 to 64.69 on Nasdaq, and VeriSign dropped 10.06 to 102, also on Nasdaq. 

 But analysts said they saw some signs that the group, even with its volatility, has been trying to put in place a bottom from which to mount a real recovery. 

 "These stock came back down, it's true, but they're not going down to their lows of several weeks ago," Peter DaPuzzo, co-president of institutional equities at Cantor Fitzgerald, said Wednesday. "That suggests we're moving out of the bear-market cycle, and trying to push into the rally mode." 

 Of course, that rally wasn't apparent in the averages Wednesday. The Nasdaq Composite Index finished the session down 108.96, or 3.72%, at 2822.81. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fared better, closing higher by 26.17, or 0.24%, to reach 10794.44. 

 The final Dow Jones Industrial Average close was 10794.44, up 26.17. On the New York Stock Exchange, there were 1,386 issues advancing, 1,500 declining and 444 unchanged. 

 NYSE volume totaled 1,176,055,590 shares, compared with 1,068,783,490 Tuesday. 

 The NYSE Composite Index was 653.30, down 1.70. The average price per share fell 10 cents. 

 The victory for Gov. George W. Bush in the Supreme Court case that apparently settled the election stalemate in his favor did throw off some dividends for a handful of stocks. Shares of tobacco makers, such as Philip Morris, which gained 2.50 to 40.81, and RJR Tobacco Holdings, which advanced 4.25 to 45.94, notched gains on the session. 

 Some drug makers, another group expected to fare better with Bush rather than with Vice President Gore in the White House, also posted gains. Pfizer, for example, added 1.81 to 45.81, while Schering-Plough rose 2.13 to 57.88, and Merck inched up 63 cents to 92. Merck had told analysts Tuesday that it expected to live up to earnings forecasts. 

 Medical-device makers also acquitted themselves relatively well, with Johnson & Johnson adding 1.69 to 98.69, while Medtronic gained 2.06 to 56. But for whatever reason - that it proved too long in coming, still seemed fraught with anxiety because Gore hadn't spoken by the close of trading, or that something about the process or the outcome didn't sit well - there wasn't a rush to buy stocks. 

 "I think the outlook for interest rates, more so than getting closure on this election, is going to be the catalyst that takes stocks higher," Arthur Hogan, chief market analyst at Jefferies, said Wednesday. 

 In fact, several financial stocks, which have an exposure to interest rates, mounted gains in the session, as investors anticipated some encouraging turn from the Federal Reserve, which convenes a policy meeting Tuesday. 

 Shares of J.P. Morgan advanced 5.81 to 164.25, while its prospective merger partner Chase Manhattan added 1.50 to 44.50, and securities broker Goldman Sachs added 1.63 to 94.06. 

 However, financial services exposed to consumer spending, such as credit-card lenders, suffered setbacks, with Providian Financial off 2.69 to 45.63, and Capital One Financial down 1.56 to 58.06. 

 Semiconductor equipment stocks, which faded Tuesday after some cautious comments from Thomas Weisel Partners, faltered again, this time on some pessimistic remarks from an analyst at Merrill Lynch. 

 Shares of Applied Materials lost 2.81 to 42.69, while Lam Research dropped 1.50 to 16.56, Novellus lost 1.13 to 30.50, and Cymer retreated 1.44 to 26.63, all on the Nasdaq Stock Market. 

 Among chip maker themselves, shares of STMicroelectronics lost 2.56 to 45.50, after Credit Suisse First Boston, citing downbeat trends industrywide, cut its rating on the stock to reflect more cautious earnings expectations for the 2001 fiscal year. 

 Dell Computer fell 1.27 to 20.44 on Nasdaq, after Chase H&Q said it believes the computer maker could be the next in the sector to serve up an earnings warning. 

 Shares of several contract electronics manufacturers, which sell products to PC makers, skidded lower on the day. Flextronics lost 2.75 to 27.75, Jabil Circuit eased 2.44 to 33.69, Solectron dropped 2.40 to 28.61, and Sanmina slid 11.69 to 73.38. 

 The sell-off even caught some high-technology companies that offered what, on the face of it, seemed like good news. Nuance Communications, for example, a Menlo Park, Calif., maker of speech-recognition software, lost 10 to 55.25 on Nasdaq. Siebel Systems, a provider of electronic-commerce application software, said it agreed to license and integrate Nuance's technology for use in some of its products. Siebel shares also fell on the session, down 8.69 to 85.63 on Nasdaq. 

 RSA Security dropped 1.13 to 52 on Nasdaq, even though Thomas Weisel Partners started coverage of the Bedford, Mass., maker of computer-security products with a strong buy rating. 

 Acxiom gained 69 cents to 36.81 on Nasdaq. In a research note, CIBC World Markets said that a sell-off Tuesday in shares of the Little Rock, Ark., maker of database marketing products represents a buying opportunity. 

 Digex gained 3.05 to 29.25 on Nasdaq. Lehman Brothers started coverage of the Beltsville, Md., provider of Web hosting services with a buy rating, calling it a leader in the category of high-end hosting. 

 Whirlpool lost 2.75 to 41.44. The Benton Harbor, Mich., home appliance maker warned that its fourth-quarter earnings would fall short of what analysts had been projecting, blaming declining shipments in North America and an industry slowdown in Europe for the shortfall. 

 Rival Maytag also declined on the day, off 1.13 to 29.69. 

 Illinois Tool Works retreated 1.88 to 58.88. The Glenview, Ill., manufacturer of engineered components said that its fourth-quarter earnings wouldn't reach Wall Street's projections. 

 Lucent Technologies advanced for a third straight session, gaining 1.25 to 19.94, amid persistent rumors the telecommunications equipment maker is a takeover target. Speculation identified Finnish telecom equipment maker Nokia as a suitor; both Lucent and Nokia declined to comments. Nokia fell 1.81 to 48.13. France's Alcatel denied speculation it might make a bid. Alcatel's American depositary shares dropped 4.25 to 60. 

 Alza slid 2.31 to 37.44. Prudential Securities cut its rating on the Mountain View, Calif., pharmaceuticals maker, citing valuations. 

 QLT sank 6.63 to 40.44 on Nasdaq. Traders said rumors circulated that the Canadian drug maker had canceled plans to make a presentation at a conference next week, but the company said it expects to make that appearance. CIBC World Markets said it reiterated its rating on the stock, and called the decline a buying opportunity. 

5042

Document dj00000020010805dwcd04o06
?
 

 General Motors dumps Oldsmobile in latest restructuring plans. 

244 words
13 December 2000
Channelnewsasia
CNEWAS
English
(c) 2000 MediaCorp News Pte Ltd. All Rights Reserved

 General Motors announced a sweeping restructuring plan in the face of slower sales amid a cooling US economy. 

 The American auto maker said it would phase out Olds-mobile, America's oldest automotive brand, cut more than 16,000 jobs worldwide, besides warning it would miss profit forecasts. 

 This announcement is the latest blow to the US economy, given that both DaimlerChrysler and Ford Motor had sounded warnings earlier of lower profits as production schedules were slashed. 

 General Motors reported an eight percent decline in November sales compared to the same month in 1999 and warned that fourth quarter earnings would be lower than estimates, in light of lower sales and price pressures in Europe and Asia. It had invested $4 to $5 billion to revamp the Oldsmobile lineup over the past five years to make it more appealing to younger buyers, to no avail. 

 In yet another cost cutting measure by GM, operations in one of two plants in Luton, England, producing Vauxhall cars will cease in 2002. 

 General Motors says the drastic moves were aimed at boosting competitiveness and focusing activities on it's most commercially viable brands. 

 The automaker now expects to post fourth quarter net income of between US$550 and 600 million or US$1.10 to 1.20 per share. 

 Market analysts had expected fourth quarter results of US$1.70. 

 GM also lowered earnings expectations for the full year. 

Document cnewas0020010805dwcd002m1
?
 

 Business; Financial Desk 
 Markets Earnings Warnings Might Be Losing Shock Value 

From Bloomberg News, Times Staff
577 words
12 December 2000
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-4
English
 Copyright 2000 Los Angeles Times 

 Earnings warnings from major U.S. companies continue. But increasingly, they appear to be losing their ability to shock. 

 That could be another sign that the stock market has bottomed in the near term, analysts say. 

 On Monday, a number of major retailers warned that holiday sales are weaker than expected. But many of the stocks fell modestly, if at all. 

 Among those warning: 

 * Lowe's Cos. said profit this fiscal quarter and next year will miss forecasts as the slowing U.S. economy dampens home building and prompts consumers to put off house-remodeling projects. 

 The second-largest U.S. home-improvement chain expects earnings of 40 cents to 42 cents a share in the fourth quarter ending Feb. 2. Analysts' average estimate was 46 cents, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Yet the stock (LOW) closed up $1.94 at $41.81 after falling as low as $37.75. 

 Given the slowdown in consumer spending, "The fact that earnings will disappoint isn't a surprise," said David Buchsbaum, analyst at Wachovia Securities. 

 * Catalog retailer Lands' End Inc. said its earnings this year would fall or change little from last year. Previously, the catalog merchant said profit would rise. 

 The stock (LE), however, rose $2.88 to $26.95. 

 * Wal-Mart, the world's largest retailer, said sales at its discount and warehouse stores in the week ended Friday came in below company forecasts. 

 The results mark the second week in a row that sales have fallen short of the Bentonville, Ark.-based company's expectations. 

 The warning by Wal-Mart (WMT) seemed to resonate more with worried investors: The stock slumped $3.06 to $51.38. 

 Also falling were specialty retailers Pacific Sunwear (PSUN), down $2.13 to $23.25, and Hot Topic (HOTT), down $4.19 to $37, after analyst Richard Baum at Credit Suisse First Boston cut ratings on the shares, citing concerns that they may not be able to rise much amid slowing retail sales. 

 Outside the retail sector, other profit warnings on Monday seemed to fall on deaf--or at least tolerant--ears. 

 McDonald's Corp., the world's biggest restaurant chain, said profit this year will be at the lower end of forecasts because sales dropped in Europe amid a mad-cow disease scare and a weak euro. 

 Profit will rise 10% to 11%, not the 10% to 15% gain the company expected, said spokeswoman Anna Rozenich. 

 "It's mad-cow disease," said Howard Penney, an analyst at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter with a "strong buy" rating on McDonald's shares. "Consumers just have a little concern." 

 The stock (MCD), already down 26% this year, inched up Monday despite the warning. It added 44 cents to $29.94. 

 Also rising Monday despite a warning was Anadigics Inc., a maker of telecommunications chips. The company said fourth-quarter profit and revenue will be below forecasts because of a drop in orders and slower sales of its new amplifiers for fiber-optic networks. 

 The company expects a fourth-quarter loss of 3 cents a share. It was expected to break even, the average estimate of analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial. Revenue will be about $31 million. 

 Shares of Anadigics (ANAD) rose $1.19 to $21. They had been as high as $112 this year, and fell as low as $15.88 in late November. 

Document latm000020010808dwcc02hyf
?
 

 Companies: Lowe's Lowers Profit Outlook As Sales Slow --- Consumer Confidence Is Weaker, Firm Says 

 By Chad Terhune 
Staff Reporter
483 words
12 December 2000
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
4
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Lowe's Cos. lowered its profit outlook for the fourth quarter ending in February and for next year, citing slower sales since last month and uncertainty about a cooling U.S. economy. 

 The second-largest home-improvement retailer in the U.S., with 638 stores in 40 states, attributed the downturn to weakened consumer confidence amid the uncertainty about the presidential election and the recent stock-market decline. "We didn't see this slowdown coming," said Lowe's Chairman and Chief Executive Robert Tillman, adding: "We are building a business plan that is very conservative on the expense side." 

 Lowe's, based in North Carolina, said fourth-quarter earnings would be 40 U.S. cents to 42 U.S. cents (45 European cents to 47 European cents) per share. The consensus estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial had been 46 U.S. cents for the fourth quarter, which ends Feb. 2. In the year-earlier quarter, Lowe's had net income of $148.9 million, or 39 U.S. cents a share, on sales of $3.8 billion. 

 For next year, the company warned that earnings are expected to grow between 20% to 22%, down from the previous estimate of 22% to 23%. Lowe's had earlier warned that it faces an uphill battle to spur sales, and its shares were already trading near a 52-week low. As a result, Lowe's shares rose 4.9%, or $1.94, to $41.81 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. 

 For much of this year, Lowe's has been struggling with lower lumber prices and a sharp decline in same-store sales at 41 Eagle Hardware & Garden Inc. locations it took over on the West Coast last year. Those two factors remain a drag on the company's performance, but Lowe's said both areas are showing improvement. The larger concern is that sales storewide have been slowing since November with the exception of appliances, the company said. As a result, same-store sales in the fourth quarter are expected to drop 2% to 4%. 

 Some analysts don't think Lowe's profit warning bodes well for its larger rival, Home Depot Inc. In New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Home Depot shares fell 4.5%, or $2.12, to $45.12. 

 A Home Depot spokesman said the company hadn't revised its earlier forecast of a 4% increase in same-store sales for the fourth quarter. Faced with consumers who are putting off remodeling projects and spending less overall, Lowe's said it would focus on cutting costs, gaining market share from competitors and shifting its sales mix toward higher-margin products in home decor. Another 115 to 125 Lowe's stores are slated to open in 2001. 

Document wsje000020010814dwcc00j24
?
 

 Marketing & Media 
 Lowe's Cites Slow Sales, Economy As It Lowers Its Profit Outlook 

 By Chad Terhune 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
436 words
12 December 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
B12
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Lowe's Cos. lowered its profit outlook for its fiscal fourth quarter and next year, citing slower sales since last month and uncertainty about a cooling economy. 

 The country's second-largest home-improvement retailer, with 638 stores in 40 states, blamed the downturn on weakened consumer confidence amid the election uncertainty and the recent stock market decline. "We didn't see this slowdown coming," Lowe's Chairman and Chief Executive Robert Tillman said in a conference call with analysts. "We are building a business plan that is very conservative on the expense side," he said. 

 Lowe's, Wilkesboro, N.C., said quarterly earnings would be 40 cents to 42 cents a share. The consensus estimate of 22 analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial had been 46 cents for the period, which ends Feb. 2. A year earlier, Lowe's reported net income of $148.9 million, or 39 cents a diluted share, on sales of $3.8 billion. 

 For next year, the company warned that earnings should grow from 20% to 22%, down from the previous estimate of 22% to 23%. Lowe's had warned earlier that it faces an uphill battle to spur sales, and its shares were already trading near a 52-week low. As a result, Lowe's shares rose $1.94 to $41.81 as of 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. 

 For much of this year, Lowe's has been struggling with lower lumber prices and a sharp decline in same-store sales at 41 Eagle Hardware & Garden Inc. locations it took over on the West Coast last year. Those two factors remain a drag on the company's performance, but Lowe's said both areas are showing improvement. The larger concern is that sales storewide have been slowing since November with the exception of appliances, the company said. As a result, same-store sales for the fourth quarter are expected to drop 2% to 4%. 

 Some analysts don't think Lowe's profit warning bodes well for its larger rival, Home Depot Inc., Atlanta. As of 4 p.m. on the Big Board, Home Depot shares slipped $2.13 to $45.13. 

 "I have to believe Home Depot sales aren't going great guns either," said Mark Mandel, an analyst at Robinson Humphrey Co. "We are coming off a boom in home-improvement sales. The next couple quarters will be tough" for both Lowe's and Home Depot. 

Document j000000020010807dwcc00wdn
?
 

 Kodak will miss fourth-quarter earnings projection 

 By BEN DOBBIN 
Associated Press Writer
471 words
12 December 2000
17:08
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 ROCHESTER, N.Y. (AP) - For the second consecutive quarter, Eastman Kodak Co. lowered its earnings projections to reflect a sharp slowdown in film sales it blamed largely on a slowing U.S. economy. 

 The drop in U.S. film sales, from a growth rate of 7-8 percent to almost zero, "really started in September and it's carried through and gotten worse as we've gone through Thanksgiving," chief executive Dan Carp told Wall Street analysts and investors Tuesday. 

 The world's biggest photography company said fourth-quarter earnings are likely to be 65 to 75 cents per share compared with a previous projection of $1 to $1.15. That would be down 40 to 50 percent from the same period a year ago. 

 Carp said he expects the soft sales to persist through the first half of 2001 but improve in the second half. 

 Kodak will conserve cash by reducing capital expenditures by $200 million and by being fiscally conservative in other areas, including hiring, Carp said. Last month, Kodak reduced its share-repurchase program from nearly $10 million a day to about $1 million. 

 Despite the profit warning, investors appeared reassured by Kodak's plans to cut costs. The company's shares were up $2.50 at $42.06 in midday trading on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 The setbacks have come while Kodak is trying to overcome higher costs for raw materials, rising investments in digital photography and the adverse effect of a strong U.S. dollar in Europe. 

 After warning in September that third-quarter revenues would fall short of expectations, Kodak posted an 8 percent drop in third-quarter operating profits. Excluding charges, it earned $430 million, down from $466 million a year earlier. 

 For the full year, Kodak expects to earn $4.65 to $4.75, a 6-8 percent decline from 1999. 

 "Film is no different right now that many of the other consumer categories," Carp said at a meeting in New York. "We expect to ... to work through this bubble that's in the consumer business." 

 Chief financial officer Bob Brust added that "there's no evidence that slowing of growth in film rolls was anything to do with market share - it's just a general slowdown, so we're going to focus heavily on the balance sheet." 

 Eastman Kodak Co. spun off Eastman Chemical based in Kinsport, Tenn., into an independent, publicly traded company in January 1994. Eastman Chemical, founded in 1920 to supply photographic chemicals for Eastman Kodak, is Tennessee's largest manufacturing company, making and marketing more than 400 chemicals, fibers and plastics and employing about 8,500 at its headquarters. 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

 Kodak: http://www.kodak.com

 Eastman Chemical: http://www.eastman.com

Rush

Document aprs000020010804dwcc067hc
?
 

 Kodak will miss fourth-quarter earnings projection 

 By BEN DOBBIN 
Associated Press Writer
410 words
12 December 2000
16:10
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 ROCHESTER, N.Y. (AP) - For the second consecutive quarter, Eastman Kodak Co. lowered its earnings projections to reflect a sharp slowdown in film sales it blamed largely on a slowing U.S. economy. 

 The drop in U.S. film sales, from a growth rate of 7-8 percent to almost zero, "really started in September and it's carried through and gotten worse as we've gone through Thanksgiving," chief executive Dan Carp told Wall Street analysts and investors Tuesday. 

 The world's biggest photography company said fourth-quarter earnings are likely to be 65 to 75 cents per share compared with a previous projection of $1 to $1.15. That would be down 40 to 50 percent from the same period a year ago. 

 Carp said he expects the soft sales to persist through the first half of 2001 but improve in the second half. 

 Kodak will conserve cash by reducing capital expenditures by $200 million and by being fiscally conservative in other areas, including hiring, Carp said. Last month, Kodak reduced its share-repurchase program from nearly $10 million a day to about $1 million. 

 Despite the profit warning, investors appeared reassured by Kodak's plans to cut costs. The company's shares were up $2.19 at $41.75 in morning trading on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 The setbacks have come while Kodak is trying to overcome higher costs for raw materials, rising investments in digital photography and the adverse effect of a strong U.S. dollar in Europe. 

 After warning in September that third-quarter revenues would fall short of expectations, Kodak posted a 8 percent drop in third-quarter operating profits. Excluding charges, it earned $430 million, down from $466 million a year earlier. 

 For the full year, Kodak expects to earn $4.65 to $4.75, a 6-8 percent decline from 1999. 

 "Film is no different right now that many of the other consumer categories," Carp said at a meeting in New York. "We expect to ... to work through this bubble that's in the consumer business." 

 Chief financial officer Bob Brust added that "there's no evidence that slowing of growth in film rolls was anything to do with market share - it's just a general slowdown, so we're going to focus heavily on the balance sheet." 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

 Kodak site: http://www.kodak.com

Rush

Document aprs000020010804dwcc06792
?
 

 Kodak will miss fourth-quarter earnings projection 

 By BEN DOBBIN 
Associated Press Writer
414 words
12 December 2000
15:47
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2000.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 ROCHESTER, N.Y. (AP) - For the second consecutive quarter, Eastman Kodak Co. lowered its earnings projections to reflect a sharp slowdown in film sales it blamed largely on a slowing U.S. economy. 

 The drop in U.S. film sales, from a growth rate of 7-8 percent to almost zero, "really started in September and it's carried through and gotten worse as we've gone through Thanksgiving," chief executive Dan Carp told Wall Street analysts and investors Tuesday. 

 The world's biggest photography company said fourth-quarter earnings are likely to be 65 to 75 cents per share compared with a previous projection of $1 to $1.15. That would be down 40 to 50 percent from the same period a year ago. 

 Carp said he expects the soft sales to persist through the first half of 2001 but improve in the second half. 

 Kodak will conserve cash by reducing capital expenditures by $200 million and by being fiscally conservative in other areas, including hiring, Carp said. Last month, Kodak reduced its share-repurchase program from nearly $10 million a day to about $1 million. 

 Despite the profit warning, investors appeared reassured by Kodak's plans to cut costs. The company's shares were up $1.50, or almost 4 percent, to close at $41.06 Tuesday on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 The setbacks have come while Kodak is trying to overcome higher costs for raw materials, rising investments in digital photography and the adverse effect of a strong U.S. dollar in Europe. 

 After warning in September that third-quarter revenues would fall short of expectations, Kodak posted a 8 percent drop in third-quarter operating profits. Excluding charges, it earned $430 million, down from $466 million a year earlier. 

 For the full year, Kodak expects to earn $4.65 to $4.75, a 6-8 percent decline from 1999. 

 "Film is no different right now that many of the other consumer categories," Carp said at a meeting in New York. "We expect to ... to work through this bubble that's in the consumer business." 

 Chief financial officer Bob Brust added that "there's no evidence that slowing of growth in film rolls was anything to do with market share - it's just a general slowdown, so we're going to focus heavily on the balance sheet." 

 --- 

 On the Net: 

 Kodak site: http://www.kodak.com

Urgent

Document aprs000020010804dwcc06764
?
 

 Delphi Automotive Issues  Profit Warning  Amid Slowdown in Auto Industry 

572 words
12 December 2000
14:45
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 TROY, Mich. -- Delphi Automotive Systems Corp. expects fourth-quarter and 2001 earnings to miss Wall Street estimates as a slowdown in the automotive industry begins to cut into the auto-parts supplier's profit. 

 Delphi (DPH), which earlier this month said it would lay off 3% of its work force in response to dwindling orders from auto makers, also said Tuesday that it is likely to lay off more employees and exit some businesses. 

 The company expects fourth-quarter earnings of $175 million to $200 million, or 31 cents to 35 cents a share, and anticipates revenue of $6.8 billion to $6.9 billion. Analysts had expected the company to earn 44 cents a share in the period, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 It projects 2001 earnings of $800 million to $900 million, or $1.42 to $1.68 a share. Analysts had expected it to earn $1.78 a share for 2001. The company expects to report sales of $28 billion to $29 billion, which is unchanged to slightly lower than sales it anticipates in 2000. 

 "The automotive industry faced several challenges in 2000, including declining aftermarket and commercial-vehicle sales, and the recent downturn in new vehicle sales," J.T. Battenberg III, Delphi's chairman, chief executive and president, said in a prepared statement. "We have also experienced unfavorable exchange rates in Europe and the impact of exchange rates on wage increases in Mexico," Mr. Battenberg added. 

 Delphi said in a conference call Tuesday that it plans to shift its business toward high-technology solutions that will allow the highest return on investment. The company has exited about $7 billion worth of businesses since late 1992. 

 Delphi plans to fix, sell or close $4 billion to $5 billion of businesses that fail to meet long-term strategic criteria, such as leading market position, potential for segment growth, strong financial performance and high-technology content. The company wouldn't specify all the businesses in question, but it said it is looking at several options for its generator business. 

 In addition to the layoff of 1,700 employees, or 3% of its work force, announced earlier this month, more job cuts are likely as the automotive industry softens, Alan Dawes, Delphi's chief financial officer, said in the conference call. He didn't say how many more layoffs would occur. 

 Mr. Battenberg said in the conference call that Delphi wouldn't meet its net margin goal for 2000 of 4%. Instead, the company's net margin should reach 3.7% to 3.8%. 

 Delphi projects fourth-quarter operating cash flow of $400 million to $500 million and expects 2000 operating cash flow above the $1.5 billion that the company had projected at the beginning of the year. It anticipates operating cash flow of $1.2 billion to $1.6 billion in 2001. 

 The company will use operating cash flow and possibly some of its debt capacity to make strategic acquisitions. It is also considering a stock buyback in the first quarter of 2001 because of low valuations in the sector. 

 Delphi's warning follows auto sales that reached an 18-month low in November. The decline has forced General Motors Corp. (GM), Ford Motor Co. (F) and DaimlerChrysler AG (DCX) to slash production as consumers downshift their spending. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dwcc01pam
?
 

 N.Y. Stocks End Mixed; For Tech, Third Time No Charm 

 By Robert O'Brien 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
1,318 words
12 December 2000
21:26
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- One day proved easy, two days manageable, but sending the Nasdaq Composite Index higher for a third straight session turned out to be impossible, given the current climate for high technology. 

 Another spate of profit warnings caused high-tech stocks to sag once again, leaving market averages exposed to the sector weaker on the day. 

 Shares of Dallas Semiconductor fell $8 to $26, sinking to a 52-week low, after the chip maker warned late Monday that its fourth-quarter profits would trail analysts' targets. Another chip maker, Microchip Technology, issued its own forecast of a shortfall late Monday, as well; its shares dropped 1.75 to 25.06 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. 

 Not all the companies warning of shortfalls saw their stocks punished, though. Advanced Micro Devices, a rival of chip giant Intel, said it wouldn't live up to projections. However, its shares traded higher intraday, and finished down just 6 cents at 17.25. Internet advertising concern DoubleClick managed to finish in the black, up 1.95 to 13.89 on Nasdaq, after it said the continued slowdown in ad spending online would hurt its profit performance in the fourth quarter. 

 Nevertheless, the Nasdaq Composite Index, which rode a two-day rally into the trading session, couldn't complete the trifecta; it fell 83.20, or 2.76%, to 2931.90. It has been more than three months - since the three-day period ended Sept. 1 - since the Nasdaq composite managed to notch gains for three consecutive days. 

 "We've been in a straight line up since we hit the low on Nov. 30," said Mark Donahoe, managing director of institutional sales trading at U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray. He added that frustration over the continuing uncertainty about the outcome of the presidential election fed the pessimism in the session. 

 "Investors really wanted to see a decision handed down," Donahoe said. 

 Outside high technology, the profit performance proved to be mixed, with some good news sprinkled in amid the pessimism. The Dow Jones Industrial Average managed to finish the session with some gains, up 42.47, or 0.40%, at 10768.27. 

 The final Dow Jones Industrial Average close was 10768.27, up 42.47. On the New York Stock Exchange, there were 1,282 issues advancing, 1,596 declining and 456 unchanged. 

 NYSE volume totaled 1,068,783,490 shares, compared with 1,202,570,830 Monday. 

 The NYSE Composite Index was 655.00, down 2.53. The average price per share fell 15 cents. 

 Investors heard some encouraging news about earnings from Procter & Gamble. The Cincinnati consumer products giant said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission that it expects fiscal 2001 earnings to live up to its previous forecasts. The stock gained 2.88 to 71.94. 

 Colgate-Palmolive, another big consumer-products maker, moved ahead 2.43 to 58.98, after the company said it would live up to analysts' profit projections for the fourth quarter. 

 Eastman Kodak also managed to finish in the black, gaining 1.50 to 41.06, even though the Rochester, N.Y., photography products concern warned that declining consumer demand would hurt its profits for the fourth quarter. Traders said the stock, which has traded in range of its 52-week low of 35.31, benefitted from investors who held short positions in Kodak shares - essentially, bets the stock price would decline - having to buy stock in the market to cover those positions. 

 Auto-parts maker Delphi Automotive also managed to finish higher in the face of a profit warning. The stock gained 50 cents to 12.25, after having reached a 52-week low Monday at 11.50. The Troy, Mich., manufacturer warned that its earnings would fall short of projections. 

 Shares of Honeywell dropped 3.06 to 52.13, after the manufacturer's forecast late Monday that it believes its fourth-quarter revenues and earnings will prove to be substantially weaker than it previously forecast. 

 Honeywell took its prospective purchaser, General Electric, down as well. GE shares fell 2.50 to 52.81, even though the company offered up an upbeat outlook to analysts attending a dinner the company sponsored Monday. Credit Suisse First Boston left its "buy" rating on the stock unchanged, but it did make some cautious comments about concerns that GE revenues exposed to consumer spending could be hurt by weakness in economic growth. 

 Shares of Merrill Lynch declined 1.88 to 70.38, while brokerage Legg Mason lost 2.44 to 54.06, after Keefe Bruyette & Woods trimmed its estimates of the companies' quarterly earnings. 

 Artesyn Technologies dropped 13.63 to 29.50 on Nasdaq. Thomas Weisel Partners cut its rating on the stock of the Boca Raton, Fla., maker of power systems for PCs and communications products, citing concerns there has been a buildup of inventories of its finished goods. 

 Power-One, a Camarillo, Calif., maker of products similar to Artesyn's offerings, also lost ground on the day, falling 6.75 to 62.13 on Nasdaq. 

 Commerce One fell 3.38 to 40.38 on Nasdaq. The Pleasanton, Calif., provider of business-to-business electronic-commerce software unveiled the details of an infrastructure pact with Covisint, the online parts exchange of the Big Three auto makers, that gives General Motors and Ford Motor a $1.26 billion stake in the company. 

 General Motors added 19 cents to 51.75. The auto maker announced that it plans to phase out its Oldsmobile brand, as well as other details of a restructuring effort. 

 Shares of Ford Motor eased 25 cents to 23.63, near their 52-week low. 

 Ariba dropped 10.19 to 76.69 on Nasdaq, after Lehman Brothers expressed some reservations about the Mountain View, Calif., electronic-commerce products maker's valuation. 

 Triquint Semiconductor sank 12.13 to 49.31 on Nasdaq. Credit Suisse First Boston cut its rating on the Hillsboro, Ore., maker of integrated circuits, citing concerns about the company's exposure to customers in the telecommunications-equipment sector whose own growth has slowed. In a rebuttal, CIBC World Markets said it thinks the decline in Triquint's price represents a buying opportunity, adding that it expects the company to guide earnings estimates higher at an analyst conference scheduled for Dec. 19. 

 Several semiconductor equipment makers lost ground in the session after Thomas Weisel Partners issued a downbeat forecast for capital spending in the sector. Shares of Applied Materials lost 5.44 to 45.50, Lam Research declined 1.94 to 18.06, and Novellus dropped 3.75 to 31.63, all on Nasdaq. 

 McDonald's managed to finish higher, gaining 94 cents to 30.88, even though analysts at J.P. Morgan and at Salomon Smith Barney trimmed earnings forecasts for the fast-food chain, citing the impact Europe's "mad cow" disease could have on its performance. At a conference for investors on Monday, McDonald's officials acknowledged  that earnings would come in at the low end of analysts' range of forecasts. 

 Rohm & Haas lost 1.13 to 30.38. Lehman Brothers, in a research note, preached caution about investing in the stock until the company releases its fourth-quarter earnings. 

 Alcan Aluminum eased 31 cents to 32.94. The Canadian metals concern warned that it wouldn't live up to analysts' earnings expectations. 

 Maxim Pharmaceuticals sank 13.31 to 16.75 on Nasdaq. The San Diego drug developer faces a Food and Drug Administration panel review for one of its products. 

 Millennium Pharmaceuticals fell 7.19 to 57.25 on Nasdaq, ahead of an FDA panel review of the Cambridge, Mass., drug maker's request for approval of its Campath treatment for chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The review is expected to take place Thursday. 

5042

Document dj00000020010805dwcc04m7t
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Why Hold BKHM When Target Is Less Than Price? 

1,340 words
12 December 2000
18:33
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



1:34 (Dow Jones) From the please don't do me anymore favors
department: UBS Warburg initiated coverage on London-based optical
component maker Bookham Technology (BKHM) with a hold rating. Analyst
Joseph Wolf, while noting the promise of the company's unique silicon on
silicon manufacturing approach for planar arrayed waveguides, set a
12-month price target of $18 for the stock. Bookham's stock began the
day trading at $20.25 and has fallen steadily since. Wolf said he
prefers to remain on the sidelines until the company's sales visibility
in the arrayed waveguide area improves. (JDB)



1:26 (Dow Jones) A lot of emphasis recently has been put on picking
the right sectors. Choosing the right market cap has been helpful, as
well. The S&P 400 Midcap Index has held up much better than most others,
says Ron Taylor of Schaeffer's Investment Management. Year-to-date, the
index is up 19%, versus a 6% loss for the S&P 500, a 4% drop for the
Russell 2000, and a 36% fall on the Nasdaq Composite. On a closing
basis, the MID's most severe drawdown from its Sept. peak was 12.4%,
compared to a 13.5% drop in the S&P 500 and a 38% decline in the Nasdaq.
(TG)



1:12 (Dow Jones) Lehman's outperform rating on Commerce One (CMRC)
reflects brokerage firm's appreciation of the company's growth strategy,
but is tempered by belief that CMRC faces critical transition over next
two to three quarters. Catalysts in future would be major milestones for
company's industry consortia clients and increasing network revenue.
Price target is $55. (TG)



1:05 (Dow Jones) Prudential reiterates hold on Nordstrom (JWN), citing
lack of earnings visibility. Company lowered comp-store sales views in
meeting with analysts recently, and Prudential trimmed 4Q view to 42c
from 44c a share, 2000 estimate to $1.25 from $1.27, and 2001 view to
$1.40 from $1.43. (TG)



12:35 (Dow Jones) Tyson (TSN) pitches its surprise cash tender for IBP
(IBP), saying it "starts the clock" on regulatory concerns. "We have a
high degree of confidence regarding issues that might be raised," its
CFO says. The poultry giant wants "the Procter and Gamble effect of
managing the whole (protein) category." (RLG)



12:23 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps are quietly weaker in mild volume, floor
traders say, still awaiting news from the Supreme Court. Rolling of
positions is the main feature, they add. "About half the volume has been
in the roll," one floor trader says. March Nasdaq under slightly more
pressure due to profit taking, he adds. (DMC)



12:20 (Dow Jones) Just like rival Intel (INTC), news of Advanced Micro
Devices (AMD) 4Q warning didn't wreck havoc on the stock. In fact, the
stock is actually up 1.4%, even though AMD said after the close of
trading Monday that it expects to report sales that are unchanged or
only slightly higher than the $1.21 billion reported for the third
quarter. When Intel warned, its stock too reacted by climbing. Maybe
more tech companies, who need to boost their stocks, ought to
pre-announce. (DLF)



12:15 (Dow Jones) Analysts continue to weigh in on beleaguered Yahoo!
(YHOO). A day after a rating downgrade and cautious analyst comments
sent the shares lower, Prudential Securities' Mark Rowen says enough is
enough. Maintaining his strong buy rating, Rowen says expectations of
weak advertising revenue in Yahoo's 4Q are already priced into the
stock. Yahoo could squeak by 4Q estimates, but the company could lower
expectations for 2001. Still, Rowen says that when investors become more
optimistic, they will recognize Yahoo as a cheap stock. He has a $90
price target. (PDL)



12:11 (Dow Jones) Salomon says that while high-yield telecom market is
in state of turmoil, there is tremendous opportunity for above-average
returns in bonds of 'A' tier players. Its list of these names includes:
ABIZ, ALGX, FCOM, MCLD, TWTC, WCII, XOXO, FTHL, GX, LVLT, MFNX, and WCG.
(TG)



11:57 (Dow Jones) Chicago floor participants are a hearty stock, but
historical figures indicate just how dramatic the Windy City's snow
accumulation has been. According to the Chicago Sun-Times, Chicago
usually sees an average of 8.8 inches for the whole month of December.
Last night, the city received 12-14 inches of snow in one evening alone.
This all happened amid windchills upwards of 40-below. (CMN)



11:54 (Dow Jones) Scott & Stringfelllow's Dick Dickson isn't
concentrating on Nasdaq Composite's downside risk, which he now sees as
minimal. Instead, he's looking at upside potential, and says a close
above 3025 on heavy volume can bring index up to 3500-3800 level.
Expects market to work its way higher in next several weeks, led by
techs and finance. (TG)



11:39 (Dow Jones) Unofficial price talk for $2 billion WorldCom (WCOM)
issue sees yields about 190 bp over two-year Treasurys for a 10-year
tranche with a 2-year put/call and 215 bp over Treasurys for 5-year
tranche. (DA)



11:27 (Dow Jones) Five names favored by Prudential's chief technician,
Ralph Acampora: Qualcomm (QCOM), Unisys (UIS), Home Depot (HD), Wal-Mart
(WMT), and Dime Bancorp (DME). (TG)



11:11 (Dow Jones) Treasurys have shaved off some of their earlier
declines after Nasdaq began falling, but are still in negative
territory. Still, the Supreme Court vigil is keeping trade subdued.
(MSD)



10:59 (Dow Jones) The news coming out of General Motors (GM) is
knocking just a bit out of the stock. Some news already reported in
Journal, but the 4Q profit warning is a new revelation. Says 4Q net to
come in between $1.10 a share and $1.20 before items. Shares up 2.9%
after bigger gains earlier. (TG)



10:51 (Dow Jones) Improvement in Eastman Kodak (EK) shares Tuesday
being called "a marvel of short covering" by one well-connected trader.
Given the downbeat outlook for the 4Q - company guided to as low as 65
cents, from consensus $1.07 - and the full year, trader says there is no
fundamental rationale for getting into Kodak now. (ROB)



10:48 (Dow Jones) New open interest records were set for some CME
equity contracts. Nasdaq 100 set an open interest record of 58258,
surpassing the former record of 53656 set on Dec. 5. S&P 500 open
interest was 533476, breaking a record of 526315 made on Friday. S&P
Midcap also set an open interest record of 21138, vs. the former record
of 21024 set on Dec. 21, 1998. S&P Midcap also set a volume record of
7092, above the former record of 6593 made on Sept. 13, 1999. (DMC)



10:45 (Dow Jones) Philip Morris (MO) hires Salomon Smith Barney and
CSFB to lead IPO of Kraft, sources say. (ROB)



10:42 (Dow Jones) NAPM survey shows investment plans way down.
Manufacturing investment growth, projected at 4.9% in 2000, seen at 1.8%
in 2001. Notable that 2000 projection is itself the slowest increase
since 1991. Meanwhile, non-manufacturing investment seen up 6.0% in
2000, but up just 1.5% in 2001. (MC)



10:39 (Dow Jones) Wall Street has gotten used to big tech names
preannouncing weak numbers in recent weeks. Well, Tuesday's session,
while still containing some bleak views, has provided some better news
from a diverse group of huge names: Procter & Gamble (PG), Merck (MRK),
and General Electic (GE) all have backed numbers in some form. P&G and
Merck are helping the DJIA outperform Nasdaq, but GE is the blue-chip
barometer's second-worst-performing name, down 5%. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwcc04lqc
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Midcaps Have Been Place To Be This Year 

1,239 words
12 December 2000
18:27
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



1:26 (Dow Jones) A lot of emphasis recently has been put on picking
the right sectors. Choosing the right market cap has been helpful, as
well. The S&P 400 Midcap Index has held up much better than most others,
says Ron Taylor of Schaeffer's Investment Management. Year-to-date, the
index is up 19%, versus a 6% loss for the S&P 500, a 4% drop for the
Russell 2000, and a 36% fall on the Nasdaq Composite. On a closing
basis, the MID's most severe drawdown from its Sept. peak was 12.4%,
compared to a 13.5% drop in the S&P 500 and a 38% decline in the Nasdaq.
(TG)



1:12 (Dow Jones) Lehman's outperform rating on Commerce One (CMRC)
reflects brokerage firm's appreciation of the company's growth strategy,
but is tempered by belief that CMRC faces critical transition over next
two to three quarters. Catalysts in future would be major milestones for
company's industry consortia clients and increasing network revenue.
Price target is $55. (TG)



1:05 (Dow Jones) Prudential reiterates hold on Nordstrom (JWN), citing
lack of earnings visibility. Company lowered comp-store sales views in
meeting with analysts recently, and Prudential trimmed 4Q view to 42c
from 44c a share, 2000 estimate to $1.25 from $1.27, and 2001 view to
$1.40 from $1.43. (TG)



12:35 (Dow Jones) Tyson (TSN) pitches its surprise cash tender for IBP
(IBP), saying it "starts the clock" on regulatory concerns. "We have a
high degree of confidence regarding issues that might be raised," its
CFO says. The poultry giant wants "the Procter and Gamble effect of
managing the whole (protein) category." (RLG)



12:23 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps are quietly weaker in mild volume, floor
traders say, still awaiting news from the Supreme Court. Rolling of
positions is the main feature, they add. "About half the volume has been
in the roll," one floor trader says. March Nasdaq under slightly more
pressure due to profit taking, he adds. (DMC)



12:20 (Dow Jones) Just like rival Intel (INTC), news of Advanced Micro
Devices (AMD) 4Q warning didn't wreck havoc on the stock. In fact, the
stock is actually up 1.4%, even though AMD said after the close of
trading Monday that it expects to report sales that are unchanged or
only slightly higher than the $1.21 billion reported for the third
quarter. When Intel warned, its stock too reacted by climbing. Maybe
more tech companies, who need to boost their stocks, ought to
pre-announce. (DLF)



12:15 (Dow Jones) Analysts continue to weigh in on beleaguered Yahoo!
(YHOO). A day after a rating downgrade and cautious analyst comments
sent the shares lower, Prudential Securities' Mark Rowen says enough is
enough. Maintaining his strong buy rating, Rowen says expectations of
weak advertising revenue in Yahoo's 4Q are already priced into the
stock. Yahoo could squeak by 4Q estimates, but the company could lower
expectations for 2001. Still, Rowen says that when investors become more
optimistic, they will recognize Yahoo as a cheap stock. He has a $90
price target. (PDL)



12:11 (Dow Jones) Salomon says that while high-yield telecom market is
in state of turmoil, there is tremendous opportunity for above-average
returns in bonds of 'A' tier players. Its list of these names includes:
ABIZ, ALGX, FCOM, MCLD, TWTC, WCII, XOXO, FTHL, GX, LVLT, MFNX, and WCG.
(TG)



11:57 (Dow Jones) Chicago floor participants are a hearty stock, but
historical figures indicate just how dramatic the Windy City's snow
accumulation has been. According to the Chicago Sun-Times, Chicago
usually sees an average of 8.8 inches for the whole month of December.
Last night, the city received 12-14 inches of snow in one evening alone.
This all happened amid windchills upwards of 40-below. (CMN)



11:54 (Dow Jones) Scott & Stringfelllow's Dick Dickson isn't
concentrating on Nasdaq Composite's downside risk, which he now sees as
minimal. Instead, he's looking at upside potential, and says a close
above 3025 on heavy volume can bring index up to 3500-3800 level.
Expects market to work its way higher in next several weeks, led by
techs and finance. (TG)



11:39 (Dow Jones) Unofficial price talk for $2 billion WorldCom (WCOM)
issue sees yields about 190 bp over two-year Treasurys for a 10-year
tranche with a 2-year put/call and 215 bp over Treasurys for 5-year
tranche. (DA)



11:27 (Dow Jones) Five names favored by Prudential's chief technician,
Ralph Acampora: Qualcomm (QCOM), Unisys (UIS), Home Depot (HD), Wal-Mart
(WMT), and Dime Bancorp (DME). (TG)



11:11 (Dow Jones) Treasurys have shaved off some of their earlier
declines after Nasdaq began falling, but are still in negative
territory. Still, the Supreme Court vigil is keeping trade subdued.
(MSD)



10:59 (Dow Jones) The news coming out of General Motors (GM) is
knocking just a bit out of the stock. Some news already reported in
Journal, but the 4Q profit warning is a new revelation. Says 4Q net to
come in between $1.10 a share and $1.20 before items. Shares up 2.9%
after bigger gains earlier. (TG)



10:51 (Dow Jones) Improvement in Eastman Kodak (EK) shares Tuesday
being called "a marvel of short covering" by one well-connected trader.
Given the downbeat outlook for the 4Q - company guided to as low as 65
cents, from consensus $1.07 - and the full year, trader says there is no
fundamental rationale for getting into Kodak now. (ROB)



10:48 (Dow Jones) New open interest records were set for some CME
equity contracts. Nasdaq 100 set an open interest record of 58258,
surpassing the former record of 53656 set on Dec. 5. S&P 500 open
interest was 533476, breaking a record of 526315 made on Friday. S&P
Midcap also set an open interest record of 21138, vs. the former record
of 21024 set on Dec. 21, 1998. S&P Midcap also set a volume record of
7092, above the former record of 6593 made on Sept. 13, 1999. (DMC)



10:45 (Dow Jones) Philip Morris (MO) hires Salomon Smith Barney and
CSFB to lead IPO of Kraft, sources say. (ROB)



10:42 (Dow Jones) NAPM survey shows investment plans way down.
Manufacturing investment growth, projected at 4.9% in 2000, seen at 1.8%
in 2001. Notable that 2000 projection is itself the slowest increase
since 1991. Meanwhile, non-manufacturing investment seen up 6.0% in
2000, but up just 1.5% in 2001. (MC)



10:39 (Dow Jones) Wall Street has gotten used to big tech names
preannouncing weak numbers in recent weeks. Well, Tuesday's session,
while still containing some bleak views, has provided some better news
from a diverse group of huge names: Procter & Gamble (PG), Merck (MRK),
and General Electic (GE) all have backed numbers in some form. P&G and
Merck are helping the DJIA outperform Nasdaq, but GE is the blue-chip
barometer's second-worst-performing name, down 5%. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwcc04lpp
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Lehman Price Target On Commerce One $55 

1,118 words
12 December 2000
18:12
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



1:12 (Dow Jones) Lehman's outperform rating on Commerce One (CMRC)
reflects brokerage firm's appreciation of the company's growth strategy,
but is tempered by belief that CMRC faces critical transition over next
two to three quarters. Catalysts in future would be major milestones for
company's industry consortia clients and increasing network revenue.
Price target is $55. (TG)



1:05 (Dow Jones) Prudential reiterates hold on Nordstrom (JWN), citing
lack of earnings visibility. Company lowered comp-store sales views in
meeting with analysts recently, and Prudential trimmed 4Q view to 42c
from 44c a share, 2000 estimate to $1.25 from $1.27, and 2001 view to
$1.40 from $1.43. (TG)



12:35 (Dow Jones) Tyson (TSN) pitches its surprise cash tender for IBP
(IBP), saying it "starts the clock" on regulatory concerns. "We have a
high degree of confidence regarding issues that might be raised," its
CFO says. The poultry giant wants "the Procter and Gamble effect of
managing the whole (protein) category." (RLG)



12:23 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps are quietly weaker in mild volume, floor
traders say, still awaiting news from the Supreme Court. Rolling of
positions is the main feature, they add. "About half the volume has been
in the roll," one floor trader says. March Nasdaq under slightly more
pressure due to profit taking, he adds. (DMC)



12:20 (Dow Jones) Just like rival Intel (INTC), news of Advanced Micro
Devices (AMD) 4Q warning didn't wreck havoc on the stock. In fact, the
stock is actually up 1.4%, even though AMD said after the close of
trading Monday that it expects to report sales that are unchanged or
only slightly higher than the $1.21 billion reported for the third
quarter. When Intel warned, its stock too reacted by climbing. Maybe
more tech companies, who need to boost their stocks, ought to
pre-announce. (DLF)



12:15 (Dow Jones) Analysts continue to weigh in on beleaguered Yahoo!
(YHOO). A day after a rating downgrade and cautious analyst comments
sent the shares lower, Prudential Securities' Mark Rowen says enough is
enough. Maintaining his strong buy rating, Rowen says expectations of
weak advertising revenue in Yahoo's 4Q are already priced into the
stock. Yahoo could squeak by 4Q estimates, but the company could lower
expectations for 2001. Still, Rowen says that when investors become more
optimistic, they will recognize Yahoo as a cheap stock. He has a $90
price target. (PDL)



12:11 (Dow Jones) Salomon says that while high-yield telecom market is
in state of turmoil, there is tremendous opportunity for above-average
returns in bonds of 'A' tier players. Its list of these names includes:
ABIZ, ALGX, FCOM, MCLD, TWTC, WCII, XOXO, FTHL, GX, LVLT, MFNX, and WCG.
(TG)



11:57 (Dow Jones) Chicago floor participants are a hearty stock, but
historical figures indicate just how dramatic the Windy City's snow
accumulation has been. According to the Chicago Sun-Times, Chicago
usually sees an average of 8.8 inches for the whole month of December.
Last night, the city received 12-14 inches of snow in one evening alone.
This all happened amid windchills upwards of 40-below. (CMN)



11:54 (Dow Jones) Scott & Stringfelllow's Dick Dickson isn't
concentrating on Nasdaq Composite's downside risk, which he now sees as
minimal. Instead, he's looking at upside potential, and says a close
above 3025 on heavy volume can bring index up to 3500-3800 level.
Expects market to work its way higher in next several weeks, led by
techs and finance. (TG)



11:39 (Dow Jones) Unofficial price talk for $2 billion WorldCom (WCOM)
issue sees yields about 190 bp over two-year Treasurys for a 10-year
tranche with a 2-year put/call and 215 bp over Treasurys for 5-year
tranche. (DA)



11:27 (Dow Jones) Five names favored by Prudential's chief technician,
Ralph Acampora: Qualcomm (QCOM), Unisys (UIS), Home Depot (HD), Wal-Mart
(WMT), and Dime Bancorp (DME). (TG)



11:11 (Dow Jones) Treasurys have shaved off some of their earlier
declines after Nasdaq began falling, but are still in negative
territory. Still, the Supreme Court vigil is keeping trade subdued.
(MSD)



10:59 (Dow Jones) The news coming out of General Motors (GM) is
knocking just a bit out of the stock. Some news already reported in
Journal, but the 4Q profit warning is a new revelation. Says 4Q net to
come in between $1.10 a share and $1.20 before items. Shares up 2.9%
after bigger gains earlier. (TG)



10:51 (Dow Jones) Improvement in Eastman Kodak (EK) shares Tuesday
being called "a marvel of short covering" by one well-connected trader.
Given the downbeat outlook for the 4Q - company guided to as low as 65
cents, from consensus $1.07 - and the full year, trader says there is no
fundamental rationale for getting into Kodak now. (ROB)



10:48 (Dow Jones) New open interest records were set for some CME
equity contracts. Nasdaq 100 set an open interest record of 58258,
surpassing the former record of 53656 set on Dec. 5. S&P 500 open
interest was 533476, breaking a record of 526315 made on Friday. S&P
Midcap also set an open interest record of 21138, vs. the former record
of 21024 set on Dec. 21, 1998. S&P Midcap also set a volume record of
7092, above the former record of 6593 made on Sept. 13, 1999. (DMC)



10:45 (Dow Jones) Philip Morris (MO) hires Salomon Smith Barney and
CSFB to lead IPO of Kraft, sources say. (ROB)



10:42 (Dow Jones) NAPM survey shows investment plans way down.
Manufacturing investment growth, projected at 4.9% in 2000, seen at 1.8%
in 2001. Notable that 2000 projection is itself the slowest increase
since 1991. Meanwhile, non-manufacturing investment seen up 6.0% in
2000, but up just 1.5% in 2001. (MC)



10:39 (Dow Jones) Wall Street has gotten used to big tech names
preannouncing weak numbers in recent weeks. Well, Tuesday's session,
while still containing some bleak views, has provided some better news
from a diverse group of huge names: Procter & Gamble (PG), Merck (MRK),
and General Electic (GE) all have backed numbers in some form. P&G and
Merck are helping the DJIA outperform Nasdaq, but GE is the blue-chip
barometer's second-worst-performing name, down 5%. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwcc04log
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Prudential Trims Views On Nordstrom 

1,055 words
12 December 2000
18:04
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



1:05 (Dow Jones) Prudential reiterates hold on Nordstrom (JWN), citing
lack of earnings visibility. Company lowered comp-store sales views in
meeting with analysts recently, and Prudential trimmed 4Q view to 42c
from 44c a share, 2000 estimate to $1.25 from $1.27, and 2001 view to
$1.40 from $1.43. (TG)



12:35 (Dow Jones) Tyson (TSN) pitches its surprise cash tender for IBP
(IBP), saying it "starts the clock" on regulatory concerns. "We have a
high degree of confidence regarding issues that might be raised," its
CFO says. The poultry giant wants "the Procter and Gamble effect of
managing the whole (protein) category." (RLG)



12:23 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps are quietly weaker in mild volume, floor
traders say, still awaiting news from the Supreme Court. Rolling of
positions is the main feature, they add. "About half the volume has been
in the roll," one floor trader says. March Nasdaq under slightly more
pressure due to profit taking, he adds. (DMC)



12:20 (Dow Jones) Just like rival Intel (INTC), news of Advanced Micro
Devices (AMD) 4Q warning didn't wreck havoc on the stock. In fact, the
stock is actually up 1.4%, even though AMD said after the close of
trading Monday that it expects to report sales that are unchanged or
only slightly higher than the $1.21 billion reported for the third
quarter. When Intel warned, its stock too reacted by climbing. Maybe
more tech companies, who need to boost their stocks, ought to
pre-announce. (DLF)



12:15 (Dow Jones) Analysts continue to weigh in on beleaguered Yahoo!
(YHOO). A day after a rating downgrade and cautious analyst comments
sent the shares lower, Prudential Securities' Mark Rowen says enough is
enough. Maintaining his strong buy rating, Rowen says expectations of
weak advertising revenue in Yahoo's 4Q are already priced into the
stock. Yahoo could squeak by 4Q estimates, but the company could lower
expectations for 2001. Still, Rowen says that when investors become more
optimistic, they will recognize Yahoo as a cheap stock. He has a $90
price target. (PDL)



12:11 (Dow Jones) Salomon says that while high-yield telecom market is
in state of turmoil, there is tremendous opportunity for above-average
returns in bonds of 'A' tier players. Its list of these names includes:
ABIZ, ALGX, FCOM, MCLD, TWTC, WCII, XOXO, FTHL, GX, LVLT, MFNX, and WCG.
(TG)



11:57 (Dow Jones) Chicago floor participants are a hearty stock, but
historical figures indicate just how dramatic the Windy City's snow
accumulation has been. According to the Chicago Sun-Times, Chicago
usually sees an average of 8.8 inches for the whole month of December.
Last night, the city received 12-14 inches of snow in one evening alone.
This all happened amid windchills upwards of 40-below. (CMN)



11:54 (Dow Jones) Scott & Stringfelllow's Dick Dickson isn't
concentrating on Nasdaq Composite's downside risk, which he now sees as
minimal. Instead, he's looking at upside potential, and says a close
above 3025 on heavy volume can bring index up to 3500-3800 level.
Expects market to work its way higher in next several weeks, led by
techs and finance. (TG)



11:39 (Dow Jones) Unofficial price talk for $2 billion WorldCom (WCOM)
issue sees yields about 190 bp over two-year Treasurys for a 10-year
tranche with a 2-year put/call and 215 bp over Treasurys for 5-year
tranche. (DA)



11:27 (Dow Jones) Five names favored by Prudential's chief technician,
Ralph Acampora: Qualcomm (QCOM), Unisys (UIS), Home Depot (HD), Wal-Mart
(WMT), and Dime Bancorp (DME). (TG)



11:11 (Dow Jones) Treasurys have shaved off some of their earlier
declines after Nasdaq began falling, but are still in negative
territory. Still, the Supreme Court vigil is keeping trade subdued.
(MSD)



10:59 (Dow Jones) The news coming out of General Motors (GM) is
knocking just a bit out of the stock. Some news already reported in
Journal, but the 4Q profit warning is a new revelation. Says 4Q net to
come in between $1.10 a share and $1.20 before items. Shares up 2.9%
after bigger gains earlier. (TG)



10:51 (Dow Jones) Improvement in Eastman Kodak (EK) shares Tuesday
being called "a marvel of short covering" by one well-connected trader.
Given the downbeat outlook for the 4Q - company guided to as low as 65
cents, from consensus $1.07 - and the full year, trader says there is no
fundamental rationale for getting into Kodak now. (ROB)



10:48 (Dow Jones) New open interest records were set for some CME
equity contracts. Nasdaq 100 set an open interest record of 58258,
surpassing the former record of 53656 set on Dec. 5. S&P 500 open
interest was 533476, breaking a record of 526315 made on Friday. S&P
Midcap also set an open interest record of 21138, vs. the former record
of 21024 set on Dec. 21, 1998. S&P Midcap also set a volume record of
7092, above the former record of 6593 made on Sept. 13, 1999. (DMC)



10:45 (Dow Jones) Philip Morris (MO) hires Salomon Smith Barney and
CSFB to lead IPO of Kraft, sources say. (ROB)



10:42 (Dow Jones) NAPM survey shows investment plans way down.
Manufacturing investment growth, projected at 4.9% in 2000, seen at 1.8%
in 2001. Notable that 2000 projection is itself the slowest increase
since 1991. Meanwhile, non-manufacturing investment seen up 6.0% in
2000, but up just 1.5% in 2001. (MC)



10:39 (Dow Jones) Wall Street has gotten used to big tech names
preannouncing weak numbers in recent weeks. Well, Tuesday's session,
while still containing some bleak views, has provided some better news
from a diverse group of huge names: Procter & Gamble (PG), Merck (MRK),
and General Electic (GE) all have backed numbers in some form. P&G and
Merck are helping the DJIA outperform Nasdaq, but GE is the blue-chip
barometer's second-worst-performing name, down 5%. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwcc04lnr
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Tyson Sees IBP Bid Acing Regulatory Test 

1,002 words
12 December 2000
17:35
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



12:35 (Dow Jones) Tyson (TSN) pitches its surprise cash tender for IBP
(IBP), saying it "starts the clock" on regulatory concerns. "We have a
high degree of confidence regarding issues that might be raised," its
CFO says. The poultry giant wants "the Procter and Gamble effect of
managing the whole (protein) category." (RLG)



12:23 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps are quietly weaker in mild volume, floor
traders say, still awaiting news from the Supreme Court. Rolling of
positions is the main feature, they add. "About half the volume has been
in the roll," one floor trader says. March Nasdaq under slightly more
pressure due to profit taking, he adds. (DMC)



12:20 (Dow Jones) Just like rival Intel (INTC), news of Advanced Micro
Devices (AMD) 4Q warning didn't wreck havoc on the stock. In fact, the
stock is actually up 1.4%, even though AMD said after the close of
trading Monday that it expects to report sales that are unchanged or
only slightly higher than the $1.21 billion reported for the third
quarter. When Intel warned, its stock too reacted by climbing. Maybe
more tech companies, who need to boost their stocks, ought to
pre-announce. (DLF)



12:15 (Dow Jones) Analysts continue to weigh in on beleaguered Yahoo!
(YHOO). A day after a rating downgrade and cautious analyst comments
sent the shares lower, Prudential Securities' Mark Rowen says enough is
enough. Maintaining his strong buy rating, Rowen says expectations of
weak advertising revenue in Yahoo's 4Q are already priced into the
stock. Yahoo could squeak by 4Q estimates, but the company could lower
expectations for 2001. Still, Rowen says that when investors become more
optimistic, they will recognize Yahoo as a cheap stock. He has a $90
price target. (PDL)



12:11 (Dow Jones) Salomon says that while high-yield telecom market is
in state of turmoil, there is tremendous opportunity for above-average
returns in bonds of 'A' tier players. Its list of these names includes:
ABIZ, ALGX, FCOM, MCLD, TWTC, WCII, XOXO, FTHL, GX, LVLT, MFNX, and WCG.
(TG)



11:57 (Dow Jones) Chicago floor participants are a hearty stock, but
historical figures indicate just how dramatic the Windy City's snow
accumulation has been. According to the Chicago Sun-Times, Chicago
usually sees an average of 8.8 inches for the whole month of December.
Last night, the city received 12-14 inches of snow in one evening alone.
This all happened amid windchills upwards of 40-below. (CMN)



11:54 (Dow Jones) Scott & Stringfelllow's Dick Dickson isn't
concentrating on Nasdaq Composite's downside risk, which he now sees as
minimal. Instead, he's looking at upside potential, and says a close
above 3025 on heavy volume can bring index up to 3500-3800 level.
Expects market to work its way higher in next several weeks, led by
techs and finance. (TG)



11:39 (Dow Jones) Unofficial price talk for $2 billion WorldCom (WCOM)
issue sees yields about 190 bp over two-year Treasurys for a 10-year
tranche with a 2-year put/call and 215 bp over Treasurys for 5-year
tranche. (DA)



11:27 (Dow Jones) Five names favored by Prudential's chief technician,
Ralph Acampora: Qualcomm (QCOM), Unisys (UIS), Home Depot (HD), Wal-Mart
(WMT), and Dime Bancorp (DME). (TG)



11:11 (Dow Jones) Treasurys have shaved off some of their earlier
declines after Nasdaq began falling, but are still in negative
territory. Still, the Supreme Court vigil is keeping trade subdued.
(MSD)



10:59 (Dow Jones) The news coming out of General Motors (GM) is
knocking just a bit out of the stock. Some news already reported in
Journal, but the 4Q profit warning is a new revelation. Says 4Q net to
come in between $1.10 a share and $1.20 before items. Shares up 2.9%
after bigger gains earlier. (TG)



10:51 (Dow Jones) Improvement in Eastman Kodak (EK) shares Tuesday
being called "a marvel of short covering" by one well-connected trader.
Given the downbeat outlook for the 4Q - company guided to as low as 65
cents, from consensus $1.07 - and the full year, trader says there is no
fundamental rationale for getting into Kodak now. (ROB)



10:48 (Dow Jones) New open interest records were set for some CME
equity contracts. Nasdaq 100 set an open interest record of 58258,
surpassing the former record of 53656 set on Dec. 5. S&P 500 open
interest was 533476, breaking a record of 526315 made on Friday. S&P
Midcap also set an open interest record of 21138, vs. the former record
of 21024 set on Dec. 21, 1998. S&P Midcap also set a volume record of
7092, above the former record of 6593 made on Sept. 13, 1999. (DMC)



10:45 (Dow Jones) Philip Morris (MO) hires Salomon Smith Barney and
CSFB to lead IPO of Kraft, sources say. (ROB)



10:42 (Dow Jones) NAPM survey shows investment plans way down.
Manufacturing investment growth, projected at 4.9% in 2000, seen at 1.8%
in 2001. Notable that 2000 projection is itself the slowest increase
since 1991. Meanwhile, non-manufacturing investment seen up 6.0% in
2000, but up just 1.5% in 2001. (MC)



10:39 (Dow Jones) Wall Street has gotten used to big tech names
preannouncing weak numbers in recent weeks. Well, Tuesday's session,
while still containing some bleak views, has provided some better news
from a diverse group of huge names: Procter & Gamble (PG), Merck (MRK),
and General Electic (GE) all have backed numbers in some form. P&G and
Merck are helping the DJIA outperform Nasdaq, but GE is the blue-chip
barometer's second-worst-performing name, down 5%. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwcc04lkr
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Earnings Aren't Driving These Stocks 

1,320 words
12 December 2000
17:18
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



12:20 (Dow Jones) Just like rival Intel (INTC), news of Advanced Micro
Devices (AMD) 4Q warning didn't wreck havoc on the stock. In fact, the
stock is actually up 1.4%, even though AMD said after the close of
trading Monday that it expects to report sales that are unchanged or
only slightly higher than the $1.21 billion reported for the third
quarter. When Intel warned, its stock too reacted by climbing. Maybe
more tech companies, who need to boost their stocks, ought to
pre-announce. (DLF)



12:15 (Dow Jones) Analysts continue to weigh in on beleaguered Yahoo!
(YHOO). A day after a rating downgrade and cautious analyst comments
sent the shares lower, Prudential Securities' Mark Rowen says enough is
enough. Maintaining his strong buy rating, Rowen says expectations of
weak advertising revenue in Yahoo's 4Q are already priced into the
stock. Yahoo could squeak by 4Q estimates, but the company could lower
expectations for 2001. Still, Rowen says that when investors become more
optimistic, they will recognize Yahoo as a cheap stock. He has a $90
price target. (PDL)



12:11 (Dow Jones) Salomon says that while high-yield telecom market is
in state of turmoil, there is tremendous opportunity for above-average
returns in bonds of 'A' tier players. Its list of these names includes:
ABIZ, ALGX, FCOM, MCLD, TWTC, WCII, XOXO, FTHL, GX, LVLT, MFNX, and WCG.
(TG)



11:57 (Dow Jones) Chicago floor participants are a hearty stock, but
historical figures indicate just how dramatic the Windy City's snow
accumulation has been. According to the Chicago Sun-Times, Chicago
usually sees an average of 8.8 inches for the whole month of December.
Last night, the city received 12-14 inches of snow in one evening alone.
This all happened amid windchills upwards of 40-below. (CMN)



11:54 (Dow Jones) Scott & Stringfelllow's Dick Dickson isn't
concentrating on Nasdaq Composite's downside risk, which he now sees as
minimal. Instead, he's looking at upside potential, and says a close
above 3025 on heavy volume can bring index up to 3500-3800 level.
Expects market to work its way higher in next several weeks, led by
techs and finance. (TG)



11:39 (Dow Jones) Unofficial price talk for $2 billion WorldCom (WCOM)
issue sees yields about 190 bp over two-year Treasurys for a 10-year
tranche with a 2-year put/call and 215 bp over Treasurys for 5-year
tranche. (DA)



11:27 (Dow Jones) Five names favored by Prudential's chief technician,
Ralph Acampora: Qualcomm (QCOM), Unisys (UIS), Home Depot (HD), Wal-Mart
(WMT), and Dime Bancorp (DME). (TG)



11:11 (Dow Jones) Treasurys have shaved off some of their earlier
declines after Nasdaq began falling, but are still in negative
territory. Still, the Supreme Court vigil is keeping trade subdued.
(MSD)



10:59 (Dow Jones) The news coming out of General Motors (GM) is
knocking just a bit out of the stock. Some news already reported in
Journal, but the 4Q profit warning is a new revelation. Says 4Q net to
come in between $1.10 a share and $1.20 before items. Shares up 2.9%
after bigger gains earlier. (TG)



10:51 (Dow Jones) Improvement in Eastman Kodak (EK) shares Tuesday
being called "a marvel of short covering" by one well-connected trader.
Given the downbeat outlook for the 4Q - company guided to as low as 65
cents, from consensus $1.07 - and the full year, trader says there is no
fundamental rationale for getting into Kodak now. (ROB)



10:48 (Dow Jones) New open interest records were set for some CME
equity contracts. Nasdaq 100 set an open interest record of 58258,
surpassing the former record of 53656 set on Dec. 5. S&P 500 open
interest was 533476, breaking a record of 526315 made on Friday. S&P
Midcap also set an open interest record of 21138, vs. the former record
of 21024 set on Dec. 21, 1998. S&P Midcap also set a volume record of
7092, above the former record of 6593 made on Sept. 13, 1999. (DMC)



10:45 (Dow Jones) Philip Morris (MO) hires Salomon Smith Barney and
CSFB to lead IPO of Kraft, sources say. (ROB)



10:42 (Dow Jones) NAPM survey shows investment plans way down.
Manufacturing investment growth, projected at 4.9% in 2000, seen at 1.8%
in 2001. Notable that 2000 projection is itself the slowest increase
since 1991. Meanwhile, non-manufacturing investment seen up 6.0% in
2000, but up just 1.5% in 2001. (MC)



10:39 (Dow Jones) Wall Street has gotten used to big tech names
preannouncing weak numbers in recent weeks. Well, Tuesday's session,
while still containing some bleak views, has provided some better news
from a diverse group of huge names: Procter & Gamble (PG), Merck (MRK),
and General Electic (GE) all have backed numbers in some form. P&G and
Merck are helping the DJIA outperform Nasdaq, but GE is the blue-chip
barometer's second-worst-performing name, down 5%. (TG)



10:30 (Dow Jones) Still no pricing power for companies. NAPM's
semi-annual survey reports 86% of firms citing no or only minimal
ability to pass on cost increases to their customers. (MC)



10:28 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps await news from the Supreme Court, floor
traders say. "That's the only thing that's going to get this market to
start really trading," one floor trader says. March Nasdaq is also off
of its lows as the contract was pulled back by March S&Ps. "The Nasdaq
break was cash led and when we (S&Ps) didn't break, Nasdaq came back,"
he says. (DMC)



10:20 (Dow Jones) With the exception of its announced $645 million buy
of Giganet Inc. (using 4 million of its shares), how much has changed at
Emulex (EMLX) in the past eight trading sessions? Well, the shares have
edged up about $70 in that span. Maybe the momentum players are back.
Stock up 8 at 177. (TG)



10:07 (Dow Jones) The euro continues to increase its following among
fund managers, with 75% choosing the single currency as their main
preference in the latest Merrill Lynch Dec. global fund manager survey,
up from 72% in Nov, and 68% in Oct. (GS)



10:03 (Dow Jones) DoubleClick's (DCLK) 4Q warning late Monday prompted
at least one analyst -- SG Cowen's Scott Reamer -- to downgrade the
online advertising company's stock. But the news lifted the company's
stock about 13% early Tuesday. Analysts said the positive response was
likely due to the perception that the bulk of bad news is now behind
DoubleClick. Some short-covering may have been at work as well, one
analyst said. Like other online ad companies and portals, DoubleClick
has been hit by a slowdown in ad spending as a result of the dot-com
shakeout. (RS)



9:57 (Dow Jones) Lehman says Ariba's (ARBA) $25 billion diluted market
cap overstates company's realistic growth prospects. Stock trades at 34
times 2001 revenue and 457 times 2001 cash earnings. Even with generous
assumptions, Lehman's 5-year rate of return model yields just 2.1%
annual return. Catalysts to upgrade of stock, currently rated neutral,
include acquisition of collaborative applications or significant
acceleration of network revenue. (TG)



9:46 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps are holding above the overnight low
support of 1394.60 as it trades weaker. Further support seen at 1394.10,
with better support at 1381.50. Resistance seen at 1408 and 1414.20,
according to off-floor trader. (DMC)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwcc04lj3
?
 

 UPDATE 1-Bank of America forms debt business, Bunn to leave. 

 By Jonathan Stempel 
596 words
11 December 2000
20:20
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 11 (Reuters) - Bank of America Corp., which warned last week it may face up to $1.2 billion in fourth-quarter loan losses, said on Monday it is creating a new business focusing on debt and its head of leveraged finance is leaving. 

 The parent of the No. 1 U.S. bank said in a statement that the debt business will combine the activities of its corporate and investment banking divisions. 

 Bank of America also said Thomas Bunn, who runs its leveraged finance division, will leave the Charlotte, N.C., company. It did not specify the reason for or timing of his departure. 

 "I don't view this as a laying of blame," said Blaine Frantz, fixed-income analyst in U.S. investment-grade research for Barclays Capital. 

 Instead, he said, the bank "needs to do something to improve its image in the marketplace. The syndicated lending business will be much tougher next year, and Bank of America seems to be signaling it will be much more focused." 

 Bank of America's shares traded Monday afternoon on the New York Stock Exchange at $43-3/16, up $2-5/16. The stock has a 52-week low of $36-3/8 and a year high of $60-7/8. 

 LEADER IN LOANS 

 So far this year, Bank of America has arranged $245.3 billion of syndicated loans, commanding 22.6 percent of a $1.09 trillion market, according to Thomson Financial Securities Data of Newark, N.J. 

 Only Chase Manhattan Corp., which has arranged $342.8 billion of the loans, is bigger, Thomson said. 

 Bank of America announced its restructuring five days after it said it had already suffered $1 billion of loan losses in the fourth quarter and is budgeting for significantly higher loan losses in 2001. 

 Analysts said nearly half of the loan losses probably came from a loan to troubled consumer products maker Sunbeam Corp. 

 "This is a reflection of the turn in the credit cycle," Frantz said. "B of A is so large that it will be involved in many of the headline-type credits. But it has an extremely strong franchise, and there is no solvency problem." 

 Since the 1998 Russian debt default, banks have become increasingly more cautious in extending credit. U.S. corporate credit quality, especially this year, is in a decline. 

 NEW POSITIONS 

 Under the restructuring, Bill Hodges will take over as head of debt capital markets, which focuses on debt origination and other activities. 

 Duncan Goldie-Morrison will take over as head of global markets, which will focus on debt issuer sales, trading, research, foreign exchange and emerging markets, and other activities. 

 Both will report to Ed Brown, head of global corporate and investment banking. 

 Also as part of the restructuring, Carter McClelland, the head of banking and and equities, will take on emerging markets investment banking, Europe, Middle East and Asia. 

 Ed Carter will assume a new role as head of corporate and investment banking, and will report to McClelland. 

 Bank of America spokeswoman Mary Bradley Thigpen said the restructuring is "in line with the company's efforts to focus its business," and "there was not an appropriate role" for Bunn in the new structure. 

 Bank of America's 7.8 percent subordinated notes maturing in February 2010 were recently bid to yield 2.17 percentage point more than 10-year Treasuries, down from 2.25 shortly after the profit warning but up from 2.13 shortly before it. 

Document lba0000020010823dwcb00tyx
?
 

 UPDATE 2-Autoliv warns on profits, shares tumble. 

 By Will Hardie 
640 words
11 December 2000
16:59
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 STOCKHOLM, Dec 11 (Reuters) - Swedish car safety equipment maker Autoliv said on Monday its earnings per share (EPS) would fall short of market forecasts in 2000 and 2001 due to slowing car production and high foreign exchange and materials costs. 

 Autoliv, the world's biggest seat belt and airbag maker, said in a statement it expected full-year 2000 EPS to total between $1.65 and $1.75 compared with $1.95 in 1999 and market forecasts of $1.95 this year and $2.15 for 2001. 

 Its share plunged as much as 19.5 percent to a record low of 166.5 Swedish crowns on the news. The share has underperformed the Dow Jones Stoxx Tech index by more than 75 percent since hitting record highs above 340 Swedish crowns in April 1999, and by 31 percent since the start of 2000. 

 Analysts and fund managers said the share dived because the warning was worse than expected but predicted a rebound in the short or medium term because the selling was overdone, the company sound and the problems external. 

 "The profit warning was expected but that it would be this strong took the market by surprise. It is especially the negative prospects for 2001 that the market is reacting to," Handelsbanken analyst Oscar Stjerngren told Reuters. 

 "The currency effect is not an issue. The other (problems) are related to the markets. They have a good pipeline of good products coming on stream," said a portfolio manager at a Stockholm brokerage. 

 "At these levels it is an attractive valuation. It was an attractive valuation before the fall," he added, suggesting a fair price between 220 and 280 crowns. 

 One fund manager said some funds had introduced a policy of automatically cutting their stakes in companies that warned on profits by 50 percent, exacerbating the selling. Others took an excuse to exclude a sluggish performer from their portfolios before closing their books at the end of the year. 

 MARGIN PRESSURE 

 Autoliv said margins would remain under similar pressure in 2001 as this year but with higher pressure early in that year. 

 "Despite this, Autoliv expects net income to grow during the second half, resulting in an earnings per share for the full year at the same level as is expected for this year," it said. 

 Production of light vehicles had declined at a faster rate than originally estimated, especially in North America, a trend that has been aggravated by Autoliv's product mix. 

 "This trend will probably continue into the next year," the company said, noting that the estimated shortfall in its North American sales alone would dent fourth-quarter 2000 EPS by about 12 cents compared with its forecast at the beginning of the quarter. 

 In addition to that, 16 cents of the full-year reduction was due to exchange rate effects and 12 cents to higher-than-expected materials costs. Light vehicle sales were expected to decline at least in the first half of 2001. 

 "Autoliv's sales are therefore expected to show only a modest growth, in dollars, despite an increase in shipments and market share gains," the company said. 

 "In addition, higher raw material prices have broken the favourable trend of lower component purchase costs that Autoliv achieved during the year's first six months," it said. 

 Autoliv also said it had signed a new contract for its occupant sensing system for advanced airbags from a leading U.S. car manufacturer. Production would start in autumn 2003 and the contract covers five car lines and nearly one million vebicles annually. 

 The technology enables a car to sense whether there is a small child or an adult in the front passenger seat and stops the airbag deploying if necessary. 

 Autoliv reports fourth-quarter results on January 25. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcb0afzi
?
 

 Adtran falls after  profit warning , downgrade. 

396 words
11 December 2000
16:28
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 11 (Reuters) - Shares of Adtran Inc. fell 10 percent on Monday after the telecommunications equipment maker warned Friday that fourth-quarter sales, profits, and gross margins would fall below Wall Street expectations due to lower sales. 

 Shares of Huntsville, Ala.-based Adtran hit an intraday low of $18-3/16, a price unseen since May 1999. The stock recovered somewhat to $25-1/4, down $2-53/64, or 10 percent, in late-morning trading on the Nasdaq market. 

 Adtran makes high-speed transmission products used by telephone companies and large corporations to provide advanced data services over existing telephone networks. 

 Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown cut its investment rating on Adtran to "market perform" from "buy" and lowered its earnings forecasts for 2000 and 2001. 

 "While management is a bit hazy on the various root causes of the top-line miss, our general impression is that the factors contributing to the shortfall are temporary in nature," DB Alex. Brown said in a research report. 

 Reduced gross margins were driven by a faster-than-expected transition to a new generation of products, called HDSL2, which have lower margins, DB Alex Brown said. 

 Adtran may have priced its new HDSL2 products aggressively in order to win and maintain customer accounts. Efforts to cut the cost of producing these new products also may be behind schedule, analysts said. 

 Adtran also may have been hurt by a slowdown in purchases by corporations, "which may be reacting negatively to prospects for a slower economy," DB Alex. Brown said. 

 Its service provider sector may have been hurt by a slowdown in sales to the dominant local telephone companies, which may be delaying purchases until the new year, other analysts said. 

 Smaller companies known as competitive local exchange carriers (CLECs) also may have cut back on orders, analysts said. Many companies throughout the CLEC sector have cut back in spending as their cash holdings dwindled and new capital became hard to tap in a tight credit market. 

 The "underlying demand for bandwidth appears to be very strong in the telecommunications market (and) Adtran is maintaining or taking market share in each of its product areas. Nonetheless, the shortfall raises concerns about Adtran's execution on its new HDSL2 cost reduction and potential concerns about the ongoing health of the marketplace," DB Alex. Brown said. 

Document lba0000020010821dwcb0afvv
?
 

European Market Outlook
 Slowdown in Tech Spending Could Limit Sector's Rebound 

 By Vanessa Fuhrmans 
Staff Reporter
653 words
11 December 2000
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
11
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 It looks like Christmas has come early for Europe's technology stocks, but don't count on that as a sign of a Happy New Year for the sector. 

 Last week there was plenty of reason to celebrate: Rosy forecasts from Nokia and an Alan Greenspan speech suggesting a possible interest-rate cut early next year got the preholiday rally going. Even profit warnings from Motorola and Intel didn't faze investors. Suddenly this year's out-of-favor industry is the best-performing; the DJ Stoxx Index of European tech stocks is up 17% since Nov. 30, more than any other sector. 

 But the tidings aren't all good. Around the corner, a growing number of analysts see a slowdown in technology spending by U.S. companies, which is likely to crimp tech industry earnings on both sides of the Atlantic next year. And despite the deep discounts in stocks across the sector, investors say many share prices don't reflect the probable shortfall in profits next year, particularly in the wildly cyclical semiconductor industry. 

 "Clearly there has been a lot of pain," says Alan Torry, who manages the Societe Generale Technology fund. "But I'm a bit reluctant to say the pain is all over yet." 

 It's not all bad news for tech stocks. Market watchers say the sector should continue to get a boost from traders and hedge fund managers, who having borrowed more and more tech shares for short-selling in the past months, are buying them back at cheaper prices to close out positions. That kind of technical horse-trading is likely to squeeze up the market even more in the next few weeks as trading volumes thin, says Rolf Elgeti, European strategist at Commerzbank. "The market wants to go up because there are suddenly some forced buyers out there," he says. 

 And the market has become less vulnerable to massive sell-offs at the first sign of negative news. Analysts warned that Intel's profitwarning, issued after the close of trading Thursday, would send European stocks in a tailspin. Instead, the sector climbed 1.7%. "As valuations come closer to fair value, profit warnings will have less of an impact," says Ben Funnell, European equity strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, who says the bubble in technology, media and telecommunications stocks has deflated some 80% since earlier this year. 

 The trouble is, although valuations are less of a concern, tech spending by companies is becoming more worrisome, Mr. Funnell says. U.S. company spending in technology grew 30% in each of the past four quarters, the fastest rate since 1980, according to Morgan Stanley. It's also a rate that's nearly impossible to maintain, especially as the economy slows. Though Mr. Funnell says he doesn't expect the rate of spending to flatten to zero, as it did in the last recession, it could slow to 10%. "And that's not in fully in the earnings estimates," he says. 

 Though some analysts maintain Europe's tech sector, heavy on telecom equipment makers and mobile-phone technology suppliers, is different from the more personal computer-dominated industry in the U.S., Europe still rides the ups and downs of U.S. tech stocks. And on the average, European tech companies rely on the U.S. for 35% of their earnings, Mr. Funnell says. 

 That said, both strategists and investors recommend buying into companies that focus on providing technology infrastructure, rather than services. Mr. Torry, the Societe Generale fund manager, says he likes software companies providing supply-chain management solutions and enterprise applications that integrate companies' many software models. But, he adds, U.S. companies such as i2 Technologies Inc. and Sycamore Networks are still a better value than their European counterparts. "Europe is still slightly overpriced," he says. 

Document wsje000020010814dwcb00iwj
?
 

 BRIDGE UPDATE-MAJOR MARKETS - US stocks off session highs. 

643 words
11 December 2000
19:35
FWN Select
FWS
English
(c) 2000

 Dec 11, 2000 (FWN Select via COMTEX) - TOP STORIES: 

 US stocks off session highs 

 New York-Dec. 11-U.S. stocks moved off their best levels for the day. Retailers were among the biggest losers in the market after Lowe's (LOW) issued a profit warning and CS First Boston cut ratings on five specialty retail stocks. Semiconductor stocks remained strong even though Lehman Brothers said the outlook for the first half of 2001 will be weak for chip equipment makers. The Dow was last up 26 at 10,739 and the Nasdaq was up 63, or 2.19% at 2981. ( Story .1300 ) 

 US bonds decline as stocks gain on perceived Bush win 

 New York-Dec. 11-Treasuries opened sharply lower and remained under pressure ohroughout morning trading as equities gained steadily on the market assumption that the presidential election will soon be over and that Texas Governor George W. Bush will emerge the winner. 30-year bonds were down 24/32 at a bid of 109 30/32 and yielding 5.548%, while 10-year notes were down 17/32 at a bid of 102 24/32 and yielding 5.364%. Five-year notes declined 10/32 at a bid of 101 24/32, yielding 5.326%, while two-year notes were down 4/32 at a bid of 100 6/32 and yielding 5.5025%. ( Story .312 ) 

 Euro at five-day low versus dollar 

 London-Dec. 11-Sterling stood out as a highlight in a generally dull European session, pushing sharply higher amid speculation of heavy buying related to the purchase of the United Kingdom's Technicolor by Thomson Multimedia of France. The Japanese yen started European trading on a firm footing following a strong rise in the Nikkei in Asian trading, though was unable to hold onto its gains, except against a weakening euro. A combination of the heavy selling of the euro/sterling cross plus the strengthening U.S. dollar sent the euro/dollar pair to a five-day low of 0.8773. ( Story .800 ) 

 European stocks rise on technology, telecoms gains 

 London-Dec. 11-Technology and telecommunication stocks boosted European markets during morning trade, adding to a solid finish last week. Traders said stocks appeared to have bottomed and investors returned to the markets seeking bargains and anticipating a year-end rally. The FTSE Eurotop 100 index was up 44 points, or 1.2%, at 3695. ( Story .1165 ) 

 Bunds drop as equities rally 

 London-Dec. 11-German government bond3, or Bunds, are trading down 0.16 to 107.47 after a weak open. Investors blamed the morning rally in stock markets for the fall in bond prices. U.K. government bonds, or Gilts, slipped back 0.3 to 115.08, despite weaker-than-expected U.K. producer prices data. ( Story .337 ) 

 OF INTEREST: 

 Nikkei up 2.2% on strong Nasdaq 

 Tokyo-Dec. 11-The Nikkei closed above the 15,000 mark for the first time since Nov. 9 following a broad-based rally fueled by a strong gain Friday in the Nasdaq composite index. The overall stock market showed little reaction to the move by Morgan Stanley Capital International to introduce a free-float method for its equity indices. The benchmark soared 319.19 points, or 2.2%, to 15,015.70. ( Story .1107 ) 

 Japan bonds fall on firm stocks 

 Tokyo-Dec. 11-Japanese 10-year yen bond futures traded lower in a tight range with market participants adopting a wait-and-see approach ahead of the Bank of Japan's "tankan" survey due out Wednesday. Amid a lack of fresh leads, the firm performance in the Nikkei stock index and the weakness in medium-term cash bonds, due to the significant rise in short-term rates, weighed on March futures, traders said. ( Story .100 ) 

 (C) Copyright 2000 FWN 

 . 

Document fws0000020010808dwcb004b8
?
 

 Horror Story: Are the serial earnings slashings almost over on Wall Street? 

 By Jonathan R. Laing 
1,313 words
11 December 2000
Barron's
B
26
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Last week was fairly typical on the earnings front in recent months. Household-name companies Apple, Motorola, Circuit City, Bank of America, toymaker Hasbro and Intel all "pre-announced" downward revisions of their prospective financial results. The week before, computer maker Gateway stunned the stock market with news that, because of dismal PC sales over the Thanksgiving weekend, its fourth-quarter earnings would be some 40% off forecast. 

 In the cases of Apple, Motorola and Intel, last week wasn't their first trip to the forecasting woodshed in recent months. Motorola has been forced to make three different cuts in its financial forecasts since fall. And the others joined a host of serial offenders on that score. 

 The avalanche of earnings downgrades since the beginning of October has weighed heavily on the stock market, sending all the major averages careening lower both in early October and mid-November. The Nasdaq was down some 23% during November, its second-worst month in history, and it's still down some 30% for the year, despite last week's spirited rally. And earnings remain the most troublesome "e" of the four factors bedeviling stock prices -- the economy, euro, energy and earnings. For earnings shifts tend to spawn greater uncertainty and lag changes in the other three factors. 

 To Chuck Hill, research director for First Call/Thomson Financial, the recent surge in profit downgrades by companies and the analysts who track them has been extraordinary in its suddenness and severity. First Call, which picks up the earnings estimates of virtually all published Wall Street securities analysts, has seen its estimates of fourth-quarter earnings growth for the S&P 500 halve from 16.8% on July 1 to 8.4% on December 8. That falloff is all the more dramatic when compared to actual quarterly earnings growth of 23.6%, 21.6% and 18.6% for the first, second and third quarters of 2000, respectively. 

 Moreover, analysts are putting the meat cleaver to 2001 earnings growth estimates for the S&P 500. Since July, the growth forecast has contracted from 15.5% to 10.7%. 

 Expect more bad news. Analysts tend to extrapolate earnings problems out only a quarter or two and leave alone estimates for periods in the more distant future. First Call earnings-growth estimates for the first and second quarters are currently below the 2001 number, at 9.5% and 8.6% respectively. Hill thinks these two quarterly growth numbers could be revised downward to the "mid- to low single digits." 

 The earnings revisions began in earnest in October, according to Hill. "It was then that the earnings cuts seemed to fan out far beyond consumer cyclical industries like autos and the raw material sector to technology and other areas thought to be largely immune from any Fed-induced economic slowdown," Hill opines. "For a time we thought the earnings cuts were episodic, short-term problems, specific to individual companies. But the problems kept fanning out to a wider array of companies. It has become a virtual free fall in earnings expectations." 

 To Hill, a former technology analyst before coming to First Call 10 years ago, the defining event occurred in early November when leading electronic-components distributor Avnet issued a profit warning. "Avnet is the proverbial canary in the coal mine, because distributors are typically the first to feel a cyclical slowdown as opposed to a mere inventory adjustment," Hill avers. 

 Only adding to the depressing backdrop in technology has been the sharp decline in fourth-quarter tech earnings growth numbers, from 29% on October 1 to 11% on December 8. What makes this drop particularly ominous to Hill is the fact that the decline in tech earnings expectations has been so sudden and dramatic. Technology sector earnings for the S&P were up 42% in the third quarter. And year-over-year fourth-quarter technology earnings growth should have been artificially boosted by the sharp fall in tech spending in last year's fourth quarter. Many computer and software companies saw their results soften dramatically in last year's final period as customers completed Y2K purchases and were reluctant to order additional product until the looming crisis had past. 

 The decline in fourth-quarter earnings estimates since October 1 has been startling in other sectors as well. Transportation (planes, trains and trucking) has seen growth estimates plummet from 30% to 12%. Profit problems in the auto industry have helped drive consumer cyclicals from projected fourth-quarter growth of 10% to a predicted decline of 3%. Communication services have been ravaged going from an estimated earnings decline of 7% to some 25% in the red. Basic materials (paper, chemicals and metals) have likewise sunk into the abyss. A 7% growth assumption has given way to a projected loss of 11%. 

 Defensive areas, like consumer staples and utilities, have held up better, while strong crude-oil and natural-gas prices have given a nice upward thrust to fourthquarter earnings estimates. 

 It remains to be seen whether current stock prices not only fully reflect the earnings declines already predicted but also any further earnings cuts yet to come. Hill, for one, isn't sure. But at least he sees some near-term relief during the month of December to the relentless pounding that has been visited on stocks of late. For one thing, he expects fewer earnings pre-announcements, negative or positive, as the holidays approach. Company officials tend to honor the holiday spirit and refrain from putting lumps of coal in shareholder stockings. 

 This year's fourth quarter has seen a 58% jump over last year in such pre-announcements. Hill ascribes this jump to a combination of factors, including the deteriorating earnings environment and the SEC's newly implemented Fair Disclosure Regulation. Companies with market-moving earnings news seem far quicker to disclose it than in the past. 

 Nevertheless he expects the surge in earnings revisions to resume in the first several weeks of January, just after the fourth-quarter reporting period ends for most companies. "I'd advise people to buckle their seat belts when they return from the holidays, because they could be in for a wild time," he says. 

 Based on current First Call analyst estimates, earnings growth should bottom in the second quarter at around 8.6% before beginning a slow rise. That pattern would be reminiscent of the slowdown in economic growth the U.S. experienced in 1997 during the early stages of the Asian economic crisis. If the slowdown in earnings proves more long-lived, however, and the recovery recedes further from view, then stock investors may be in for more tough sledding. "Markets always turn up well before the bottom in earnings is reached. But investors will have to have some visibility as to when and how deep the bottom will be," Hill explains. 

 The market action last Friday was encouraging on that score. Intel led the stock market strongly higher despite disclosing late Thursday that weak demand from PC makers would result in one of its weakest quarters in terms of sales growth in many years. The news was obviously already discounted in the price of the stock, and Intel moved sharply higher. 

 In fact, market strategists such as Morgan Stanley Dean Witter's Peter Canelo suspect that the stock market may have already discounted the apocalypse in terms of technology stocks. How else can one explain the fact that the price/earnings to earnings-growth ratio, or so-called PEG ratio, for the S&P technology sector has fallen some 40% to 1.5 from 2.5 in March and now trades in line with the slower-growth S&P 500 Index. 

 Just maybe, the worst is over on the earnings revision front. 

Document b000000020010803dwcb000fi
?
 

 Mutual Funds 
 Patience Pays: Why Smith Barney's European fund has kept its faith in Finland's Nokia 

 By Allison Bisbey-colter 
1,156 words
11 December 2000
Barron's
B
F6
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Sometimes, good things really do come to those who wait, and right now Rein W. van der Does is reaping his reward for standing patiently by Nokia. 

 On Tuesday, the Finnish mobilephone maker said it expects continued strong growth of handset sales through 2003. The statement boosted its own shares and others throughout the telecommunications sector. That was money forgone for the legions of fund managers who had sold Nokia on the back of a negative profit warning in July. But van der Does, manager of the Smith Barney European fund, was sitting pretty last week: Nokia is his biggest holding, representing 7.52% of the $85 million portfolio, as of November 30. 

 The fund chief, a native of the Netherlands who's lived in the U.S. for 30 years, never wavered in his high regard for the Finnish cell-phone maker. He remains enamored of its growing market share and its lead in developing a third generation of mobile handsets that will act as gateways to the Internet. 

 He also likes Nokia's growing role in the telecom-equipment business. He expects the company to benefit from ample orders as American wireless operators upgrade their networks to the global system for mobile communications, or the GSM standard. 

 "In the U.S., we are very behind Europe in the cellular business," van der Does observes. 

 He realized just how far behind while skiing in Switzerland. "My friend made a call from the mountains to his son, who was on the beach in South Africa," van der Does said. "There's no way you can do that here. I have trouble reaching my wife in New Jersey when I'm in New York." 

 While he gained some additional insight about Nokia on the alpine slopes, van der Does thinks it's just as easy to manage a European fund from New York as it is from London or Frankfurt. It's simple to track local developments over the Internet -- he reads the Dutch newspapers online -- and European companies of all stripes, not just industry giants like Nokia, make regular visits to investors in the U.S. 

 But van der Does feels his Dutch background has its benefits, at least in terms of cachet. He likes to joke that he attends Berlitz classes in order to maintain his accent. "My wife doesn't have one anymore," and his kids grew up here, he says. 

 Van der Does got his start on Wall Street by covering the U.S. auto industry at the old Drexel Burnham Lambert. He's perhaps the only alumnus of the pressure pot that was Drexel in the 1980s who calls part of his stint there "extremely boring." His boredom resulted from following very few companies. Later, he switched to international research, eventually becoming head of the group responsible for that at Drexel. His team hopped over to Smith Barney in 1990. 

 There are plenty of good reasons to invest in Europe, he maintains: Deregulation and privatization have accelerated under the two-year-old European Monetary Union, while a new generation of European investors, whose members must plan for their own retirement, is developing an appetite for stocks. 

 But the weakness of the new single currency has made European stock funds a hard sell in the U.S., as the performance of euro-denominated shares looks less impressive when returns are translated back into dollars. Through November 30, the Smith Barney European fund was down 13.21% this year, compared with a loss of 12.50% for its typical peer. Its three-year annualized return through November 30 was 11.69%, versus 10.52% for all European funds. 

 On the currency front, van der Does expects some relief for dollar-based investors in Europe. He figures the euro could return to parity with the dollar in the next six months, from below 90 cents right now. And he believes the region offers additional value because it's experiencing a gentler economic slowdown. 

 "In the U.S., maybe 40% of opinion is calling for a hard, as opposed to 60% for a soft, landing," he says. "In Europe, there's been a slowdown, but it's not as serious." 

 The relatively favorable economic environment, combined with widespread corporate restructuring, could result in healthy corporate profits over the next 18 months. 

 Van der Does cites a Smith Barney estimate that earnings of the companies in the S&P 500 will rise 8% in 2001, while the consensus forecast for corporate profits among the countries in the European Monetary Union will jump 13%. 

 And while multinational giants such as Nokia are increasingly trading in line with global sectors, rather than their home markets, van der Does still thinks European stocks provide some diversification. "The U.S. represents just 50% of the market cap of world equities," he says. "Would you step into a boxing ring with one hand tied behind your back?" 

 With all of Europe at his disposal, van der Does uses a bottom-up approach, choosing companies based on their own fundamental merits, as opposed to the outlook for the sector or country in which they operate. The only exception to this approach is his decision to underweight the U.K., relative to its position in the fund's benchmark, the MSCI Europe index. 

 That's because the strength of the British pound makes British goods and services relatively expensive in Continental Europe, the primary market for U.K. exporters. The U.K. is also further along in the economic cycle than continental Europe and it's later in the game for capital-markets restructuring there, says van der Does. U.K. firms represent 16.88% of Smith Barney European, compared with 31.07% of the MSCI Europe Index. 

 The portfolio manager is slightly underweight in Germany, but not because he's downbeat on the Continent's largest national economy. He's enthusiastic about tax reforms approved in August, but comments: "It's difficult to find interesting names; they're all big cyclical companies, and the Neuer Markt [Germany's equivalent of Nasdaq] is too speculative." 

 One of his favorite current picks is Tomra Systems, a Norwegian company that makes machines used to collect recyclable bottles and cans and refund deposits. Until now, it has sold most of the machines in its home market, but the manufacturer's stock surged in October when Germany said it would expand recycling of beverage canisters. 

 Van der Does cut the Smith Barney European Fund's stake in Tomra by 25% following the rally, largely because it had come to represent too large a position in the portfolio. But it's still the fund's second-largest holding at 5.92%. Obviously, he sees more upside. 

 --- 

 ALLISON BISBEY-COLTER is a reporter with Dow Jones Newswires. 

Document b000000020010803dwcb000fg
?
 

Lunch Money
 Financial Post Investing: Money 
 Dining 'al desko' in Don Mills: It's just me, myself and Alan Grinchspan 

 William Hanley 
Financial Post
928 words
9 December 2000
National Post
FINP
National
C01 / Front
English
 (c) National Post 2000. All Rights Reserved. 

 Since Lunch Money was launched amid muted fanfare in September, we have variously lunched in downtown Toronto, New York and Vancouver. This week, our luncheon companion having begged off at the last minute, it's back to the usual in deepest, darkest Don Mills, to the vagaries of the National Post cafeteria, to the sandwich at the desk accompanied by a large side order of markets and a melange of reflection. 

 The cafeteria does offer different fare, including entrees and a salad bar at a reasonable price. But dining "al desko" for Lunch Money most often involves grabbing a freshly made sandwich and some carrot and celery sticks for less than $4. (Yes, that's how we got rich.) 

 On this Wednesday, lunch turns out to be a variation on turf and surf -- a roast beef sandwich and a swing through our favourite Web site, www.100hot.com/ directory/business/finance.html, which handily contains the top 100 financial sites and links to them. 

 We are still pondering the reaction to the public musings on Tuesday of Alan Grinchspan, who, having stolen Wall Streetville's Christmas gifts well in advance this year, seems to have returned them with a seasonal flourish. 

 Indeed, the irony of U.S. Federal Reserve chairman Grinchspan -- er, Greenspan -- triggering a bout of irrational exuberance four years to the day he coined that famous term is not lost on market watchers. 

 And it will not have been lost on the great man himself as he watched the Nasdaq composite index leap a record 10.4% on Tuesday as investors celebrated an end in sight to higher interest rates and to the presidential election impasse. 

 Greenspan didn't exactly come out and say the Fed would be cutting interest rates soon, but he would have surely known what impact his carefully crafted speech would have on an investing public desperate for glad tidings as an annus horribilus for the markets draws to a welcome end. 

 Though his speech was full of the usual oblique Fedspeak -- "the wealth effect that spurred consumer spending is being significantly attenuated," he said of the flagging bull market -- the message could not have been clearer: The Fed's rate rises have had the desired effect of slowing the U.S. economy and now it's time to be vigilant about avoiding the hard landing and a possible recession. 

 The Fed will not cut rates at its Dec. 19 policy-making committee meeting, choosing instead to signal further cuts ahead by turning its bias on monetary tightening to neutral or even negative from positive. The assumption -- and one already priced into bond markets -- is that rates will be cut on either Jan. 31 or March 20. 

 Having signalled that a move to a neutral bias is on the way, Greenspan and his colleagues had better deliver. If the Fed retains its bias 10 days from now, the chairman really will be the Grinchspan who stole Christmas. 

 Of course, it might be even worse if the Fed actually does cut rates on Dec. 19: Wall Street would take it as a signal that the economy is deteriorating so rapidly that desperate measures are needed to avoid the hard landing. Stock prices might recoil. 

 Indeed, as Lunch Money is biting into a crunchy Granny Smith apple after a spartan repast based on a dietary strategy of waist not, want not, Tuesday's rally is in danger of turning into Wednesday's rout. Bank of America Corp. has just warned the credit quality of some loans will cost it this quarter, so some edgy profit-taking triggered by Apple Computer Inc.'s profits warning after the market closed on Tuesday is further compounded by some hard selling across the board. 

 As we watch the various indexes come under increasing pressure, it's clear this market is destined to continue on its choppy way, Greenspan's encouraging words notwithstanding. And as if to drive home that point even as we're sipping on a nice, soothing cup of Lapsang souchong, prepared each afternoon by a tea-brewing colleague, CNBC-TV announces a minor court victory for the Al Gore camp showing he's not quite yet out for the count. 

 Investors still must wrestle with many issues -- an uncertain political backdrop, declining profits, problematic technology stock valuations, a shakier U.S. dollar -- before they sit down to their Christmas dinners and well after the last New Year's noisemaker is silenced. 

 Clement Gignac of National Bank Financial phoned us a week ago yesterday to lay down a Lunch Money challenge. After reading that we feared the Toronto Stock Exchange 300 composite index -- then sitting at a gain of just 4% for the year -- might not register a gain by year's end, he offered to buy us lunch if the advance was not 10% or more at the close of trade on Dec. 31. If it is, we buy lunch. 

 Lunch Money accepted the challenge and with the TSE 300 up 13.5% on the year at yesterday's close, it looks as though we might have to pay up. And we'd be happy to do it. 

 Meantime, investors will find comfort and joy in the historical record of the season: The TSE 300 almost always has a good December after it has poor November. 

 Perhaps we'll be able to thank Alan Grinchspan after all. 

whanley@nationalpost.com

Document finp000020010806dwc900y34
?
 

 Motorola's lowers Q4 earnings. 

195 words
9 December 2000
Channelnewsasia
CNEWAS
English
(c) 2000 MediaCorp News Pte Ltd. All Rights Reserved

 For the second time Motorola is cutting its fourth quarter earnings in as many months. 

 The world's number two mobile phone maker said it will earn US$0.15 a share in the fourth quarter, down from the US$0.27 figure given in October. 

 That projection had already been cut by US$0.10 cents a share. 

 Revenue is now expected at US$10 billion, down from October's estimate by US$500 million. 

 Motorola said a slowing market for semi-conductors along with problems in its handset product mix are once again causing more damage to the company's earnings, and that damage is more than had been anticipated. 

 The company is still paying dues for missing the market for low-end handsets. 

 Betting on more expensive mobile phones with web surfing capabilities and other luxuries proved ill-fated for the company which lost customers to more customer focused Nokia Corp. of Finland. 

 Nokia has of late eaten into the market share of key mobile phone manufacturers. 

 Loss of market share to Nokia was also seen as the force behind Ericsson's profit warning issued in October. 

Document cnewas0020010805dwc90023q
?
 Business 
 Nightly Business Report 

 Jeff Yastine, Susie Gharib 
4,308 words
8 December 2000
23:30
Nightly Business Report
NBR
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 SUSIE GHARIB, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT ANCHOR: Florida Supreme Court hands down a shocker in the presidential election battle. It orders a vote recount. The move gives new life to Al Gore`s campaign for the White House. Good evening, everyone. I`m Susie Gharib in New York City. 

 JEFF YASTINE, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT ANCHOR: And I`m Jeff Yastine in Miami. Paul Kangas is off tonight. New hopes on Wall Street for a cut in interest rates. And stocks rally. The Dow gained 95 points; the NASDAQ rising 164. Then, the stock picks of tonight`s market monitor have had a rough ride. We talk with Peter Green of Green-On-Money.com. 

 GHARIB: Good evening, everyone. A dramatic day of news in Florida, and on Wall Street. We begin with the latest on the presidential election. After the financial markets closed today, a stunning development from the Florida Supreme Court. It ruled that manual recounts of the so-called, "undervotes" begin immediately. This is a major victory for Vice President Al Gore, and gives new life for his hopes for the White House. Darren Gersh has details. 

 DARREN GERSH, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: The Florida Supreme Court was considered Al Gore`s last best hope for the White House, and with good reason. Today, the justices split 4 to 3 in the vice president`s favor. 

 CRAIG WATERS, SPOKESMAN, FLORIDA SUPREME COURT: The Circuit Court of the Second Judicial Circuit, here in Tallahassee, shall immediately begin a manual recount of the approximately 9,000 Miami-Dade ballots that registered undervotes. 

 GERSH: Analysts say the news stunned stock traders, who had largely built a Bush victory into their portfolios, sending stocks tumbling in after-hours trading. 

 STEVEN EAST, MARKET STRATEGIST, FRIEDMAN, BILLINGS, RAMSEY: With all the court victories up until this point, it looks like Bush has been the cat with eight lives, but he needs nine; and that ninth life, he might not get. 

 GERSH: For investors and the nation, the decision is almost guaranteed to bring weeks of more legal maneuvering. Even before the ruling, Texas governor, George W. Bush vowed an appeal. 

 GOV GEORGE W. BUSH, REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We`re prepared to, if need be, take our case back to the Supreme Court. But I hope that doesn`t have to happen. 

 GERSH: The odds now increase that the Florida legislature, which began debating the issue today, will move next week to appoint electors to keep the White House from Al Gore`s reach. 

 FLA SEN. JOHN MCKAY, R- SENATE PRESIDENT: We cannot abandon our constitutional duties, and let the six million Floridians who voted for the candidate of his or her choice not be heard. 

 GERSH: It is a move that is sure to inflame partisan passions. 

 FLA SEN. TOM ROSSIN, DEMOCRATIC LEADER: That this procedure is illegal, unconstitutional and just plain wrong. 

 GERSH: Analysts fear the partisan rancor and increased election uncertainty, which have dogged markets over the last month, may now begin to weigh on the economy itself. 

 CHARLES GABRIEL, POLITICAL ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: With consumer sentiment worsening and the possibility of four to five, six weeks of continued uncertainty in South Florida, all the way up to the Supreme Court, it`s just a nightmare in the making. 

 GERSH: So after considering this race all but over, it now looks like investors are now back to watching vote counts and spinning scenarios of constitutional showdowns. Darren Gersh, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, Washington. 

 YASTINE: The recount could have a major impact on the stock market, Monday; but today, Wall Street was bullish. Stocks rallied on a weaker-than-expected employment report. The Dow rose 95 points; the NASDAQ shot up 164. As Suzanne Pratt reports, investors are now counting on an interest rate cut. 

 SUSAN PRATT, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: The nation`s tight labor market may finally be showing signs that it`s easing up, at least a little bit. According to the latest jobs data, the unemployment rate inched up to 4 percent in November from October`s 3.9 percent, which had been a three-decade low. The economy created 94,000 new nonfarm jobs last month, far fewer than forecast; and that follows an even slimmer and revised increase of 77,000 in October. Economists say the one dark spot in the monthly report was that average hourly earnings jumped 0.4 percent. That`s good news for workers, but not so good for financial markets, which loath even whispers of inflation. Despite the inflationary aspect of today`s report, some economists say the fresh data raises the odds of a rate cut at the Federal Reserve`s first meeting in 2001, at the end of January. But others say the report is not likely to alter the path the Fed is already on, one which will see a neutral bias adopted at the Fed`s December 19 meeting, and a series of rate cuts next year. 

 DAVID JONES, CHIEF ECONOMIST, AUBREY G. LANSTON: If I had to make a guess, I would say they start in March, the second meeting of the year, March 20, and could be spread over a period let`s say, out through October 2, maybe three quarter-point cuts, which would bring the overnight federal funds rate down from 6.5 percent to say 5.75 percent. 

 PRATT: The stock market responded to the possibility that the Fed may begin to cut rates soon, and execute a soft landing. But some experts say there`s still some nervousness among investors that the economy will slow down, too much. 

 PHIL DOW, EQUITY STRATEGIST, DAIN RAUSCHER WESSELS: My guess is the market is still kind of operating in paranoid mode with regard to the economy. Nobody knows how far this slowdown in going to go, and the hope is that the Fed can keep it from going into a really "hard landing" mode. 

 PRATT: Most experts say the likelihood that the economy will suffer a hard landing next year is still pretty slim. But they say there`s no question that the chance of a recession has definitely grown in the last few months. Suzanne Pratt, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, New York. 

 YASTINE: Well today`s employment number, in anticipation of that Florida Supreme Court decision, put investors in a buying mood. They shook off last night`s revenue warning from Intel (INTC) and began buying the blue chips right from the opening bell. The Dow jumping about 100 points in the first hour of trading. Advancing issues outnumbered declining ones by a two-to-one margin. The rally was broad-based with financials and tech-oriented stocks leading the charge. By noontime, the Dow was up about 90 points. The NASDAQ Composite, seeing a big reaction as well, opening about 120 points higher, and doing kind of a sawtooth pattern throughout the day; generally higher though, gaining more than 150 points shortly after 2:00 p.m. Now later in the afternoon, some profit-taking for the blue chips came in. The Dow going on to close up 95 1/2 points at 10,712. This week, the Dow fell twice, and rose three times, for week-over- week gain of about 339 points, a 3.4 percent. The NASDAQ Composite bolting 164 points higher to end at 2917. This week, it rose twice and fell three times, for an overall advance of 217.14 points, that`s about a 10 percent gain there. 

 Big board volume weighing at 1.3 billion shares. Up volume outweighing down volume by a wide margin. 

 Transports gaining nearly 84 points, penetrating resistance levels of the past two weeks. Strength in airlines was certainly helpful there. 

 The Utilities rising about a-half point. 

 And the Closing Tick bullish at +800. 

 And the S&P indices each posting sizable gains of about 2 percent or more. 

 The Bridge CRB Index dipping about a-third of a point. 

 We have over a 10 1/2-point gain in the New York Exchange Composite. 

 An 11-point advance in the Value Line. 

 The Russell2000 Small Caps climbing nearly 18. 

 And the broadly-based Wilshire 5000 jumping 337 points. 

 Well, today`s employment data might have been bullish for bonds, but prices fell as some traders sold bonds to buy into the stock rally. There was also some concern that the data reflected a bit more wage inflation than some traders wanted. So corporates and munis finished unchanged. But Treasuries fell across the board. 

 The 5-year note dropping 8/32. 

 The 10-year note falling 1/32. 

 And the 30-year bond lost 18/32, the yield rising at 5.54 percent. 

 And the Lehman Brothers Long Bond Index falling about 8 1/4 points. 

 I`ll be back later to show you what else happened on Wall Street today. Susie. 

 GHARIB: Jeff, a difficult day for investors of Ask Jeeves (ASKJ), the Internet search engine. The stock plunged 60 percent today, down almost 6 points to $3.81. That`s a long way from its yearly high of $140. The catalyst for the sell-off was news of a management shake up and a warning late yesterday of a revenue shortfall. Ask Jeeves now expects a loss of $0.50 a share in the fourth quarter, $0.18 more than Wall Street expected. Also, CEO Rob Wrubel is being demoted to Executive Vice President. The stock was downgraded by two Wall Street brokerages. 

 YASTINE: Well, there`s no telling what will happen on Monday, but the bulls will take their gains when they can find them. Today was certainly one of those days. The blue chips ending up 95 1/2 points, the Dow at 10,712. You can see advancers an easy 2 to 1 lead there, 245 issues with a 52 week high, 60 with new lows. 

 MetLife (MET) rising more than $2. After the close it replaced Seagram`s (VO) in the S&P 500 Index, but J.P. Morgan downgraded the stock. 

 And there`s Seagram`s (VO) exiting the S&P 500 today. Index fund, of course, selling, and the company`s merger with Vivendi (V) and Canal Plus closed today. 

 Lucent Technologies (LU) gained $0.88. 

 And there`s Vivendi (V) finishing down $0.81. 

 Motorola (MOT) gaining $1.50 today. 

 Nortel (NT) rising more than $4, the Canadian firm signing a deal to deliver optical Ethernet systems to New Zealand. 

 Compaq (CPQ) gaining $0.15. 

 Texas Instruments (TXN) jumped $6.63 to $49.50. This has been a resistance level for that stock the last two months, but semiconductors doing quite strongly today despite Intel`s (INTC) revenue warning yesterday. 

 GE (GE) climbed $1.69. And Morgan Stanley setting a one year price target of 70 bucks. 

 Pfizer (PFE) rising just a fraction. 

 Among the widely helds, Coca-Cola Enterprises (CCE) falling $3. Next year`s earnings, it said, will be about 12 percent below Wall Street estimates. 

 GM (GM) slipped $0.38. 

 And ICICI (IC) climbing $1.31. The company`s board is meeting on Monday to consider a merger with India`s Bank of Madura, terms not disclosed there. 

 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter (MWD) picking up 6 1/3 points on the Merrill Lynch upgrade from "neutral" to "accumulate." 

 Rockwell International (ROK) gaining $2.69. It announced plans to spin off its avionics and communications unit to shareholders. 

 And Stilwell Financial (SV) moved up $6.06, the Kansas City firm getting a new $600 million credit facility. 

 Specialty Labs (SP) advancing 7 1/3 points today went public with 5 million shares priced at $16 each. The symbol is SP. 

 Dave & Buster`s (DAB) jumping $2.38 to a high for the year, third quarter earnings coming in at $0.12 a share. That was up from $0.02 a share a year ago and that was a 34 percent rise in revenues. 

 W.P. Stewart (WPL) jumping 4 1/2, the asset management firm going public with 11.2 million shares at $20. 

 AMCOL International (ACO) falling $1.31. The company`s policy not to comment on trading activity. 

 Empire District Electric (EDE) down $3.69. On Monday, the stock will exit the S&P Small Cap 600 Index. 

 Three-Five Systems (TFS) giving up $2.25. Yesterday it fell about $2.50 after warning profits and revenues in the fourth quarter will be 50 percent below Street estimates of $0.20 a share. 

 On the NASDAQ, soaring 164 points, volume 2.3 billion shares, 1,663 more issues up than down. 

 Among the leaders here-and by the way, nearly all of these are actually trading lower in after hours because of that Florida Supreme Court decision. 

 Sun Microsystems (SUNW) ending down $3.88. Shares dropped on rumors of an accounting irregularity at Sun, which was sweeping 

 Wall Street today. But an analyst at Merrill Lynch said there`s no reason to believe those rumors were true. 

 CIENA (CIEN) rising $18.38. An IRS inquiry into the company`s financial statements was announced for 1997 and `98. The company said it doesn`t expect any financial impact. 

 Microsoft (MSFT) gaining $1.31. 

 Intel (INTC) rising $1.69. 

 And Cisco (CSCO) tacking on $2.44. It`s trading at about 50 bucks after hours, though. 

 Juniper Networks (JNPR) climbing $17.25 but it lost about $11 in after hours trading. 

 Intuit (INTU) edged up $0.69. 

 JDS Uniphase (JDSU) rising more than 7 points. 

 QUALCOMM (QCOM) dipped about $1.19. 

 And Brocade Communications Systems (BRCD) ending up $18.75. 

 There`s a new issue here, a communications and navigations device maker Garmin (GRMN), with a new IPO going public, 10 1/2 million shares. 

 PC Communications (PCCC) dropping $7.69. That`s a new 52 week low there. 

 And California Amplifier (CAMP) rising $5.31. That`s on a fourth quarter profit warning. Earnings expected to be about half the previous $0.17 estimate. 

 On the American Exchange, the Composite Index gaining 22 points for the week. It gained about 20 points. 

 And among the movers here, Stav Electronics (SES) rising 2. Shareholders are OKing its acquisition of Marnetics. Stav is an electrical and communications contractor based in Israel. 

 And Tengasco (TGC) rising $1.38. The company is about a week away from completing an important 60 mile natural gas pipeline in Tennessee. 

 And the Index Shares all actually closed much higher at 4:00 P.M., but those quotes actually reflect-the ones you see here on the screen-actually reflect the after hours news from the Florida Supreme Court. 

 So, Susie, that`s the Wall Street Wrap Up. 

 GHARIB: Well, Jeff, as you reported, it was an up day for the NASDAQ and also a positive day for the man who will be the new CEO Of the NASDAQ. Hardwick Simmons, the former CEO of Prudential Securities, has been tapped to head up the NASDAQ stock market. Simmons takes over February 1st, replacing Frank Zarb, who will stay on as Chairman for up to a year. The appointment is the latest in a series of changes as the NASDAQ prepares to be spun off from the NASD. 

 YASTINE: Monday, what you can do now to lower Uncle Sam`s cut of your earnings this year. 

 GHARIB: Brokerage firm Charles Schwab (SCH) said today its Web trading site has a security flaw that could leave its customers` accounts vulnerable to hackers. But the company says that the risk is small and no user accounts have been impacted. Schwab is the largest online trading system in the country with more than four million accounts. The news didn`t bother investors. Schwab`s stock rose more than $2 to $30.69. 

 YASTINE: The failed purchase of NorthPoint Communications (NPNT) by Verizon (VZ) is heading toward an endpoint. NorthPoint today filed suit against its former partner. Verizon backed out of the $1 billion deal on concerns about NorthPoint`s financial situation. NorthPoint now claims that move had no legal or factual basis. NorthPoint stock closed unchanged at under a $1. Verizon fell $1.69 to $56.19. 

 GHARIB: Coming up next week, our Friday market monitor is Carl Marker, Portfolio Manager of the IMS Capital Value Fund. In the BridgeNews Watch Monday, wholesale trade numbers for October. Wednesday, retail sales for November. Thursday, it`s the Producer Price Index. Then on Friday, it`s the Consumer Price Index for November. 

 GHARIB: Our market monitor guest tonight is Peter Green, Editor of Green-On-Money.com. Nice to have you, Peter. 

 PETER GREEN, EDITOR, GREEN-ON-MONEY.COM: Thank you. Nice to be here. 

 GHARIB: Well, let`s talk about what`s going to happen on Monday given today`s ruling by the Florida Supreme Court. What does this mean for trading on Wall Street? 

 GREEN: Well, it means on Monday I would think that they`re going to sell off, first of all, and just make up their mind and see what the other traders think. But when in doubt, they usually sell. 

 GHARIB: What do you think-what is your take on the markets just generally? 

 GREEN: Well, I think they`re a little shaky right now. They`ve had enough of all the unsettlement. We`ve really missed the year end rally, most of it anyway. It should have started in early November and now we`ve had this continual legal battle over who`s going to be the next president and people are pretty beaten up over the whole thing, I think. 

 GHARIB: Well, whether you`re a Democrat or whether you`re a Republican, you are an investor, and what should investors be doing, in your view? 

 GREEN: I think you`ve got to be looking at 2001 and getting all set to look for what should be a pretty good year. We`ve had a bad year. It`s been a bad year, no doubt about it. But we did have four good years so you`re going to get a bad one once in a while. 

 GHARIB: It`s been a rough year for you, too, Peter. 

 GREEN: I know it has. 

 GHARIB: I was looking over some of the stocks that you were talking about on our show back in June. They`ve done, you know, it`s been difficult, to put it mildly. Amazon (AMZN), eBay (EBAY), Yahoo! (YHOO), Covad Communications (COVD), Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), Oracle (ORCL), a lot of these are high tech companies and Ericsson (ERICY), all have been cut down dramatically since you recommended them in June. 

 GREEN: Right. 

 GHARIB: What did you do with your holdings in those stocks? 

 GREEN: Well, I sold the Yahoo!, Amazon and eBay about three weeks after the program, and then the rest have been sold since then. I had tried to be a tax efficient investor. I decided to save money instead. So there was a lot of selling. 

 GHARIB: So, what is your view on stocks like this, on these technology stocks and some of them Internet stocks? 

 GREEN: I think you`ve got to wait, I think they`re going to come back into favor, but you want to wait till they start rolling. These are momentum stocks. Be sure there`s momentum before you buy them, because they have a nasty way of dropping. So don`t get in early. Let the other people get in early and then jump on the horse later. 

 GHARIB: So, what`s your view now? What are some of the stocks that you`re buying that you feel good about that have momentum? 

 GREEN: I like, well, Rite Aid (RAD) doesn`t have momentum, but I think it`s a terrific turnaround. It`s in the drugstore sector. It has 3,800 stores. They have a new management team from Fred Meyer`s. They only closed 150 stores so they must have very good locations. 

 GHARIB: But it`s a troubled stock, isn`t it? 

 GREEN: It is a troubled stock, but it`s not as troubled as its price may show. And if CVS (CVS) is selling for $53 and Rite Aid is selling for $2.50, there`s a wide spread there. It looks like a $20 stock to me. 

 GHARIB: From $2 to $20? 

 GREEN: Yeah. 

 GHARIB: Over what time period? 

 GREEN: Over six months, or maybe less than that. If people jump on it, it will go. 

 GHARIB: All right, what other stocks do you like right now? 

 GREEN: I like Nokia (NOK). These wireless is going to continue being replaced. It`s really becoming an addiction with people. They have to be on the phone all the time no matter what they`re doing. I like Wal*mart (WMT) - 

 GHARIB: So you-well, let me just back up a little. 

 GREEN: Sure. 

 GHARIB: Even though you have not been very successful with other telecommunication stocks, you`re still feeling positive about Nokia? 

 GREEN: Oh, well absolutely. I mean it`s the future. This is what you invest in. 

 GHARIB: And you were saying, what else do you like? 

 GREEN: I like Wal*Mart. If there is a recession, people will be a little more careful with what they buy. They want to get a good price. Wal*Mart is great at buying huge amounts. 

 GHARIB: It`s at $54 now. What`s your target on it? 

 GREEN: I would say $70. Citigroup, Procter & Gamble (PG) and the Qs (QQQ) for play in the NASDAQ. 

 GHARIB: The Qs? Now, wouldn`t that be a little risky given that so many of the NASDAQ Qs are technology stocks that are very volatile? 

 GREEN: You`ve got diversification so if you`ve got a diversification across the NASDAQ, I think that`s really worth the risk. 

 GHARIB: And what is your outlook for the NASDAQ? 

 GREEN: I think it`s going to be good. 

 GHARIB: It`s at 2900 now but some people are saying it`s going to test the 2500 level. 

 GREEN: Well, it could test the 2500 but I think it will be a quick test and I think when January the 1st comes around, people will start having a different frame of mind. We`ve almost had a rational depression right now and I`m looking for the Chairman Greenspan to reduce rates even at the December meeting. 

 GHARIB: Do you, which is, there are a number of people who- 

 GREEN: Pretty soon. 

 GHARIB: -- yeah, say that it might not happen in December, but it could happen in January. But let`s say that Mr. Greenspan does cut interest rates and earnings, we still get all of these difficult earnings in the first quarter. What will that mean for stocks? 

 GREEN: I think it`s such a signal that the Fed realizes there could be trouble that I think it`s good news for stocks. And the earnings will settle down and you`re right, there may be bad earnings because if we are going into a recession, there will be lower earnings. 

 GHARIB: All right, well, we`ll see what happens in the new year and hopefully you`ll come back and visit us then. 

 GREEN: My pleasure. Thank you. 

 GHARIB: Thank you so much, Peter. And our market monitor guest, Peter Green, Editor of Green-On-Money.com. 

 YASTINE: Recapping today`s market action, the Dow gaining 95 points. The NASDAQ gained 164. And please be sure to join us at our World Wide Web site, NBR.com. 

 GHARIB: And finally, as the presidential election drags on, both men have the stamp of approval from the nation of Liberia, literally. That African government routinely issues stamps with the face of American presidents, so it made two sets this year, one with Al Gore and one with George with. Bush. One was to go on sale the day after the election. The other was to be destroyed. But because of all the confusion over the outcome, both sets were put on sale. And Jeff, collectors predict that the losing candidate`s stamp will eventually be more valuable than the winner`s. 

 YASTINE: That`s right. If not now, then later, I guess. Well, that`s NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT for Friday, December 8th. We want to remind you this is the time of year your public television station seeks viewer support. 

 GHARIB: The kind of support that makes programs like NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT possible. 

 YASTINE: Thanks for joining us. I`m Jeff Yastine. Have a great weekend, everyone. Same to you, Susie. 

 GHARIB: And the same to you, Jeff. I`m Susie Gharib. We`ll see all of you again next week. 

 Nightly Business Report transcripts are available on-line post broadcast. The program is transcribed by FDCH. Updates may be posted at a later date. The views of our guests and commentators are their own and do not necessarily represent the views of Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. Nightly Business Report, or WPBT. Information presented on Nightly Business Report is not and should not be considered as investment advice. c 2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. 

 END 

 TO PURCHASE A VIDEOTAPE OF THIS PIECE, PLEASE CALL  888-266-3601 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc.  Formatting and transcription copyright 2000 eMediaMillWorks, Inc.  (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No quotes from the materials contained herein may be used in any media without attribution to Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. This transcript may not be copied or resold in any media. 

Document nbr0000020010808dwc80006u
?
 

 RESEARCH ALERT-Bernstein cuts views on Coca-Cola volume, EPS. 

646 words
8 December 2000
20:44
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 8 (Reuters) - Sanford C. Bernstein on Friday said beverage analyst William Pecoriello cut his fourth-quarter and 2001 estimates on Coca-Cola Co. global volume growth and also cut his 2001 earnings per share estimate on the world's No. 1 soft drink maker. 

 Pecoriello's changes came less than a day after Coca-Cola's largest bottler, Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. , issued a profit warning for 2001. 

 Pecoriello cut his estimate on Coca-Cola global volume growth to 3.8 percent from 4.5 percent, citing a more conservative stance on North America, Coca-Cola Enterprises Europe and South Africa. 

 Pecoriello expects 1 percent growth versus 2 percent growth in North America, 4 percent growth versus 6 percent growth for Coca-Cola Enterprises Europe, and 3 percent versus 10 percent growth in South Africa, he said in a research note. 

 Pecoriello cut his 2001 volume growth estimate to 5.5 percent from 6 percent by lowering his North America volume growth estimate to 3 percent from 4 percent. 

 He cut his 2001 EPS estimate to $1.70 from $.174 as a result of higher anticipated marketing spending. 

 Pecoriello maintained his fourth quarter Coca-Cola EPS estimate of 39 cents, his outperform rating and his $70 12-month price target on the shares. 

 Pecoriello said that Coca-Cola/Coca-Cola Enterprises' 3 percent to 4 percent U.S. volume estimate for 2001 is at risk as Coca-Cola Enterprises will attempt to take supermarket prices up 3 percent and the success of Coca-Cola marketing and new product introductions is uncertain. 

 Pecoriello said evidence shows that Grinch $1.99/12 pack specials during November have still resulted in take-home volume being down. 

 He said earnings of 58 cents per share for Coca-Cola Enterprises in 2001 "is still at risk" as the plan includes realizing 4 percent increase in revenue per case, which Pecoriello said seems aggressive. The plan also assumes 3 percent to 4 percent U.S. volume growth, which also is on the high-end of his expectations. 

 Earlier Friday, Pecoriello cut his 2001 EPS estimate on Coca-Cola Enterprises to 58 cents from 60 cents. 

 Pecoriello also noted that pricing pressure in the UK could continue from 2001-2004, resulting in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) growth of 7 percent to 8 percent versus the 8 to 10 percent Coca-Cola Enterprises would like to deliver after 2001. 

 Coca-Cola has volume and profit risk in the United States, Pecoriello said, with concentrate prices going up 2.5 percent and volume growing 3 percent in 2001. 

 He said that Coca-Cola's "increased spending to build brand equity across its portfolio creates profit risk" and that he sees risk over the next 2 quarters. 

 Pecoriello said that while the uncertainty surrounding Coca-Cola Enterprises's volume and profits for 2001 creates uncertainty for Pepsi Bottling Group Inc. , the largest bottler of PepsiCo Inc. beverages, he believes that Coca-Cola/Coca-Cola Enterprises "will not become irrational and that PBG's cost advantages and strong non-carb portfolio will result in 11 percent EBITDA growth" next year. 

 Pecoriello said that Coca-Cola Enterprises' "attempts to introduce a low-end water next year could cannibalize Dasani." 

 During a meeting with analysts on Friday, Coca-Cola Enterprises said that Dasani will not be the only water brand that it will have in 2001. 

 Pecoriello said he remains cautious on Coca-Cola Enterprises "given risks across several fronts." 

 Late Friday afternoon, shares of Coca-Cola were off $1-3/16 at $61-3/16 and shares of Coca-Cola Enterprises were down $3-1/16 at $19-7/8. PepsiCo shares were up 5/8 at $47-9/16 and Pepsi Bottling shares gained 7/8 to $40-1/16. 

Document lba0000020010821dwc80ar21
?
 

 Coca-Cola Enterprises falls after  profit warning . 

353 words
8 December 2000
16:28
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 ATLANTA, Dec 8 (Reuters) - Shares of Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc., the world's largest bottler of Coca-Cola soft drinks, dropped more than 13 percent on Friday, less than a day after the company issued a profit warning for 2001. 

 The Atlanta company's, which have ranged between $14 and $30-1/4 in the past year, fell $3 to $19-15/16 in late morning trading on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Coca-Cola Enterprises is about 40-percent owned by soft drink giant Coca-Cola Co., whose stock fell $1-1/16, or 1.7 percent, to $61-5/16 a share on the NYSE. 

 The Coke bottler said late on Thursday that it expects to earn about 60 cents a share in 2001, excluding the impact of currency changes. That estimate would fall by 1 or 2 cents if currency exchange rates remain at current levels. 

 Wall Street analysts had expected the bottler to earn 68 cents a share in 2001, according to First Call/Thomson Financial, which tracks such estimates. 

 "We continue to be cautious on CCE stock," Merrill Lynch analyst Doug Lane said in a research report on Friday. 

 Lane, who lowered his 2001 earnings estimate for the company to 58 cents a share from 65 cents, said the lower profit outlook "must be attributable to weaker than expected pricing and/or higher than expected costs." 

 On Thursday, Coca-Cola Enterprises blamed the anticipated profit shortfall on a combination of a strong British pound and weak euro, which makes the products of its European competitors more attractive in the British market. 

 It was the second time in the past seven months that the company had cited currency swings in Europe as the impetus for lowering profit expectations. 

 Coca-Cola Enterprises said it continued to expect earnings of 50 cents a share in 2000, but noted fourth-quarter volume growth in its key North American market would be lower than previously expected due to weakness in the Canadian market. 

 The company was scheduled to meet with analysts in New York on Friday. 

Document lba0000020010821dwc80aqru
?
 

 Toronto stocks may open higher despite Intel warning. 

330 words
8 December 2000
14:24
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 TORONTO, Dec 8 (Reuters) - Toronto's main stock index was expected to open flat to higher on Friday, analysts said, as investors had digested the bad news about more profit warnings and waited anxiously for hints from the U.S. Federal Reserve of lower interest rates next year. 

 "It seems like the market has already factored in the earnings warning from Intel Corp. . Its stock was up in overseas trading and is up in pre-open trading," said Rob Chopowick, manager of research services at TD Evergreen in Toronto. 

 "I think investors are overlooking earnings warnings right now in anticipation of some good news from the U.S. Federal Reserve," he added. 

 Comments from Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan this week that the Fed must be alert to any "excessive softening" in demand bolstered investors' belief that the world's largest economy had slowed considerably. 

 The market interpreted this as a hint that the Fed may cut rates in the near future after having increased Corporate America's borrowing cost six times since the summer of 1999. 

 The TSE 300 composite index drooped on Thursday under the weight of technology warnings south of the border, closing down nearly 0.7 percent at 9166.08. Its biggest stock, Nortel Networks Corp. , ended C$2.50 lower at C$58.80. 

 Analysts and traders said technology stocks, which have slumped during the past two days because of profit warnings from Apple Computer Inc. and Motorola Inc. , would not fall for the third day despite another profit warning from giant Intel. 

 Chopowick said the communications and media sector would be in the limelight on Friday after Shaw Communications , Canada's second-largest cable company, said it would buy rival Moffat Communications . 

 Traders said retail and consumer product shares could come under slight pressure as Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc said it expects fiscal 2001 earnings to be lower than Wall Street's expectations. 

 ($1=$1.53 Canadian). 

Document lba0000020010821dwc80apv4
?
 

 U.S. stocks to rally despite Intel warning - data helping. 

 By Haitham Haddadin 
812 words
8 December 2000
14:04
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 8 (Reuters) - Wall Street eyes a rally at the open on Friday despite a warning of slowing sales from No.1 computer chip maker Intel Corp, with analysts saying such bad news is already factored into rock bottom tech issue prices. 

 Supporting the advance, analysts said, was economic data showing signs of easing in the tight U.S. labor market, which strengthened market belief that U.S. economic growth is slowing enough to allow the Federal Reserve to cut interest rates early next year. 

 Major stock-index futures, which had been up before the data was released, rose further before the open. 

 The Labor Department data issued at 8.30 a.m. EST (1330 GMT) showed U.S. non-farm payrolls grew by 94,000 last month, while the unemployment rate was 4.0 percent. Economists polled by Reuters forecast on average that the unemployment rate would rise to 4.0 percent from a 30-year low of 3.9 percent, while November non-farm payrolls were expected to rise by 140,000. 

 "The stock market is going to react positively. This is an in-line number," said Arthur Hogan, chief market strategist at Jefferies & Co.. 

 "... Our belief is that the Fed is going to ease sooner rather than later. The markets should have a very strong day." 

 About half an hour from the open, Nasdaq 100 index futures for March, now the lead month replacing December futures, were still holding "limit up" 95 points higher at 2,817.50, indicating a gain of more than 3 percent at the open on the technology-heavy stock market. S&P 500 March futures added to earlier gains, up 18.50 points at 1,375. 

 Technology stocks slumped in the last two sessions following a stellar rally earlier this week after a string of warnings of disappointing results from mobile phone giant Motorola Inc. and computer makers Apple Computer Inc. and Gateway Inc.. 

 Then Intel warned after Thursday's close that fourth-quarter revenue would be lower than expected due to slowing personal computer demand. Intel shares, which had finished Thursday's session at $32-5/16, fell to as low as $30 in after-hours trade before rebounding and were up at $33-5/8 in pre-open trade Friday. 

 "You've already seen Apple, Dell and Hewlett-Packard and others guide (analysts) downward on personal computers. After a while you get the message that it stinks," said Prudential Securities analysts Larry Wachtel. 

 "Intel is down from $75 (year high) to $32 and then you hit us with bad news after the close yesterday. Well, that's already in there," Wachtel said. "How much further down can we go?" 

 Comments from Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan this week that the U.S. central bank must be alert to any "excessive softening" in demand bolstered investors' belief that the world's largest economy had slowed considerably. The market interpreted this as a hint the Fed may cut rates in the near future after having increased Corporate America's borrowing cost six times since the summer of 1999. 

 Some investors are also anticipating a resolution of the U.S. presidential contest, which has cast a pall on Wall Street since the Nov. 7 election. A ruling by Florida's Supreme Court, possibly on Friday, could determine the outcome of a month-long legal struggle between Democrat Al Gore and Republican George W. Bush for the White House. 

 "It could well be that the presidential situation could be over also if all the courts involved do make their rulings today," Prudential's Wachtel said. 

 Paul Cherney, market analyst at S&P Marketscope, agreed. "If we get any news that brings the election to a closure, we should see a further advance on the day," Cherney added. 

 Thursday's market jitters, due mostly to a profit warning from mobile phone giant Motorola Inc., cut a bit further into Tuesday's stellar rally, when the tech-heavy Nasdaq market posted its biggest gain in its 29-year history after the U.S. central bank chief raised expectations for a near-term interest-rate cut. 

 The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index ended down 43.84 points, or 1.57 percent, at 2,752.66 and the blue chip Dow Jones industrial average finished off 47.02 points, or 0.44 percent, at 10,617.36. 

 In overseas markets, Tokyo stocks closed slightly easier Friday, as buying of "old economy" shares failed to fully offset declines among tech stocks such as Sony Corp prompted by more profit warnings by major U.S. technology companies. In Europe, technology and other issues, backed by the sharply higher Nasdaq futures, lifted bourses across the continent by midsession as investors awaited the U.S. payrolls data. 

Document lba0000020010821dwc80apsu
?
 

 UPDATE 1 - Danish NKT issues 2000  profit warning . 

265 words
8 December 2000
12:09
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 COPENHAGEN, Dec 8 (Reuters) - Danish computer chip, vacuum cleaner and cable maker NKT Holding on Friday cut its 2000 profit forecast to 4.0 billion DKK ($476.6 million) as a result of write-downs in its subsidiary NKT Cables. 

 "A provision of DKK 500 million will be made, primarily to cover write-downs as a result of adjustments in business operations," it said in a statement. 

 NKT Holding earlier saw net profits of 4.5 billion crowns in 2000. 

 NKT's share, one of the top performers on Copenhagen's bourse this year, immediately fell more than five percent after the announcement. At 1155 GMT the share stood at 1,870 crowns, down 75 crowns or 3.8 percent from 1,945 crowns before the announcement. 

 "Market prospects for power cables remain unfavourable," NKT said adding that steps to focus the cable group's activities and thereby reduce its risk profile had been taken. 

 A restructuring project in the group's troubled vacuum cleaner division Nilfisk-Advance proved to be more extensive than previously expected, it said. 

 "The expectation is still that the current problems will be overcome during the course of 2001." 

 NKT Holding said it planned an initial public offering of Nilfisk-Advance shares prior to 2005. 

 The group's golden egg fibre-optic chip maker IONAS said it intended to speed up expansion of its production capacity. 

 NKT management said it would propose the implementation of a one to five share split at the group's annual general meeting in April next year. 

Document lba0000020010821dwc80ap16
?
 

 Danish NKT issues  profit warning ,plans share split. 

114 words
8 December 2000
11:43
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 COPENHAGEN, Dec 8 (Reuters) - Danish computer chip, vaccum cleaner and cable maker NKT Holding said on Friday it cut its 2000 profit forecast to 4.0 bln Danish crowns ($476.6 mln) as a result of write-downs in its subsidiary NKT Cables. 

 "A provision of DKK 500 million will be made, primarily to cover write-downs as a result of adjustments in business operations," it said in a statement. 

 NKT Holding earlier saw net profits of 4.5 billion crowns in 2000. 

 The management said it would propose a one-to-five share split at the group's annual general meeting in April next year. 

Document lba0000020010821dwc80aouc
?
 

 Firm Intel in Europe boosts NY prospects. 

489 words
8 December 2000
11:42
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, Dec 8 (Reuters) - A rebound in Intel Corp. shares, despite Thursday's warning from the chipmaker, cast a glow over Wall Street's prospects on Friday and sent futures on the Nasdaq Composite index sharply higher, dealers in Europe said. 

 Intel joined the list of tech sector leaders making cautious comments on the fourth quarter outlook, warning of disappointing fourth quarter revenues, yet investors shrugged them off as already implied by other profit warnings in the sector. 

 On Instinet, Intel was changing hands at $32-5/8 by 1120 GMT, having rebounded from an initial $2 drop in after hours trade in New York to improve on its $32-5/16 close in New York. 

 Buoyed by Intel's resilience, the March future on the Nasdaq Composite was up 87.5 points at 2,810.0, while the same contract on the broadly-based S&P 500 index gained 13.0 points to 1,369.5. 

 Dealers said the advance on the Nasdaq was the key talking point as the index attempts to rally from 16-month lows seen last week. "What everyone is talking about is the Nasdaq future being up, a lot of people like to see that," said one. 

 The robust performance in Intel stirred interest in other tech stocks, with Motorola Inc. trading at $18 on Instinet compared with a $17-3/4 close in New York and Microsoft Corp. at $54 compared with $53-1/8, though dealers said volume in both was small. 

 Dealers added that prospects for the Wall Street opening still hinged on jobs figures due out at 1330 GMT and which could give a further indication of likely Federal Reserve policy at the next monetary meeting on December 19. 

 Payrolls were expected to show a rise of 140,000 in November, little changed on the 137,000 jobs created in the previous month. 

 Investors will be looking for confirmation that economic growth is slackening fast enough to justify lower interest rates or a change in the central bank's current policy bias towards a further tightening - though signs of a too-rapid slowdown could also be taken negatively. 

 Comments from Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan earlier this week were taken as increasing the chances of a rate cut early in the New Year, boosting markets worldwide, though if growth evaporates it would put further pressure on company profit prospects. 

 On Thursday, U.S. tech stocks had come under pressure for a second straight session after Motorola's warning of soft sales and earnings. The Nasdaq ended down 43.84 points or 1.6 percent at 2,752.66, after racing up more than 10 percent during Tuesday's "Greenspan rally." 

 Blue-chip stocks also sagged, weighed down by high-tech and basic materials issues. The Dow Jones industrial average finished off 47.02 points or 0.4 percent at 10,617.36. 

Document lba0000020010821dwc80aou6
?
 

 UPDATE 3-Intel warns 4th-quarter revenues below expectations. 

 By Duncan Martell 
887 words
8 December 2000
00:13
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 SAN FRANCISCO, Dec 7 (Reuters) - Mighty Intel Corp. held out for as long as it could but ultimately joined a host of marquee technology companies when it said on Thursday fourth-quarter sales will lag forecasts, blaming the shortfall on a slowing worldwide economy. 

 As the biggest maker of microprocessors, the brains of personal computers, Intel's shortfall will likely weigh on stock markets Friday. If not the period at the end of an already long-winded sentence of profit warnings, it is certainly a most visible semi-colon. 

 The warning - its second consecutive caution after going more than two years without issuing one - places Intel among a clutch of tech giants that have warned of weaker than expected results, including Gateway Inc., Apple Computer Inc., Dell Computer Corp., and Motorola Inc.. 

 "You can't have Dell, Apple and Motorola and others having trouble and it not affecting Intel in some way," Gary Helmig, computer analyst for Wit SoundView said. "It's going to be a harsh day on Wall Street tomorrow." 

 The revised sales guidance is lower than the previous expectation that fourth-quarter revenue would rise 4 percent to 8 percent from third-quarter revenue of $8.73 billion. Analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial had expected sales of $9.26 billion and per-share earnings of 42 cents. 

 SLOWING TO A CRAWL 

 Intel's dismal news, while it seemed inevitable to many given the sheer number of profit warnings from related high-tech companies, comes barely a month after the world's biggest chipmaker said everything was just fine, thank you very much. Such a reversal of fortune showed just how quickly fortunes can change in the so-called New Economy. 

 "We have started well in the fourth quarter and we are on track to meet our guidance," Sean Maloney, Intel's head of sales and marketing, told analysts on Nov. 1 in a conference call broadcast over the Internet. 

 Clearly, that running start has slowed to a crawl. Intel's sales warning comes after Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said on Tuesday the U.S. central bank had to be alert to the risk of a sharp economic slowdown as inflation was no longer the prime threat to the decade-long economic expansion. 

 "What we believe is happening is a worldwide economic slowdown," Intel's Chief Financial Officer, Andy Bryant, said in an interview. "It's every place in the world, and it's nearly every product we sell." 

 Hewlett-Packard Co.'s Chairman and Chief Executive Carly Fiorina told analysts Wednesday that she believed the U.S. economy was clearly slowing, but that it would be a "soft landing," rather than an abrupt decline. H-P said it sees softer PC sales in the current quarter but that overall results are still on track to meet estimates. 

 From motherboards, to microprocessors for servers, PCs, laptops, from networking equipment to networking processors, demand was weaker than he had expected, Bryant said. Sales sales of flash memory chips - which had been in tight supply for months - were the only exception. Consumer and corporate sales of PCs had slowed particularly in the U.S. and Europe and Asia had also slowed down, Maloney said on a Thursday call. 

 Intel shares were halted just after the close of regular-session trading on Nasdaq. The stock closed up 9/16 at $32-5/16, but had traded within a quarter point of its 52-week low of $31-1/4 in mid-session activity. The stock is more than 50 percent off its 12-month high of $75-13/16. 

 In after-hours trading the stock fell to $31 on Island, the alternative electronic trading system, but then gained marginally as investors appeared to believe an Intel profit warning was a fait accompli. 

 BOATLOAD OF INVENTORY? 

 "The market was expecting it already and was holding out for a sliver of hope but it just didn't happen," said U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray analyst Ashok Kumar. "What can you do?" 

 Intel also said its fourth-quarter gross margin - the percentage of revenue left after subtracting product costs - will remain unchanged at 63 percent, give or take a point. 

 Expenses in the fourth quarter are now expected to be about flat with third-quarter expenses of $2.3 billion. That is lower than the previous expectation that fourth-quarter expenses would be up 6 to 8 percent from third-quarter expenses, due primarily to a slowdown in discretionary spending and lower revenue-dependent and profit-dependent expenses. 

 Capital spending for 2000 is now expected at $6.5 billion, up from earlier estimates of $6.0 billion, Intel said. 

 Bryant also said that, contrary to concerns voiced by some analysts, there won't be a slew of unsold microprocessors that will carry over into the first quarter, possibly damping sales again. 

 Inventories among most of its customers were "within historical norms," Bryant said, adding "Some customers and geographies may have some issues but overall it's not a big problem." 

 Analyst Kumar wasn't so sanguine. 

 "If they can't even grow sequentially 3 to 4 percent in units from the third quarter, they will have to deal with a boatload of inventory problems," Kumar said. 

Document lba0000020010821dwc80anjl
?
 

 UPDATE 1-Coca-Cola Enterprises falls after  profit warning . 

805 words
8 December 2000
22:32
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 (recasts, adds analyst comments, details, changes dateline, pvs ATLANTA, updates stocks to close) 

 NEW YORK, Dec 8 (Reuters) - Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. shares fell more than 13 percent on Friday, even as company executives tried to reassure nervous investors that the the world's largest bottler of Coca-Cola soft drinks has a plan to put floundering profits and sales back on track. 

 The morning after the company startled Wall Street with a profit warning, executives of the Atlanta-based company told analysts they plan to focus on growing the noncarbonated drinks business, possibly through acquisitions. They also spoke of plans to improve marketing and advertising efforts in Great Britian, where currency woes have also been a problem. 

 Even so, Coca-Cola Enterprises' shares fell $3, or 13 percent, to $19-15/16 on the New York Stock Exchange on Friday, making them one of the biggest losers in percentage terms. The shares, which have traded between $14 and $30-1/4 in the past year, dipped as low as $19-3/4 during the session. 

 The Coca-Cola bottler warned late on Thursday that it expects to earn about 60 cents a share in 2001 - eight cents shy of the consensus forecast - excluding the impact of currency changes. That estimate would fall by 1 or 2 cents if currency exchange rates remain at current levels. 

 Wall Street analysts had expected the bottler to earn 68 cents a share in 2001, according to First Call/Thomson Financial, which tracks such estimates. 

 Coca-Cola Enterprises blamed the anticipated profit shortfall on a combination of a strong British pound and weak euro, which makes the products of its European competitors more attractive in the British market. 

 Coca-Cola Enterprises is about 40 percent owned by soft drink giant Coca-Cola Co., whose stock fell $1-1/2, or 2.4 percent, to $60-7/8 per share on the NYSE. 

 Coca-Cola Enterprises executives told analysts in a meeting here on Friday they expect 3 percent to 4 percent volume growth and a 4 percent pricing increase in North America next year. 

 President and Chief Operating Officer John Alm said the bottler plans a "significant aggressive roll-out of new brands" of noncarbonated drinks, which are growing at a much faster rate than carbonated drinks such as Coca-Cola and Sprite. 

 But analysts who attended were not fully convinced the company could meet those financial goals. 

 "I think those seem to be fairly aggressive targets," Credit Suisse First Boston analyst Skip Carpenter said. 

 "Based on another round of price hikes that they have planned in trying to achieve the volume targets that they have, I think we could be setting ourselves up for further disappointments down the road." 

 Other analysts also seemed wary of the company's outlook. 

 "We continue to be cautious on CCE stock," Merrill Lynch analyst Doug Lane said in a research report on Friday. 

 Lane, who lowered his 2001 earnings estimate for the company to 58 cents a share from 65 cents, said the lower profit outlook "must be attributable to weaker than expected pricing and/or higher than expected costs." 

 Sanford C. Bernstein's William Pecoriello lowered his 2001 earnings estimate to 58 cents a share from 60 cents "to reflect the lower 2000 profit base," he said in a note. Bernstein also cut his 2001 earnings target for Coca-Cola to $1.70 per share from $1.74 based on an anticipated rise in marketing spending. 

 Thursday's warning was the second time in the past seven months that Coca-Cola Enterprises had cited currency swings in Europe as the impetus for lowering profit expectations. 

 "International market(s) don't tend to follow the same patterns as they do in the U.S.," Carpenter said. "You need to be cognizant of that, and sometimes those challenges can be quite severe." 

 Coca-Cola Enterprises said it continued to expect earnings of 50 cents a share in 2000, but noted fourth-quarter volume growth in its key North American market would be lower than previously expected due to weakness in the Canadian market. 

 The drag on Coca-Cola Enterprises and Coca-Cola did not weigh down on the companies' main competitors or on another Coca-Cola bottler. 

 Shares of Purchase, N.Y. based PepsiCo Inc. ended the day up 1/2 at $47-7/16. Shares of its largest bottler, Pepsi Bottling Group Inc. closed up 11/16 at $39-7/8, and shares of Whitman Corp., the No. 2 bottler of Pepsi-Cola Co. drinks, ended up 7/8 at $16-1/4, a new 52-week high. Shares of Coca-Cola Bottling Co. Consolidated, the second-largest U.S. bottler of Coca-Cola products, closed up 11/16 at $37-5/8. 

Document lba0000020010821dwc80acdf
?
 

 Toronto stocks shine despite  profit - warning  clouds. 

288 words
8 December 2000
21:27
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 TORONTO, Dec 8 (Reuters) - Toronto stocks catapulted in late afternoon trading on Friday as investors pumped money into blue chips and technology shares and didn't bat an eye at yet another sales growth warning, this time from U.S. giant Intel Corp. . 

 The TSE 300 composite index ended up 381.93 points, or 4.17 percent, at 9548.73, its second largest point gain ever. Trading was heavy as 192 million shares worth C$5.69 billion changed hands in the session. Advancers beat decliners 671 to 415. 

 "It is a classic indicator of a bull market when stocks don't go down even on bad news. It is a positive thing for the short term," said Elvis Picardo, an analyst with Global Securities Corp. in Vancouver. 

 Overall 13 of the 14 subindexes of the TSE 300 closed higher. The industrial products sector, which includes Nortel Networks Corp. and represents more than 40 percent of the index, ended a whopping 9.1 percent higher. In that sector, Nortel, which represents 25 percent of the overall index, ended more than 11 percent higher at C$65.45. Research In Motion Ltd. was up C$7.05 at C$144.05 and JDS Uniphase Corp. was up C$8.75 at C$114. 

 Analysts said investors this week changed their focus from corporate profit warnings to an indication by U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan that there may be interest rate cuts next year. Earlier this week, Greenspan said the central bank must be alert to any "excessive softening" in demand, a sign the markets saw as suggesting a Fed interest-rate cut is in the pipe. 

 ($1=$1.52 Canadian). 

Document lba0000020010821dwc80ac8x
?
 

 Economics 
 Earnings worries send Nasdaq lower again 

 News Agengies 
1,485 words
8 December 2000
The Jerusalem Post
JPST
Daily
13A
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 TEL AVIV 

 Stocks dropped yesterday, led by banks, anticipating that US shares would decline after Motorola Inc. said earnings through the end of next year won't meet estimates because of slow demand for semiconductors. 

 The TA-25 Index lost 0.9 percent to 498.53 after rising 1.1% Wednesday. Eighteen stocks dropped, four rose and three were unchanged. 

 Bank Hapoalim Ltd. dropped 1.4% to NIS 10.98 and Bank Leumi lost 1.2% to NIS 9.19. Shares of the nation's largest two banks fell, on concern earnings expectations didn't justify recent advances. This was their first decline since they reported higher third-quarter earnings a week ago. Hapoalim shares had risen 9% since Nov. 23 while Bank Leumi gained 9.5% in the same period. 

 Matav Cable Systems Media Ltd. lost 1.5% to 66.5 shekels. The cable television company was downgraded to "neutral" from "buy" at Nesuah Zannex Securities Ltd. because revenue prospects were damped by Prime Minister Ehud Barak's decision against granting cable companies a temporary license to offer high speed Internet access. Discount Investment Corp. dropped 1.4% to NIS 170.2. The holding company controls cable television company Tevel. 

 Metalink Ltd. lost 3.2% to 41.44. The semiconductor maker dropped 3.9% Wednesday in the US amid analyst concern chipmakers face weaker earnings, traders said. 

 Israel Corp. lost 3.2% to 687 shekels. The holding company controls Tower Semiconductor Ltd., a chipmaker that lost 2% in the US Wednesday. 

 Walla! Communications Ltd jumped 5.5% to 2.20. The Hebrew- language web site and search engine extended an 8.5% rise after agreeing Wednesday to buy closely held rival IOL Israel Online Ltd. 

 WALL STREET 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Bad earnings news plagued Wall Street again yesterday after Goldman Sachs lowered its profit forecast for Microsoft and two other high-tech firms became the latest companies to warn of disappointing results. 

 Investors, unsure of where to put their money amid the volatility, repeated what has become a pattern: They sold off technology and boosted pharmaceutical, utility and other stocks considered less risky. 

 "The market is still coming to grips with the fact the economy is slowing down as are profit expectations, especially in the tech sector," said Ronald J. Hill, an investment strategist with Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. 

 "People are being very defensive about where they put their money" 

 The Nasdaq composite index closed down 43.85, or 1.6 percent, at 2,752.65. 

 Blue chips also fell. The Dow Jones industrial average tumbled 45.89, or 0.4%, to 10,618.49, pulled lower by tech components including Microsoft. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 index slipped 7.92, or 0.6%, to 1,343.54. 

 EUROPE 

 UK stocks fell, led by Marconi Plc, Colt Telecom Group Plc and Bookham Technology Plc, after Motorola Inc. said fourth-quarter sales and earnings would be below expectations. 

 ARM Holdings Plc, Europe's biggest designer of microprocessors, slipped after Motorola said demand for semiconductors is slowing. 

 "When Motorola comes out with yet another profit warning the market is going to take a knock-down," said James Clunie, who helps manage about $1.5 billion in stocks for Murray Johnstone. 

 The UK's benchmark FT-SE 100 Index fell 41.9 to 6231.40. 

 Three shares fell for every one that rose in the FT-SE All Share Index, which fell 21.6 to 2985.47. The FT-SE Techmark 100 Index shed 93.44, or 3.35, to 2737.91. 

 Marconi, the UK's No. 1 maker of phone equipment, fell 48p, or 5.95%, to 770. Colt dropped 81p, or 5.1%, to 1499. 

 Bookham plunged 120p, or 9.2%, to 1,180. ARM shed 21p, or 3.45%, to 605, extending its one-month decline to 225. 

 Sema Group Plc slid by 4p, or 1.4%, to 279. The UK software company has fallen 68% in the last month. 

 BATM Advanced Communication Ltd. plunged 160p, or 52%, to 147.5. The maker of high-speed computer networking equipment said it will miss second-half sales forecasts. 

 HSBC Holdings Plc led banks lower after Bank of America Corp. said profits for the fourth quarter and next year will disappoint investors. 

 HSBC, which has 20% of its assets in North America, fell 18 pence, or 1.8%, to 1013. Its purchase last year of Republic New York Corp. made it the third biggest bank in New York State. Royal Bank of Scotland, which owns Citizens Financial Group, No. 2 bank in the New England region, fell 22p to 1431. 

 ASIA 

 Asian stocks fell, led by Toshiba Corp. and Omni Industries Ltd. as they tracked a decline in the Nasdaq after Apple Computer Inc. became the latest company to issue a profit warning. 

 Japan's Nikkei 225 stock average lost 1.1%, while Singapore's Straits Times Index shed 0.8%, paced by Omni, an Apple parts supplier. Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index shed 0.6%, led by China Mobile (Hong Kong) Ltd. 

 "Wednesday's interest rate story took precedence over Apple's warning, but today, markets are reacting purely to Nasdaq's weakness," said Steven Lim, a fund manager who helps oversee $287 million in investments at Daiwa SB Investments (Singapore) Ltd. 

 Lim said he's looking to buy electronics stocks such as Singapore's Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing Ltd., Datacraft Asia Ltd. and Venture Manufacturing Ltd. 

 In other markets, Korea's Kospi Index rose 1.1%, led by SK Telecom Co. and Korea Telecom Corp. as investors bet the government will next week award them new high-speed Internet access mobile phone service licenses. 

 Japan's Toshiba, the world's largest laptop computer maker, fell 1.1% to 816 yen after Apple said Tuesday it will post a loss in its fiscal first quarter ending Dec. 30. Apple also cut its 2001 sales outlook. The broad Topix index shed 0.9% to 1368.17. 

 "Another downgrade announcement by Apple reminds investors psychologically that Japanese personal computer makers will also face the same problem," said Akira Hiramine, chief investment officer at Invesco Asset Management Ltd., which manages $7.7 billion in Japanese equities. 

 CURRENCIES 

 The euro fell from an 11-week high against the dollar after failing to break through to higher levels, as traders hesitated to keep buying the European currency before release of US unemployment statistics today (Fri.). 

 Europe's 11-nation currency fell to 88.91 US cents from 89.19 in New York Wednesday, after touching its strongest since Sept. 22 at 89.71 cents. The euro was little changed at 98.44 yen from 98.41 Wednesday, after rising as high as 99.19 yen. The dollar rose to 110.60 yen, from 110.19 Wednesday. 

 The euro pared its gains as orders to sell the currency were triggered when it failed to reach the important technical levels of 89.80 cents to 90 cents, said Ben Strauss, a trader at Bank Julius Baer. 

 "People don't have the appetite to be very aggressive right now," said Eric Nickerson, head of global currency strategies at Bank of America. "Euro-dollar still has problems going through the 90-cent level." Against the dollar, the euro had advanced as much as 6.9 percent in the past nine days amid signs the US economy is slowing more quickly than Europe's, prompting investors to shift money to the euro region. 

 Recent US reports on gross domestic product, regional economic conditions and manufacturing have shown a marked slowdown in the record 10-year economic expansion, as statistics from the euro zone show improvement in retail sales and manufacturing. 

 "We've seen the euro rally predicated on the belief the US is slowing more aggressively than people had thought it would," said John McCarthy, manager of foreign exchange at ING Baring Capital Markets. 

 The Federal Reserve said Wednesday the US economy expanded at a slower pace in November. The Fed will likely refer to the so- called beige book report at its next policy-setting meeting, on Dec. 19. 

 COMMODITIES 

 METALS 

 Aluminum for delivery in three months gained as much as $21, or 1.4 percent, to $1,556 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange. The metal rose amid unconfirmed reports that Columbia Falls, a smelter in the US Pacific Northwest, announced a production cut because of high power prices in the region, traders said. 

 ENERGY 

 Brent crude oil for January settlement rose as much as 39 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $28.40 a barrel on London's International Petroleum Exchange as traders reassessed the impact of colder US weather on fuel demand, and of a halt to Iraqi supplies. On Wednesday, crude fell as much as 3.9 percent to its lowest price since July 31. 

Stocks

Document jpst000020010807dwc800dpy
?
 

Investment
Wall St sell-off dampens the Greenspan euphoria

Aaron Patrick   
417 words
8 December 2000
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
Late
4
English
Copyright 2000. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.   

NEW YORK

Wall Street surfaced from one of its biggest trading days ever with a hangover as sell-off of blue chip and technology stocks dampened the euphoria of Tuesday's Greenspan-inspired rally.

On Wednesday the Nasdaq Composite fell 3.2 per cent to 2,797, loosing roughly one-third of its gains from the previous day, whil the Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 2.1 per cent to 10,665 after rising 3.2 per cent in the previous session.

Profit warnings from two high-profile companies contributed to the falls, but commentators said investors were also "pausing for air" after the Nasdaq Stock Market's largest rally ever.

Apple Computer and Bank of America said they would miss fourth-quarter forecasts, highlighting the US economic slowdown that prompted the Federal Reserve chairman, Dr Alan Greenspan, to indicate this week that official interest rates would be cut. That announcement boosted bond prices, and the rally continued on Wednesday. The yield on 30-year US Treasury bonds fell 6 basis points to its lowest level in one and a half years, and 10-year Treasury yields fell 9 basis points. Yields fall when prices rise.

"Bonds and cash will be the favoured investment going forward because damage has been done [to confidence in stocks]" Mr Steven Bohlin, a fund manager at Thornburg Investment in Santa Fe, New Mexico, told Bloomberg.

Among stocks hit hardest were personal computer manufacturers, led by IBM, Hewlett-Packard and Dell Computer. All three had earnings estimates cut by Credit Suisse First Boston, which warned of a industry-wide softening in computer sales.

"It's just another stake in the coffin," Merrill Lynch technology analyst Mr Steve Milunovich said.

Analysts say the PC industry is suffering from its own success the high number of households in the US with computers makes further sales difficult, and many businesses upgraded for the year 2000 computer bug last year and will not buy computers for

another three years.

The effects of economic slowdown were also felt among media companies, with publisher Dow Jones warning fourth-quarter profit would be lower than forecast because of the softening advertising market.

The second-largest US newspaper company, Knight Ridder, said it would cut as much as 2 per cent of its workforce to lower costs. Shares in both companies fell, and News Corp, which owns the Fox television network, fell 2.5 per cent in US trading.

Document AFNR000020111227dwc800n8g
?
 

 BUSINESS 
 BUSINESS TODAY Series: BUSINESS TODAY  

344 words
8 December 2000
St. Petersburg Times
STPT
SOUTH PINELLAS
1E
English
 (Copyright 2000)  

 JOBLESS CLAIMS RISE: The four-week average number of workers filing new claims for jobless benefits rose to a 2 1/2-year high last week as layoffs at auto plants and steel mills hastened the cooling in economic growth. The four-week moving average of claims rose by 1,250 to 345,250 in the week that ended Dec. 2, the Labor Department reported. That is the highest since mid-July 1998. The rise in the four-week average came despite a drop in claims for the single week ended Dec. 2. Claims had fallen by 9,000 to 352,000.  

 FORECASTS SEND MARKETS DOWN: U.S. stocks fell for a second day on concern that profit growth is slowing at technology companies. Goldman, Sachs & Co. analyst Richard Sherlund cut his revenue and earnings estimates for Microsoft Corp. because of sluggish sales of personal computers. Microsoft fell $3.56 to $53.13. Also, Motorola reduced its fourth-quarter sales and earnings estimates - the second time in two months the company lowered projections for the quarter. Motorola dropped 6 cents to $17.75. The reports helped push the Nasdaq Composite Index down 43.84 to 2,752.66, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 47.02 to 10,617.36. Separately, Intel Corp., the world's biggest computer chipmaker, said fourth-quarter sales will miss its forecasts because of large cancellations by customers worldwide. Intel's warning came after the close of trading; its shares rose 56 cents to $32.31.  

 DAIMLERCHRYSLER SEEKS PRICE CUTS: DaimlerChrysler AG demanded a 15 percent price cut over the next two years from suppliers to its Chrysler division as it tries to bring the unit back to profitability. The unit lost $512-million in the third quarter and is forecast to post a loss again this quarter. DaimlerChrysler wants to cut costs at Chrysler by nearly $6-billion. Chrysler buys about $40- billion a year in parts and services, which account for about 78 percent of the unit's overhead.  

Document stpt000020010813dwc801dir
?
 

 German Stocks PM - DAX continues gains amid positive sentiment. 

477 words
8 December 2000
16:50
Futures World News
FWN
English
(c) Distributed via COMTEX News.

 Dec 08, 2000 (FWN Financial via COMTEX) - By Bert Erik ten Cate, BridgeNews 

 Frankfurt-Dec.8-German shares traded higher in early evening trade, but off the day's higher, on the back of positive sentiment related to positive U.S. employment data and Fed chairman's Alan Greenspan's remarks earlier this week, sparking hopes the Fed may cut rates. The oAX-30 opened at 6567.99 points, rose to a high of 6745.91 points and traded 1.6% higher at 6670.05 points at 5.30 GMT. 


		  *			 *			 *




The positive sentiment was only briefly interrupted Thursday afternoon when U.S. chipmaker and cell phone producer Motorola Corp. issued a profit warning and Microsoft shares fell on a round of analyst downgrades, but the good sentiment returned after positive U.S. employment data indicated that the U.S. economy is in for a soft landing.



The DAX gains were supported by the majority of shares traded in Frankfurt, with the biggest rises seen in individual stocks rather than sectors. Europe's largest software maker SAP AG rose 7.4% to 182.60 euros on early Nasdaq gains.



Another strong gainer was Bayer AG, which put on 3.7% to 55.60 euros on speculation Switzerland's Roche is mulling a takeover bid on the company. Bayer denied any such suggestion and said it hired Deutsche Bank and Credit Suisse First Boston to increase shareholder value.



Fellow chemical stock Degussa Huels AG put on 8.4% to 36.15 euros after investment bank Lehman Brothers raised its rating on the stock to "outperform" from "neutral".



Carmaker Volkswagen AG rose 3.10% to 58.20 euros, still gaining after yesterday's news that it will be included in the Euro Stoxx 50 index.



Fellow carmaker DaimlerChrysler AG rose 1.8% to 48.31 euros, shrugging off further estimate reductions from industry analysts. UBS Warburg downgraded fourth-quarter earnings estimates to 8 cents per share from 69 cents. While the 2001 dividend may be safe, UBS Warburg said it was concerned that the automaker may be forced to cut its dividend in 2002 as a result of deteriorating balance sheets.



Save re-insurer Munich Re AG, off 0.1% to 344.50 euros, financials traded between 1.4%-2.9% higher.



In the red, steel maker ThyssenKrupp AG gave up 1.2% to 17.0 euros after posting disappointing results. The share dropped 1.6% to 16.93 euros. Utility E.ON AG fell 1.2% to 62.35 euros following a round of analyst downgrades after it yesterday posted disappointing operating results. Fellow utility RWE AG rose 0.9% to 47.76 euros.



Germany's Neuer Markt index for small, high-growth companies traded 5.2% higher at 3265.72 points at 5.30 GMT.



(C) Copyright 2000 FWN



.


Document fwn0000020010808dwc80032r

Search Summary

 Text	((“profit*” same “warning*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”))) OR ((“profit*” same “fall*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“headwind” same “profit*”) (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”)))
 Date	12/01/2000 to 12/31/2000
 Source	All Sources
 Author	All Authors
 Company	All Companies
 Subject	Corporate/Industrial News
 Industry	All Industries
 Region	United States
 Language	English
 Results Found	261
 Timestamp	27 March 2018 10:30








•	  How Will Slowing PC Sales Affect ATI, Nvidia? >ATYT NVDA 
•	  TIP SHEET:USAA's Klaffke Stays With Diversity, Dividends 
•	  Motorola's lowers Q4 earnings. 
•	 Nasdaq's dive gives the TMTs new grief
•	  U.S. stocks seen lower at open on Motorola warning. 
•	  U.S. stocks fall again, tripped by Motorola warning. 
•	  UPDATE 2-Mexico stocks dip slightly - media, banks up. 
•	  U.S. stocks sag as Wall Street frets slower tech growth. 
•	  UPDATE 1-Ciena beats earnings forecasts, boosts outlook. 
•	 U.S. tech stocks hit by Motorola  profit warning .
•	  UPDATE 1-Toronto stocks, techs lower on Motorola warning. 
•	  UPDATE 1-Ciena beats earnings forecasts, boosts outlook. 
•	  UPDATE 1-National Semi 2nd qtr profit tops forecasts. 
•	  Mexico stocks seen opening lower with Nasdaq. 
•	  Motorola warning to drag down Toronto stocks at open. 
•	  Nasdaqs Dive Gives British Technology, Media Companies New Grief 
•	 Markets BofA's  Profit Warning  Triggers Wall St. Sell-Off Earnings: Bank's announcement is part of what is shaping up to be the worst quarter in five years for corporate downgrades.
•	 Companies: Visteon Drops 24% On  Profit Warning  For Fourth Quarter --- Auto-Parts Maker Cites Production Cuts at Ford
•	  National Semi Posts 52% Rise in Net, But Warns of 3rd-Quarter Slowdown 
•	  MARKET TALK: How Much Lower Can Intel Go? 
•	  MARKET TALK: Friday Session Could Be A Doozy 
•	  MARKET TALK: Intel Halted; Has Been Speculation Of 4Q Miss 
•	  MARKET TALK: Investors Shy From Tech, But Like Staples 
•	  Options Report: Traders Hold Back In Uncertain Market 
•	  MARKET TALK: Picture This - Lower Estimates On Imagers 
•	 Motorola 4Q Hurt By Mfg Cost  Cut  Delays,Chip Mkt Factors
•	  WSJ.COM WRAP: Motorola Lowers Sales, Profit Guidance 
•	  YYY 
•	  ADR REPORT-Foreign shares sag under weight of U.S. market. 
•	  U.S. shares edge down in Europe, Apple weighs. 
•	  Apple warns of slow sales 
•	  Stocks Tumble as Profit Warnings Continue to Trouble Investors 
•	  Nasdaq Loss Widens; Bank Of Amer Credit Concerns Cited 
•	  Visteon Profit Woes Seen Resulting In Layoffs, Closures 
•	  N.Y. Stocks Fail Again To Follow Through On Rally 
•	  Visteon Down 27% On Goldman's Lower Estimate, Downgrade  
•	 WSJ.COM WRAP: Dow Jones Issues  Profit Warning  >DJ NYT
•	  MARKET TALK: Nardelli Getting Nice Street Reception 
•	  MARKET TALK: Apple Holders May Not Be In Laughing Mood 
•	  UPDATE 1-3Com says Q2 sales, net to be lower than forecasts. 
•	  UPDATE 2-Apple warns of disappointing sales, loss. 
•	  UPDATE 1-Apple warns of disappointing sales, loss. 
•	 Disappointing Sales Drop 3Com Shares 25 Percent
•	 3Com reels after  profit warning
•	  Apple Warns 1st-Quarter Sales Will Fall Well Short of Expectations 
•	  Ford Says It Will Be Fit Enough To Weather Sales Drop-Off in 2001 
•	  Stocks Pay Price for Firms' Excessive Optimism --- More Profit Reversals Could Undermine The Market Further   
•	 U.S. Auto Sales Dropped 3.4% in November --- Ford Issues  Profit Warning ; It and DaimlerChrysler to  Cut  Output
•	 Paint Maker Sherwin-Williams Issues Full-Year  Profit Warning
•	 Raytheon's Slide Halts, But Analysts Are Still  Cautious
•	  Scholastic Exec., Others Settle SEC Insider Trading Case 
•	  Hot Stocks To Watch: XRX MOT INTC XLNX 
•	  UPDATE 1-Kirch to acquire minority stake in EM.TV. 
•	 Batten Down The Hatches, Investors Warned
•	 Mortice Kern chairman cautiously optimistic  
•	  TECH WEEK IN REVIEW:Gateway Warning May Mean Cold Holiday 
•	  Nightly Business Report 
•	  Despairing tech investors embrace language of doom. 
•	 Tech Stocks Plunge; Nervous investors back off amid signs that nation's economy is cooling off
•	 Ford Issues  Profit Warning ; Big Three Auto Makers Post November Sales Declines
•	  N.Y. Stocks Start Better; Hope Fades Facing Profit Fears ?
 

 How Will Slowing PC Sales Affect ATI, Nvidia? >ATYT NVDA 

 By Stuart Weinberg 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
1,166 words
8 December 2000
20:21
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 TORONTO -(Dow Jones)- As it becomes apparent that the rumors of a slowdown in personal-computer sales were on target, analysts have been quick to update their outlook for graphics-chip suppliers ATI Technologies Corp. (ATYT) and Nvidia Corp. (NVDA). 

 On Tuesday, Prudential Securities cut its rating on Nvidia to accumulate from strong buy. "We downgraded the stock because of reduced (revenue) visibility for the next two quarters," Prudential Securities analyst Tristan Gerra told Dow Jones. "It would be hard to believe that the company won't be impacted by what's going on in the PC market right now." 

 That said, Nvidia remains the top 3D graphics-chip provider, Gerra said. The company is fundamentally sound and its outlook, particularly in new markets such as game consoles and workstations, remains strong, he said. 

 Prudential already had an accumulate rating on ATI, having made the reduction in May after ATI released worse-than-expected third-quarter results. The lingering effects of those results and the slowdown in personal-computer sales could cause ATI to miss its first-quarter numbers, Gerra said, adding that ATI's recently introduced high-end Radeon chip has been well-received, but that it always takes time for new products to gain traction. 


   IDC Stats Show Greater Impact On Nvidia Than ATI



John Safrance, analyst at First Associates, said recently released
statistics from International Data Corp. indicate the slowdown in PC
sales is likely to hit Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) harder than ATI.



Safrance said IDC lowered its forecast for fourth-quarter year-on-year
growth of PC sales to the consumer market to 10% from 20%. ATI is less
exposed to the consumer PC market than Nvidia, he said, adding that the
recent profit warnings from Intel Corp. (INTL), Apple Computer Inc.
(AAPL) and Gateway Inc. (GTW) give credence to the IDC forecast.



IDC is also projecting fourth-quarter year-on-year sales growth of 20%
in PC sales to the corporate market, and 32% in notebook sales, Safrance
said. ATI had a 57% share of the notebook market as of Aug. 31, he said.



"So, net net, if you you want to have a dollar in the graphics
industry, you're better off with ATI currently," Safrance said.



Not surprisingly, Michael Hara, Nvidia's vice-president of invester
relations, disagrees. Hara agreed that Nvidia's business was indeed
about 100% consumer driven 18 months ago. Since then, Nvidia has design
wins with the top four or five suppliers of commercial desktops in the
world, he said.



"Today, (Nvidia's) business is much more balanced," Hara said.
"(Nvidia) has products that serve professional workstation users,
commercial desktop users, as well as consumers. So, the fluctuations in
the consumer market, they absolutely do affect (Nvidia). But if (Nvidia)
were 100% consumer, it would affect (the company) more."



Because Nvidia ships its products into "multiple segments," it doesn't
provide a percentage breakdown of its corporate and consumer sales, Hara
said.



However, Robert Burleson, associate research analyst at Thomas Weisel
Partners, said revenue from Nvidia's TNT2 chip, which targets low-end
PCs and accounts for about 78% of the company's overall revenues, is
split evenly between the consumer and corporate PC markets. The
remaining 22% of Nvidia's revenue comes from sales of its GeForce2
high-end desktop chip, Burleson said, and that is all from the consumer
market. That means Nvidia's revenue is about 60% consumer and 40%
corporate.



Still, even though Nvidia generates a large portion of sales from the
consumer PC market, Burleson said this doesn't necessarily translate
into a slowdown in Nvidia's sales growth. "At the end of the day,
(Nvidia) is really growing mainly by growing its market share," Burleson
said. "So they still have a lot of growth opportunities just by getting
more design wins in the desktop segment."



   ATI Gets Two-Thirds Of Sales From Graphics Boards



ATI vice-president of corporate development Henry Quan said ATI
derives about 60% of its revenue from corporate sales and about 40% from
consumer sales.



Quan said the slowdown in PC sales will likely lead to a reduction in
discretionary buying in the consumer market as well as reduced spending
by high-end business users. "I think we won't know the whole impact (of
the slowdown in PC sales) until we see all the numbers together," he
said, adding that the slowdown will hit ATI more severely if it cuts
into its sales of graphics boards, which account for about two-thirds of
overall sales.



Jonathan Hykawy, analyst at Canaccord Capital, maintained his strong
buy rating on ATI. He told Dow Jones that the slowdown in PC sales won't
necessarily translate into slow sales for ATI because ATI has
traditionally had strong relationships with systems integrators,
companies that build unbranded computers for retail distribution.



Because systems integrators - such as Computer Stop of Seattle and
Supercom of Toronto - build low-end computers, they want low-cost
graphics, Hykawy said. ATI has typically been the supplier of choice
because it has well-established distribution channels and the advantage
of Canadian-based operations, he said. "Canadian costs are a lot lower
than what you'd pay in Silicon Valley," Hykawy said.



Silicon Valley, coincidentally, is where Nvidia is based. Nvidia's
Hara acknowledged ATI's edge in the systems-integrator market, but added
that ATI has been in that market a lot longer.



"That business is about distribution channels," Hara said. "It's about
product familiarity. I can tell you, however, that we're making
tremendous gains in that space. I believe...the last time we checked our
market share in the solutions-provider market, we were probably around
20-some-percent."



ATI derives about 35%-40% of its revenues from systems integrators,
ATI's Quan said.



Hykawy is forecasting net of 4 to 5 cents a share in the first quarter
for ATI on revenues of $365 million. Hykawy's estimates came before
Intel's profit warning late Thursday. He wasn't available for comment
Friday.



Early Friday, Sprott Securities analyst Susan Streeter cut her rating
on ATI to reduce from market perform.



HSBC Securities analyst Valentine Lee maintained his buy rating and
$12.50 target Friday, noting that ATI is benefiting from consolidation
in the graphics industry and new design wins.



However, the recent profit warnings from PC makers, a lack of
compelling new PC platforms, the weaker euro and slower consumer
spending prompted Lee to cut his revenue and net estimates for ATI in
the first quarter. Lee is now calling for net of 4 to 5 cents a share on
revenue of $365 million-$380 million, down from his previous forecasts
of 6 cents and $395 million-$400 million, respectively.
   Company Web sites: http://www.ati.com and http://www.nvidia.com
   Stuart Weinberg, Dow Jones Newswires; 416-306-2026;
   stuart.weinberg@dowjones.com


Document dj00000020010805dwc804lkj
?
 

 TIP SHEET:USAA's Klaffke Stays With Diversity, Dividends 

 By Bob Sechler 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
854 words
8 December 2000
20:00
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 AUSTIN,Texas -(Dow Jones)- Stephan Klaffke, manager of USAA's Income Stock Fund, can be forgiven for feeling somewhat vindicated. 

 He's spent the past 18 months watching investors salivate over zero-profit tech stocks while the asset base of his large-cap value fund has shrunk to about $1.85 billion from $2 billion on Jan. 1. 

 "Everyone was just plowing money into technology," Klaffke said. "Everything was, 'Never look at income again. It's a new paradigm. Technology stocks are immune to the business cycle.' I think we've finally seen that's not necessarily the case." 

 Klaffke said his fund's asset erosion has stemmed and he's beginning to see new inflows of cash from investors. But he isn't gloating. 

 "When you've been down yourself, you tend to always say it can happen to everyone," he said. 

 USAA income stock fund has returned a steady, if unspectacular, 5.81% year-to-date as of Wednesday's close. That's better than the large-cap value category, which has returned 3% year-to-date, according to SmartMoney.com, and it's much better than the performances of the Dow Jones Industrial Average and the Nasdaq Composite Index, off 7.2% and 31.3% year-to-date, respectively. 

 If anything, Klaffke said the market downturn over the past six months has simply served as a hard lesson for investors about the value of maintaining diverse portfolios comprised of sound, money-making companies. 

 Klaffke tries to keep his fund weighted in all sectors, even technology. In particular, however, he looks for stocks paying above-average and growing dividends and that appear to be good values. 

 "What I prefer to do is find the sectors that are just getting hit with indiscriminate selling, and then pick the quality names and go with those," he said. 

 Klaffke said an increasing dividend rate on a year-over-year basis generally is a sign of a healthy business. In addition, he said, a dividend can serve as a base of support for a stock in a falling market. 

 At the moment, he sees potentially good buys in several sectors, including banking, energy and some telecommunications. 

 Bank Of America Corp. (BAC) and Bank One Corp. (ONE) are among his picks in the banking sector, which has been severely beaten up over the past year because of rising interest rates and fears about eroding credit quality. 

 Although Bank One has cut its dividend rate, Klaffke said he thinks the move was the result of a restructuring more than anything else. 

 "What we're looking at is what's going to happen down the road," he said. "If the Fed cuts (interest) rates, the environment for banks could change drastically and we could have a real rally here." 

 Shares of Bank of America closed Wednesday at $38 after the firm issued a profit warning, off 24% year-to-date, while Bank One shares closed at $34.38, up 7% for the year. 

 In the energy sector, Klaffke likes large multi-nationals such as Texaco Inc. (TX) and BP Amoco PLC (BP). Texaco, which closed Wednesday at $57.88, is up about 7% year-to-date, while BP Amoco is off 23% after closing Wednesday at $45.88. 

 Klaffke said neither stock has benefited significantly from the sharp rise in oil prices over the past year, which should equate to increased profits. 

 In addition, he said Texaco "is going to be a powerhouse" once its merger with Chevron Corp. (CHV) is complete. He also remains positive on BP Amoco's future even though some investors have shied away from it as it wrestles with integration issues from acquisitions. 

 As for technology, Klaffke is high on telecommunications stocks such as Verizon Communications (VZ) and SBC Communications Inc. (SBC). Both firms have good dividend yields and provide investors exposure to the technology sector without drastic volatility, he said. 

 Verizon is down 4.6% year-to-date based on Wednesday's close at $58.75, while SBC, at $54.25 a share, is up about 11% year-to-date. 

 Other stocks about which Klaffke is optimistic at the moment include chemical firms such as Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) and Lyondell Chemical Co. (LYO). 

 Dow Chemical, closing Wednesday at $35 a share, is off about 21% for the year, while Lyondell is up about 8% at $13.81. 

 Klaffke said both are cyclical issues that already have the possibility of a recession priced into their shares, meaning their upsides could be substantial. 

 In general, Klaffke said the Income Stock Fund is for investors with time horizons of at least three to five years, which provides the breathing room for his picks to recover from short-term valuation issues. 

 "We're looking at what their long-term strategy is," Klaffke said. "Does it make sense? If it does, then we're going to let them execute that strategy and we're not worried about the next quarter's numbers." 

 -By Bob Sechler, Dow Jones Newswires; 512-236-9637 

Document dj00000020010805dwc804lj5
?
 

 Motorola's lowers Q4 earnings. 

195 words
8 December 2000
Channelnewsasia
CNEWAS
English
(c) 2000 MediaCorp News Pte Ltd. All Rights Reserved

 For the second time Motorola is cutting its fourth quarter earnings in as many months. 

 The world's number two mobile phone maker said it will earn US$0.15 a share in the fourth quarter, down from the US$0.27 figure given in October. 

 That projection had already been cut by US$0.10 cents a share. 

 Revenue is now expected at US$10 billion, down from October's estimate by US$500 million. 

 Motorola said a slowing market for semi-conductors along with problems in its handset product mix are once again causing more damage to the company's earnings, and that damage is more than had been anticipated. 

 The company is still paying dues for missing the market for low-end handsets. 

 Betting on more expensive mobile phones with web surfing capabilities and other luxuries proved ill-fated for the company which lost customers to more customer focused Nokia Corp. of Finland. 

 Nokia has of late eaten into the market share of key mobile phone manufacturers. 

 Loss of market share to Nokia was also seen as the force behind Ericsson's profit warning issued in October. 

Document cnewas0020010805dwc8002ex
?
 

Nasdaq's dive gives the TMTs new grief

MICHAEL CLARK   
629 words
7 December 2000
London Evening Standard
NS
C
48
English
(c) 2000 Evening Standard Limited   

TECHNOLOGY, media and telecoms companies were back on the bear tack today after a profit warning from BATM Advanced Communications and another heavy fall for the hi-tech Nasdaq market in the US.

Bookham Technology, which yesterday lost its place as a constituent of the top 100 companies, fell 95p to 1205p after a presentation last night at US securities broker Lehman Brothers. There were also losses for Marconi, down 52p at 776p, Pearson, 37p at 1608p, and ARM Holdings, 23p at 603p. Sage Group, which has retained its place in the top 100, lost 15p to 419p on reports that broker HSBC Securities has downgraded its stance on the shares from "add" to "reduce" following recent results, with rival UBS Warburg also reckoned to have cut its price target for the software group.

The techMARK 100 index reversed much of yesterday's gains with a fall of 67.17 to 2764.18 reflecting the drop in sentiment on technology issues in the US following a profits warning from Apple Computer.

Lastminute.com, which has lost its place in the hi-tech index because of the collapse in its share price since it floated in March, shaded a further 1p to 811/2p. Elsewhere among the second-liners, Fibrenet shed 40p to 875p and Infobank lost 221/2p to 3621/2p.

Share prices generally were on the slide again on the back of the 234-point drop suffered by the Dow overnight in New York. In thin, scrappy, trading the FTSE 100 index fell 50.9 to 6222.4. Many investors chose to remain on the sidelines ahead of today's decision by the Bank of England monetary policy committee to peg rates at 6%.

Abbey National lost 3p to 1120p after declining an offer of merger talks with rival Lloyds TSB, 211/2p dearer at 6451/2p. It seems Lloyds' offer of a mixture of cash and shares worth 1300p was not enough. City speculators reckon Lloyds may now turn aggressive and go ahead with a bid for the mortgage lender which is now valued at Pounds 16 billion.

Meanwhile, Abbey remains in merger talks with Bank of Scotland, up 2p at 692p.

ICI retreated 123/4p to 5071/4p as Commerzbank downgraded its rating from "accumulate" to "hold" after the recent strong performance of the shares. It has raised fair value from 450p to 530p.

Britain's biggest internet provider Freeserve firmed 1p to 134p. That compares with the 157p French internet provider Wanadoo is offering as part of an all-share deal.

Bid talks with the German ISP T-Online broke down earlier this year. Word is that the Germans were prepared to offer up to 600p a share. Dixons, with 80% of Freeserve, fell 9p to 226p.

It was the first day of dealings in London and Dublin for Power Leisure after a joint placing of shares by ING Barings and Goodbody Stockbrokers at 147p. The group, which operates Ireland's biggest chain of bookmakers, Paddy Power, saw its price reach a peak of 1791/2p before settling at 170p. Also making their debuts were Finelot Group, trading at 361/2p after a placing on AIM at 35p, and Hidefield, changing hands at 111/2p after floating at 10p.

AIM-listed Tenon Group returned from suspension 10p higher at 1681/2p. The group is buying two businesses for a total of Pounds 27.6 million. Regalian Properties hardened 21/2p to 403/4p after saying it had received a bid approach.

lPrices and indices in this section are supplied from various sources and calculated at different times and may not always match those listed in the tables. Ofex prices relate to the previous close. 

945078442

Document NS00000020060917dwc7003v3
?
 

 U.S. stocks seen lower at open on Motorola warning. 

 By Haitham Haddadin 
776 words
7 December 2000
13:25
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 7 (Reuters) - U.S. tech stocks are seen opening lower on Thursday following more corporate warnings about quarterly results, including one from mobile phone giant Motorola Inc. 

 Index futures sank deeper in the red following the profit warning from Motorola. More than an hour from the open, Nasdaq 100 index futures for December were trading 35 points lower at 2,690, pointing to decline of more than 1 percent. December S&P 500 index futures were off 7.5 points at 1,346.50. 

 "Having another tech bellwether guide lower is not something that is going to buoy the market or help us sustain a rally," said Brian Piskorowski of Prudential Securities, noting Motorola's warning follows a string of others that also included electronic business systems maker Scient Corp.. 

 U.S. stocks fell on Wednesday, giving back a chunk of Tuesday's blockbuster rally, after computer giant Apple Computer Inc. warned soft holiday sales would put it in the red for the quarter. 

 Apple's woes echoed a chorus of gloomy sales and earnings forecasts from personal computer makers, heard most recently from the likes of No. 4 U.S. PC maker Gateway Inc.. These warnings have repeatedly pummeled the high-tech sector. 

 Motorola shares fell in pre-opening trade on Thursday to $15 on the Instinet electronic broker system, down from a Wednesday close at $17-13/16. 

 Motorola said its fourth-quarter sales and earnings would miss Wall Street forecasts because of shortfalls in its semiconductor and personal communications segments. The Schaumberg, Ill.-based company said sales for the fourth quarter are now expected to be $10 billion and earnings per share 15 cents. 

 Guidance given in October called for sales of $10.5 billion and earnings per share of 27 cents, the company said. Wall Street analysts on average had been expecting the company to report 27 cents per share in the fourth quarter, according to research firm First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Also negatively impacting sentiment on some tech issues were negative comments early Thursday on leading computer maker Hewlett-Packard from Wall Street house Bear Stearns, which said it cut the company's fiscal year 2001 earnings estimate and cut its investment rating due to concerns about the personal computer industry and management's guidance. 

 A string of negative "pre-announcements" issued overnight included one from beleaguered toy maker Hasbro Inc. which said it will sell two interactive software units and cut its cash dividend, adding it expects a poor fourth quarter to keep earnings below estimates. Hasbro closed at $11-9/16. 

 Scient lowered earnings and revenue forecasts for its fiscal third quarter, as the company announced a restructuring that included the elimination of about 460 jobs. Scient closed at $4-1/2. 

 Tribune Co., publisher of the Chicago Tribune and the Los Angeles Times newspapers, said it expects fourth quarter and 2000 earnings to be below analysts' view. Tribune closed at $37-15/16 Wednesday before making the announcement. 

 "We had Hasbro, Scient and Tribune, that's more shoes that are dropping," said Prudential's Piskorowski. 

 In overseas markets, Tokyo's benchmark Nikkei 225 average closed off 169 points, or 1.14 percent at 14,720.36 in line with Nasdaq's weakness on Wednesday. Meanwhile, European bourses fell more than 1 percent with the tech issues losing ground amid the slide in Nasdaq futures. 

 Wall Street eyes some economic data on Thursday, including jobless claims figures from the Labor Departmen for the week ended Dec. 2, due out at 8.30 a.m. EST (1330 GMT). Economists surveyed by Reuters see 342,000 new jobless claims in the week ending Dec. 2 compared to 358,000 reported for the prior week. Also on the table is consumer credit numbers for October. 

 Those figures will be a prelude to a crucial jobs report due out Friday, which is expected to show the unemployment rate rising from its 30-year low of 3.9 percent to 4.0 percent, according to a Reuters poll. 

 The Nasdaq Composite Index retreated 92.83 points, or 3.21 percent, at 2,796.97 on Wednesday. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 235.48 points, or 2.16 percent, at 10,663.24, and the broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index tumbled 25.08 points, or 1.82 percent, to 1,351.46. 

 The market's rally on Tuesday followed comments from Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan, who hinted that the Fed may cushion the blow of a slowing U.S. economy with interest-rate cuts. 

Document lba0000020010821dwc70atb8
?
 

 U.S. stocks fall again, tripped by Motorola warning. 

 By Elizabeth Lazarowitz 
985 words
7 December 2000
23:22
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 7 (Reuters) - Technology stocks slumped for a second day in a row on Thursday after a warning of soft sales and earnings from mobile phone giant Motorola Inc. reawakened fears about a high-tech profit squeeze. 

 Motorola's announcement added fuel to the fire sparked by computer giant Apple Computer Inc., which said on Tuesday that soft holiday sales would create a loss for the quarter, echoing gloomy sentiment from the likes of personal computer maker Gateway Inc. 

 "It's a continuation of earnings warnings and that probably could go on into the end of the year, with a lot of fourth-quarter announcements coming," said John Bartlett, senior portfolio manager at Commerce Bank in St. Louis, which manages $10 billion in assets. 

 Prospects for soft computer sales also plagued Microsoft Corp., which makes the software that powers many PCs, after an influential Goldman Sachs analyst cut his 2001 earnings view on the software titan by 1.5 percent, citing droopy retail PC demand. 

 Intel Corp., the top computer chip maker, after the closing bell also warned its quarterly revenues would be below expectations because of slowing demand. 

 Thursday's market jitters cut a bit further into Tuesday's stellar rally, when the tech-heavy Nasdaq market chalked up its biggest gain in its 29-year history after the U.S. central bank chief raised expectations for a near-term interest-rate cut. 

 The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index ended down 43.84 points, or 1.57 percent, at 2,752.66, after racing up more than 10 percent during Tuesday's "Greenspan rally." 

 Blue-chip stocks also sagged, weighed down by its high-tech and basic materials components. The 30-company Dow Jones industrial average finished off 47.02 points, or 0.44 percent, at 10,617.36. 

 The Standard & Poor's 500 Index, a broader measure of the market, fell 7.91 points, or 0.59 percent, to 1,343.55. 

 Microsoft, one of the 30 stocks that make up the Dow and the most active stock traded on Nasdaq, fell $3-9/16, or 6.28 percent, to $53-1/8. 

 Lehman Brothers also cut its estimates for Microsoft's 2001 results, blaming a worldwide slowdown in spending on information technology. 

 Intel, another Dow component and the second most-active stock on Nasdaq, added 9/16 to close at $32-5/16 on Nasdaq. In after-hours trading, the stock first fell as low as $30 but then rose sligthly to $32-1/2. Most technology stocks initially fell and then rose slightly after the bell. 

 "Everyone already knew this was coming," said a New York-based trader in Nasdaq shares. "Everybody knew PC demand was down and that would hurt revenues. Now they know how bad it is and can move on." 

 On Thursday, investors also began gearing up for more news on the economic front, with the U.S. government set to release the key monthly employment report on Friday. 

 Traders will be scanning the data for clues that the economy is slowing enough to prompt the Federal Reserve to reduce interest rates in the near future. 

 Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan on Tuesday sent stocks into orbit after he said the economy had lost steam and the central bank had to be alert to "excessive softening" in spending. 

 But on Thursday, the market was pulled lower as tech stocks took a hit, like Dow components International Business Machines Corp., which fell $1-3/8 to $95-3/8, and Hewlett-Packard Co., which slipped 3/4 to $31-1/4. 

 Motorola, the world's No. 2 mobile phone maker, said it would miss fourth-quarter and 2001 sales and earnings forecasts because of slowing demand in the semiconductor market and its own wireless business. 

 Motorola, the most active on the New York Stock Exchange, tumbled to a 52-week low of $15-7/8, before trimming its loss to 1/16 at $17-3/4. Finnish rival Nokia Corp. fell 13/16 to $50-9/16. 

 "A lot of companies are walking away significantly from guidance that they gave only two months ago," said Franklin Morton, director of research at Chicago-based Ariel Capital Management Inc., which has $3.7 billion under management. 

 "It will be hard for the market to make any kind of sustained advance until we get all of the earnings announcements behind us," said Morton. 

 Motorola's announcement came hard on the heels of a warning from Scient Corp., whose stock fell more than 37 percent after the electronic business systems maker late Wednesday lowered its earnings and revenue forecasts. Scient fell $1-11/16 to $2-13/16. 

 Consumer electronic retailer Best Buy Co. Inc. slumped more than 20 percent to end the session down $5-7/8 at $22-15/16 after it said some planned acquisitions will hurt earnings per share for four quarters. 

 Internet media company Yahoo! Inc. was slammed again by worries about dwindling advertising sales, hitting a new 52-week low of $31-1/2. It ended the session with a loss of nearly 7 percent, off $2-9/16 at $34-15/16. 

 But the tech sector was not all gloom and doom. E-commerce firm Ariba Inc. climbed $3-1/2 to $74 after Goldman Sachs added the e-commerce firm to its "Recommended for Purchase List." 

 Among blue-chip shares, aluminum giant Alcoa Inc. dragged on the Dow with a drop of $2-1/8, or nearly 7 percent, to $29-3/16. 

 But gains in "Old Economy" stocks like consumer products company Procter & Gamble, up $1-7/16 at $73-9/16, and the world's biggest soft drink maker, Coca-Cola Co., up $1-1/2 at $62-3/8, helped keep a floor under the Dow average. 

Document lba0000020010821dwc70anad
?
 

 UPDATE 2-Mexico stocks dip slightly - media, banks up. 

     By Sam Dagher 
761 words
7 December 2000
22:46
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

     MEXICO CITY, Dec 7 (Reuters) - Mexican stocks ended almost 

 flat on Thursday in sluggish trading with shares of leading 

 media and banking stocks extending recent gains as U.S. stocks 

 fell on rekindled concerns about slowing corporate profits. 

 "The market managed to end flat on the back of strong 

 interest in media stocks like Azteca and Televisa and on some 

 rumors surrounding Banamex, but otherwise it was a very slow 

 session with little flow," said a local trader. "The market 

 really died out in the afternoon." 

 Mexico's IPC index of 35 leading stocks ended down 0.034 

 percent, or 1.99 points, at 5785.36 points after rising 0.6 

 percent to 5820.48 points earlier. 

 Volume was anemic at 55.23 million shares STATS compared 

 with volume of 71.49 million shares on Wednesday. Of 66 

 actively-traded stocks 24 rose, 28 fell and 14 were flat. 

     Average daily volume on the Mexican bolsa so far this year 

 stands at about 92 million shares. 

     The U.S. Nasdaq Composite Index ended down 1.57 percent at 

 2752.65 points after a profit warning from mobile telephone 

 giant Motorola Inc. and caution ahead of Friday's key U.S. 

 employment report for November. 

 In local market action, shares of bellwether stock 

 Telefonos de Mexico (Telmex) ended down 0.23 percent at 22.10 

 pesos per L share on volume of 21 million shares. Telmex's New 

 York-listed American Depositary Receipts, or ADRs, were down 

 1.85 percent at $46-1/2. 

 U.S. Trade Representative Charlene Barshefsky said Thursday 

 the United States will try to resolve a dispute regarding 

 access to Mexico's $12 billion telecom market next week before 

 lodging an official complaint against Mexico with the World 

 Trade Organization. 

 Meanwhile, shares of Mexico's leading media groups managed 

 to cling to recent gains as foreign investors remained 

 interested, traders said. 

 Mexico's largest broadcaster Grupo Televisa ended up 0.83 

 percent at 24.25 pesos per CPO share after rising by 2.7 

 percent in intraday trading. Televisa is up 12.16 percent since 

 its close on Nov. 30. Its ADRs in New York rose 1.23 percent to 

 $51-5/8. 

 Traders said the market shrugged off the recent decision by 

 Mexico's anti-monopoly watchdog to block Televisa's planned 

 acquisition of Radio Acir. 

 "The decision is more of a strategic setback for Televisa 

 given the company's goal of having diverse distribution 

 platforms for its content," said Rene Pimentel, Latin America 

 media analyst at Deutsche Bank. 

 "It has negligible financial impact on the company as radio 

 operations will account for about 2 percent of the company's 

 top-line next year," said the Deutsche analyst. 

 The shares of Televisa rival TV Azteca ended up 2.57 

 percent at 6.38 pesos per share. Azteca is up 13.52 percent 

 since Nov. 30. Azteca's ADRs were up 1.76 percent to 

 $10-13/16. 

 "There is a market buzz around Azteca ahead of its planned 

 Unefon IPO. Investors think the stock is cheap and does not 

 reflect the company's full value," said a local trader. 

 Mexican wireless provider Unefon, half-owned by TV Azteca 

 and Mexico's Saba family, plans to sell a 7 percent stake 

 through an initial public offering (IPO) in the local market, 

 which is expected to raise $95 to $122 million. 

 In other market action, shares of Mexico's fifth largest 

 financial group Grupo Financiero Banorte ended down 4.70 

 percent, or 0.62 peso, at 12.58 pesos per share after slumping 

 5.3 percent in intraday trading to 12.50 per share. 

 Local analysts said Banorte stock was pressured by the 

dilutive effect of a convertible bond issue coming due on 

 Thursday and possible rotation of funds among investors into 

 other names in the sector like Banamex. 

 The shares of Mexico's second largest bank, Grupo 

 Financiero Banamex-Accival, ended up 2.67 percent at 14.60 

 pesos per share amid renewed rumors of a possible acquisition 

 of a stake in Banamex by foreign banks like U.S. Citibank and 

 Japan's Sumitomo. 

     Banamex stock has risen by over 10 percent since its close 

 on Nov. 30 on the market rumors. 

     The shares of Mexico's largest bank, BBVA Bancomer ended 

 down 1.08 percent at 5.50 pesos per share. 

     Mexico's finance minister Francisco Gil Diaz said Wednesday 

 the government may sell its stake of about 10 percent in BBVA 

 Bancomer in 2001. 

Document lba0000020010821dwc70an5u
?
 

 U.S. stocks sag as Wall Street frets slower tech growth. 

 By Elizabeth Lazarowitz 
878 words
7 December 2000
20:27
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 7 (Reuters) - Technology stocks were limping in late afternoon trading on Thursday, after a warning of soft sales and earnings from mobile phone giant Motorola Inc. reawakened fears about a high-tech profit squeeze. 

 Motorola's warning added fuel to the fire sparked by computer giant Apple Computer Inc., which warned on Tuesday soft holiday sales would create a loss for the quarter, echoing gloomy sentiment from the likes of personal computer maker Gateway Inc.. 

 Prospects for soft computer sales also plagued Microsoft Corp., which makes the software that powers many PCs, after Goldman Sachs cut its 2001 earnings view on the software titan by 1.5 percent, citing droopy retail PC demand. 

 "Anything technology-related has been getting hit," said George Rodriguez, head of trading at investment banking firm Guzman & Co. in Jersey City, N.J. 

 "If (PC companies') sales are down, and they expect them to be down even further next year, then Microsoft will suffer as a result," Rodriguez said, explaining the market's sentiment. 

 The resulting market jitters bit further into Tuesday's stellar rally, when the tech-heavy Nasdaq market chalked up its biggest gain in its 29-year history after the U.S. central bank chief stoked expectations for a near-term interest-rate cut. 

 Investors were also gearing up for more news on the economic front, with the U.S. government set to release the key monthly employment report on Friday. 

 The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index was down 45.67 points, or 1.63 percent, at 2,750.83, slumping for the second day in a row after racing up more than 10 percent on Tuesday. 

 Microsoft lead the the Nasdaq market lower, diving $3-14/16 to $52-13/16. Lehman Brothers also cut its estimates for the company's 2001 results, blaming a worldwide slowdown in spending on information technology. 

 Blue-chip stocks also sagged, weighed down in large part by its high-tech and basic materials components. The 30-company Dow Jones industrial average was down 55.75 points, or 0.52 percent, at 10,608.63. 

 The Standard & Poor's 500 Index, a broader measure of the market, was off 7.86 points, or 0.58 percent, at 1,343.60. 

 Motorola said that its fourth-quarter and year 2001 sales and earnings would miss forecasts because of shortfalls in its semiconductor and personal communications segments. 

 "It's a continuation of earnings warnings and that probably could go on into the end of the year with a lot of fourth-quarter announcements coming," said John Bartlett, senior portfolio manager at Commerce Bank in St. Louis, Mo., which manages $10 billion in assets. 

 Motorola, the most active on the New York Stock Exchange, tumbled nearly 8 percent to a 52-week low of $15-7/8. By late afternoon, however, it had trimmed its loss to 13/16 at $17. Motorola's rival, Finland's Nokia Corp fell $1-3/16 to $50-3/16. 

 Internet media company Yahoo Inc. was slammed again by worries about dwindling advertising sales, hitting a new 52-week low of $31-1/2 after a Wall Street analyst at W.R. Hambrecht cut his rating on the stock and said that weakness in the online ad market could continue. 

 Yahoo was down $4-1/8 at $33-3/18. 

 Traders will be scanning the data for more clues to the extent of slowing in the formerly blockbuster pace of the U.S. economy to underscore growing expectations the Federal Reserve could lower interest rates in the near future. 

 Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan on Tuesday sent stocks sprinting higher after he said the U.S. economy had lost momentum and the central bank had to be alert to "excessive softening" in spending. 

 On Thursday, however, the market was pulled lower as tech stocks took a hit. Dow components like International Business Machines, down $2-1/2 to $94-1/4, and Hewlett-Packard, off 5/8 at $31-3/8, dragged on the blue-chip average. 

 Aluminum giant Alcoa Inc. also weighed the Dow down with a drop of $2-6/16, or more than 7 percent, to $28-15/16. International Paper Co. was down $1-3/16 at $35-3/16. 

 But gains in "Old Economy" stocks like consumer products company Procter & Gamble, up $1-3/4 at $73-7/8, and the world's biggest soft drink maker, Coca-Cola Co., up $1-13/16, helped keep a floor under the index. 

 Motorola's announcement came hard on the heels of a warning from Scient Corp., whose shares fell more than 43 percent after the electronic business systems maker late Wednesday lowered its earnings and revenue forecasts. Scient was off $1-15/16 at $2-9/16. 

 "A lot of companies are walking away significantly from guidance that they gave only two months ago," said Franklin Morton, director of research at Chicago-based Arial Capital Management, which has $3.7 billion under management. 

 "It will be hard for the market to make any kind of sustained advance until we get all of the earnings announcements behind us," said Morton. 

Document lba0000020010821dwc70am1r
?
 

 UPDATE 1-Ciena beats earnings forecasts, boosts outlook. 

 By Ian Simpson 
677 words
7 December 2000
18:30
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 7 (Reuters) - Telecommunications equipment maker Ciena Corp. posted fiscal fourth-quarter results on Thursday that beat Wall Street forecasts and hiked its outlook for profits and revenues next year. 

 Ciena, which manufactures gear that packs more data into lightning-fast fiber-optic networks and makes them easier to use, said it was boosted by strong demand from phone companies looking to upgrade their systems. 

 "Clearly there are going to be winners and losers in this" as telecommunications companies switch away from older equipment, President and Chief Operating Officer Gary Smith told Reuters. 

 "We're feeling pretty good right now." 

 Ciena, based in Linthicum, Md., said pro forma net earnings rose to $41.3 million, or 14 cents a diluted share in the fourth quarter ended Oct. 31 from net income of $4.7 million, or 2 cents a diluted share, in the year-ago period. The latest results beat analysts' estimates by two cents a share. 

 The earnings exclude payroll tax on stock options and a $19 million charge for money it may not be able to collect from customer Iaxis Ltd., a troubled European network operator. 

 Analysts had forecast a profit of 12 cents a share, according to research firm First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Revenues were $287.6 million, more than double the $141.4 million posted a year ago and exceeding the First Call estimate for $277.77 million. 

 After dipping in early Nasdaq trading, Ciena's shares shot up as high as $98-5/16 after the morning earnings report. Shares then slipped back to around $93-5/8 in early afternoon, down $1-3/4 from Wednesday's closing level in a session that saw technology and telecoms shares slip after a profit warning from Motorola. 

 Ciena was among the most active on the Nasdaq. 

 Analysts were upbeat about Ciena's prospects at a time of slumping profits from other technology and telecoms companies. They said the results showed Ciena's gear, including its CoreDirector optical switch, was still in strong demand even as phone companies cut back on equipment spending. 

 "It looks as if these guys are improving and their execution remains very strong, which is what you want to hear," said Paul Silverstein, an analyst with Robertson Stephens. 

 Analysts said Wall Street had worried earlier that gross margins were flat, at 45.1 percent. Revenues also were short of investors' informal target of at least $290 million. NEW DEALS WITH DYNEGY, GENUITY, BROADWING 

 In a conference call, Chief Financial Officer Joseph Chinnici said the margins were pressed in part because Ciena had to hire outside companies to meet demand for some components. Despite Wall Street's worries, analysts said, squeezed prices from more competition were not a factor. 

 The sales figure also did not include $8 million in deferred revenue. 

 Ciena raised its outlook for 2001 revenues, saying they would go up 75 percent to 85 percent. 

 Chinnici forecast fiscal first-quarter earnings 1 cent above the First Call estimate of 14 cents a share. He also estimated that fiscal 2001 earnings would be 4 to 7 cents above the First Call forecast of 64 cents a share. 

 Ciena also said Thursday it had signed a three-year equipment deal with Dynegy Inc.'s Europe Communications unit. Dynegy announced a deal in November to acquire Iaxis, whose unpaid bills Ciena cited as the reason for its $19 million charge in the latest quarter. 

 Ciena also said Web hosting company Genuity Inc. and telecoms concern Broadwing Inc. would start using its CoreDirector gear, which switches optical signals. 

 Ciena added four new clients in the quarter, lifting its total customers to 42. The broader customer base underpinned analysts' optimism. They said Ciena's strong performance was especially welcome amid worries about the slumping technology and telecoms sector. 

 "Given how many people are missing numbers, it is certainly refreshing to see a company raising its numbers in the optical networking space," said Alex Henderson, an analyst with Salomon Smith Barney. 

Document lba0000020010821dwc70alsp
?
 

 U.S. tech stocks hit by Motorola  profit warning . 

 By Haitham Haddadin 
564 words
7 December 2000
15:39
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 7 (Reuters) - Technology stocks slumped in early morning trading on Thursday after mobile phone giant Motorola Inc. became the latest high-profile company to warn about sluggish profits. 

 "A lot of companies are walking away significantly from guidance that they gave only two months ago," said Franklin Morton, director of research at Chicago-based Arial Capital Management, which has $3.7 billion under management. 

 "It will be hard for the market to make any kind of sustained advance until we get all of the earnings announcements behind us," said Morton. "Until the first part of January we will have those every day, and that's likely to keep the market volatile and with downward bias." 

 The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index was down 32.01 points, or 1.14 percent, at 2,764.49, chipping away further at Tuesday's big rally. The index was dragged lower by some of its biggest names like software titan Microsoft Corp., Web infrastructure company Cisco Systems and Web firm Yahoo Inc.. 

 The blue chip Dow Jones industrial average was down 12.90 points, or 0.12 percent, at 10,651.48 and the broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index was off 3.41 points, or 0.25 percent, at 1,348.05. 

 Motorola said its fourth-quarter sales and earnings would miss forecasts because of shortfalls in its semiconductor and personal communications segments. The company said sales are now expected to be $10 billion, off 5 percent from previous estimates, and earnings per share would be some 44 percent below previous guidance. 

 It also said that 2001 sales and profits will be lower than guidance. Motorola fell nearly 8 percent, or $1-3/8 at $16-7/16 on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Motorola's announcement followed a string of others that included Scient Corp., whose shares fell more than 43 percent after the electronic business systems maker lowered earnings and revenue forecasts for its fiscal third quarter. Scient was off $1-15/16 at $2-9/16 on Nasdaq. 

 Stocks fell on Wednesday, giving back a chunk of Tuesday's blockbuster rally, after computer giant Apple Computer Inc. warned that soft holiday sales would put it in the red for the quarter. Apple's woes echoed a chorus of gloomy sales and earnings forecasts from personal computer makers from the likes of No. 4 U.S. PC maker Gateway Inc.. The warnings have repeatedly pummeled the high-tech sector. 

 Investor sentiment was also sapped after some Wall Street houses turned sour on computing industry leaders. 

 Goldman Sachs said it cut its 2001 earnings view on Microsoft by 1.5 percent, citing sluggish retail PC demand. That helped shave more than 7 percent off the company's share price, down $4-1/16 at $52-9/16 on Nasdaq, but also pressuring the Dow as Microsoft is a component of the 30-company index. 

 Bear Stearns, meanwhile, cut computer maker Hewlett-Packard's fiscal year 2001 profit estimate and investment rating due to concerns about the personal computer industry and management's guidance. Hewlett Packard was down 5/8 at $31-3/8 on the Big Board, also helping put the heat on the Dow index, like leading computer company International Business Machines, which shed $2 at $94-3/4. 

Document lba0000020010821dwc70alix
?
 

 UPDATE 1-Toronto stocks, techs lower on Motorola warning. 

389 words
7 December 2000
15:24
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 TORONTO, Dec 7 (Reuters) - Toronto's main stock index fell at the open on Thursday as tech heavyweights lost ground after a profit warning from U.S. mobile giant Motorola Inc. . 

 The Toronto Stock Exchange's 300 composite index lost 92.47 points to open at 9138.12 on a moderate volume of 10.6 million shares worth C$263 million. 

 Market momentum was negative, with decliners beating advancers 330 to 234. By about 10:15 a.m., the market had retraced some of its losses and was down some 50 points. 

 Tech stocks made a bleak beginning, repeating their performance during the previous session when Apple Computer Inc. warned of a first-quarter loss. 

 Bellwether Nortel Networks Corp. was off more than 2.5 percent at C$59.70. Fiber-optic components maker JDS Uniphase Corp. fell nearly 4 percent at C$99.50. Wireless company Research in Motion Ltd. was down C$3.80 at C$127.70. 

 Overall, nine of the 14 subindexes of the TSE 300 were lower. The tech-heavy industrial products sector, which comprises more than 40 percent of the TSE 300, was down more than 2.5 percent. 

 The financial services sector fell nearly 0.5 percent after analysts downgraded giant Bank of America on Thursday, one day after it warned that it would miss analyst forecasts of fourth-quarter earnings. 

 Heavyweights Toronto-Dominion Bank and Bank of Montreal both fell. 

 "I'll be a keeping a close eye on the Dec. 19 meeting of the (U.S. Federal Reserve). Alan Greenspan has already given hints that it is more ready to lean toward a neutral policy bias. We want to see if that is indeed true. We need some evidence to suggest the Fed is moving to cut interest rates," said Jeff Cheah, a strategist with Standard & Poor's MMS. 

 Cheah said Greenspan's comments could provide the catalyst needed to put the bloom back in slumping North American stock markets. 

 The oil and gas sector gained more than 1 percent at open as NYMEX natural gas opened stronger on forecasts for Arctic cold across much of North America through December. 

 Alberta Energy Co. Ltd.'s shares rose 95 Canadian cents to C$66.50 after open. 

 ($1=$1.53 Canadian). 

Document lba0000020010821dwc70alet
?
 

 UPDATE 1-Ciena beats earnings forecasts, boosts outlook. 

 By Ian Simpson 
690 words
7 December 2000
18:28
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 (Recasts, adds details, background, comments, updates stock price. Adds byline; pvs LINTHICUM, Md.) 

 NEW YORK, Dec 7 (Reuters) - Telecommunications equipment maker Ciena Corp. posted fiscal fourth-quarter results on Thursday that beat Wall Street forecasts and hiked its outlook for profits and revenues next year. 

 Ciena, which manufactures gear that packs more data into lightning-fast fiber-optic networks and makes them easier to use, said it was boosted by strong demand from phone companies looking to upgrade their systems. 

 "Clearly there are going to be winners and losers in this" as telecommunications companies switch away from older equipment, President and Chief Operating Officer Gary Smith told Reuters. 

 "We're feeling pretty good right now." 

 Ciena, based in Linthicum, Md., said pro forma net earnings rose to $41.3 million, or 14 cents a diluted share in the fourth quarter ended Oct. 31 from net income of $4.7 million, or 2 cents a diluted share, in the year-ago period. The latest results beat analysts' estimates by two cents a share. 

 The earnings exclude payroll tax on stock options and a $19 million charge for money it may not be able to collect from customer Iaxis Ltd., a troubled European network operator. 

 Analysts had forecast a profit of 12 cents a share, according to research firm First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Revenues were $287.6 million, more than double the $141.4 million posted a year ago and exceeding the First Call estimate for $277.77 million. 

 After dipping in early Nasdaq trading, Ciena's shares shot up as high as $98-5/16 after the morning earnings report. Shares then slipped back to around $93-5/8 in early afternoon, down $1-3/4 from Wednesday's closing level in a session that saw technology and telecoms shares slip after a profit warning from Motorola. 

 Ciena was among the most active on the Nasdaq. 

 Analysts were upbeat about Ciena's prospects at a time of slumping profits from other technology and telecoms companies. They said the results showed Ciena's gear, including its CoreDirector optical switch, was still in strong demand even as phone companies cut back on equipment spending. 

 "It looks as if these guys are improving and their execution remains very strong, which is what you want to hear," said Paul Silverstein, an analyst with Robertson Stephens. 

 Analysts said Wall Street had worried earlier that gross margins were flat, at 45.1 percent. Revenues also were short of investors' informal target of at least $290 million. NEW DEALS WITH DYNEGY, GENUITY, BROADWING 

 In a conference call, Chief Financial Officer Joseph Chinnici said the margins were pressed in part because Ciena had to hire outside companies to meet demand for some components. Despite Wall Street's worries, analysts said, squeezed prices from more competition were not a factor. 

 The sales figure also did not include $8 million in deferred revenue. 

 Ciena raised its outlook for 2001 revenues, saying they would go up 75 percent to 85 percent. 

 Chinnici forecast fiscal first-quarter earnings 1 cent above the First Call estimate of 14 cents a share. He also estimated that fiscal 2001 earnings would be 4 to 7 cents above the First Call forecast of 64 cents a share. 

 Ciena also said Thursday it had signed a three-year equipment deal with Dynegy Inc.'s Europe Communications unit. Dynegy announced a deal in November to acquire Iaxis, whose unpaid bills Ciena cited as the reason for its $19 million charge in the latest quarter. 

 Ciena also said Web hosting company Genuity Inc. and telecoms concern Broadwing Inc. would start using its CoreDirector gear, which switches optical signals. 

 Ciena added four new clients in the quarter, lifting its total customers to 42. The broader customer base underpinned analysts' optimism. They said Ciena's strong performance was especially welcome amid worries about the slumping technology and telecoms sector. 

 "Given how many people are missing numbers, it is certainly refreshing to see a company raising its numbers in the optical networking space," said Alex Henderson, an analyst with Salomon Smith Barney. 

Document lba0000020010821dwc70al7o
?
 

 UPDATE 1-National Semi 2nd qtr profit tops forecasts. 

407 words
7 December 2000
18:19
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 SAN FRANCISCO, Dec 7 (Reuters) - National Semiconductor Corp., a diversified maker of computer chips, on Thursday reported fiscal second-quarter profits that surpassed diminished expectations, becoming the latest company to be hit by a profit crunch sweeping the high-technology industry. 

 Santa Clara, Calif.-based National Semiconductor said it had net income in the fiscal second quarter of $106.7 million, or 56 cents a share, compared with $92.0 million, or 37 cents, a year ago. Sales rose to $595.0 million from $513.9 million. The results topped the consensus analyst forecast of 51 cents, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 "National had a respectable quarter ... despite the impact of inventory corrections by some of our customers in the mobile phone market and slower demand in the PC market," said Brian Halla, president and chief executive, in a statement. 

 The company also said that, as a result of inventory adjustments by certain customers and seasonal weakness in the personal computer market, it sees sales declining as much as 10 percent in the third quarter from the second. 

 While the PC market does indeed slow following the holiday season, National's sales caution continues a dour tone set by Gateway Inc. and Apple Computer Inc., both of which have warned in the past two weeks of slower-than-expected sales. 

 National's somewhat cautious outlook follows Motorola Inc.'s profit warning issued Thursday. The chipmaker and No. 2 mobile phone maker said results would miss forecasts because customers ordered fewer semiconductors, as well as a failure on its part to cut mobile-phone production costs fast enough. 

 Halla said that, as a result of its new expectations, sales for the current fiscal year, which ends May 27, should rise "in the range of 10 percent over last year." 

 Gross margin - or the percentage of revenue left after subtracting sales costs - is expected at 50 percent for the fiscal year. 

 Other chipmakers, including Altera Inc. and Xilinx Inc. have already warned of weaker-than-expected sales and some have also speculated that No. 1 chipmaker Intel Corp. could issue a profit warning. 

 National Semiconductor stock declined $1-1/8 to $18-7/8 in midday trading. The shares plunged by a third after the company said Oct. 23 that a slowdown in orders from mobile phone and computer makers would crimp sales in its second and third quarters. 

Document lba0000020010821dwc70akzw
?
 

 Mexico stocks seen opening lower with Nasdaq. 

406 words
7 December 2000
14:26
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 MEXICO CITY, Dec 7 (Reuters) - Mexican stocks are seen opening lower on Thursday, pressured by expected weakness on the Nasdaq amid more profit warnings and caution ahead of Friday's U.S. employment report. 

 "We are going to follow the U.S. market lower at the open, but I do not expect a major sell-off," said a local trader."We will see some consolidation profit-taking in the market today, with strong support for the IPC at 5600 points." 

 Mexico's IPC index of 35 leading stocks finished down 0.11 percent at 5887.35 points on Wednesday as the market tried throughout the session to cling to recent gains. 

 With about one hour to go before the opening bell on Wall Street the Nasdaq 100 index futures for December were trading 35 points lower at 2690, pointing to a decline of more than 1 percent. While the December S&P 500 index futures were off 7.5 points at 1346.50. 

 The Nasdaq is expected to open lower on a profit warning from mobile phone giant Motorola Inc. and caution ahead of Friday's U.S. employment report for November. 

 In local economic data, the Banco de Mexico is expected to release inflation results for November on Thursday afternoon. Deutsche Bank said in its morning report on Latin America that it expects inflation to have risen to 0.8 percent compared with 0.7 percent last month. 

 "A higher number may pressure the Central Bank to tighten monetary policy again by raising the corto," said Deutsche Bank in its report. 

 STOCKS TO WATCH 

 The market will keep an eye on bellwether stock Telefonos de Mexico (Telmex) following market rumors on Wednesday that it's initial public offering for its recently spun-off America Movil wireless unit may be delayed pending approval from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. 

 Separately, the Wall Street Journal reported on Thursday that Telmex is in talks with its U.S. rival AT&T and Worldcom to resolve an on-going dispute over access of U.S. carriers to the Mexican telecom market. 

 A possible resolution to the conflict would prevent U.S. trade officials from pressing an official complaint against Mexico before the World Trade Organization, said the paper. 

 In the currency market, Mexico's peso stood at 9.433/9.439 against the dollar in pre-open trading . 

Document lba0000020010821dwc70akt1
?
 

 Motorola warning to drag down Toronto stocks at open. 

389 words
7 December 2000
14:24
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 TORONTO, Dec 7 (Reuters) - Toronto stocks were expected to head down sharply on Thursday as cautious and jittery investors sold tech shares after a profit warning from U.S. mobile giant Motorola Inc. , traders said. 

 The Toronto Stock Exchange's 300 composite index backtracked during the previous session following Apple Computer Inc.'s warning of a first-quarter loss. The index ended 48.46 points lower at 9230.58. 

 "Just about everything points down for today. Microsoft is down about three (U.S.) dollars during pre-opening trading. It is going to be a pretty bad start," a Toronto trader told Reuters. 

 Apple's news during the previous session sparked caution and a mini-selloff in top Canadian tech stocks such as JDS Uniphase , which ended down C$3.50, or 3.27 percent, at C$103.50, and Nortel Networks Corp. , which closed off C$1.10, or 1.79 percent, at C$61.30. 

 The tech slide followed an impressive showing during Tuesday's session, when the TSE 300 raced ahead with its second biggest one-day gain ever, closing up 3.74 percent at 9279.04. 

 Traders said shares of natural gas companies would rise on Thursday as New York Mercantile Exchange January natural gas hit another all-time high in trade on Wednesday evening on forecasts of a frigid December. 

 January gas raced as high as $9.539 per million British thermal units, a jump of $1.059 from the Wednesday session settlement at $8.485 per million British thermal unit. 

 Natural gas and crude oil developer Pancanadian Petroleum Ltd.'s shares have risen more than 4 percent in the last few days on higher natural gas prices. Alberta Energy Co. Ltd.'s shares have risen nearly 7 percent since early December. 

 "I think people are going to go for oil and gas, gold and minerals and metals, the basic safe-haven stocks," the trader said. 

 Gold stocks moved higher in the previous session, reacting to a rally in spot bullion which saw its best price in eight weeks on Wednesday. 

 Traders said bank shares would edge lower after analysts downgraded giant Bank of America on Thursday, one day after it warned that it would miss analysts forecasts of fourth-quarter earnings. 

 ($1=$1.53 Canadian). 

Document lba0000020010821dwc70aks2
?
 Nasdaqs Dive Gives British Technology, Media Companies New Grief 

652 words
7 December 2000
KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Evening Standard - London
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 Technology, media and telecoms companies were back on the bear tack today after a profit warning from BATM Advanced Communications and another heavy fall for the hi-tech Nasdaq market in the US. 

 Bookham Technology, which yesterday lost its place as a constituent of the top 100 companies, fell 95 pence to 1205 pence after a presentation last night at US securities broker Lehman Brothers. There were also losses for Marconi, down 52 pence at 776 pence, Pearson, 37 pence at 1608 pence, and ARM Holdings, 23 pence at 603 pence. Sage Group, which has retained its place in the top 100, lost 15 pence to 419 pence on reports that broker HSBC Securities has downgraded its stance on the shares from "add" to "reduce" following recent results, with rival UBS Warburg also reckoned to have cut its price target for the software group. 

 The techMARK 100 index reversed much of yesterday's gains with a fall of 67.17 to 2764.18 reflecting the drop in sentiment on technology issues in the US following a profits warning from Apple Computer. 

 Lastminute.com, which has lost its place in the hi-tech index because of the collapse in its share price since it floated in March, shaded a further 1 pence to 81 1/2 pence. Elsewhere among the second-liners, Fibrenet shed 40 pence to 875 pence and Infobank lost 22 1/2 pence to 362 1/2 pence. 

 Share prices generally were on the slide again on the back of the 234-point drop suffered by the Dow overnight in New York. In thin, scrappy, trading the FTSE 100 index fell 50.9 to 6222.4. Many investors chose to remain on the sidelines ahead of today's decision by the Bank of England monetary policy committee to peg rates at 6 percent . 

 Abbey National lost 3 pence to 1120 pence after declining an offer of merger talks with rival Lloyds TSB, 21 1/2 pence dearer at 645 1/2 pence. It seems Lloyds' offer of a mixture of cash and shares worth 1300 pence was not enough. City speculators reckon Lloyds may now turn aggressive and go ahead with a bid for the mortgage lender which is now valued at UKpound 16 billion. Meanwhile, Abbey remains in merger talks with Bank of Scotland, up 2 pence at 692 pence. 

 ICI retreated 12 3/4 pence to 507 1/4 pence as Commerzbank downgraded its rating from "accumulate" to "hold" after the recent strong performance of the shares. It has raised fair value from 450 pence to 530 pence. 

 Britain's biggest internet provider Freeserve firmed 1 pence to 134 pence. That compares with the 157 pence French internet provider Wanadoo is offering as part of an all-share deal. Bid talks with the German ISP T-Online broke down earlier this year. Word is that the Germans were prepared to offer up to 600 pence a share. Dixons, with 80 percent of Freeserve, fell 9 pence to 226 pence. 

 It was the first day of dealings in London and Dublin for Power Leisure after a joint placing of shares by ING Barings and Goodbody Stockbrokers at 147 pence. The group, which operates Ireland's biggest chain of bookmakers, Paddy Power, saw its price reach a peak of 179 1/2 pence before settling at 170 pence. Also making their debuts were Finelot Group, trading at 36 1/2 pence after a placing on AIM at 35 pence, and Hidefield, changing hands at 111/2 pence after floating at 10 pence. 

 AIM-listed Tenon Group returned from suspension 10 pence higher at 168 1/2 pence. The group is buying two businesses for a total of UKpound 27.6 million. Regalian Properties hardened 2 1/2 pence to 40 3/4 pence after saying it had received a bid approach. 

Document krtbn00020010808dwc7001un
?
 

 Business; Financial Desk 
 Markets BofA's  Profit Warning  Triggers Wall St. Sell-Off Earnings: Bank's announcement is part of what is shaping up to be the worst quarter in five years for corporate downgrades. 

 THOMAS S. MULLIGAN 
TIMES STAFF WRITER
810 words
7 December 2000
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-1
English
 Copyright 2000 Los Angeles Times 

 NEW YORK -- Bank of America led another chorus of earnings warnings Wednesday, telling investors that deteriorating loan quality would slash fourth-quarter profit. 

 The news helped trigger renewed selling on Wall Street, where the Dow Jones industrials slid 234.34 points, or 2.2%, to 10,664.38, and Nasdaq also pulled back after Tuesday's surge. 

 BofA's announcement is part of what is shaping up as the worst quarter in at least five years for earnings "confessions" from corporate America. 

 The flood of bad news is mainly due to the slowdown spreading through the economy, analysts say. But it also stems in part from new Securities and Exchange Commission rules prodding public companies to be more forthcoming about releasing significant news. 

 Other recent warnings from Apple Computer, Circuit City and Altera have lifted the total number of earnings "pre-announcements" to more than 300--far above the 233 in the fourth quarter of 1999, according to earnings tracker IBES International. 

 "That's extremely high, considering we're not even in official confession season yet," said IBES strategist Joseph S. Kalinowski. 

 By January, it appears certain that this quarter will log the highest number of profit warnings since IBES began keeping track of them in 1995, Kalinowski said. 

 Charlotte, N.C.-based BofA, the nation's largest bank, first warned about fourth-quarter trouble in November. On Wednesday the company said that a "continuing deterioration" in loan quality and other problems would cut quarterly earnings to a range of 85 cents to 90 cents a share. The firm had been expected to earn $1.17 a share. 

 The news sent the stock down $3.19 to $38, the lowest since 1996. 

 BofA might be a bit ahead of its competitors in feeling the pain from bad loans, said banking analyst Matt Snowling of Friedman, Billings, Ramsey in Arlington, Va. 

 BofA, he said, concentrates on small to mid-size firms, which can be more vulnerable to an economic downturn than corporate giants. 

 Before BofA dropped its bucket of ice water on Wall Street on Wednesday morning, financial stocks were rallying, continuing to bask in the glow of Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan's strong hint Tuesday that the Fed might ease interest rates in 2001. 

 The immediate plunge in bank stocks "shows that although everyone generally benefits from lower interest rates, asset-quality concerns are on the forefront of people's minds," said analyst Joe Morford of Dain Rauscher Wessels in San Francisco. 

 Earnings warnings are coming from all industries, but Kalinowski said he expects the heaviest downgrades to be in the technology and retailing sectors. 

 In the case of retailers, consumers are "already paying more at the pump and for oil and natural gas, and they don't have the wealth effect from the stock market helping them the way it did last Christmas," he said. 

 After four quarters of 20%-plus growth, earnings of the blue-chip Standard & Poor's 500 companies will grow just 8.1% this quarter, analysts estimate. The slowdown seems precipitous, Kalinowski said, "but it's actually just a reversion to a normal trend" of profit growth in the high single digits. 

 Aside from the slowing economy, the wave of warnings probably is being fueled by the SEC's new Regulation FD (for fair disclosure). The rule requires companies to disseminate as widely as possible any information that could have a material effect on their business and stock price. 

 The rule is meant to curtail the kind of "selective disclosure" that occurs when a company provides information to only a few analysts or money managers. 

 Charles Hill, chief of research at First Call/Thomson Financial, another research firm that compiles earnings data, said it is impossible to gauge precisely how much of the flood of pre-announcements stems from the economic environment and how much from Reg FD. 

 But one thing is clear, he said: If people thought the rule would shrink the flow of information by making company officials afraid to speak out, they were wrong. Firms, if anything, are erring on the side of spouting off, issuing releases announcing in advance that they are planning an announcement, he said. 

 (BEGIN TEXT OF INFOBOX / INFOGRAPHIC) 

 Withering Growth 

 Earnings of the blue-chip Standard & Poor's 500 companies are expected to grow just 8.1% in the fourth quarter, according to analysts' current projections. 

 Year-over-year profit growth for the S&P 500 

 QI: 23.7% 

 QII: 22.7% 

 QIII: 17.5% 

 QIV: 4th quarter 2000 (estimated): +8.1% 

 Source: IBES International 

 GRAPHIC: Withering Growth, Los Angeles Times; 

Document latm000020010808dwc702fki
?
 

 Companies: Visteon Drops 24% On  Profit Warning  For Fourth Quarter --- Auto-Parts Maker Cites Production Cuts at Ford 

 By Karen Lundegaard 
Staff Reporter
260 words
7 December 2000
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
4
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 DEARBORN, Michigan -- Visteon Corp. shares plunged 24%, following the auto-parts maker's warning that its fourth-quarter earnings would be much lower than expected. 

 The company plans to take a noncash after-tax write-off of approximately $140 million (159 million euros), or $1.08 per share, in the fourth quarter for its glass business. As a result, Visteon will report a net loss for the quarter. The company said it revised estimates of the glass operation's assets following an aborted attempt to sell the business to Pilkington PLC. 

 Visteon said fourth-quarter earnings are likely to be about 35 U.S. cents a share, citing production cutbacks at Ford, by far its largest customer. Analysts had been expecting earnings of 66 U.S. cents per share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange, shares fell $3.44 to $11 at 4 p.m., reaching the lowest level since Visteon was spun off from Ford Motor Co. in June. 

 Bidding down Visteon stock, investors seemed unimpressed by the company's pledges to reduce costs by freezing hiring, eliminating most production overtime and reducing capital and discretionary spending. 

 Goldman Sachs analyst Gary Lapidus downgraded the stock to market perform, noting that the estimated decline in earnings seemed out of proportion to Ford's production cuts, suggesting bigger problems. The stock had been on the firm's recommended list. 

Document wsje000020010814dwc700ioz
?
 

 National Semi Posts 52% Rise in Net, But Warns of 3rd-Quarter Slowdown 

582 words
7 December 2000
16:11
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 SANTA CLARA, Calif., -- National Semiconductor Corp. reported fiscal second-quarter earnings that surpassed lowered expectations, but warned of a drop-off in third-quarter revenue because of a slowdown in personal-computer sales and mobile-phone orders. 

 The chip maker reported net income of $106.7 million, or 56 cents a diluted share, for the quarter ended Nov. 26, compared with net income of $70.4 million, or 37 cents a share, in the year-earlier quarter. Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial were looking for National to earn 51 cents a share in the latest quarter. 

 The company warned in October that its second- and third-quarter earnings and sales would be below forecasts because of troubles in the mobile-phone and personal-computer market. Before that warning, Wall Street had expected the company to report a profit of 77 cents a share for the second quarter. 

 Revenue, meanwhile, rose 16% to $595 million from $513.9 million. 

 "National had a respectable quarter ... despite the impact of inventory corrections by some of our customers in the mobile phone market and slower demand in the PC market," Brian L. Halla, president and chief executive officer, said in a prepared statement. 

 The company saw a 19% decrease in world-wide bookings during the second quarter, compared with the year-earlier period. It also warned that sales for the third quarter could fall up to 10% below the just-ended period because of continued inventory adjustments in the mobile-phone market, along with seasonal weakness in PC sales. 

 The company also said third-quarter gross margin may drop to 47% to 48% from the second quarter's 50%, with a resulting decline in per-share earnings. 

 Looking ahead, National anticipates a market improvement by the end of the calendar year, and expects overall sales for the current fiscal year to top last year's numbers by 10%. 

 In a post-earnings conference call, Mr. Halla said he is "fairly confident that the March quarter will see a resumption of growth." In the communications sector, Mr. Halla said backlogs already are in place in the third quarter for its PLL, or Phased Lock Loops, product for wireless customers. "If the rest of the business was as stable we would be happy campers," the CEO said. 

 According to Mr. Halla, National's largest customer in the wireless space "blew right through billing plans in the November period and almost doubled numbers for both CDMA and GSM handsets world-wide." 

 Mr. Halla noted that National is in the second phase of an industrywide correction. First it was cell phones, he said, and now distributors are dealing with excess inventory. "We saw during this quarter a sharp inventory correction in the distribution channel," Mr. Halla said. The biggest impact comes from one of the company's distributors, Electronic Manufacturing System. Even so, the CEO is confident that the wireless phone business will recover. 

 National's PC business didn't perform well in the latest quarter. Second-quarter PC orders were down and, partly based on that, Mr. Halla predicted the 10% sales decline for the third quarter from the second. 

 Chief Financial Officer Doug Macleod, meanwhile, predicted fourth-quarter gross margins will improve slightly from the 48% range forecasted for the third quarter. In fiscal 2002, gross margins could reach the 50% level. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dwc701owe
?
 

 MARKET TALK: How Much Lower Can Intel Go? 

1,313 words
7 December 2000
21:41
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



4:41 (Dow Jones) The optimist might say, "Well, at least this news
isn't coming with Nasdaq at 5000," but things are getting a little
dicey. After Intel's (INTC) news, Priceline (PCLN) says it has cut 11%
of its workforce and is postponing some initiatives and taking a charge.
With Intel crushed in recent months, how much selling is left? There
wasn't a lot left in Motorola today. (MOT). (TG)



4:27 (Dow Jones) Friday's session is going to be a wild one. Intel
(INTC) 4Q revenue is going to be well short, a big payroll number gets
released, and a Fla. court could provide a huge ruling regarding the
election. For what it's worth after this Intel news, Three-Five Systems
(TFS) also warned. (TG)



4:18 (Dow Jones) Intel (INTC) halted on Nasdaq. News pending. There
has been talk of preannouncement in recent weeks. (TG/MLP)



4:13 (Dow Jones) Despite easy comparisons and a kids' meal promotion
tied to "The Grinch" hit movie, Wendy's International (WEN) November
sales were "somewhat disappointing," says J.P. Morgan's John Ivankoe.
While company stores had a 3.4% gain, the number was below expectations.
Concerned about flattening traffic at fast-food restaurants, he would
"trade around this and recent strength of Wendy's stock and prefer to
buy at lower levels." (RLG)



4:05 (Dow Jones) Shares of Anheuser-Busch (BUD) pushed higher as
investors headed for consumer staple stocks and out of some high-flying
technology stocks. Other consumer stocks that were up include Coca-Cola
Co. (KO), Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. (CCE), PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) and
Adolph Coors Co. (RKY). (DJH)



4:03 (Dow Jones) Stocks close lower, but session was timid in front of
Friday's key data and possible election ruling. Actually, for all the
bad news Thursday, in the form of lower EPS estimates, the market held
up pretty well. Techs mostly soft, and internals not too good, but
decent employment number - i.e. more people out of work - could give us
a boost. Stocks are definitely starting to digest bad news a little
better, a good sign. We just don't need anymore of that news. DJIA off
45 to 10617, Nasdaq falls 44 at 2752, and S&P 500 loses 7 to 1344
(preliminary). (TG)



3:55 (Dow Jones) President Clinton, discussing post-White House plans
in interview with Rolling Stone magazine, says "the challenge is to
trade power and authority broadly spread for influence and impact
tightly concentrated." (JC)



3:40 (Dow Jones) Despite slight recovery in stock futures, the light
volume and trading pattern in late afternoon is not lending stability,
floor traders say. "The market is feeling kind of weak," says one.
Volume on the outright March Nasdaq and S&Ps was particularly weak.
(ZHS)



3:38 (Dow Jones) Rep. Ron Paul voices agreement with those who say a
recession is on the way, and says the Fed is "the real cause of the
business cycle," bringing booms that inevitably lead to busts. (JC)



3:28 (Dow Jones) Merrill economist Hartnett revises down U.S. growth
to 3.3% in 2001 from previous 3.7% because of weaker outlook for capital
spending, especially telecom equipment. Given weaker growth outlook,
Merrill Lynch expects Fed to cut rates 25 bp at March 2001 FOMC meeting
and ease again by 25 bp in June. (JNP)



3:25 (Dow Jones) Former Treasury spokesman Howard Schloss appointed
senior VP of communications and government relations for NASD and its
subsidiaries. (JC)



3:14 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch international economist Michael
Hartnett downgrades OECD countries 2001 global growth outlook to 2.6%
from 2.9%. U.S. downgraded to 3.3% from 3.7%. Euroland growth revised
down to 2.8% from 2.9% (JNP)



3:07 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps sink to new lows and dip into the gap area
from earlier this week, taking out support at 1362.50. Next support area
not until gap is closed, at 1355.50, which would wipe out all gains seen
on Tuesday, trader says. (DMC)



2:54 (Dow Jones) Signs of a slowdown in the U.S. economy prompted
Credit First Boston analyst Gibboney Huske to cut her 2001 earnings
estimates for the stocks in her imaging sector. She lowered her view on
Lexmark International (LXK) to $2.60 a share from $2.65; Eastman Kodak
(EK)to $5.10 from $5.40; Pitney Bowes (PBI) to $2.60 from $2.65; and
Polarois (PRD) to $1.40 from $1.60. (DDO)



2:49 (Dow Jones) Cutting its deal price to sell helped Harvard
Bioscience's (HBIO) stock. After pricing an IPO of 6.4 million shares at
$8 - well below original price talk of $11 to $13 a share - the stock is
now trading at $11, for a 37.5% gain. (RJH)



2:44 (Dow Jones) Stocks pulling back a bit, with tech names building
on earlier weakness. Given MOT, MSFT, and NSM developments, not a lot of
impetus to dive in. Short-term players may be nervous about payroll
numbers tomorrow, or possibility of more after-the-close warnings, and
shorts likely don't want to get squeezed by a Fla. court ruling that
could basically end the election fiasco. DJIA off 55 at 10609, Nasdaq
drops 71 to 2726, and S&P 500 loses 10 to 1341. (TG)



2:30 (Dow Jones) A.G. Edwards downgraded Bank of America (BAC), but
believes dividend is secure and that credit quality issues are largely
priced into the shares. Price could be limited near term, though, until
trends begin to improve. Price target now $51, a 10 multiple on next
year's earnings, a below-average valuation assumption. (TG)



2:18 (Dow Jones) Motorola's (MOT) profit warning is not a reflection
of weak global handset demand, noted Merrill Lynch analyst Michael
Ching. "The company did indicate that demand for handsets looks
relatively robust," Ching said. "They haven't changed their global
forecast for handsets for this year or next." Ching said the
announcement was a sign of a problem with execution at Motorola. He cut
his intermediate term rating from buy to accumulate, saying a lower
rating was not warranted given Motorola's low valuation. (JDB)



2:08 (Dow Jones) Health-care investors might want to take note of some
recent comments by Sen.-Elect Hillary Clinton. Clinton, who was sharply
criticized by health-care providers and HMOs in her first attempt to
reform the U.S. system, said Thursday in an Associated Press interview
that the matter is "still one of my priority concerns." There's one
important change in her position, though: This time, she tells AP, any
reform will be done "in a step-by-step way." (RJH)



2:04 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps inch to new session lows, with locals
dominating trade. Weakness in Nasdaq and DJIA also lends pressure,
traders say. "What we're seeing is a continuation of the weakness. The
fundamentals are still bad, nothing has changed," one trader says.
Another says reason not selling of harder is that shorts don't want to
get caught in pro-Bush ruling. (DMC)



1:54 (Dow Jones) Ventro Corp.'s (VNTR) stock is off 17% after the
company announced it's closing two of its online marketplaces, including
its original business. Ventro said the closing of the two unprofitable
marketplaces -- Chemdex and Promedix -- would result in the laying off
of almost half its employees. Ventro began life as Chemdex, an
electronic marketplace for chemicals and other life-sciences supplies,
and later it expanded into other vertical markets. (RS)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc704o5j
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Friday Session Could Be A Doozy 

1,240 words
7 December 2000
21:27
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



4:27 (Dow Jones) Friday's session is going to be a wild one. Intel
(INTC) 4Q revenue is going to be well short, a big payroll number gets
released, and a Fla. court could provide a huge ruling regarding the
election. For what it's worth after this Intel news, Three-Five Systems
(TFS) also warned. (TG)



4:18 (Dow Jones) Intel (INTC) halted on Nasdaq. News pending. There
has been talk of preannouncement in recent weeks. (TG/MLP)



4:13 (Dow Jones) Despite easy comparisons and a kids' meal promotion
tied to "The Grinch" hit movie, Wendy's International (WEN) November
sales were "somewhat disappointing," says J.P. Morgan's John Ivankoe.
While company stores had a 3.4% gain, the number was below expectations.
Concerned about flattening traffic at fast-food restaurants, he would
"trade around this and recent strength of Wendy's stock and prefer to
buy at lower levels." (RLG)



4:05 (Dow Jones) Shares of Anheuser-Busch (BUD) pushed higher as
investors headed for consumer staple stocks and out of some high-flying
technology stocks. Other consumer stocks that were up include Coca-Cola
Co. (KO), Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. (CCE), PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) and
Adolph Coors Co. (RKY). (DJH)



4:03 (Dow Jones) Stocks close lower, but session was timid in front of
Friday's key data and possible election ruling. Actually, for all the
bad news Thursday, in the form of lower EPS estimates, the market held
up pretty well. Techs mostly soft, and internals not too good, but
decent employment number - i.e. more people out of work - could give us
a boost. Stocks are definitely starting to digest bad news a little
better, a good sign. We just don't need anymore of that news. DJIA off
45 to 10617, Nasdaq falls 44 at 2752, and S&P 500 loses 7 to 1344
(preliminary). (TG)



3:55 (Dow Jones) President Clinton, discussing post-White House plans
in interview with Rolling Stone magazine, says "the challenge is to
trade power and authority broadly spread for influence and impact
tightly concentrated." (JC)



3:40 (Dow Jones) Despite slight recovery in stock futures, the light
volume and trading pattern in late afternoon is not lending stability,
floor traders say. "The market is feeling kind of weak," says one.
Volume on the outright March Nasdaq and S&Ps was particularly weak.
(ZHS)



3:38 (Dow Jones) Rep. Ron Paul voices agreement with those who say a
recession is on the way, and says the Fed is "the real cause of the
business cycle," bringing booms that inevitably lead to busts. (JC)



3:28 (Dow Jones) Merrill economist Hartnett revises down U.S. growth
to 3.3% in 2001 from previous 3.7% because of weaker outlook for capital
spending, especially telecom equipment. Given weaker growth outlook,
Merrill Lynch expects Fed to cut rates 25 bp at March 2001 FOMC meeting
and ease again by 25 bp in June. (JNP)



3:25 (Dow Jones) Former Treasury spokesman Howard Schloss appointed
senior VP of communications and government relations for NASD and its
subsidiaries. (JC)



3:14 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch international economist Michael
Hartnett downgrades OECD countries 2001 global growth outlook to 2.6%
from 2.9%. U.S. downgraded to 3.3% from 3.7%. Euroland growth revised
down to 2.8% from 2.9% (JNP)



3:07 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps sink to new lows and dip into the gap area
from earlier this week, taking out support at 1362.50. Next support area
not until gap is closed, at 1355.50, which would wipe out all gains seen
on Tuesday, trader says. (DMC)



2:54 (Dow Jones) Signs of a slowdown in the U.S. economy prompted
Credit First Boston analyst Gibboney Huske to cut her 2001 earnings
estimates for the stocks in her imaging sector. She lowered her view on
Lexmark International (LXK) to $2.60 a share from $2.65; Eastman Kodak
(EK)to $5.10 from $5.40; Pitney Bowes (PBI) to $2.60 from $2.65; and
Polarois (PRD) to $1.40 from $1.60. (DDO)



2:49 (Dow Jones) Cutting its deal price to sell helped Harvard
Bioscience's (HBIO) stock. After pricing an IPO of 6.4 million shares at
$8 - well below original price talk of $11 to $13 a share - the stock is
now trading at $11, for a 37.5% gain. (RJH)



2:44 (Dow Jones) Stocks pulling back a bit, with tech names building
on earlier weakness. Given MOT, MSFT, and NSM developments, not a lot of
impetus to dive in. Short-term players may be nervous about payroll
numbers tomorrow, or possibility of more after-the-close warnings, and
shorts likely don't want to get squeezed by a Fla. court ruling that
could basically end the election fiasco. DJIA off 55 at 10609, Nasdaq
drops 71 to 2726, and S&P 500 loses 10 to 1341. (TG)



2:30 (Dow Jones) A.G. Edwards downgraded Bank of America (BAC), but
believes dividend is secure and that credit quality issues are largely
priced into the shares. Price could be limited near term, though, until
trends begin to improve. Price target now $51, a 10 multiple on next
year's earnings, a below-average valuation assumption. (TG)



2:18 (Dow Jones) Motorola's (MOT) profit warning is not a reflection
of weak global handset demand, noted Merrill Lynch analyst Michael
Ching. "The company did indicate that demand for handsets looks
relatively robust," Ching said. "They haven't changed their global
forecast for handsets for this year or next." Ching said the
announcement was a sign of a problem with execution at Motorola. He cut
his intermediate term rating from buy to accumulate, saying a lower
rating was not warranted given Motorola's low valuation. (JDB)



2:08 (Dow Jones) Health-care investors might want to take note of some
recent comments by Sen.-Elect Hillary Clinton. Clinton, who was sharply
criticized by health-care providers and HMOs in her first attempt to
reform the U.S. system, said Thursday in an Associated Press interview
that the matter is "still one of my priority concerns." There's one
important change in her position, though: This time, she tells AP, any
reform will be done "in a step-by-step way." (RJH)



2:04 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps inch to new session lows, with locals
dominating trade. Weakness in Nasdaq and DJIA also lends pressure,
traders say. "What we're seeing is a continuation of the weakness. The
fundamentals are still bad, nothing has changed," one trader says.
Another says reason not selling of harder is that shorts don't want to
get caught in pro-Bush ruling. (DMC)



1:54 (Dow Jones) Ventro Corp.'s (VNTR) stock is off 17% after the
company announced it's closing two of its online marketplaces, including
its original business. Ventro said the closing of the two unprofitable
marketplaces -- Chemdex and Promedix -- would result in the laying off
of almost half its employees. Ventro began life as Chemdex, an
electronic marketplace for chemicals and other life-sciences supplies,
and later it expanded into other vertical markets. (RS)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc704o37
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Intel Halted; Has Been Speculation Of 4Q Miss 

1,184 words
7 December 2000
21:20
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



4:18 (Dow Jones) Intel (INTC) halted on Nasdaq. News pending. There
has been talk of preannouncement in recent weeks. (TG/MLP)



4:13 (Dow Jones) Despite easy comparisons and a kids' meal promotion
tied to "The Grinch" hit movie, Wendy's International (WEN) November
sales were "somewhat disappointing," says J.P. Morgan's John Ivankoe.
While company stores had a 3.4% gain, the number was below expectations.
Concerned about flattening traffic at fast-food restaurants, he would
"trade around this and recent strength of Wendy's stock and prefer to
buy at lower levels." (RLG)



4:05 (Dow Jones) Shares of Anheuser-Busch (BUD) pushed higher as
investors headed for consumer staple stocks and out of some high-flying
technology stocks. Other consumer stocks that were up include Coca-Cola
Co. (KO), Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. (CCE), PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) and
Adolph Coors Co. (RKY). (DJH)



4:03 (Dow Jones) Stocks close lower, but session was timid in front of
Friday's key data and possible election ruling. Actually, for all the
bad news Thursday, in the form of lower EPS estimates, the market held
up pretty well. Techs mostly soft, and internals not too good, but
decent employment number - i.e. more people out of work - could give us
a boost. Stocks are definitely starting to digest bad news a little
better, a good sign. We just don't need anymore of that news. DJIA off
45 to 10617, Nasdaq falls 44 at 2752, and S&P 500 loses 7 to 1344
(preliminary). (TG)



3:55 (Dow Jones) President Clinton, discussing post-White House plans
in interview with Rolling Stone magazine, says "the challenge is to
trade power and authority broadly spread for influence and impact
tightly concentrated." (JC)



3:40 (Dow Jones) Despite slight recovery in stock futures, the light
volume and trading pattern in late afternoon is not lending stability,
floor traders say. "The market is feeling kind of weak," says one.
Volume on the outright March Nasdaq and S&Ps was particularly weak.
(ZHS)



3:38 (Dow Jones) Rep. Ron Paul voices agreement with those who say a
recession is on the way, and says the Fed is "the real cause of the
business cycle," bringing booms that inevitably lead to busts. (JC)



3:28 (Dow Jones) Merrill economist Hartnett revises down U.S. growth
to 3.3% in 2001 from previous 3.7% because of weaker outlook for capital
spending, especially telecom equipment. Given weaker growth outlook,
Merrill Lynch expects Fed to cut rates 25 bp at March 2001 FOMC meeting
and ease again by 25 bp in June. (JNP)



3:25 (Dow Jones) Former Treasury spokesman Howard Schloss appointed
senior VP of communications and government relations for NASD and its
subsidiaries. (JC)



3:14 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch international economist Michael
Hartnett downgrades OECD countries 2001 global growth outlook to 2.6%
from 2.9%. U.S. downgraded to 3.3% from 3.7%. Euroland growth revised
down to 2.8% from 2.9% (JNP)



3:07 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps sink to new lows and dip into the gap area
from earlier this week, taking out support at 1362.50. Next support area
not until gap is closed, at 1355.50, which would wipe out all gains seen
on Tuesday, trader says. (DMC)



2:54 (Dow Jones) Signs of a slowdown in the U.S. economy prompted
Credit First Boston analyst Gibboney Huske to cut her 2001 earnings
estimates for the stocks in her imaging sector. She lowered her view on
Lexmark International (LXK) to $2.60 a share from $2.65; Eastman Kodak
(EK)to $5.10 from $5.40; Pitney Bowes (PBI) to $2.60 from $2.65; and
Polarois (PRD) to $1.40 from $1.60. (DDO)



2:49 (Dow Jones) Cutting its deal price to sell helped Harvard
Bioscience's (HBIO) stock. After pricing an IPO of 6.4 million shares at
$8 - well below original price talk of $11 to $13 a share - the stock is
now trading at $11, for a 37.5% gain. (RJH)



2:44 (Dow Jones) Stocks pulling back a bit, with tech names building
on earlier weakness. Given MOT, MSFT, and NSM developments, not a lot of
impetus to dive in. Short-term players may be nervous about payroll
numbers tomorrow, or possibility of more after-the-close warnings, and
shorts likely don't want to get squeezed by a Fla. court ruling that
could basically end the election fiasco. DJIA off 55 at 10609, Nasdaq
drops 71 to 2726, and S&P 500 loses 10 to 1341. (TG)



2:30 (Dow Jones) A.G. Edwards downgraded Bank of America (BAC), but
believes dividend is secure and that credit quality issues are largely
priced into the shares. Price could be limited near term, though, until
trends begin to improve. Price target now $51, a 10 multiple on next
year's earnings, a below-average valuation assumption. (TG)



2:18 (Dow Jones) Motorola's (MOT) profit warning is not a reflection
of weak global handset demand, noted Merrill Lynch analyst Michael
Ching. "The company did indicate that demand for handsets looks
relatively robust," Ching said. "They haven't changed their global
forecast for handsets for this year or next." Ching said the
announcement was a sign of a problem with execution at Motorola. He cut
his intermediate term rating from buy to accumulate, saying a lower
rating was not warranted given Motorola's low valuation. (JDB)



2:08 (Dow Jones) Health-care investors might want to take note of some
recent comments by Sen.-Elect Hillary Clinton. Clinton, who was sharply
criticized by health-care providers and HMOs in her first attempt to
reform the U.S. system, said Thursday in an Associated Press interview
that the matter is "still one of my priority concerns." There's one
important change in her position, though: This time, she tells AP, any
reform will be done "in a step-by-step way." (RJH)



2:04 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps inch to new session lows, with locals
dominating trade. Weakness in Nasdaq and DJIA also lends pressure,
traders say. "What we're seeing is a continuation of the weakness. The
fundamentals are still bad, nothing has changed," one trader says.
Another says reason not selling of harder is that shorts don't want to
get caught in pro-Bush ruling. (DMC)



1:54 (Dow Jones) Ventro Corp.'s (VNTR) stock is off 17% after the
company announced it's closing two of its online marketplaces, including
its original business. Ventro said the closing of the two unprofitable
marketplaces -- Chemdex and Promedix -- would result in the laying off
of almost half its employees. Ventro began life as Chemdex, an
electronic marketplace for chemicals and other life-sciences supplies,
and later it expanded into other vertical markets. (RS)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc704o2m
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Investors Shy From Tech, But Like Staples 

1,086 words
7 December 2000
21:05
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



4:05 (Dow Jones) Shares of Anheuser-Busch (BUD) pushed higher as
investors headed for consumer staple stocks and out of some high-flying
technology stocks. Other consumer stocks that were up include Coca-Cola
Co. (KO), Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. (CCE), PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) and
Adolph Coors Co. (RKY). (DJH)



4:03 (Dow Jones) Stocks close lower, but session was timid in front of
Friday's key data and possible election ruling. Actually, for all the
bad news Thursday, in the form of lower EPS estimates, the market held
up pretty well. Techs mostly soft, and internals not too good, but
decent employment number - i.e. more people out of work - could give us
a boost. Stocks are definitely starting to digest bad news a little
better, a good sign. We just don't need anymore of that news. DJIA off
45 to 10617, Nasdaq falls 44 at 2752, and S&P 500 loses 7 to 1344
(preliminary). (TG)



3:55 (Dow Jones) President Clinton, discussing post-White House plans
in interview with Rolling Stone magazine, says "the challenge is to
trade power and authority broadly spread for influence and impact
tightly concentrated." (JC)



3:40 (Dow Jones) Despite slight recovery in stock futures, the light
volume and trading pattern in late afternoon is not lending stability,
floor traders say. "The market is feeling kind of weak," says one.
Volume on the outright March Nasdaq and S&Ps was particularly weak.
(ZHS)



3:38 (Dow Jones) Rep. Ron Paul voices agreement with those who say a
recession is on the way, and says the Fed is "the real cause of the
business cycle," bringing booms that inevitably lead to busts. (JC)



3:28 (Dow Jones) Merrill economist Hartnett revises down U.S. growth
to 3.3% in 2001 from previous 3.7% because of weaker outlook for capital
spending, especially telecom equipment. Given weaker growth outlook,
Merrill Lynch expects Fed to cut rates 25 bp at March 2001 FOMC meeting
and ease again by 25 bp in June. (JNP)



3:25 (Dow Jones) Former Treasury spokesman Howard Schloss appointed
senior VP of communications and government relations for NASD and its
subsidiaries. (JC)



3:14 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch international economist Michael
Hartnett downgrades OECD countries 2001 global growth outlook to 2.6%
from 2.9%. U.S. downgraded to 3.3% from 3.7%. Euroland growth revised
down to 2.8% from 2.9% (JNP)



3:07 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps sink to new lows and dip into the gap area
from earlier this week, taking out support at 1362.50. Next support area
not until gap is closed, at 1355.50, which would wipe out all gains seen
on Tuesday, trader says. (DMC)



2:54 (Dow Jones) Signs of a slowdown in the U.S. economy prompted
Credit First Boston analyst Gibboney Huske to cut her 2001 earnings
estimates for the stocks in her imaging sector. She lowered her view on
Lexmark International (LXK) to $2.60 a share from $2.65; Eastman Kodak
(EK)to $5.10 from $5.40; Pitney Bowes (PBI) to $2.60 from $2.65; and
Polarois (PRD) to $1.40 from $1.60. (DDO)



2:49 (Dow Jones) Cutting its deal price to sell helped Harvard
Bioscience's (HBIO) stock. After pricing an IPO of 6.4 million shares at
$8 - well below original price talk of $11 to $13 a share - the stock is
now trading at $11, for a 37.5% gain. (RJH)



2:44 (Dow Jones) Stocks pulling back a bit, with tech names building
on earlier weakness. Given MOT, MSFT, and NSM developments, not a lot of
impetus to dive in. Short-term players may be nervous about payroll
numbers tomorrow, or possibility of more after-the-close warnings, and
shorts likely don't want to get squeezed by a Fla. court ruling that
could basically end the election fiasco. DJIA off 55 at 10609, Nasdaq
drops 71 to 2726, and S&P 500 loses 10 to 1341. (TG)



2:30 (Dow Jones) A.G. Edwards downgraded Bank of America (BAC), but
believes dividend is secure and that credit quality issues are largely
priced into the shares. Price could be limited near term, though, until
trends begin to improve. Price target now $51, a 10 multiple on next
year's earnings, a below-average valuation assumption. (TG)



2:18 (Dow Jones) Motorola's (MOT) profit warning is not a reflection
of weak global handset demand, noted Merrill Lynch analyst Michael
Ching. "The company did indicate that demand for handsets looks
relatively robust," Ching said. "They haven't changed their global
forecast for handsets for this year or next." Ching said the
announcement was a sign of a problem with execution at Motorola. He cut
his intermediate term rating from buy to accumulate, saying a lower
rating was not warranted given Motorola's low valuation. (JDB)



2:08 (Dow Jones) Health-care investors might want to take note of some
recent comments by Sen.-Elect Hillary Clinton. Clinton, who was sharply
criticized by health-care providers and HMOs in her first attempt to
reform the U.S. system, said Thursday in an Associated Press interview
that the matter is "still one of my priority concerns." There's one
important change in her position, though: This time, she tells AP, any
reform will be done "in a step-by-step way." (RJH)



2:04 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps inch to new session lows, with locals
dominating trade. Weakness in Nasdaq and DJIA also lends pressure,
traders say. "What we're seeing is a continuation of the weakness. The
fundamentals are still bad, nothing has changed," one trader says.
Another says reason not selling of harder is that shorts don't want to
get caught in pro-Bush ruling. (DMC)



1:54 (Dow Jones) Ventro Corp.'s (VNTR) stock is off 17% after the
company announced it's closing two of its online marketplaces, including
its original business. Ventro said the closing of the two unprofitable
marketplaces -- Chemdex and Promedix -- would result in the laying off
of almost half its employees. Ventro began life as Chemdex, an
electronic marketplace for chemicals and other life-sciences supplies,
and later it expanded into other vertical markets. (RS)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc704o0h
?
 

 Options Report: Traders Hold Back In Uncertain Market 

 By Kopin Tan 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
827 words
7 December 2000
20:32
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Welcome to the holiday season. 

 Options trading volume was light ahead of Friday's release of employment data. As traders look ahead to the holidays, premiums and volatility associated with options are likely to decline. Meanwhile, with the interminable race for the White House closer to resolution, and Federal Open Market Committee meeting in less than two weeks, traders appear reluctant to take on too much premium - not when the direction of the stock market remains so uncertain. 

 A slowdown in corporate earnings growth now seems as inevitable as the winter, as Motorola Inc. became the latest to join the growing list of companies to issue a profit warning. Meanwhile, Goldman Sach's influential software analyst cited sluggish PC sales in cutting revenue estimates for Microsoft Corp. Options of both companies traded briskly Thursday, along with other computer makers and software companies. 

 Best Buy Co.'s options also attracted heavy options trading. After the specialty retailer confirmed plans to buy Musicland Stores Corp., Wall Street questioned the rationale for the proposed deal and its impact on Best Buy's bottom line. Best Buy stock fell $5.50, or 19.1%, to $23.31 on heavy trading volume. 

 While Best Buy's options saw two-way paper, traders concentrated on buying put options, said a floor trader at the CBOE. Among the most heavily traded were the January 17.50 puts, which were at $1.25 on Chicago Board Options Exchange volume of 2,173 contracts, compared with composite open interest of 184. Another 2,097 contracts traded on other exchanges. 

 In the face of growing concerns over corporate earnings, some investors looked hard to find a bright spot. Apple Computer Inc's options continued to trade actively, a day after the company issued a pessimistic earnings forecast. 

 But at least one trader was willing to take a cautiously bullish stance on the computer maker. The investor sold 5,000 contracts of Apple's July 10 puts, likely counting on the beaten down stock not to dip below the strike price over the next few months. 

 With Apple most recently gaining 19 cents to $14.50, the July 10 puts were at $1.13 on CBOE volume of 5,000 contracts, compared with open interest of 31. 

 The CBOE's Market Volatility Index, VIX, which measures certain Standard & Poor's 100 option prices to determine investor sentiment, gained 0.37 to 28.31. 

 The VIX, also called the options market's fear gauge, normally ranges between 17 and 25. When VIX rises, it is usually an indication that traders are getting uptight about the market, while a dip reflects optimism. 

 Elsewhere in the options market: 

 - An investor traded a deep in-the-money put spread in Yahoo! Inc. by buying the January 185 puts and selling the January 210 puts. 

 Yahoo! reached a 52-week low and most recently was trading at $33.94. At the Pacific Exchange, the January 185 puts gained $4 to $150 on volume of 9,999 contracts, while another 6,000 contracts traded on the CBOE. Composite open interest was 19,586. The January 210 puts gained $4 to $175 on volume of 9,999 contracts, with another 6,000 contracts trading at the CBOE; composite open interest was 4,105. 

 - In another sign of the growth of the options business, equity options volume in November was 23% higher than the same month a year earlier, according to the Options Industry Council. More than 58.69 million contracts traded last month, compared with 47.75 million contracts in November 1999. 

 With the uncertainty about the future direction of stocks - the Nasdaq Composite Index suffered its worst month since October 1987 - many investors used strategies involving puts to protect their current positions, said Paul Stevens, OIC president. More than 23.61 million puts traded in November, compared with 30.07 million calls. That produced a put/call ratio of about 0.67, compared with 0.43 in November last year. 

 - The CBOE's equity put/call ratio was 0.69, indicating 69 puts traded for every 100 calls. The ratio traditionally is interpreted as a contrarian sentiment indicator, which holds that if too many traders are bullish, then the smart approach is to be bearish. Using this contrarian criteria, the index historically has been considered a bullish sentiment indicator if it is around 0.75 to 1; neutral from 0.40 to 0.75 and bearish if it is below 0.40. 

 - The CBOE's index put/call ratio was 1.25. This ratio also is interpreted as a contrarian sentiment indicator. The index is considered bullish if the ratio is 1.5 or higher; neutral from 0.75 to 1.5 and bearish if it is below 0.75. 


   - By Kopin Tan, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-2202
   kopin.tan@dowjones.com


Document dj00000020010805dwc704ny2
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Picture This - Lower Estimates On Imagers 

1,088 words
7 December 2000
19:55
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



2:54 (Dow Jones) Signs of a slowdown in the U.S. economy prompted
Credit First Boston analyst Gibboney Huske to cut her 2001 earnings
estimates for the stocks in her imaging sector. She lowered her view on
Lexmark International (LXK) to $2.60 a share from $2.65; Eastman Kodak
(EK)to $5.10 from $5.40; Pitney Bowes (PBI) to $2.60 from $2.65; and
Polarois (PRD) to $1.40 from $1.60. (DDO)



2:49 (Dow Jones) Cutting its deal price to sell helped Harvard
Bioscience's (HBIO) stock. After pricing an IPO of 6.4 million shares at
$8 - well below original price talk of $11 to $13 a share - the stock is
now trading at $11, for a 37.5% gain. (RJH)



2:44 (Dow Jones) Stocks pulling back a bit, with tech names building
on earlier weakness. Given MOT, MSFT, and NSM developments, not a lot of
impetus to dive in. Short-term players may be nervous about payroll
numbers tomorrow, or possibility of more after-the-close warnings, and
shorts likely don't want to get squeezed by a Fla. court ruling that
could basically end the election fiasco. DJIA off 55 at 10609, Nasdaq
drops 71 to 2726, and S&P 500 loses 10 to 1341. (TG)



2:30 (Dow Jones) A.G. Edwards downgraded Bank of America (BAC), but
believes dividend is secure and that credit quality issues are largely
priced into the shares. Price could be limited near term, though, until
trends begin to improve. Price target now $51, a 10 multiple on next
year's earnings, a below-average valuation assumption. (TG)



2:18 (Dow Jones) Motorola's (MOT) profit warning is not a reflection
of weak global handset demand, noted Merrill Lynch analyst Michael
Ching. "The company did indicate that demand for handsets looks
relatively robust," Ching said. "They haven't changed their global
forecast for handsets for this year or next." Ching said the
announcement was a sign of a problem with execution at Motorola. He cut
his intermediate term rating from buy to accumulate, saying a lower
rating was not warranted given Motorola's low valuation. (JDB)



2:08 (Dow Jones) Health-care investors might want to take note of some
recent comments by Sen.-Elect Hillary Clinton. Clinton, who was sharply
criticized by health-care providers and HMOs in her first attempt to
reform the U.S. system, said Thursday in an Associated Press interview
that the matter is "still one of my priority concerns." There's one
important change in her position, though: This time, she tells AP, any
reform will be done "in a step-by-step way." (RJH)



2:04 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps inch to new session lows, with locals
dominating trade. Weakness in Nasdaq and DJIA also lends pressure,
traders say. "What we're seeing is a continuation of the weakness. The
fundamentals are still bad, nothing has changed," one trader says.
Another says reason not selling of harder is that shorts don't want to
get caught in pro-Bush ruling. (DMC)



1:54 (Dow Jones) Ventro Corp.'s (VNTR) stock is off 17% after the
company announced it's closing two of its online marketplaces, including
its original business. Ventro said the closing of the two unprofitable
marketplaces -- Chemdex and Promedix -- would result in the laying off
of almost half its employees. Ventro began life as Chemdex, an
electronic marketplace for chemicals and other life-sciences supplies,
and later it expanded into other vertical markets. (RS)



1:48 (Dow Jones) Every morning we jump out of bed to get a look at
fair value, trying to get a feel for how the market looks. But do you
know how it's  calculated? Now you do, courtesy of Schaeffer's
Investment Research: Cash{1+R(X/365)} - Dividend - Cash. Cash is the
actual close of the index, R is the current interest rate (typically
3-month T-bill), X represents time left until the current futures
contract expires, and the dividend is calculated by converitng the yield
on the index into points (index value x yield) x (days til
expiration/365). Not too difficult if you have all the data. (TG)



1:36 (Dow Jones) According to Weds. open interest data, S&P 500 open
interest was 501731, breaking Tuesday record of 496339. E-mini S&Ps open
interest was 80954, vs. the open interest record of 79360 set on
Tuesday. (DMC)



1:28 (Dow Jones) In post-election letter to members, CBOT's Brennan
says major initiatives such as the exchange's search for a CEO and
release of the S-4 will be put on hold for Nickolas Neubauer's review
when he assumes position of CBOT chairman next month. (CMN)



1:19 (Dow Jones) State Street (STT) is a relatively small player in
the business of catering to wealthy individuals, but its acquisition of
a tiny Los Angeles firm may indicate that it has bigger ambitions in
this fast-growing area of asset management. (AMB)



1:01 (Dow Jones) If you didn't think you had a big enough selection of
women's underthings, Victoria's Secret's new 18,000 square-foot store at
67th & Broadway in Manhattan may be the place to go. Sales at the
two-level store, which opened in late November, could reach $15 million
in its first year, according to the Intimate Brands (IBI) unit. It's
stocked with 60,000 bras, and more than 100,000 panties among other
items. Excluding beauty and hosiery products, the location has 10 times
as much merhcandise as an average Victoria's Secret store. (PAP)



12:51 (Dow Jones) Natural gas locals were seen openly haranguing Nymex
board and committee members touring the pits mid-morning Thursday during
a suspension of trading, traders say. "They're not happy - they're
losing money," says one. Pit participants are concerned that ACCESS
trading on low volume has artificially run the price of natural gas up.
Locals, he says, want Nymex to set $1.50 up- and down-limits and stay
with them. (JEE)



12:48 (Dow Jones) The dollar rose for the fifth consecutive month in
November on a trade-weighted basis against other major currencies,
according to the Atlanta Fed.


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc704nsv
?
 

 Motorola 4Q Hurt By Mfg Cost  Cut  Delays,Chip Mkt Factors 

 By Christine Nuzum 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
997 words
7 December 2000
18:27
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- A slowing market for semiconductors along with problems in its handset product mix are once again causing more damage to Motorola Corp.'s (MOT) than the company had predicted. 

 Thursday morning, Motorola cut its fourth-quarter guidance for the second time in two months. Motorola said it will earn 15 cents a share in the fourth quarter, down from the 27-cent figure given in October. That projection had already been cut by 10 cents a share. Motorola put fourth-quarter revenue at $10 billion, down from the October estimate by $500 million. 

 The company said profits in both its handset business and its semiconductor business will fall short of its October predictions. Problems in the semiconductor business seem to arise from overall industry conditions, while those in the handset business are more specific to Motorola, analysts said. Delays in cutting production costs hurt profits on the handset side, Motorola said in a Thursday morning press release. 

 Motorola is still paying dues for missing the market for low-end handsets, analysts said. Betting on the market for more expensive mobile phones with Web-surfing capabilities and other luxury features proved ill-fated for the company, which has been losing customers to the more consumer-focused Nokia Corp. (NOK). A year ago, Motorola tried to remedy its bad bet on product mix by shifting its focus to individual consumers, which are seen as 70% of the market. Most individual consumers purchase lower-end mobile phones. But the move came too late, said Morningstar analyst Todd Bernier. Now that Motorola has lower-end products on the market, it is seeing ample consumer demand, but hasn't yet figured out how to boost margins on cellular phone production. Motorola's handsets have profit margins of about 6% while those of Nokia's handsets are around 20%, Bernier said. 

 With such high profitability, Nokia is able to increase production of its mobile phones and eat into Motorola's market share by offering lower-priced phones, Bernier said. Loss of market share to Nokia was also seen as the force behind the October fourth-quarter profit warning from the other major handset manufacturer, L.M. Ericsson Telephone Co. (ERICY). 

 The company said slowing market conditions hurt its semiconductor business, and said chip sales should rebound early next year. Many customers have inventory backlogs left over from excessive orders placed in the first half of 2000, said analyst Vivian Mamelak of Arnhold & S. Bleichroeder. 

 For the last week, Motorola's stock price has slowly drifted downward as rumors of a possible earnings warning made their way through the market. Thursday, its stock price seems to have been already discounted by the rumors; its recent slide of 63 cents, or 3.5%, was narrower than the stock's 6.3% loss Wednesday. 

 Cost-cutting initiatives will result in charges against earnings for the fourth quarter and the first quarter of next year, Motorola said. The company also expects to report a gain on a sale in the fourth quarter. Earnings estimates don't include these items. 

 In Thursday's press release, Motorola said it also expects that results for 2001 will be lower than the reduced expectations provided in October. The company said it will provide specific earnings guidance for next year when it announces fourth-quarter results in January. 

 The company said that, after some delay, handset manufacturing cost cuts have begun and will continue into the first quarter. 

 Motorola added that it expects "to fully participate" in global industry sales projections of 420 million handset units this year and between 525 million and 575 million in 2001. 

 Those figures may be unrealistically high, said Mamelak of Arnhold & S. Bleichroeder, particularly since they are based on the optimistic assumption that half of all mobile phone users will buy replacements next year. 

 Other analysts say new features such as smaller handset size, longer battery life, data services, and changes in style or color will induce consumers to upgrade. But Mamelak said size reduction and extended battery life were additions to this year's phones, and that next year's improvements will be geared toward additional services, which haven't attracted much demand. 

 "Wireless data has proven to be one big bust except in Japan," which is a special case because there is little consumer Internet usage, she said. 

 And, she added, she doubts that half of current wireless subscribers will opt to replace their handsets next year if the economy slows. A slowing economy could also cut into the projected number of 200 million new subscribers worldwide, she added. 

 Additionally, wireless carriers are cutting subsidies on handsets in Europe and Asia, she said. If the consumer absorbs the subsidy, then fewer people will adopt mobile phone use, Mamelak said. 

 Motorola's cost-cutting actions include a shift toward outsourcing and consolidating operations. 

 "If they want to regain confidence, they really need to execute better within their wireless space," said David Powers, an analyst with Edward Jones. 

 Given Motorola's history of execution problems on the handset side, "their strategy of outsourcing makes sense, long-term," he said, but added that it will take some time for the shift to affect Motorola's results. 

 Motorola said the effect of the cost cuts will "be evident by mid-year 2001," but Powers and other analysts were skeptical. 

 Manufacturing costs may not be the only factor hurting Motorola's handset business. According to Merrill Lynch analyst Michael Ching, an outdated product mix still plagues the company. 

 "The company suffers from a bloated inventory of older model phones, which is slowing the transition to newer, higher-margin products," he wrote in a Thursday research note. Motorola says its cost-cutting efforts should yield more high-margin products, and boost profits by the middle of next year. 

 -Christine Nuzum; Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5172 

Document dj00000020010805dwc704nmf
?
 

 WSJ.COM WRAP: Motorola Lowers Sales, Profit Guidance 

342 words
7 December 2000
15:09
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   A WSJ.COM News Roundup



SCHAUMBURG, Ill. -(Dow Jones)- Motorola Inc. (MOT) reduced its
fourth-quarter sales and earnings expectations, citing a delay in
reducing costs and a world-wide slowdown in the semiconductor market.


 The company now expects fourth-quarter earnings of 15 cents a diluted share and sales of $10 billion, compared with its October forecast for earnings of 27 cents a share and sales of $10.5 billion. Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial expected earnings of 27 cents a share. 

 The warning comes on the heels of Motorola's announcement Wednesday that the company will cut 2,870 jobs from its payroll, about 2.2% of its total work force, and outsource the manufacturing of $1 billion of wireless-communications equipment to Celestica Inc. (CLS). Motorola has been facing a squeeze on profit margins and declining new orders, particularly in its cell-phone manufacturing division. 

 Motorola on Thursday said operating profit from the company's personal-communications segment have been hurt by delays in achieving expected cost reductions in wireless-phone production. 

 Motorola said inventory adjustments by customers are contributing to a decline in the global semiconductor market, which has hurt sales and operating profit at Motorola's chip business. 

 The company is completing its planning process for the upcoming year and said it intends to provide sales and earnings forecasts for 2001 when it announces its final results for 2000. The guidance for 2001 is expected to be lower than the current 2001 outlook. In October, the company forecast 2001 earnings of $1.20 a share on sales of $44 billion. 

 "Even though it is necessary to reduce our expectations for sales and earnings in the short term, we continue to believe that tremendous long-term opportunity exists at three levels of the value chain - embedded chips, embedded electronic systems and end-to-end integrated communication solutions - for wireless, broadband and Internet markets," Robert L. Growney, Motorola's president and chief operating officer, said in a written statement. 

Document dj00000020010805dwc704n4a
?
 

 YYY 

CP
506 words
7 December 2000
08:31
Broadcast News
BNW
English
 Copyright (c) 2000 The Canadian Press. All rights reserved. 

 Appliance maker Camco Incorporated is sinking 30-million dollars into its plant in Montreal, instead of its factory in Hamilton, Ontario. 

 Camco chose Montreal because of a subsidy it's getting from the Quebec government. 

 Company president James Fleck won't reveal the details of the financial assistance, other than to say it's ``meaningful.'' 

 The Montreal plant makes dishwashers and dryers. 

 Camco is controlled by General Electric. 

 (Hamilton Spectator) 

 (Cogeco-Cable) 

 Cogeco Cable is leaving its options open in terms of possible acquisitors. 

 Cogeo C-E-O Louis Audet says he's not ruling out a takeover by a foreign cable operator or Rogers Communications Incorporated. 

 Rogers already owns about 12 per cent of Cogeco Cable's shares and 17 per cent of parent company Cogeco Incorporated. 

 Industry observers say the Audet family may be holding out for multiple bids if foreign ownership rules are relaxed. (NatPost) 

 (Decoma) 

 Decoma International's shareholders have approved the purchase of parent company Magna International's European exterior auto parts business. 

 The deal will more than double Decoma's revenue to 2.5-billion dollars annually and increase its customer base. 

 Decoma president Alan Power adds the 565-million dollar deal will push the company into the global market. 

 Decoma is based in Concord, Ontario, just north of Toronto. (Globe&Mail) 

 (Hasbro-Cuts) 

 Just as Christmas is fast-approaching, toy maker Hasbro is issuing a profit warning and cutting jobs. 

 Hasbro, based in Providence, Rhode Island, says it expects earnings for the full year to break-even ``at best.'' 

 C-E-O Alan Hassenfeld blames the shortfall on the decline in worldwide revenue of trading card games like ``Pokemon'' and ``Magic: The Gathering.'' 

 The company also expects to cut about 750 jobs. (APB) 

 (E-Commerce-Automakers) 

 Three big automakers in the U-S are expected to formally announce today that they are joining forces in an e-commerce venture. 

 Ford, General Motors and DaimlerChrysler are creating an online parts-buying exchange to be called Covisint, which received its final regulatory clearance from the U-S Federal Trade Commission in September. 

 The announcement about the joint venture is scheduled to be made at 9:30 a-m Eastern time. (APB) 

 (Stocks) 

 The T-S-E 300 slipped 48.45 points yesterday to close at 9,230.59. 

 Market heavy-weight Nortel Networks ended the day down $1.10 at $61.30. 

 In New York, the Dow Jones average fell 234.34 points to 10,664.38, while the tech-heavy Nasdaq lost 93.30 points to 2,796.50. (CP) 

 On The Markets... 

 In Tokyo, the Nikkei Stock Average fell 169 points from late Wednesday to 14,720.36. 

 The U-S dollar is down $0.32 yen in Tokyo from late Wednesday, with the greenback trading at 110.42 yen. 

 Gold is up $3.75 in London, opening at $275.15 U-S an ounce. 

 Our dollar is unchanged this morning in London. It opened at 65.42 cents U-S. 

 (Business Report by Neena Chowdhury) 

Document bnw0000020010803dwc7020rw
?
 

 ADR REPORT-Foreign shares sag under weight of U.S. market. 

540 words
6 December 2000
20:25
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 6 (Reuters) - Foreign shares traded in the United States slumped on Wednesday after the popular stock indices here pulled back following an explosive rally. 

 Personal computer giant Apple Computer Corp. warned of a quarterly loss, blaming a slowing U.S. economy and soft holiday sales, nicking the optimism that had launched the Nasdaq composite index to its largest gain ever on Tuesday. 

 The Bank of New York's index of leading American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) lost 1.47 percent to 130.91. The tech-packed Nasdaq shed 2.25 percent to 2,824 after notching a more than 10 percent gain on Tuesday. The Dow Jones industrial average , the closely watched blue-chip gauge, dropped 1.95 percent to 10,685. 

 The Bank of New York's index of leading European American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) slipped 1.32 percent to 140.48. Tumbling oil prices had cast a pall over European markets earlier, reining in recently rejuvenated technology, media and telecoms stocks. 

 ADRs of oil majors, whose bottom lines are tied to the commodity price, fell. TotalFinaElf dropped $2-9/16 to $66-3/8, BP Amoco Plc shed $2-1/8 to $45-3/8 and Royal Dutch Petroleum Co. slid $2-7/8 to $56-1/4. 

 UBS Warburg cut its weighting on the European oil sector to "underweight" from "hold." But Dresdner Kleinwort Benson raised the sector to "overweight" from "neutral." 

 Healthcare ADRs sank after two leading houses warned about overexposure to drug stocks. Goldman Sachs said valuations were looking stretched while Deutsche Bank recommended investors shift portfolio weightings out of a range of defensives, including pharmaceuticals. 

 Glaxo Wellcome Plc lost $2-1/2 to $55-3/8, and SmithKline Beecham Plc fell $2-1/2 to $63-3/16. 

 The Bank of New York index of leading Asian ADRs slipped 2.20 percent to 117.98. Asian shares had surged on Wednesday as the Nasdaq's rally lured investors into tech stocks. But the gains were pared at the finish due to profit-taking and on concern the rally on the U.S. tech-driven market was overdone, especially after the warning from Apple. 

 ADRs of Japanese electronics giant Sony Corp. lost $2-1/2 to $77-11/16. Technology companies Hitachi Ltd. sank $2-3/8 to $100, Kyocera Corp. slipped $1 to $136-1/4 and NEC Corp. shed $2-1/2 to $105. Auto company Honda Motor Co. Ltd. dropped $1-1/8 to $69-7/8. 

 China Mobile (Hong Kong) Ltd. fell $1-3/8 to $29-7/8. Chinese wireless carrier China Unicom Ltd. edged down 7/16 to $17-1/8. Oil giant PetroChina Co. Ltd. inched down 3/16 to $18-1/4. 

 The Bank of New York's index of leading Latin American ADRs lost 1.15 percent to 89.43, tracking the Nasdaq's downward trend. 

 Mexican telephone giant Telmex edged 7/16 lower to $47-3/8. Cellular company Grupo Iusacell inched down 1/8 to $10-15/16. 

 Brazilian phone companies Tele Norte Leste Participaes fell 1/2 to $19-13/16, and Telebras lost 15/16 to $62-11/16. 

Document lba0000020010821dwc60b6op
?
 

 U.S. shares edge down in Europe, Apple weighs. 

427 words
6 December 2000
11:12
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, Dec 6 (Reuters) - U.S. shares moved lower in European trade on Wednesday, hit by profit-taking and a warning from Apple Computer Corp. after sharp Wall Street gains a day earlier. 

 By 1100 GMT, December Nasdaq futures were down 25.5 points at 2,815.0 in the wake of a 10.5 percent surge in the tech-heavy index on Tuesday - its biggest ever one-day gain - to 2,889.80. 

 Standard & Poor's 500 December futures were down 3.2 points to 1,371.0. On Tuesday, the Dow Jones Industrial average jumped 3.21 percent to 10,898.72. 

 "Shares have been drifting south after the gains on Tuesday. We are seeing some profit-taking, combined with the negative impact of the Apple news," said one dealer. 

 Apple Computer announced after the close of trading on Tuesday that it would post its first quarterly operating loss in three years as sales fell far short of expectations, making it the second major computer maker to say sales in the run-up to Christmas were slow. 

 Apple shares tumbled some 20 percent in after-hours trade on Tuesday and were quoted at $14 in Europe, compared with a close of $17. 

 Elsewhere in the sector, Compaq , the world's largest computer maker, was quoted at $23-3/8, compared with a close of $24.4. 

 Shares in Dell Computer Corp. dipped to $19-1/2 from a close of $20-1/4. 

 The world's biggest semi-conductor maker Intel Corp stood at $35-5/8, after closing at $36. 

 One bright spot was consumer products maker Gillette Co. , which was quoted at $33-1/2, compared with a close of $32-3/4 after Standard & Poor's said it would replace Polaroid in the S&P 100 index. 

 The Wall Street gains on Tuesday were driven by speculation that the U.S. Federal Reserve might soon cut interest rates and that the drawn-out battle for the White House was nearing an end. 

 The huge rally came after technology stocks in November suffered their worst month since October 1987 with a 23 percent dive on investors' worries about slowing growth. Even Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan now acknowledges the U.S. economy has already lost momentum, and on Tuesday hinted the Fed might be willing to contemplate lower interest rates. 

 On the economic data front, the Federal Reserve was due to release its Beige Book report of economic forecasts at 1900 GMT. 

Document lba0000020010821dwc60b2it
?
 Apple warns of slow sales 

334 words
6 December 2000
Newswire (VNU)
VNUN
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 VNU Business Publications Ltd.; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 Apple has blamed "significantly" slower sales during the past two months for its first quarter profit warning issued yesterday. 

 The announcement by the Mac manufacturer follows a similar warning by Gateway, which also blamed sluggish sales during the US Thanksgiving holiday weekend at the end of November. Apple alsofailed to meet its downgraded expectations for its fourth quarter results, which were announced in October. 

 The company expects to report second quarter revenue of about $1bn, $600m lower than previous expectations, and a net loss of between $225m and $220m, excluding investment gains. Wall Street had been expectingearnings per share of three cents. 

 The revenue shortfall is blamed on lower than expected worldwide channel sales, and unplanned sales promotions and pricingactions, said Apple. The net loss is also the result of revenue shortfall and cancellation charges related to decreases in forecasted component purchases. 

 Apple executives said the company did not see the usual rush of sales at the end of November, and that although sales in October beat those of last year, the figure is below expectations. The company also discounted the price of its G4 Cube system in October to boost flagging sales. 

 However, Apple chiefs are confidentthat the company will return to profitability in its second quarter, and would report revenues of between $6bn and $6.5bn for the whole of fiscal 2001. 

 Chiefexecutive Steve Jobs said: "The swift industry-wide decline in PC sales will result in Apple's first non-profitable quarter in three years. We're not happy about it, and plan to return to sustained profitability next quarter." 

 In its fourth quarter results, Apple reported net profit of $108m, or 30 cents a share, excluding profit from a stock sale. In late September, the company warned that earnings would be between 30 and 33 cents. Analysts had revised their earnings per share estimates to 31 cents. 

 Apple is expected to publish results for its second quarter, which ends on 30 December, on 17 January. 

Document vnun000020010814dwc6002lj
?
 

 Stocks Tumble as Profit Warnings Continue to Trouble Investors 

 By David Runk 
1,081 words
6 December 2000
14:27
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 WSJ.com 

 NEW YORK -- Stocks skidded Wednesday, led by technology and financial shares, as warnings from Apple Computer and Bank of America fueled worries about earnings and left the market unable to build on the previous day's record gains. 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 234.34 points, or 2.2%, to close at 10664.38, after jumping 338.62, or 3.2%, the previous session. The Nasdaq Composite Index slid 93.30, or 3.2%, to 2796.50, after soaring a record 274.05 points, or 10.5%, on Tuesday. 

 Other major indexes also fell. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 25.08 to 1351.46, the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index dropped 7.55 to 645.72, and the Russell 2000 Index of small-capitalization stocks gave back 7.63 to 463.54. 

 The market came under pressure throughout the day because of profit-taking from Tuesday's rally and weakness in technology shares. But the losses deepened in the afternoon as a warning from Bank of America put the financial sector under pressure. 

 Bond prices rallied as stocks retreated. U.S. Treasurys are seen as a safe haven during turmoil in the stock market. The climbs Tuesday and Wednesday drove Treasurys yields to their lowest levels since April 1999. 

 The earnings outlook, a persistent cause of concern as the economy slows, restrained the market from the open. Shares of personal-computer maker Apple (AAPL) fell $2.69, or 16%, to $14.31 by 4 p.m. EST, after it said late Tuesday that it will report sharply lower-than-expected revenue and a surprise loss from operations for the current quarter. 

 But the Bank of America (BAC) news exacerbated the decline. Its shares slid $3.19 to $38 after the company warned that profit for the fourth-quarter and next year will likely trail Wall Street targets, citing higher loan losses, higher credit costs and slowing capital-markets activity. 

 "The market is concerned with earnings preannouncements," said Erik Gustafson, a senior portfolio manager for Stein Roe & Farnham. "And we had another one from Bank of America this afternoon. ... Markets don't like that." 

 After trading solidly higher for much of the day amid optimism about the interest-rate outlook, financial stocks turned lower in the afternoon. Dow component J.P. Morgan (JPM) fell $2.75 to $148.88 after being up as much as $7 earlier in the day. Its merger partner Chase Manhattan (CMB) dropped, along with First Union (FTU), Bank One (ONE) and Dow component Citigroup (C), following the news from Bank of America. 

 Meanwhile, the continuing legal battles over the presidential election put pressure on the market, Mr. Gustafson said, as attention focused on cases in two Florida counties. And a federal court denied an appeal by George W. Bush to throw out manual recounts in Florida. 

 Among PC makers, Dow components International Business Machines (IBM) and Hewlett-Packard (HWP) fell, while Dell Computer (DELL) sank $2.25, or 11%, ot $18. All three had earnings estimates cut by Credit Suisse First Boston, sending IBM down $6.63 to $96.75. Dow stocks and tech leaders Microsoft (MSFT) and Intel (INTC) both dropped. 

 "Even though we had a good day [Tuesday], there are some formidable hurdles for the stock market," said Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at First Albany. "The biggest hurdle is that many companies are going to be warning that their sales and earnings are going to be lower than expected or forecast for the fourth quarter. ... That is a strong headwind for the market." 

 Many of the Old Economy names that had advanced recently pulled back, contributing to weakness in the blue-chip average. Among them, Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing (MMM) sank $1.50 to $115.13 after a two-day surge of about $17. 

 Elsewhere, Circuit City Group (CC) fell $3.13, or 25%, to $9.63. The company warned that its electronics-retailing chain, Circuit City Stores, will post a wider-than-expected loss in the fiscal third quarter amid a drop in sales and higher costs of remodeling some stores. 

 Wednesday's drop followed the strongest one-day performance for the Nasdaq composite in point and percentage terms, and the third-biggest point gain ever for the industrial average. Shares surged Tuesday after Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan signaled that the Fed may formally abandon its tilt toward higher interest rates, extending a rally that started with optimism that the U.S. presidential election was nearing a resolution. 

 On the economic front, the Labor Department on Wednesday reported that nonfarm productivity rose at a 3.3% annual rate from July through September, down from the government's preliminary estimate of 3.8% and slightly lower than the 3.5% increase expected by economists. Unit labor costs rose at a 2.9% clip in the third quarter, up from the previous estimate of 2.5% and slightly above estimates for a 2.8% increase. 

 The data suggest American workers were less efficient on the job in the third quarter than previously thought, but the deceleration in productivity is unlikely to raise inflationary worries amid the broad slowdown in economic activity shown by recent reports. 

 The Federal Reserve released its survey of regional economies known as the "beige book" Wednesday afternoon, which showed more evidence of slowing economic growth. But investors are waiting for the employment report Friday for guidance about the economic outlook. 

 Outside the U.S., European markets closed mostly lower Wednesday. In the Asian-Pacific region, shares finished higher in the wake of Tuesday's surge by stocks on Wall Street. 

 In major U.S. market action: 

 Stocks fell. On the Big Board, where 1.36 billion shares traded, 1,674 stocks declined and 1,230 advanced. On the Nasdaq market, 2.28 billion shares changed hands. 

 Bonds surged. The 10-year Treasury note jumped nearly 7/8, or $8.75 for each $1,000 invested, bringing the yield down to 5.31%. The 30-year bond rose a little more than a point to yield 5.52%. 

 The dollar dropped. It traded at 110.35 yen while the euro was at 89.15 cents, compared with 111.15 yen and 87.98 cents late Tuesday in New York. 

 Write to David Runk at david.runk@wsj.com 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dwc601oqb
?
 

 Nasdaq Loss Widens; Bank Of Amer Credit Concerns Cited 

 By Christine Nuzum and Donna Fuscaldo 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
787 words
6 December 2000
19:50
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- The Nasdaq Composite Index suddenly  doubled its Wednesday decline as Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  said credit losses will affect its earnings. 

 Wednesday afternoon, the financial services giant said it  will post lower-than expected fourth-quarter earnings, adding that credit costs are hurting its performance. 

 Bank of America's warning is fueling fears of wider credit problems and their effect on the economy, said Ian Ainsworth, manager of the Altamira Science and Technology Fund. 

 "The idea that credit losses will increase and put pressure on banks to tighten lending could cause a worse-than-expected economic slowdown," he said. 

 Slower economic growth is generally seen as a barrier to corporate and consumer spending on technology. 

 Recently, the Nasdaq Composite was down 79.25, or 2.7%, to 2810.55. Until early afternoon, its losses had stayed mostly under 1%. 

 However, other market-watchers said that midday downgrades exacerbated worries over the personal computer makers, and other technology industries. PC stocks had a rough Wednesday after Apple Computer Inc. (AAPL) lowered its first-quarter guidance for the second time in the last month. 

 Alan Ackerman, market strategist at Fahnestock & Co., had one company to blame for Wednesday's sell off - Apple. But the news shouldn't have come as such a surprise, he said. Just last week Gateway Inc. (GTW) warned that December earnings wouldn't meet expectations, blaming weaker sales of personal computers during the Thanksgiving shopping week. The Thanksgiving weekend is the first shopping weekend of the holiday season and a good indicator of how sales will be. 

 Ackerman said the sell-off in the Nasdaq picked up steam later in the day because investors saw more analyst downgrades. 

 Apple's rating was cut by J.P. Morgan Securities and Credit Suisse First Boston Wednesday morning. Later in the day, Salomon Smith Barney put out a cautious research note on Intel, saying the fourth quarter is shaping up to be the chipmaker's worst in more than 10 years. 

 Shares of Intel were recently trading down 10%. IBM and Dell Computer Corp. (DELL) also had their EPS views cut by Credit Suisse First Boston. Dell was recently off 12%. 

 Salomon's note on Intel "probably compounded the story," said Ainsworth of the Altamira Science and Technology Fund. 

 The note was out Wednesday morning, but didn't hit the wires until the afternoon, at about the same time that Bank of America issued its profitwarning and the Nasdaq started to nosedive. 

 Ainsworth thinks that technology stocks widened their losses on worries that Bank of America's comments may foreshadow more pervasive credit losses. A tight credit market could hurt technology companies by lowering capital spending, inducing cutbacks in equipment leasing, and by cutting off financing to competitive local exchange carriers and other start-up companies, he said. 

 "Right out of the box you had Circuit City (announce its news) and, combined with Apple's problems, people are starting to question techs again," said Jeff Matthews, general partner at Ram Partners. 

 Earlier Wednesday, Circuit City Stores Inc. said it expects a wider loss than previously anticipated for its Circuit City Group (CC) unit, citing lower than expected gross margins and sales, as well as higher costs related to store remodels in Florida. Shares of Circuit City were recently off 30%. 

 Early in the trading session Wednesday, large-cap tech stocks seemed to be taking most of the beating, while smaller tech offerings sustained gains from Tuesday's rally. 

 Matthews said it had a lot to do with short covering. "You have a day like yesterday where a lot of shorts got killed and they are covering all of a sudden," he said. "Things like I2 Technologies Inc. (ITWO) and Verisign Inc. (VRSN) are all of a sudden running and those kind of stocks tend to be less driven by fundamentals and more by supply and demand." 

 Short covering is the actual purchase of securities by a short seller to replace those borrowed at the time of the short sale. 

 Ackerman agreed that some small tech companies were doing better than their larger counterparts. For instance, Ackerman pointed to Liberate Technologies (LBRT), which is 40% owned by Oracle Corp. (ORCL). The stock was down in the $9 range after reaching a high of $148.50. But for the last three days it has traded up. "Some of the individual issues that were hit hard are coming back a bit based on better expectations," he added. 

 -By Christine Nuzum, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5172 

 -By Donna Fuscaldo, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5253 

Document dji0000020010805dwc605skw
?
 

 Visteon Profit Woes Seen Resulting In Layoffs, Closures 

 By Jocelyn Parker 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
790 words
6 December 2000
22:35
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 DETROIT -(Dow Jones)- Dwindling demand for new cars and trucks could result in layoffs and consolidation for auto parts maker Visteon Corp. (VC). 

 The company is undertaking a 30-day review of worldwide operations. And so far, Visteon hasn't ruled out those possibilities. 


"Every piece will be looked at," said spokeswoman Denise Bither.
   The review comes as the Dearborn, Mich., company warns of    an
earnings shortfall. Late Tuesday, Visteon said its fourth quarter
earnings will come in well below analyst expectations because of
production cuts at Ford Motor Co. (F).



Visteon expects to earn 35 cents a share for the quarter, but that
would be reduced to 20 cents if the company excludes a previously
announced gain on the sale of its interest in Conix.



The combined effect of lower earnings and a non-cash write-down
associated with its glass business will result in a net loss for the
quarter. Bither said the company isn't saying what the loss could be at
this point.



Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial estimated that
Visteon would earn 63 cents a share in the fourth quarter.



The company's profit warning sent its shares down as much as 27% in
intra-day trading on heavy volume Wednesday. Visteon shares closed at
$11.06, down $3.38, or 23.4% on volume of 5.3 million compared with
average daily volume of 713,000.



In recent weeks, analysts have been steadily lowering estimates for
parts makers across the board because of a recent slowdown in the auto
industry.



Ford and DaimlerChrysler AG (DCX) both said last week that they would
cut production and temporarily idle plants to address falling demand
from consumers and to cut inventory. Ford said that it plans to produce
1.07 million vehicles annually - 38,000 fewer than the company had
planned a month ago. That means suppliers will be shipping fewer parts
to auto makers and likely see lower profits.



Visteon is particularly vulnerable to a slowdown in the auto sector,
analysts say, because of its high exposure to Ford, its former parent,
and its low profit margins.



Before Visteon was spun off from Ford in June, Ford put a pricing
review into place and cut by 5% the prices it would pay for such items
as air conditioners, dashboards and electronics, which has eaten away at
Visteon's profitability. Moreover, as of the third quarter, Ford
accounted for 83% of Visteon's business.



Predicting Visteon's financial performance has also been tricky since
the company has no real track record, said Matthew Stover, an auto parts
analyst with Salomon Smith Barney.



Analysts say Visteon needs to reduce its hourly workforce and
consolidate or close some of its plants to improve its profitability.



"The magnitude of the shortfall was surprising, but when you really
think about it, it wasn't that surprising. I haven't seen any major
layoff announcement," said Darren Kimball, an auto parts analyst with
Lehman Brothers Inc.



Just two days ago, Kimball lowered his fourth quarter estimate for
Visteon by 18 cents to 45 cents a share, but in light of Tuesday's
announcement, that wasn't enough.



Visteon must eliminate some of its variable costs if the company hopes
to improve its performance. Reducing its hourly workforce could be part
of that, Kimball said.



But that won't be easy, Kimball added. Under Visteon's United Auto
Workers labor agreement, hourly workers would get about 95% of their pay
even if they are laid off, so it would be expensive for Visteon to cut
its workforce, he said.



So far, Visteon has addressed the softening industry by reducing
capital spending, implementing an immediate hiring freeze and
eliminating most production overtime.



"These actions can have an immediate effect on the bottom line," said
Visteon Chief Executive Peter Pestillo in a statement. He added, Mike
Johnston, Visteon's president, will undertake a 30-day review of
worldwide operations "with a goal of reducing structure, eliminating
redundancies and streamlining processes."



But, Stover said he wouldn't be surprised if that 30-day review
sparked a headcount reduction or closed facilities.



Stover also said he wouldn't be surprised to see more profit warnings
from parts makers in the coming weeks. In fact, Delphi Automotive
Systems Corp. (DPH) will meet in New York next week to discuss its 2001
business and financial outlook.



Stover said he expects estimates for Delphi to come down.



First Call's consensus of analysts estimate Delphi will earn 47 cents
a share in the fourth quarter, $2.06 for 2000 and $1.98 for 2001.



-By Jocelyn Parker, Dow Jones Newswires, 313-963-7810


Document dj00000020010805dwc604mho
?
 

 N.Y. Stocks Fail Again To Follow Through On Rally 

 By Robert O'Brien 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
1,376 words
6 December 2000
21:35
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- The Nasdaq Composite Index tarnished some of the luster of Tuesday's record-setting session by succumbing to another dreary round of profit pessimism in Wednesday's follow-up. 

 Shares of Intel lost $4.25 to stumble to $31.75, falling to a 52-week low, amid a new wave of pessimism about the semiconductor giant's profit performance. In a session fraught with rumors the company would guide earnings lower, Salomon Smith Barney injected a note of capitulation, saying that the fourth quarter shaped up as the company's worst quarter in more than a decade. 

 The Nasdaq Composite Index, up 274.05 points, or 10.48%, in Tuesday's glorious rally, finished Wednesday's trading with another now-routine loss, down 93.04, or 3.22%, at 2796.76. It marked the 12th time this year the composite index failed to finish higher in the trading day that followed a gain of 5% or more. 

 "You might have thought you saw signs the sentiment had changed with yesterday's rally," Tim Grazioso, manager of Nasdaq trading at Cantor Fitzgerald, said Wednesday. "But this has been a market that finds it impossible to keep the uptrend going for a couple days at a time. It's really doing some damage to investor psychology." 

 The Dow Jones Industrial Average suffered a steep loss of its own, down 233.59 points, or 2.14%, at 10665.13, thanks to steep declines in computer makers. Shares of International Business Machines lost 6.63 to 96.75, after Credit Suisse First Boston chopped its earnings forecasts for the computer giant, as well as for Dell Computer, which sustained a drop of 2.25 to close at 18, after marking a 52-week low. 

 Technology stocks weren't the only victims of profit pessimism in the session. Shares of Bank of America lost 3.19 to 38, reaching their low for the last 52 weeks, on a warning of weaker profits at the bank. 

 The final Dow Jones Industrial Average close was 10664.38, down 234.34. On the New York Stock Exchange, there were 1,226 issues advancing, 1,674 declining and 428 unchanged. 

 NYSE volume totaled 1,356,854,250 shares, compared with 1,388,407,490 Wednesday. 

 The NYSE Composite Index was 645.72, down 7.55. The average price per share fell 45 cents. 

 Analysts worried that other banks exposed to deteriorating credit quality would have to revisit their earnings assumptions. First Union, for example, lost 1.50 to sink to 24, and traded at a 52-week low intraday, after CIBC World Markets warned that it expected analysts to have to lower their forecasts for the banking giant's profits. Ditto for Bank One, which slipped 1.06 to 34.38, CIBC said. 

 Among banks, Citigroup declined 1 to 49.75, J.P. Morgan declined 2.75 to 148.88, and Chase Manhattan fell 1.25 to 40.06, while brokers such as Lehman Brothers, down 1.38 to 56.69, and Bear Stearns, off 1.13 to 48.25, also retreated. 

 The group had thrived in Tuesday's rally, as investors interpreted some comments from Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, as an indication that interest rates could be headed lower. With no new iteration of that one bright spot for the market, the market found itself again in thrall of earnings worries. 

 Hardly surprisingly, the biggest fallout from profit weakness took place in high technology. Shares of Apple Computer slid to a 52-week low, dropping 2.69 to 14.31 on Nasdaq, after the PC maker warned late Tuesday that it would miss expectations for the December quarter by a wide margin. 

 Meanwhile, another computer giant, Hewlett-Packard, acknowledged that PC sales on the retail level won't be as robust in its 2001 fiscal year as they were in 2000. The stock declined 3 to 32, nearing the 52-week low of 30.50 from Nov. 30. 

 Investors interpreted the weakness in the outlook for PCs as a trial for software developers, and sent shares of Adobe Systems down 9.50 to 67.19 on Nasdaq. Microsoft lost 3.19 to 56.69 on Nasdaq, and Veritas Software, which jumped 21% Tuesday, slid 10.13 to 112.06, also on Nasdaq. 

 Motorola declined 1.19 to 17.81, falling to a 52-week low, after Lehman Brothers cut its estimate for industrywide mobile phone handset sales, the third time the firm has lowered its sales estimate for the industry. Shares of Ericsson, the Finnish handset manufacturer, eased 31 cents to 13.31, though Nokia managed to hold its own, finishing unchanged at 51.38, after improving 15% Tuesday. 

 Juniper Networks lost 15.70 to 140.30 on Nasdaq. Ericsson sold about 10.4 million shares of the Mountain View, Calif., Internet software developer that it purchased before Juniper went public, as part of the companies' plans for a new mobile Internet joint venture. 

 Diamond Technology Partners shed 11.06 to 28.44 on Nasdaq, sinking to a 52-week low. Lehman Brothers cut its earnings estimates for the Chicago provider of management consulting services' 2002 fiscal year, and lowered its 12-month price target on the stock. 

 Among the technology gainers, shares of Celestica added 3.19 to 62.81. The Canadian contract electronics manufacturer reached an agreement to supply Motorola more than $1 billion of services over three years. 

 Shares of rival electronics manufacturer Flextronics, which has an agreement to supply Motorola, fell 2.44 to 29.88 in Nasdaq trading. 

 Inktomi gained 3.56 to 38 on Nasdaq, extending Tuesday's gains, when the stock rose 57%. The Foster City, Calif., networking software developer reached an agreement with Hughes Electronics under which Hughes Network Systems will deploy Inktomi caching technology in its network centers. Thomas Weisel Partners made some upbeat comments about Inktomi's outlook, saying it remains the firm's favorite name in Internet infrastructure. 

 Hughes Electronics finished 1.50 lower at 24.15. 

 Vitesse Semiconductor gained 2.88 to 59.13 on Nasdaq. Standard & Poor's said it would add shares of the Camarillo, Calif., communications chip maker to its S&P 500 Index after the close of trading Monday, and also named QLogic, which added 1.69 to 108.06 on Nasdaq, and Stryker, which rose 2.07 to 54, to the index. 

 Stocks exposed to the rising prices for natural gas gained ground in the session. Shares of Apache added 3.56 to 57.25, while Anadarko Petroleum moved ahead 3.79 to 62.80. ABN AMRO increased its forecast for natural gas prices for 2000 and 2001. During the session, trading on the Nymex in natural gas futures for January delivery reached a contract high of $8.80 per thousand cubic feet. 

 Dow Jones fell 5.88 to 53.44. The New York publishing and media concern, which publishes this newswire, warned this it wouldn't live up to earnings expectations in the fourth quarter, citing what it described as soft demand for advertising. 

 New York Times gained 3.06 to 39.88. The publishing and media concern said it expected to live up to Wall Street's profit targets for 2000. 

 Circuit City declined 3.13 to 9.63, sinking to a 52-week low. The Richmond, Va., consumer electronics retailer reported weaker-than-expected third-quarter results, including declining sales in its consumer-electronics operations, prompting CIBC World Markets to cut its rating on the stock to hold from buy. 

 Visteon lost 3.38 to 11.06. The Dearborn, Mich., automotive systems supplier warned that its fourth-quarter earnings won't be as strong as analysts had anticipated. The outlook came on the heels of cautious guidance on profits from auto maker Ford Motor last week. Ford shares eased 88 cents to 23.88 Wednesday. 

 Comverse Technology moved higher intraday following the Woodbury, N.Y., communications network developer's report late Tuesday of better-than-expected third-quarter results, but gains faded into the close, leaving the stock down 3.50 to 95.50 on Nasdaq. 

5042

Document dj00000020010805dwc604mbo
?
 

 Visteon Down 27% On Goldman's Lower Estimate, Downgrade  

 By Jocelyn Parker  
457 words
6 December 2000
16:55
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)  

 of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES  

 DETROIT -(Dow Jones)- Goldman Sachs lowered earnings estimates and cut its rating for Visteon Corp. (VC) because of production cuts at Ford Motor Co. (F) and because of Visteon's own profit warning.  

 The news sent shares of Visteon down 27% on heavy trading volume Wednesday.  

 In a research report issued Wednesday, Goldman Sachs auto analyst Gary Lapidus lowered Visteon's 2000 earnings-per-share estimate by 31 cents, to $2.77 a share and cut his 2001 estimate by $1.10, to $2 a share. He also lowered Visteon's rating to market performer from the U.S. recommended list.  

 Lapidus' report comes on the heels of Visteon's announcement Tuesday that its fourth-quarter earnings will fall below analyst expectations. Visteon said it expects to earn of 35 cents a share for the quarter, and 20 cents a share excluding a previously announced gain on the sale of its interest in Conix, Lapidus said.  

 Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial estimated Visteon will make 63 cents a share.  

 Lapidus said Visteon's profit warning is out of sync with Ford's planned production cuts.  

 "The operating EPS is 31 cents below our estimate and 46 cents below consensus," Lapidus said in the report. "Most importantly, it's a reduction that seems out of proportion to Ford's announced fourth-quarter production cut of 45,000 units (a 4% cut)."  

 Lapidus estimates Visteon's fourth-quarter operating margin will be 1.1%, well below the third-quarter margin.  

 "The numbers just don't seem to pencil," Lapidus added.  

 It's likely that Visteon is coming up well short of its 2000 cost reduction target of $450 million, Lapidus said. Moreover, Visteon's improved product mix has been hurt by unfavorable exchange rates since much of the non-Ford business is outside the United States, Lapidus said.  

 "It's possible that pricing on Ford business may be more onerous than previously believed, although content per Ford vehicle is only down about $50 sequentially," Lapidus said. "The delayed (Ford) Explorer is also impacting margin."  

 Lapidus also said he's no longer comfortable making a valuation-based recommendation on Visteon because he isn't sure what the company's return on capital will be in the future.  

 In addition, Lapidus said the chance of a stock buyback is now reduced because earnings and cash flow expectations have been reduced.  

 Shares of Visteon traded at $10.50 recently, down $3.88, or 26.8%, on volume of 2.3 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange. Average daily volume is 711,293 shares.  

 -By Jocelyn Parker, Dow Jones Newswires, 313-963-7810  

Document dj00000020010805dwc604lmm
?
 

 WSJ.COM WRAP: Dow Jones Issues  Profit Warning  >DJ NYT 

620 words
6 December 2000
16:10
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   WSJ.com News Roundup



NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)-  Dow Jones & Co. (DJ) on Wednesday warned that
fourth-quarter profit will fall short of analysts' expectations amid
weaker demand for advertising at its flagship publication, The Wall
Street Journal. Meanwhile, New York Times Co. (NYT) said it has seen
some softening in the advertising revenues but is comfortable with
earnings forecasts.


 Dow Jones expects to earn 83 cents a share to 86 cents a share in the period, before special items. Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial expected the company to post earnings of 92 cents a share. 

 Dow Jones said advertising linage at The Wall Street Journal dropped 11.9% on a per-issue basis in November. There were 21 issues of the newspaper published in November, the same as in the year-earlier period. 

 General-advertising linage at the Journal declined 10.9% in November, while financial-advertising linage fell 16.2%. Classified and other linage fell 5.9%. 

 Actual ad linage and linage per issue at The Wall Street Journal Europe fell 4.2% in November. But the Asian Wall Street Journal saw ad linage rise 6.7% on an actual and per-issue basis. 

 In a brief statement accompanying advertising figures Dow Jones's only explanation for its adjusted earnings forecast was that it has seen a "softening in demand for advertising, and the continuation of these trends in December." The news release was faxed to reporters but wasn't immediately available on news-release wires or the company's Web site. Dow Jones officials also spoke at an investors conference Wednesday. 

 The drop in demand appears to be more substantial than the company had expected. When Dow Jones commented on third-quarter earnings in October, it said it anticipated "a very modest decline" in fourth-quarter ad linage at the Journal. Last quarter, growth in advertising volume slowed for the Journal, rising a mere 4.5% compared with a 27% gain a year earlier. 

 Dow Jones also publishes Dow Jones Newswires, WSJ.com, Dow Jones Indexes, Barron's, SmartMoney, which is jointly produced with Hearst Corp.; dowjones.com and the Ottaway group of community newspapers. In addition, it is co-owner with Excite@Home of Work.com, and with NBC of the CNBC television operations in Asia and Europe. The company also provides news content to CNBC in the U.S. 


       New York Times Expects to Hit Target



Meanwhile, New York Times reported slower ad revenue growth but said
it is "confident" it will report earnings per share, excluding items, of
$2.08 to $2.10 for fiscal 2000, in line with Wall Street's estimates.



The media company also said it expects to achieve 10% to 15%
earnings-per-share growth in fiscal 2001. That's at least in line with,
if not better than, the $2.29 a share forecast by analysts.



"With the continued strength in national advertising, we expect
advertising-revenue growth for 2000 to be between 8.5% and 9.5% for the
newspaper group," which excludes seven regional papers and nine
telephone directories that were sold in the second half as well as the
Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Russell T. Lewis, the company's president
and chief executive, said in a written statement.



The company, which publishes the New York Times, as well as other
newspapers and magazines and operates television and radio stations,
also reported pro-forma advertising revenues at its newspaper operations
increased 3% in November. That is down from a 14.8% jump in the
year-earlier month.



(For continuously updated news from The Wall Street Journal, see
WSJ.com at
http://wsj.com.)


Document dj00000020010805dwc604lk1
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Nardelli Getting Nice Street Reception 

1,066 words
6 December 2000
14:45
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



9:43 (Dow Jones) For a guy who doesn't have a retail background,
former GE Power head Nardelli is getting a nice welcome from analysts as
he gets set to settle into Home Depot's (HD) top spot. Goldman and UBS
have upgraded the shares, which are up 5%, easily the biggest gainer
among DJIA components. (TG)



9:37 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps and Nasdaq become front month on Thursday,
the CME says, as the market prepares for the Dec. contract's expiration.
(DMC)



9:32 (Dow Jones) Dec. S&Ps and Nasdaq start weaker, finding mild
pressure from overnight weakness. Poor earnings news from Apple weighs
on the market. Floor based traders say they expect profit taking to be
the main feature in early dealings. "Given the gains we saw yesterday,
that's only to be expected," one trader says. (DMC)



9:31 (Dow Jones) Spread widening in ailing chemical sector has created
buying opportunities for bond investors, with Eastman Chemical (EMN) and
Praxair (PX) offering best value, says Bear Stearns. (DA)



9:25 (Dow Jones) David Letterman fans would appreciate Bear Stearns
analyst Andy Neff's take on what Apple Computer (AAPL) could do to
turnaround the company. Addressing the question: What Can Steve Jobs do
here?, Neff said among other things, Apple could go private, open retail
stores, introduce a handheld device, hope the Mac OS X saves the day,
sell the company, or leak that it is in talks to sell and exit hardware
and become a software company. The best option for Jobs, give back the
plane the company gave him in January. (DLF)



9:21 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch analyst Henry Blodget cut his Yahoo
(YHOO) earnings and revenue estimates for the first half of 2001, but
raised his views for the second half. His full-year projections remain
the same, and he kept his "buy" rating on the shares, with a year-end
price target of $60. Blodget says the first quarter will be the
"toughest quarter for online advertising," with overall market growth of
10%. He sees growth accelerating throughout the year. (PDL)



9:17 (Dow Jones) If Tuesday's rally meant the start of something
really meaningful, says John Roque of Arnhold & S. Bleichroeder,
advancing/declining volume would have been a lot more impressive.
Yesterday's 5.5:1 ratio was good, but not great. He says Nasdaq has room
to roam to 3150/3200, but says Nasdaq will retest the 2600/2500 area.
"We just think that happens later rather than sooner." (TG)



9:07 (Dow Jones) Uncertainty over Viacom's (VIA) asbestos liability,
stemming from its discontinued operation Westinghouse, has Bear Stearns
cautious on the company. Viacom bonds widened 50-68 bp over last 2
weeks. (DA)



9:03 (Dow Jones) Dan Niles of Lehman Brothers says Apple's (AAPL)
"monstrous" shortfall is largely industry related, with some poor
product positioning as well. Niles remains cautious on the stock given
what he sees as increasingly difficult PC environment. (TG)



8:55 (Dow Jones) Some Treasury participants are warning that there
could be a bit of profit taking in the market today after the solid run
Tuesday, and technical indications point to an overbought market. Still,
some argue, it's likely to take some surprise number, most likely from
Friday's jobs report, to put in play the next big market move. (MSD)



8:48 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD and USD/JPY are stable after downgrade of
third quarter U.S. productivity. EUR/USD is at $0.8833 while USD/JPY is
at Y110.79. (CSE)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Consider this stat, courtesy of Jeff deGraaf at
Lehman: of the 20 largest one-day percentage gains on Nasdaq over the
past 20 years, a remarkable 12 have occurred since the March 2000 peak.
"Big momentum days are often counter-trend in nature," he says.
Dismissing stampede momentum as reactionary when it is genuine change in
market dynamics can be disasterous, but he doesn't believe we're out of
the woods yet. (TG)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Tuesday's wildfire rally aside, the market
downturn/slower economy is showing up in ad trends. We've seen it on the
Internet, with Doubleclick (DCLK) having to lay off staff, and it's
happening in print, too, as a warning from Dow Jones (DJ) shows. DJ, the
publisher of this newswire, says ad linage at The Wall Street Journal
was off 11.9% in Nov., cause for the company to revise 4Q estimates to
83-86c vs. First Call 92c. Expect Other publishers to see ad softening,
too. We'll hear from the big ones later when they present at media
confabs in NYC today. (GC)



8:36 (Dow Jones) The downward revision in third-quarter production is
having little immediate effect on the Treasurys curve, after the
market's very solid gains yesterday. The 10-year note is up 4/32 to
yield 5.41%. For many traders, the data may be old news after
Greenspan's dovish talk Tuesday. (MSD)



8:34 (Dow Jones) Nonfarm productivity growth in 3Q was revised to an
annual rate of 3.3% from an initial estimate of 3.8% and unit labor cost
- the difference between hourly compensation and productivity - was
revised to 2.9% from 2.5%. These are both slightly adverse, though
productivity growth is well in excess of the 1973-95 trend. Unit labor
cost is a bit high for comfort. (JM)



8:30 (Dow Jones) It looks like stocks will take a bit of a breather
early, though that's not too troubling given Tuesday's record-filled
session. What would be more irksome is a bigger selloff that serves to
delegitimize those big gains. Apple Computer (AAPL) isn't helping, off
big time after hours on the heels of another weak outlook. Circuit City
(CC) this morning came out with some less-than-inspiring numbers. Big
Hewlett-Packard (HWP) meeting this morning, Beige Book released later.
As for the market, from a technical slant the intermediate trend remains
down, despite Tuesday's great gains. To change that, it's going to take
some follow through. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc604ldt
?
 

 MARKET TALK: Apple Holders May Not Be In Laughing Mood 

892 words
6 December 2000
14:27
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



9:25 (Dow Jones) David Letterman fans would appreciate Bear Stearns
analyst Andy Neff's take on what Apple Computer (AAPL) could do to
turnaround the company. Addressing the question: What Can Steve Jobs do
here?, Neff said among other things, Apple could go private, open retail
stores, introduce a handheld device, hope the Mac OS X saves the day,
sell the company, or leak that it is in talks to sell and exit hardware
and become a software company. The best option for Jobs, give back the
plane the company gave him in January. (DLF)



9:21 (Dow Jones) Merrill Lynch analyst Henry Blodget cut his Yahoo
(YHOO) earnings and revenue estimates for the first half of 2001, but
raised his views for the second half. His full-year projections remain
the same, and he kept his "buy" rating on the shares, with a year-end
price target of $60. Blodget says the first quarter will be the
"toughest quarter for online advertising," with overall market growth of
10%. He sees growth accelerating throughout the year. (PDL)



9:17 (Dow Jones) If Tuesday's rally meant the start of something
really meaningful, says John Roque of Arnhold & S. Bleichroeder,
advancing/declining volume would have been a lot more impressive.
Yesterday's 5.5:1 ratio was good, but not great. He says Nasdaq has room
to roam to 3150/3200, but says Nasdaq will retest the 2600/2500 area.
"We just think that happens later rather than sooner." (TG)



9:07 (Dow Jones) Uncertainty over Viacom's (VIA) asbestos liability,
stemming from its discontinued operation Westinghouse, has Bear Stearns
cautious on the company. Viacom bonds widened 50-68 bp over last 2
weeks. (DA)



9:03 (Dow Jones) Dan Niles of Lehman Brothers says Apple's (AAPL)
"monstrous" shortfall is largely industry related, with some poor
product positioning as well. Niles remains cautious on the stock given
what he sees as increasingly difficult PC environment. (TG)



8:55 (Dow Jones) Some Treasury participants are warning that there
could be a bit of profit taking in the market today after the solid run
Tuesday, and technical indications point to an overbought market. Still,
some argue, it's likely to take some surprise number, most likely from
Friday's jobs report, to put in play the next big market move. (MSD)



8:48 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD and USD/JPY are stable after downgrade of
third quarter U.S. productivity. EUR/USD is at $0.8833 while USD/JPY is
at Y110.79. (CSE)



8:45 (Dow Jones) Consider this stat, courtesy of Jeff deGraaf at
Lehman: of the 20 largest one-day percentage gains on Nasdaq over the
past 20 years, a remarkable 12 have occurred since the March 2000 peak.
"Big momentum days are often counter-trend in nature," he says.
Dismissing stampede momentum as reactionary when it is genuine change in
market dynamics can be disasterous, but he doesn't believe we're out of
the woods yet. (TG)



8:39 (Dow Jones) Tuesday's wildfire rally aside, the market
downturn/slower economy is showing up in ad trends. We've seen it on the
Internet, with Doubleclick (DCLK) having to lay off staff, and it's
happening in print, too, as a warning from Dow Jones (DJ) shows. DJ, the
publisher of this newswire, says ad linage at The Wall Street Journal
was off 11.9% in Nov., cause for the company to revise 4Q estimates to
83-86c vs. First Call 92c. Expect Other publishers to see ad softening,
too. We'll hear from the big ones later when they present at media
confabs in NYC today. (GC)



8:36 (Dow Jones) The downward revision in third-quarter production is
having little immediate effect on the Treasurys curve, after the
market's very solid gains yesterday. The 10-year note is up 4/32 to
yield 5.41%. For many traders, the data may be old news after
Greenspan's dovish talk Tuesday. (MSD)



8:34 (Dow Jones) Nonfarm productivity growth in 3Q was revised to an
annual rate of 3.3% from an initial estimate of 3.8% and unit labor cost
- the difference between hourly compensation and productivity - was
revised to 2.9% from 2.5%. These are both slightly adverse, though
productivity growth is well in excess of the 1973-95 trend. Unit labor
cost is a bit high for comfort. (JM)



8:30 (Dow Jones) It looks like stocks will take a bit of a breather
early, though that's not too troubling given Tuesday's record-filled
session. What would be more irksome is a bigger selloff that serves to
delegitimize those big gains. Apple Computer (AAPL) isn't helping, off
big time after hours on the heels of another weak outlook. Circuit City
(CC) this morning came out with some less-than-inspiring numbers. Big
Hewlett-Packard (HWP) meeting this morning, Beige Book released later.
As for the market, from a technical slant the intermediate trend remains
down, despite Tuesday's great gains. To change that, it's going to take
some follow through. (TG)


80000

Document dj00000020010805dwc604lcn
?
 

 UPDATE 1-3Com says Q2 sales, net to be lower than forecasts. 

 By Duncan Martell 
574 words
5 December 2000
01:16
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 SAN FRANCISCO, Dec 4 (Reuters) - Becoming the latest high-technology company to issue a grim profit forecast, data networking firm 3Com Corp. on Monday warned of lower-than-expected sales and earnings in the second quarter, citing widespread sluggishness in the telcoms industry. 

 The company's president and chief operating officer, Bruce Claflin, also said it was clear to him that the overall economy was slowing somewhat, though not enough to warrant a recession or anything nearly so perilous. 

 "We see all of the broad economic indicators and they suggest we could see some softening in the U.S. economy," Claflin said on a conference call. "There clearly is a softening in what I call the ebullience of the past few quarters" in terms of U.S. economic growth. 

 The disappointing announcement sent 3Com stock plunging to $9-1/2 in after-hours trading. The stock had risen 7/16 to close on Nasdaq at $13-3/8 in regular U.S. trading, before the profit warning. 

 The company said that excluding exited product lines, 3Com's ongoing businesses are expected to result in a pro-forma loss per share of 19 cents a share to 23 cents a share, compared with earlier company guidance of a loss of 7 cents to 9 cents. Sales will be $785 million to $800 million, below the $870 million and $910 million the company had previously forecast. 

 The consensus analyst forecast for 3Com is for a loss of 8 cents a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Santa Clara, Calif.-based 3Com becomes the latest in a litany of high-technology companies that have cautioned of flagging sales and profits. Among them: No. 4 U.S. personal computer maker Gateway Inc., chipmakers Altera Corp. and Xilinx Inc. to name a few. 

 Indeed, on Friday, First Call/Thomson Financial said that analysts had slashed almost in half during the past two months estimates for fourth-quarter earnings growth in the high-technology industry. Since Oct. 1, earnings growth expectations for the tech sector have tumbled to 14 percent from 29 percent for the fourth quarter 2000. 

 The first quarter of 2001 fared little better: analysts now expect, on average, high-tech profit growth to be 14 percent, half the 28 percent earlier forecast. By comparison, growth estimates for fourth-quarter Standard & Poor's 500 have dropped to 10 percent from 15.6 percent since Oct. 1, First Call said. 

 3Com said that a number of customers were delaying purchases as a result of internal reorganizations and difficulty in financing. AT&T Corp. is breaking up yet again, this time into four different units, Verizon Communications has called off its proposed acquisition of NorthPoint Communications Group Inc. and MCI Worldcom is undertaking its own restructuring. 

 As a result, second-quarter sales for the carrier networking business were about $95 million to $100 million, a decline of 40 percent from the immediately preceding quarter ended Sept. 1 and a decline of about 30 percent from the year-ago second quarter. 

 Excluding sales from businesses it's getting out of, 3Com's sales in the commercial and consumer networks business were about $670 million and $685 million, a 5 percent to 7 percent increase over the first quarter. 

 "The problems in telecommunications are unlikely to improve markedly in the third quarter," Claflin said. 

Document lba0000020010821dwc50bdrl
?
 

 UPDATE 2-Apple warns of disappointing sales, loss. 

 By Peter Henderson 
661 words
5 December 2000
23:22
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 SAN FRANCISCO, Dec 5 (Reuters) - Apple Computer Inc. warned on Tuesday that it would post its first quarterly operating loss in three years as sales fell far short of expectations, becoming the second major personal computer maker to warn that holiday sales were slow. 

 "The swift industry-wide decline in PC sales will result in Apple's first non-profitable quarter in three years," Chief Executive Steve Jobs said in a statement. 

 "We're confident we will return to sustained profitability next quarter," Jobs added. 

 Sharply cutting already reduced expectations, Apple said it expected to post revenue of about $1 billion and a net loss, excluding investment gains, of between $225 million and $250 million, when it reports its first fiscal quarter results Jan. 17. 

 Analysts had expected the company to post revenues of about $1.6 billion and a profit of 3 cents a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. In last year's first quarter, Apple reported a first quarter profit of 50 cents a share, adjusted for a later stock split. 

 Apple stock tumbled more than 20 percent in extended hours trading after the warning. 

 The stock of the Cupertino, Calif.-based company fell to $13-1/2 on the Instinet electronic brokerage, down from a regular session close of $17. 

 The warning from Apple followed one last week from No. 4 U.S. personal computer maker Gateway Inc., which said its fourth quarter sales and profits would fall far short of Wall Street estimates due to slack holiday sales. Gateway said at the time that sluggish consumer sales could spark a price war in the New Year. 

 "It has become increasingly apparent that the market for personal computers has slowed well beyond our earlier expectations," Apple's Chief Financial Officer Fred Anderson said on a conference call. 

 Citing lower-than-expected personal computer sales and discount pricing, Apple said it expected fiscal 2001 revenues at $6 billion to $6.5 billion. 

 "What we see is tremendous amounts (of promotional sales globally) - a lot of aggressive competition at the price level," Anderson said. 

 When it reported its fourth quarter earnings in October, Apple reduced revenue estimates for the first quarter ending in December to about $1.6 billion, and was targeting a "slight profit." Before the October warning, analysts had been expecting a first quarter profit of 45 cents a share. 

 The company already had cut its revenue target in October for the fiscal year 2001 to the $7.5 billion to $8 billion range, compared with analyst estimates of $8.97 billion. 

 "It's qualitatively not a surprise, because Apple has the most exposure to consumer retail. But the expected revenue base was already taken down sharply, so cutting that by another 1/2 billion is pretty dramatic. The size of the adjustment is a surprise,." said SG Cowen analyst Richard Chu. 

 Jobs said the loss would be Apple's first non-profitable quarter since he returned to the company in 1997. Apple had lost about $1.8 billion over two years before it reported a fiscal first quarter profit in January of 1998. 

 "We were simply not prepared to be hit with three problems simultaneously. First, Apple-specific problems of our own making which we are aggressively addressing. Two, a now widely acknowledged PC slowdown, and three, a worldwide economic slowdown," Jobs said on the conference call. 

 "The result of these combined issues will be the first non-profitable quarter since I returned to Apple," Jobs said. 

 "I'm not proud of this, but I do want to point out that much of this is due to our unwavering commitment to reduce our channel inventories to normal levels by the end of this quarter so we can enter calendar year 2001 clean," he said. 

 Jobs said he was "confident Apple can weather the cycle and possibly come out the other end stronger for it." 

Document lba0000020010821dwc50b2jc
?
 

 UPDATE 1-Apple warns of disappointing sales, loss. 

364 words
5 December 2000
22:36
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 SAN FRANCISCO, Dec 5 (Reuters) - Apple Computer Inc. warned on Tuesday that it would post its first quarterly operating loss in three years as sales fell far short of expectations, becoming the second major personal computer maker to warn that holiday sales were slow. 

 "The swift industry-wide decline in PC sales will result in Apple's first non-profitable quarter in three years," Chief Executive Steve Jobs said in a statement. 

 Sharply cutting already reduced expectations, Apple said it expected to post revenue of about $1 billion and a net loss, excluding investment gains, of between $225 million and $250 million, when it reports actual first fiscal quarter results on Jan. 17. 

 Analysts had expected the company to post revenues of about $1.6 billion and a profit of 3 cents a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 The warning from Apple followed one last week from Gateway Inc., which said its fourth quarter sales and profits would fall far short of Wall Street estimates due to slack holiday sales. 

 Citing lower-than-expected personal computer sales and discount pricing, Apple said it expected fiscal 2001 revenues at $6 billion to $6.5 billion. 

 "It has become increasingly apparent that the market for personal computers has slowed well beyond our earlier expectations," Apple's Chief Financial Officer Fred Anderson said on a conference call. 

 When it reported its fourth quarter earnings in October, Apple reduced revenue estimates for the first quarter ending in December to about $1.6 billion, and was targeting a "slight profit." Before the October warning, analysts had been expecting a first quarter profit of 45 cents a share. 

 The company already had cut its revenue target in October for the fiscal year 2001 to the $7.5 billion to $8 billion range, compared with analyst estimates of $8.97 billion. 

 "It's qualitatively not a surprise, because Apple has the most exposure to consumer retail. But the expected revenue base was already taken down sharply, so cutting that by another 1/2 billion is pretty dramatic. The size of the adjustment is a surprise,." said SG Cowen analyst Richard Chu. 

Document lba0000020010821dwc50b1n0
?
 

BUSINESS
Disappointing Sales Drop 3Com Shares 25 Percent

Todd Wallack; Chronicle Staff Writer   
468 words
5 December 2000
The San Francisco Chronicle
SFC
FINAL
C1
English
Copyright 2000. Hearst Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

3Com shares lost more than a quarter of their value in late trading yesterday after the Santa Clara company became the latest high-tech firm hurt by a slowdown in telecommunications equipment spending.

Citing preliminary data, 3Com said it probably took in between $785 million and $800 million in revenue for the second fiscal quarter ended Dec. 1, less than the $870 million to $910 million it projected in September. In addition, the company lost between 19 cents and 23 cents per share, more than the 7-to-9- cent loss it expected.

3Com, which had struggled for years to keep up with neighboring Cisco Systems in the corporate networking market, recently narrowed its focus to several markets, including telecom equipment. The company was counting on fast- growing sales in those markets to become profitable again.

"The turnaround story has been derailed," Edward Jones & Co. analyst Dave Powers told Bloomberg News. "Every time you think they're back on track, they find a way to steer off course."

3Com shares rose 44 cents to $13.38 in regular trading on the Nasdaq but plunged to $9.75 in after-hours trading following the profit warning. The company plans a formal earnings report after the close of trading on Dec. 21.

Other telecom firms, including Lucent Technologies and Nortel Networks, have also been hampered by an industry slowdown. Lucent's stock is down 78 percent and Nortel's is off 28 percent this year.

Several large customers, like AT&T, WorldCom and others, have pared spending, in part because of falling revenue in the long-distance business and the fact that they are busy restructuring their businesses.

In addition, some smaller upstarts, such as DSL providers NorthPoint Communications and Covad Communications, have cut back on investments because of their flagging stock prices and troubles raising additional funding.

Cisco, the San Jose computer networking giant, has also focused increasingly on serving telecom firms, like SBC Communications, sparking concerns that it could be dragged down as well. Thus far, Cisco's revenues and earnings have continued to exceed analysts' estimates by a narrow margin.

In 3Com's case, the company said it believes revenue in its telecom division declined 40 percent from the previous sequential quarter and 30 percent from the same period a year ago. 3Com said sales for its Carrier Networking Business will likely fall between $95 million and $100 million when last quarter's results are final.

In addition, 3Com said it has also been hampered by a shortage of components for non-telecom-related products, such as network interface cards -- which let PCs talk to other computers -- and a variety of other products.

E-mail Todd Wallack at twallack@sfchronicle.com.

Document SFC0000020120703dwc5006sg
?
 

Market Action
 Financial Post Investing 
 3Com reels after  profit warning 

 Thomas Hirschmann 
Financial Post, with files from news services
441 words
5 December 2000
National Post
FINP
National
D02
English
 (c) National Post 2000. All Rights Reserved. 

 3Com Corp. (COMS/NASDAQ), up 7/16 to US$13 3/8, on volume of 4.1 million shares. 

 After the market closed 3Com issued a profit warning for the second quarter, saying it expected a net loss of US19 cents to US23 cents a share. Its original guidance was in the US7 cents to US9 cents range. 

 When after-hours trading resumed following the announcement, the stock immediately fell 25% to trade around US$10. 

 The company also said revenue would be light, in the US$765-million to US$780-million range, down from the US$870-million to US$910-million forecast offered in September. It will release its results on Dec. 21. 

 --- 

 Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO/NASDAQ), down US$2 11/16 to US$45 13/16, on volume of 114.1 shares. 

 The market was unwilling to bank on bullish sentiment coming out of Cisco at an analyst meeting, although there was a hubbub of activity surrounding the stock. 

 John Chambers, chief executive of Cisco, said that the Internet equipment company stands by its aggressive growth targets. Declaring the slowing U.S. economy a "breakaway opportunity," Mr. Chambers said Cisco plans to increase its investments, and possibly even its rate of acquiring companies. 

 --- 

 Rogers Wireless Communications Inc. (RCMb/TSE), down $2.60 to $20.60, on volume of 25,284 shares. 

 The stock was the worst-performing stock on the Toronto Stock Exchange 300 index despite being offered support by Jeffrey Hines, an analyst at Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown. Mr. Hines maintained his "buy" recommendation, but the stock slipped 11% lower on the day. 

 --- 

 Dimethaid Research Inc. (DMX/TSE), up 75 cents to $8.50, on volume of 502,033 shares. 

 The stock maintained its upward trajectory a week after its ointment for osteoarthritis was approved in the U.K. The stock has risen 120% since a six-month low of $3.85 was hit on Nov. 23. 

 --- 

 General Motors Corp. (GM/ NYSE), up US$1 1/4 to US$51 9/16, on volume of 2.6 million shares. 

 Banc of America dealt GM shares a blow yesterday, but they shook off the downgrade. Ron Tadross, an analyst at the U.S. brokerage, cut GM to "market performer" from "buy" and cut his price target to US$50 a share from US$65. He said that November sales showed GM lost 1.4% of market share, an acceleration from the 0.8% year-to-date rate and "a pace we cannot ignore." 

thirschmann@nationalpost.com

Document finp000020010806dwc500vqw
?
 

 Apple Warns 1st-Quarter Sales Will Fall Well Short of Expectations 

424 words
5 December 2000
22:03
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 CUPERTINO, Calif. -- Apple Computer Inc. warned profit and revenue for its current fiscal first quarter will be "substantially below expectations" because of slow sales in October and November amid an industry-wide decline. 

 The warning was issued after the close of regular trading Tuesday. Apple's shares rose 31 cents to $17 in 4 p.m. EST trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market. In after-hours trading, the stock fell 15% to $14.50. 

 Apple expects to report revenue of about $1 billion and a loss, excluding investment gains, of between $225 million and $250 million. The company previously had projected revenue of $1.6 billion and a slight profit. Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial expected a profit of three cents a share for the quarter, which ends Dec. 30. 

 "We're not happy about it, and plan to return to sustained profitability next quarter," Chief Executive Steve Jobs said in a prepared statement. 

 Apple said the revenue shortfall came amid weak sales world-wide and unplanned sales promotions and markdowns. The company also lowered its fiscal 2001 revenue projection to the range of $6 billion to $6.5 billion from the previous range of $7.5 billion to $8 billion. 

 The warning is just the latest bad news for Apple investors, who have seen their stock hammered in recent months. In October, Apple missed lowered expectations for fiscal fourth-quarter earnings and cut profit targets for fiscal 2001, warning investors that the fiscal first quarter would also disappoint as the computer maker worked to remedy sales shortfalls. 

 During a conference call with anlaysts and investors, Chief Financial Officer Fred Anderson said PC demand slowed beyond expectations. "We exited the September quarter with channel inventory at eight weeks of projected demand and stated the objective to bring the channel inventory to a more normal level," he said. "Sell through channel inventory trended below original  forecasts in all regions and the channel inventory now represents about 11 weeks of demand based on the sell-through rates in October and November." Mr. Anderson said Apple is committed to returning inventory to a normal level. 

 Mr. Jobs said the company wasn't prepared for three major problems simultaneously, referring to the industry-wide slowdown, less-than-expected sales of products in the sales channel and the unplanned markdowns. Mr. Jobs said sales of its G4 Cube computer have stabilized to a "respectable level." 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dwc501omv
?
 

 Ford Says It Will Be Fit Enough To Weather Sales Drop-Off in 2001 

 By Joseph B. White 
485 words
5 December 2000
20:07
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 

 DEARBORN, Mich. -- Ford Motor Co. Chief Executive Jacques Nasser said he expects U.S. vehicle sales in 2001 to ease to about 16.5 million vehicles, but he expressed confidence Ford will weather the slowdown in good shape. 

 Ford last week issued a warning that its fourth-quarter profit would be about 75 cents a share, or 10 cents below previous Wall Street forecasts. Mr. Nasser wouldn't comment on projections for the first quarter or all of 2001. Analysts are projecting earnings of 84 cents a share for the quarter and $3.39 a share for the year, according to a survey by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Mr. Nasser said the economy appears to be heading for a soft landing after a series of Federal Reserve rate increases. "For our industry, it's soft, but it's sudden," he said. "Many companies were surprised and were left with unusually high inventories," he said. 

 The slowdown in the U.S. vehicle-sales pace from annualized levels close to 19 million vehicles earlier this year happened "very quickly," Mr. Nasser said. Auto makers had to rapidly overhaul production plans geared to higher volumes. 

 "We should be able to adjust quickly and align production with demand," he said. Actions Ford has taken to slow production should be "what's needed if the market doesn't deteriorate any further," he said. 

 But Mr. Nasser said he is optimistic that Ford will weather the slowdown well. He said several new products are due to hit the market this year, including a new Ford Explorer sport-utility vehicle, the Escape compact SUV, and the Jaguar X-Type entry-level luxury car. 

 "There's very little that can substitute for strong products," he said. 

 "The weak suffer first. We've got the strongest brands, and they're diverse in demographics and appeal." 

 In addition, Mr. Nasser said Ford will be slowing factories from speeds in excess of rated capacity to a more normal pace. That could help Ford by giving suppliers and factory workers more time to attack problems that have hampered the launch of some key Ford vehicles, notably the new Escape, he said. The slowdown "gives us an opportunity to take some tension out of the system," Mr. Nasser said. 

 Mr. Nasser added that Ford will look for ways to cut costs further, but he declined to outline specific new actions, noting that Ford has cut operating costs significantly during the past several years. 

 "I see opportunities in every area of the business: costs, investment, revenue growth," he said. "I wouldn't look at it as a need only to reduce costs." 

 Write to Joseph B. White at joseph.white@wsj.com 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020020330dwc501om6
?
 

Abreast of the Market
 Stocks Pay Price for Firms' Excessive Optimism --- More Profit Reversals Could Undermine The Market Further   

 By Greg Ip   
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
1,777 words
4 December 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
C1
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

 At the end of October, Altera cautioned investors that fourth-quarter sales of its customizable semiconductors would grow at the lower end of its previous 12% to 15% forecast.   

 Altera wasn't pessimistic enough. Last Wednesday, just one month later, it said in fact sales probably wouldn't grow at all. "This is a fairly sharp change in our expectations," says Scott Wylie, Altera's head of investor relations. Altera's customers "made a decision early in November they wanted to reduce their inventory levels and they reacted rather quickly."   

 Fueling the current, painful pullback in stocks, and technology issues in particular, is the speed with which the reversal in economic and profit fortunes has blindsided most economists, analysts and companies. "Can you say `free fall?'" asks Chuck Hill, research head for First Call/Thomson Financial.   

 Their excessive optimism of prior months has made the impact all the harsher. Businesses, and the analysts who follow them, had extrapolated the first half's buoyant growth through the rest of the year and into 2001, and dismissed many early warning signs as isolated incidents. Mr. Hill says they are still too optimistic.   

 Though economic indicators are increasingly signaling a notable slowdown, "companies aren't putting it in their budgets for next year," says Beth Cotner, chief investment officer for large growth stocks at Putnam Investment Management. "So there may be more [disappointments] to come." Another round of reality checks much like the sales and profitwarning Gateway delivered Wednesday could further undermine stocks.   

 The Gateway news helped fuel another dismal week for the market. With a half-hearted rise of 47.36 points, or 1.8%, Friday, the Nasdaq Composite Index finished the week down 9%, or 259 points, at 2645.29. It is off 35% for the year and 48% from its March high. The blue-chip indexes also sank, though by less. The Dow Jones Industrial Average eased 1%, or 97 points, to 10373.54 for the week, with a 40.95-point decline on Friday. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 2%, or 26.54 points, for the week, to 1315.23.   

 Gateway, like Altera, had been relatively upbeat just weeks before its warning. When Wit Soundview downgraded Gateway, sending it sliding two weeks ago, the company rushed to reassure investors. "We are confident that our sales . . . are ramping at expected levels," Chief Financial Officer John Todd said. "We remain comfortable with consensus earnings per-share estimates."   

 Just nine days later, Mr. Todd was forced to eat his words. On the same day as Altera's warning, he said dismal Thanksgiving sales would cause fourth-quarter earnings to be 40% less than expected, and the chill descending on consumer purchases of personal computers would hammer next year's sales, too. Gateway stock sank 36%. Gateway spokesman Brad Shaw says the company's outlook changed so quickly because the plunge in Thanksgiving weekend sales "was a big, startling disappointment."   

 Rob Cihra, an analyst who follows Gateway for ING Barings, suspects the Securities and Exchange Commission's new "fair disclosure" regulation may be prompting companies to disclose bad news sooner than they previously would have. "Maybe we should get used to it." (Both Mr. Shaw and Mr. Wylie said Regulation FD didn't affect how their companies issued their guidance.)   

 Mostly, it is the slowing economy that is catching companies by surprise. When Home Depot warned in mid-October that profit for the second half of this year and all of next year would be less than expected, it blamed lower lumber prices more than the economy.   

 "We don't see it becoming a bad economy," Chief Executive Arthur Blank said at the time. But when the company reported third-quarter results a month later, the tone was gloomier. Mr. Blank said customer traffic had slowed in prior weeks and the business environment for the coming year "will probably continue to be fairly difficult." (A Home Depot spokesman maintains the company's message was essentially the same on both occasions.)   

 Analysts, who two months ago expected consumer cyclical companies in the S&P 500 such as Home Depot to report 10% annual earnings growth this quarter, now expect a 2% drop. Even consumer staples such as Procter & Gamble, whose stocks have rallied in recent weeks as former tech investors seek safe havens, are seeing profit views cut.   

 It is possible that even if estimates drop further, stocks already have discounted the worst news possible. Timothy Ghriskey, portfolio manager at Dreyfus, says, "It has seemed over the past couple of weeks that a number of stocks were bottoming out on recession fears. Retail stocks have had a very strong month, despite slowing sales. The feeling was they had discounted a hard landing. The same is true of capital goods and basic materials -- papers, metals, chemicals."   

 If in fact the expected economic soft landing materializes, stocks could be seen as fairly valued. But if the Federal Reserve fails to ease rates sufficiently to avoid a recession, it is tough to see how the S&P 500 is justified at its current, lofty 21 times estimated 2001 earnings, since a recession tends to weigh on both earnings and price-to-earnings multiples.   

 Technology probably remains most vulnerable to additional disappointment. Analysts have slashed projections for fourth-quarter growth to 14%, from 29% two months ago, for S&P 500 tech stocks, according to First Call, but expect 15% for the first quarter of next year.   

 Analysts are still acting as if the bad news is "company-specific or temporary," Mr. Hill says. They have ignored "canaries in the coal mine," like the profit warning three weeks ago by electronic components distributor Avnet, which Mr. Hill says is often first to see a slowdown. "We're not seeing the wholesale cuts in technology," but he expects to.   

 So does Paul Sagawa, a Sanford C. Bernstein analyst who warned in late September that the credit crunch slowly strangling most telecom concerns would invariably reduce what they buy from communications-equipment makers. He forecast growth of such spending would fall to 20% next year from 28% this year and downgraded both Cisco Systems and Nortel Networks. Since then, the picture has gotten worse as companies such as Williams Communications Group and WorldCom disclose less-robust spending plans than had been expected. Mr. Sagawa now expects such spending to grow just 15%. In the meantime, Nortel has seen its stock sliced almost in half on less-than-expected optical gear sales. But Nortel CEO John Roth insists the picture for next year remains bright. Cisco has remained upbeat, with its stock unscathed and profit estimates intact.   

 Mr. Sagawa attributes their optimism to human nature and lagged information. Finance officials at the telecom carriers know the capital markets are cutting them off, but the engineers haven't bought the story yet, he says. As a result, "they're not telling vendors `We're going to back off spending,' and since salespersons aren't hearing that from customers, CEOs of [equipment] companies aren't hearing the message from the salespeople. Mr. Roth is hearing his own people saying `It's not that bad' because the message hasn't gotten all the way through. The capital market is saying it is that bad."   

 Mr. Sagawa concludes, "A lot of the companies . . . just haven't yet fully capitulated to the market. When they do, we're due for a round of downward revisions."   

 ---   

 E.S. Browning contributed to this article.   

 ---   

 Friday's Market Activity   

 Early strength in high technology faded by the close of trading, leaving tech issues moderately higher and blue-chip shares even-more-modestly lower.   

 The gains came as high-tech issues tried to work back from a downdraft brought on Thursday by earnings warnings from Gateway and Altera.   

 Gateway rose 12 cents to 19.12, after having slumped to a two-year low in Thursday's trading, while Altera responded with a little more vigor, gaining 2.06 to 26 on Nasdaq, after it had dropped to a 52-week low Thursday.   

 Lowe's fell 1.19 to 38.88. Lehman Brothers lowered its earnings estimate on the North Wilkesboro, N.C., home-improvement retailer.   

 Jones Apparel Group gained 2.31 to 35. Lehman Brothers raised its price target on the Bristol, Pa., designer of women's apparel and footwear.   

 As traders watched the day's legal actions regarding the election, drug-company stocks, one group widely presumed to benefit from a Bush administration, gave up some recent gains. Merck fell 2.06 to 90.63, after having posted a 52-week high Thursday. Eli Lilly fell 3.63 to 90.06.   

 Concerns about ripe valuations in the sector following those drug makers' big run recently also contributed to the declines. Schering-Plough fell 2.44 to 53.63, while Pharmacia declined 3.50 to 57.50, after UBS Warburg lowered ratings, citing rich share prices.   

 Medical-device makers also weakened, as Johnson & Johnson fell 2.25 to 97.75, as did health insurers, such as Cigna, which declined 3.84 to 127.91.   

 SBC Communications, one of the former regional Bell companies, a group that has held up better than almost any other in telecom, finished the session off 2.75 to 52.19. BellSouth lost 1.25 to 40.56.   

 Quaker Oats gained 1.69 to 88.63, on news that PepsiCo has come back to the bargaining table for negotiations to buy the food and beverage products maker for a reported $14.3 billion of stock. An earlier round of talks broke off a month ago. PepsiCo shares declined 3 to 42.38.   

 Raytheon's Class A shares fell 4.63 to 27.75, while its Class B shares shed 5.25 to 29.81. The Lexington, Mass., defense-electronics maker warned investors that it expected 2001 earnings will come in a little lower than it previously forecast, suggesting that the company's recovery from its previous weakness has taken longer than officials had hoped.   

 General Dynamics fell 2.69 to 73.56, pulling back from the 52-week high recorded Thursday, moving in sympathy with Raytheon, even though the company made some bullish comments about its own earnings forecasts for 2003. Other defense contractors, such as Litton Industries, which fell 44 cents to 60, and Lockheed Martin, which declined 2.70 to 31.40, pulled back on the session as well.   

 -- Robert O'Brien   

Document j000000020010807dwc400uv6
?
 

 International News 
 U.S. Auto Sales Dropped 3.4% in November --- Ford Issues  Profit Warning ; It and DaimlerChrysler to  Cut  Output 

 By Sholnn Freeman 
Staff Reporter
329 words
4 December 2000
The Asian Wall Street Journal
AWSJ
2
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 DETROIT -- U.S. auto sales fell 3.4% last month to the lowest rate in a year and a half, spurring Ford Motor Co. and DaimlerChrysler AG to cut production. 

 Ford warned that the cutbacks in the U.S., along with reduced output in Europe, would bring its fourth-quarter earnings down to about 75 cents a share, ten cents below analysts' forecasts. 

 Officials at Ford and DaimlerChrysler said they would rely on production cuts as the economy cools, rather than the costly incentives that helped fuel record-breaking demand in past months. 

 "At some point it's counterproductive to artificially prop up the market. . . . It's a decisive strategy to let demand govern supply instead of the other way around," said Jamie Jameson, vice president of sales and marketing operations for DaimlerChrysler's Chrysler Group. The parent company sent in new German managers to take over at the unit last month after it began bleeding red ink. 

 No. 1 auto maker General Motors Corp.'s U.S. market share of 25.9% was the lowest in decades for a month not affected by strikes, but officials said the company won't announce production plans until late this week. GM sales analyst Paul Ballew said deep discounts offered in October pulled sales ahead from last month, pointing out market share so far this year is 28.4%. 

 In November, GM sales fell 8.1% to 319,667 units, with declines among both cars and trucks. Ford's total was off 7.3% to 299,925, with cars off 16% and trucks down 1%. The beleaguered Explorer sport-utility vehicle, which was hit with another recall Friday, saw sales down 12% in November. DaimlerChrysler's sales in the month were down 5.2% at 200,240, with most of the decline coming in cars. 

Document awsj000020010803dwc400ekw
?
 

 Paint Maker Sherwin-Williams Issues Full-Year  Profit Warning 

316 words
4 December 2000
15:08
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 CLEVELAND -- Paint maker Sherwin-Williams Co., hurt by poor sales of some of its paint products, said it expects its full-year results to fall short of earlier forecasts. 

 The company, which in October posted a 4.3% decline in third-quarter net income, said it now expects to earn $1.90 a diluted share for the year, below the $1.96 to $2 a share it had projected. 

 The mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial had been for earnings of $1.97 a share. 

 Sherwin-Williams (SHW) said weak sales of exterior paints in retail stores had hurt profits. It also said that disappointing sales in the U.S and United Kingdom forced retailers to make inventory corrections. Also, heightened competition in South America hurt profits there. 

 The company said it expects its sales increase to be at the low end of its 4% to 6% projection and said it has taken action to improve its long-term outlook. 

 "We are disappointed with having to lower our expectation of operating results for the year," said Christopher M. Connor, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "However, we have implemented plans and programs to move the company forward next year despite a continuing soft environment." 

 The latest warning comes after a disappointing third quarter, when the company was hit by increased costs in raw materials. 

 Sherwin-Williams warned in September that it wasn't able to offset most of the cost increases in raw materials by raising selling prices or reducing costs. 

 The latest warning comes as several paint makers have suffered from softening sales. In October, PPG Industries INC. (PPG) reported a 1.9% decline in third-quarter earnings from operations as it struggled with sharp increases in energy and raw-material costs. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020020330dwc401oey
?
 

 Raytheon's Slide Halts, But Analysts Are Still  Cautious 

 By Sonoko Setaishi 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
514 words
4 December 2000
18:32
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Shares of Raytheon Co. (RTNA, RTNB) stabilized Monday following Friday's 23% slide fueled by the company's profitwarning and cautious remarks on its aircraft business. 

 But most analysts still aren't advising investors to jump in and scoop up the stock of the No. 3 U.S. defense contractor. 

 They said the share price hasn't yet reached an attractive level, and that the company is failing to live up to previous expectations that it was on track to beat - not trail - Wall Street profit forecasts. 

 Speaking at a Lehman Brothers investor conference Friday, Raytheon Chairman and Chief Executive Dan Burnham said the maker of missiles, defense electronics and commercial aircraft expects to earn $1.55 a share to $1.70 a share in 2001. 

 The current consensus estimate calls for Raytheon to earn $1.70 a share next year, according to a survey of 13 analysts compiled by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 The news sent Raytheon's Class B shares, more heavily traded than its Class A shares, spiraling down $5.25, or 23%, to $27 a share Friday. 

 Early afternoon Monday, the stock was up 13 cents, or 0.4%, at $29.94. 

 Helping to stop the stock's selloff, Christopher Mecray, analyst at Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown in New York, Monday raised his rating on the company to strong buy from buy. 

 "We believe the reaction to (Raytheon's) guidance for 2001 (per-share earnings) was overdone," Mecray wrote. He added that the defense company is "still on track" for a financial turnaround many analysts had anticipated. 

 "Raytheon remains a strongly positioned defense name that is attractive for the current volatile market," wrote the analyst, adding that the company can still meet his 2001 earnings estimate of $1.70 a share. 

 Other analysts weren't so convinced. 

 Todd Ernst, analyst at Prudential Securities Inc. in New York, cut his 2001 profit forecast on Raytheon to $1.65 a share from $1.70 a share. Paul Nisbet, analyst at JSA Research Inc. in Newport, RI, is considering slashing his per-share estimate for next year to $1.65 from $1.75. 

 Raytheon has "not been on our buy list because we felt the stock price was too high and it's coming down to where we really felt it should be," Nisbet said. He has a hold rating on the company. 

 The analyst expects the stock to stay in a range between $30 a share and $35 a share "for the next several quarters," and doesn't plan to change his rating unless the stock falls "significantly below" $30. 

 Byron Callan, analyst at Merrill Lynch & Co. in New York, wrote: "Given the company's more stable performance in 2000, there was a growing belief by some that 2001 and 2002 could see upward revisions to consensus expectations." Callan is maintaining his neutral rating on Raytheon. 

 -By Sonoko Setaishi, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-4148; sonoko.setaishi@dowjones.com 

Document dj00000020010805dwc404isx
?
 

 Scholastic Exec., Others Settle SEC Insider Trading Case 

 By Colleen DeBaise 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
341 words
4 December 2000
17:44
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- A Scholastic Corp. (SCHL) executive agreed to pay nearly $218,000 to settle Securities and Exchange Commission allegations that she tipped off her brother, a financial analyst, before the New York children's book publisher announced a profit warning. 

 Leslye R. Schaefer, senior vice president of marketing at Scholastic Entertainment, was one of a group of company officers told in advance that Scholastic would announce in February 1997 a decline in earnings due to weak sales of its "Goosebumps" books, according to the SEC. 

 She disclosed the information to her brother, Allan G. Schaefer, a securities analyst at Beneficial Capital Management Corp., who tipped off two friends who proceeded to make about $137,000 by purchasing put options on Scholastic's stock, according to the SEC. 

 All four settled the SEC action without admitting or denying wrongdoing. Leslye Schaefer agreed to pay a fine of $137,343 and return $80,000 representing illegal trading profits. "Ms. Schaeffer settled the matter to avoid prolonged litigation," said her attorney, John R. Hewitt. 

 Allan Schaefer agreed to pay a civil penalty of $50,000. His attorney couldn't immediately be reached. 

 The two men who traded on the information, Paul Epstein and Ronald Zweibaum, weren't fined because of their inability to pay, the agency said. However, Epstein agreed to return profits of $10,000 and Zweibaum agreed to return $51,600. 

 Epstein's attorney declined to comment. Zweibaum's attorney couldn't immediately be reached. 

 Leslye Schaefer is still employed at Scholastic Entertainment, the television-marketing arm of Scholastic. Judy Corman, a Scholastic spokesman, described Schaefer as a "valuable" employee. 

 "The SEC never alleged that she received any financial benefit from the improper trading," she said. "We're convinced that she did nothing that she thought would be injurious to Scholastic." 


Corman added that Scholastic cooperated with the SEC's investigation.
  -Colleen DeBaise, Dow Jones Newswires, 212-227-2017,
  colleen.debaise@dowjones.com


Document dj00000020010805dwc404ip0
?
 

 Hot Stocks To Watch: XRX MOT INTC XLNX 

138 words
4 December 2000
14:06
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


Xerox Corp.          Saw its credit rating cut
 Fri close $6.25     to junk status by Moody's
 Dn 69 cents, 9.9%   Investors Service, raising
 6.8M Shares         concerns about the copier
 (XRX)               maker's liquidity.
                     (Full story under XRX.)
 -  -
Motorola             Co. may issue a profit
 Fri close $18.56    warning Monday, according
 Dn $1.50, 7.5%      to a rumor circulating in
 21.1M Shares        London.
 (MOT)               (Full story under MOT.)
 -  -
Intel Corp.          A rumor surfaced Friday that
 Fri close $34.13    the chip maker would issue
 Dn $3.94, 10.3%     an earnings warning this week.
 103,800 Shares
 (INTC)
 -  -
Xilinx               Will release its December
 Fri close $40       business update at 4:15 p.m.
 Up $1.00, 2.6%      EDT.
 16.9M Shares
 (XLNX)



09:06 AM


Document dj00000020010805dwc404i3q
?
 

 UPDATE 1-Kirch to acquire minority stake in EM.TV. 

 By Sabine Bub 
695 words
3 December 2000
20:25
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 MUNICH, Dec 3 (Reuters) - German media giant Kirch Group has agreed to acquire a minority stake in EM.TV & Merchandising, which owns The Muppets characters, and take over several hundred million dollars in debt, industry sources told Reuters on Sunday. 

 The deal, which comes after the troubled media company slashed full-year profit forecasts on Friday, will give the privately held Kirch a minority holding in EM.TV rather than the majority stake originally expected. 

 But Kirch will be ensured a significant level of control and the ability to block any changes in the statutes of EM.TV, the sources said. 

 Details of the deal are expected to be announced at a news conference called for Monday, when EM.TV will report third-quarter earnings. 

 EM.TV insisted last week it did not face liquidity problems, but sources said Kirch had been surprised by the extent of the problems at the company. 

 "It's a rescue programme for EM.TV, which is now freed from its heavy debt burden," the source said. 

 Under the agreement, Kirch will take a "significant stake" in SLEC, the company that runs Formula One racing, but will leave EM.TV with part of its 50 percent holding in the unit. 

 The two groups will work together, with EM.TV focusing on its original core business of children's television. 

 EM.TV founder and Chief Executive Thomas Haffa, whose family holds about 50 percent of EM.TV, is likely to keep his position, but he will not receive shares in KirchMedia, the Kirch unit that is the vehicle for the deal. 

 Other board changes are likely. The Sueddeutsche Zeitung said Haffa's younger brother, Florian, the former chief financial officer who was replaced earlier this year, is likely to go. 

 SPECTACULAR RISE AND FALL 

 The deal with Kirch seals one of the most dramatic stories the German bourse has seen in recent years, one that typified the rocketing success of the Neuer Markt growth segment, but also illustrated some of its growing pains. Neuer Markt is Germany's version of Nasdaq. 

 The once high-flying media group slashed its profit forecast by over 90 percent on Friday, blaming missed revenue targets and lower margins. As recently as October, it had said its earnings were not under threat. 

 EM.TV's share price, which once put it on a par with some of the biggest companies in Germany, has plunged more than 86 percent since February. 

 The stock had a wild ride on Friday. It went from a gain of more than 8 percent just before the profit warning to a two-year low of 15.11 euros in the afternoon. It closed down 15 percent at 16.19 euros. 

 The spectacular rise in EM.TV stock from a 1997 debut to a high of 120 euros in February created numerous millionaires in Germany, helping fuel a boom in stock market investing in a country where share ownership was once regarded with suspicion. 

 But the drastic profit warning adds to a series of high-profile Neuer Markt upsets, and follows scandals at companies like Internet services firm Gigabell and software firm Infomatec. 

 EARNINGS TARGET MISSED 

 EM.TV shares tumbled in October after it said it could not book income and revenue from the acquisitions of Jim Henson, the company behind the Muppets, in the first half, forcing a revision of interim sales figures. 

 On Friday, it cut its forecast for earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) to 50 million marks from 525 million marks ($234.5 million), and said annual sales would reach 1.38 billion marks, down 2.7 percent from its earlier forecast. 

 But it stressed that its financial position was not under threat, countering market rumors that it might be facing a payments crisis. 

 "The group's liquidity is secured despite the negative earnings forecast," EM.TV said in a statement. 

 It provided no detailed explanation for the drastic revision, but banking sources said newly appointed Chief Financial Officer Rolf Rickmeyer had uncovered incorrectly booked earnings, and said the Jim Henson unit was losing money. 

Document lba0000020010821dwc30b91a
?
 

Business; Share Market
Batten Down The Hatches, Investors Warned

Jan Eakin   
858 words
2 December 2000
Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
53
English
© 2000 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.   www.smh.com.au

Growing concerns that the US economy is heading towards a hard landing should have only a limited impact on the local sharemarket equity, analysts predicted yesterday, although investors were advised to batten down the hatches and move into safe-haven stocks as fallout from Wall Street's ongoing volatility remained a threat.

Analysts said Nasdaq's 4 per cent fall and the Dow Jones' 2 per cent decline overnight was caused by a profit warning from computer manufacturer Gateway and the growing expectation that the US economy faced a hard landing.

``We know already that a number of cyclical sectors are hard landing,'' said Salomon Smith Barney's equity strategist, Mr Hamish Macalister.

``The question is how far does it spread? In terms of the Australian market, we seem to be holding up relatively well.

``There are a number of things that are helping us. One is the low Australian dollar. The flow of funds is relatively supportive.

``There's a reasonable period of time between now and then for that growth story to deteriorate further. Until we get through the point where markets have some comfort about the degree of downside to growth ... it's going to be a volatile time with a bias to the downside. The risk of a hard landing has risen quite dramatically.''

Despite such concerns, the local sharemarket yesterday proved surprisingly resilient, the All Ordinaries index rising 7.4 points to 3229.4 and the benchmark S&P/ASX200 index 9.5 points to 3824.1. Over the week, the All Ords is down just 1 point.

Technology stocks felt the brunt of any sell-off after Nasdaq dropped to its lowest level for 15 months and almost 50 per cent off its March peak.

But the continued flight to such safe-haven blue chips as the banks, industrials and retailers lent the necessary support to push indices higher.

Private client advisers said local retail investors appeared unfazed about Wall Street's plunge, most blaming the fall solely on the Gateway warning. ``People are switching into defensives, but Wall Street's fall hasn't created that much of a stir here because they see as just one stock's earnings warning,'' said Mr Marcus Padley, head of dealing at Barton Capital Securities.

Having said that, the consequences for locally-listed tech stocks as Nasdaq continues its merciless correction has been dramatic. At the blue chip end of the sector, Ecorp, now trading at $1.81, is 79 per cent off its February high of $8.60 Open Telecommunications, at $1.19 is 69 per cent off its March high of $3.80.

At $7.80, SecureNet is 59 per cent off its March high of $19 and Keycorp, now $7.20, is also 59 per cent off its March high of $17.45.

According to analysts, the technology sector is off 39 per cent since its peak on March 29. At the slightly more suspect end of the sector, Libertyone is 97 per cent off its November 1999 high of $2.21. LookSmart, also traded in the US, is at 43c, 92 per cent off it March high of $5.58.

The winners through all the volatility have been the banks. Up 8 per cent in November, the performance was strong again yesterday. NAB rose 18c to $30 after earlier coming within 5c of its all time high of $30.28. AMP rose 23c to $19 and CBA 17c to $31.86. Commonwealth hit a record $32.26 on Thursday.

News Corp, down 17c to $16.72, weathered the Wall Street storm well considering the American Depositary Receipts were slammed overnight. However, the media giant is still off 40 per cent since hitting its $28 peak in March.

A number of new stocks also floated yesterday. Diamond explorer Dwyka Diamonds Ltd opened at a 9c premium to its 20c offer price. The stock closed at 26.5c with 8.5 million shares changing hands. Business telephones systems provider Commander Communications wasn't so lucky despite counting Telstra among its major investors. It hit the boards at the 95c offer price at midday, but closed 2c lower with 7.6 million shares traded.

Westfield Holdings rose 25c to a closing record of $13.60 after Merrill Lynch rated the stock number one based on its latest analysis using methodology from Harvard's famous economist, Professor Michael Porter.

FACT FILE

* The local sharemarket yesterday proved surprisingly resilient with the All Ordinaries index down just 1 point for the week

* The biggest tech stock faller yesterday was CTI Communications, down 29pc

* News Corp fell less than 1pc here despite falling almost 3pc in the US

* Telstra eased another 3c to $6.19, down more than 6pc over the week 


YESTERDAY'S MOVES
Rises 455 Falls 625 Steady 312
Dec SPI                 3319.0  +31.0
ASX 200                 3284.1  +9.5
Biz.com Tech    3520.8  -25.7
All Industrials         5611.9  +15.1
All Mining      640.2   +9.3
Volume Value    483.8m  1.379bn


Document smhh000020010813dwc200wk9
?
 

Business
Mortice Kern chairman cautiously optimistic  

Kevin Crowley  
Record staff
492 words
2 December 2000
Kitchener-Waterloo Record
TKWR
Final
E01
English
Copyright (c) 2000 Kitchener-Waterloo Record.  

Waterloo -- But he said MKS's products and customer base remain solid, adding that "strong business procedures and controls have been put in place to ensure the company's financial stability."  

When asked for guidance on the company's revenue expectations over the next two quarters, Gibb would only say he was "cautiously optimistic."  

He pointed out that second-quarter revenues have increased $1.2 million US from the previous quarter. However, they're still down $1.6 million US from the same period a year ago.  

The conference call accompanied yesterday's release of MKS's second quarter results, which were in line with a profit warning issued 10 days ago.  

The results show a net loss of $5.5 million US on sales of $7.7 million US.  

That compares to a net loss of $148,000 US on revenues of $9.3 million US during the same period a year ago.  

MKS stock (TSE:MKX) inched up slightly yesterday, closing at $1.01 after sinking to 89 cents Thursday.  

The 16-year-old software maker has been battered in the past six months after undertaking a major corporate restructuring.  

MKS Inc. is now a holding company for two subsidiaries: Vertical Sky, a new company that is responsible for MKS's e-business products; and MKS Software, which handles the company's traditional software line.  

MKS expects Vertical Sky to be the company's profit driver in the future.  

During yesterday's conference call, Gibb was also quizzed about MKS's cash position.  

The company, which has enjoyed positive cash flow in the past, has eaten through $5.5 million US in cash in the past two quarters.  

MKS's cash and cash equivalents stood at $2.7 million US on Oct. 31.  

"It's our objective over the next two fiscal quarters to get as close as possible to balancing the cash (flow)," Gibb said. "I think we're going to be cash negative in the third quarter and I hope to be cash positive in the fourth quarter."  

Gibb said the decline in cash was "significant" but he added that the fundamental nature of the software industry -- high gross margins and positive cash flows -- hasn't changed.  

He described MKS's difficulties as a "transition phase" which the company is addressing with a comprehensive review of all its operations.  

That review has included a substantial turnover in Vertical Sky's sales force and a change in the way sales representatives are compensated.  

The changes are intended to reflect the new approach that Vertical Sky is taking with its e-business products. Rather than just selling software, Vertical Sky sells a "solution-led" combination of software and consulting that is tailored to individual customers.  

MKS's review of operations has left it with 125 employees in Waterloo and a total of 253 employees worldwide -- about 20 fewer than before.  

Document TKWR000020060206dwc200ud2
?
 

 TECH WEEK IN REVIEW:Gateway Warning May Mean Cold Holiday 

 By Timothy Hanrahan and Kristin Hussey 
2,220 words
2 December 2000
01:04
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 WSJ.com 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Nervous technology-stock investors got another jolt this week, as a leading personal-computer maker said that early numbers from the holiday shopping season look weak. 

 Gateway Inc. (GTW) warned late Wednesday that revenue would miss estimates by about $500 million, and that shortfall, combined with a $200 million writedown of technology investments, would mean the company would post a net loss for the fourth quarter. 

 Gateway stock dropped 36% in Thursday's regular session, leading a rout in tech stocks. The technology-laden Nasdaq Composite Index dropped 109 points, or 4%, to 2598 - putting the index down 23% for the month. 

 The warning made Gateway the latest in a string of high-tech stars to disappoint Wall Street: In the last few months, PC makers Dell Computer Corp. (DELL) and Hewlett-Packard Co. (HWP) missed Wall Street estimates, along with Intel Corp. (INTC), which makes the microprocessors for most PCs. 

 Gateway's warning also was worrisome because rather than blaming slow sales in Europe or weak corporate sales, as other companies had, the company cited a severe slackening in consumer demand. Furthermore, executives said that the company's troubling results indicate that PC sales are no longer seasonal - meaning investors should no longer expect pre-Christmas jumps in sales. 

 A day later, another PC maker seemed to back up Gateway's take. Micron Electronics Inc. (MUEI), a much smaller company, said it estimates PC sales to be as much as $35 million lower than expected because of weak consumer demand during the holiday season. 

 Still, it isn't clear that other PC makers are seeing the same slowdown. 

 On Friday, Compaq Computer Corp. (CPQ) Chairman and Chief Executive Michael Capellas said the company saw "robust" sales of PCs over the Thanksgiving weekend and its results are on track with Street expectations . 

 In a presentation at the Credit Suisse First Boston Technology Conference, Capellas said: "For all those people who ask, 'How was your Thanksgiving?' it was just fine, thank you." 


   Hardware and Software



Lernout & Hauspie Speech Products NV (LSHPE) filed for
bankruptcy-court protection, after the software firm's executives
discovered about $100 million apparently was missing from the South
Korean unit - funds the firm was counting on to pay its bills. Also,
Dictaphone Corp.'s former parent sued to annul its merger with L&H, but
legal experts say its chances of success are slim.



Microsoft Corp.'s (MSFT) lawyers urged an appeals court to overturn an
order to break up the software company and criticized Thomas Penfield
Jackson, the trial judge in the case, as biased. Separately, VeriSign
Inc. (VRSN), Microsoft and webMethods Inc. (WEBM) announced that they
have designed a technical framework to simplify the use of so-called
digital signatures with e-commerce programs. And, Microsoft has
recruited a new top deal maker, raising the possibility of more
acquisitions and investments for the software company.



Oracle Corp. (ORCL) is giving a top communications post to Joe
Lockhart, the former White House press secretary who resigned in October
to seek a job in the private sector.



Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) agreed to buy VisionTech Ltd., a closely held
compression-technology company, in an all-stock deal valued at $677
million.



Agilent Technologies Inc. (A) said it will buy software maker
Objective Systems Integrators Inc. (OSII) for about $665 million,
boosting Objective shares 30%.



RealNetworks Inc. (RNWK) named a new head of its consumer business,
following the departure of operating chief Thomas Frank, who ran the
unit as part of his job.



Rational Software Corp. (RATL) agreed to acquire the shares of
Catapulse Inc. it doesn't already own in a stock deal valued at about
$405 million.



Canada's 724 Solutions Inc. (SVNX) agreed to acquire Tantau Software
Inc. of Texas in a $340 million stock transaction.



Japan's Ricoh Co. has agreed to buy U.S. office-equipment distributor
Lanier Worldwide Inc. (LR) for about $253.7 million in order to
strengthen its North American operations.



Hewlett-Packard has been snagged by a German law requiring firms to
pay fees for making compact-disk burners that are being used to lift the
latest hits off the Web.



Sharp Corp. of Japan plans to enter the crowded U.S. market with an
entertainment-oriented device that will offer Web access and downloading
of color video.



NEC Corp. (NIPNY) said it is recalling almost 300 laptops due to a
problem with some Transmeta Corp. (TMTA) chips. Sony Corp. (SNE) said it
will replace free of charge motherboards on Sony computers if they are
found to have faulty microprocessors made by Transmeta.



Merck & Co. (MRK) plans a $100 million venture fund to invest in
information-technology firms to speed communications between doctors,
drug firms and patients.



Computer sales slumped 8% in the first two weeks of November, and
major electronics retailers have lowered earnings forecasts, citing
price cuts.



International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) named Harriet P. Pearson
to the newly created position of chief privacy officer, where she will
lead efforts to protect consumers' personal data.



              Internet and Online



Datek Online Holdings Corp. is selling a majority stake to a group of
investors led by Bain Capital for $700 million. Datek's Island ECN unit
will be spun off.



Japanese police raided the Tokyo office of Yahoo Japan Corp. to
investigate the alleged sale of child pornography videos on the portal's
auction site.



Net2Phone Inc. (NTOP) announced deals with Motorola Corp. (MOT) and
Broadcom designed to improve all three companies' ability to offer
products and services that help people make telephone calls using the
Internet.



Bertelsmann AG's mediaSystems unit is negotiating with RecordTV.com
Inc. to license its technology that records and plays television shows
online. RecordTV is being sued by U.S. movie studios for copyright
infringement.



Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) and Gemstar-TV Guide International Inc.
(GMST) said they have no plans for a merger, acquisition or business
combination but instead announced that they will form an alliance to
better develop electronic-books.



Hollywood studios are working on separate initiatives to deliver their
feature films on demand to consumers via high-speed Internet
connections.



CNET Networks Inc. (CNET) named Chief Executive Shelby Bonnie to the
additional position of chairman, succeeding founder Halsey Minor.



PurchasePro.com Inc. (PPRO) named Office Depot Inc. (ODP) executive
Shawn McGhee its new chief operating officer, replacing one of the
company's founders, Christopher P. Carton.



VeriSign announced it is investing in dotTV Corp., a small firm that
controls Internet addresses ending in ".tv".



Deutsche Telekom AG (DT) has appointed Thomas Holtrop, the board
member in charge of marketing at Deutsche Bank 24, to run its
Internet-service provider T-Online International AG.



Hotwire said it has added Trans World Airlines Inc. (TWA) and Hawaiian
Airlines Inc. (HA) to the roster of suppliers on its Web site, which
sells deeply discounted airline tickets in competition with
Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN).



Stephen King is putting his digital download experiment on hiatus. The
sixth installment of online serial novel "The Plant" will be the last
for "a year or two".



InStyle magazine abandoned plans for an ambitious e-commerce venture
because senior executives at America Online Inc. (AOL) and Time Warner
Inc.'s (TWX) Time Inc. unit think the venture is too expensive.



E-commerce sales soared 15.3% in the U.S. during the third quarter,
despite a stagnation of overall retail sales.



Internet use in Europe is growing by leaps and bounds, according to a
new report prepared by the European Commission.



                Layoffs and Closures



Covad Communications Group Inc. (COVD) said it will cut 13% of its
work force, or about 400 jobs, and shelve network-expansion plans under
a move to help it trim expenses and turn around its lagging business.



E-Stamp Corp. (ESTM) said it will phase out its Internet postage
products and cut its staff by 30%. The company plans to focus instead on
Web-based shipping and logistics.



CUseeMe Networks Inc. (CUSM) will cut 36 jobs as part of a
restructuring at the Internet video-services developer.



Youbet.com Inc. (UBET) will reduce its work force by 29%, or 34
employees, in a move to conserve cash as it develops and expands its
core horse-racing business.



DSL.net Inc. (DSLN) said it plans to reduce its work force by 141
employees, or about 28%, marking the latest bad news from
digital-subscriber-line providers.



ThingWorld will cut its work force by 35 jobs, or 70%. The
multimedia-technology developer said is in discussions to sell its core
assets.



Standard Media International Inc. will shut down its Grok monthly
special-reports magazine after the February issue amid slower
advertising sales.



Stockback.com Inc. laid off almost half its 66 employees this week.
The company helps turn cash spent at online retailers into mutual-fund
investments.



            Telecommunications and Cable



Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) called off its $800 million deal to
buy 55% of NorthPoint Communications Group Inc. (NPNT), amid recent
problems at the high-speed Internet firm. The move drew a heated
response from NorthPoint. Also, NorthPoint intends to pursue legal
action against Verizon for canceling plans to buy a stake in the
Internet firm and provide it with financing.



AT&T Corp. (T) named David Dorman as president. He will run the
business-services and consumer long-distance units and international
ventures, the businesses that will remain after the breakup. Also, AT&T
Broadband, a unit of AT&T, told several companies that it won't accept
further deliveries of products for its cable-television networks for the
rest of the year. Some suppliers' shares fell on the news. Separately,
NTT DoCoMo Inc. is paying a bundle for a 16% stake in AT&T Group Corp.
(AWE) with hopes the deal will help boost use of the Japanese company's
mobile Internet.



Nortel Networks Corp. (NT) won the core portion of AT&T Wireless'
contract to build its next-generation U.S. network.



Qwest Communications International Inc. (Q) is being investigated by
California state regulators for unlawful sales practices.



Comcast Cable Communications plans a test offering of Juno Online
Services Inc. (JWEB) over its high-speed Internet cable lines.



Japan Telecom Co. signed separate two-way agreements with British
Telecommunications PLC (BTY) and AT&T to provide international data
center services.



British Telecom is being investigated by the U.K. telecommunications
regulator for possible anticompetitive pricing of its combined Internet
and telephone packages. Also, British Telecommunications will sell its
joint venture with United News & Media PLC (UNEWY), the Internet-service
provider LineOne, because the telecom giant's debt burden won't allow it
to buy the unit itself.



Philips Electronics NV (PHG) and LG Electronics Co. agreed to merge
their cathode-ray tube businesses. The Dutch company also said it is
exploring ways to cooperate with the Korean firm to make mobile phones.



ReplayTV Inc. said it will move away from selling its set-top devices
to consumers and will instead focus on licensing software to cable
providers and other companies.



            Initial Public Offerings



Telenor ASA cut the price range for its initial public offering,
citing market conditions.



                  Earnings



Altera Corp. (ALTR) reduced its fourth-quarter revenue forecast for
the second time this month, saying it now believes sales should
"approximate" the third quarter's $395.4 million.



ChipPAC Inc. (CHPC) shares plunged after the chip-equipment maker
warned that profit will fall well short of expectations amid weakness in
the wireless and PC markets.



Eidos PLC's (EIDSY) first-half loss excluding items, narrowed from a
year earlier, while sales at the entertainment-software company,
best-known for its Tomb Raider video game, rose 23%.



Gateway warned of a sales slowdown and said it expects a
fourth-quarter loss. The news drove down leading Nasdaq stocks in
after-hours trading.



Web consulting firm iXL Enterprises Inc. (IIXL) said it will cut 35%
of its work force, sell several units and take a fourth-quarter charge,
in the latest round of cutbacks among Internet consulting firms.



Kingston Communications PLC is scaling back plans to build its own DSL
network in the U.K. The British telecom concern also posted a 40% drop
in fiscal first-half profit on higher expansion costs.



Quokka Sports Inc. (QKKA) is cutting 20% of its staff, trimming 90
employees from its 460-strong work force following its purchase of Total
Sports.



Sema Group PLC (SEMA) issued a profit warning, which sent its shares
plummeting 44%. The shortfall reflects a shift in the European market
for "outsourcing" - the management of big companies' computer systems.



Japan's Softbank Corp. returned to profitability for the half-year
ended Sept. 30, and its president said the technology company's shares
are undervalued.



Swisscom AG's (SCM) net profit in the third quarter soared above
expectations, boosted by larger-than-expected one-time gains. Operating
profit, however, fell 32% as margins in the company's fixed-line
business remained under pressure.



XO Communications Inc. (XOXO) said it expects its operating cash-flow
loss to be wider than expected. The company also shifted its European
strategy, which will result in lower capital spending there.


Document dj00000020010805dwc204hqu
?
 Business 
 Nightly Business Report 

 Paul Kangas, Susie Gharib 
4,679 words
1 December 2000
23:30
Nightly Business Report
NBR
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 PAUL KANGAS, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT ANCHOR: Wall Street goes from sizzle to fizzle: a morning rally on the NASDAQ loses steam in the afternoon. The Tech Index closes with a gain of only 47 points; the Dow falls about 41. Good evening. I`m Paul Kangas in Miami. 

 SUSIE GHARIB, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT ANCHOR: And I`m Susie Gharib in New York City. An historic day in Washington: the U.S. Supreme Court hears arguments over Florida`s role in the presidential election. We`ll tell you all about it. Then, a look at the latest medical devices that could save your life, or make you some money. 

 GHARIB: Good evening, everyone. Wall street greeted December with some hope: investors were more willing to buy stocks today after suffering brutal losses in November. The NASDAQ posted its first gain in five days, up 47 points, closing above the 2600 level. But the Dow was negative, losing 41. Suzanne Pratt gauges the mood on Wall Street. 

 SUZANNE PRATT, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: After a pretty gloomy week on Wall Street, today, at least for a while, it looked there was going to be a ray of sunshine. But the Dow and NASDAQ were unable to hold on to early triple-digit gains, sputtering in the afternoon, so that by the closing bell, only the NASDAQ was in positive territory. Some experts were disappointed that today`s rallies had short legs, while others were relieved that stocks held their own. 

 TOM GALLAGHER, U.S. EQUITIES DIR., CIBC WORLD MARKETS: I think it`s significant that the market was able to at least stop going down. I mean, you were at the point where I think that if the market went down today, you would experienced a panic; almost a crash. 

 PRATT: Although there was no clear catalyst for today`s early upward moves, some experts say more investors are now betting that the economy is headed for a soft landing. Fresh economic data out today supported that thinking. The National Association of Purchasing Management said its Index of Manufacturing Activity slipped to 47.7 in November, from 48.3 in October -a reading below 50 indicates contraction in the manufacturing sector. While it was the fourth straight decline for the Index, experts say it`s consistent with an economy that is slowing gradually. 

 MICHELLE GIRARD, TREASURY MARKET STRATEGIST, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: It certainly still looks like a soft landing is the best guess, and while the Fed will likely make a shift in terms of their bias back to neutral in December, it isn`t likely we`re going to see a rate cut before year-end. 

 PRATT: Even without a rate cut in the near future and the feeble nature of today`s trading, some market pros still say the worst is probably over for stocks. 

 GALLAGHER: I`m optimistic, meaning that I don`t think we`re going to experience a lot more on the downside. But I wouldn`t be surprised to see the market end right in this area. 

 PRATT: Despite the lackluster start to the month, history shows that December is actually the best month of the year for stocks. In fact, in the last 15 years the S&P 500 has gained an average of 3 percent in the month of December. Suzanne Pratt, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, New York. 

 KANGAS: Stocks on Wall Street opened nicely higher today in an extension of yesterday afternoon`s comeback rally, which cut a 310-point mid-session deficit in the Dow Industrial Average to a 214-point closing loss and as much as a 170-point decline in the NASDAQ Index to a 109-point closing deficit. At the outset of trading this morning, the Dow rose 56 points, and the NASDAQ was up about 70. But less than impressive volume undermined the upturn a bit, and by 10 a.m., the Dow faded to only a 20-point gain; the NASDAQ to a 57-point advance. The hard-hit tech sector got new life in late morning as buyers sought out what they viewed as oversold stocks, but the blue chips lost some of their early luster as many traders moved to the sidelines to listen to the Supreme Court proceedings regarding the presidential election. We`ll have more on that in just a moment, incidentally. 

 At noon, the Dow was up only 16 points; the NASDAQ up 91. The market weakened considerably in afternoon trading, partly due to normal pre- weekend selling pressures, coupled of course with those Supreme Court hearings. The Dow Jones Industrial Average slumped to a closing loss of 40.95 at 10,373.54. The Dow rose twice this week, but fell three times, and had an overall loss of 96.69 points. The Nasdaq Composite today edged up 47.36 ending at 2645.29. This week, the Composite Index fell four times, and only rose once; had a net overall decline of 259.09 points, that`s 8.9 percent to the downside. 

 Big board volume today well down from yesterday`s record at 1.192.9 billion shares today. About a 7 to 4 ratio of up volume over down volume. 

 The Dow Transport Index up nearly 12 points. 

 But the Utility Index fell exactly 3 1/2 points. 

 Yet the Closing Tick fairly bullish at +544. 

 Standard & Poor`s 500 edged up just over 1/4 point. 

 A loss of just over 1 1/4 in the S&P 100. 

 And the MidCap 400 up 10.14. 

 Bridge Futures Price Index fell 1.13. 

 New York Stock Exchange Composite up nearly a point and three-quarters. 

 Value Line rose 6.16. 

 The Russell2000 Small Cap Index up nearly 11. 

 And the Wilshire 5000 up 61.20. 

 After about three weeks of steady gains, the bond market moved moderately lower today on profit taking, which was partly triggered by the rally in stocks, despite the late fade. The market was also slightly undermined by that decline in the Purchasing Managers 

 Manufacturing Index because it wasn`t as big a drop as generally expected. 

 In any case, tax-free and corporate issues closed down 1/4 to 3/8 of a point on average. 

 And the Treasury market ended lower across the board. 

 The 5-year notes dropping 2/32. 

 10-year notes down 6/32, bringing the yield up to 5.52 percent. 

 30-year bond down 16/32. 

 And the Lehman Brothers Long-Term Treasury Bond Index down 9.69. 

 I`ll be back shortly to show you where the action was on Wall Street today. Susie? 

 GHARIB: Paul, the battle for the presidency intensified today. Late today Florida`s Supreme Court denied Vice President Gore`s request for an immediate recount of some disputed ballots. The Court also certified as legal those so-called butterfly ballots in Palm Beach County. But the real showdown was in Washington, at the highest court of the land. As Darren Gersh explains, the U.S. Supreme Court must decide if Florida`s high court changed the state`s election rules. 

 DARREN GERSH, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: There was nothing usual about this case, from the number of protesters outside to the unprecedented audio released of the proceedings inside. The arguments began almost immediately with a skeptical Justice Anthony Kennedy challenging the Bush campaign to explain why it had come to the nation`s highest court. 

 ANTHONY KENNEDY, U.S. SUPREME COURT JUSTICE: We`re looking for a Federal issue. GERSH: Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg pointed out the Court had a long history of reading state supreme court decisions in a favorable light. 

 RUTH BADER GINSBURG, U.S. SUPREME COURT JUSTICE: And I do not know of any case where we have impugned a state supreme court the way you are doing in this case. 

 GERSH: That prompted an explanation from Governor Bush`s lawyer. 

 THEODORE OLSON, BUSH CAMPAIGN ATTORNEY: I don`t mean to suggest, and I hope my words didn`t, that there was a lack of integrity or any dishonesty by the Florida Supreme Court. What we`re saying that it was acting far outside the scope of its authority. 

 GERSH: Justice Sandra Day O`Connor seemed to agree, saying the Florida Court should have known it was inviting constitutional trouble when it changed the election rules set out by the Florida legislature. 

 VOICE OF SANDRA DAY O`CONNOR, U.S. SUPREME COURT JUSTICE: Well, it certainly did, by enacting that date. Here is the certification date. How could it have been clearer? 

 GERSH: But the Vice President`s lawyers said the Florida Supreme Court was not making a new law. 

 LAURENCE TRIBE, GORE CAMPAIGN ATTORNEY: What they did was say we have to find a date which will accommodate these conflicting statutory provisions and policies in light of what our constitution tells us. 

 GERSH: For investors, today`s arguments did nothing to remove the election worries weighing on the markets. 

 GREG VALLIERE, POLITICAL ANALYST, SCHWAB WASHINGTON RESEARCH: The chances of a genuine constitutional crisis dragging well into December has risen a lot and I think for the markets, now, this is a big, big concern. 

 GERSH: It now appears the markets will be wading through election uncertainty for some time. The Supreme Court could issue its decision as early as next week, but analysts say its ruling could focus on narrow constitutional grounds, leaving the bigger battle to Florida`s courts, the Florida legislature, or even the U.S. Congress. Darren Gersh, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, Washington 

 GHARIB: America`s big three auto makers had a bumpy ride in November. Sales at DaimlerChrysler (DCX) North American division fell five percent to 184,000 cars and trucks. Chrysler plans to cut production by 18 percent in the fourth quarter, idling half of its car and truck plants for one week at a time. Ford (F) also plans to cut production by 38,000 units during the fourth quarter; that will cut Ford`s earnings by $0.10 a share. Its total domestic vehicle sales fell eight percent in November. Similar results at General Motors (GM). Sales dropped almost 8 1/2 percent. But so far, no plans for production cuts at G.M. And Goldman Sachs cut earnings estimates for both G.M. And Ford today. Paul? 

 KANGAS: Surprisingly, the shares of all of the big three ended on the upside. G.M. and Daimler were fractional gainers and Ford was up $1.44. the Dow Industrial Average was up over 100 points at one stage and then ended with that 41 point loss in the late fade. But the broader market still nicely higher. For every 19 stocks on the up side, about 10 on the down side. 101 new yearly highs; 93 new lows. 

 Motorola (MOT) topped the active list on 21.7 million shares, down $1.50 to a new yearly low. 

 Compaq Computer (CPQ) up $1.30 on news the company plans to buy back up to $1 billion of its stock. 

 Lucent Technologies (LU) wedged up $0.13. 

 General Electric (GE) rising $1.44. The company`s Capital unit is getting out of the auto financing ballots. 

 Nortel Networks (NT) was unchanged today. 

 Nokia (NOK) edged up $0.81. 

 While Pfizer (PFE) lost that much. 

 And then AT & T (T) down $0.13. 

 EMC (EMC) up $3.88 after First Boston Brokerage repeated a "buy." 

 Texas Instruments (TXN) gained $0.50, 10th in big board volume. 

 Quaker Oats (OAT) up $1.69 on news that the company has resumed talks with PepsiCo (PEP) about selling out, maybe to around $14.3 billion in PepsiCo stock. And, of course, PepsiCo dropped 3 on the news. 

 PepsiCo (PEP) down $3.50 there. What happened, UBS Warburg Brokerage downgraded it from "buy" to "hold." 

 Robert Half International (RHI) closed up $0.13. But after the close, Standard & Poor`s said this stock will be added to the Standard & Poor`s 500 Index, replacing Associates First Capital (AFS) on a date to be announced. In after-hours trading, Robert Half was $34 a share. 

 Schering-Plough (SGP) down $2.44. UBS Warburg downgraded this stock from "strong buy" to just a "buy." 

 And Scientific-Atlanta (SFA) moving up $3.25 after the Josephthal Brokerage repeated a "strong buy." 

 TNPC (NPW), a power company, up $1.44. First Boston issued a "strong buy" there. The company stands to gain as many as 300,000 new customers thanks to a ruling from the Pennsylvania Utility Commission. 

 USX-U.S. Steel (X) up $1.75 on news the company`s considering measures that could result in the sale of Marathon (MRO) oil or possibly a tracking stock on that unit. China Unicom Limited (CHU) up $2.44. 

 China Mobile Hong Kong (CHL) was up $3.31. Both stocks were upgraded by Merrill Lynch from "accumulate" to "near term buy" and it didn`t hurt that the Hang Seng Index in Hong Kong was up 3.3 percent today. 

 Raytheon (RTN.B), big loser, down 525, the company forecasting lower than expected 2001 earnings of $1.55 to maybe $1.70. The high end on the Street estimate was $1.75. 

 And Fresenius Medical Care (FMS) down $2.44, probably just plain old profit taking after the stock just recently ran up to nearly 30. 

 NASDAQ trading, a gain of 47 1/3 points in the Index. Of course, it was down 259 points on the week, almost nine percent. Trading volume down to 2.2 billion shares. 24 stocks up for every 15 on the down side. 

 Intel (INTC) topped the active list, losing $3.94. First Boston cut 2001 earnings estimates by $0.09, down to $1.66, and that is a new 52 week closing low, incidentally. 

 Cisco (CSCO) edged up $0.63. 

 Microsoft (MSFT) down $0.75. 

 JDS Uniphase (JDSU) up $6.13. 

 Juniper Networks (JNPR) was up $7.25, fifth in NASDAQ dollar volume. 

 Broadcom (BRCM) also up $7.25. 

 Sun Micro (SUNW) edged up $0.88. 

 SDL (SDLI) a gain of $20.23. 

 Veritas Software (VRTS) up $11.38. 

 And Brocade Communications (BRCD), 10th in volume, down $0.06. 

 Oplink Communications (OPLK) had a good day, up $4.19. 

 CIBC World Markets Brokerage issued a "buy" recommendation. 

 Micron Electronics (MUEI) losing $1.25. The company issued a second quarter profit warning, said it`ll come in with earnings of only $0.01 to $0.04. The Street was looking for $0.11. And Glenayre Technologies (GEMS) down $1. The company lowered its fourth quarter and 2001 revenue and earnings projections. 

 The American Exchange Index up .75 today, but for the week it dropped nearly 23 1/2 points, or 2.7 percent. 

 Friendly Ice Cream (FRN) one of the few stocks that didn`t melt in the late sell-off, but no one available at the firm to talk to us about that big gain. 

 Radiologix (RGX) was down $1.56. Due to poor market conditions, the company postponed issuance of a high yield note offering and it would have used the proceeds to finance its merger with SKM-RD Acquisition Corporation. 

 Finally, the Index Shares, losses in the DIAMONDS (DIA) and the Depositary Receipts (SPY). 

 But a gain of 1.02 in the NASDAQ Qs (QQQ). 

 That`s the Wall Street Wrap Up. Susie? 

 GHARIB: Paul, aging baby boomers are pushing medical technology in a variety of new directions these days and the race to diagnose and treat their ailments is bringing healthy profits for some medical device manufacturers. Diane Eastabrook has details. 

 DAVID WILLIS, CLINICAL MARKETING MANAGER, SONOSITE: It`s in a docking station right now, but just flipping a quick lever, this is what you take with you when you go portable. 

 DIANE EASTABROOK, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: SonoSite`s (SONO) portable ultrasound system weighs a fraction of what a conventional ultrasound system weighs, so it can be brought to the patient, rather than the patient being brought to it. 

 WILLIS: We`ve been shipping this system for just over a year. Total sales worldwide, we probably have over 3,000 systems out there. 

 EASTABROOK: The SonoSite system is one of many new cutting edge devices manufacturers are hawking to hospitals and clinics at this radiological conference in Chicago. Most of these gadgets aren`t cheap. GE Medical Systems, the largest exhibitor here, is displaying a $1.5 million MRI machine. GE says the so-called High Field Open MRI System is faster and produces clearer images than competing systems. The company also says it is having no trouble finding buyers. 

 JEFF McCAULLEY, GENERAL SALES MANAGER, GE MEDICAL SYSTEMS MRI: We`ve got orders, back orders well over 40 units. We expect to have at least 20 of those installed by the end of the year and we expect to see the growth in this segment continue to be well over the double digits well into next year. 

 EASTABROOK: The medical device industry is about a $130 billion market and while it hasn`t attracted the attention from investors that biotechnology has, analysts say the industry is relatively stable and is growing steadily. Analysts say an aging population and strong product development will keep the medical device industry growing in the low double digits, despite moves by many hospitals to contain costs. 

 BRUCE JACOBS, MEDICAL DEVICE ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANC ALEX BROWN: There`s no question that there has been some constraints put on hospital spending, but I think what is unique about the medical device industry is that many of the technologies are not part of the problem with health care, they are actually part of the solution, where they actually minimize costs and make procedures faster, make procedures less invasive. 

 EASTABROOK: Jacobs says the market opportunities for medical device makers are immense. He says the challenge is coming up with new and innovative products that will take advantage of those opportunities. Diane Eastabrook, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, Chicago. 

 KANGAS: Monday, it`s a make or break holiday season for online retailer EToys (ETYS). 

 GHARIB: Datek Online Holdings says it will spin off its electronic stock exchange, Island ECN, as a separate company. The IPO is expected sometime next year. Island is the second largest share matching network in NASDAQ stock market shares. Three venture capital firms will invest $700 million in Datek. The deal is key for the brokerage firm as it tries to move away from its troubled reputation stemming from its day trading operations. 

 KANGAS: Another round of layoffs at office equipment maker Xerox (XRX). The company will cut 200 jobs in addition to the 350 administrative workers it let go last month. The moves come as part of a corporate overhaul after Xerox posted its first quarterly loss in 16 years in October. Xerox stock hit a 52 week low today, closing down $0.69, or almost 10 percent at $6.25 a share. 

 GHARIB: Coming up next week, our Friday market monitor is Peter Green, Editor of "Green On Money." In the BridgeNews Watch, Monday, it`s October`s leading economic indicators; Tuesday, factory orders for October; Wednesday, the Fed releases its beige book survey of the economy; and then on Friday, the November jobs report, which could set the tone for the markets. 

 KANGAS: My guest market monitor this week is Alan Ackerman, Senior Vice President of Fahnestock & Company. And welcome back, Alan. 

 ALAN ACKERMAN, SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, FAHNESTOCK & COMPANY: Paul, always good to be with you. We had a nice rally going this morning and it just dissipated, very disappointing to watch that. Do you think we would have been better off if we saw a continuation of the washout that was under way yesterday? 

 ACKERMAN: I don`t think we`re quite ready for a washout yet. The market can`t really make up its mind. Each day is a new adventure. And my sense is that one of the things that`s got this market off balance is the results of the election which, frankly, has taken this nation and divided it over a dimple. 

 KANGAS: You think it`s that large a factor here in the negativity? 

 ACKERMAN: I think it is because I think it has a lot to do with what the Fed may do. It has a lot to do with what government spending will be like and I think that the market hates uncertainty. And we clearly have four areas of uncertainty. One is the election. Two is energy. Three is the Euro. And fourth is really corporate earnings, which seem to be tailing off very rapidly. 

 KANGAS: So the economy is being helped along on its slowdown by the market itself, is it not? 

 ACKERMAN: Well, I think it`s making the market, the market and the economy are both on sale. I think when you go into the retail stores, as we did on Sunday, you`ll see big discounts. People are not buying, they`re browsing. I think they`re waiting for these prices to come down. And I think people are doing just that with the market. We`ve got a temporary buyers strike. People are waiting for prices to get a bit lower. 

 KANGAS: Do you think Chairman Greenspan of the Federal Reserve, who hated irrational exuberance, might be quick to act on irrational weakness in the market? 

 ACKERMAN: Can we call it irrational abstinence? It seems to me that`s what`s happening. 

 KANGAS: True. ACKERMAN: Yes, I think that, in fact, Greenspan, who is going to be in office till 2004, has been a little bit slow to pull the trigger to ease up on the Fed and my sense is at the next meeting they may move to neutral, but I don`t see rates coming down until the beginning of next year. 

 KANGAS: From the technical standpoint, Alan, do you see any promise of a near term market bottom? 

 ACKERMAN: I`m hopeful we`ll see a bottom. I think we`ll be testing the bottom once again on NASDAQ. The risk of recession is rising. There`s tax selling going on. So I think with these complex cross currents, the market will have some downside pressure ahead. 

 KANGAS: How much? 

 ACKERMAN: Tough to tell, but I`d say that it would not surprise me to see NASDAQ get down to 2200, 2300 although I hope it will stay closer to that 2500 range. 

 KANGAS: On your last visit with us June 16th of this year, you had recommended GE (GE) long prior to that, said stay with it. It`s still well above where you recommended it then. IBM (IBM) is still about five points above where it was, and Oracle (ORCL) is about double where it was. Those were good calls. You had one real clinker, Nexterra (NEX.V) which was around 5. It it`s now about $1. Are you staying with that? 

 ACKERMAN: Well, Nexterra got caught with the vortex of the dot.com stocks and my feeling is that the stock is oversold at the moment and it yesterday put out a very positive outlook for the next year. 

 KANGAS: OK. All right, Nokia (NOK) was one you were looking at. You said if it got into the 40s, it was in the high 50s then, you`d buy it. It`s certainly in the 40s and been to the 30s. Did you buy it? 

 ACKERMAN: We`re getting awfully close to a buy point on Nokia. 

 KANGAS: OK. 

 ACKERMAN: And a couple of the other stocks that I like that are selling closer to 13 times earnings and give us a little bounce into the new year are Wilmington Trust (WL), which could be a takeover candidate. There`s been a rumor out there talking about a price takeover of 70. 

 KANGAS: Where does that trade? 

 ACKERMAN: That trades on the New York. 

 KANGAS: OK. 

 ACKERMAN: And the other is Ocean Energy. It also trades on the New York, symbol OEI. This is a company with value and growth in the energy area and I thinker they`re about to prove that the Gulf of Mexico reserves may be bigger than expected. 

 KANGAS: OK, back then in June, you liked Washington Mutual (WM). The stock went from 27 to 46. Are you still with it? 

 ACKERMAN: Still with it, still like it. 

 KANGAS: How about Citigroup ? You liked it at a cost basis of 40. It`s now around 50 after the 4-3 split. Do you still like it? 

 ACKERMAN: Like it even better now, especially if the interest rates are going to come down. 

 KANGAS: All right, we have a little less than a minute for some other ideas on the buy side or on the sell side. 

 ACKERMAN: Well, there`s a small company, it`s traded on NASDAQ and on the Toronto, called Namibian Minerals. The symbol is NMCOF. Shares came down sharply when the markets sold off. 

 KANGAS: Do you have a position personally in the stock? 

 ACKERMAN: I have a personal position in the stock. The company is one of the leading producers of diamonds from offshore and my sense is that they`re going to launch with a major new piece of technology shortly and I think that stock could double or triple from here. 

 KANGAS: All right, well, let`s hope it turns out to be just the gem you hope it does. 

 ACKERMAN: Touch, Paul. 

 KANGAS: Thanks very much for being with us again, Alan. 

 ACKERMAN: You bet. Always a pleasure. 

 KANGAS: My guest, Alan Ackerman, Senior Vice President of Fahnestock & Company. GHARIB: And recapping today`s market action, a strong start, but a weak finish. The Dow falls about 41 points, but the NASDAQ gains 47. And please be sure to join us at our World Wide Web site, NBR.com. 

 GHARIB: And finally, looking for a holiday gift for the billionaire who has everything? How about a 165-foot yacht with a marble floored lobby and a gym? The price, just $30 million. Now, that tops the "R.O.B." report`s list of 21 exclusive gifts for the 21st century. The magazine also suggests a $7 3/4 million gift of four Patek Philippe pocket watches, or a $325,000 African safari. And if you`re pinching pennies, there`s also a $39,000 Alpine skiing vacation. And, Paul, if you`re really scrimping, the magazine itself goes for $9.99. You can always look at those pictures and dream. 

 KANGAS: For $9.99 I`m also going to read the articles. 

 GHARIB: Get your money`s worth. That`s NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT for Friday, December 1st. I`m Susie Gharib. Have a great weekend, everyone. And, you, too, Paul. 

 KANGAS: You, too, Susie. I`m Paul Kangas, wishing all of you the best of good buys. 

 Nightly Business Report transcripts are available on-line post broadcast. The program is transcribed by FDCH. Updates may be posted at a later date. The views of our guests and commentators are their own and do not necessarily represent the views of Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. Nightly Business Report, or WPBT. Information presented on Nightly Business Report is not and should not be considered as investment advice. c 2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. 

 END 

 TO PURCHASE A VIDEOTAPE OF THIS PIECE, PLEASE CALL  888-266-3601 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc.  Formatting and transcription copyright 2000 eMediaMillWorks, Inc.  (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No quotes from the materials contained herein may be used in any media without attribution to Community Television Foundation of South Florida, Inc. This transcript may not be copied or resold in any media. 

Document nbr0000020010808dwc10006p
?
 

 Despairing tech investors embrace language of doom. 

 By Eric Auchard 
761 words
1 December 2000
13:18
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Dec 1 (Reuters) - Better late than never. 

 Technology investors who for years gorged on an endless feast of hyper-growth stories now find themselves free to speak of bear markets, recession and stock panics, using language once widely seen as treasonous among bull market patriots. 

 It's as if brutal honesty among traders, analysts and money managers on Wall Street now represents the only cure for a seemingly endless stream of negative company news. 

 "It seems like the total give-up phase," said Mona Eraiba, a former semiconductor analyst recently turned hedge fund manager with Rosetta Management Group LLC in New York. "There is just a sense that there is no salvation in sight," she said. 

 Wall Street's leading lights are facing up to the numbing statistical reality that no sector is safe from slowing growth, inventory gluts and slackening product demand. 

 Certainly not cash-starved Internet start-ups or aging personal computer makers. Nor once hot semiconductor or network gear suppliers. No one is immune from selling pressures. 

 "The burden of proof is on the optimists, in our view," Merrill Lynch Global Technology Strategist Steve Milunovich said in a note to clients in which he heralded the emergence of a bear market in technology stocks. 

 The normal instinct to look for the silver lining in new-product releases or management outlooks has reversed. Rather than snooping for good news, normal investor psychology now anticipates the worst and sits out sudden upward stock moves. 

 With many former high-flyers now down anywhere from 50 percent to 90 percent from year-highs, brokerages that once used their research departments as bulwarks against critical analysis have joined the flood of naysayers. 

 Technology conferences in recent weeks have lost their celebratory tone and taken on the air of funeral processions, commented Bill Meehan, chief market analyst at Cantor, Fitzgerald & Co. 

 This week's big event for tech investors - the Credit Suisse First Boston conference in Arizona - has demonstrated that a "disappointing Christmas season is now a certainty," one CSFB analyst wrote of news emerging from the conference. 

 Merrill Lynch went so far as to cancel its planned Internet investment conference in Phoenix next week, citing difficult market conditions. The brokerage plans to try holding the event in late spring, once the current market gloom lifts. 

 Pip Coburn, technology strategist for UBS Warburg, said money managers have grown fed up with company managements that regularly reiterate that results are on track, that business is good - and then turn around and issue a profit warning. 

 U.S. regulators' push to force companies to fully disclose important financial news has put pressure on executives to pre-announce even the possibility of shortfalls to avoid being singled out for punishment under new disclosure rules. 

 Technology analysts now compete with each other to be the first to go negative on whole sectors. 

 Credit Suisse First Boston downgraded its rating on the whole semiconductor sector Thursday, citing the slowdown in personal computer and wireless, the chip industry's biggest markets, a build-up of inventory and lower earnings outlooks. 

 In the past month, Morgan Stanley has slashed network equipment makers, Merrill cut component suppliers, and UBS dropped semiconductor equipment makers, to name only a few previously hot sectors. 

 Following Gateway Inc.'s surprise warning on Wednesday that fourth-quarter consumer PC demand would fall far short of expectations, Bear Stearns analyst Andy Neff said that similar warnings could come from Gateway's competitors. He said profit estimates for Compaq Computer Corp., International Business Machines Corp., Apple Computer Inc. and Hewlett-Packard Co. were at risk. 

 "This is a situation where the psychology has gotten brutally negative after eight months of declines. Unfortunately, there's even negative fundamentals (bad news) out there to keep the gloomy psychology running," he said. 

 "We remain cautious with analysts now cutting ratings and estimates, a process not completed," Milunovich wrote this week. 

 Wall Street veterans see the rising negativity as part of a healthy cycle, at least in the long run. 

 Technical analyst Ralph Acampora says bear market declines come in three stages: first complacency about falling prices, then rising concern over valuation, then capitulation, the final stage before the market shakes out the exuberance of the prior bull market to set the stage for higher highs. 

 Still, the transformation of Wall Street's technology bulls into bearish doubters is only partially completed. A Merrill Lynch full page advertisement in the Wall Street Journal this week carried the motto "Be bullish." 

Document lba0000020010822dwc1001vk
?
 

NEWS
Tech Stocks Plunge; Nervous investors back off amid signs that nation's economy is cooling off

David Lazarus; Chronicle Staff Writer   
1,044 words
1 December 2000
The San Francisco Chronicle
SFC
FINAL
A1
English
Copyright 2000. Hearst Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

Wall Street took a pounding yesterday as investors, already spooked by a profit warning from computer giant Gateway, scattered for cover amid signs that a slowing economy could cut even more deeply into corporate profits.

While a spurt of late-session bargain hunting erased some of the heavier losses, the Nasdaq, which has now lost nearly half its value since peaking in March, took a heavy beating. But the Dow Jones Industrial Average also logged triple-digit declines.

Analysts are not optimistic about the market's immediate prospects.

"We're in a bear market," declared Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at First Albany in New York. "The stock market is going down."

The Nasdaq plunged 109 points, or 4 percent, to close yesterday at a 15- month low of 2,597.93. And there is still no bottom in sight, many analysts said.

Bay Area residents, perhaps more than most people, are watching the Nasdaq's demise with increasing anxiety. The region's economic well-being depends greatly on the fortunes of Silicon Valley, and many workers' 401(k) plans are chock-full of tech shares.

October is historically the month when bad things happen to Wall Street, but November saw the Nasdaq's worst performance since 1987, down 23 percent.

For the year, the Nasdaq has nosedived 36 percent, putting the tech-heavy index on track for the biggest annual setback in its 29-year history. (However, it was up 86 percent last year alone.)

The Dow tumbled 214.62 points yesterday to 10,414.49, and the broader Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 26.96 points to 1,314.95.

"All stocks are under a cloud because of what happened to Gateway, as well as because of the election uncertainty," said Ulric Weil, an analyst at Friedman, Billings, Ramsey in Arlington, Va.

After the closing bell Wednesday, Gateway, the No. 2 direct seller of personal computers, said its fourth-quarter earnings would be way off analysts' expectations because of weak holiday sales. Gateway's stock plummeted more than 35 percent yesterday to $19.

Other leading tech companies were caught in the downdraft. Dell Computer Corp. fell almost 12 percent to $19.25, Intel Corp. dropped 11 percent to $38. 06 and Microsoft Corp. slid 12 percent to $57.38.

Chipmaker Altera Corp., which issued its own profit warning late Wednesday, shed almost 8 percent to $23.94.

As Gateway's warning sent a chill through the tech sector, the broader market was jolted by the latest economic numbers, which suggested that the "soft landing" sought by the Federal Reserve may turn out to be a lot rougher than previously thought.

The Commerce Department said U.S. incomes fell in October for the first time in almost two years while consumer spending inched slightly higher, pushing the savings rate to a record low of minus 0.8 percent.

At the same time, the Labor Department said first-time applications for unemployment benefits spiked last week to the highest level in more than two years: 358,000 claims filed.

Investors had been heartened in recent months by each new sign of a slowing economy. Slower growth was seen as deterring the Fed from raising interest rates any higher. Market players are now worried that the economy is slowing too much, threatening corporate earnings.

"The soft landing is starting to look like a hard landing," said the widely respected Johnson said.

"There is concern in the marketplace that a recession is possible next year, " agreed Kevin Caron, associate strategist at Gruntal & Co. in New York.

Most analysts expect Fed chief Alan Greenspan to respond to this concern by announcing an easing of monetary policy when the central bank's policy-making committee convenes Dec. 19.

This would pave the way for a cut in interest rates in early 2001. The Fed has increased rates six times since mid-1999 to put the brakes on the country's turbocharged economic growth.

If stocks continue to crumble, Friedman's Weil said Greenspan may feel compelled to act even sooner.

"We could have panic striking," he said, "and then the Fed would have to step in earlier."

For the time being, Weil expects investors to continue shunning tech stocks, many of which have come down more than 50 percent in value this year, and to instead seek out so-called defensive plays in other sectors.

"Tech stocks are still viewed as overvalued," he said. "Even at these levels, they're probably 10 percent to 15 percent overvalued."

First Albany's Johnson adopted a more Darwinian tone, arguing that share prices in fact are undergoing a natural process.

"This is the way bubbles end," he said. "You can't call it a bad or a good thing. It's just part of our financial markets' lives. We overdo it on the upside, and then we overdo it on the downside."

Investors are wondering if yesterday's across-the-board losses represent the moment of "capitulation" on Wall Street that typically marks the end of a prolonged sell-off.

"We're getting near that point," said Ken Winans of Winans International in Mill Valley. "The selling is getting to be a bit overdone."

While he said it's probably too soon to go bottom-feeding for tech stocks, investors may be wise to take a closer look at some of the relatively strong performers among financial, pharmaceutical and retail stocks.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---- Unsettled InvestorsFactors contributing to Wall Street's decline: -- Uncertainty about the presidency is making investors nervous. -- Warnings by leading companies that earnings are coming in below expectations. -- Fears raised by a slowing economy that corporate profits will remain sluggish. -- Questions about whether the Federal Reserve will cut interest rates.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------CHART: TECH WRECKMany of Silicon Valley's signature stocks have tumbled badly recently. Yesterday's 52 week closing price highSUN $76.06 $129.31CISCO $47.88 $82ORACLE $26.50 $46.44JDS/UNIPHASE $50.06 $153.38HEWLETT-PACKARD $31.63 $78APPLE $16.50 $75.38 YAHOO $39.63 $250.06INTEL $38.06 $75.81EBAY $34.31 $127.50

E-mail David Lazarus at dlazarus@sfchronicle.com.

Document SFC0000020120703dwc1006hp
?
 

 Ford Issues  Profit Warning ; Big Three Auto Makers Post November Sales Declines 

1,361 words
1 December 2000
14:58
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Ford Motor Co. reported a 7.2% decline in U.S. vehicle sales for November and announced plans to reduce production and close some plants temporarily in December. The auto maker also warned fourth-quarter earnings will fall short of Wall Street's expectations. 

 DaimlerChrysler AG (DCX) reported a 5% decline in its U.S. vehicle sales for November and announced plans to idle more North American factories. 

 General Motors Corp. (GM) said November sales fell 8.4%, as both car and truck sales declined. The drop was somewhat bigger than expected; GM last week predicted an industry-wide slowdown of 4% to 7% for November from a year earlier, and warned that its sales would fall accordingly. 

 Ford (F) said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission that it expects to report fourth-quarter earnings of 75 cents a share. Analysts were expecting the auto maker to earn 85 cents a share, according to the mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Ford, the No. 2 auto maker, said it plans to cut fourth-quarter North American production by 38,000 vehicles. The company expects to produce 1.072 million vehicles -- 367,000 cars and 705,000 trucks -- in North America for the quarter, a drop of 19,000 cars and 19,000 trucks. In the fourth quarter of 1999, Ford produced 1.149 million vehicles. 

 The company also plans to temporarily idle production at two passenger-car plants the week of Dec. 18, Ford spokesman George Pipas said. The spokesman declined to specify which plants are involved, noting such details typically are announced a week before production halts. 

 Ford, meanwhile, also said it expects 7,000 fewer imports of its Volvo, Jaguar, Land Rover and Fiesta models into North America for the fourth quarter. 

 In addition, Ford lowered its planned fourth-quarter overseas sales to dealers by 28,000 vehicles. Most of this reduction is attributable to European production cuts, which includes lower production of the Mondeo model because of a key component shortage resulting from flooding at a supplier's facility. 

 As for November results, Ford's U.S. total vehicle sales fell 7.2% to 300,665 from 324,133 in November 1999. U.S. sales of passenger cars fell 16% to 111,086 and truck sales slipped 0.9% to 189,579. 

 Results also were hurt by a 12% drop in sales of Ford's Explorer sport-utility vehicle, which is involved in the Firestone tire recall. 

 GM, the No. 1 auto maker, said it sold a total of 320,992 cars and trucks in November, down from 350,328 a year earlier. Truck sales fell 8.1% to 163,214 and car sales fell 8.6% to 157,778. Light-truck sales fell 7.6% to 161,889. 

 GM said it had expected industry sales to moderate in the second half compared to very strong sales last year. The company added that growing sales in the truck market remain an important element of its performance and it is "on track to set an all time record for truck sales this calendar year." 

 "We anticipated that industry sales would moderate in the second half compared to last year's record pace, and while demand is moderating, sales remain healthy on an historical basis," Bill Lovejoy, group vice president of GM's North America vehicle sales, service and marketing, said in a prepared statement. "In this extremely competitive industry, we are working hand-in-hand with our dealers to focus our products in key markets that offer consumers outstanding value." 

 DaimlerChrysler said November U.S. sales fell 5%, with the steepest declines coming in sales of cars and minivans. 

 U.S. car sales fell 15% to 45,959 units for the month and minivan sales dropped 16% to 28,902 units. Truck sales declined 2% to 138,106 units while sales of SUVs rose 6% to 62,461. Total sales fell to 184,065 vehicles. 

 The embattled German-American auto maker described the marketplace as highly competitive and saturated. Combined with excess inventory, the company said immediate action is needed. 

 Of its 12 U.S. and Canadian assembly plants, DaimlerChrysler plans to operate 10 facilities during the week of Dec. 4, idling plants in Newark, Del.; and St. Louis. The following week, DaimlerChrysler will operate 11 plants, close its Windsor, Ontario, facility, and for the week of Dec. 18., the auto maker plans to operate seven facilities, closing assembly plants in Belvidere, Ill.; Brampton, Ontario; Detroit; St. Louis; and Toledo, Ohio. 

 Last week, Chrysler idled three factories in order to reduce overflowing inventories at dealerships. The closings left 13,600 auto workers without jobs that week. 

 Overall, according to economists' calculations, cars and light trucks produced in North America were sold in the U.S. at an annual rate of about 13.6 million in November. Cars were sold at a 6.4 million pace, economists said, while light trucks were sold at a 7.2 million rate. 

 In October, autos were sold at about a rate of about 14 million. Auto sales have eroded steadily from their 2000 peak in the spring, when the North American-made sales pace was about 15 million. 

 The November figures are "significantly weaker than expected," said Joseph Abate, economist at Lehman Brothers, and suggest further downside risk to the overall economy. 

 Analysts and industry executives have been expecting the overall November results from auto makers to show more evidence of a cooling U.S. economy. 

 Indeed, Delphi Automotive Systems Corp. (DPH), a supplier to most manufacturers of light vehicles, said Friday that it will place more than 1,700 hourly employees, or about 3.1% of its hourly work force, on temporary layoff because of reduced volume. The employees who will be laid off work at facilities in Michigan, New York and Ohio. 

 Anticipating a weak showing, Wall Street analysts have reduced their investment ratings on several industry players. Investors are concerned that heavy discounting and production cuts will reduce profit for the Big Three. 

 Among other companies reporting November sales: 

 - Honda Motor Co. (HMC) said U.S. vehicle sales rose 3.5% to to 80,849 from 78,143 a year earlier. Total car sales rose 1.6% to 59,282 from 58,365; total truck sales rose 9% to 21,567 from 19, 778. 

 - Toyota Motor Corp.'s (TM) U.S. operations reported total vehicle sales rose 4.6% to 126,013. Sales in the Toyota unit rose 2.9% to 108,136 units, with light trucks up 18% to 46,947 on demand for its restyled Tacoma compact pickup. Toyota's Lexus unit sales rose 17% to 17,877, driven by the introduction of two redesigned vehicles. 

 - Nissan Motor Co.'s (NSANY) North America total sales, including its Nissan and Infinity divisions, rose 4.3% to 52,617. North America car sales rose 18% to 26,456, while truck sales fell 4.5% to 21,359. Total sales at the company's Nissan division were up 6.7% to 47,815. 

 - Volkswagen AG said its Volkswagen of America unit's November sales rose 8.7% to 26,597 vehicles. Jetta sales rose 18% to 11,517; Passat sales rose 7.9% to 6,101, and Golf sales rose nearly 94% to 2,430. Sales for the new Beetle fell to 5,716 from 6,922 a year earlier. Volkswagen's Audi of America Inc. unit said sales rose 9.9% to 6,556. 

 - Mazda Motor Corp.'s Mazda North American operations said November sales rose 8% to 18,726 vehicles. Car sales fell 19% to 9,488, while total truck sales rose 65% to 9,238. 

 - Hyundai Corp.'s Hyundai Motor America said sales rose 27% to 17,856 vehicles, boosted by sales of the Elantra and Santa Fe SUV. Hyndai said the Santa Fe is the newest addition to its model line-up; November Santa Fe sales were 3,627, with 6,476 so far for the year. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020020330dwc101o9m
?
 

 N.Y. Stocks Start Better; Hope Fades Facing Profit Fears 

 By Robert O'Brien 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
1,170 words
1 December 2000
21:38
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Early strength in high technology faded by the close of trading Friday, leaving technology issues modestly higher, with blue chip shares weaker on the day. 

 EMC gained $3.88 to $78.25, while electronics manufacturer Jabil gained 4.63 to 35.88, chip maker Analog Devices rose 2.75 to 52.38 and networker Juniper Networks rose 7.25 to 131.88 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. 

 The gains came as high-technology issues tried to work back from a persistent downdraft brought on Thursday by earnings warnings from computer maker Gateway and chip maker Altera. 

 Gateway inched into the black for Friday's session, adding 12 cents to end at 19.12, after having slumped to a two-year low in Thursday's trading, while Altera responded with a little more vigor, gaining 2.06 to 26 on Nasdaq, after it had dropped to a 52-week low Thursday. 

 For the month of November, the Nasdaq Composite Index dropped 23%, its worst one-month performance since October 1987. With analysts insisting that, whatever the profit problems in high technology, the sell-off had gone too far, the early action Friday favored the bulls. The bears who had short positions - essentially, bets that stock prices would fall further - had to scramble to cover those bets, adding more fuel to the recovery. 

 Traders started to flatten their positions, worrying that they wouldn't want to be holding big inventories of stock over a weekend that promised to bring further developments in the continuing election controversy. 

 Then in the final hours of the session, rumors began to circulate that the market faced more profit pessimism. Shares of Intel, which started weaker after Credit Suisse First Boston cut its earnings forecast for the chip maker to accommodate the company's exposure to the slackening PC sector, fell sharply. Traders reported rumors the chip maker would spook Wall Street with an earnings warning next week. 

 "Rumors like that can just stir things up in a market like this," Mark Donahoe, managing director of institutional sales trading at U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray, said Friday. 

 Intel shares finished 3.94 lower at 34.13 on Nasdaq, slumping to a 52-week low. 

 The Nasdaq Composite Index, which came into the trading session at its low for the year, did manage to finish in the black, up 47.36, or 1.82%, at 2645.29. But with the pressure from Intel, the Dow Jones Industrial Average closed on the downside, off 40.95, or 0.39%, at 10373.54. 

 The final Dow Jones Industrial Average close was 10373.54, down 40.95. On the New York Stock Exchange, there were 1,899 issues advancing, 985 declining and 415 unchanged. 

 NYSE volume totaled 1,179,913,900 shares, compared with 1,498,407,970 Thursday. 

 The NYSE Composite Index was 631.49, up 1.71. The average price per share rose 10 cents. 

 As lawyers for Gov. George Bush and Vice President Al Gore squared off before the Supreme Court, the contested presidential election started to encroach on Wall Street's confidence. 

 Drug stocks, one group widely presumed to benefit from a Bush Administration, gave up some recent gains. Merck fell 2.06 to 90.63, after having posted a 52-week high Thursday. Eli Lilly lost 3.63 to 90.06. 

 Concerns about ripe valuations in the sector following those drug makers' big run recently also contributed to the declines. Shares of Schering-Plough lost 2.44 to 53.63, while Pharmacia declined 3.50 to 57.50, after UBS Warburg lowered ratings, citing rich share prices. 

 Medical device makers also weakened, as Johnson & Johnson fell 2.25 to 97.75, as did health insurers, such as Cigna, which declined 3.84 to 127.91. 

 Other groups that have been successful recently simply languished, as investors felt they could get a little more aggressive with growth names, rather than pure defensive plays. Shares of Coca-Cola, for example, eased 44 cents to 62.19, while McDonald's dropped 94 cents to 30.94. 

 SBC Communications, one of the former regional Bell companies, a group that has held up better than almost any other in telecommunications, finished the session off 2.75 to 52.19. BellSouth lost 1.25 to 40.56. 

 For the week, the Dow industrial average finished down 96.69 points, or 0.92%, while the Nasdaq composite relinquished 259.2 points, or 8.9%. 

 Quaker Oats gained 1.69 to 88.63. A report in Friday's edition of The Wall Street Journal said that PepsiCo has come back to the bargaining table for negotiations to buy the food and beverage products maker for a reported $14.3 billion of stock. An earlier round of talks broke off a month ago. 

 PepsiCo shares declined 3 to 42.38. 

 Raytheon's Class A shares lost 4.63 to 27.75, while its Class B shares shed 5.25 to 29.81 The Lexington, Mass., defense electronics maker warned investors at a conference sponsored by Lehman Brothers that it expected 2001 earnings will come in a little lower than it previously forecast, suggesting that the company's recovery from its previous weakness has taken longer than officials had hoped. 

 General Dynamics fell 2.69 to 73.56, pulling back from the 52-week high recorded Thursday, moving in sympathy with Raytheon, even though the company made some bullish comments about its own earnings forecasts for 2003. Other defense contractors, such as Litton Industries, which fell 44 cents to 60, and Lockheed Martin, which declined 2.70 to 31.40, pulled back on the session as well. 

 Transocean Sedco gained 19 cents to 40.06, even though the Houston oil services concern warned that its fourth-quarter earnings would come in below forecasts. In a conference call with analysts, company officials said they expected demand for oil and gas drilling services would continue to improve next year. 

 Schlumberger, a New York oil services provider, added 4.75 to 66.75. The company and Baker Hughes said they completed the transaction that creates WesternGeco, a seismic joint venture. 

 Baker Hughes added 31 cents to 33.38. 

 Lowe's fell 1.19 to 38.88. Lehman Brothers lowered its earnings estimate on the N. Wilkesboro, N.C., home improvement retailer. 

 Jones Apparel Group gained 2.31 to 35. Lehman Brothers raised its price target on the Bristol, Pa., designer of women's apparel and footwear. 

 Auto makers worked higher after several stocks in the group fell to 52-week lows this week. General Motors gained 81 cents to 50.31, even though it reported that sales of its vehicles fell 8.4% in the U.S. in November. Ford Motor added 1.44 to 24.19, although the company said its fourth-quarter earnings would come in short of forecasts, owing to slower sales. 

5042

Document dj00000020010805dwc104hfr

Search Summary

 Text	((“profit*” same “warning*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”))) OR ((“profit*” same “fall*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“headwind” same “profit*”) (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”)))
 Date	12/01/2000 to 12/31/2000
 Source	All Sources
 Author	All Authors
 Company	All Companies
 Subject	Corporate/Industrial News
 Industry	All Industries
 Region	United States
 Language	English
 Results Found	261
 Timestamp	27 March 2018 10:30

 Page 2 of 2     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

