 
•	 Warren Buffett's Annual Letter to Berkshire Hathaway Shareholders: 2000 (No. of pages: 20)
•	  Eidos 9-Months Pretax Loss GBP68.0M Vs GBP12.6M 
•	 JDS Uniphase Slashes 3,000 Jobs; Customers overordered company's fiber optics
•	  Texas Instruments cuts 1Q forecast again. 
•	 Adidas Salomon slides on Nike profit forecast  cut .
•	  Israeli stocks edge lower as Wall Street sags at open. 
•	  MARKET TALK: Niku Shrs Fall Despite Higher 2002 Forecast 
•	  AutoZone's 2nd-Quarter Net Income Fell 19% 
•	  Texas Instruments cuts 1Q forecast again. 
•	  UPDATE 4-Procter & Gamble sees 2nd half hurt by Turkish lira. 
•	  U.S. blue-chip stocks cling to gains, tech stocks backpedal. 
•	  Procter & Gamble sees second half hurt by Turkey. 
•	  UPDATE 3-Texas Instruments trims Q1 outlook again. 
•	  UPDATE 3-Procter & Gamble sees second half hurt by Turkish lira. 
•	 U.S. stocks buoyed by interest rate  cut  hopes.
•	  UPDATE 4-Procter & Gamble sees 2nd half hurt by Turkish lira. 
•	  UPDATE 2-Texas Instruments trims Q1 outlook again. 
•	  U.S. stocks seen up at open. 
•	 U.S. blue chips extend gains amid rate- cut  hopes.
•	  Texas Instruments lowers Q1 outlook again. 
•	  UPDATE 1-Texas Instruments lowers Q1 outlook again. 
•	  Texas Instruments lowers first quarter outlook again. 
•	  Orica stays on slide after profit downgrade. 
•	 UPDATE 1-ERG slumps as Motorola link  cut .
•	  Texas Inst Outlook More Than Simple Inventory Correction 
•	  Nortel's Roth Comes Under Fire.(Company Business and Marketing) 
•	 Nike Issues  Profit Warning , Cites Weak U.S. Revenue, Supply-System Woes
•	  Sun's 3rd-Quarter Profit May Be Half of Estimates --- Server Maker Blames U.S. Economic Slowdown 
•	  UPDATE 3-Motorola sees first-quarter shortfall, perhaps loss. [CORRECTED] 
•	  UPDATE 6-Motorola sees first-quarter shortfall, perhaps loss. 
•	  UPDATE 5-Motorola sees first-quarter shortfall, perhaps loss. 
•	  UPDATE 4-Motorola sees first-quarter shortfall, perhaps loss. 
•	  Motorola sounds alarm bell. 
•	  UPDATE 2-Motorola sees first-quarter shortfall, perhaps loss. 
•	  UPDATE 1-Motorola sees first-quarter shortfall, perhaps loss. 
•	  Mobile phone show brings industry back to earth. 
•	  UPDATE 7-Motorola sees first-quarter shortfall, perhaps loss. 
•	  Eurostocks end at 16-month lows as techs crumble. 
•	  CORRECTED-UPDATE 3-Motorola sees Q1 shortfall, perhaps loss. 
•	  Sun Says Profit May Be Half Of Forecasts 
•	  Qualcomm: Delay In Europe Will Be For WCDMA, Not All 3G 
•	  MARKET TALK: Big-Time Drops In Big-Time Names 
•	  MARKET TALK: Microsoft Higher Despite Tech Sell-Off 
•	  MARKET TALK: Semis Don't Escape Friday Selloff 
•	  RESEARCH ALERT-UBS cuts earnings forecasts for Nortel. 
•	  U.S. blue chips seen up at open - Brocade to pressure techs. 
•	  Israeli stocks edge lower, overcome Turkey troubles. 
•	  ADC Telecom '01 Earnings Revision Viewed As Modest 
•	  ABN Amro Earns At Top End, But Underlying Growth Slow 
•	  Coldwater Creek Cuts 160 Workers At Idaho, W.Va. Locations 
•	  Israeli stocks dip as Nasdaq slides, U.S. CPI jumps. 
•	  Israel's Nice delays Q4 results to Feb 26. 
•	  ADC Telecom Again Reduces 2001 Profit Target 
•	  Canada's CGI Group to Acquire IMRglobal for $438 Million, Including Debt 
•	 Randstad  Cautious  Over Uncertain Demand For Temp Staff
•	  ADC Telecom 1Q Oper Net 7c/Share 
•	  Nortel nightmare deepens: shares fall 11% amid lawsuits, rumours of lawsuits 
•	  Abercrombie & Fitch 4Q Net 76c/Share Vs 73c 
•	  WSJ.COM WRAP: Home Depot's 4Q Profit Hurt By Slowdown 
•	  Home Depot 4Q Net 20c/Diluted Shr Vs 25c 
•	  Home Depot Posts 20% Profit Drop, Says Slow Economy, Weak Lumber Prices May Hurt 1st-Quarter Sales 
•	 CLECexpo Spring 2001 Exhibitor Profiles; Conference and Exposition Begins This Week in New York
•	  Canadian dollar ends up, breaks 5-day losing streak. 
•	  Eurostocks fall as telecoms hit, cyclicals shine. 
•	  Alcatel confident of meeting forecast. 
•	  Nortel's Roth defends records, says he's sticking around by Stefanie Batcho 
•	  Singapore shares close 1.2 percent lower 
•	 Air New Zealand Limited (NS); HY TO 31/12 $3.781m ($127.234m)-97% DIV 4CPS  Air New Zealand Limited (NS);   
•	 Gaining control: PacifiCare beyond medicare
•	 Dell's Shares  Decline  After  Warning  on  Profit  --- Computer Maker Cuts Staff for First Time --- Flat Net Income Predicted
•	  Gypsum may scuttle Hardie. 
•	  Canadian bonds end four-day losing streak. 
•	  U.S. Treasuries up early as world tech stocks slip. 
•	  U.S. tech stocks to fall at open after slew of profit warnings. 
•	 RESEARCH ALERT-JP Morgan, Salomon  cut  Hewlett-Packard.
•	  UPDATE 1-Canadian bonds sharply higher at midafternoon. 
•	  Most US Treasuries fall on shock inflation report. 
•	  U.S. stocks to drop at open on strong PPI, gloomy tech outlook. 
•	 UPDATE 1-Japan's Furukawa falls on Nortel  profit warning .
•	 Japan's Furukawa tumbles on Nortel  profit warning .
•	  Jobs axe set to fall at technology giants 
•	  Sema Seeks To Reassure Investors With Early FY Results 
•	  Moody's maintains rating on Nortel despite earnings warning 
•	  Tokyo stocks end lower on telecoms, currency concerns 
•	  Nightly Business Report 
•	  Hewlett-Packard Could See Rev Growth Improving In 2H 
•	 COLDWATER TAKES A POUNDING -  
•	  U.S. tech stocks up on semiconductors, blue chips off. 
•	  U.S. tech stocks rally on semiconductors, blue chips fall. 
•	  FFBN Tech Wrap: Chip Equipment Index Surges 12% 
•	  Schlumberger says Sema not ideal takeover. 
•	  RESEARCH ALERT-CSFB cuts Nice target. 
•	 Debt Rating For Lucent Is  Cut  Again
•	  Briefly 
•	  Technology Journal: Bizbytes 
•	  'Earnings recession' more immediate worry for US stocks. 
•	  Dell Computer Prepares Cost Cuts, May Trim Staff --- Managers Expect Reductions Of 8% to 10% in Expenses 
•	  UPDATE 2-Toshiba, NEC eye raising Rambus DRAM output. 
•	  Bookham prepares market for poorer quarter. 
•	  BT or not BT? That is the question for London investors by Mark Rice- Oxley 

 Warren Buffett's Annual Letter to Berkshire Hathaway Shareholders: 2000 (No. of pages: 20)
Berkshire Hathaway Shareholder Letters, 28 February 2001, 13822 words, Warren Buffett, (English)
2 Note: The following table appears in the printed Annual Report on the facing page of the Chairman's Letter and is referred to in that letter. Berkshire’s Corporate Performance vs. the S&P 500 Annual Percentage Change in Per-Share in ...



 Eidos 9-Months Pretax Loss GBP68.0M Vs GBP12.6M 

422 words
28 February 2001
07:06
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 Corrected 0753GMT 

 0711GMT 


Eidos PLC - London
      9 months Dec. 31:
                          2000           1999
Pretax profit  a- (GBP13.9 mln)  (GBP12.6 mln)
Pretax profit        (68.0 mln)     (12.6 mln)
Sales                137.8 mln      142.6 mln
Earnings per share  a-  (13.4p)        (12.1p)
Earnings per share      (65.6p)        (12.1p)



a. Before exceptional items.



Figures in parentheses are losses.



Eidos said it is confident its strategy of developing and publishing
games based on its core brands and franchises, combined with a sustained
review and reduction of the fixed-cost base of the business, should
allow a return to profitability in the next financial year.



Analysts have a full-year consensus pretax loss expectation of GBP19.7
million.



It said the success of next generation consoles from Sony Corp. (SNE),
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) and Nintendo Co. Ltd. (J.NTD) will be the primary
driver for growth in 2001, though it remains cautious about trading over
the next nine to 12 months due to the recent difficulties in the market.



The company issued a profit warning last month saying delays in the
release of a number of new titles, due partly to supply shortages of
Sony's new Play Station 2 consoles, would have an impact on its
performance.



The warnings came despite a buoyant Christmas trading period, boosted
by sales of 'Who Wants To Be A Millionaire' and its 'Championship
Manager' football game and followed a drop in its first-half results in
November 2000, when it was hit by difficult trading conditions and the
legal expenses of abortive takeover talks.



-By Nic Fildes, Dow Jones Newswires; 44-20-7842-9307;
nicolas.fildes@dowjones.com



LONDON (Dow Jones)--U.K. computer games manufacturer Eidos PLC (EIDSY)
said Wednesday that its pretax loss before exceptional items for the
nine months to Dec. 31, 2000, widened to GBP13.9 million from GBP12.6
million for the same period in 1999.



The company said its pretax loss after taking account of exceptional
items dropped to GBP68.0 million.



The company, which created 'Tomb Raider' hero Lara Croft, reported a
loss per share before exceptional items of 13.4 pence compared with a
loss per share of 12.1 pence in the same period a year before. Sales for
the period fell to GBP137.8 million from GBP142.6 million the year
before.



It said its 'Who Wants To Be A Millionaire' computer game sold in
excess of one million units in the U.K.


Document dji0000020010711dx2s00vvm




NET WORTH
BUSINESS
JDS Uniphase Slashes 3,000 Jobs; Customers overordered company's fiber optics

Kathleen Pender   
1,158 words
28 February 2001
The San Francisco Chronicle
SFC
FINAL
C1
English
Copyright 2001. Hearst Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

Few companies have had a harder fall from grace than JDS Uniphase.

A year ago, the San Jose maker of fiber-optic components was Wall Street's homecoming king, football captain and class president, all rolled into one.

Today, it can barely get a date to the dance.

JDS is hardly some dot-com headed toward the emergency exit. It's still the leader in a promising field and just got bigger, thanks to its acquisition of rival SDL Inc.

The main problem is that JDS got in tight with the momentum crowd.

Momentum investors "are bipolar. They either love (a stock) or they hate it. They can switch those views very quickly as well," says Max Schuetz, an analyst with Thomas Weisel Partners.

Last March, JDS stock hit a high of $146.53, which was more than 700 times earnings per share.

Yesterday, it closed at $27.81, which was only 38 times estimated earnings per share.

JDS stock has fallen so hard that its PEG ratio -- the estimated price/earnings ratio divided by expected earnings growth over the coming year - - is now 0.84, according to Bloomberg.

A PEG ratio below 1 usually signals that a stock might be undervalued. But I couldn't find anyone yesterday who thinks JDS is cheap.

That's because nobody is confident that JDS will meet earnings estimates, even though they've come down sharply since the company issued a profit warning Feb. 13.

Analysts now predict JDS will earn 17 cents in both the March and June quarters and 72 cents for the fiscal year ending in June.

If estimates went lower, the PEG ratio would go up, making JDS look like less of a bargain. A PEG ratio higher than 1 implies a stock is overvalued.

"Consensus expectations are clearly too high," says Jeff Wrona, who manages the momentum-oriented PBHG Technology and Communications fund.

The analysts I talked to don't even believe their own earnings estimates but aren't sure where to put them.

"The feedback we get from the company and the industry is that visibility into March and June is very low. We're not sure what order patterns look like, what revenue growth looks like," says Charlie Wilhoit, an analyst with J.P. Morgan. "The company doesn't know what (orders) will ship, what will get canceled."

JDS makes components that go into fiber-optic systems that use pulses of light to transmit voice, video and data at superfast speeds.

It is by far the largest stand-alone maker of components, although it competes with divisions of Corning, Lucent, Nortel Networks and Alcatel.

JDS sells components -- such as lasers, amplifiers and modulators -- to companies that integrate them into systems.

Systemsmakers include Ciena, Sycamore Networks and divisions of Cisco, Lucent, Nortel, Tellabs and Alcatel.

These companies sell systems to service providers such as Qwest, WorldCom, Level 3 and Williams Communications.

HOW IT UNRAVELED: Twelve to 18 months ago, the traffic on the Internet and corporate networks was exploding, and the demand for fiber-optic components -- which are hard to make -- far outstripped supply.

Companies like JDS sold everything they could make and developed huge order backlogs.

As a result, nervous customers began ordering more than they needed and stockpiling inventory. This led to even bigger orders, which produced more shortages, which caused more stockpiling and . . . well, you get the picture.

What happened next was that the service providers at the top of the food chain suddenly stopped buying older-generation equipment. Many of them relied on junk bonds for capital and ran out of money when the junk bond market collapsed last year.

Around the same time, the growth in Internet traffic started to moderate, which also slowed the demand for equipment.

Meanwhile, equipment-makers continued to expand their capacity.

For a while, the slowdown in capital spending didn't seem to hurt companies like JDS, because they had such big backlogs. But suddenly, it did.

"Things were good until the second week of December, then it fell off a cliff," says Schuetz.

"We've created a bubble that will take awhile to work through," he says.

Although JDS hasn't disclosed the size of the bubble, Schuetz points out that Nortel, a major customer, now has 82 days' worth of all types of inventory, up from 70 days recently. Cisco, another JDS customer, has 90 days' worth of inventory, up from 45 days, and has said inventories will go higher before they go lower.

WHAT COMES NEXT: How long it takes customers to deplete their inventories and begin ordering again depends on a wide variety of factors, including the economy, service providers' access to capital and growth in Internet traffic.

Most analysts and investors I spoke with don't expect to see any pickup for at least one to two quarters, and maybe more.

Because it's near the end of the fiber-optic food chain, JDS was late in feeling the effects of the slowdown, "and it may be late in feeling the effects of the pickup," says Ned Brines, a portfolio manager with Roger Engemann & Associates.

Arnab Chanda, an analyst with Lehman Bros., warns that even if revenues pick up, smaller competitors trying to stay in business might cut prices, and that could hurt profit margins.

"Right now everyone assumes there's a demand problem; pricing is not something that has been really recognized," he says.

"JDS is best positioned for this kind of downturn, but there's still a downturn," Chanda adds.

Wrona seems to agree. JDS "is still the dominant provider in its industry, and it's not losing market share as far as we can tell. The long-term growth prospects are huge," he says. "If you have a 12-month outlook, it's as attractive as a lot of other companies out there."

From a momentum investor, that's hardly a ringing endorsement.

MORE ON GAS BILLS: Last Friday's column on inflation and energy prices stated that in the Bay Area, PG&E charged $1.42 per therm for natural gas in January.

Plenty of readers wrote or called to tell me that they were charged $1.72 per therm in January.

That's because PG&E also charges a natural gas delivery fee. I mentioned the delivery fee in my column, but a lot of people overlooked it, probably because I didn't give the price.

For the record, PG&E charges a fluctuating commodity cost ($1.42 in January) plus a fixed delivery fee of 30 cents per therm below baseline and 50 cents above baseline. Baseline is 60 to 70 percent of the average gas usage per household in a given climate region during the winter.

Net Worth runs Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays. E-mail Kathleen Pender at kpender@sfchronicle.com.

Document SFC0000020120703dx2s00axa




 Texas Instruments cuts 1Q forecast again. 

126 words
28 February 2001
Channelnewsasia
CNEWAS
English
(c) 2001 MediaCorp News Pte Ltd. All Rights Reserved

 Texas Instruments, the number one maker of computer chips for cell phones, has cut its first-quarter revenue outlook for the second time in five weeks, blaming the US economic slowdown for the shortfall. 

 The company, the latest to be hit by the telecoms industry's less than bright outlook, expects slower sales across all product lines. 

 It expects first-quarter revenue to fall 20 percent from the US$3 billion posted last quarter, in addition to the 10 percent fall forecasted just last month. 

 The lower estimate follows a profit warning last Friday from Motorola, the No. 2 maker of mobile phone handsets. 

 Analysts are not surprised; most expect poorer business conditions on the back of an economic slowdown. 

Document cnewas0020010710dx2s006bz




 Adidas Salomon slides on Nike profit forecast  cut . 

168 words
27 February 2001
08:52
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 FRANKFURT, Feb 27 (Reuters) - Shares in German sportswear and equipment maker Adidas Salomon AG fell over four percent on Tuesday after its U.S. peer Nike cut its profit forecast for the third quarter, traders said. 

 By 0842 GMT, Adidas stock was trading 4.20 percent lower at 71.25 euros. The blue chip DAX index was 0.22 percent down. 

 Almost 203,000 shares had been traded, making Adidas the sixth most traded stock on the Xetra electronic trading system. 

 Traders said Adidas shares were falling after Nike said on Monday that it expected third-quarter earnings to fall at least 24 percent from its previous forecast, blaming software problems for too much inventory and order delays. 

 "It's the Nike profit warning that's hurting," said one trader. 

 Adidas stock has lost some 10 percent since touching a year-peak last month. The stock is currently trading 52 percent above a 12-month low hit in February 2000. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2r05c4r




 Israeli stocks edge lower as Wall Street sags at open. 

476 words
27 February 2001
16:48
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 TEL AVIV, Feb 27 (Reuters) - Israeli stocks ended marginally lower on Tuesday as early gains were erased late in the day when it appeared U.S. markets would open lower, dealers said. 

 "The market opened a little higher because all the news was positive. We had an interest rate cut... and a unity government was formally approved by the Labour Party and Wall Street rose (on Monday)," said Richard Gussow of Lehman Brothers in Tel Aviv. 

 "But the market faded during the day. Futures in the United States pointed to a down market and that weighed on us," Gussow said. 

 The Nasdaq composite opened about 2.0 percent lower on Tuesday. 

 Just before the market closed on Monday, the Bank of Israel lowered its key lending rate by 0.2 percentage point to an annual 7.5 percent. It was the eighth straight monthly cut and 14th in the past 16 months, in which the lending rate has been lowered four points. 

 On Monday night, the left-centre Labour Party voted to join Prime Minister elect Ariel Sharon's right-wing Likud party in a national unity government - a move the market had hoped for. 

 The blue-chip Tel Aviv 25 index ended 0.22 percent lower at 465.08 points, while the broader TA-100 index inched 0.06 percent lower to 451.01 points. 

 The technology TelTech index gained 1.1 percent. 

 Turnover remained very low at 153.5 million shekels compared with 166.9 million shekels on Monday. 

 Elite Industries , one of Israel's largest publically traded food manufacturers, plunged 11 percent to 174.70 shekels after it issued a fourth-quarter profit warning. 

 Elite said its consolidated net profits in the fourth quarter and year 2000 were hit by a significant fall in profits from its Elite International unit. 

 "The company estimates net profit in the fourth quarter will be about 0-2 million shekels," Elite said in a statement, adding that consolidated net profits in 2000 would be about 100 million shekels ($24.2 million). 

 Among blue-chips, Bezeq Israel Telecom slipped 1.2 percent on fears that a combined entity of Ofek Communications and cellular provider Cellcom will be able to effectively compete against Bezeq - currently a monopoly - in the domestic phone market. 

 Teva Pharmaceutical Industries remained on a roll, posting a 2.8 percent rise on the back of gains in its New York traded shares. 

 Similarly, the recently battered Nice Systems jumped 6.7 percent to close an arbitrage gap with its Nasdaq shares, traders said. Nice reversed a 6.8 percent loss from Monday after it reported poor fourth quarter earnings. 

 -Tel Aviv 100 index constituents 

 -Tel Aviv 25 index constituents 

 -Tel Aviv 100 index 

 -Tel Aviv 25 index 

 -Tel Aviv technology index 

 ($1 = 4.12 shekels). 

Document lba0000020010713dx2r05b8s




 MARKET TALK: Niku Shrs Fall Despite Higher 2002 Forecast 

1,441 words
27 February 2001
17:24
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



12:25 (Dow Jones) Shares of California concern Niku (NIKU) - not to be
confused with the equally ailing Nike - were off 35% Monday when the
services revenue management company revealed its Days Sales Outstanding
spiked 42 days sequentially to 132 days and CFO Mark Nelson announced he
was stepping down to spend time with his family. Goldman Sachs and Dain
Rauscher downgraded the shares, despite a slightly higher fiscal 2002
forecast from Niku. (MM)



12:15 (Dow Jones) Broadcom (BRCM), Cisco (CSCO) and JDS Uniphase
(JDSU) are among high profile tech stocks trading "on a plane curve
formed by the intersection of the right circular cone and a plan
parallel to an element of the cone," one market strategist said. The
parabolic formation may end up being a positive, said Mark Minervini,
president of Quantech Research Group, because in times past the pattern
has culminated with a crescendo of selling. "Such an ugly finish should
be welcome," Minervini said. "It ought to shatter the complacent move
overhanging the market and allow the Nasdaq to put in its final low."
(KJT)



12:03 (Dow Jones) National Assn. of Manufacturers Pres. Jasinowski
says "the simple implication to be drawn from today's (durable goods)
report is that the Federal Reserve should cut interest rates by one-half
a point immediately." (JC)



11:54 (Dow Jones) The California energy crisis is definitely on the
minds of investors, a PaineWebber and Gallup survey discovered. About
44% of those polled see it as part of a larger energy problem that could
affect the rest of the country, and 90% believe California's problems
will affect the rest of the country. PaineWebber's Chief Fixed Income
Strategist Michael Ryan said although other criteria are more important
in influencing one's investment-making decisions, in the current
climate, these sentiments obviously give investors reason to pause
before making an investment choice. (CCC)



11:48 (Dow Jones) Stocks attempting to rebound, but volatile. Hey,
maybe it has something to do with the Fed. Talk seems to be heating up
that central bankers are going to pull the trigger on an ease later
today. Do you think Bush might appreciate that as he goes on the tube
for his first big speech tonight? Then Greenspan can explain to us what
has changed so much from two weeks ago when he speaks tomorrow.
Anyway...The technicians say stocks are oversold, but maybe not ready to
break out completely, while argument for 2H recovery is fading, with or
without Fed help. DJIA up 35 at 10675, Nasdaq drops 30 to 2278, and S&P
500 adds 3 to 1270. (TG)



11:43 (Dow Jones) A nice NYSE debut from CNOOC Ltd. (CEO), the
overseas listing of China National Offshore Oil Co. ADRs are up 6.4% on
their first day of trading, roughly a week after the company raised more
than $1 billion in an IPO led by Merrill Lynch, Credit Suisse First
Boston, and BOC International. (RJH)



11:28 (Dow Jones) 3Com (COMS) appears "challenged" to meet analysts'
views for its fiscal 3Q ending Wednesday, says JPMorgan H&Q analyst Erik
Suppiger. The First Call/Thomson Financial consensus predicts the
network equipment maker will lose 14 cents a share. Suppiger originally
predicted revenue of $740 million, but he notes that markets for several
3Com product lines are weak. 3Com shares trade at roughly one time
projected revenues for calender 2001. That seems low, but Suppiger is
cautious and maintains his market perform rating. (PDL)



11:24 (Dow Jones) If the Fed moves, it will likely do so by early
afternoon today, says a notable chorus of Wall Streeters. The Fed has
the confidence data and it likely has a good indication of Thursday's
NAPM already. Moving Wednesday steps into a political minefield because
of Greenspan's Congressional visit. That leaves today as the best
opportunity to move, and pricing in swaps and mortgages, and Treasury
bills reflect this sentiment. (MSD)



11:21 (Dow Jones) Frontier Airlines (FRNT) down sharply after having
broken a string of quarters of earnings growth with a profit warning.
The regional carrier's net will grow only 5% in March, and one analyst
believes the slowdown will continue for two more quarters. Frontier's
results will look particularly bad if compared with last summer's, the
analyst said, when Frontier picked up traffic from United Airlines
(UAL), which was having labor problems. (ELM)



11:17 (Dow Jones) Day One of the CBOE's move to trade QQQ, or Nasdaq
100 Trust, options and already they are dominating early action at the
Chicago exchange. In first trading hour, the QQQ options were the most
active at the CBOE, trading 8,170 contracts of the out-of-the-money
March 55 calls and 4,250 contracts of the April 55 calls, as the Nasdaq
dips. The QQQ options also were active at the Amex, trading more than
3,683 contracts of the March 55 calls and 2,882 contracts of the March
50 calls. (KXT)



11:12 (Dow Jones) It's not a good day to be in Nike's (NKE) shoes.
Investors are running from it and other shoe makers after its late
Monday warning that implementation problems with a supply and demand
planning system will push its fiscal 3Q earnings and revenue below
forecast. But Wells Fargo Van Kasper analyst John Shanley expects Nike's
woes to fill the coffers of Venator Group (Z) and Footstar (FTS). Reebok
(RBK), K-Swiss (KSWS), New Balance and others should also benefit from
Nike's waning market share, he says. (HHH)



10:59 (Dow Jones) S&P says Freddie Mac's (FRE) inherent credit
quality, without assuming an infusion of cash from the Federal
government, means it gets an AA- "risk to the government credit rating."
One analyst responds immediately by saying "that's really bad news."
Shares flat. (RGB)



10:54 (Dow Jones) Harris Corp. (HRS) falls 10% on disappointing
revenue and earnings outlook for fiscal year '01. Cites slowdown in
telecom market. Adams, Harkness & Hill sees investors taking
"wait-and-see stance on the shares, compressing the valuation." (AF)



10:48 (Dow Jones) Business outside the U.S. is no longer a safety net
for DoubleClick (DCLK), say Goldman Sachs analysts. In the 2H of last
year, the online advertising firm's weak domestic business was offset by
overseas growth. But "in recent months, international media sales have
slowed dramatically and we believe that DCLK is faced with overcapacity
in various regions abroad," the analysts wrote. The slowdown is one
reason Goldman cut its 2001 revenue estimate to $529.9 million from
$555.1 million. The call for 5% revenue growth from 2000 is beneath the
company's most recent guidance of 6% to 12%. (PDL)



10:44 (Dow Jones) Harsh weather will chill many February restaurant
sales figures, but Deutsche Banc's John Glass says investors shouldn't
over-react. February is the slowest month for many chains, the analyst
notes. He remains bullish on the category, saying the industry's
relative stability "represents a haven in the current market." (RLG)



10:39 (Dow Jones) Lowe's Cos.' (LOW) expansion plans, which were
announced Monday, will be a positive for Valspar Corp. (VAL), said
Salomon Smith Barney analyst Gil Yang. As the Minneapolis paint-maker's
biggest customer, Lowe's accounts for 7% of Valspar's revenue, Yang
estimates. He expects the store expansion to boost Valspar's annual
revenue by $30 million. (CCC)



10:34 (Dow Jones) With Bear Stearns leading the Fed early-rate-cut
charge, Lehman Brothers is upping its bet the Fed will move early to
60%, from 40% on Monday. They're blaming it on the confidence data.
(MSD)



10:32 (Dow Jones) More caution on business-to-business and enterprise
software companies - this time from Goldman Sachs. The company's tech
group is cutting its software-company revenue estimates for 2001 by 1%
to 10%, citing deteriorating economic conditions. The analysts expect
the lower revenues to be primarily focused in the last three quarters of
the year. The Goldman call, combined with a similar one from Banc of
America Securities, is pressuring software stocks Tuesday. (RS)



10:28 (Dow Jones) Knight Trading Group (NITE) has been pre-allocated
the lead market-maker role for options of the QQQ, or Nasdaq 100 Trust,
at the Pacific Exchange, an exchange spokesman confirmed. (KXT)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx2r02nak




 AutoZone's 2nd-Quarter Net Income Fell 19% 

236 words
27 February 2001
22:02
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 MEMPHIS, Tenn. -- AutoZone Inc. reported a 19% decline in fiscal second-quarter net income, in line with the company's reduced forecast. 

 For the quarter ended Feb. 10, the auto-parts chain had net income of $31.7 million, or 28 cents a share, compared with $39.1 million, or 28 cents a share, a year earlier. The company warned last month that earnings would be about 28 cents a share. At the time, the mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial was for earnings of 32 cents a share. 

 Revenue rose 5.4% to $974 million, as same-store sales in the U.S. rose 2%. Retail sales gained 1%, while same-store commercial sales jumped 11%. 

 As it did when it warned sales would be lower than expected, AutoZone (AZO) said revenue was likely hurt by higher energy prices and the U.S. economic slowdown. 

 Assuming the company meets its same-store sales goal of 2% to 4%, AutoZone said it is "comfortable" with analysts' expectations for the third quarter and all of fiscal 2001. which ends in August. The First Call estimates are 55 cents and $2.26 a share, respectively. Before last month's profit warning, the First Call estimate was for fiscal 2001 earnings of $2.30 a share. 

 Copyright (c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020010711dx2r00741




 Texas Instruments cuts 1Q forecast again. 

126 words
27 February 2001
Channelnewsasia
CNEWAS
English
(c) 2001 MediaCorp News Pte Ltd. All Rights Reserved

 Texas Instruments, the number one maker of computer chips for cell phones, has cut its first-quarter revenue outlook for the second time in five weeks, blaming the US economic slowdown for the shortfall. 

 The company, the latest to be hit by the telecoms industry's less than bright outlook, expects slower sales across all product lines. 

 It expects first-quarter revenue to fall 20 percent from the US$3 billion posted last quarter, in addition to the 10 percent fall forecasted just last month. 

 The lower estimate follows a profit warning last Friday from Motorola, the No. 2 maker of mobile phone handsets. 

 Analysts are not surprised; most expect poorer business conditions on the back of an economic slowdown. 

Document cnewas0020010710dx2r0062j




 UPDATE 4-Procter & Gamble sees 2nd half hurt by Turkish lira. 

 By Deborah Cohen 
630 words
26 February 2001
20:58
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 CHICAGO, Feb 26 (Reuters) - Procter & Gamble Co., the largest U.S. consumer packaged goods maker, on Monday cut its earnings estimates for the second half of 2001, citing a financial crisis in Turkey, its 12th-largest market. 

 The surprise warning sparked a sell-off in shares of the maker of Tide detergent, Crest toothpaste and Pampers diapers. 

 P&G is the first major U.S. company to disclose that last week's float of the Turkish currency will hurt its profits. In contrast, P&G's joint venture partner, Coca-Cola Co., as well as consumer goods makers Unilever Plc and Colgate-Palmolive Co. said on Monday that they expect no major impact on earnings due to the Turkish financial crisis. 

 P&G said it expects profits of 69 cents to 72 cents a diluted share for the fiscal third quarter ending in March, possibly missing the consensus estimate of 72 cents compiled by First Call/Thomson Financial. The Cincinnati company earned 64 cents a share in the year-earlier quarter. 

 P&G expects to earnings per share for full-year 2001 ending in June to fall "4 to 5 cents" below analysts' expectations of $3.15, as reported by First Call. 

 The company's stock, which in the past year has ranged from $53 to $90, was down $3.89, or more than 5 percent, to $71.14, in late afternoon New York Stock Exchange trade. The shares, which were delayed at the open, earlier fell more than 6 percent. 

 P&G said its Turkish business is affected both by the devaluation of the Turkish lira and an expected decline in volumes and margins in the region, which accounts for about $400 million of its worldwide annual sales of $40 billion. 

 "In a global market, you're going to have some positive surprises and some negative surprises," said Bank of America Securities analyst William Steele, who rates P&G shares at market perform. "Turkey being devalued was a surprise to everybody." 

 Steele is now projecting that the company will earn $3.09 in fiscal 2001 and $3.40 in 2002, 6 cents below First Call's consensus estimate of $3.46 prior to the warning. 

 The profit warning comes just days after P&G and Coca-Cola announced a major venture to join their juice and snack products. 

 The Turkish lira has fallen about 27 percent against the U.S. dollar since it was floated last Thursday. The devaluation, which prompted a rush in Turkey to hold U.S. of imports for Turks. 

 P&G said unit volume and sales in Turkey will be down about 1 percent versus earlier guidance for the third quarter. 

 "Because Turkey is in a hyper-inflationary state, any changes on the balance sheet have to hit the income statement," said P&G spokesman Thomas Millikin. "We saw significant devaluation when trading began on the lira and believe there could be more." 

 The Central Bank on Monday intervened to force interest rates down by lending money to Turkish banks. Some analysts fear that warnings from other big consumer goods makers could follow P&G's. 

 In Turkey, P&G is the market-share leader in laundry detergent, dish soap, hair care, feminine care and diapers, with margins above the company average, Millikin said. 

 "I'm assuming Turkey is going to go from operating profit to operating loss in each of the next four quarters," Bank of America's Steele said, adding that he thought it would be a mistake for P&G to ramp up in another developing market to attempt to offset the Turkish downturn. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2q05b3c




 U.S. blue-chip stocks cling to gains, tech stocks backpedal. 

 By Elizabeth Lazarowitz 
532 words
26 February 2001
19:08
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Feb 26 (Reuters) - Blue-chip stocks clung to modest gains in early afternoon trading on Monday as investors bet the U.S. Federal Reserve would soon come to the slowing U.S. economy's aid with more interest-rate cuts. 

 "The positive tone from Friday afternoon and what we're seeing this morning is just pure speculation that we'll get more rate cuts before the March 20 meeting," said Donald Berdine, chief investment officer at PNC Advisors. 

 The Nasdaq market relinquished its gains, however, succumbing to the side effects of a corporate profit warning from Texas Instruments Inc., the No. 1 maker of computer chips for mobile phones. A warning from consumer products giant Procter & Gamble also doused cold water on the market's rally. 

 The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average advanced 61 points, or 0.59 percent, to 10,503, lifted in large part by gains in Home Depot, the No. 1 U.S. home improvement retailer. Home Depot gained $3.14 to $43.15. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index rose 4 points, or 0.39 percent, to 1,250. 

 The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index retreated, edging down 3 points, or 0.15 percent, to 2,259. 

 Texas Instruments, the top maker of computer chips for mobile phones, cut its revenue outlook for the first quarter - a month after it had already lowered guidance - saying the economic slowdown was constraining demand. 

 TI fell just 65 cents to $29.50 on the New York Stock Exchange. But the news had a domino effect on chip and chip equipment stocks. The Philadelphia semiconductor index fell 3.71 percent. 

 Semiconductor equipment maker Applied Materials Inc. fell $2-1/16 to $45-7/8. 

 "If anybody is shocked that a semiconductor company has warned, they must just have come back from Mars," said Bill Meehan, chief market analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald. "Another one (warning) from a semiconductor manufacturer comes with the territory." 

 Procter & Gamble, the maker of Tide detergent and Crest Toothpaste, blamed the Turkish financial crisis and devaluation of the Turkish lira for second-half earnings that it expects to be lower than previously forecast. 

 PG's shares fell a whopping $4.63 to $70.40, dampening the Dow's rally. 

 Among the top tech shares, Internet gear giant Cisco Systems Inc. was down $1-1/2 at $25-1/2. No. 1 chip maker Intel Corp. fell $1 to $28-15/16. 

 Retailing heavyweight and Dow component Home Depot, however, jumped $3.25 to $43.26, a gain of about 8 percent, after its rival and the No. 2 home improvement retailer, Loew's Cos. Inc. posted lower quarterly earnings because of discounts. But Loew's predicted a strong rise in profits this year. Loew's shares rose $4.18 to $58.76. 

 The Dow average also got a boost from software maker Microsoft Corp., which rose $2-3/4 to $59-1/2 as a court began hearing the company's appeal of the federal antitrust ruling against it, stipulating that the company be broken into two parts. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2q05aai




 Procter & Gamble sees second half hurt by Turkey. 

 By Deborah Cohen 
629 words
26 February 2001
17:50
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 CHICAGO, Feb 26 (Reuters) - Procter & Gamble Co. , the largest U.S. consumer packaged goods maker, on Monday cut its earnings estimates for the second half of 2001, citing a financial crisis in Turkey, its 12th-largest market. 

 The surprise warning sparked a sell-off in the stock of the maker of Tide detergent, Crest toothpaste and Pampers diapers. 

 P&G is the first major U.S. company to disclose that last week's float of the Turkish currency will hurt its profits. In contrast, P&G's joint venture partner, Coca-Cola Co. , as well as consumer goods makers Unilever Plc and Colgate-Palmolive Co. , said Monday that they expect no major impact on earnings due to the Turkish financial crisis. 

 P&G said it expects profits of 69 to 72 cents a share, diluted, in the fiscal third quarter ending in March, possibly missing the consensus estimate of 72 cents a share reported by First Call/Thomson Financial. The company earned 64 cents a share in the year-ago quarter. 

 P&G expects to earnings per share for full-year 2001 ending in June to fall "4 to 5 cents" below analysts' expectations of $3.15, as reported by First Call. 

 Stock in Cincinnati-based P&G, which has a 52-week trading range of $53 to $90, fell $4.78, or more than 6 percent, to $70.26, shortly after midday on the New York Stock Exchange. The shares were delayed at the open. 

 P&G said its Turkish business is affected both by the devaluation of the Turkish lira and an expected decline in volumes and margins in the region, which accounts for about $400 million of the company's worldwide annual sales of $40 billion. 

 "In a global market you're going to have some positive surprises and some negative surprises," said Bank of America Securities analyst William Steele, who rates P&G shares "market perform." "Turkey being devalued was a surprise to everybody." 

 Steele is now projecting that the company will earn $3.09 in its 2001 fiscal year and $3.40 in 2002, 6 cents below First Call's consensus of $3.46 prior to the warning. 

 The profit warning comes just days after P&G and Coca-Cola announced a major venture to join their juice and snack products. 

 The Turkish lira has fallen about 28 percent against the U.S. dollar since it was floated last Thursday. P&G said that unit volume and sales in Turkey will be down about 1 percent in the third quarter, compared with the same period last year. 

 "Because Turkey is in a hyper-inflationary state, any changes on the balance sheet have to hit the income statement," said P&G spokesman Thomas Millikin. "We saw significant devaluation when trading began on the lira and believe there could be more." 

 The Central Bank on Monday intervened to force interest rates down by lending money to Turkish banks. Some analysts fear that P&G's warning could be followed by other big consumer goods makers. 

 In Turkey, P&G company is the market-share leader in laundry detergent, dish soap, hair care, feminine care and diapers, with margins above the company average, Millikin said. 

 "I'm assuming Turkey is going to go from operating profit to operating loss in each of the next four quarters," Bank of America's Steele said, adding that he thought it would be a mistake for P&G to ramp up in another developing market to attempt to offset the Turkish downturn. ((-Chicago Equities News at 312-408-8787, chicago.equities. newsroom@reuters.com)). 

Document lba0000020010713dx2q059wk




 UPDATE 3-Texas Instruments trims Q1 outlook again. 

 By Ian Simpson 
487 words
26 February 2001
17:49
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Feb 26 (Reuters) - Texas Instruments Inc., the No. 1 maker of computer chips for mobile phones, on Monday cut its first-quarter revenue outlook for the second time in five weeks and blamed the U.S. economic slowdown for the shortfall. 

 Executives said they were seeing slower sales across all product lines. The downbeat outlook is the latest in a series of gloomy forecasts that have hammered the once high-flying technology sector. 

 Dallas-based Texas Instruments, whose digital signal processors form the guts of mobile phones, said it expects first-quarter revenue to fall about 20 percent from the $3.03 billion posted in the fourth quarter. It forecast a 10 percent fall on Jan. 22, when it reported fourth-quarter results. 

 The lower outlook follows a profit warning on Friday from Motorola Inc., the No. 2 maker of mobile phone handsets. The company trimmed its outlook for 2001 industrywide handset sales to below 500 million from a previous forecast of 525 million to 575 million. 

 Investment banks Merrill Lynch, Deutsche Bank and Lehman Brothers slashed their outlooks for 2001 world handset sales on Monday. 

 The sales slowdown "is broad based," Texas Instruments Chief Operating Officer Richard Templeton said in a conference call with analysts. "We're seeing it across the board." 

 Texas Instruments had first seen a sharp downturn in the fourth quarter as customers facing rising inventories canceled or rescheduled orders, he said, and conditions have not improved. 

 The company's shares reversed a morning dip and were up 15 cents at $30.30 in New York Stock Exchange trade. The stock was among NYSE volume leaders as markets overall firmed. 

 Texas Instruments is down 70 percent from its 12-month high of $99.75 and not far from the year low of $28.55. 

 Analyst Eric Ross of Thomas Weisel Partners LLC in San Francisco said Texas Instruments' forecast was not a surprise. 

 "The general economy is slowing... no matter how optimistic you are, and you're going to see that effect," he said. 

 He added that Texas Instruments was seeing the slowdown spread from handsets to such areas as chips for personal computers. Semiconductors for personal computers make up 40 percent of the company's chip sales. 

 Texas Instruments also said it expects its pro forma operating margin to drop about 6 to 8 percentage points, compared with its previous projected decline of 5 to 6 percentage points. 

 The company said it will launch a voluntary retirement program as part of a cost-cutting plan. It also trimmed its capital spending plans for 2001 again, to $2 billion from $2.8 billion last year. 

 Merrill Lynch analyst Joe Osha cut his intermediate-term rating to accumulate from buy. 

 "We are not looking for an earnings recovery until" the second half of the year, he said in a research report. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2q059wd




 UPDATE 3-Procter & Gamble sees second half hurt by Turkish lira. 

 By Deborah Cohen 
619 words
26 February 2001
17:46
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 CHICAGO, Feb 26 (Reuters) - Procter & Gamble Co., the largest U.S. consumer packaged goods maker, on Monday cut its earnings estimates for the second half of 2001, citing a financial crisis in Turkey, its 12th-largest market. 

 The surprise warning sparked a sell-off in the stock of the maker of Tide detergent, Crest toothpaste and Pampers diapers. 

 P&G is the first major U.S. company to disclose that last week's float of the Turkish currency will hurt its profits. In contrast, P&G's joint venture partner, Coca-Cola Co., as well as consumer goods makers Unilever Plc and Colgate-Palmolive Co., said Monday that they expect no major impact on earnings due to the Turkish financial crisis. 

 P&G said it expects profits of 69 to 72 cents a share, diluted, in the fiscal third quarter ending in March, possibly missing the consensus estimate of 72 cents a share reported by First Call/Thomson Financial. The company earned 64 cents a share in the year-ago quarter. 

 P&G expects to earnings per share for full-year 2001 ending in June to fall "4 to 5 cents" below analysts' expectations of $3.15, as reported by First Call. 

 Stock in Cincinnati-based P&G, which has a 52-week trading range of $53 to $90, fell $4.78, or more than 6 percent, to $70.26, shortly after midday on the New York Stock Exchange. The shares were delayed at the open. 

 P&G said its Turkish business is affected both by the devaluation of the Turkish lira and an expected decline in volumes and margins in the region, which accounts for about $400 million of the company's worldwide annual sales of $40 billion. 

 "In a global market you're going to have some positive surprises and some negative surprises," said Bank of America Securities analyst William Steele, who rates P&G shares "market perform." "Turkey being devalued was a surprise to everybody." 

 Steele is now projecting that the company will earn $3.09 in its 2001 fiscal year and $3.40 in 2002, 6 cents below First Call's consensus of $3.46 prior to the warning. 

 The profit warning comes just days after P&G and Coca-Cola announced a major venture to join their juice and snack products. 

 The Turkish lira has fallen about 28 percent against the U.S. dollar since it was floated last Thursday. P&G said that unit volume and sales in Turkey will be down about 1 percent in the third quarter, compared with the same period last year. 

 "Because Turkey is in a hyper-inflationary state, any changes on the balance sheet have to hit the income statement," said P&G spokesman Thomas Millikin. "We saw significant devaluation when trading began on the lira and believe there could be more." 

 The Central Bank on Monday intervened to force interest rates down by lending money to Turkish banks. Some analysts fear that P&G's warning could be followed by other big consumer goods makers. 

 In Turkey, P&G company is the market-share leader in laundry detergent, dish soap, hair care, feminine care and diapers, with margins above the company average, Millikin said. 

 "I'm assuming Turkey is going to go from operating profit to operating loss in each of the next four quarters," Bank of America's Steele said, adding that he thought it would be a mistake for P&G to ramp up in another developing market to attempt to offset the Turkish downturn. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2q059uo




 U.S. stocks buoyed by interest rate  cut  hopes. 

 By Haitham Haddadin 
771 words
26 February 2001
17:44
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Feb 26 (Reuters) - Stocks moved higher in midday trading on Monday as investors bet the U.S. Federal Reserve would soon lower interest rates again to get the economy back on its feet. 

 Corporate profit warnings from Texas Instruments Inc., the No. 1 maker of computer chips for mobile phones, and consumer products giant Procter & Gamble put a cap on the market's gain. 

 "There is a growing belief that (Fed chairman Alan) Greenspan is going to unleash a rate cut before the March 20th meeting," said Bill Meehan, chief market analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald. "If that is the case, then any talk of a recession may be premature, or it may be one that might be relatively mild." 

 The blue chip Dow Jones industrial average was up 66.92 points, or 0.64 percent, at 10,508.82. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index rose 6.73 points, or 0.54 percent, to 1,252.59. 

 The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index was up 14.93 points, or 0.66 percent, at 2,277.44. 

 Texas Instruments, the No. 1 maker of computer chips for mobile phones, cut its revenue outlook for the first quarter - a month after it had already lowered guidance - saying the economic slowdown was constraining demand. TI fell less than $1 initially and was last up 24 cents at $30.40 on the New York Stock Exchange. The Philadelphia semiconductor index was down 2.51 percent. 

 "If anybody is shocked that a semiconductor company has warned they must just have come back from Mars," Meehan said. "Another one (warning) from a semiconductor manufacturer comes with the territory." 

 Procter & Gamble Co., the maker of Tide detergent and Crest Toothpaste, said second-half earnings would be lower than previously forecast due to the Turkish financial crisis and devaluation of the Turkish lira. 

 PG's shares fell a whopping $4.56 to $70.47, dampening the Dow's rally. 

 Among the top tech shares, Internet gear giant Cisco Systems Inc. was down 15/16 at $26-1/16. No. 1 chip maker Intel Corp fell $1-1/16 to $28-7/8. 

 Software maker Microsoft Corp. rose $2-1/2 to $59-1/4 as a court began hearing of the company's appeal of the antitrust ruling against it. 

 The S&P computer software index .SPCMSF) rose 2.92 percent, reflecting gains by other sectoral names including Veritas Software, up $3-5/16 at $65-11/16 and Siebel Systems, up $1-5/16 at $49-3/8. 

 The latest guidance from Texas Instruments follows a profit warning on Friday from Motorola Inc., the world's No. 2 maker of mobile phone handsets, and network computing giant Sun Microsystems, which had helped send the battered Nasdaq lower early on Friday, before the market staged a dramatic rebound as investors grew optimistic that further Fed rate cuts may be around the corner and could come as early as this week. 

 A comment on Friday by Bear Stearns' chief economist and former Fed governor Wayne Angell that there was a 60 percent chance that the U.S. central bank would cut interest rates by a half a percentage point early next week helped spur the Nasdaq's comeback, traders said. 

 The Fed cut rates by a full percentage point in January in an effort to keep the economy from tumbling into recession. Its next rate-setting meeting is scheduled for March 20, but investors have been hoping a rate cut would come sooner. 

 Fed Chairman Greenspan will testify to the U.S. House of Representatives testimony on Wednesday. 

 "I don't know if he will go in there with a surprise cut already behind us, so that puts it off until Thursday or Friday," said Art Hogan, chief market analyst at Jefferies & Co. "Why not wait until he sees the employment numbers at 8:30 on Thursday." 

 More evidence of economic slowdown came from data on existing home sales for January, which contrary to forecasts, dropped by 6.6 percent, to 4.65 million units, the lowest since January 2000. Wall Street had expected home sales of 4.98 million, up from December's 4.87 million. 

 Qwest Communications International Inc. rose $2.10 at $38 after the No. 4 long distance telephone company said it is on track to meet its target of 2001 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $8.5 billion to $8.7 billion and revenue targets of $21.3 to $21.7 billion. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2q059uf




 UPDATE 4-Procter & Gamble sees 2nd half hurt by Turkish lira. 

 By Deborah Cohen 
635 words
26 February 2001
20:58
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 CHICAGO, Feb 26 (Reuters) - Procter & Gamble Co. , the largest U.S. consumer packaged goods maker, on Monday cut its earnings estimates for the second half of 2001, citing a financial crisis in Turkey, its 12th-largest market. 

 The surprise warning sparked a sell-off in shares of the maker of Tide detergent, Crest toothpaste and Pampers diapers. 

 P&G is the first major U.S. company to disclose that last week's float of the Turkish currency will hurt its profits. In contrast, P&G's joint venture partner, Coca-Cola Co. , as well as consumer goods makers Unilever Plc and Colgate-Palmolive Co. said on Monday that they expect no major impact on earnings due to the Turkish financial crisis. 

 P&G said it expects profits of 69 cents to 72 cents a diluted share for the fiscal third quarter ending in March, possibly missing the consensus estimate of 72 cents compiled by First Call/Thomson Financial. The Cincinnati company earned 64 cents a share in the year-earlier quarter. 

 P&G expects to earnings per share for full-year 2001 ending in June to fall "4 to 5 cents" below analysts' expectations of $3.15, as reported by First Call. 

 The company's stock, which in the past year has ranged from $53 to $90, was down $3.89, or more than 5 percent, to $71.14, in late afternoon New York Stock Exchange trade. The shares, which were delayed at the open, earlier fell more than 6 percent. 

 P&G said its Turkish business is affected both by the devaluation of the Turkish lira and an expected decline in volumes and margins in the region, which accounts for about $400 million of its worldwide annual sales of $40 billion. 

 "In a global market, you're going to have some positive surprises and some negative surprises," said Bank of America Securities analyst William Steele, who rates P&G shares at market perform. "Turkey being devalued was a surprise to everybody." 

 Steele is now projecting that the company will earn $3.09 in fiscal 2001 and $3.40 in 2002, 6 cents below First Call's consensus estimate of $3.46 prior to the warning. 

 The profit warning comes just days after P&G and Coca-Cola announced a major venture to join their juice and snack products. 

 The Turkish lira has fallen about 27 percent against the U.S. dollar since it was floated last Thursday. The devaluation, which prompted a rush in Turkey to hold U.S. dollars, also raised the cost of imports for Turks. 

 P&G said unit volume and sales in Turkey will be down about 1 percent versus earlier guidance for the third quarter. 

 "Because Turkey is in a hyper-inflationary state, any changes on the balance sheet have to hit the income statement," said P&G spokesman Thomas Millikin. "We saw significant devaluation when trading began on the lira and believe there could be more." 

 The Central Bank on Monday intervened to force interest rates down by lending money to Turkish banks. Some analysts fear that warnings from other big consumer goods makers could follow P&G's. 

 In Turkey, P&G is the market-share leader in laundry detergent, dish soap, hair care, feminine care and diapers, with margins above the company average, Millikin said. 

 "I'm assuming Turkey is going to go from operating profit to operating loss in each of the next four quarters," Bank of America's Steele said, adding that he thought it would be a mistake for P&G to ramp up in another developing market to attempt to offset the Turkish downturn. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2q059rx




 UPDATE 2-Texas Instruments trims Q1 outlook again. 

 By Ian Simpson 
498 words
26 February 2001
16:11
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 (adds comments from conference call, analyst downgrade, byline, Broadcom, Analog Devices shares, stock price) 

 NEW YORK, Feb 26 (Reuters) - Texas Instruments Inc., the No. 1 maker of computer chips for mobile phones, on Monday cut its first-quarter revenue outlook for the second time in just over a month and blamed the U.S. economic slowdown for the shortfall. 

 Company executives said they were seeing slower sales across all product lines. The downbeat outlook is the latest in a series of gloomy forecasts that have hammered the once high-flying technology sector. 

 The Dallas-based company said it expected first-quarter revenue to fall about 20 percent from the $3.03 billion posted in the 2000 fourth quarter. 

 On Jan. 22, when it reported fourth-quarter results, Texas Instruments said sales in the first quarter should drop 10 percent from the fourth quarter. 

 The sales slowdown "is broad based. We're seeing it across the board," Chief Operating Officer Richard Templeton said Monday in a conference call with analysts. 

 He said Texas Instruments had first seen a sharp downturn in the fourth quarter as customers facing rising inventories canceled or rescheduled orders. Conditions have not improved since then, Templeton said. 

 The lower outlook follows a profit warning on Friday from Motorola Inc., the world's No. 2 maker of mobile phone handsets. 

 Shares in Texas Instruments, which makes the digital signal processors that form the guts of mobile phones, fell 48 cents to $29.67 on the New York Stock Exchange. Texas Instruments was among NYSE volume leaders as markets overall were close to unchanged. 

 The stock is down 70 percent from its 12-month high and is off a low of $28.55. 

 Among other communications chip makers, Broadcom Corp. fell $6 to $63-7/16. Analog Devices Inc. fell $1.31 to $42.84 

 Texas Instruments also said it expected its pro forma operating margin to drop about 6 to 8 percentage points. The company had previously estimated a drop of 5 to 6 percentage points. 

 Texas Instruments did not provide an outlook for profits. 

 The company started a cost-cutting plan this quarter that includes shorter work weeks and idling plants. Texas Instruments said it would also launch a voluntary retirement program. 

 Texas Instruments said it had trimmed its capital spending plans for 2001 to $2 billion, from 2000's $2.8 billion. The company had forecast capital spending at $2.3 billion last month. 

 Investment in research and development will rise to $1.7 billion this year from $1.6 billion in 2000, the same as the company's previous estimate. 

 Merrill Lynch analyst Joe Osha cut his intermediate-term rating on Texas Instruments to accumulate from buy. Osha said he was worried in part about an inventory buildup at Texas Instruments. 

 "We are not looking for an earnings recovery until" the second half of the year, he said in a research report. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2q059kz




 U.S. stocks seen up at open. 

 By Haitham Haddadin 
934 words
26 February 2001
13:14
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Feb 26 (Reuters) - Stocks are seen opening higher on Monday, building on optimism seen at the end of last week on speculation of an interest-rate cut soon from the U.S. Federal Reserve. 

 Investors, at least according to early indications, seemed to be ignoring the latest corporate bombshell, which this time came from Texas Instruments Inc.. The No. 1 maker of computer chips for mobile phones early on Monday cut its revenue outlook for the first quarter - a month after it had already lowered guidance - saying the U.S. economic slowdown was constraining demand. 

 About an hour and a half from the open, March Nasdaq 100 futures were trading 32.50 points up at 2,090, while S&P 500 front month futures wre up 7 points at 1,254.50, suggesting a firm open for the recently battered technology sector and a positive start as well as for the broader market. 

 March Dow Jones industrial average futures were up 20 points at 10,485, pointing to a higher open for blue-chip stocks. 

 "The futures were higher and stayed higher (after the Texas Instruments news) so at least in the early going we are going to have a bit of a rebound," said Art Hogan, chief market analyst at Jefferies & Co. 

 "We have been selling without relent for days on end, so at some point in time the market will come up for air. I think today is that day...The opening should be strong." 

 The new, lower guidance from Texas Instruments follows a profit warning on Friday from Motorola Inc., the world's No. 2 maker of mobile phone handsets, which said it was operating in a "recession of confidence." 

 The Motorola warning, and another one from network computing giant Sun Microsystems, had helped send the battered Nasdaq market lower in early trade Friday, before that market staged a dramatic late-day rebound as investors grew optimistic that further Fed rate cuts are around the corner and could come as early as this week. 

 On Friday, the Nasdaq composite index rebounded from a two-year low to finish up 17.53 points, or 0.78 percent, at 2,262.49. 

 A comment by Bear Stearns' chief economist and former Fed governor Wayne Angell that there was a 60 percent chance that the U.S. central bank would cut interest rates by a half a percentage point early next week helped spur the Nasdaq's comeback, traders said. 

 The Fed cut interest rates by a full percentage point in January in an effort to keep the economy from tumbling into recession. Its next rate-setting meeting is scheduled for March 20, but investors have been hoping a rate cut would come sooner. 

 "The credible guess would be sometime after the payroll numbers (on Thursday)," said Jefferies' Hogan. 

 "Greenspan speaks to Congress on Wednesday, I don't know if he will go in there with a surprise cut already behind us, so that puts it off until Thursday or Friday. Why not wait until he sees the employment numbers at 8:30 on Thursday," Hogan added. 

 Big jumps in key inflation data recently have raised the possibility that the Fed may be less aggressive in making additional cuts. So Wall Street turns its attention to a full economic data calendar this week. 

 The slate carries January personal income and consumption numbers on Thursday, due to show an expected increase of 0.4 percent and 0.7 percent, respectively, in addition to the February National Association of Purchasing Management's manufacturing survey, which is predicted to firm a bit to 41.5 from 41.2 in January. For the NAPM, a number below 50 indicates contraction in manufacturing activity. 

 Starting off the flow of data will be existing home sales figures for January, due at 10 a.m. EST (1500 GMT) on Monday. The figure is expected to come in at 4.98 million, up from December's 4.87 million. 

 Tuesday brings new-home sales, with last month's number forecast to be 930,000, up from 975,000 in December, but investors will be keenly watching that day for the February reading of consumer confidence, forecast to fall to 109.6 from January's 114.4. 

 In corporate news, Lowe's Cos Inc., said early on Monday its fourth-quarter profit fell about 5 percent, as expected, as heavy holiday promotions and flagging lumber prices negatively impacted results. But the world's No. 2 home improvement retailer raised earnings projections for 2001 and said it plans to open between 115 and 120 new stores during the year. 

 Lowe's shares closed at $54.58 on Friday. 

 DaimlerChrysler said on Monday 2000 operating profit at its U.S. unit Chrysler dropped by 90 percent to 500 million euros ($454.5 million) and forecast an operating loss at the unit this year. The world's No. 3 carmaker said the restructuring of Chrysler would cost up to 4 billion euros ($3.64 billion), with as much as three billion to be booked in the first quarter of this year. DaimlerChrysler closed at $48.80 in New York on Friday but its local share fell about 1 percent at 52 euros in European trade. 

 ASI Solutions Inc., a human resources outsourcing company, said after Friday's market close that its board approved a merger agreement to become part of Aon Corp.'s consulting organization in a stock swap. ASI shares closed at $12-1/4 and Aon's at $33.14. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2q059id




 U.S. blue chips extend gains amid rate- cut  hopes. 

 By Elizabeth Lazarowitz 
171 words
26 February 2001
19:37
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Feb 26 (Reuters) - Blue-chip stocks climbed some more in mid-afternoon trading on Monday as investors bet the U.S. Federal Reserve would lower interest rates in the near-term to bolster the economy. 

 Technology stocks also strode back into positive territory, despite weakness in the computer chip and chip equipment sector, spurred by a profit warning from Texas Instruments Inc., the No. 1 maker of computer chips for mobile phones. 

 The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average gained 125 points, or 1.20 percent, to 10,567, lifted in large part by gains in Home Depot, the No. 1 U.S. home improvement retailer. Home Depot gained $3.20 to $43.21 after a rival gave a rosy profit outlook. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index rose 11 points, or 0.95 percent, to 1,257. 

 The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index rose 22 points, or 1.01 percent, to 2,285. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2q0596d




 Texas Instruments lowers Q1 outlook again. 

332 words
26 February 2001
14:29
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Feb 26 (Reuters) - Texas Instruments Inc. , the No. 1 maker of computer chips for mobile phones, cut its first-quarter revenue outlook a second time on Monday, saying the U.S. economic slowdown was constraining demand. 

 The company said in a statement that it expected first-quarter revenue to fall about 20 percent from the $3.03 billion posted in the 2000 fourth quarter. 

 On Jan 22, when it reported its fourth-quarter results, Texas Instruments said sales in the first quarter should drop 10 percent from the fourth quarter. 

 "Market conditions have not improved during the quarter and customers have continued to cancel or reschedule backlog, causing visibility to remain limited," the statement said. 

 The new, lower guidance follows a profit warning on Friday from Motorola Inc. , the world's No. 2 maker of mobile phone handsets. The company said it was operating in a "recession of confidence." 

 Texas Instruments also said it expected its pro forma operating margin to drop about 6 to 8 percentage points. The company had previously estimated a drop of 5 to 6 percentage points. 

 The company started a cost-cutting plan this quarter that includes shorter work weeks and idling plants. Texas Instruments said in its statement that it would also launch a voluntary retirement program. 

 Texas Instruments also said it had trimmed its capital spending plans for 2001 to $2 billion, from 2000's $2.8 billion. The company had forecast capital spending at $2.3 billion last month. 

 Investment in research and development will rise to $1.7 billion this year from $1.6 billion in 2000, the same as the company's previous estimate. 

 The company's shares fell to $29.25 in pre-opening trading on the Instinet electronic broker system. They closed on Friday at $30.15. 

 The stock is down from a 12-month high of $99.75 on the New York Stock Exchange and above a low of $28.55. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2q05925




 UPDATE 1-Texas Instruments lowers Q1 outlook again. 

345 words
26 February 2001
14:20
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 (adds background, stock price, margin and capex outlook, quote, previous DALLAS) 

 NEW YORK, Feb 26 (Reuters) - Texas Instruments Inc. , the No. 1 maker of computer chips for mobile phones, cut its first-quarter revenue outlook a second time on Monday, saying the U.S. economic slowdown was constraining demand. 

 The company said in a statement that it expected first-quarter revenue to fall about 20 percent from the $3.03 billion posted in the 2000 fourth quarter. 

 On Jan 22, when it reported its fourth-quarter results, Texas Instruments said sales in the first quarter should drop 10 percent from the fourth quarter. 

 "Market conditions have not improved during the quarter and customers have continued to cancel or reschedule backlog, causing visibility to remain limited," the statement said. 

 The new, lower guidance follows a profit warning on Friday from Motorola Inc. , the world's No. 2 maker of mobile phone handsets. The company said it was operating in a "recession of confidence." 

 Texas Instruments also said it expected its pro forma operating margin to drop about 6 to 8 percentage points. The company had previously estimated a drop of 5 to 6 percentage points. 

 The company started a cost-cutting plan this quarter that includes shorter work weeks and idling plants. Texas Instruments said in its statement that it would also launch a voluntary retirement program. 

 Texas Instruments also said it had trimmed its capital spending plans for 2001 to $2 billion, from 2000's $2.8 billion. The company had forecast capital spending at $2.3 billion last month. 

 Investment in research and development will rise to $1.7 billion this year from $1.6 billion in 2000, the same as the company's previous estimate. 

 The company's shares fell to $29.25 in pre-opening trading on the Instinet electronic broker system. They closed on Friday at $30.15. 

 The stock is down from a 12-month high of $99.75 on the New York Stock Exchange and above a low of $28.55. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2q058vs




 Texas Instruments lowers first quarter outlook again. 

134 words
26 February 2001
12:36
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 DALLAS, Feb 26 (Reuters) - Texas Instruments Inc. , the No. 1 maker of computer chips for mobile phones, on Monday cut its revenue outlook for the first quarter - a month after it had already lowered guidance - saying the U.S. economic slowdown was constraining demand. 

 The company said it now expects first-quarter revenue to fall about 20 percent from the $3.03 billion recorded in the 2000 fourth quarter. On Jan. 22, when it reported its fourth-quarter results, Texas Instruments said sales in the first quarter should drop 10 percent from the fourth quarter. 

 The new, lower guidance follows a profit warning Friday from Motorola Inc. , the world's No. 2 maker of mobile phone handsets, which said it was operating in a "recession of confidence." 

Document lba0000020010713dx2q058uv




 Orica stays on slide after profit downgrade. 

339 words
26 February 2001
02:12
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 MELBOURNE, Feb 26 (Reuters) - Shares in Orica Ltd lost another four percent on Monday after analysts cut their profit outlooks following the latest earnings warning from the explosives and chemicals group. 

 Orica's stock fell 21 cents in morning trade to A$5.09, its lowest level since early November 1992, as analysts cut their profit outlooks for 2000/01 by as much as 18 percent. 

 The company warned last Friday its annual profit after abnormals would be between A$100 million and A$150 million, compared with A$114 million last year, due to high gas prices hurting its U.S. explosives arm, a strike at its Qenos joint venture with Exxon Mobil Corp , and a plunge in new building in Australia hurting its paints business. 

 "They're painting a pessimistic picture but aiming for a better result, certainly at the top of the range," said Salomon Smith Barney analyst Paul Jensz, who cut his profit forecast for the group by 10 percent to A$145 million after abnormals. 

 Last year Orica's net profit fell six percent in line with the company's warnings but Orica said then that it expected its profit to grow in 2000/01. 

 Analysts said they could not fault the company's management, but said Orica was just caught in the wrong businesses at the wrong time which had good prospects longer term. 

 "One day there's going to be a turn in raw material costs and the domestic economy will improve ... In the medium term things will get better," said an investment analyst with a fund manager, who declined to be named. 

 Analysts' valuations on the company on a cash flow basis are well above A$7.00 compared to its share price of A$5.12, down 18 cents or 3.4 percent at 1:10 p.m. (0210 GMT). 

 "The lack of earnings certainty means it will trade at a sizable discount on a cashflow basis," said Macquarie Equities analyst David Greer. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2q057xy




 UPDATE 1-ERG slumps as Motorola link  cut . 

 By Marion Rae 
423 words
26 February 2001
07:16
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 SYDNEY, Feb 26 (Reuters) - Investors dumped smartcard technology group ERG Ltd on Monday after it announced an end to its alliance with wireless giant Motorola Inc, under which it will buy out Motorola for US$24.15 million (A$46 million). 

 Motorola would also sell down its ERG shareholding of about 82.6 million shares, representing all of Motorola's direct holding in ERG, ERG said in a statement released along with its half year results. 

 Motorola issued a profit warning in New York on Friday, saying a dramatic sales slowdown could lead to its first quarterly operating loss in 15 years. 

 Feeling the chill of the U.S. slowdown, ERG shares slumped 60 cents or 24.3 percent to close at A$1.87 on heavy turnover of 17 million shares, in a broader market that gained 0.3 percent. 

 The share slump reduced ERG's market value to A$1.16 billion. 

 "It's a short-term negative when a company with the global strength of Motorola exits your register," said analyst Simon Tritton at Wilson HTM. 

 ERG specialises in smartcard applications for transit systems. 

 ERG earlier reported a net profit of A$16.13 million for the six months to December 31, up on A$15.04 million year earlier. 

 Analysts said the Motorola announcement came at a time when the market was getting impatient for comment on the future of contracts which had been on hold for some time. 

 Credit rating agency Standard & Poor's put its single-A senior long-term and A-1 short-term ratings for Motorola's debt on review on Friday for a possible downgrade. Moody's Investors Service have also warned of a possible downgrade. 

 "We are pleased with what the alliance has achieved, both in terms of its position in the smart card transit solutions market and in our shareholding in ERG," said Jim Osborn, Motorola corporate vice president and general manager of the group's Worldwide Smartcard Solutions Division. 

 "We are confident ERG is strongly positioned to support our alliance customers," he said. 

 ERG said it was confident the buy-out of Motorola's interests in their alliance was beneficial to ERG shareholders. 

 "As we move ahead, we look forward to expanding ERG's position globally, both in and outside the transit fare collection sector," chief executive Peter Fogarty said. 

 "ERG has developed a strong financial position and capability to support its global smart card aspirations on its own." 

Document lba0000020010713dx2q057r1




 Texas Inst Outlook More Than Simple Inventory Correction 

 By Donna Fuscaldo 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
678 words
26 February 2001
18:01
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Semiconductor followers know all too well about the inventory correction that has plagued the chip industry. 

 But Texas Instruments Inc.'s (TXN) first quarter profit warning, issued Monday morning, has led some to the conclusion that the sector's heartaches aren't limited to excess inventory but are also attributable to the economy, which is clearly slowing. 

 Texas Instruments' weakness is not confined to the personal computer sector or the communication sector, but is hitting across all geographies and all end markets, said Drew Peck, an analyst at SG Cowen. 

 "What we are looking at now is something more than an inventory correction," he said. "It's becoming obvious we're looking at the economic impact starting to affect the semi industry." 

 Earlier Monday, Texas Instruments, Dallas, warned that first quarter revenue would fall 20% below the $3.03 billion the company reported in the fourth quarter of 2000. When the company posted fourth quarter earnings last month it predicted revenue would fall 10% in the first quarter. 

 In a conference call to discuss the lowered forecasts, Texas Instruments Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Rich Templeton said the company felt general weakness across the board. 

 Jamie Anderson, a spokesman for Texas Instruments, said in a subsequent interview that the economic slowdown continues to constrain demand for tech products. 

 "TI has a high exposure to the economy in general and clearly we are seeing a slowdown." said Eric Ross, an analyst at Thomas Weisel Partners. "This is just TI reflecting that." 

 According to the analyst, the weakness is particularly acute in the company's analog and catalog digital signal processor businesses. 

 During the Monday morning call, Templeton said high-end analog products started to "tail off" in the first quarter. 

 Shekhar Wadekar, an analyst at Dain Rauscher Wessels, agreed the economy is partially responsible for demand going away, but said excess capacity and inventory are the main drivers of Texas Instruments' weakness. 

 "(You) have all three negatives coming together and countering what happened in the early 90's when (we) had shortage of capacity, great demand and low inventory," he said. "(We had) a great cycle from 1993, 1994 and 1995 and the reverse is happening in 2001." 

 Whether Texas Instruments' warning is inventory-driven or a result of a slowing economy is still up for debate. But what must be weighing on investors' minds is if a sea of earnings preannouncements will follow and if a second-half recovery is in the cards. 

 "Only a handful of companies will not make preannouncements," said SG Cowen's Peck. "Those companies that are focused on high growth segments are somewhat buffered." 

 Although Peck would not name names, he said companies that sell into specific high growth markets will fare better than broad-based semiconductor makers. 

 For example, a firm that sells components for flat panel displays or for the wireless networking market should be all right, he said. 

 Dain Rauscher's Wadekar said more earnings revisions will come as companies "tweak, revise, or trim" numbers. 

 As for a second-half recovery that many hope for, Wadekar is still a believer. "I do think (it) will likely recover this year but it will be more toward the fourth quarter," he said. "The key question is recovery from what level." 

 Thomas Weisel's Ross, however, is firmly in the opposite camp. "I don't think things will improve. We do see sequential growth in some of the end markets, PCs and cell phone handsets," he said. But that may not drive all the way through the economy, Ross added. 

 As for Texas Instruments' stock, which was down recently just 24 cents, or 0.8%, to $29.91, analysts say investors were already anticipating a lower forecast and are instead focusing on the possibility that the Fed will cut interest rates ahead of its scheduled meeting in March. 

 -By Donna Fuscaldo, Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5253; donna.fuscaldo@dowjones.com 

Document dj00000020010711dx2q02l4s


 Nortel's Roth Comes Under Fire.(Company Business and Marketing) 

 WILLIAM MARSDEN 
990 words
26 February 2001
Electronic News
ELNW
2
ISSN 1061-6624; Volume 47; Issue 9
English
Copyright 2001 Gale Group Inc. All rights reserved.

 Stock drop and slashed forecast rile investors 

 MONTREAL -- John Roth, Nortel Networks Corp. chief executive officer and the king of the fiber optics speedway, looked like little more than roadkill last week after the Brampton, Ontario-based company abruptly reversed its bullish 2001 forecast. The move sent its stock price crashing down Wall Street and vaporized $30 billion in shareholder value. 

 Roth's announcement that he was cutting 10,000 jobs and slashing profit forecasts by half resulted in a 33 percent drop in share price. It also resulted in three class-action lawsuits and a huge dent in Roth's credibility as millions of angry Canadian and U.S. investors now wonder if Roth wasn't altogether straight with them in December when he repeated the company's optimistic forecasts for 2001. 

 In Canada, Roth has been the golden boy of the boardroom. Time magazine last year named him Canada's Newsmaker of the Year, calling him a "corporate superstar" since he took over Nortel (nyse: NT) in 1997. He is hugely admired as a modern high-tech road warrior who takes no prisoners. He has single-handedly transformed Nortel from a stodgy provider of traditional communications equipment to the world's No. 1 fiber optics supplier, outpacing and outmaneuvering rivals Cisco Systems Inc. and Lucent Technologies Inc. He has spent more than $20 billion buying 16 companies, mostly with Nortel's stock. 

 "Be ruthless about getting there first, because anything less than ruthless won't get you there," he has said. "Failure to go fast is the biggest risk the company faces," he's told employees. But has Roth finally crashed? 

 It's too early to say. But why did it take so long for Nortel to admit that, as one of the most important technology companies in the world, it was not invincible? 

 Last week, Roth was rocked by charges he telegraphed his profit concerns to select analysts. He has also had to defend fellow executives who sold vast amounts of stock weeks--in one case only days--before the disastrous announcement. 

 The Ontario Securities Commission is looking into these sales and also whether Nortel withheld valuable information from its shareholders. The commission will examine several events that preceded the profit warning. Roth took part in a Webcast three days before the Feb. 15 warning. He told institutional and retail clients of RBC Dominion Securities Inc. that carrier customers were reducing orders. "They're slowing down expenditures of capital like we've never witnessed before," he said. 

 As a result of the interview, analyst John Wilson wrote to his clients that "in our view, Nortel presented a more cautious outlook for growth in the first half of 2001." The report added, however, that Nortel appeared "more bullish on their longer-term prospects." 

 The next day, Nortel completed a $3 billion deal to buy, with Nortel stock, a laser manufacturing plant from JDS Uniphase Corp. of San Jose. 

 Then Roth told stunned shareholders that Nortel was expecting a 4 cent-per-share loss for first quarter 2001 on revenues of $6.3 billion instead of a 16 cent-per-share profit on revenues of $8.1 billion, as previously predicted. In less than 24 hours, the $3 billion in stock JDS Uniphase received for the Zurich plant had shrunk in value to $2 billion. Tony Muller, JDS chief financial officer, said the company is considering remedies, which it intends to discuss with Nortel. He squelched any rumors of a lawsuit. "We are currently not contemplating any litigation against Nortel," he said. "It's not easy to litigate with your largest customer." 

 Of equal concern to shareholders was the fact that three days before Nortel issued its profit warning, Bill Hawe, the company's chief technology officer, resigned and cashed in 602,000 Nortel share options. Nortel delayed the announcement of Hawe's resignation until last Tuesday. The company said Hawe left to seek other opportunities. 

 The $18.4 million he took with him should help. He sold out on Feb. 12 at $30.57 per share, three days before the profit warning that sent the stock tumbling to $20. 

 Other executives whose timing appears at first blush to be impeccable were William Conner, president of Nortel's E-business Solutions division, and Chahram Bolouri, the Montreal-based president of Nortel's global operations. A lawsuit filed this week by New York firm Milberg Weiss Berhsad Hynes & Lerach charges that the two executives sold more than $7 million in stock two weeks before the announcement. Nortel disputes the numbers, but admitted that Connor and Bolouri chose to exercise options on 240,000 and 120,000 shares, respectively. Both men increased their holdings because the sale entitled them to a second grant of options, Nortel said. 

 Roth brushed aside any charge of impropriety and dismissed the lawsuits as the product of case-hungry ambulance chasers. "These executives continue to demonstrate their belief in Nortel's leadership," he said. 

 Meaning his leadership. Roth assured a luncheon meeting of the Canadian Club at a Toronto hotel last week that he has no intention of leaving Nortel, at least not until his contract expires next year. He cracked jokes about how he could use some bodyguards and then told the packed house that times are changing. Nortel, he said, no longer gets the six months notice of declining orders from its 70 phone company clients. Now it's lucky if it gets a few weeks. 

 "We rolled out the announcement as quickly as we did so there wouldn't be any rumors floating around," Roth said. That's his line, and the speedster is sticking to it. 

FULL TEXT Electronic News Publishing Corp. THIS IS THE FULL TEXT: COPYRIGHT 2001 Cahners Publishing Company Subscription: $69.00 per year. Published weekly. 475 Park Avenue South, 2nd Floor, New York, NY 10016.

Document elnw000020010711dx2q0007z




 Nike Issues  Profit Warning , Cites Weak U.S. Revenue, Supply-System Woes 

1,004 words
26 February 2001
21:38
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 BEAVERTON, Ore. -- Nike Inc. issued a profit warning for its fiscal third quarter, citing weakness in U.S. footwear revenue and problems from new demand and supply planning systems. 

 Nike expects to report earnings in the range of 34 cents to 38 cents a share for the quarter ended Feb. 8, down from its earlier estimate for earnings of 50 cents to 55 cents a share. The mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial was for third-quarter earnings of 53 cents a share. 

 "We were anticipating a flat year-over-year third quarter largely because of weakness in our U.S. footwear revenues. During the quarter, we also experienced complications arising from the impact of implementing our new demand and supply planning systems and processes which resulted in product shortages and excesses as well as late deliveries," Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Philip H. Knight said in a prepared statement. 

 In the year-earlier quarter, Nike earned $145.3 million, or 52 cents a share, on revenue of $2.16 billion. 

 Mr. Knight said late Monday that complications in the demand and supply planning systems and processes have been worked out. 

 "While we are disappointed by the impact it has had on our third quarter, we believe that we have addressed the issues around this implementation and that over the long term, we will achieve significant financial and organizational benefit from our global supply chain initiative," Mr. Knight said. 

 The footwear company also said it doesn't expect to achieve its midteens earnings per share growth target, but that it does expect positive earnings per share growh for the full fiscal year. 

 "Nike's business is healthy in every area except one. We are enjoying strong results in all of our international regions, and in U.S. apparel and equipment; however, our U.S. footwear business continues to pose challenges," Mr. Knight said. 

 Nike said the recent success of NikeShox, its Women's Initiative, and Presto campaigns are "encouraging signs" that its U.S. footwear strategy is taking hold. However, the company said, more work remains to be done. 

 The company expects to aggressively target growth in the underserved, midpriced segment of the U.S. footwear market in order to achieve positive, sustainable results. 

 Nike also reaffirmed its guidance for fourth-quarter earnings of 60 cents to 65 cents a share. Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial had a mean estimate for earnings of 63 cents a share. 

 In a conference call with analysts following the announcement of the earnings shortfall, Nike executives said they believe the supply-chain difficulties are a one-time problem that will result in third-quarter revenue $80 million to $100 million below forecast. The executives also said they expect the inventory problems to be fixed by the first half of fiscal 2002. 

 Nike officials said inventory difficulties aside, they are seeing good results in Nike's U.S. retail business, led by strong results from its women's shoe and apparel campaign. The basketball business is coming back and the running business is still strong, executives said. 

 Nike is spending about $400 million to implement a new demand and supply planning system, with the U.S. operations seeing the first update. However, in the third quarter, as a result of some software and other problems associated with system implementation, the company experienced product shortages and excesses, as well as late deliveries. 

 "It's a process we have begun and I think it will, in the long-run, be a competitive advantage," Chairman and CEO Knight said of the new system, adding that he believes the third-quarter shortfall is a one-time occurrence. 

 Inventory problems are primarily affecting the company's business in the U.S., where the new inventory system is being implemented first, Mr. Knight said. In other parts of the world, Europe, Asia and Latin America, business remains strong. 

 Installing the new system is part of the company's focus on being a global company, "and it's not an easy process. I don't think any other company in the industry is further along than we are," Mr. Knight said. 

 Asked if the company might bring in new software rather than work with existing software, Chief Financial Officer Don Blair said Nike believes it has stabilized the problem. 

 "But obviously, we are putting in a lot of work to make sure it delivers what we know we have to," Mr. Blair said, adding that the company will make sure the system is working correctly before implementing it elsewhere in the world. 

 The major difficulty Nike is experiencing is product shortages and the loss of revenue and margin for products it can't deliver, Mr. Blair said. As these products belatedly enter the company's distribution system, there will be inventory buildup. "The excess inventory will flow into the system over a period of time," Mr. Blair said, adding that this won't be complete in the third quarter. "We feel confident we can do that in an orderly way." 

 Charles Denson, general manager of Nike's U.S. region, said the company is working with major retailers to minimize the effect this will have. 

 The executives said they would be aggressive in acting to move the inventory through the pipeline, but Mr. Denson said the company can do that without taking a big cut in margins. 

 Mr. Blair added that the company hasn't given any guidance about fiscal 2002 results, saying it is premature to do so and that the company doesn't have all of the numbers lined up yet. 

 Nike is expected to release third-quarter results March 20. 

 In 4 p.m. EST trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Nike (NKE) was up 17 cents to $49.17. Shares fell in after-hours trading to $41.50, according to Reuters' Instinet. 

 Copyright (c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020010711dx2q00bfz




 Technology 
 Sun's 3rd-Quarter Profit May Be Half of Estimates --- Server Maker Blames U.S. Economic Slowdown 

 By David P. Hamilton 
Staff Reporter
625 words
26 February 2001
The Asian Wall Street Journal
AWSJ
N2
English
 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Sun Microsystems Inc. became the latest casualty of a slowing U.S. economy, warning that profit in the current quarter could be as little as half what Wall Street expected, thanks to a sharp falloff in U.S. information-technology spending. 

 Michael Lehman, Sun's chief financial officer, said late Thursday that the Palo Alto, California, computer maker now expects earnings from operations of between seven cents and nine cents a diluted share for its fiscal third quarter ending in March. Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial had expected Sun to post earnings of 15 cents a share for that period. 

 In addition, Mr. Lehman said revenue in the quarter will rise only 10% to 13% compared with the year-earlier period. Last month, Mr. Lehman offered a sales projection that suggested Sun's revenue for the first half of the year would grow an average of roughly 18%. 

 Shares of Sun fell significantly recently as investors began to fear a cooling of the computer maker's white-hot growth. Following Sun's profit warning, its shares stood at $20.81 in 4 p.m. trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market Friday, unchanged from late Thursday trading. 

 Sun officials placed the blame squarely on the U.S. economic slowdown. This, they said, resulted in an unprecedented reduction in orders for Sun's big computer servers, which power corporate networks and many Internet operations. So far, they said, sales in Europe, Asia and other regions remain on target. 

 "We are disappointed in one and only one thing, and that is the performance of the U.S. economy," said Sun President Ed Zander at a midquarter conference call Thursday. "There is a lot of economic uncertainty and gloom and doom." 

 The profit warning is a significant comedown for highflying Sun, which for most of the past two years has sped ahead of its competition in the race to supply Internet infrastructure to dot-coms and traditional companies alike. Where personal-computer stalwarts such as Dell Computer Corp. and Intel Corp. stumbled as PC demand slowed, Sun was bolstered by seemingly bottomless demand for servers and related Internet infrastructure. 

 Thanks to blazing revenue growth, which not long ago rose as high as 60%, Sun invested aggressively in both production infrastructure and research and development. Now that growth is slowing, however, the company faces the prospect of underutilized production capacity, which hurts profit. 

 Mr. Lehman said that Sun sees no reason to cut back on such capacity at this point, and added that the company will still boost R&D spending by 20% in the current quarter. Sun, however, does plan more stringent cost controls, and will slow its hiring of R&D and sales personnel from between 1,500 and 2,000 positions in the current quarter to fewer than 500 people in the June quarter. 

 Some analysts, however, worry that Sun's problems could run more deeply. Toni Sacconaghi, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said he was concerned about a steep fall in Sun's expected gross margins, a measure of profit after the cost of making products. That decline leads him to wonder if Sun is having trouble ramping up output of new products or facing even more-severe price competition than it has so far let on. 

 "It begs the question as to what is really going on," Mr. Sacconaghi said. Other analysts and computer-industry executives suggest that Sun also faces competitive pressure from a robust market for second-hand servers, many of them sold off as a result of the dot-com crash. 

Document awsj000020010710dx2q002ur




 UPDATE 3-Motorola sees first-quarter shortfall, perhaps loss. [CORRECTED] 

 By Ben Klayman 
1,696 words
23 February 2001
16:57
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 (Adds company comments, updates stock activity, adds bylines, changes dateline from NEW YORK) 

 CHICAGO, Feb 23 (Reuters) - Wireless communications giant Motorola Inc. on Friday became the latest technology bellwether to signal the severity of the economy's slowdown, saying it could report its first quarterly operating loss in 15 years due to a dramatic drop in its business. 

 "As far as we are concerned, we are in a recession at this point, and it's a recession of confidence," President and Chief Operating Officer Robert Growney told analysts on a conference call. 

 "We need some confidence measures to bring this market back," he added, "but the recessive part of everyone's thinking right now is bleeding over very, very quickly into Europe and also into Asia Pacific." 

 In an effort to cut costs, Motorola, the world's No. 2 wireless handset maker behind Finland's Nokia Corp., will soon announce the sale or closure of four plants and is weighing doing the same with three other facilities, Growney said. He didn't identify the plants or when the decisions would be made. 

 The Schaumburg, Ill., company had already warned last month that its first-quarter results would suffer from a slowdown in its personal communications, or handset, and semiconductor businesses. 

 At that time, it projected first-quarter sales of $8.8 billion would be flat with a year earlier, while profits would drop to 12 cents per share from 20 cents. 

 Now, however, it said it won't meet that lowered guidance, and if the slowdown persists, it expects to report an operating loss for the quarter. 

 The last time Motorola recorded an operating loss was the third quarter of 1985, a company spokesman said. It posted a net loss in second quarter 1998, but that included a $2 billion charge. 

 After the latest warning, Motorola shares were down 76 cents, or 4.4 percent, at $16.53 in New York Stock Exchange trade on Friday morning. In premarket trading, however, the stock had slid as far as $15.75 - its lowest price since October 1998. 

 The stock - down more than 73 percent from its all-time high of $61.54 last March - has underperformed the Standard & Poor's 500 index .SPX) by about 65 percent in the past year. 

 Motorola's news also hit rivals Nokia and Sweden's Ericsson, the No. 3 player in the wireless handset business. Their shares fell to new year lows. 

 COMPETITORS SQUEEZING, BUT COMPANY SAYS NOT LOSING SHARE 

 Motorola has been facing intensifying competition in its handset business from Nokia and Ericsson. 

 But Motorola executives insisted on the conference call following its profit warning that the shortfall resulted from the sharp economic slowdown in the United States and inventory corrections taking place broadly in technology markets worldwide - not lost market share. 

 "We believe that this weakness is the result of current industry-wide conditions and not a loss in market share," Growney said in discussing the company's handset business. 

 Many European carriers, he added, are cutting spending to strengthen their balance sheets, including scaling back cell-phone subsidies that result in higher retail prices and lower consumer demand. He said Motorola sees global cell-phone sales possibly falling below 500 million this year, off from previous estimates of 525 million to 575 million. 

 In the semiconductor segment, Growney said, Motorola expects industry global business to be flat or down from last year, and the company's unit won't be profitable in the first quarter and possibly not for the year. 

 Even in businesses where Motorola sees growth for the year, Growney warned of softening demand in pockets or regions in reaction to fears of a U.S. economic slowdown. 

 Motorola said it will continue to actively adjust its cost structure in response to this environment and take additional cost reduction steps in the future. 

 Growney said Motorola will hold capital spending this year to significantly less than the $2.5 billion it had previously projected. Last year its capital outlays totaled $4 billion. 

 "We have fairly extreme volatility right now," Growney said. "When you look at the charts, some of the businesses are kind of in free-fall, when you look at rates of change." 

 MOTOROLA NOT ALONE, HIGH-TECH COS FEEL BROAD PROFIT CRUNCH 

 Motorola's warning follows a spate of profit and sales warnings from major technology companies in recent days. 

 On Thursday, network computer maker Sun Microsystems Inc. and data storage powerhouse EMC Corp. cut sales and profit targets, citing the slowdown in capital spending by large corporations. 

 And last week, telecommunications equipment maker Nortel Networks Corp., the world's biggest supplier of fiber-optic telecom gear, said it will post a first-quarter loss and lowered its revenue growth expectations for the year. 

 Other high-tech powerhouses like Cisco Systems Inc., JDS Uniphase Corp. and Ciena Corp. have recently ratcheted down expectations with slowdown warnings. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2001. 

 CORRECTION - In Chicago item headlined "UPDATE 3-Motorola sees first 

 quarter shortfall, perhaps loss," please read in last paragraph 

 "... and Corning Inc..." instead of "... and Ciena Corp. ..." 

 (corrects company). 

 A corrected version follows: 

 (Adds company comments, updates stock activity, adds bylines, changes datelin e from NEW YORK) 

 By Ben Klayman 

 CHICAGO, Feb 23 (Reuters) - Wireless communications giant Motorola Inc. on Friday became the latest technology bellwether to signal the severity of the economy's slowdown, saying it could report its first quarterly operating loss in 15 years due to a dramatic drop in its business. 

 "As far as we are concerned, we are in a recession at this point, and it's a recession of confidence," President and Chief Operating Officer Robert Growney told analysts on a conference call. 

 "We need some confidence measures to bring this market back," he added, "but the recessive part of everyone's thinking right now is bleeding over very, very quickly into Europe and also into Asia Pacific." 

 In an effort to cut costs, Motorola, the world's No. 2 wireless handset maker behind Finland's Nokia Corp., will soon announce the sale or closure of four plants and is weighing doing the same with three other facilities, Growney said. He didn't identify the plants or when the decisions would be made. 

 The Schaumburg, Ill., company had already warned last month that its first-qu arter results would suffer from a slowdown in its personal communications, or handset, and semiconductor businesses. 

 At that time, it projected first-quarter sales of $8.8 billion would be flat with a year earlier, while profits would drop to 12 cents per share from 20 cents. 

 Now, however, it said it won't meet that lowered guidance, and if the slowdow n persists, it expects to report an operating loss for the quarter. 

 The last time Motorola recorded an operating loss was the third quarter of 1985, a company spokesman said. It posted a net loss in second quarter 1998, but that included a $2 billion charge. 

 After the latest warning, Motorola shares were down 76 cents, or 4.4 percent, at $16.53 in New York Stock Exchange trade on Friday morning. In premarket trading, however, the stock had slid as far as $15.75 - its lowest price since October 1998. 

 The stock - down more than 73 percent from its all-time high of $61.54 last March - has underperformed the Standard & Poor's 500 index .SPX) by about 65 percent in the past year. 

 Motorola's news also hit rivals Nokia and Sweden's Ericsson, the No. 3 player in the wireless handset business. Their shares fell to new year lows. 

 COMPETITORS SQUEEZING, BUT COMPANY SAYS NOT LOSING SHARE 

 Motorola has been facing intensifying competition in its handset business from Nokia and Ericsson. 

 But Motorola executives insisted on the conference call following its profit warning that the shortfall resulted from the sharp economic slowdown in the United States and inventory corrections taking place broadly in technology markets worldwide - not lost market share. 

 "We believe that this weakness is the result of current industry-wide conditi ons and not a loss in market share," Growney said in discussing the company's handset business. 

 Many European carriers, he added, are cutting spending to strengthen their balance sheets, including scaling back cell-phone subsidies that result in higher retail prices and lower consumer demand. He said Motorola sees global cell-phone sales possibly falling below 500 million this year, off from previous estimates of 525 million to 575 million. 

 In the semiconductor segment, Growney said, Motorola expects industry global business to be flat or down from last year, and the company's unit won't be profitable in the first quarter and possibly not for the year. 

 Even in businesses where Motorola sees growth for the year, Growney warned of softening demand in pockets or regions in reaction to fears of a U.S. economic slowdown. 

 Motorola said it will continue to actively adjust its cost structure in respo nse to this environment and take additional cost reduction steps in the future. 

 Growney said Motorola will hold capital spending this year to significantly less than the $2.5 billion it had previously projected. Last year its capital outlays totaled $4 billion. 

 "We have fairly extreme volatility right now," Growney said. "When you look at the charts, some of the businesses are kind of in free-fall, when you look at rates of change." 

 MOTOROLA NOT ALONE, HIGH-TECH COS FEEL BROAD PROFIT CRUNCH 

 Motorola's warning follows a spate of profit and sales warnings from major technology companies in recent days. 

 On Thursday, network computer maker Sun Microsystems Inc. and data storage powerhouse EMC Corp. cut sales and profit targets, citing the slowdown in capital spending by large corporations. 

 And last week, telecommunications equipment maker Nortel Networks Corp., the world's biggest supplier of fiber-optic telecom gear, said it will post a first-quarter loss and lowered its revenue growth expectations for the year. 

 Other high-tech powerhouses like Cisco Systems Inc., JDS Uniphase Corp. and Corning Inc. have recently ratcheted down expectations with slowdown warnings. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2n05n6a




 UPDATE 6-Motorola sees first-quarter shortfall, perhaps loss. 

 By Ben Klayman 
1,120 words
23 February 2001
20:16
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 (Adds analyst comment, background, updates stock price in paragraphs 2-5, 9, 12, 28) 

 CHICAGO, Feb 23 (Reuters) - Wireless communications giant Motorola Inc. warned on Friday that a dramatic sales slowdown could lead to its first quarterly operating loss in 15 years, as its president became the latest top executive in the slumping technology sector to stoke fears of a recession. 

 "As far as we are concerned, we are in a recession at this point, and it's a recession of confidence," President and Chief Operating Officer Robert Growney told analysts on a conference call. He spoke less than a week after the head of networking giant Cisco Systems Inc. warned of a recession in much of the U.S. economy. 

 "We need some confidence measures to bring this market back," Growney added, "but the recessive part of everyone's thinking right now is bleeding over very, very quickly into Europe and also into Asia Pacific." 

 Motorola, the world's No. 2 wireless handset maker behind Finland's Nokia Corp., in a cost-cutting move will soon announce the sale or closure of four of its 55 plants and is weighing the same with three others, Growney said. He did not identify the plants or timing of the decisions. 

 The company's shares fell $1.14, or 6.6 percent, at $16.15 in New York Stock Exchange trade on Friday afternoon. In premarket trading, however, the stock had slid as low as $15.75 - its lowest price since October 1998. 

 Motorola's news also hit rivals Nokia and Sweden's Ericsson, the No. 3 player in the wireless handset business. Their shares fell to new year lows. 

 Following on the heels of slowdown warnings on Thursday from network computer maker Sun Microsystems Inc. and data storage powerhouse EMC Corp., Motorola's news drove U.S. stock markets lower. 

 Analysts and portfolio managers said Motorola's news was not surprising in light of the recent warnings by other telecom companies. 

 "It's a confirmation of our perception that this is going to be a long run back for Motorola," Jerome Castellini, president of Chicago fund company CastleArk Management, said. 

 OUTLOOK TIED TO ECONOMY 

 Motorola, which employed 147,000 at the end of 2000, had already warned last month that its first-quarter results would suffer from a slowdown in its personal communications, or handset, and semiconductor businesses. Since the beginning of the year, the Schaumburg, Ill., company has cut almost 7,000 jobs in various units. 

 In last month's warning, the company projected first-quarter sales of $8.8 billion would be flat with a year earlier, while profits would drop to 12 cents per share from 20 cents. 

 Now, however, it said it won't meet that lowered guidance, and if the slowdown persists, it expects to report an operating loss when it announces first-quarter results in early April. 

 The last time Motorola posted an operating loss was the third quarter of 1985, a spokesman said. It posted a net loss in second quarter 1998, but that included a $2 billion charge. 

 Tim Ghriskey, a portfolio manager with Dreyfus Fund, which has reduced its Motorola holdings, said investors will have to wait for a recovery in Motorola stock. 

 "It's hard to see the stock outperforming in the near term until we see some economic recovery." 

 Down more than 73 percent from its all-time high of $61.54 last March, Motorola stock has underperformed the Standard & Poor's 500 index .SPX) by about 65 percent in the past year. 

 Credit rating agency Standard & Poor's responded by putting its "single-A" senior long-term and "A-1" short-term ratings for Motorola on review for a possible downgrade. 

 COMPETITION FROM NOKIA AND ERICSSON 

 Motorola has been facing intensifying competition in its handset business from Nokia and Ericsson. 

 But Motorola executives insisted on the conference call following its profit warning that the shortfall resulted from the sharp economic slowdown in the United States and inventory corrections taking place broadly in technology markets worldwide - not lost market share. 

 "We believe that this weakness is the result of current industry-wide conditions and not a loss in market share," Growney said in discussing the company's handset business. 

 Many European carriers, he added, are cutting spending to strengthen their balance sheets, including scaling back cell-phone subsidies that result in higher retail prices and lower consumer demand. He said Motorola sees global cell-phone sales possibly falling below 500 million this year, off from previous estimates of 525 million to 575 million. 

 In the semiconductor segment, Growney said, Motorola expects industry global business to be flat or down from last year, and the company's unit won't be profitable in the first quarter and possibly not for the year. 

 Even in businesses where Motorola sees growth for the year, Growney warned of softening demand in pockets or regions in reaction to fears of a U.S. economic slowdown. 

 Motorola said it would take additional cost reduction steps in the future. 

 Growney said Motorola will hold capital spending this year to significantly less than the $2.5 billion it had previously projected. Last year its capital outlays totaled $4 billion. 

 "We have fairly extreme volatility right now," Growney said. "When you look at the charts, some of the businesses are kind of in free-fall, when you look at rates of change." 

 MOTOROLA NOT ALONE, HIGH-TECH COS FEEL BROAD PROFIT CRUNCH 

 Motorola's warning follows a spate of profit and sales warnings from major technology companies in recent days. 

 Cisco Chief Executive John Chambers told a Swedish business newspaper on Saturday that much of the U.S. economy is in recession and said the Federal Reserve should have cut interest rates last November instead of waiting until January. 

 On Thursday, Sun Microsystems and EMC cut sales and profit targets, citing the slowdown in capital spending by large corporations. 

 And last week, telecommunications equipment maker Nortel Networks Corp., the world's biggest supplier of fiber-optic telecom gear, said it will post a first-quarter loss and lowered its revenue growth expectations for the year. 

 Other high-tech powerhouses like Cisco, JDS Uniphase Corp. and Corning Inc. have recently ratcheted down expectations with slowdown warnings. And they won't be the last, said Walter Casey, co-manager of Bank One Investment Advisors' technology fund. 

 "The entire (telecom) area for awhile may be under a cloud," he said. "There are serious finance issues, serious issues of profitability in customer base and in the supplier base and I don't think that's a short term issue." 

Document lba0000020010713dx2n0573d




 UPDATE 5-Motorola sees first-quarter shortfall, perhaps loss. 

 By Ben Klayman 
1,126 words
23 February 2001
19:38
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 (Recasts first paragraph, updates stock price in fifth paragraph) 

 CHICAGO, Feb 23 (Reuters) - Wireless communications giant Motorola Inc. warned on Friday that a dramatic sales slowdown could lead to its first quarterly operating loss in 15 years, as its president became the latest top executive in the slumping technology sector to stoke fears of a recession. 

 "As far as we are concerned, we are in a recession at this point, and it's a recession of confidence," President and Chief Operating Officer Robert Growney told analysts. He spoke less than a week after the leader of networking giant Cisco Systems Inc. warned of a U.S. recession. 

 "We need some confidence measures to bring this market back," he added on a conference call, "but the recessive part of everyone's thinking right now is bleeding over very, very quickly into Europe and also into Asia Pacific." 

 Motorola, the world's No. 2 wireless handset maker behind Finland's Nokia Corp., will soon announce the sale or closure of four of its 55 plants and is weighing doing the same with three others, Growney said. He did not identify the plants or when the decisions would be made. 

 The company's shares fell sharply. Motorola was down $1.23 or 7.1 percent, at $16.06 in New York Stock Exchange trade on Friday afternoon. In premarket trading, however, the stock had slid as low as $15.75 - its lowest price since October 1998. 

 Motorola's news also hit rivals Nokia and Sweden's Ericsson, the No. 3 player in the wireless handset business. Their shares fell to new year lows. 

 Following on the heels of slowdown warnings on Thursday from network computer maker Sun Microsystems Inc. and data storage powerhouse EMC Corp., Motorola's news drove U.S. stock markets lower. 

 Analysts and portfolio managers said Motorola's news was not surprising in light of the recent warnings by other telecom companies. 

 "Motorola is starting down the road that a lot of these companies are going to end up going down in the next couple quarters," Jerome Castellini, president of Chicago fund company CastleArk Management said. "They built cost structures for growing revenues and unfortunately the revenues aren't going to be there." 

 OUTLOOK TIED TO ECONOMY 

 Motorola, which employed 147,000 at the end of 2000, had already warned last month that its first-quarter results would suffer from a slowdown in its personal communications, or handset, and semiconductor businesses. Since the beginning of the year, the Schaumburg, Ill., company has cut almost 7,000 jobs in various units. 

 In last month's warning, the company projected first-quarter sales of $8.8 billion would be flat with a year earlier, while profits would drop to 12 cents per share from 20 cents. 

 Now, however, it said it won't meet that lowered guidance, and if the slowdown persists, it expects to report an operating loss for the quarter. 

 The last time Motorola posted an operating loss was the third quarter of 1985, a spokesman said. It posted a net loss in second quarter 1998, but that included a $2 billion charge. 

 Tim Ghriskey, a portfolio manager with Dreyfus Fund, which has reduced its Motorola holdings, said investors will have to wait for a recovery in Motorola stock. 

 "It's hard to see the stock outperforming in the near term until we see some economic recovery." 

 Down more than 73 percent from its all-time high of $61.54 last March, Motorola stock has underperformed the Standard & Poor's 500 index .SPX) by about 65 percent in the past year. 

 Credit rating agency Standard & Poor's responded by putting its "single-A" senior long-term and "A-1" short-term ratings for Motorola on review for a possible downgrade. 

 COMPETITION FROM NOKIA AND ERICSSON 

 Motorola has been facing intensifying competition in its handset business from Nokia and Ericsson. 

 But Motorola executives insisted on the conference call following its profit warning that the shortfall resulted from the sharp economic slowdown in the United States and inventory corrections taking place broadly in technology markets worldwide - not lost market share. 

 "We believe that this weakness is the result of current industry-wide conditions and not a loss in market share," Growney said in discussing the company's handset business. 

 Many European carriers, he added, are cutting spending to strengthen their balance sheets, including scaling back cell-phone subsidies that result in higher retail prices and lower consumer demand. He said Motorola sees global cell-phone sales possibly falling below 500 million this year, off from previous estimates of 525 million to 575 million. 

 In the semiconductor segment, Growney said, Motorola expects industry global business to be flat or down from last year, and the company's unit won't be profitable in the first quarter and possibly not for the year. 

 Even in businesses where Motorola sees growth for the year, Growney warned of softening demand in pockets or regions in reaction to fears of a U.S. economic slowdown. 

 Motorola said it would take additional cost reduction steps in the future. 

 Growney said Motorola will hold capital spending this year to significantly less than the $2.5 billion it had previously projected. Last year its capital outlays totaled $4 billion. 

 "We have fairly extreme volatility right now," Growney said. "When you look at the charts, some of the businesses are kind of in free-fall, when you look at rates of change." 

 MOTOROLA NOT ALONE, HIGH-TECH COS FEEL BROAD PROFIT CRUNCH 

 Motorola's warning follows a spate of profit and sales warnings from major technology companies in recent days. 

 Cisco Chief Executive John Chambers told a Swedish business newspaper on Saturday that the United States is suffering a recession and said the Federal Reserve should have cut interest rates last November instead of waiting until January. 

 On Thursday, Sun Microsystems and EMC cut sales and profit targets, citing the slowdown in capital spending by large corporations. 

 And last week, telecommunications equipment maker Nortel Networks Corp., the world's biggest supplier of fiber-optic telecom gear, said it will post a first-quarter loss and lowered its revenue growth expectations for the year. 

 Other high-tech powerhouses like Cisco, JDS Uniphase Corp. and Corning Inc. have recently ratcheted down expectations with slowdown warnings. And they won't be the last, said Walter Casey, co-manager of Bank One Investment Advisors' technology fund. 

 "The entire (telecom) area for awhile may be under a cloud," he said. "There are serious finance issues, serious issues of profitability in customer base and in the supplier base and I don't think that's a short term issue." 

Document lba0000020010713dx2n0571m




 UPDATE 4-Motorola sees first-quarter shortfall, perhaps loss. 

 By Ben Klayman 
1,120 words
23 February 2001
19:29
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 (Recasts, adds analyst comments, background, updates stock activity) 

 CHICAGO, Feb 23 (Reuters) - Wireless communications giant Motorola Inc. warned on Friday that a dramatic sales slowdown could lead to its first quarterly operating loss in 15 years, as its president became the latest top executive in the slumping technology sector to use the dreaded "R" word. 

 "As far as we are concerned, we are in a recession at this point, and it's a recession of confidence," President and Chief Operating Officer Robert Growney told analysts less than a week after the leader of networking giant Cisco Systems Inc. warned of a U.S. recession. 

 "We need some confidence measures to bring this market back," he added on a conference call, "but the recessive part of everyone's thinking right now is bleeding over very, very quickly into Europe and also into Asia Pacific." 

 Motorola, the world's No. 2 wireless handset maker behind Finland's Nokia Corp., will soon announce the sale or closure of four of its 55 plants and is weighing doing the same with three others, Growney said. He did not identify the plants or when the decisions would be made. 

 The company's shares were down $1.00 or 5.8 percent, at $16.29 in New York Stock Exchange trade on Friday afternoon. In premarket trading, however, the stock had slid as low as $15.75 - its lowest price since October 1998. 

 Motorola's news also hit rivals Nokia and Sweden's Ericsson, the No. 3 player in the wireless handset business. Their shares fell to new year lows. 

 Following on the heels of slowdown warnings on Thursday from network computer maker Sun Microsystems Inc. and data storage powerhouse EMC Corp., Motorola's news drove U.S. stock markets lower. 

 Analysts and portfolio managers said Motorola's news was not surprising in light of the recent warnings by other telecom companies. 

 "Motorola is starting down the road that a lot of these companies are going to end up going down in the next couple quarters," Jerome Castellini, president of Chicago fund company CastleArk Management said. "They built cost structures for growing revenues and unfortunately the revenues aren't going to be there." 

 OUTLOOK TIED TO ECONOMY 

 Motorola, which employed 147,000 at the end of 2000, had already warned last month that its first-quarter results would suffer from a slowdown in its personal communications, or handset, and semiconductor businesses. Since the beginning of the year, the Schaumburg, Ill., company has cut almost 7,000 jobs in various units. 

 In last month's warning, the company projected first-quarter sales of $8.8 billion would be flat with a year earlier, while profits would drop to 12 cents per share from 20 cents. 

 Now, however, it said it won't meet that lowered guidance, and if the slowdown persists, it expects to report an operating loss for the quarter. 

 The last time Motorola posted an operating loss was the third quarter of 1985, a spokesman said. It posted a net loss in second quarter 1998, but that included a $2 billion charge. 

 Tim Ghriskey, a portfolio manager with Dreyfus Fund, which has reduced its Motorola holdings, said investors will have to wait for a recovery in Motorola stock. 

 "It's hard to see the stock outperforming in the near term until we see some economic recovery." 

 Down more than 73 percent from its all-time high of $61.54 last March, Motorola stock has underperformed the Standard & Poor's 500 index .SPX) by about 65 percent in the past year. 

 Credit rating agency Standard & Poor's responded by putting its "single-A" senior long-term and "A-1" short-term ratings for Motorola on review for a possible downgrade. 

 COMPETITION FROM NOKIA AND ERICSSON 

 Motorola has been facing intensifying competition in its handset business from Nokia and Ericsson. 

 But Motorola executives insisted on the conference call following its profit warning that the shortfall resulted from the sharp economic slowdown in the United States and inventory corrections taking place broadly in technology markets worldwide - not lost market share. 

 "We believe that this weakness is the result of current industry-wide conditions and not a loss in market share," Growney said in discussing the company's handset business. 

 Many European carriers, he added, are cutting spending to strengthen their balance sheets, including scaling back cell-phone subsidies that result in higher retail prices and lower consumer demand. He said Motorola sees global cell-phone sales possibly falling below 500 million this year, off from previous estimates of 525 million to 575 million. 

 In the semiconductor segment, Growney said, Motorola expects industry global business to be flat or down from last year, and the company's unit won't be profitable in the first quarter and possibly not for the year. 

 Even in businesses where Motorola sees growth for the year, Growney warned of softening demand in pockets or regions in reaction to fears of a U.S. economic slowdown. 

 Motorola said it would take additional cost reduction steps in the future. 

 Growney said Motorola will hold capital spending this year to significantly less than the $2.5 billion it had previously projected. Last year its capital outlays totaled $4 billion. 

 "We have fairly extreme volatility right now," Growney said. "When you look at the charts, some of the businesses are kind of in free-fall, when you look at rates of change." 

 MOTOROLA NOT ALONE, HIGH-TECH COS FEEL BROAD PROFIT CRUNCH 

 Motorola's warning follows a spate of profit and sales warnings from major technology companies in recent days. 

 Cisco Chief Executive John Chambers told a Swedish business newspaper on Saturday that the United States is suffering a recession and said the Federal Reserve should have cut interest rates last November instead of waiting until January. 

 On Thursday, Sun Microsystems and EMC cut sales and profit targets, citing the slowdown in capital spending by large corporations. 

 And last week, telecommunications equipment maker Nortel Networks Corp., the world's biggest supplier of fiber-optic telecom gear, said it will post a first-quarter loss and lowered its revenue growth expectations for the year. 

 Other high-tech powerhouses like Cisco, JDS Uniphase Corp. and Corning Inc. have recently ratcheted down expectations with slowdown warnings. And they won't be the last, said Walter Casey, co-manager of Bank One Investment Advisors' technology fund. 

 "The entire (telecom) area for awhile may be under a cloud," he said. "There are serious finance issues, serious issues of profitability in customer base and in the supplier base and I don't think that's a short term issue." 

Document lba0000020010713dx2n0570k




 Motorola sounds alarm bell. 

528 words
23 February 2001
15:26
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 The U.S. firm said it could make an operating loss in the first quarter due to slowing economic growth. 

 NEW YORK, Feb 23 (Reuters) - Wireless communications gear maker Motorola Inc. said on Friday a dramatic drop in its business could lead to its first quarterly operating loss in more than 15 years as it becomes the latest technology bellwether to signal the severity of the U.S. economy's slowdown. 

 Schaumburg, Ill.-based Motorola, the world's No. 2 wireless handset maker behind Finland's Nokia Corp. , had already warned last month that its first-quarter results would suffer from a slowdown in its personal communications and semiconductor businesses. 

 At that time, it projected first-quarter sales of $8.8 billion would be flat with a year earlier, while profits would drop to 12 cents per share from 20 cents. 

 Now, however, it said it won't meet that lowered guidance, and if the slowdown persists, it expects to report an operating loss for the quarter. 

 The last time Motorola recorded an operating loss was the third quarter of 1985, a company spokesman said. It posted a net loss in second quarter 1998, but that included a $2 billion charge. 

 After the latest warning, Motorola shares were down 89 cents, or 5.2 percent, at $16.40 in New York Stock Exchange trade on Friday morning. In premarket trading, however, the stock had slid as far as $15.75 - its lowest price since October 1998. 

 The stock - down more than 73 percent from its all-time high of $61.54 last March - has underperformed the Standard & Poor's 500 index by more than 85 percent in the past year. 

 COMPETITORS SQUEEZING, BUT COMPANY SAYS NOT LOSING SHARE 

 Motorola has been facing intensifying competition in its handset business from Nokia and Sweden's Ericsson , the No. 3 player worldwide. 

 But Motorola executives insisted in a conference call following its profit warning that the shortfall resulted from the sharp economic slowdown in the United States and inventory corrections taking place broadly in technology markets worldwide - not lost market share. 

 "We believe that this weakness is the result of current industry-wide conditions and not a loss in market share," President and Chief Operating Officer Robert Growney told analysts. 

 The company said it will continue to actively adjust its cost structure in response to this environment and take additional cost reduction steps in the future. 

 Growney said Motorola will hold capital spending this year to less than the $2.5 billion it had previously projected. Last year its capital outlays totaled $4 billion. 

 MOTOROLA NOT ALONE, HIGH-TECH COS FEEL BROAD PROFIT CRUNCH 

 Motorola's warning follows a spate of profit and sales warnings from major technology companies in recent days. 

 On Thursday, network computer maker Sun Microsystems Inc. and data storage powerhouse EMC Corp. cut sales and profit targets, citing the slowdown in capital spending by large corporations. 

 And last week, telecommunications equipment maker Nortel Networks Corp. , the world's biggest supplier of fiber-optic telecom gear, said it will post a first-quarter loss and lowered its revenue growth expectations for the year. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2n056ya




 UPDATE 2-Motorola sees first-quarter shortfall, perhaps loss. 

514 words
23 February 2001
15:20
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Feb 23 (Reuters) - Wireless communications gear maker Motorola Inc. said on Friday a dramatic drop in its business could lead to its first quarterly operating loss in more than 15 years as it becomes the latest technology bellwether to signal the severity of the U.S. economy's slowdown. 

 Schaumburg, Ill.-based Motorola, the world's No. 2 wireless handset maker behind Finland's Nokia Corp., had already warned last month that its first-quarter results would suffer from a slowdown in its personal communications and semiconductor businesses. 

 At that time, it projected first-quarter sales of $8.8 billion would be flat with a year earlier, while profits would drop to 12 cents per share from 20 cents. 

 Now, however, it said it won't meet that lowered guidance, and if the slowdown persists, it expects to report an operating loss for the quarter. 

 The last time Motorola recorded an operating loss was the third quarter of 1985, a company spokesman said. It posted a net loss in second quarter 1998, but that included a $2 billion charge. 

 After the latest warning, Motorola shares were down 89 cents, or 5.2 percent, at $16.40 in New York Stock Exchange trade on Friday morning. In premarket trading, however, the stock had slid as far as $15.75 - its lowest price since October 1998. 

 The stock - down more than 73 percent from its all-time high of $61.54 last March - has underperformed the Standard & Poor's 500 index .SPX) by more than 85 percent in the past year. 

 COMPETITORS SQUEEZING, BUT COMPANY SAYS NOT LOSING SHARE 

 Motorola has been facing intensifying competition in its handset business from Nokia and Sweden's Ericsson, the No. 3 player worldwide. 

 But Motorola executives insisted in a conference call following its profit warning that the shortfall resulted from the sharp economic slowdown in the United States and inventory corrections taking place broadly in technology markets worldwide - not lost market share. 

 "We believe that this weakness is the result of current industry-wide conditions and not a loss in market share," President and Chief Operating Officer Robert Growney told analysts. 

 The company said it will continue to actively adjust its cost structure in response to this environment and take additional cost reduction steps in the future. 

 Growney said Motorola will hold capital spending this year to less than the $2.5 billion it had previously projected. Last year its capital outlays totaled $4 billion. 

 MOTOROLA NOT ALONE, HIGH-TECH COS FEEL BROAD PROFIT CRUNCH 

 Motorola's warning follows a spate of profit and sales warnings from major technology companies in recent days. 

 On Thursday, network computer maker Sun Microsystems Inc. and data storage powerhouse EMC Corp. cut sales and profit targets, citing the slowdown in capital spending by large corporations. 

 And last week, telecommunications equipment maker Nortel Networks Corp., the world's biggest supplier of fiber-optic telecom gear, said it will post a first-quarter loss and lowered its revenue growth expectations for the year. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2n056xj




 UPDATE 1-Motorola sees first-quarter shortfall, perhaps loss. 

309 words
23 February 2001
13:53
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 (recasts, adds details, background, previously SCHAUMBURG, Ill.) 

 NEW YORK, Feb 23 (Reuters) - Wireless communications equipment maker Motorola Inc. on Friday said a sharp fall-off in orders could lead to a first-quarter loss, as it becomes the latest technology bellwether to signal the severity of the slowdown in the U.S. economy. 

 Schaumburg, Ill.-based Motorola, the world's No. 2 wireless handset maker, had already warned last month that first-quarter results would suffer from a slowdown in its personal communications and semiconductor businesses. 

 At that time, it projected first-quarter sales of $8.8 billion, flat with a year earlier, and a profit of 12 cents per share, down sharply from 20 cents per share in the first quarter of 2000. 

 Now, however, it said it won't meet that lowered guidance, and if the slowdown persists, it expects to report an operating loss for the quarter. 

 Motorola shares fell nearly 9 percent in pre-market trading Friday morning following the warning. The stock was down $1.54 at $15.75 - its lowest price since October 1998 - from Thursday's closing price on the New York Stock Exchange of $17.29. 

 Motorola said it believes that the sharp economic slowdown occurring in the United States and inventory corrections taking place broadly in technology markets worldwide have caused the adverse change in its order pattern. 

 It said it would continue to actively adjust its cost structure in response to this environment and take additional cost reduction steps in the future. 

 Motorola's warning follows a spate of profit and sales warnings from major technology companies in the last several days. On Thursday, network computer maker Sun Microsystems Inc. and data storage powerhouse EMC Corp. cut sales and profit targets, citing the slowdown in capital spending by large corporations. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2n056nl




 Mobile phone show brings industry back to earth. 

 By Catherine Bremer 
764 words
23 February 2001
17:23
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 CANNES, France, Feb 23 (Reuters) - Some 6,000 delegates walked away from the mobile telecom's industry's biggest annual event on Friday with a sharp reality check over the much-hyped mobile Internet resounding in their ears. 

 While the product displays were as flashy and the beachside parties as lavish as a year ago, sobering news of delays in ext-generation mobile phone technology left visitors to the 2001 GSM World Congress with worse hangovers than usual. 

 The message, landing amid a fresh sell-off in telecom and tech shares on the back of a Motorola profit warning, confirmed what industry watchers have long suspected. 

 The Dow Jones European technology stock index lost 5.5 percent at 521.20 points in Friday afternoon trade, following the Motorola warning. Telecom stocks were down 2.0 percent at 419.81 points. 

 "I've been coming to Cannes for four years, and the mood is nothing like before," said a Finnish venture capitalist, scouring the crowds for contacts at a Nokia-hosted party. 

 "The hype has gone and there's one question on everybody's lips - where are the blasted revenues?," he added. 

 Japanese cellphone giant NTT DoCoMo will take the lead in May, when it plans to hook up the world's first fast wireless Internet phones to so-called third-generation networks. The rest of the world will be much slower. 

 Europe has yet to embrace so-called 2.5-generation GPRS services, and many operators and equipment makers now expect this will also delay the roll-out of third-generation UMTS networks. 

 All these delays mean revenue gains will take a lot longer to help cut the debt burden of mobile operators, which are expected to invest around 200 billion euros ($180 billion) on third-generation UMTS mobile phone licences and equipment. 

 "So far in Cannes, we've seen a hell of a lot of technology and vision but not many actual numbers. People have been selling the future; it's been very over-hyped, people are disappointed," Olav Ostin, UK managing director of venture captial firm ETF Group which has $800 million invested in techs and wireless, told Reuters in an interview. 

 "It's no good spending billions of dollars on infrastructure and saying we'll have to wait four years before you put any services together. Operators have to develop new services now and not wait around for capacity to increase," he added. 

 ORDER DELAY 

 As analysts tear out their hair over the slower-than-expected rollout of the mobile Internet, many carriers, equipment makers and service developers reported delays. 

 Alcatel said this week it did not expect the bulk of its UMTS contracts to be signed for another three to six months. 

 Europe's number two mobile operator Orange , which wowed delegates with its vision of a futuristic voice-controlled 3G home and still insisted UMTS will be profitable four to seven years after its 2002 launch, has yet to sign up suppliers. 

 Orange has also pushed back its expectations for a full commercial GPRS rollout until next year. 

 French rival Bouygues Telecom, the only European operator to opt out of a UMTS licence in its home turf, will focus on interim GPRS technology. 

 It plans to start testing GPRS services with 4,000 clients from the summer and hopes to launch in December. But it has yet to sign a deal with its GSM supplier, Nortel Networks, about upgrading its network. 

 PARTNERSHIPS, CONSOLIDATION KEY 

 As consumers and investors become increasingly impatient, mobile operators are likely to forge more alliances with service and content providers. Equipment makers are also likelyt to work more closely with component and software suppliers. 

 Sending text and picture messages between phones is seen as a key application to squeeze revenues out of subscribers ahead of more sophisticated services. Software firms are racing to add catchy new visuals to SMS (short messaging services) and mobile email. 

 For the smallest players, for whom the delays throw cashflow forecasts into turmoil, industry watchers expect ever faster consolidation. 

 "A one year delay in revenues for a small company is the difference between life and death. There are too many of these firms around, and even if 50 percent go bankrupt in the next 12 months, we need to clear the space, so we will definitely see more consolidation," said ETF's Ostin. 

 "Those that will take off will be ones that can produce a component with cutting edge technology to make it cheaper for network builders," he added. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2n056ek




 UPDATE 7-Motorola sees first-quarter shortfall, perhaps loss. 

 By Ben Klayman 
1,096 words
23 February 2001
00:00
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 (Tightens throughout, adds Moody's action, updates stock price) 

 CHICAGO, Feb 23 (Reuters) - Wireless communications giant Motorola Inc. warned on Friday that a dramatic sales slowdown could lead to its first quarterly operating loss in 15 years, as its president became the latest top executive in the slumping technology sector to stoke fears of a recession. 

 "As far as we are concerned, we are in a recession at this point, and it's a recession of confidence," President and Chief Operating Officer Robert Growney told analysts on a conference call. He spoke less than a week after the head of networking giant Cisco Systems Inc. warned of a recession in much of the U.S. economy. 

 "We need some confidence measures to bring this market back," Growney added, "but the recessive part of everyone's thinking right now is bleeding over very, very quickly into Europe and also into Asia Pacific." 

 Motorola, the world's No. 2 wireless handset maker behind Finland's Nokia Corp., in a cost-cutting move will soon announce the sale or closure of four of its 55 plants, Growney said. It also is weighing the same approach with three other facilities, but no details were provided. 

 Motorola shares closed off $1.04, or 6 percent, at $16.25 in New York Stock Exchange trade on Friday. In premarket trading, however, the stock had slid as low as $15.75 - its lowest price since October 1998. 

 Motorola's news also hit rivals Nokia and Sweden's Ericsson, the No. 3 player in the wireless handset business. Their shares fell to new 52-week lows, but Ericsson rebounded to close up 1/8 at $8-1/4 on Nasdaq. 

 After slowdown warnings on Thursday from network computer maker Sun Microsystems Inc. and data storage powerhouse EMC Corp., Motorola's news drove U.S. stock markets lower. 

 Analysts and portfolio managers said Motorola's news was not surprising in light of the other recent slowdown warnings. 

 "It's a confirmation of our perception that this is going to be a long run back for Motorola," Jerome Castellini, president of Chicago fund company CastleArk Management, said. 

 OUTLOOK TIED TO ECONOMY 

 Motorola, which employed 147,000 at the end of 2000, had already warned last month that its first-quarter results would suffer from a slowdown in its personal communications, or handset, and semiconductor businesses. Since the beginning of the year, the Schaumburg, Ill., company has cut almost 7,000 jobs in various units. 

 In January's warning, the company projected first-quarter sales of $8.8 billion would be flat with a year earlier, while profits would drop to 12 cents a share from 20 cents. 

 Now, however, it said it won't meet that lowered guidance, and if the slowdown persists, it expects to report an operating loss when it announces first-quarter results in early April. 

 The last time Motorola posted an operating loss was the third quarter of 1985, a spokesman said. It posted a net loss in second quarter 1998, but that included a $2 billion charge. 

 Tim Ghriskey, a portfolio manager with Dreyfus Fund, which has reduced its Motorola holdings, said investors will have to wait for a recovery in Motorola stock. 

 "It's hard to see the stock outperforming in the near term until we see some economic recovery." 

 Down more than 73 percent from its all-time high of $61.54 last March, Motorola stock has underperformed the Standard & Poor's 500 index .SPX) by about 65 percent in the past year. 

 After the warning, credit rating agency Standard & Poor's put its "single-A" senior long-term and "A-1" short-term ratings for Motorola's debt on review for a possible downgrade. Moody's Investors Service also warned of a possible downgrade. 

 COMPETITION FROM NOKIA AND ERICSSON 

 Motorola has been facing intensifying competition in its handset business from Nokia and Ericsson. 

 But Motorola executives insisted on the conference call following the profit warning that the shortfall resulted not from lost market share, but rather from the sharp U.S. economic slowdown and broad inventory corrections across technology markets worldwide. 

 "We believe that this weakness is the result of current industry-wide conditions and not a loss in market share," Growney said in discussing the company's handset business. 

 Many European carriers, he added, are cutting spending to strengthen their balance sheets. He noted that the Europeans were scaling back cell-phone subsidies they had used to keep prices low, and boost consumer demand. 

 Growney said Motorola sees global cell-phone sales possibly falling below 500 million this year, off from previous estimates of 525 million to 575 million. 

 In the semiconductor segment, Growney said, Motorola expects industry global business to be flat or down from last year, and the company's unit won't be profitable in the first quarter and possibly not for the year. 

 Even in businesses where Motorola sees growth for the year, Growney warned of softening demand in pockets or regions in reaction to fears of a U.S. economic slowdown. 

 Motorola also will take additional cost reduction steps. 

 Growney said Motorola will hold capital spending this year to significantly less than the $2.5 billion it had previously projected. Last year its capital outlays totaled $4 billion. 

 MOTOROLA NOT ALONE, HIGH-TECH COS FEEL BROAD PROFIT CRUNCH 

 Motorola's warning follows a spate of profit and sales warnings from major technology companies in recent days. 

 Cisco Chief Executive John Chambers told a Swedish business newspaper on Saturday that much of the U.S. economy is in recession and said the Federal Reserve should have cut interest rates last November instead of waiting until January. 

 On Thursday, Sun Microsystems and EMC cut sales and profit targets, citing the slowdown in capital spending. 

 And last week, telecommunications equipment maker Nortel Networks Corp., the world's biggest supplier of fiber-optic telecom gear, said it will post a first-quarter loss and lowered its revenue growth expectations for the year. 

 Other high-tech powerhouses like Cisco, JDS Uniphase Corp. and Corning Inc. have recently ratcheted down expectations with slowdown warnings. And they won't be the last, said Walter Casey, co-manager of Bank One Investment Advisors' technology fund. 

 "The entire (telecom) area for awhile may be under a cloud," he said. "There are serious finance issues, serious issues of profitability in customer base and in the supplier base and I don't think that's a short term issue." 

Document lba0000020010713dx2n056a5




 Eurostocks end at 16-month lows as techs crumble. 

 By Huw Jones 
994 words
23 February 2001
19:53
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, Feb 23 (Reuters) - European shares ended a miserable week at 16-month lows on Friday as more high-profile profit warnings in the tech sector sent investors scurrying, with few betting the news won't get any worse. 

 The FTSE Eurotop 300 index of the region's top 300 blue chips closed down 1.9 percent at 1,419.58 points, its lowest since November 24, 1999. 

 The index is down seven percent for the year, with more than half the loss chalked up this week alone as worries mount about telecom debts, and the slowing U.S. economy and higher inflation which may hinder the Fed from making hefty rate cuts. 

 Europe's already battered techs spilled more blood after America's Motorola wireless communications gear maker said a dramatic drop in its business could lead to its first quarterly operating loss in more than 15 years. 

 Motorola, the world's No. 2 cellphone maker, blamed a sharp economic slowdown rather than competition, and cut its estimate for industrywide handset sales to below 500 million in 2001, down from a prior estimate of 525 million to 575 million. 

 "It's a pretty grim statement they have made, that's for sure," said Jamie Sandison, European portfolio manager at Edinburgh Fund Managers. 

 The warning put pressure on cellphone global leader, Finnish Nokia , which ended off seven percent. Europe's largest tech company fell 20 percent for the week. 

 "We have been bearish on telecom equipment for nine months and recently we felt we were getting close to a floor, but now we have to rethink earnings numbers for this year and will be asking ourselves are we being bearish enough," Sandison said. 

 Motorola's news puts a question mark over Nokia's current earnings forecasts, Sandison added. 

 MOTOROLA RIPPLES 

 Telecom equipment shares dominated the decliners' column, with France's Alcatel , Nokia, Britain's Marconi and Germany's Siemens all dropping between six and eight percent. 

 Goldman Sachs downgraded Nokia, Alcatel and Marconi, citing poor short-term market visibility. 

 Investors are set to face more uncertainty in coming sessions, fund managers said. 

 "One needs courage to move into telecoms equipment makers because of the recent heavy losses but some stock prices are certainly interesting. Whether this is the last strike to the sector is just very difficult to say," said Torsten Gruendel, technology portfolio manager at Adig in Frankfurt: 

 The DJ Stoxx European technology index tumbled six percent to its lowest level since mid-October 1999 as the sector feels the full blast of a slowdown in the United States which has sent the tech-rich Nasdaq Composite to two-year lows this week. 

 A profit warning from U.S. networking computer firm Sun Microsystems late on Thursday added to the gloom. 

 Europe's telecoms were also slammed, the sector down 2.5 percent to its lowest since December 1998. 

 But France's construction and telecoms group Bouygues rose three percent due to uncertainty over the third-generation mobile phone licences it opted not to bid for, and because it has lower debts than most in the sector. 

 Deutsche Telekom fell 2.8 percent despite news it had agreed to sell majority stakes in six regional cable TV companies to raise about five billion euros ($4.54 billion) to help cut its debts. 

 The stakes were being sold to U.S. media investment vehicle Liberty Media which controls Europe's largest cable operator United Pan-Europe Communications , whose shares jumped more than seven percent. 

 SELECT DEFENSIVES GAIN 

 Food and beverage companies were again the winners from the tech and telecom selloff, with Britain's Diageo , the world's top drinks group, up three percent a day after posting results. 

 Nestle of Switzerland, the world's No. 1 food group, gained 1.3 percent, boosted by 2000 net profit up 22 percent to a record 5.76 billion Swiss francs ($3.41 billion), and forecast even better sales and profits this year. 

 But other erstwhile defensive favourites like healthcare fell sharply. 

 "We were very defensive last year, and we are still on the the defensive side," said Edinburgh Fund Managers' Sandison. 

 The fund remains overweight in utilities, retail banks, and to a lesser extent in healthcare, but is underweight in techs. 

 Shares in DaimlerChrysler sank 3.8 percent. The German-U.S. auto company's supervisory board late on Friday approved an overhaul plan aimed at returning its ailing U.S. Chrysler unit to profit. The company will reveal details of the plan at a news conference on Monday. 

 In the banking sector, Britain's Lloyds TSB faced a setback in its pursuit of rival Abbey National when the government referred its unsolicited $24.6 billion bid to the Competition Commission. Lloyds shares fell two percent, and Abbey dropped three percent. 

 The Euro Stoxx 50 index ended off 2.5 percent at 4,236.82, its weakest since November 1999. 

 As most European bourses shut at 1630 GMT, the Nasdaq Composite was off 2.25 percent at 2,194 points, with the Dow Jones industrial average shedding 1.13 percent to 10,407 points. 

 The German DAX fell 3.2 percent to 6,075.34 points, its losses gathering pace in evening trade as the slide in the Nasdaq and the Dow quickened. 

 (Additional reporting by Marijn van der Pas in Frankfurt). 


    For next week's key corporate events ...		



 FTSE Eurotop 300 index...............



 DJ STOXX index........



 Top 10 STOXX sectors............



 Top 10 EUROSTOXX sectors.......



 Top 10 Eurotop 300 sectors......



 Top 25 European pct gainers........



 Top 25 European pct losers.........



    Main stock markets:



 Dow Jones...............	  Wall Street report .....
 Nikkei 225.............	   Tokyo report............
 FTSE 100...............	   London report...........
 Xetra DAX.............	    Frankfurt report........
 CAC-40..	   Paris report............



 World Indices........



 Reuters survey of world bourse outlook..........



 Western European IPO diary...........



 European Asset Allocation..........



    Reuters News at a Glance:



 Equities.....		 World stock markets....		



     Main currency report:



 Dollar/euro/yen...........


Document lba0000020010713dx2n0561m




 CORRECTED-UPDATE 3-Motorola sees Q1 shortfall, perhaps loss. 

863 words
23 February 2001
17:54
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

     In Chicago item headlined "UPDATE 3-Motorola sees first 

  quarter shortfall, perhaps loss," please read in last paragraph 

  "... and Corning Inc..." instead of "... and Ciena Corp. ..." 

 (corrects company). 

 A corrected version follows: 

 (Adds company comments, updates stock activity, adds bylines, changes dateline from NEW YORK) 

 By Ben Klayman 

 CHICAGO, Feb 23 (Reuters) - Wireless communications giant Motorola Inc. on Friday became the latest technology bellwether to signal the severity of the economy's slowdown, saying it could report its first quarterly operating loss in 15 years due to a dramatic drop in its business. 

 "As far as we are concerned, we are in a recession at this point, and it's a recession of confidence," President and Chief Operating Officer Robert Growney told analysts on a conference call. 

 "We need some confidence measures to bring this market back," he added, "but the recessive part of everyone's thinking right now is bleeding over very, very quickly into Europe and also into Asia Pacific." 

 In an effort to cut costs, Motorola, the world's No. 2 wireless handset maker behind Finland's Nokia Corp., will soon announce the sale or closure of four plants and is weighing doing the same with three other facilities, Growney said. He didn't identify the plants or when the decisions would be made. 

 The Schaumburg, Ill., company had already warned last month that its first-quarter results would suffer from a slowdown in its personal communications, or handset, and semiconductor businesses. 

 At that time, it projected first-quarter sales of $8.8 billion would be flat with a year earlier, while profits would drop to 12 cents per share from 20 cents. 

 Now, however, it said it won't meet that lowered guidance, and if the slowdown persists, it expects to report an operating loss for the quarter. 

 The last time Motorola recorded an operating loss was the third quarter of 1985, a company spokesman said. It posted a net loss in second quarter 1998, but that included a $2 billion charge. 

 After the latest warning, Motorola shares were down 76 cents, or 4.4 percent, at $16.53 in New York Stock Exchange trade on Friday morning. In premarket trading, however, the stock had slid as far as $15.75 - its lowest price since October 1998. 

 The stock - down more than 73 percent from its all-time high of $61.54 last March - has underperformed the Standard & Poor's 500 index .SPX) by about 65 percent in the past year. 

 Motorola's news also hit rivals Nokia and Sweden's Ericsson, the No. 3 player in the wireless handset business. Their shares fell to new year lows. 

 COMPETITORS SQUEEZING, BUT COMPANY SAYS NOT LOSING SHARE 

 Motorola has been facing intensifying competition in its handset business from Nokia and Ericsson. 

 But Motorola executives insisted on the conference call following its profit warning that the shortfall resulted from the sharp economic slowdown in the United States and inventory corrections taking place broadly in technology markets worldwide - not lost market share. 

 "We believe that this weakness is the result of current industry-wide conditions and not a loss in market share," Growney said in discussing the company's handset business. 

 Many European carriers, he added, are cutting spending to strengthen their balance sheets, including scaling back cell-phone subsidies that result in higher retail prices and lower consumer demand. He said Motorola sees global cell-phone sales possibly falling below 500 million this year, off from previous estimates of 525 million to 575 million. 

 In the semiconductor segment, Growney said, Motorola expects industry global business to be flat or down from last year, and the company's unit won't be profitable in the first quarter and possibly not for the year. 

 Even in businesses where Motorola sees growth for the year, Growney warned of softening demand in pockets or regions in reaction to fears of a U.S. economic slowdown. 

 Motorola said it will continue to actively adjust its cost structure in response to this environment and take additional cost reduction steps in the future. 

 Growney said Motorola will hold capital spending this year to significantly less than the $2.5 billion it had previously projected. Last year its capital outlays totaled $4 billion. 

 "We have fairly extreme volatility right now," Growney said. "When you look at the charts, some of the businesses are kind of in free-fall, when you look at rates of change." 

 MOTOROLA NOT ALONE, HIGH-TECH COS FEEL BROAD PROFIT CRUNCH 

 Motorola's warning follows a spate of profit and sales warnings from major technology companies in recent days. 

 On Thursday, network computer maker Sun Microsystems Inc. and data storage powerhouse EMC Corp. cut sales and profit targets, citing the slowdown in capital spending by large corporations. 

 And last week, telecommunications equipment maker Nortel Networks Corp., the world's biggest supplier of fiber-optic telecom gear, said it will post a first-quarter loss and lowered its revenue growth expectations for the year. 

 Other high-tech powerhouses like Cisco Systems Inc., JDS Uniphase Corp. and Corning Inc. have recently ratcheted down expectations with slowdown warnings. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2n055ap




 Sun Says Profit May Be Half Of Forecasts 

 By David P. Hamilton 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
645 words
23 February 2001
The Wall Street Journal
J
A3
English
 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Sun Microsystems Inc. became the latest casualty of a slowing U.S. economy, warning that profit in the current quarter could be as little as half what Wall Street expected thanks to a sharp falloff in U.S. information-technology spending. 

 Michael Lehman, Sun's chief financial officer, said that the Palo Alto, Calif., computer maker now expects earnings from operations of between seven cents and nine cents a diluted share for its fiscal third quarter ending in March. Analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial had expected Sun to post earnings of 15 cents a share for that period. 

 In addition, Mr. Lehman said revenue in the quarter will rise only 10% to 13% compared with the year-earlier period. Last month, Mr. Lehman offered a sales projection that suggested Sun's revenue for the first half of the year would grow an average of roughly 18%. 

 Shares of Sun have fallen significantly in just the past week as investors began to fear a cooling of the computer maker's white-hot growth. In that period, Sun's stock price dropped 28% to $19.63 on Wednesday before rebounding $1.19 to $20.81 as of 4 p.m. yesterday on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Following Sun's profit warning, its shares slumped again to $18.88 in after-hours trading. 

 Sun officials placed the blame squarely on the U.S. economic slowdown, which they said resulted in an unprecedented reduction in orders for Sun's big computer servers, which power corporate networks and many Internet operations. So far, they said, sales in Europe, Asia and other regions remain on target. 

 "We are disappointed in one and only one thing, and that is the performance of the U.S. economy," said Ed Zander, Sun's president, during a midquarter conference call yesterday afternoon. "There is a lot of economic uncertainty and gloom and doom." 

 The profit warning is a significant comedown for highflying Sun, which for most of the last two years has sped ahead of its competition in the race to supply Internet infrastructure to dot-coms and traditional companies alike. Where personal-computer stalwarts such as Dell Computer Corp. and Intel Corp. stumbled as PC demand slackened, Sun was bolstered by seemingly bottomless demand for servers and related Internet infrastructure. 

 Thanks to blazing revenue growth, which not long ago rose as high as 60%, Sun invested aggressively in both production infrastructure and research and development. Now that growth is slowing, however, Sun faces the prospect of underutilized production capacity, which hurts profits. 

 Mr. Lehman said that Sun sees no reason to cut back on such capacity at this point, and added that the company will still boost R&D spending by 20% in the current quarter. Sun, however, does plan more stringent cost controls, and will slow its hiring of R&D and sales personnel from between 1,500 and 2,000 positions in the current quarter to less than 500 people in the June quarter. 

 Some analysts, however, worry that Sun's problems could run more deeply. Toni Sacconaghi, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said he was concerned about a steep fall in Sun's expected gross margins, a measure of profit after the cost of making products. That decline leads him to wonder if Sun is having trouble ramping up output of new products or facing even more-severe price competition than it has so far let on. 

 "It begs the question as to what is really going on," Mr. Sacconaghi said. Other analysts and computer-industry executives suggest that Sun also faces competitive pressure from a robust market for second-hand servers, many of them sold off as a result of the dot-com crash. 

Document j000000020010711dx2n004wh




 Qualcomm: Delay In Europe Will Be For WCDMA, Not All 3G 

 By Christine Nuzum 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
654 words
23 February 2001
18:27
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Europe is not delaying the rollout of all third-generation wireless technologies, a spokeswoman for Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) said Friday. 

 Speaking in an interview with the Financial Times Thursday, Qualcomm founder and Chief Executive Irwin Jacobs said that Europe will delay implementing wideband code division multiple access, or WCDMA, standard technology. He said that not all third-generation, or 3G, wireless technology would be affected. The 3G technology will provide enhanced Internet data services over wireless phones. 

 Qualcomm spokeswoman Christine Trimble told Dow Jones Newswires that the idea that all 3G technology will be delayed in Europe is a misperception. 

 "Operators in Europe have an opportunity to look at CDMA 2000" as a platform for third-generation technology, Trimble said. CDMA 2000 has already been deployed for third-generation technology in South Korea, and is expected to be launched in other Asian countries and in North America later this year. 

 Analyst Mark Roberts of First Union Securities Inc. said confusion about the report was furthering the decline in Qualcomm's stock Friday. 

 "I believe that Irwin Jacobs' comments were taken out of context about the delay of WCDMA in Europe," he said. "People think it hurts Qualcomm." 

 Many people think Qualcomm will face less competition for CDMA 2000 chipsets than for WCDMA chipsets. In addition to selling chipsets, Qualcomm would collect royalties from its patents on both WCDMA and CDMA 2000 technologies. 

 Separately, the South Korean government said Friday that it will delay choosing a service provider for CDMA 2000 spectrum. 

 The service provider for spectrum that is already in use for CDMA 2000 is SK Telecom. That delay won't affect Qualcomm, Roberts said. 

 Shares of Qualcomm recently were down $10.81, or 16.2%, to $56.13 on volume of 56.7 million compared with average daily volume of 16.1 million. 

 "Confusion has created an excellent buying opportunity," wrote Morgan Stanley analyst Louis Gerhardy, who raised his rating on Qualcomm to strong buy from outperform Friday. "News reports reminding investors of WCDMA delays have triggered a significant overreaction in Qualcomm. WCDMA was a minor part of our estimates." 

 While upgrading the stock, Gerhardy slightly cut his earnings estimates. He shaved one cent a share off his 2001 estimate to $1.25 a share, and lowered his earnings-per-share estimate for 2002 to $1.65 from $1.75. 

 Gerhardy pointed to CDMA 2000 as a proven alternative to WCDMA. 

 Qualcomm recently issued a press release saying demand for CDMA chips this quarter is consistent with earlier forecasts. 

 However, some analysts thought delays in Europe provide ample reason to sell Qualcomm stock Friday. Matt Hoffman of Wit SoundView thinks European carriers are unlikely to deploy CDMA 2000 technology instead of WCDMA. Qualcomm Chief Executive Jacobs dug himself into a hole in the interview with the Financial Times, Hoffman said. 

 "Maybe Mr. Jacobs didn't really know how much of the stock price is tied to the success of WCDMA," he said. "WCDMA matters to this company like other flavors of CDMA and by bashing one, he ended up hurting his own stock price." 

 Brian Modoff, Deutsche Banc Alex.Brown anlayst, downgraded Qualcomm, along with a host of other wireless equipment stocks, citing evidence of lower spending by carriers. 

 Motorola Inc.'s (MOT) Friday morning profit warning revived concerns about inventory buildups of wireless equipment, said Hoffman of First Union. 

 The effect on Qualcomm of a delay in choosing a carrier for additional 3G spectrum in South Korea was another subject of debate. Hoffman had said it would have no effect, but Peter Marshall, an analyst with telecommunications research and consulting firm The Yankee Group, said that a delay in the selection of a carrier could hurt Qualcomm's business in South Korea. 

 -Christine Nuzum; Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5172 

Document dj00000020010711dx2n02nbl




 MARKET TALK: Big-Time Drops In Big-Time Names 

1,812 words
23 February 2001
17:43
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



12:43 (Dow Jones) Big name software stocks are crumbling Friday as
investors worry about their financial outlooks and lofty valuations. The
Goldman Sachs software index is off 5.5% on double-digit percentage
drops in Oracle (ORCL), Siebel Systems (SEBL), I2 Technologies (ITWO),
Veritas (VRTS) and PeopleSoft (PSFT). The only big-cap software stock
bucking the trend: Microsoft (MSFT) which is fractionally higher ahead
of its big trial date. (MLP)



12:37 (Dow Jones) EUR/USD is testing its intraday high at $0.9110 as
the Nasdaq and DJIA sink. Revived rumor of Greek Central Bank selling
euros is floating, but EUR seems to be tracking U.S. equities. USD/JPY
at Y116.14. (JEN)



12:35 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps hit limit down, 32 points lower, falling
to 1225.50 at 12:30 p.m. EST. The market flirted with this level for a
while but finally fell to lock limit. A 10-minute trading curbs is in
effect. If the market remains at limit down a 2-minute trading halt will
occur. (DMC)



12:34 (Dow Jones) Nymex crude and products futures move out of
negative territory, staging technical recovery from earlier losses.
Shortcovering cited. Volume light, exaggerating price moves. April crude
up 36 cents at $29.19, facing resistence at $29.59; March heating oil up
0.98c at 74.60c; resistance pegged at 75.10c. March gasoline up 1.61c at
84.10c. (BWH)



12:30 (Dow Jones) Trading in Microsoft Corp.'s (MSFT) options were
cautiously bullish Friday morning and the stock was up, even as other
tech names lost ground. With the stock ahead 56 cents at $55.75, the
at-the-money March 55 calls traded actively, with some investors buying
these. Also, more than 5,000 contracts of the in-the-money April 60 puts
traded, with investors selling these. Trading floor speculation that the
software giant might settle its antitrust suit helps, although skeptical
market observers say the persistent rumor has made the rounds before.
(KXT)



12:25 (Dow Jones) Dollar slipping against euro and yen as DJIA and
Nasdaq slide again. The euro is at $0.9120 and the dollar buys Y116.10.
(JRH)



12:23 (Dow Jones) Computer screens showing tech stocks bled red Friday
morning, but a few bullish trades showed up here and there. At least one
investor opened a new position in 3Com Corp.'s (COMS) July 7.50 puts,
selling a large number of these out-of-the-money puts. This is a
cautiously bullish trade - likely not expecting the network systems
provider to fall below $7.50 by mid-July so the puts will expire
unexercised. 3Com stock most recently was up 22 cents to $9.06. The July
7.50 puts were at 75 cents on Pacific Exchange volume of 20,000
contracts, compared with open interest of 843. (KXT)



12:18 (Dow Jones) Stock activity getting nastier, with major indexes
at lows for session. IBM leading DJIA lower, off 7%. Few places to
escape. Tsys rallying. DJIA off 192 at 10334, Nasdaq down 75 to 2169,
and S&P falls 29 to 1224. (TG)



12:09 (Dow Jones) Motorola's (MOT) warning is also weighing on
semiconductor stocks, sparking fears that handset sales might not see as
immediate a recovery as some expected. Adding to that fear is word that
Texas Instruments (TXN) is cutting back production in five factories.
The Philadelphia Semiconductor Index fell as much as 5% in intraday,
with both chip stocks and chip equipment stocks down. (KWH)



12:02 (Dow Jones) The number of bankruptcy petitions filed in calendar
year 2000 fell 5% from filings in calendar year 1999, according to data
released by the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts. (JC)



11:53 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps are down, near session lows. Traders say
to keep an eye on the session low of 1233. "It's right near yesterday's
low of 1230. If we can hold it, we'll probably bounce in the afternoon.
If not, expect further selling," floor trader says. Ultimately, though,
he sees March S&Ps going to the 1170 area. (DMC)



11:39 (Dow Jones) It's Martha Stewart vs. the world, as the celebrity
domesticator tries to take her company, Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia
Inc. (MSO), global. Stewart is already in Brazil, Japan and Canada, and
has her eye on other regions. The results, if they work out, could be as
sweet as her recipe for Luscious Chocolate Cake with Whipped Ganache,
but the expansion challenge will be a heady one, according to
consultants. (BS)



11:30 (Dow Jones) A triple whammy for the wireless sector. Motorola's
(MOT) profit warning, Qualcomm's (QCOM) delays in rolling out 3G
wireless services in Europe, and Deutsche Banc downgrades sent the
sector into a tailspin. Qualcomm, down 20%, led the decline. Other big
losers were Motorola, down 5%, Ericsson (ERICY), down 4%, and Nokia
(NOK), down 7%. (ELM)



11:26 (Dow Jones) Is decimalization a drag on the Dow? That's how some
traders feel, saying the change from fractions to decimals on the New
York Stock Exchange is making stocks less appealing. The switch, meant
to narrow spreads, may be doing just the opposite in some cases, said
Charles Johnson, head of equity trading at Blaylock & Partners. "You see
a stock at 31 and the next quote is much wider, say 31.20. A lot of
people can't quite understand what's going on and aren't doing any
buying while they try to figure it out." (KJT)



11:17 (Dow Jones) Following WSJ report that Northrop (NOC) sued
Lockheed (LMT) for an alleged contract breach, some sober thoughts on
the defense sector: The consensus view on the sector is too simplistic
and "investors could be negatively surprised" when a more complex
picture emerges on defense spending, warned Merrill Lynch analyst Byron
Callan. Amid the Bush administration's spending review, the analyst
hinted programs such as military aircraft modernization and ballistic
missile defense are at risk. "Expect political food fights over changes"
in spending, he wrote. Shares of Lockheed, Northrop and Raytheon (RTNA)
are all down more than 1%. (SON)



11:13 (Dow Jones) S&P says that since the beginning of the year only
10 cents of investment grade corporate bonds have been upgraded for
every $1 in debt downgraded. This is a big change from 2000 when markets
saw 70 cents of debt upgraded for every $1 in debt downgraded. (CSE)



11:02 (Dow Jones) Another disappointment in techland. Shares of once
high-flying business-to-business outfit VerticalNet (VERT) are off 15%
after the company's 4Q failed to please Wall Street. The cash loss was
$28.5M, or 32 cents a share. Although the First Call/Thomson Financial
consensus for 19c a share had not been updated to include VerticalNet's
divestiture of its NECX unit, analysts said the company's loss was still
wider than they expected. Revenue of $40.7M also disappointed. Stock
recently at $3.00. Last March it was above $148. (RS)



10:54 (Dow Jones) Merrill decides to "pro-actively" reduce estimates
on JDS (JDSU). Cites Nortel (NT) news and other indications of
weaker-than-expected end-market for optical systems in next few
quarters. March quarter rev view goes to $950M from $1B and EPS to 16c
from 17c. FY01 rev falls to $3.75B from $3.9B, EPS to 70c from 72c.
Keeps near-term accumulate, long-term buy and sees significant growth
returning when sector recovers, which Merrill expects in 2002. (TG)



10:47 (Dow Jones) The dollar is off its earlier lows although the DJIA
and Nasdaq are in solidly negative territory. The euro's quick rally to
over $0.9100 was seen as a technical bounce and this has run out of
steam. The euro is now lower at $0.9075 and USD/JPY is at Y116.28. (JRH)



10:44 (Dow Jones) Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown analyst Glenn Schorr
lowered earnings estimates on three large online brokerage firms, citing
"the continued weak retail trading environment." Trading slowed sharply
in February after an "okay" start in January, and Schorr doesn't hold
out much hope for a rebound in March. Schorr lowered his 1Q EPS view on
Charles Schwab Corp. (SCH) to 13c from 15c and his 2001 view to 59c from
62c. 1Q estimate on E*Trade Group (ET) goes to 3c from 4c, and 2001
estimate to 24c from 28c. Schorr left his estimate on Ameritrade Holding
(AMTD) 2Q unchanged at a 5-cent loss, but lowered his target for
Ameritrade's fiscal 2001 per-share loss to 10 cents from 9 cents. All
three stocks are down slightly. (GFC)



10:34 (Dow Jones) Another Wall Street push for publishers of
educational materials. Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown analyst Peter Appert
sees the new Bush education program - two elements of which are testing
and increased funding - as a boon for companies like Harcourt (H),
McGraw Hill Cos. (MHP), and Houghton Mifflin (HTN); providers of
remediation and teacher training services like Sylvan Learning (SLVN),
Scholastic (SCHL) and Lightspan (LSPN); and, possibly, private school
operators like Edison Schools Inc. (EDSN) and Nobel Learning (NLCI).
(BS)



10:30 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq falls to its 65-point limit down level
of 1986.50 at 10:23 a.m. ET. A 10-minute trading curb is in effect. If
the market remains at limit down, a 2-minute trading halt will occur.
March Nasdaq's move to limit down is accompanied by new session lows in
March S&Ps and DJIA. (DMC)



10:22 (Dow Jones) The currency crisis in Turkey will have minimal
impact on global financial services giant Citigroup (C) - and possibly a
positive one, said analyst Catherine Murray of J.P. Morgan Securities.
She said Turkey probably represents less than 1% of its core income and
it's not primarily lending-based. "Citi is an experienced player in the
emerging markets, including in Turkey, and is adept at risk management
in volatile markets," she added, noting that she continues to believe
Citi, rated buy, is a defensive play in the current market environment.
(TAS)



10:11 (Dow Jones) Although the Naz Composite on Thursday recorded a
new low for the year-old bear market, technical momentum readings ticked
up by the end of the day. Moreover, the bear market low of 2185.91 was
virtually important weekly support at 2182.10. This means technical
bounce. If the index, now around 2211, can close above 2300, it means
upside correction. (SC)



12:43 PM


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx2n02n71




 MARKET TALK: Microsoft Higher Despite Tech Sell-Off 

1,567 words
23 February 2001
17:31
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



12:30 (Dow Jones) Trading in Microsoft Corp.'s (MSFT) options were
cautiously bullish Friday morning and the stock was up, even as other
tech names lost ground. With the stock ahead 56 cents at $55.75, the
at-the-money March 55 calls traded actively, with some investors buying
these. Also, more than 5,000 contracts of the in-the-money April 60 puts
traded, with investors selling these. Trading floor speculation that the
software giant might settle its antitrust suit helps, although skeptical
market observers say the persistent rumor has made the rounds before.
(KXT)



12:25 (Dow Jones) Dollar slipping against euro and yen as DJIA and
Nasdaq slide again. The euro is at $0.9120 and the dollar buys Y116.10.
(JRH)



12:23 (Dow Jones) Computer screens showing tech stocks bled red Friday
morning, but a few bullish trades showed up here and there. At least one
investor opened a new position in 3Com Corp.'s (COMS) July 7.50 puts,
selling a large number of these out-of-the-money puts. This is a
cautiously bullish trade - likely not expecting the network systems
provider to fall below $7.50 by mid-July so the puts will expire
unexercised. 3Com stock most recently was up 22 cents to $9.06. The July
7.50 puts were at 75 cents on Pacific Exchange volume of 20,000
contracts, compared with open interest of 843. (KXT)



12:18 (Dow Jones) Stock activity getting nastier, with major indexes
at lows for session. IBM leading DJIA lower, off 7%. Few places to
escape. Tsys rallying. DJIA off 192 at 10334, Nasdaq down 75 to 2169,
and S&P falls 29 to 1224. (TG)



12:09 (Dow Jones) Motorola's (MOT) warning is also weighing on
semiconductor stocks, sparking fears that handset sales might not see as
immediate a recovery as some expected. Adding to that fear is word that
Texas Instruments (TXN) is cutting back production in five factories.
The Philadelphia Semiconductor Index fell as much as 5% in intraday,
with both chip stocks and chip equipment stocks down. (KWH)



12:02 (Dow Jones) The number of bankruptcy petitions filed in calendar
year 2000 fell 5% from filings in calendar year 1999, according to data
released by the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts. (JC)



11:53 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps are down, near session lows. Traders say
to keep an eye on the session low of 1233. "It's right near yesterday's
low of 1230. If we can hold it, we'll probably bounce in the afternoon.
If not, expect further selling," floor trader says. Ultimately, though,
he sees March S&Ps going to the 1170 area. (DMC)



11:39 (Dow Jones) It's Martha Stewart vs. the world, as the celebrity
domesticator tries to take her company, Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia
Inc. (MSO), global. Stewart is already in Brazil, Japan and Canada, and
has her eye on other regions. The results, if they work out, could be as
sweet as her recipe for Luscious Chocolate Cake with Whipped Ganache,
but the expansion challenge will be a heady one, according to
consultants. (BS)



11:30 (Dow Jones) A triple whammy for the wireless sector. Motorola's
(MOT) profit warning, Qualcomm's (QCOM) delays in rolling out 3G
wireless services in Europe, and Deutsche Banc downgrades sent the
sector into a tailspin. Qualcomm, down 20%, led the decline. Other big
losers were Motorola, down 5%, Ericsson (ERICY), down 4%, and Nokia
(NOK), down 7%. (ELM)



11:26 (Dow Jones) Is decimalization a drag on the Dow? That's how some
traders feel, saying the change from fractions to decimals on the New
York Stock Exchange is making stocks less appealing. The switch, meant
to narrow spreads, may be doing just the opposite in some cases, said
Charles Johnson, head of equity trading at Blaylock & Partners. "You see
a stock at 31 and the next quote is much wider, say 31.20. A lot of
people can't quite understand what's going on and aren't doing any
buying while they try to figure it out." (KJT)



11:17 (Dow Jones) Following WSJ report that Northrop (NOC) sued
Lockheed (LMT) for an alleged contract breach, some sober thoughts on
the defense sector: The consensus view on the sector is too simplistic
and "investors could be negatively surprised" when a more complex
picture emerges on defense spending, warned Merrill Lynch analyst Byron
Callan. Amid the Bush administration's spending review, the analyst
hinted programs such as military aircraft modernization and ballistic
missile defense are at risk. "Expect political food fights over changes"
in spending, he wrote. Shares of Lockheed, Northrop and Raytheon (RTNA)
are all down more than 1%. (SON)



11:13 (Dow Jones) S&P says that since the beginning of the year only
10 cents of investment grade corporate bonds have been upgraded for
every $1 in debt downgraded. This is a big change from 2000 when markets
saw 70 cents of debt upgraded for every $1 in debt downgraded. (CSE)



11:02 (Dow Jones) Another disappointment in techland. Shares of once
high-flying business-to-business outfit VerticalNet (VERT) are off 15%
after the company's 4Q failed to please Wall Street. The cash loss was
$28.5M, or 32 cents a share. Although the First Call/Thomson Financial
consensus for 19c a share had not been updated to include VerticalNet's
divestiture of its NECX unit, analysts said the company's loss was still
wider than they expected. Revenue of $40.7M also disappointed. Stock
recently at $3.00. Last March it was above $148. (RS)



10:54 (Dow Jones) Merrill decides to "pro-actively" reduce estimates
on JDS (JDSU). Cites Nortel (NT) news and other indications of
weaker-than-expected end-market for optical systems in next few
quarters. March quarter rev view goes to $950M from $1B and EPS to 16c
from 17c. FY01 rev falls to $3.75B from $3.9B, EPS to 70c from 72c.
Keeps near-term accumulate, long-term buy and sees significant growth
returning when sector recovers, which Merrill expects in 2002. (TG)



10:47 (Dow Jones) The dollar is off its earlier lows although the DJIA
and Nasdaq are in solidly negative territory. The euro's quick rally to
over $0.9100 was seen as a technical bounce and this has run out of
steam. The euro is now lower at $0.9075 and USD/JPY is at Y116.28. (JRH)



10:44 (Dow Jones) Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown analyst Glenn Schorr
lowered earnings estimates on three large online brokerage firms, citing
"the continued weak retail trading environment." Trading slowed sharply
in February after an "okay" start in January, and Schorr doesn't hold
out much hope for a rebound in March. Schorr lowered his 1Q EPS view on
Charles Schwab Corp. (SCH) to 13c from 15c and his 2001 view to 59c from
62c. 1Q estimate on E*Trade Group (ET) goes to 3c from 4c, and 2001
estimate to 24c from 28c. Schorr left his estimate on Ameritrade Holding
(AMTD) 2Q unchanged at a 5-cent loss, but lowered his target for
Ameritrade's fiscal 2001 per-share loss to 10 cents from 9 cents. All
three stocks are down slightly. (GFC)



10:34 (Dow Jones) Another Wall Street push for publishers of
educational materials. Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown analyst Peter Appert
sees the new Bush education program - two elements of which are testing
and increased funding - as a boon for companies like Harcourt (H),
McGraw Hill Cos. (MHP), and Houghton Mifflin (HTN); providers of
remediation and teacher training services like Sylvan Learning (SLVN),
Scholastic (SCHL) and Lightspan (LSPN); and, possibly, private school
operators like Edison Schools Inc. (EDSN) and Nobel Learning (NLCI).
(BS)



10:30 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq falls to its 65-point limit down level
of 1986.50 at 10:23 a.m. ET. A 10-minute trading curb is in effect. If
the market remains at limit down, a 2-minute trading halt will occur.
March Nasdaq's move to limit down is accompanied by new session lows in
March S&Ps and DJIA. (DMC)



10:22 (Dow Jones) The currency crisis in Turkey will have minimal
impact on global financial services giant Citigroup (C) - and possibly a
positive one, said analyst Catherine Murray of J.P. Morgan Securities.
She said Turkey probably represents less than 1% of its core income and
it's not primarily lending-based. "Citi is an experienced player in the
emerging markets, including in Turkey, and is adept at risk management
in volatile markets," she added, noting that she continues to believe
Citi, rated buy, is a defensive play in the current market environment.
(TAS)



10:11 (Dow Jones) Although the Naz Composite on Thursday recorded a
new low for the year-old bear market, technical momentum readings ticked
up by the end of the day. Moreover, the bear market low of 2185.91 was
virtually important weekly support at 2182.10. This means technical
bounce. If the index, now around 2211, can close above 2300, it means
upside correction. (SC)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx2n02n5r




 MARKET TALK: Semis Don't Escape Friday Selloff 

1,282 words
23 February 2001
17:09
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Edited by Thomas Granahan
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
   (Call Us: 201 938-5299; All Times Eastern)



   MARKET TALK can be found using code N/DJMT



12:09 (Dow Jones) Motorola's (MOT) warning is also weighing on
semiconductor stocks, sparking fears that handset sales might not see as
immediate a recovery as some expected. Adding to that fear is word that
Texas Instruments (TXN) is cutting back production in five factories.
The Philadelphia Semiconductor Index fell as much as 5% in intraday,
with both chip stocks and chip equipment stocks down. (KWH)



12:02 (Dow Jones) The number of bankruptcy petitions filed in calendar
year 2000 fell 5% from filings in calendar year 1999, according to data
released by the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts. (JC)



11:53 (Dow Jones) March S&Ps are down, near session lows. Traders say
to keep an eye on the session low of 1233. "It's right near yesterday's
low of 1230. If we can hold it, we'll probably bounce in the afternoon.
If not, expect further selling," floor trader says. Ultimately, though,
he sees March S&Ps going to the 1170 area. (DMC)



11:39 (Dow Jones) It's Martha Stewart vs. the world, as the celebrity
domesticator tries to take her company, Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia
Inc. (MSO), global. Stewart is already in Brazil, Japan and Canada, and
has her eye on other regions. The results, if they work out, could be as
sweet as her recipe for Luscious Chocolate Cake with Whipped Ganache,
but the expansion challenge will be a heady one, according to
consultants. (BS)



11:30 (Dow Jones) A triple whammy for the wireless sector. Motorola's
(MOT) profit warning, Qualcomm's (QCOM) delays in rolling out 3G
wireless services in Europe, and Deutsche Banc downgrades sent the
sector into a tailspin. Qualcomm, down 20%, led the decline. Other big
losers were Motorola, down 5%, Ericsson (ERICY), down 4%, and Nokia
(NOK), down 7%. (ELM)



11:26 (Dow Jones) Is decimalization a drag on the Dow? That's how some
traders feel, saying the change from fractions to decimals on the New
York Stock Exchange is making stocks less appealing. The switch, meant
to narrow spreads, may be doing just the opposite in some cases, said
Charles Johnson, head of equity trading at Blaylock & Partners. "You see
a stock at 31 and the next quote is much wider, say 31.20. A lot of
people can't quite understand what's going on and aren't doing any
buying while they try to figure it out." (KJT)



11:17 (Dow Jones) Following WSJ report that Northrop (NOC) sued
Lockheed (LMT) for an alleged contract breach, some sober thoughts on
the defense sector: The consensus view on the sector is too simplistic
and "investors could be negatively surprised" when a more complex
picture emerges on defense spending, warned Merrill Lynch analyst Byron
Callan. Amid the Bush administration's spending review, the analyst
hinted programs such as military aircraft modernization and ballistic
missile defense are at risk. "Expect political food fights over changes"
in spending, he wrote. Shares of Lockheed, Northrop and Raytheon (RTNA)
are all down more than 1%. (SON)



11:13 (Dow Jones) S&P says that since the beginning of the year only
10 cents of investment grade corporate bonds have been upgraded for
every $1 in debt downgraded. This is a big change from 2000 when markets
saw 70 cents of debt upgraded for every $1 in debt downgraded. (CSE)



11:02 (Dow Jones) Another disappointment in techland. Shares of once
high-flying business-to-business outfit VerticalNet (VERT) are off 15%
after the company's 4Q failed to please Wall Street. The cash loss was
$28.5M, or 32 cents a share. Although the First Call/Thomson Financial
consensus for 19c a share had not been updated to include VerticalNet's
divestiture of its NECX unit, analysts said the company's loss was still
wider than they expected. Revenue of $40.7M also disappointed. Stock
recently at $3.00. Last March it was above $148. (RS)



10:54 (Dow Jones) Merrill decides to "pro-actively" reduce estimates
on JDS (JDSU). Cites Nortel (NT) news and other indications of
weaker-than-expected end-market for optical systems in next few
quarters. March quarter rev view goes to $950M from $1B and EPS to 16c
from 17c. FY01 rev falls to $3.75B from $3.9B, EPS to 70c from 72c.
Keeps near-term accumulate, long-term buy and sees significant growth
returning when sector recovers, which Merrill expects in 2002. (TG)



10:47 (Dow Jones) The dollar is off its earlier lows although the DJIA
and Nasdaq are in solidly negative territory. The euro's quick rally to
over $0.9100 was seen as a technical bounce and this has run out of
steam. The euro is now lower at $0.9075 and USD/JPY is at Y116.28. (JRH)



10:44 (Dow Jones) Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown analyst Glenn Schorr
lowered earnings estimates on three large online brokerage firms, citing
"the continued weak retail trading environment." Trading slowed sharply
in February after an "okay" start in January, and Schorr doesn't hold
out much hope for a rebound in March. Schorr lowered his 1Q EPS view on
Charles Schwab Corp. (SCH) to 13c from 15c and his 2001 view to 59c from
62c. 1Q estimate on E*Trade Group (ET) goes to 3c from 4c, and 2001
estimate to 24c from 28c. Schorr left his estimate on Ameritrade Holding
(AMTD) 2Q unchanged at a 5-cent loss, but lowered his target for
Ameritrade's fiscal 2001 per-share loss to 10 cents from 9 cents. All
three stocks are down slightly. (GFC)



10:34 (Dow Jones) Another Wall Street push for publishers of
educational materials. Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown analyst Peter Appert
sees the new Bush education program - two elements of which are testing
and increased funding - as a boon for companies like Harcourt (H),
McGraw Hill Cos. (MHP), and Houghton Mifflin (HTN); providers of
remediation and teacher training services like Sylvan Learning (SLVN),
Scholastic (SCHL) and Lightspan (LSPN); and, possibly, private school
operators like Edison Schools Inc. (EDSN) and Nobel Learning (NLCI).
(BS)



10:30 (Dow Jones) March Nasdaq falls to its 65-point limit down level
of 1986.50 at 10:23 a.m. ET. A 10-minute trading curb is in effect. If
the market remains at limit down, a 2-minute trading halt will occur.
March Nasdaq's move to limit down is accompanied by new session lows in
March S&Ps and DJIA. (DMC)



10:22 (Dow Jones) The currency crisis in Turkey will have minimal
impact on global financial services giant Citigroup (C) - and possibly a
positive one, said analyst Catherine Murray of J.P. Morgan Securities.
She said Turkey probably represents less than 1% of its core income and
it's not primarily lending-based. "Citi is an experienced player in the
emerging markets, including in Turkey, and is adept at risk management
in volatile markets," she added, noting that she continues to believe
Citi, rated buy, is a defensive play in the current market environment.
(TAS)



10:11 (Dow Jones) Although the Naz Composite on Thursday recorded a
new low for the year-old bear market, technical momentum readings ticked
up by the end of the day. Moreover, the bear market low of 2185.91 was
virtually important weekly support at 2182.10. This means technical
bounce. If the index, now around 2211, can close above 2300, it means
upside correction. (SC)


80000

Document dj00000020010711dx2n02n3q




 RESEARCH ALERT-UBS cuts earnings forecasts for Nortel. 

109 words
22 February 2001
14:58
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Feb 22 (Reuters) - UBS said Thursday it cut its earnings forecasts and price target for Nortel Networks Corp. , the world's no. 1 supplier of fiber-optic telecoms equipment, after its recent profit warning. 

 UBS said it lowered its earnings estimates to 72 cents a share from 81 cents for fiscal 2001 and 90 cents from $1.00 for 2002. 

 It also said it was lowering its price target for the company to $27 from $30. 

 Nortel's shares were down 11 cents, or 0.57 percent, at $19.04 in early trading on the New York Stock Exchange. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2m054d6




 U.S. blue chips seen up at open - Brocade to pressure techs. 

 By Haitham Haddadin 
954 words
22 February 2001
14:23
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Feb 22 (Reuters) - Blue-chip stocks are seen opening higher on Thursday with tech shares a bit lower as a downbeat sales forecast from Brocade Communications Systems Inc. hits the computer data storage sector. 

 "I don't see any catalysts to turn the psychology around. It looks Nasdaq is going to fall a little lower. We got killed yesterday," said Larry Wachtel, market analyst at Prudential Securities. 

 Shortly before the open, S&P 500 futures for March were up 4.40 points at 1,260.80 after hovering around the break-even mark suggesting the broader market would be flat to a little higher. Dow Jones average futures were up 40 points at 10,580, pointing to some gain among the 30 blue-chip stocks making up the average. 

 Nasdaq futures for March were down 3.50 points at 2,066.50. This pointed to a modest decline. Earlier the futures were indicating a fall of about 1 percent in the technology-laden market at the open, a day after it fell to its lowest close in nearly two years. 

 The Nasdaq-100 premarket indicator was down 7.24 at 2,051.3, indicating a decline of 0.35 percent. Earlier, it was signaling a decline of just under 1 percent for the market's leading 100 stocks. 

 Stocks tumbled on Wednesday amid uncertainty about the economy that was compounded by an unexpectedly sharp gain in a key U.S. inflation gauge, the Consumer Price Index (CPI). The CPI rise for the month of January raised concerns that deep interest-rate cuts by the U.S. Federal Reserve may not be coming any time soon, dampening hopes of a quick fix for the economic downturn. 

 "I expect a volatile opening, continued weakness in Nasdaq," said Peter Coolidge," managing director of equity trading at Brean Murray & Co. "Brocade is one more negative market leader that signals weakness for the tech market. It's losing a lot and that is hurting other storage makers." 

 Brocade beat forecasts in quarterly results released after Wednesday's close but the company cut its annual sales forecast, saying computer storage customers were wary of the shaky economy. 

 Brocade was the latest in a long list of high-tech companies to warn investors that the future is not as bright as previously thought. It shares plunged in pre-open trade to $37, down from a close at $44-11/16 on Nasdaq before issuing its results. 

 The decline hit EMC Corp., the No. 1 data storage company, which fell to $39, down from its close at $42.95 on the New York Stock Exchange. Veritas Software shares plunged to $66 in after-hours trade Wednesday, from $72-3/8 at the close that day. 

 "It is all part of the process of taking down all the sacred cows," said Prudential's Wachtel. "It is going to hurt the EMCs and the Veritases and those kind of stocks. That will be the aftermath of Brocade." 

 The shares of another Brocade peer, Emulex Corp. fell to $28-1/8 after-hours, from their close at $30-3/4, while QLogic Corp. fell to $35 from $40-9/16. 

 In overseas markets, Tokyo stocks ended slightly weaker Thursday as a rise in banks failed to offset a broad sell-off in the tech sect???s plunge. In Europe, a 7 percent slide in the shares of Nokia Corp. amid rumours of a possible profit-warning from the Finnish mobile phone giant, pounded techs to another 16-month low. 

 Traders were also keeping an eye on events half way across the globe in Turkey, which is mired in financial turmoil. 

 On the economic data front, U.S. Jobless claims figures released at 8.30 a.m. EST (1330 GMT) for the week ended Feb. 17 showed a rise to 348,000 from a downward revised 344,000 the previous week. 

 The increase is yet another sign of a slowing economy, but it was also smaller than expectations that the number of people filing jobless claims would rise to 355,000. 

 Other data on the table include the leading economic indicators for January at 10 a.m. EST (1500 GMT) to be issued by the Conference Board. 

 In other news, Portal Software, maker of telecommunications billing software, late on Wednesday posted fourth-quarter earnings that beat estimates, but it warned first-quarter results would not meet expectations. Its shares fell to $9-1/8 in the aftermarket after its results were announced, down from their close at $9-3/4. 

 ADC Telecommunications Inc., a telecom equipment maker, reported a slight rise in first-quarter pro forma operating income that beat expectations, and warned about the impact of the U.S. economic slowdown through 2002. It shares rose to $11-1/8 afterhours from their close at $10-5/16. 

 J.C. Penney Co. Inc., the nation's fifth-largest retailer, reported a smaller-than-expected fourth-quarter operating loss early Thursday as the slowing economy and fierce competition from discounters took a toll on results. 

 J.C. Penney shares closed Wednesday at $13.65. 

 Also in the news, JDS Uniphase Corp., the world's No. 1 supplier of fiber-optic components, said late on Wednesday it had acquired Optical Process Automation Inc. Terms of the deal were not disclosed. JDS fell to $30-7/8 in the aftermarket from a close at $31-11/16 on Nasdaq. 

 On Wednesday, the Nasdaq Composite Index tumbled 49.42 points, or 2.13 percent, to 2,268.93, a level not seen on a closing basis since early March 1999. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2m0545y




 Israeli stocks edge lower, overcome Turkey troubles. 

437 words
22 February 2001
16:26
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 TEL AVIV, Feb 22 (Reuters) - Israeli stocks overcame financial woes in Turkey to close only slightly lower on Thursday, as an expiration of blue-chip options dominated the session, traders said. 

 Stocks opened more than one percent lower on the heels of a sharp devaluation of the Turkish lira, which also pressured global equities markets, as well as on continued weakness on Nasdaq. 

 "We were afraid it would affect the shekel," said a trader at the Ilanot Batucha brokerage. "The dollar was getting stronger since the beginning of the week." 

 The shekel fell nearly 0.4 percent against the dollar to 4.1370. 

 Turkey hoped to curb its crisis by floating the lira and abandoning its controlled currency regime, a move backed by the International Monetary Fund. 

 Shares of Lipman Electronic Engineering led decliners with a 13.1 percent drop. Traders noted Lipman does a lot of business in Turkey. 

 Other firms with heavy business in emerging markets also were hurt, including MA Industries , which fell 4.9 percent. 

 Overall, the blue-chip Tel Aviv 25 index ended unchanged at 457.41 points, while the broader TA-100 index dipped 0.33 percent to 443.71 points. 

 Responding to Nasdaq's 12 percent drop since Friday, the technology TelTech index slid 2.6 percent. 

 The market offset most of its losses late in the day on a combination of short-covering and hopes Nasdaq would open higher. 

 Turnover was a robust 514.7 million shekels, compared with Wednesday's at 155.7 million shekels. 

 Volume was boosted by options expirations, traders said. 

 Holding companies IDB Holdings and Discount Investments were among the hardest hit of blue-chips, falling 3.0 percent and 2.7 percent, respectively. 

 Nice Systems forged a new 52-week low of 54.70 shekels after a 3.2 percent drop, which followed a 7.8 percent dive on Wednesday. 

 On Wednesday, Nice delayed the release of fourth quarter and 2000 financial results until Monday, saying its audit was not completed. 

 Nice's shares have plunged in recent weeks after the company issued a fourth-quarter profit warning, forecast an operating loss in the first quarter of 2001, cut 20 percent of its workforce and said its chief executive officer would resign. 

 On the flip side, Israel Corp led gainers with a 3.5 percent gain, while Bezeq Israel Telecom rose 1.1 percent in solid turnover of 33 million shekels. 

 -Tel Aviv 100 index constituents 

 -Tel Aviv 25 index constituents 

 -Tel Aviv 100 index 

 -Tel Aviv 25 index 

 -Tel Aviv technology index 

 ($1 = 4.14 shekels). 

Document lba0000020010713dx2m0525e




 ADC Telecom '01 Earnings Revision Viewed As Modest 

 By Johnathan Burns 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
532 words
22 February 2001
01:54
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- ADC Telecommunications Inc.'s (ADCT) profitwarning for 2001 came as little surprise Wednesday to those who watch the fiber optics market closest. 

 The way things have been going, the thinness of the revision may have been the biggest surprise. 

 "I don't think investors will have a big issue with what transpired," said CIBC World Markets telecommunications equipment analyst Jim Jungjohann. "I would give them credit for being quite open with market conditions. I think the great thing is they didn't lower guidance any further." 

 After recent earnings and sales revisions by industry heavyweights Nortel Networks Corp. (NT) and competitors JDS Uniphase Corp. (JDSU) and Corning Inc. (GLW), many on Wall Street had already lowered their expectations before ADC's first quarter conference call after the market close Wednesday. 

 That leads Jungjohann to believe the stock will react favorably Thursday, despite the lowered guidance. 

 For the fiscal first quarter ended Jan. 31, ADC reported earnings of 7 cents a share - a penny above the First Call/Thomson Financial consensus - and at the top end of the company's previous guidance of 5 cents to 7 cents a share. In mid-January, ADC lowered guidance for the first quarter and year. Analysts had originally expected the company to earn 12 cents a share. 

 Heading into 2001, Wall Street and ADC expected the company's sales and earnings to rise 25% to 30%. But the company warned last month sales and earnings would rise only by 15% as spending for its fiber optic and broadband access equipment slowed in a cooling economy. 

 In its second revision of the still young year, ADC said it expects 2001 earnings of 48 cents to 55 cents a share. The First Call consensus was 55 cents. The company expects earnings to rise 10% to 20% in 2002. 

 ADC said 2001 sales will be $3.5 billion to $3.8 billion. The general consensus on the street had been somewhat more than $4 billion. 

 But Wall Street saw it coming. 

 US Bancorp Piper Jaffray analyst Frank McEvoy lowered his financial estimates Wednesday morning, citing a general slowdown in carrier spending. 

 A slowdown in spending growth and larger customer inventories hurt ADC's first quarter sales, which came in at $804.8 million compared with $593.9 million a year ago. Broadband connectivity sales rose 57% to $420 million from $267 million, while broadband access and transport sales increased 5% to $230 million from $219 million. 

 The company continued to show strength internationally, with sales from outside the U.S. swelling 68% to $219 million, or 27% of total sales. 

 "International still remains strong," said Jungjohann. "It's one of the last safe havens." 

 And the company's restructuring plans continue apace. ADC officials said more streamlining initiatives will be identified in the second quarter and the company will take an associated but yet undetermined one-time restructuring charge. 

 So far, the company has cut at least 1,400 employees as part of the restructuring. 

 -By Johnathan Burns,Dow Jones Newswires, 201-938-2020; johnathan.burns@dowjones.com 

Document dj00000020010711dx2m02kai




 ABN Amro Earns At Top End, But Underlying Growth Slow 

 By Neil Moorhouse 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
641 words
22 February 2001
14:16
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 AMSTERDAM -(Dow Jones)- ABN Amro Holding NV's (ABN) solid 2000 earnings were somewhat overshadowed Thursday by a picture of poor underlying growth. 

 Analysts said headline figures - a 21% increase in net profit to EUR3.097 billion and slightly topping a EUR3.07 billion forecast - were boosted by a lower tax rate. 

 More telling to them was a poor performance by the Netherlands' largest bank in its home market and higher costs. 

 Group operating profit increased 7.1% to EUR5.27 billion, boosted by a strong performance in all of Europe. But operating profit in the Netherlands plunged 22% to EUR1.15 billion. ABN Amro's investment banking division saw growth of just 5.3%. A previously announced restructuring charge tied to the group's reorganization was increased to EUR900 million from EUR800 million. 

 "Overall, there's enough for the bears to remain bearish," said Benoit Vincenzi, an analyst with Fox-Pitt, Kellton in London. "They won't win many supporters." 

 ABN Amro chairman Rijkman Groenink remained optimstic about the bank's prospects, though he declined to give a specific 2001 outlook, citing uncertain market conditions. He said the bank hadn't suffered in the fourth quarter from slower economic growth, as other European banks with international capital markets exposure did - and that it remained on track to achieve financial targets he announced in August. 

 "We have every confidence that we will achieve those goals," he told a news conference Thursday. 

 Groenink reiterated that ABN Amro's financial targets announced were relative to the performance of a peer group of other banks. 

 But many investors who heard him give those original targets - a doubling in the bank's share price over four years, an average return on equity of 25% and average earnings per share growth of 17% - had taken them as absolute. 

 They read Groenink's unwillingness to provide an earnings outlook and his emphasis on the group's relative performance Thursday as a backtracking on those targets. 

 "The first reaction of the market, however, is understandable," said Cor Kluis, an analyst at Rabo Securities in Amsterdam. "It might sound like a profit warning." 

 Justine Shih at Commerzbank, one of the more bearish analysts on ABN Amro, questioned the bank's ability to meet its goals. 

 "The performance could raise doubts over ABN Amro's ability to deliver on its promises," she said. 

 Groenink denied rumors of talks with U.K. bank Barclays PLC (BCS), but wouldn't rule out a European merger if it were done on a 50-50 or better basis with another bank. 

 "We want to remain in control of our future...It is not our intention to disappear," he said. 

 Groenink also ruled out the possibility of ABN Amro making a bid for a large U.S. investment bank as it strives to beef up that business following the purchase of parts of Barings in the U.S. last month. 

 Along with earnings, ABN Amro also announced a further sweeping review of its domestic retail banking activities and the slashing of over 6,000 jobs in three years. That reorganization, it said, will cut the number of branches to 550 bankshops and 80 advisory branches from a total 830 currently in response to changing demands from customers. 

 That move was praised by analysts, who said it showed ABN Amro's determination to improve its operations. 

 "Groenink has made clear he will take action, if the market makes it necessary," said Kluis. 

 Kluis said that as the investment banking market is expected to contract, it would be logical for ABN Amro to make a similar self-improvement move there. 

 Company website: http://www.abnamro.com

 -By Neil Moorhouse, Dow Jones Newswires; 31-20-6260770; neil.moorhouse@dowjones.com 

Document dji0000020010711dx2m00sjt




 Coldwater Creek Cuts 160 Workers At Idaho, W.Va. Locations 

172 words
22 February 2001
14:05
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 SANDPOINT, Idaho -(Dow Jones)- Coldwater Creek Inc. (CWTR) plans to cut 160 positions at its Idaho and West Virginia facilities, in response to a slowdown in sales of full-price spring merchandise. 

 In a press release Thursday, the catalog retailer said it will employ 1,930 after the reduction. 

 As reported Feb. 13, Coldwater warned that significant sales shortfalls would hurt its bottom line, prompting investors to trade the price of the stock down about 49%. 

 The company revised fourth-quarter earnings expectations downward to $400,000 to $700,000, or 4 cents to 7 cents a share. Sales are expected to be $112 million to $117 million. 

 Coldwater said Thursday it is on schedule to open 10 to 15 new stores in 2001. 

 The price of Coldwater stock has recovered little since it was halved last week on the profit warning. The shares traded recently at $18.88, unchanged from Wednesday's close. 

 -Pamela Tate; Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5400 

Document dj00000020010711dx2m02kp6




 Israeli stocks dip as Nasdaq slides, U.S. CPI jumps. 

416 words
21 February 2001
16:30
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 TEL AVIV, Feb 21 (Reuters) - Israeli stocks slipped in light trading on Wednesday, as a drop in Nasdaq and a jump in U.S. consumer prices pressured the market, traders said. 

 Options players dominated the market as blue-chip options expired this session. 

 "It was options expiration day and the CPI in the United States was above expectations," said a trader at Gmul Sahar Securities. "And Nasdaq also affected the market a little." 

 Still, most investors remained sidelined in the absence of progress on a new Israeli government. 

 Prime Minister-elect Ariel Sharon is seeking to form a broad-based government of national unity, including parties from the right, left and centre. 

 But infighting within the left-of-centre Labour Party has proved to be an obstacle and led to outgoing Prime Minister Ehud Barak announcing he would make good on an election night promise to take a timeout from politics and as Labour Party head. 

 The blue-chip Tel Aviv 25 index ended 0.5 percent lower at 457.43 points, while the broader TA-100 index fell 0.76 percent to 445.18 points. 

 On the heels of Nasdaq's 4.4 percent drop on Tuesday, the technology TelTech index slid 2.2 percent. 

 Turnover was a slim 155.7 million shekels, compared with Tuesday's trading which was similarly lacklustre at 143.9 million shekels. 

 The market stayed modestly lower most of the session, but fell slightly further after news the U.S. CPI rose 0.6 percent - twice market expectations. 

 Nice Systems led decliners with a 7.8 percent fall to a new 52-week low of 56.50 shekels after it delayed the release of fourth quarter and 2000 financial results until Monday. Nice, which was slated to issue earnings this session, said its audit was not completed. 

 Nice's shares have plunged in recent weeks after the company issued a fourth-quarter profit warning, forecast an operating loss in the first quarter of 2001, cut 20 percent of its workforce and announced the resignation of its chief executive officer. 

 Teva Pharmaceutical Industries fell 3.0 percent to close an arbitrage gap with its Nasdaq-traded shares, while the recently battered holding company Clal Industries led blue-chip gainers with a 2.6 percent rise. 

 -Tel Aviv 100 index constituents 

 -Tel Aviv 25 index constituents 

 -Tel Aviv 100 index 

 -Tel Aviv 25 index 

 -Tel Aviv technology index 

 ($1 = 4.12 shekels). 

Document lba0000020010713dx2l050vq




 Israel's Nice delays Q4 results to Feb 26. 

111 words
21 February 2001
12:30
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 TEL AVIV, Feb 21 (Reuters) - Israel's Nice Systems, a maker of multimedia digital recording systems, said it will delay its release of fourth quarter financial results from Wednesday to February 26 because the audit is not yet complete. 

 Nice's shares have plunged in recent weeks after the company issued a fourth-quarter profit warning, forecast an operating loss in the first quarter of 2001, cut 20 percent of its workforce and announced the resignation of its chief executive officer. 

 In afternoon trading, Nice's shares hovered just above its 52-week low at 58.30 shekels, down 4.9 percent. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2l04zci




 ADC Telecom Again Reduces 2001 Profit Target 

423 words
21 February 2001
21:28
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 MINNEAPOLIS -- ADC Telecommunications Inc. reported fiscal first-quarter earnings in line with a warning issued last month but again lowered its fiscal 2001 forecast. 

 For the quarter ended Jan. 31, the telecommunications-equipment maker posted net income of $2.2 million, or break-even on a per-share basis, compared with $53.1 million, or seven cents a share, a year earlier. 

 Excluding $49.9 million in restructuring-related charges and $4.4 million in stock-based compensation expenses, ADC said it would have earned $56.5 million, or seven cents a share, compared with $53.7 million, or seven cents a share, a year earlier. 

 Last month ADC (ADCT) said it expected to earn five to seven cents a share. At the time, the mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial was for earnings of 12 cents a share. 

 Revenue rose 36% to $804.8 million. ADC last month said sales were expected to come in around $800 million, compared with analysts' previous expectations of nearly $850 million. International sales surged 68% to $219 million, or 27% of total sales, compared with 22% a year earlier. 

 Retiring Chairman William Cadogan said in a prepared statement that "as a result of a challenging economic and market environment in the United States, sales to domestic customers grew at a lower-than-expected rate of 26% and ADC's first-quarter earnings were affected by lower profit margins." 

 Going forward, ADC said it remains "cautious" about its growth prospects for fiscal 2001 and 2002. 

 The company is now predicting fiscal 2001 earnings from operations of 48 cents to 55 cents a share on revenue of $3.5 billion to $3.8 billion. In fiscal 2000, the company earned 50 cents a share on revenue of $3.29 billion. 

 In its profit warning last month, ADC cut its fiscal 2001 growth targets to 15% for both earnings and revenue. 

 For the fiscal second quarter, which ends in late April, the company is now forecasting earnings of nine to 10 cents a share on revenue of $825 million to $870 million. The First Call estimate was for earnings of 11 cents a share. A year earlier, ADC earned $77.1 million, or 10 cents a share, on revenue of $709.2 million. 

 ADC also issued guidance for fiscal 2002, which begins Nov. 1. The company is predicting earnings and revenue will each grow 10% to 20%. 

 Copyright (c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020010711dx2l00ao9




 Canada's CGI Group to Acquire IMRglobal for $438 Million, Including Debt 

862 words
21 February 2001
17:27
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 CGI Group Inc., a Montreal-based information-technology consulting company, Wednesday said it has agreed to acquire IMRglobal Corp. for about $438 million, including the assumption of debt. 

 Following the acquisition announcement, shares of CGI Group fell sharply in the U.S. and Toronto amid investor concerns that CGI's proposed offer for IMRglobal was too expensive. 

 At 4 p.m. EST on the New York Stock Exchange, shares of CGI (GIB) tumbled $1.25, or 22%, to $4.35. In Toronto, shares closed down 1.98 Canadian dollars (US$1.29), or 23%, at C$6.77, after being halted at C$8.66 when the deal was announced. 

 On the Nasdaq Stock Market, shares of Clearwater, Fla.-based IMRglobal (IMRS) rose three cents to $6.56. 

 CGI expects the acquisition to be "neutral to slightly accretive" the company's per-share cash earnings. Nonetheless, Chairman and Chief Executive Serge Godin said concerns over the acquisition's potential dilutive impact were behind the stock drop. 

 TD Securities analyst Joseph Vevjoda said the proposed $438 million acquisition represents 1.7 times IMRglobal's 2000 revenue of $256.2 million. In previous acquisitions, Mr. Vevjoda said CGI paid one times the company's revenue. However, the analyst said U.S. acquisitions usually require that a premium be paid, adding that the acquisition gives CGI the "critical mass" it needed to penetrate the U.S. market. 

 Mr. Godin referred to last's week announcement that Schlumberger Ltd. NV (SLB) plans to acquire information-technology services company Sema PLC (SEMA). He noted Schlumberger paid 2.3 times Sema's sales, and Schlumberger's shares fell 18% in the two sessions following the announcement. 

 Under the definitive agreement, IMRglobal shareholders will receive 1.5974 Class A shares of CGI for each IMRglobal common share held. Based on the average closing price of CGI Class A subordinate shares for the 25 trading days through Feb. 16 on the NYSE, the exchange ratio represents an implied price of about $9.50 for each IMRglobal share, a premium of 45% more than IMRglobal's Friday closing price of $6.56. 

 The transaction is expected to close in the spring, and is subject to the approval of IMRglobal shareholders and regulators. 

 Once the deal is completed, CGI will have about 13,000 employees in more than 60 offices in 24 countries, serving more than 3,000 clients in North America, Europe and Asia. 

 CGI said its majority individual shareholders have decided to exercise their pre-emptive rights to maintain their Class B voting interests in CGI at current levels. 

 Meanwhile, CGI said BCE Inc. (BCE), which owns 41.8% of CGI, has decided not to exercise its pre-emptive right to acquire additional Class A subordinate shares, but will decide before closing of the IMRglobal acquisition if it will exercise its right for Class B multiple voting shares. 

 The company said Mr. Godin and Chief Financial Officer Andre Imbeau will acquire additional Class B shares at $5.95 a share, for a total value of $36.5 million to $46.6 million, depending on BCE's decision. CGI didn't provide the specific stakes held by Mr. Godin or Mr. Imbeau. 

 IMRglobal also released its full-year results Wednesday, but did not break out its fourth-quarter figures. For all of 2000, the company swung to a profit, posting net income of $185,000, or break-even, compared with a year-earlier net loss of $11.8 million, or 34 cents a share. Last year's figures include $1.5 million in charges, while 1999's results include $31.2 million in charges. IMRglobal didn't say what its earnings would have been excluding the charges. 

 The company last month warned that it should post 2000 earnings of 14 cents to 16 cents a share, excluding charges of $3.7 million primarily related to an accounting change. At the time, the mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial was for earnings of 37 cents a share. IMRglobal blamed the warning on a sharp fourth quarter downturn that hit North America the hardest. 

 Revenue rose 15% to $256.2 million. 

 Going forward, IMRglobal said it should post first-quarter earnings from operations of four cents to six cents a share. Prior to last month's profit warning, the First Call estimate was 12 cents a share; the latest estimate was for a loss of one cent a share. The company is projecting second-quarter earnings of nine cents to 11 cents a share, compared with the revised First Call estimate of a penny a share. 

 In the year-earlier periods, IMRglobal earned $4.3 million, or 10 cents a share, and $11 million, or 27 cents a share, respectively. 

 The company also reiterated its 2001 revenue forecast of $285 million to $325 million. IMRglobal didn't offer earnings guidance, but the First Call estimate was for 2001 earnings of nine cents a share. It had been 64 cents a share before last month's warning. 

 Copyright (c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020010711dx2l00amz




 Randstad  Cautious  Over Uncertain Demand For Temp Staff 

 By Maaike Veen 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
514 words
21 February 2001
16:20
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 AMSTERDAM -(Dow Jones)- Dutch temporary staff agency Randstad Holding NV (N.RND) sought to reassure investors Wednesday it's back on track, but remained cautious about the immediate future. 

 The company said net profit from operations in 2000 dropped by 27% to EUR151.8 million due to slower growth in its key markets, the U.S., the Netherlands and Germany. The company also said its specialty staffing services in the IT segment came up against very disappointing demand. And for the first half of this year Randstad forecasts a result "considerably" below that of the same period in 2000. 

 "It will be a tough year for Randstad," said analyst Paul Boltjes with Van Lanschot. "With a shrinking Dutch market which still generates more than 40% of their sales, a difficult American market, and a hesitant German market." 

 Net profit remained stable at EUR207.2 million compared with EUR207 million last year, because Randstad booked a profit from the sale of non-core cleaning subsidiary Lavold. Net profit in the first half of 2000 was EUR77.5 million. 

 Chief executive Hans Zwarts said: "It's not a fairy tale, but in the long term everything will be fine," adding that markets for temporary and contract staffing will continue to grow structurally. 

 The stock didn't respond to the figures but slid 1.6%, or 30 cents, to EUR18.50 in an overall weak market. 

 For the year as a whole the company said that income from ordinary operations after tax will increase more rapidly than the 5% to 10% rise seen for revenues. 

 Analysts at Effectenbank Stroeve sees sales growth at the lower end of this range. Van Lanshot's Boltjes agrees, adding that rival employment agency Adecco sees organic sales growth of between 12% to 15%. 

 Last year sales at Randstad, the world's fourth largest temping agency, grew 11% to EUR6.2 billion. Of this increase, 4.5% was generated by autonomous growth, 2.5% by acquisitions and disinvestments, and 3.8% by exchange rate fluctuations. 

 Zwarts described 2000 as a year in which the company made significant investments in new service concepts and products like Newmonday, its Internet joint venture with Dutch publisher VNU NV (N.VNU) as well as coping with slower market growth. 

 That caused Randstad to issue a profit warning in November, the first in the company's history. 

 "Performance and cost control will determine our agenda in 2001", Zwarts said, indicating Randstad is on track with implementing measures such as integrating back offices in Europe and the U.S.. 

 The margin on earnings before interest and tax fell to 4.1% in 2000 from 5.5%. Zwarts declined to give a target for the current year but said the company is striving for 6%. 

 Organic expansion is seen driving 2001 with Spain, Italy and Germany likely to book the strongest growth. 


-By Maaike Veen, Dow Jones Newswires; 31-20-626-0770;
maaike.veen@dowjones.com -0-
-0- 21/02/01 16-20G


Document dji0000020010711dx2l00rqs




 ADC Telecom 1Q Oper Net 7c/Share 

779 words
21 February 2001
21:03
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


ADC Telecommunications Inc. - Minneapolis
   1st Quar Jan. 31:
                      2001           2000
Sales             $804,800,000   $593,900,000
Net income         a 2,200,000   b 53,100,000
Avg shrs (basic)   772,700,000    699,700,000
Avg shrs (diluted) 803,200,000    730,100,000
Shr earns (basic)
 Net income             a ....          b .08
Shr earns (diluted)
 Net income             a ....          b .07



a. Includes $22.7 million in non-recurring charges related primarily
to headcount reductions, $4.4 million in non-cash stock compensation
expense and $27.2 million in restructuring charges. Before items,
earnings were $56.5 million, or 7 cents a share.


 b. Includes $600,000 stock compensation expense. Before the item, earnings were $53.7 million. 

 ADC Telecommunications Inc.'s (ADCT) first quarter earnings came in at the high end of its reduced outlook, announced on Jan. 19. Citing disappointing domestic spending by communications service providers, the company then predicted earnings of 5 cents to 7 cents a share. 

 A current First Call/Thomson Financial survey of 20 analysts produced a mean earnings estimate of 6 cents a diluted share for the latest quarter. Prior to ADC's profit warning, Wall Street had been looking for 12 cents a share. 

 Looking ahead, ADC remains cautious about its growth assumptions for 2001 and 2002, putting second quarer earnings at 9 cents to 10 cents a share on sales of $825 million to $870 million. 

 The profit view excludes anticipated restructuring charges, with amounts yet to be determined. In December and January, ADC implemented a broad cost-cutting plan that called for rationalizing a product line and reducing the work force. 

 A First Call survey of 19 analysts predicted second quarter earnings of 10 cents a share. For the second quarter ended April 30, ADC earned 10 cents a share, or $77.1 million, on sales of $770.6 million. 

 (Corrected 5:08 PM) 

 ADC is targeting a third quarter profit of 13 cents to 16 cents a share, with sales of $895 million to $985 million. A First Call/Thomson Financial survey put earnings at 16 cents a share. 

 Before items, the year-ago third quarter earnings were 15 cents a share on sales of $891.0 million. 

 The company expects fourth quarter earnings of 19 cents to 22 cents a share and sales of $1.035 billion to $1.14 billion. Analysts currently project earnings at the high end of that range at 22 cents a share. 

 For the fourth quarter ended Oct. 31, earnings before items were $137.9 million, or 18 cents a share, on sales were $1.03 billion. 

 ADC expects to post 2001 earnings, before items, of 48 cents to 55 cents a share, with revenue of $3.5 billion to $3.8 billion.  Analysts are looking for 55 cents a share. For 2000, the company earned 50 cents a share. Sales for the year ago were $3.29 billion. 

 For fiscal year 2002, ADC currently expects annual growth rates for sales and diluted earnings per share to both be in the range of 10% to 20%, subject to economic conditions in the next two years. 

 Eighteen analysts polled by First Call produced a mean 2002 earnings estimate of 68 cents a share. 

 Richard R. Roscitt, ADC's new chief executive, said last week that the company could boost annual revenue to $10 billion over the next few years. One key task, Roscitt said, will be to build ADC into a better-known brand. 

 ADC reported that broadband connectivity sales for the first quarter rose 57% to $420 million from $267 million, driven by demand for fiber- and copper-connectivity systems and components. 

 Broadband access and transport sales increased 5% to $230 million from $219 million in the year ago. Higher volumes in wireline systems, cable systems and broadband wireless systems were partially offset by lower sales of enterprise-located access systems. 

 Integrated Solutions sales rose 44% to $155 million, an increase ADC attributed to higher sales of software systems as a result of the July acquisition of Centigram Communications. 

 ADC's international sales increased 68% to $219 million, or 27% of total sales, in the latest first quarter, compared to 22% of total sales in the year-ago quarter. 

 As the company had warned, quarterly sales to domestic customers increased at a lower-than-expected rate of 26%, hurting profit margins. 

 Shares of ADC were trading at $10.94 in after-market activity, up from $10.31 close of the regular session, which marks the stock's 52-week low. 

 Company Web site: http://www.adc.com

 -Pamela Tate; Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5400 

Document dj00000020010711dx2l02jot




 Nortel nightmare deepens: shares fall 11% amid lawsuits, rumours of lawsuits 

 BY GILLIAN LIVINGSTON 
CP
844 words
21 February 2001
08:32
The Canadian Press
CPR
English
 Copyright (c) 2001 The Canadian Press. All rights reserved. 

 TORONTO (CP) _ Nortel Networks shares fell 11 per cent to their lowest level since mid-1999 on massive trading Tuesday despite news that JDS Uniphase isn't suing the fibre-optic giant over a recent deal _ at least not yet _ and reassurances from the company. 

 Nortel stock dropped $3.69 to $29 in trading of nearly 21 million shares in Toronto. In New York, Nortel fell $1.13 US to $18.87, also a new 52-week low, on trading of 43.1 million shares. 

 The stock drop occurred as the Brampton, Ont.-based company announced that its chief technology officer had resigned. 

 That came one day after Nortel CEO John Roth had stressed his company's strong business position. Meanwhile, Nortel defended two executives accused of insider trading in three U.S. class-action lawsuits. 

 On what might be called the bright side, a JDS Uniphase executive denied that JDS plans to sue Nortel _ yet _ over the dramatic decline in its share price just days after the two companies had completed a stock-based deal valued then at up to $3 billion US. 

 ``We're not currently contemplating litigation, although we're studying the matter very carefully,'' JDS chief financial officer Tony Muller said in an interview. 

 Nortel, a major customer of JDS Uniphase, closed a deal last Tuesday to acquire a JDS plant in Switzerland in exchange for 65.7 million Nortel common shares. 

 On Friday, Nortel shares lost one-third of their value after Nortel slashed its 2001 growth projections. 

 Muller said Tuesday that JDS was ``very shocked'' at the drop in Nortel's share price. 

 And an analyst's memo, on Roth's comments during a Feb. 12 Webcast conference to institutional investors, that says Nortel's boss suggested that business was weakening has brought into question who knew about the change in prospects and when, the Globe and Mail reported Wednesday. 

 John Wilson, an RBC Dominion Securities analyst, wrote in his memo to clients _ two days before the profit warning _ that: ``In our view, Nortel presented a more cautious outlook for growth in the first half of 2001.'' 

 Wilson also wrote that Nortel management had indicated that customers were showing signs of scaling back orders, which could lead to slower growth in revenues through the first half of 2001. 

 While this was ``generally in line with previous company guidance. . . we believe the near-term environment is, if anything, more difficult then they had believed entering the year,'' wrote Wilson, who kept a strong buy recommendation on the stock. 

 However, Wilson also wrote that Nortel remained bullish about its long-term prospects. 

 The Globe, quoting sources, says the Ontario Securities Commission has asked Nortel for information relating to its change in forecast and when management learned of the shift. 

 Securities laws and regulations require publicly traded companies to disclose, in a timely manner, material developments such as profit warnings and make their disclosures public. 

 Also on Tuesday, Nortel issued a statement explaining the trading of two senior executives, while also announcing that chief technology officer Bill Hawe had resigned Feb. 12. 

 ``He left for his own reasons,'' said Tina Warren, a Nortel spokeswoman. 

 Nortel said Hawe exercised about 602,000 options when he resigned and sold the shares. 

 ``It is not unusual for executives to exercise options once they choose to leave the company,'' Nortel said. 

 Hawe had joined Nortel in 1998 when it bought California-based Bay Networks, and was named chief technology officer in June 1999. 

 As for the stock transactions by Bill Conner, president of e-business Solutions, and by Chahram Bolouri, president of global operations, Nortel said they sold only enough shares to cover the cost of exercising their options and the related brokerage fees and taxes. 

 It said they then received another grant of options, increasing their Nortel shareholdings. 

 Questions abound about how Nortel could have been blindsided by a spending slowdown by its customers. 

 As a result, at least three class-action lawsuits have been filed in the United States, and two are being considered in Canada. 

 Harvey Strosberg, a well known class-action lawyer in Windsor, Ont., has been consulted by some Nortel shareholders. 

 ``I'm reviewing the matter and I'll make a decision in the next few days,'' Strosberg said. 

 A group representing Quebec shareholders said Tuesday it will decide by the end of the week whether it will file suit against Nortel, Montreal La Presse reported Wednesday. 

 The U.S. lawsuits allege Nortel made misleading statements to investors about its growth prospects for 2001. 

 These legal actions seek to represent investors who bought shares after Nortel insisted on Jan. 18 that it expected growth of 30 per cent this year. 

 Such ``stock drop suits'' are common in America, observed Rodney Smith, a partner with Blaney McMurtry in Toronto. 

 But Strosberg said Nortel investors in Canada should pay attention to the U.S. litigation, because they may be included in the American court's class definition. 

Document cpr0000020010711dx2l00e37




 Abercrombie & Fitch 4Q Net 76c/Share Vs 73c 

258 words
20 February 2001
21:01
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


Abercrombie & Fitch Co. - Reynoldsburg, Ohio
   4th Quar Feb. 3:
                          2001               2000
Sales                 $439,445,000       $363,694,000
Net income              77,215,000         76,724,000
Shr earns (basic)
  Net income                   .78                .75
Shr earns (diluted)
  Net income                   .76                .73
   Year:
Sales                1,237,604,000      1,030,858,000
Net income             158,133,000        149,604,000
Shr earns (basic)
  Net income                  1.58               1.45
Shr earns (diluted)
  Net income                  1.55               1.39



Abercrombie & Fitch (ANF) managed to beat its lowered fourth quarter
outlook. In early January the retailer warned that it expected to post
income of 73 cents to 75 cents a share, in the wake of a 11% drop in
December same-store sales.


 A First Call/Thomson Financial survey of about 25 analysts produced a mean earnings estimate of 74 cents a share for the just-ended quarter. Prior to Abercrombie's profit warning, Wall Street had been expecting around 82 cents a share. 

 Comparable store sales fell 9% for the latest quarter. 

 Abercrombie credited tightly-controlled expenses for the increased fourth quarter earnings. 

 While indicating optimism about the spring merchandise  line, the company said it is taking a "very cautious approach" to the business in 2001. 

 Abercrombie, which posted a year same-store sales decrease of 7%, operated 354 stores at the end of fiscal 2000. 

 A First Call survey of 25 analysts put 2001 earnings at $1.79 a diluted share. 

 -Pamela Tate; Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5400 

Document dj00000020010711dx2k02lxq




 WSJ.COM WRAP: Home Depot's 4Q Profit Hurt By Slowdown 

493 words
20 February 2001
16:55
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   A WSJ.COM News Roundup



ATLANTA -(Dow Jones)- Home Depot Inc. (HD) posted a 20% decline in its
fourth-quarter profit, the home-improvement retailer's first quarterly
earnings decline in 15 years, as the company grappled with a slowing
economy.


 Home Depot on Tuesday reported net income of $465 million, or 20 cents a diluted share, for the period ended Jan. 28, compared with $578 million, or 25 cents a share, a year earlier. Sales rose 14% to $10.46 billion from $9.17 billion. 

 Per-share earnings met analysts' lowered estimates. Last month, the company issued its second earnings warning for the fourth quarter, citing a "tough economy." At the time, the company said it expected to post earnings of 20 cents a share, below analysts' estimates at the time of 24 cents a share. 

 In October, Home Depot issued a profit warning for its third and fourth quarters, though the company at that time still predicted fourth-quarter earnings of 26 cents a share. 

 "The uncertainty of the current economy continues to put tremendous pressure on consumer spending. However, we are confident of our ability to control operating expenses while rolling out major innovative merchandising and customer-service programs and opening 200 new stores during the coming year," Robert L. Nardelli, Home Depot's president and chief executive, said in a prepared statement. 

 For the quarter, same-store sales, or sales at stores open at least a year, were flat compared with a year earlier. The company said its same-store sales, a key measure of retailers' performance, were hurt by about 2% from deflation in lumber pricing, which reached an eight-year low during the quarter, and by weaker building-materials pricing. 

 Home Depot, which is No. 1 in its segment, said sales comparisons also were hurt by the boost given to the second half of fiscal 1999 by demand for Y2K-related products. 

 Looking forward, the company said it is comfortable with analysts' earnings expectations of 26 cents a share for the first quarter of fiscal 2001. In the year-earlier quarter ended April 30, the company posted net income of $629 million, or 27 cents a share, on sales of $11.11 billion. 

 Home Depot said the rollout of an aggressive appliance program will more than double sales activity for that segment during the year. The company also sees a strong product lineup for lawn and garden after receiving high customer acceptance of its new lines of outdoor power equipment. 

 The company operates 1,123 retail outlets, including 1,020 Home Depot stores in the U.S., 67 Home Depot stores in Canada, and seven Home Depot stores in South America. It also operates 24 EXPO Design Centers, four Villager's Hardware stores and one Home Depot Floor Store outlet. 

 For continuously updated news from The Wall Street Journal, see WSJ.com at http://wsj.com. 

Document dj00000020010711dx2k02lbz




 Home Depot 4Q Net 20c/Diluted Shr Vs 25c 

533 words
20 February 2001
12:55
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   Home Depot Inc.
   4th Quar Jan. 28:
                      2001           2000
Sales             $10,463,000,000 $9,174,000,000
Net income            465,000,000    578,000,000
Avg shrs (basic)    2,322,000,000  2,303,000,000
Avg shrs (diluted)  2,351,000,000  2,351,000,000
Shr earns (basic)
 Net income                .20            .25
Shr earns (diluted)
 Net income                .20            .25



Home Depot Inc. (HD) met already reduced fourth-quarter analysts'
earnings estimates of 20 cents a share. In January, the company issued
its second fourth-quarter earnings warning, saying earnings would fall
short of a year earlier because of a "tough economy." The quarterly
earnings decline is the company's first in 15 years.


 Fourth-quarter comparable-store sales were flat and were negatively impacted by about 2% due to deflation in lumber pricing, which reached an eight-year low during the quarter, as well as deflation in building materials retail pricing, Home Depot said Tuesday. Sales comparisons also were hurt by demand for Y2K-related products over the second half of fiscal 1999. 

 The company said it is comfortable with analysts' earnings expectations of 26 cents a share for the first quarter of fiscal 2001. 

 Home Depot is confident in controlling its operating expenses, and plans to open 200 new stores during the next year while introducing "major innovative" merchandising and customer service programs. 

 The home-improvement retailer said the rollout of an aggressive appliance program will more than double sales activity for that segment during the next year. The company also sees a strong product lineup for lawn and garden after receiving high customer acceptance of its new lines of outdoor power equipment. 

 "Our financial strength enables us to maintin a very positive long-term outlook for the company and its shareholders," Chief Executive Robert L. Nardelli said. 

 However, Home Depot cautions that the uncertainty of the current economy continues to put pressure on consumer spending. 

 In October, Home Depot had expected to earn 26 cents a share for the fourth quarter, but lowered the projection to 20 cents a share in its January profit warning, citing progressively worse fourth quarter same-store sales from a combination of consumers' stock-market losses, record cold weather in the Midwest, rising energy costs and mounting consumer debt. The company expected that many of the same economic factors affecting sales in the fourth quarter would continue in the first half of fiscal 2002. 


   Year Jan. 28:
                       2001            2000
Sales             $45,738,000,000  $38,434,000,000
Net income          2,581,000,000    2,320,000,000
Avg shrs (basic)    2,315,000,000    2,244,000,000
Avg shrs (diluted)  2,352,000,000    2,342,000,000
Shr earns (basic)
 Net income                  1.11             1.03
Shr earns (diluted)
 Net income                  1.10             1.00



Home Depot's same-store sales for the year rose 4%.



A First Call/Thomson Financial survey of 20 analysts put Home Depot's
fiscal 2002 earnings at $1.25 a share, while four analysts project
revenue of $54.1 million for the year.



-Scott Austin; Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5388



(Corrected 9:59 AM)


Document dj00000020010711dx2k02kn8




 Home Depot Posts 20% Profit Drop, Says Slow Economy, Weak Lumber Prices May Hurt 1st-Quarter Sales 

743 words
20 February 2001
13:24
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 ATLANTA -- Home Depot Inc. posted a 20% decline in its fourth-quarter profit, its first quarterly earnings decline in 15 years, as the No. 1 home-improvement retailer grappled with a slowdown in the economy. 

 The company also expects economic conditions, along with low lumber prices, to pressure sales in the first quarter. During a conference call with analysts and investors Tuesday, Home Depot (HD) executives said same-store sales -- or sales at stores open a year or more -- could be down or flat in the first quarter, just as they were in the fourth quarter. 

 For the fourth quarter that ended Jan. 28, Home Depot reported net income of $465 million, or 20 cents a diluted share, compared with $578 million, or 25 cents a share, a year earlier. Sales rose 14% to $10.46 billion from $9.17 billion. 

 Per-share earnings met analysts' lowered estimates. Last month, the company issued its second earnings warning for the fourth quarter, citing a "tough economy." At the time, the company said it expected to post earnings of 20 cents a share, below analysts' estimates at the time of 24 cents a share. 

 In October, Home Depot issued a profit warning for its third and fourth quarters, though the company at that time still predicted fourth-quarter earnings of 26 cents a share. 

 "The uncertainty of the current economy continues to put tremendous pressure on consumer spending. However, we are confident of our ability to control operating expenses while rolling out major innovative merchandising and customer service programs and opening 200 new stores during the coming year," Robert L. Nardelli, Home Depot's president and chief executive officer, said in a prepared statement. 

 "We expect that many of the same economic factors affecting sales in the current quarter will persist in the first half of fiscal 2001, arguing for a cautious near term outlook," Mr. Nardelli added. 

 For the fourth quarter, same-store sales were flat. The company said its same-store sales, a key measure of retailers' performance, were hurt by about 2% on the deflation in lumber pricing, which reached an eight-year low during the quarter, as well as deflation in building-materials retail pricing. 

 Home Depot said sales comparisons also were hurt by demand for Y2K-related products over the second half of fiscal 1999. 

 Looking forward, the company said it is comfortable with analysts' earnings expectations of 26 cents a share for the first quarter of fiscal 2001. In the year-earlier quarter ended April 30, the company posted net income of $629 million, or 27 cents a share, on sales of $11.11 billion. 

 Home Depot said the rollout of an aggressive appliance program will more than double sales activity for that segment during the next year. The company also sees a strong product lineup for lawn and garden after receiving high customer acceptance of its new lines of outdoor power equipment. 

 "The reality is that we continued to expect the next six months to face (much) of the turmoil and issues you hear about today," said Mr. Nardelli. While home improvement remains a high priority for Home Depot customers, they also have to contend with high energy bills, he said. 

 Reduced interest rates are expected to spur consumers to take out home-mortgage loans for home improvement. Mr. Nardelli said the company hasn't seen any impact from interest-rate cuts, though he is looking forward to some positive movement. 

 To spur sales in 2001, Home Depot will open about 118 stores in the first half of the year, 46% more than in the same period last year, Mr. Nardelli said. And to increase the sales capacity of existing stores, the company has initiated programs to make its sales associates more visible and available to consumers. 

 "We are increasing efficiencies at our stores with absolutely no deterioration in customer service and we recognize that we must provide unparalleled customer service to build loyalty and repeat sales," Mr. Nardelli said. 

 The company operates 1,123 retail outlets, including 1,020 Home Depot stores in the U.S., 67 Home Depot stores in Canada, and seven Home Depot stores in South America. It also operates 24 EXPO Design Centers, four Villager's Hardware stores and one Home Depot Floor Store outlet. 

 Copyright (c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020010711dx2k00acd




CLECexpo Spring 2001 Exhibitor Profiles; Conference and Exposition Begins This Week in New York

2,278 words
19 February 2001
17:30
Business Wire
BWR
English
(c) 2001  Business Wire. All Rights Reserved.   

NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Feb. 19, 2001--CLECexpo Spring 2001 starts this week at the Javits Convention Center in New York; listed below are profiles from CLECexpo Spring exhibitors. For more information about CLECexpo Spring go to http://www.clecexpo.com/attend-press.shtml .

Additional exhibitor news releases, advisories, and press kits can be found online at www.tradeshownews.com .

Business Wire is the official news wire for CLECexpo 2001. 


Company:  AccessColo
Booth:  239
Contact:  Rick Hourigan
Phone:  973-290-0093
E-mail:  rhourigan@accesscolo.com
Web:   www.accesscolo.com 
   AccessColo is rapidly building a network of carrier-neutral
colocation facilities called AccessColocenters. Combining the highest
quality carrier-grade space, the widest choice of network providers
and a broad portfolio of best-in-breed value-added services, including
managed storage services, our facilities offer a superior outsourcing
solution. Featuring advanced facility and network resources, our
state-of-the-art facilities eliminate the need for your company to
invest time and capital -- allowing you to better focus on your core
business. AccessColo has teamed with EMC to provide best-in-breed
Managed Storage Services (MSS), including primary, back-up, research
and development and disaster recovery solutions.
Company:  Abiliti Solutions
Booth:  618
Contact:  Kelley Riehlman
Phone:  866-464-2455
E-mail:  kriehlman@abilitisolutions.com
Web:   www.abilitisolutions.com Abiliti Solutions brings network service providers a better way to
manage their billing. We offer a full range of billing solutions from
traditional site licenses through our NetworkStrategies billing
application suite to a "hands-free" approach through our own Billing
ASP, BillingCentral. In addition, our new industry-leading
EventProcessor is now available on a stand-alone basis when providers
need real-time rating without billing. Our solutions give providers
the ability to adapt to a dynamic marketplace, the freedom to focus on
growing their business and the lowest total cost of ownership. Abiliti
Solutions is a privately held company headquartered in St. Louis,
Missouri.
Company:  Avail Networks
   Avail's Frontera(TM) ICD introduces a new category of
multi-service customer-located equipment that marries the best
features of IADs, ATM switches, and compact DSLAMs -- the Integrated
Concentration Device. The ICD is purpose-built for deployment by
providers serving clusters of broadband access subscribers, including
MTUs, office parks, and other multi-subscriber locations. Avail's
Frontera ICDs incorporate hardware-based ATM cell switching and Direct
Voice Integration(tm), both of which enable robust Voice over
Broadband services. The ICD allows ICPs to profitably deploy bundled
data/voice/video services with flexible uplinks (DS1, DS3 and OC-3) to
eliminate local-loop distance limitations.
Company:  Convergent Networks
Booth:  626
Contact:  Eric Snow
Phone:  978-323-3300
E-mail:  pr@convergentnet.com
Web:   www.convergentnet.com 
   Founded in 1998, Convergent Networks is the Voice of Broadband
Networking(TM). The exciting telecommunications company designs,
develops and markets carrier-class switching solutions that enable
emerging and incumbent carriers to economically deliver innovative
broadband services to their business and residential customers.
Convergent Networks' Cohesion product family is composed of three
primary elements: the ICS2000(TM) broadband switch, the
ICServiceWorks(TM) service creation softswitch and the ICView(TM)
network management system.
Company: Dynavar Networking Inc.
Booth: 852
Contact: Jenn Rousson
Phone: 416-626-6900 ext. 3300
E-mail: jenn@dynavar.com
Web:  www.dynavar.com 
   As a pioneer in the Internetworking business, Dynavar Networking
is one of the few companies in the world to offer completely
integrated networking services.
   Our core market is the Telecommunications Industry with a focus on
Competitive Local Exchange Carriers (CLECS) within the United States.
Headquartered in Calgary, Dynavar has offices in every major Canadian
city, Seattle, Detroit, Atlanta and Dallas.
   Once we have a clear picture of what your needs are, through an
extensive assessment, we will guarantee speed of delivery, certified
engineers to install and 24 hour support.
   We pride ourselves on providing Best of Breed and Unbiased
solutions.
Company: Dynegy
Booth: 935
Contact: Victor Guzman
Phone: 312-214-1000
E-mail: vguzman@mantiss.com
Web:  www.dynegy.com Dynegy Inc. is an international provider of energy and
communications solutions. The company's leadership position extends
across the entire convergence value chain, from broadband, power
generation and wholesale and retail marketing and trading of power,
gas, coal, emissions allowances, and weather derivatives to
transportation, gathering and processing.
Company:  Elastic Networks
Booth:  819
Contact:  Lorraine Stewart
Phone:  678-297-3100
Web:   www.elastic.com 
   Elastic Networks Inc. (Nasdaq:ELAS), is a leader in innovative,
next-generation last mile IP over Ethernet solutions enabling
telecommunications service providers to easily offer broadband
multimedia applications. Elastic Networks' product portfolio addresses
the high-speed Internet access needs of carrier, enterprise, MDU/MTU,
and hospitality segments. The company's core suite of high-speed
access solutions, the Storm System family of intelligent IP DSL
products, utilizes technology known as EtherLoop(TM). This technology
delivers bi-directional bandwidth up to 6Mbps at distances up to
21,000 feet and beyond over regular copper phone lines. Elastic
Networks portfolio also includes the YesWare software suite that
provides integrated system management and provisioning for both
EtherLoop and Ethernet networks.
Company:  FXI Corporation
Booth:  947
Contact:  Richard Passmore
Phone:  281-985-3131
E-mail:  richardp@fxi.com
Web:   www.fxi.com 
   FXI Corporation has a long tradition of providing nationwide
mission-critical information technology and broadband support
services, using state-of-the-art information platforms designed to
support high volume and transaction-oriented business processes. With
more than 50,000 quality installations in 2000 alone, FXI has
extensive experience in broadband communications deployment, and
provides a wide variety of support services, including customers'
premise installations, maintenance and help desk support, to ILECs,
CLECs and manufacturers. Our quality assurance programs are certified
to the ISO 9002 standards and allow us to efficiently implement and
manage system solutions to a constantly changing environment.
Company:  inc Integrated Network Corporation
Booth:  855
Contact:  Greg More
Phone:  908-218-1600, ext. 3232
E-mail:  moreg@integnet.com
Web:   www.inccorp.com 
   Copper-Linc, inc Integrated Network Corporation's multi-service
access system, supports any service over any protocol over any
transport. This small, low-cost, high density, scaleable system allows
network operators to offer multiple voice and data services over TDM
and packet/cell networks. It includes a common platform supporting
service, transport, and protocol resource modules, system management
software, and integrated access devices. The service modules include
POTS, DDS, ISDN, and xDSL. The transport modules include T1 and SDSL.
The protocol modules include TDM, Ethernet, TR08 and GR303, and will
also support Frame Relay and ATM.
Company:  LightPointe
Booth:  719
Contact:  Jeff Bean
Phone:  858-657-0292 or 858-518-0068 (mobile)
E-mail:  jbean@lightpointe.com
Web:   www.lightpointe.com 
   Founded in 1998, LightPointe designs and manufactures
carrier-class optical transmission equipment using free-space optical
technology that delivers high-speed communications solutions to
service providers faster and more cost-effectively than traditional
fiber-optic cable. LightPointe's carrier-class products are protocol
and topology independent and have been tested in diverse weather
conditions in varied configurations such as rooftop-to-rooftop,
window-to-window, and window-to-rooftop. LightPointe's products are
field-tested and customer deployed with installations in 23 countries,
operating at speeds of 20 Mbps up to 1.25 Gbps at distances up to 2.5
miles at a wavelength of 850 nm.
Company:  Multitude, Inc.
Booth:  955
Contact:  Bret Blount
Phone:  650-616-1857
E-mail:  bret@multitude.com
Web:   www.Multitude.com 
   Multitude, Inc. provides end-to-end, managed services that allow
carriers to offer converged, communications services to their small
and medium business customers. Leveraging Multitude's portfolio of
converged communications applications, carriers can dramatically cut
time-to-market, grow enhanced revenues, increase customer loyalty, and
secure healthy profit margins. Multitude's integrated suite of
solutions leverages both the reliability of the telephone network and
the feature-richness of the Web, creating new and inexpensive ways of
integrating data, voice, and video communications, and enabling user
access via Web interfaces on PCs, PDAs, and wireless phones.
Company: Net to Net Technologies
Booth: 851
Contact: Jamie Wheeler
Phone: 603-427-0600
E-mail: contact@nettonettech.com
Web:   www.nettonettech.com 
   Net to Net Technologies provides easy to use, cost-effective IP
DSL Broadband Access solutions by leveraging the strength of the IP
protocol and the simplicity of Ethernet. Net to Net DSL products
require little or no configuration, allowing for quick installation
without the need for extensive training. Net to Net's native IP DSLAMs
and CPEs provide Data CLECs, ILECs and Service Providers with a truly
plug and play and profitable DSL solution.
Company:  Pliant Systems
Booth:  650
Contact:  Craig Swinn
Phone:  919-405-4340
Web:   www.pliantsystems.com 
   Pliant Systems designs and manufactures integrated multi-service
access platforms for the telecommunications industry. The Pliant 3000
Integrated Access Platform delivers voice, data and video services
over copper or fiber. It can be deployed as a next generation digital
loop carrier, a distributed DLSAM, a multi-service access node or a
single integrated access platform in a convergent network. The Pliant
3000's distributed architecture delivers traditional telephony and
emerging high-bandwidth services deep into the access network.
Company:  (SAIC) Science Applications International Corporation
Booth:  833
Contact:  Terrina Oehler-Venditti or Marcy Campbell
Phone:  877-599-6446
E-mail:  marcy.c.campbell@saic.com
Web:  www.saic.com/telecom
   Introducing RapidApps Solutions from SAIC. RapidApps provides
best-of-breed solutions for Operations Support Systems (OSS) and
Business Support Systems (BSS) in an ASP model. Emerging Carriers can
now "lease" the applications and services that they normally would buy
and maintain with their own financial and human resources. It's
incredibly cost-effective and a powerful competitive winning approach.
   With RapidApps Solutions from SAIC, you're stepping out in front
with a sold ASP partner. SAIC (Science Applications International
Corporation), is a diversified high-technology research and
engineering company founded in 1969 -- a FORTUNE 500 company with over
$5.5 billion in revenues. We have the people and resources to make you
a success.
Company:  StellarRAD Systems
Booth:  951
Contact:  Peder B. Hulse
Phone:  636-625-5888
E-mail:  peder.hulse@stellarrad.com
Web:   www.stellarrad.com 
   StellarRAD Systems is a provider of application software and
Web-based technology solutions. The software applications simplify and
coordinate tasks such as customer care and billing, network equipment,
central office inventory, plant and facilities mapping, etc.
   The Web Development Group serves a diverse industry base including
communications, health/pharmaceuticals, entertainment, and education.
   The company is headquartered in St. Louis, Missouri with offices
in Portland, Maine and Collinsville, Illinois. StellarRAD is a
division of GLA Network Technologies, a telephony consulting and
engineering firm also headquartered in St. Louis.
Company:  Symmetricom
Booth:  954
Contact:  Amy Vea
Phone:  408-428-6901
E-mail:  avea@symmetricom.com
Web:   www.symmetricom.com Symmetricom, The Heartbeat of the Net(TM), is the leading provider
of network equipment and solutions for timing telecommunication
networks with clients in more than 70 countries. The company's timing
and frequency products synchronize the flow of information in today's
high-speed networks. Symmetricom's new broadband access division is
focused on providing high-speed access devices to extend the reach of
ADSL. The company's solutions play a key role in the operation and
quality of service of traditional narrowband voice and data networks
and emerging broadband multimedia communications networks. For more
information, visit Symmetricom online at  www.symmetricom.com .
Company:  Terayon Communication Systems
Booth:  845
Contact:  John Giddings
Phone:  408-486-5223
E-mail:  jgiddings@terayon.com
Web:   www.terayon.com 
   Terayon, founded in 1993, provides broadband systems and solutions
for the delivery of advanced voice, data and video services over
cable, telco and satellite networks. Terayon's systems and solutions
are deployed worldwide by leading cable and telecommunication carriers
to offer telephony services, commercial-grade data services, near
video-on-demand, high-speed Internet access, interactive gaming and
customized programming.
Company:  Verbind, Inc.
Booth:  654
Contact:  Shannon M. Parker
Phone:  781-482-2277
E-mail:  sparker@verbind.com
Web:   www.verbind.com 
   Verbind ( www.verbind.com ) is the leading supplier of behavioral
targeting solutions that drive personalized dialogues from a
comprehensive, unified and actionable customer context. Verbind's
real-time solutions synthesize offline and online customer
interactions, monitor activity and non-activity, and trigger messages
when they are most relevant. Not only are companies able to track when
customer behavioral trends reveal business opportunities and threats,
but they are also able to reach the right customer with the right
message at the right time. Verbind is headquartered Lexington,
Massachusetts.
Company:  Vision Fire and Security
Booth:  751
Contact:  Cathy Carlson
Phone:  800-229-4434 or 781-740-2223
E-mail:  Cathy.Carlson@visionusa.com
Web:   www.vesda.com  and  www.adpro.com.au 
   VESDA...Aspirating Smoke Detection offers the earliest possible
warning of a potential fire! A system that ensures business is never
disrupted, and valuable data is never lost! One that delivers high
performance, without nuisance alarms!
   VESDA is the product chosen by Internet and telecommunication
companies worldwide because reliable performance is crucial to secure
protection of mission-critical infrastructure and assets.
   With today's reliance on the Internet, Vision Fire and Security,
manufacturer of VESDA, have developed models to protect IDCs, NOCs,
ASPs, ISPs and Co-location/Web Hosting Sites.
   VESDA offers a simple, extremely cost effective, Fire Detection
solution.
    CONTACT: Business Wire Trade Show Services
             Jim Liebenau, 310/820-8774
             tradeshow@bizwire.com


12:30 EST FEBRUARY 19, 2001 

Document bwr0000020010710dx2j013lu




 Canadian dollar ends up, breaks 5-day losing streak. 

540 words
19 February 2001
21:49
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

     Bank of Canada: CANADA OPEN  1.5417  PREVIOUS CLOSE 1.5391 

 ------------------------------------------------------------- 

     By Ka Yan Ng 

     TORONTO, Feb 19 (Reuters) - The Canadian dollar ended a 

 five-day losing streak on Monday, but there was little news to 

 account for the move. 

     The currency was mostly unchanged following a weak domestic 

 manufacturing shipments report on Monday, and the U.S. 

 President's Day holiday kept the currency rangebound in "fair" 

 volumes. 

     The Canadian dollar closed at C$1.5345 (65.17 U.S. cents) 

 against C$1.5391 (64.97 U.S. cents) at the previous close. 

     Market players who have not yet taken advantage of the 

 currency's slide in the last two weeks were taking profits on 

 Monday said Steve Demers, director of foreign exchange at 

 National Bank of Canada. 

     "It did bring some Canadian dollar buying in the market," 

 he said. 

     There was a number of theories why the currency 

 strengthened against the U.S. dollar on Monday. Some attributed 

 the rally - lifting it from 10-week lows - to the bounce in 

 Nortel stock after a sharp selloff last week when the world's 

 biggest supplier of fiber-optic network equipment issued a 

profit warning. 

 Others said there was some merger and acquisition flows 

 after the Canadian grocer George Weston Ltd. bought 

 U.S.-based Bestfoods Baking, a unit of Anglo-Dutch conglomerate 

 Unilever Plc . 

 But, the Canadian dollar's fortunes could continue or 

 reverse after new Bank of Canada Governor David Dodge makes his 

 first public address. Dodge will be presenting a speech 

 entitled "Monetary Policy and the Bank of Canada" to the 

 Toronto Board of Trade on Tuesday. 

 "I think the market will be very sensitive to his comments 

 tomorrow, especially with the currency weakening like it has 

 been in the last two weeks," said Demers. 

 He said he wasn't sure if the market should expect any 

 insight on the currency given that the governor deflected 

 questions on the Canadian dollar during the monetary policy 

 update earlier this month. 

 Shipments by Canadian manufacturers declined in December, 

 and November's numbers were revised to show a fall, adding to 

 the likelihood of an interest rate cut by the Bank of Canada on 

 March 6. 

 Statistics Canada said on Monday the shipments fell 0.8 

 percent, unfilled orders fell by 0.6 percent and new orders by 

 1.2 percent. In each case the drops were worse than analysts 

 had expected. They had forecast falls of 0.7 percent in 

 shipments, 0.1 percent in unfilled orders and 0.8 percent in 

 new orders. Excluding the automotive sector, shipments still 

 fell by 0.4 percent in December. 

 "Today's release...was chock full of evidence that Canada's 

 heavily exposed manufacturing sector is starting to bear the 

 brunt of the economic slowdown that is under way in the United 

 States," Toronto-Dominion Bank said in a commentary. 

 In cross-trading against major currencies, the Canadian 

 dollar was at 75.61 yen compared with 75.12 at the 

 previous session's close, and at C$1.4139 against the euro 

  versus C$1.4092. The Canadian dollar was at A$1.2271 

  against the Australian dollar versus A$1.2273. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2j04wh0




 Eurostocks fall as telecoms hit, cyclicals shine. 

 By Huw Jones 
417 words
19 February 2001
19:51
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, Feb 19 (Reuters) - European shares eased on Monday as telecoms sank to two-year lows amid ongoing worries about debt, but old economy stalwarts steel, oils and chemicals, along with defensive pharmaceuticals helped limit much of the pain. 

 The Eurotop 300 ended off 0.4 percent at 1,474.05 points, its weakest close since Jan 6 last year. Advancing and declining issues were evenly matched. The Euro Stoxx 50 ended little changed at 4,516.31 points. 

 But with Wall Street closed in observance of Presidents Day, volumes were thin, though the growing shift into cyclicals was much in evidence as some investors and analysts bet on an economic upturn later in the year. 

 The pullback in telecoms and techs continued from Friday when the tech-rich Nasdaq Composite index slumped 5 percent after a surprise profit warning from Nortel Networks Corp. , the world's top supplier of fibre-optic equipment to telecom companies. 

 "Last week's technology stock performance on both sides of the Atlantic suggests that there is still downside risk, and that the market still has an appetite for bad news," BNP Paribas analyst Patrick Shields said. 

 Nortel's fallout was still felt on Monday, with arch-rival Alcatel of France down 3.4 percent, making it Europe's top blue-chip decliner. 

 Mobile phone and fixed line companies fell as investors still worried about the debts the firms face after buying third-generation mobile licences. 

 France Telecom fell 1.6 percent to a new low for the year. Vodafone Group shed 3.1 percent and hit a two-year low on added concern its sale of Italian telecoms group Infostrada may collapse. 

 But Deutsche Telekom rose 1.9 percent, bouncing from two-year lows on hopes it will sell assets to cut debt. Telekom's gains helped the German DAX to close up 0.5 percent at 6,472.21 points. ???l, other techs that supply equipment to telecoms weakened on fears that demand for their products from debt-saddled t???oms will fall. 

 Marconi , Ericsson , Siemens and Nokia all fell about 2 percent or more.???ent and 10 percent this year after being the worst performers in 2000. 

 But not all analysts are gloomy about techs. 

 "For the first time in almost two years, European tech is not trading at a premium to its U.S. counterpart," Deutsche Bank said. The bank remained underweight in European techs, but - zzr - zzr. 

 . 

Document lba0000020010713dx2j04vla




 Alcatel confident of meeting forecast. 

350 words
19 February 2001
06:31
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 SINGAPORE, Feb 19 (Reuters) - French telecoms equipment maker Alcatel is confident it will meet its own sales forecast for 2001 despite a slowdown in the U.S. economy, Chairman Serge Tchuruk said on Monday. 

 Alcatel, whose shares were hit last week after Nortel Networks Corp slashed its 2001 revenue estimate by half and warned of a first quarter loss, forecast 25 percent sales growth in the first quarter and 20 to 25 percent for 2001. 

 Tchuruk, who was in Singapore for Alcatel's chairman council meeting, told a news conference the numbers were achieveable. 

 "Among the larger ones (telcos), we seem to be the only one not to have a profit warning...we seem to have done better than many of the competitors," he said. 

 Tchuruk said Alcatel's strategy of focusing on research and development and high growth value had been correct. 

 He reiterated what the firm, which makes fixed and wireless networks, fibre optic cables and mobile handsets, had said last week that there was no reason for a revision unless there was a further deterioration in global economies. 

 Tchuruk said the United States accounted for only one-quarter of the group's revenue last year, while Europe contributed 52 percent and the Asia-Pacific region made up about nine percent. 

 He said a good revenue mix in terms of geography, customers and product portfolios helped protect its targets. 

 On the Asia-Pacific front, Tchuruk said Alcatel's sales growth in 2001 would be at least double the market's growth, which was estimated at around 15 to 20 percent. 

 He said telecoms equipment for fast Internet access and data networks were among the fastest growing segments in the region. 

 "Today, we see much safer ground for growth in Europe and Asia than in the United States," he added. 

 In the longer-term, Tchuruk said the Asia-Pacific region's revenue contribution to the group was expected to rise to 20 percent and that of the U.S. to 30 percent, while Europe's contribution was expected to decline to about 40 percent. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2j04vdq




 Nortel's Roth defends records, says he's sticking around by Stefanie Batcho 

631 words
19 February 2001
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2001) 

 TORONTO, Feb 19 (AFP) - Nortel Networks President and CEO John Roth, facing harsh criticism for his firm's surprise profit warning last week, defended his record here Monday, saying the firm has nearly quadrupled earnings under his leadership. 

 Roth said Nortel Networks -- which announced Thursday that it was slashing profit expectations by 20 percent and reducing its workforce by 10,000 employees in 2001 because of a fast-paced US downturn -- was well positioned to weather the US economic storm. 

 "We'll come out of this downturn as a stronger company than we went into it," Roth told a packed business luncheon here. 

 The firm said last week it anticipates that year-on-year growth in revenues and in earnings per share in 2001 will be 15 percent and 10 percent, respectively. 

 The day after Nortel announced its warning and the additional job cuts -- 6,000 more than previous job cut estimates given in late January -- stock markets in Frankfurt, London, New York, Paris, Toronto and Tokyo took a tumble. 

 On the Toronto Stock Exchange, Nortel slipped 15.15 to 31 dollars (20.15 US) per share on Friday, dropping about one third of its value in one day and establishing a new 52-week low. The company makes up nearly 21 percent of the TSE 300, which shot down 574.04 points, or 6.4 percent, to 8,393.23 the day after the news broke. 

 Analysts were quick to question Roth's ability to lead the firm after the announcement, citing his swift about-face from a rosy 2001 forecast given in late January to last week's news that revenues and earnings would be significantly lower. 

 Roth stressed Monday that, under his leadership, investors have seen "15 straight quarters where we've met or beat (our) guidance. 

 "Unfortunately, this will be the first quarter where I will not meet (our original) guidance," he added. 

 But he made no apologies for the sell-off around the globe that followed Nortel's news, saying "we do not really control what the stock markets do." 

 "Now the job of CEO is really to guide a company so that it outperforms the market segment that it serves," Roth said. 

 "I must say that what I set out to do four years ago, I've largely achieved. ... Nortel is the world leader in telecom infrastructure," he stressed. 

 Roth said that, since he took the CEO position in 1997, annual revenues have jumped from 15.7 billion US to 30.3 billion US last year, and the company's rate of return rose from 4.3 percent to 7.6 in the same period. 

 "So if you took that together, we've almost quadrupled our earnings over that time," he said. 

 "The board has asked me to stick around until about this time next year," he told the business audience, adding that he intends to stay in the Nortel picture. 

 Shortly after ending his 20-minute speech, he darted off, refusing to take questions from reporters. 

 Mike Steadman, CEO of Toronto-based Global Installers Network, a Nortel supplier, said Roth's speech hit the mark and added that questions about his credibility were off base. 

 "I think he's done a good job, (and) I don't think he would mislead anyone," Steadman said. 

 Lawrence Surtees, an analyst at IT research firm IDC Canada, disagreed, saying Roth offered little explanation, particularly about which US customers were dropping orders for Nortel equipment. 

 "Who are they? ... Where's the news releases from Qwest, from MCI, from AT and T, from Sprint that they are canning multiyear contracts?" he questioned. 

 "I think they (Nortel) need to come clear with that," Surtees added. 

 sba/ejp 

Document afpr000020010709dx2j017h0




 Singapore shares close 1.2 percent lower 

264 words
19 February 2001
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2001) 

 SINGAPORE, Feb 19 (AFP) - Singapore share prices closed 1.2 percent lower Monday following the decline in US stocks at the end of last week, dealers said. 

 The Straits Times Index fell 23.55 points to 1,948.01. 

 "The market took its cue from the US. Local technology stocks reacted to the fall in the Nasdaq," a dealer with a local brokerage said. 

 The tech-heavy Nasdaq fell 5.0 percent Friday to close at 2,425.38 after a profit warning from Nortel Networks, Dell Computer and Hewlett Packard sent tech shares plunging. 

 In the broader market, the All Singapore Equities Index dropped 5.12 points to 501.22. 

 There were more 194 losers, 72 gainers and 297 issues were unchanged. 

 Volume traded tumbled to 252.52 million shares worth 360.40 million Singapore dollars (207 million US) from 321.80 million shares valued at 559.00 million Singapore dollars on Friday. 

 Among the gainers were SembCorp Logistics which closed 10 cents higher at 7.60 dollars and Overseas Union Bank which gained five cents to 8.10 dollars. 

 Venture Manufacturing led the fall in technology stocks, skidding 1.2 dollars, or 7.2 percent, to 15.50. Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing was down 25 cents at 5.85. 

 DBS Group Holdings lost 30 cents to 19.00 dollars and Oversea- Chinese Banking Corp. Ltd. fell 30 cents to 12.90. 

 Singapore Telecommunications, which announced a one billion Singapore dollar bond issue after the end of trade, closed one cent lower at 2.75. 

 mba/bro 

Document afpr000020010709dx2j016t9




Air New Zealand Limited (NS); HY TO 31/12 $3.781m ($127.234m)-97% DIV 4CPS  Air New Zealand Limited (NS);   

2,108 words
19 February 2001
20:01
New Zealand Exchange Company Announcements
NZXCOM
English
Copyright (c) 2001 New Zealand Exchange Ltd (  http://www.nzx.com)   

CONSOLIDATED OPERATING STATEMENT FOR THE HALF YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2000 Unaudited (NZ$?000) Current Previous Period Corresponding Period OPERATING REVENUE Sales revenue 3,227,436 1,304,377 Other revenue 1,084,053 499,544 Total Operating Revenue 4,311,489 1,803,921 OPERATING SURPLUS (DEFICIT) BEFORE UNUSUAL ITEMS AND TAX (1,110) 76,750 Unusual items before tax (31,780) 50,197 OPERATING SURPLUS (DEFICIT) BEFORE TAX (32,890) 126,947 Less tax on operating surplus 29,472 (51,601) Operating surplus (deficit) after tax but before minority interest (3,418) 75,346 Deferred tax arising on accounting policy change 0 0 Less minority interests 0 (11) Equity earnings 7,199 51,899 OPERATING SURPLUS (DEFICIT) AFTER TAX ATTRIBUTABLE TO MEMBERS OF LISTED ISSUER 3,781 127,234 Extraordinary items after tax 0 0 Less minority interests 0 0 Extraordinary items after tax attributable to members of the Listed Issuer 0 0 TOTAL OPERATING SURPLUS (DEFICIT) AND EXTRAORDINARY ITEMS AFTER TAX 3,781 127,245    

Operating Surplus (Deficit) and Extraordinary Items after Tax attributable to Minority Interest 0 (11) Operating Surplus (Deficit) and Extraordinary Items after Tax attributable to Members of the Listed Issuer 3,781 127,234 EPS - Basic 0.6c 22.4c SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY ATTRIBUTABLE TO MEMBERS OF THE HOLDING COMPANY 1,900,772 2,234,191 The Directors have declared an unimputed dividend of 4cps (6c unimputed). The dividend will be payable on Friday 30/03/01 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on Friday 16/03/01.  Air NZ has presented results of the first 6 months of operations following the full acquisition and consolidation of  Ansett Australia into the Group on 23 June last year. The Group has reported a profit after tax and equity earnings of $3.8m ($127.2m ) for the 6 months ended 31/12/00. As foreshadowed by the Directors in their statement on Friday, 01/11/00, the first half result was disappointing and significantly below the result for the first-half of last year . At that time, the Directors noted the impact of significantly increased competition in the Australian domestic market, and depressed demand for domestic travel in Australia during the Olympic Games period. This, along with intensifying pressures from fuel prices rises and adverse foreign exchange movements led to the profit warning. Performance tracking was and continues to be complicated by the process of integrating Ansett and  Air NZ accounting and management reporting systems and policies. The factors previously noted by the Directors, together with associated increases in depreciation, lease rental and interest charges, resulted in a Group pre-tax trading loss (excluding unusual charges and contributions from associates) of $1.1m. Tax for the half-year was a credit of $29.5m (expense $51.6m) There were unusual charges after tax of $21.0m primarily related to Olympic sponsorship costs, and an equity-accounted contribution after tax of $7.2m ($51.9m) primarily from  Ansett International, in which the Group has a 49% interest. This result reflected a very disappointing operational performance - worsened by higher fuel prices and forex costs. Operating Environment: The current period has been one of the most challenging periods faced by  Air NZ and Ansett. The trading performance of the Group was impacted significantly by: Fuel prices at ten year highs; NZ and Australian dollars at all time lows against the United Stated dollar; Increased competition in the Australian market with the introduction of two new low cost airlines and significant additions to capacity on Australian main trunk, trans-Tasman, and Pacific routes by major international competitors; The introduction of GST into Australia, impacting the spending patterns of Australian consumers; and The Sydney 2000 Olympics causing a drop in demand for Australian domestic services that out-stripped gains from increased in-bound international traffic during the Games period. During the early months of the half-year tourism growth from international markets was encouraging with higher traffic and yield due to the Olympics. However, this growth was not sustained in the second quarter. Operational Performance: Total operating revenue for the half year was $4,311.5 million with overall Group yield of 17.5 cents per RPK and seat factor at 73.2 %. The total cost of jet fuel across the Group (excluding  Ansett International) amounted to $629.9 million. The average price paid per US gallon of jet fuel (after hedging) increased from US 73 cents in the corresponding half last year to US 95 cents during the first half. Fuel hedging gains for the half year amounted to US$27.8 million (10 cents per gallon). Depreciation of the New Zealand and Australian currencies to the US dollar further impacted total fuel cost. Consumption over the same period increased by 6.8%. With some 38% of the Group's costs denominated in US dollars, the decline in the New Zealand and Australian currencies during the half-year had a material impact on group profitability despite currency hedging gains of $47.6 million. Cost per ASK for the Group totalled 14.8 cents. Excluding the increase in fuel costs and net negative foreign exchange movements, cost per ASK amounted to 13.7 cents. Australasian operations: The Group's passenger and cargo revenue from Australasian operations totalled $2,490.8 million. Load factors on these services declined to 72.1% (73.4%) following a 7.0% increase in available capacity (ASKs). The Australian domestic market was particularly competitive and was impacted by significant increases in capacity by competitors including the entry of two low cost airlines. Domestic passenger demand was also affected by the Olympics and implementation of the Goods and Services Tax, with resultant negative impacts on yield. Total seat capacity flown by Ansett domestic airlines increased by 2.2%, with load factors being largely stable at 74.2% (74.9%). The New Zealand domestic airline business performed strongly, consolidating its position in the New Zealand market. Total seat capacity grew by 7.0% with load factors of 65.7%. Higher load factors in the corresponding period last year (70.5%) were directly attributable to the industrial dispute at the Group's major New Zealand competitor. If the estimated impact of the strike experienced last year by this competitor is excluded, the New Zealand domestic airline business yield also improved. Trans-Tasman performance was affected by increased price competition and the introduction of additional capacity the Group's major competitor. However, load factors were held at 69.0% (70.0%). International operations: Air New Zealand International, excluding trans-Tasman, registered improved yield, reflecting foreign exchange benefits and local yield improvement. Capacity was 5.6% higher than the same period last year with load factor at 74.7% (70.7%). Load factors increased on the Pacific and Atlantic routes and were relatively stable on Asian routes. Overall seat capacity operated by  Ansett International reduced by 2.8% with a reduction in capacity to Fiji partially offset by Melbourne - Hong Kong services launched in November 2000. Load factors declined to 72.1% (74.4%) as a direct result of the situation in Fiji, together with lower Australian outbound demand during the Olympics. Financial: Cash flows from operations totalled $189.1 million ($157.9 million). Higher net interest costs of $115.7 million ($31.4 million) were primarily due to the financing of the acquisition of Ansett with proceeds from the rights issue only being received near the end of the half year. Operating lease costs increased to $217.0 million ($119.9 million) due to the consolidation of Ansett, two additional leased B737-300s and exchange rate impacts. Tax for the half-year was a credit of $29.5 million (expense $51.6 million), partly due to permanent differences between the accounting and tax treatment of aircraft financings. Capital expenditure during the period was $225.0 million mainly relating to the purchase of CRJ-200 aircraft at  Kendell Airlines. The Group's book gearing ratio decreased to 62.3% (30 June 2000 - 66.2%) following the funding received from the rights issue during the period. The ratio after capitalisation of aircraft operating leases (at seven times the lease rental expense) was 76.5% (30 June 2000 - 75.7%), which is higher than the Group's target gearing. Fleet Management: In the six months to 31 December 2000, three additional aircraft were introduced to the Group fleet (1 x B767-300, 1 x B737-300, 1 x CRJ-200). These were part of previously announced fleet replacement initiatives. Over the remainder of this year, three additional B737-300s and four additional CRJ-200's will join the fleet, completing the  Air New Zealand domestic main trunk and  Kendell Airlines current fleet upgrade programmes.  Air New Zealand also recently announced it would purchase 16 new Beech 1900D aircraft to replace Metroliners and Embraer Bandeirantes that currently service provincial New Zealand. The aircraft will further enhance the services  Air New Zealand provides to smaller but important ports on the network and complement the product improvements offered on trunk routes. Attention will now turn to a programme to modernise the Ansett fleet. Integration: The integration of  Air New Zealand and Ansett progressed during the half-year at a slower pace than anticipated and savings to date have not met initial expectations. In addition, it is expected that the competitive nature of the market will continue to restrict revenue-based integration improvements.  Hazelton Airlines:  Ansett Australia remains committed to the acquisition of  Hazelton Airlines and is continuing to explore options for satisfying ACCC requirements. Ensuring that feeder traffic from  Hazelton Airlines continues to be directed to the Ansett network and on-going commitment to regional services in Australia is an important part of Group strategy.  Singapore Airlines: During the period  Air New Zealand welcomed  Singapore Airlines as a 25% shareholder and the experience Directors from that company bring to the Air New Zealand Board. Significant potential exists for  Air New Zealand/Ansett and  Singapore Airlines to work together to leverage opportunities across both airlines. Key personnel have been allocated by both airlines to explore and pursue all areas of possible co-operation, including network, product and aircraft. Outlook: Based on current trading and market conditions, the outlook for the second half is uncertain and there is potential for further deterioration in operating results in the short-term. However, the final result for the year could be improved if a number of previously identified one-off asset sales are consummated before 30 June 2001. Since taking up his appointment as Chief Executive Officer on 3 January 2001, Mr Gary Toomey and his new management team have been developing a profit enhancement programme aimed at significantly improving the levels of efficiency and productivity, maximising all sources of revenue and closely managing costs. It will, of course, take time for these initiatives to be reflected in profits. The Board has endorsed a reorganisation of management of the Group from a business unit structure to one of functional units. This change will enhance the management team's ability to accelerate the flow of integration benefits by eliminating unnecessary duplication and extracting scale and synergy benefits from the expanded  Air New Zealand -  Ansett Australia Group. Priority is also being given to integrating the  Air New Zealand and Ansett accounting and management reporting systems to enable production of more accurate and timely information on the Group's operations. Steps are being taken to address operating capacity deficiencies and the deterioration in market share on key routes in Australia. Programmes are also being introduced to improve fleet utilisation and to manage the Group's domestic and international networks on a more effective, integrated basis. In respect of longer term strategy, plans are being developed in the areas of future fleet requirements, growth opportunities, product improvements, brand positioning, total customer service levels and alliance arrangements. A cornerstone of future strategy will be a focus on the overall financial management of the Group, including balance sheet structure, funding, performance management and establishment of financial hurdles for evaluation of expected returns from incremental investments in the business. The fundamental building blocks are being put in place to deliver over the medium term a markedly improved profit performance and the creation of shareholder value. The strength of our brands, the size of our operations and the quality of our service along with key alliance partnerships, gives us the opportunity to build an overall network and customer offering to position us as a strong and competitive global airline.    

Document NZXCOM0020070303dx2j00auj


Gaining control: PacifiCare beyond medicare

Vita Reed   
1,579 words
19 February 2001
Orange County Business Journal
OCBJ
1
Volume 24; Issue 8; ISSN: 10517480
English
© 2001 Orange County Business Journal. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All Rights Reserved.   

Howard Phanstiel will have to contend with a lot of things beyond his control as he looks to reinvent Santa Ana-based PacifiCare Health Systems Inc.

But, so far, the healthcare insurer's new president and chief executive is getting plaudits from Wall Street for how he's dealing with what he can control.

PacifiCare's stock, which bottomed out at around 10 in late October, has surged. Last week, it was trading at about 35-or back to where it was before Oct. 10, when PacifiCare warned that higher costs were eating into profits. As of last week, PacifiCare counted a market capitalization of $1.3 billion, up from $345 million on Nov. 1.

The company got a big boost earlier this month after reporting better than expected fourth-quarter profits. And Phanstiel has laid out plans to augment PacifiCare's core health maintenance organization business. In the works: a preferred-provider organization, a Medicare supplemental insurance offering and expanding the reach and breadth of its pharmacy benefit management subsidiary.

The moves are designed to cut PacifiCare's reliance on Medicare, which may or may not see additional funding from Congress. The company also is looking to better compete with rivals, which have gained subscribers-and bolstered profits-- by offering a variety of products and services.

Phanstiel, who previously served as PacifiCare's chief financial officer, is looking to expand into new areas not traditionally covered by health insurance. Those could encompass services that help senior citizens live at home independently, and "lifestyle" items such as laser eye surgery, teeth whitening, cosmetic procedures, sexual dysfunction treatments and sports medicine. 

"We want to expand the company's offerings to become a leading health and consumer services organization," Phanstiel said.

Phanstiel's plan to broaden the company beyond its core Medicare business into a more diversified insurer gets good marks from one analyst.

"Howie's done a fabulous job getting his hands around a very troubled situation," said Todd Richter of Banc of America Securities. "Howie knows that the company must dramatically decrease its dependence on Medicare."

Still, PacifiCare's near-term future stands to be driven more by what the government does with Medicare, particularly in terms of reimbursement changes and a prescription drug benefit, according to Richter. He said he hasn't changed his cautious outlook on PacifiCare in the near term because "a lot of things are out of Howie's control."

For now, PacifiCare derives most of its profits from Medicare. "If the government cuts reimbursement, I don't care how good (Phanstiel is), they're going to have problems," Richter said.

Phanstiel said he recognizes the uncertainty surrounding Medicare and the uneasiness that creates with investors.

"Wall Street does not place a high multiple on the Medicare business, which represents 60% of our profits and balance sheet," he said. "There is simply not a clear line of sight in regard to stability of federal funding in the Medicare Plus Choice program."

A result of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, Medicare Plus Choice gives seniors options in how they receive government-backed healthcare, including through PacifiCare and other HMOs.

Phanstiel said tie teels the government must find a more stable source of funding for Medicare HMOs. But he's not betting on it. If that doesn't happen, he said, "We've got to be positioned to disengage from the Medicare Plus Choice program."

But Phanstiel said he thinks the Bush administration is "much more favorably disposed toward Medicare Plus Choice" and would like to see the private sector play a greater role in delivering traditional, fee-for-service Medicare.

"Given that we have a more civil tone in Washington and a more moderate climate, we're excited about the possibilities," he said. "But you won't see that reflected in our share price until legislation gets enacted, hopefully in 2001 or 2002."

Meanwhile, Prudential Securities Inc. analyst David Shove-who downgraded PacifiCare about a week before its October profit warning-upgraded the company's stock from hold to a strong buy earlier this month. Shove wrote his decision was "based on the excellent fourth-quarter results, the apparent progress being made in the turnaround and the new strategy outlined by management."

PacifiCare's fourth-quarter earnings of 35 cents per share after a restructuring charge easily beat the consensus of 20 cents a share, Shove wrote.

"The quarter is best characterized by demonstrating that the problems at the company are lessening and earnings visibility is improving," he said.

Shove's report noted that PacifiCare's premium increases were exceeding expectations and medical costs were appearing to stabilize. "We expect that the aggressive pricing and market exits will improve margins sharply in 2001."

PacifiCare has said it expects its commercial HMO pricing to go up between 10% and 25% this year, with an average increase of 13%. Additionally, it has frozen some enrollment in its Secure Horizons Medicare HMO.

Phanstiel came to PacifiCare from ARV Assisted Living Inc. of Costa Mesa, where he was chairman and chief executive. The Syracuse University alumnus was named acting president and chief executive in October, after Robert O'Leary resigned. The board affirmed Phanstiel in December.

At the time of his departure, O'Leary and analysts said PacifiCare needed a leader with a managed healthcare service background. Phanstiel's resume includes a stint as executive vice president of finance and information services for Thousand Oaks-based WellPoint Health Networks Inc., owner of Blue Cross of California.

Phanstiel joined PacifiCare at a time of turmoil for the company, which grew rapidly during the 1990s. PacifiCare's growth included 1997's merger with rival FHP International Corp.

In October, PacifiCare and other HMOs had a well-publicized falling out with Orange-- based St. Joseph Health System (see story below) over contract rates and the sharing of insurance risks.

At about the same time, former chief executive O'Leary surprised analysts by announcing that PacifiCare might break even or report a loss of up to 10 cents for the quarter ended Sept. 30. The company attributed the grim projection to a mix of lower Medicare reimbursements and higher healthcare costs. PacifiCare eventually reported earnings of 15 cents a share for that quarter.

"In California, we've had a rather dramatic shift in our provider networks from what we call capitation to shared-risk," Phanstiel said. "That has caused instability in our healthcare costs, which we are making progress in managing, but that's what fundamentally caused the earnings surprise."

In 1999, most of PacifiCare's commercial HMO members were covered under contracts that gave hospitals set amounts of money per patient per month for treatment-known as capitation. With those models, hospital officials accepted the financial risk of actual healthcare costs being higher than the allotted payments.

By contrast, PacifiCare shoulders more financial responsibility when its members' healthcare costs increase under shared-risk arrangements. That shift came about in part because hospitals and doctors' groups were complaining about not getting enough money from the HMOs and threatening to cancel their contracts-but it also happened at a time when both costs and members' hospital usage grew.

PacifiCare isn't totally stepping away from capitation even though it's jumping into the shared-risk market. Phanstiel said approximately 35 % of the company's California membership now is covered under full-risk arrangements.

Capitation isn't for every hospital or doctors' group, Phanstiel said, noting that it doesn't work for providers that don't have the ability to manage risk.

"On the other hand, particularly with the right price point, capitation can work very well," he said.

PacifiCare has taken other steps besides the contract changeovers and the Medicare enrollment freezes. In December, the company laid off 550 employees, or about 6% of its workforce, mainly in administrative and regional HMO operations positions.

"First of all, you never look forward to having to implement layoffs, particularly when you're letting go some very good people who have worked hard to do their job well," Phanstiel said. "But I think we have to look at the situation from the standpoint that we have a fiduciary responsibility to the 4 million members and 8,000 other employees. By taking timely action today, which resulted in roughly a 6% reduction in our workforce and a 10% reduction in our officer corps, we've been able to stabilize our balance sheet and profitability so that we're positioned for growth in the future." 

"Our expectation is that we would lose a considerable number of members as a result of those contracting actions, despite our best efforts to transition members to alternative delivery of care systems," he said. "We're actually finding that our retention rate was much higher than we expected it to be and I think in the fullness of time, we'll even bring back more of the members that we may have lost initially."

Phanstiel told analysits that PacifiCare anticipated that its company-wide membership would be reduced by 500,000 because of exits rfom "unprofitable businesses" and a freeze on some enrollment in its Secure Horizons medicare HOM program.

St. Joseph remains a partner for PacifiCare's prefered-provider organization, Phanstiel said.

Copyright CBJ, L. P. Feb 19-Feb 25, 2001

Document ocbj000020010712dx2j0005w




 Technology 
 Dell's Shares  Decline  After  Warning  on  Profit  --- Computer Maker Cuts Staff for First Time --- Flat Net Income Predicted 

 By Gary McWilliams 
Staff Reporter
518 words
19 February 2001
The Asian Wall Street Journal
AWSJ
N2
English
 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Dell Computer Corp. warned that its fiscal first-quarter results will fall short of expectations, as the computer maker unveiled its first job cuts ever and reported flat fiscal fourth-quarter earnings. 

 "As we look at all the indicators right now, we just need to be very cautious," said James M. Schneider, Dell's chief financial officer. 

 That news combined with other bad news about technology sector earnings and appeared to rattle investors. The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 127.53 points or 5%, Friday, to 2425.38. In 4 p.m. trading Friday, Dell shares declined 6%, or $1.50, to $23.50. 

 Mr. Schneider said operating profit for the fiscal first quarter ending May 4 would be about 17 cents a share, two cents a share less than the consensus estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. Revenue will rise 10% to about $8 billion from $7.28 billion in the year-earlier first quarter, he said, but will be less than the projections of Wall Street analysts. 

 Several analysts said they expect Dell to post a flat profit for the year, with revenue rising 10% to 12%. Late last year, Dell forecast a sales rise of 20% for this year, with earnings rising faster than sales. Mr. Schneider declined to forecast sales for the year in a conference call Thursday. 

 The Round Rock, Texas, computer maker said it is dismissing 1,700 employees, confirming a move intended to offset the profit erosion caused by sharp price cuts on its products. The 4% staff reduction resulted in one-time charge of $105 million, or two cents a share, against the fourth-quarter earnings. 

 Net income for the fourth quarter ended Feb. 2 slid to $434 million, or 16 cents a diluted share, including the one-time item, from $436 million, or 16 cents a share, a year earlier. Last year's profit included an acquisition-related charge of $194 million, or two cents a share. 

 The flat earnings demonstrated that Dell's vaunted ability to reduce prices and simultaneously raise profit and sales isn't working amid the softest personal-computer market yet recorded. Excluding the two-cent-a-share item, its fourth-quarter profit was a penny a share less than Wall Street's recently trimmed estimate of 19 cents a share, and well below the 25 cents a share analysts expected a month ago. 

 Dell Vice Chairman Kevin B. Rollins said the company isn't letting up on its aggressive pricing. Gross margin, or profit after the cost to make its goods, shrank more than three percentage points to 18% of revenue from the third quarter. Even after the layoffs and projected component cost reductions, the company doesn't expect its operating margins to increase from the fourth quarter, he said. 

 "We have seen an opportunity to get more aggressive," Mr. Rollins said. "We are in an environment that may keep us in that mode for a while." 

Document awsj000020010710dx2j0021k




 Gypsum may scuttle Hardie. 

 By Belinda Tasker. 
521 words
17 February 2001
Courier Mail
COUMAI
67
English
(c) 2001 Queensland Newspapers Pty Ltd

 BUILDING products group James Hardie's fortunes are set to worsen with full year profit expected to plunge by up to 43 ercent as declining gypsum prices continue to take their toll. Chief executive Peter Macdonald said yesterday full-year operating profit before abnormals was expected to dive to between $90 to $95 million from $158.5 million the previous year. While gypsum wallboard prices had recently risen to about $US85 ($A157) a thousand sq ft, it was too early to tell if they could be sustained for the rest of the year, he said. "Overall, directors expect to achieve a full year operating profit before abnormal items of between $A90-$95 million, provided that gypsum prices do not fall below the current price level of about $US85 a thousand sq ft in the fourth quarter," he said. The group will also be hit by a $238 million charge relating to a new foundation to compensate legitimate sufferers of asbestos-related diseases. 

  The foundation effectively resolves the company's asbestos liability which has dragged for 20 years. The profit warning came as the group reported net profit dived 62 percent to $43.8 million for the nine months to December 31, down from $114.1 million a year earlier. Sales, however, rose 11 percent to $1.189 billion. For the third quarter, net profit fell to $13.8 million from $46.3 million. The troubled US-based gypsum division was the major drag on profit, with sales down 6 percent in the nine-month period and earnings before interest and tax 48 percent lower. The division was hit by a 44 percent slide in wallboard prices, a spike in energy costs during the colder-than-expected US winter and a drop in demand from builders buying their products due to the freezing weather. Mr Macdonald described the gypsum result as "plainly unsatisfactory". "There's still significant overcapacity in the industry but there's starting to be a sense of very cautious optimism that perhaps the bottom was seen in the third quarter and some price rises are in place," he said. Analysts said the profit result was worse than expected, with some returning to the drawing board to downgrade the full year result for this year and 2002. "Operationally, there wasn't anything to get excited about and they didn't make any bullish comments about the medium term outlook either," ABN Amro's building materials analyst Nathan Field said. Some also suggested that the group's new asbestos foundation - Medical Research and Compensation Foundation - could be seen as the company "tidying up" its exposure to litigation in case it received a takeover offer. The disappointing performance in gypsum took the shine off the group's US fibre cement business which boosted sales by 42 percent and earnings before interest and tax by 14 percent despite a drop in housing starts. In Australia, the housing downturn caused fibre cement sales to fall 6 percent while EBIT rose 24 percent thanks to lower manufacturing costs. James Hardie shares yesterday closed 17 higher at $3.80. 

Document coumai0020010710dx2h009x6




 Canadian bonds end four-day losing streak. 

 By Ka Yan Ng 
671 words
16 February 2001
21:43
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 TORONTO, Feb 16 (Reuters) - Canadian bonds erased early losses and rallied on Friday afternoon to end a four-day losing streak on a combination of weak U.S. consumer confidence data and a flight to quality in the wake of an equity meltdown on the Toronto Stock Exchange. 

 Canadian bonds seesawed through the session, opening higher supported by a shock profit warning from Nortel Networks Corp. , but then falling on the back of some surprisingly robust U.S. economic data. They subsequently reversed direction after weak consumer confidence data was released, continued crumbling in equity markets and news of a U.S-led bombing of Baghdad. 

 "I think the bond market is rallying like mad like there's no tomorrow. It had been through a weak spell as well, given the fact that the market was gradually pricing out aggressive steps by the Fed," said one market watcher. 

 Shorter-dated maturities spiked higher on renewed hope the U.S. Federal Reserve may have to cut rates aggressively in the wake of a key report that showed consumer confidence had fallen to its lowest level since 1993. Canada's two-year bond was up 12 Canadian cents at C$101.71 to yield 4.977 percent. 

 The Canadian benchmark long bond, due 2029, rose 30 Canadian cents to C$100.65 to yield 5.703 percent. 

 In the U.S., the 30-year treasury bond was up 13/32 to yield 5.463 percent. The yield spread between the Canadian and U.S. 30-year bonds remained at 24 basis points. 

 Michigan's preliminary February consumer sentiment index slipped to 87.8, a level not seen since November 1993, from a final January reading of 94.7. 

 The report is closely watched as the Fed has repeatedly said rekindling sagging consumer and business confidence is key to preventing the U.S. slowdown from slipping into recession. 

 FLIGHT TO SAFETY AFTER BAGHDAD BOMBINGS 

 Canadian bonds substantially underperformed their U.S. counterparts, which rallied on news of the bombing of Baghdad. 

 The U.S. Defense Department confirmed air strikes by U.S. and British warplanes on targets south of Baghdad. A Defense Department official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said coalition aircraft struck radar systems in retaliation for increased Iraqi targeting of Western aircraft in the southern no-fly zones. 

 Investors fled equity markets for the "safe haven" of the bond market on the uncertainty created by the bombing campaign. 

 "It just reinforces the flight to safety that you see from the weakness in equities, it just adds to the mix," said Mario Angastiniotis, senior economist at Standard & Poor's MMS. "It increases uncertainty about the reaction to this event and basically puts everybody on hold." 

 Money had already been flowing into the bond market from equities following Nortel's profit warning after the market close on Thursday sent the Toronto Stock Exchange down 574 points on Friday, while U.S. equity markets also fell on gloomy profit forecasts for high tech companies. 

 Earlier, U.S. economic news softened bond prices. Wholesale prices jumped by 1.1 percent, much more than the 0.3 percent rise economists had expected and the 0.2 percent gain in December. 

 Housing starts were also surprisingly robust in the U.S., climbing 5.3 percent in January - a nine-month high - following a 0.3 percent gain in December. 

 "What we got this morning was on the strong side, but if you look through it, it doesn't really mean that much for demand later this year. It's still quite soft," said Mark Chandler, senior economist at Goldman Sachs. 

 The yield spread between two-year and 30-year bonds moved to 72.6 basis points from 66.4 basis points at the previous close of North American trading. 

 In money markets, the three-month when-issued T-bill yielded 5.03 percent, down from 5.08 percent from the previous close. 

 ($1=$1.54 Canadian). 

Document lba0000020010713dx2g06qbj




 U.S. Treasuries up early as world tech stocks slip. 

 By Ross Finley 
774 words
16 February 2001
13:12
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Feb 16 (Reuters) - U.S. Treasuries rose early on Friday, breaking four straight days of losses as a steep slide in technology stocks around the globe hurt U.S. equity index futures, overshadowing interest rate concerns that had recently gripped the bond market. 

 Treasuries slumped on Thursday as investors reassessed expectations for lower rates from the Federal Reserve following Chairman Alan Greenspan's upbeat testimony on Tuesday for a U.S. economic recovery in the second half of 2001. Those views were bolstered by other Fed officials this week. 

 But early Friday, stocks - particularly technology shares - were pounded following a Thursday profit warning from Nortel Networks Corp., the No. 1 supplier of fiber-optic telecoms equipment, and an earnings forecast cut from personal computer maker Dell. 

 The market was also preparing for several economic releases, including a key gauge of consumer sentiment - the focus for the session - and reports on industrial production and housing starts. 

 Ottawa-based Nortel's chief executive also predicted a faster and more severe economic downturn in the U.S., which helped to partly undermine some of the optimism about a recovery coming from Fed officials in recent sessions. 

 March Nasdaq 100 futures were down 60 points to 2,296, which traders said pointed to selling on Wall Street a day after the technology-weighed Nasdaq Composite index scored its highest close in a week. 

 "We got this bounce from stocks, but now it's a question of whether we rally or if you're supposed to sell the bounce," said a bond trader at a U.S. primary dealer. 

 Shorter-dated Treasuries often gain when stocks stage steep falls as investors temporarily park their money in easily-traded, risk-free Treasury securities. 

 "But on a Friday early close, the day before a long weekend, it's dangerous. People are not going to want to stand in the way of anything," the trader said. 

 The U.S. bond markets will close early on Friday at 2 p.m. (1900 GMT) and will be shut on Monday, Feb. 19 in observance of the Presidents' Day Holiday. 

 At 10 a.m. (1500 GMT) the University of Michigan releases its preliminary February consumer sentiment index. Economists in a Reuters survey on average expected a reading of 95.1 compared to a four-year low of 94.7 in January. 

 "Today's focus switches to consumer confidence, which we would expect to show signs of stabilization if growth is to recover in the second half of the year," wrote Malcolm Barr, an economist with J.P. Morgan Chase, in a note to clients, adding that this indicator had assumed "special importance" to the Fed's policy-setting body. 

 The Fed has repeatedly cited rekindling sagging consumer and business confidence as key to preventing the economy's sharp slowdown from slipping into a full-blown recession. 

 At 7:45 a.m. (1245 GMT) two-year Treasury notes were 3/32 higher at 99-27/32, yielding 4.82 percent. Five-year notes erased nearly all of their Thursday loss, up 5/32 to 103-5/32. Its yield fell off its high for the year of 5.03 percent to 4.99 percent. 

 Benchmark 10-year notes rose 3/32 to 98-24/32, yielding 5.16 percent, while 30-year bonds rose 4/32 to 98-14/32, yielding 5.48 percent. 

 At 8:30 a.m. (1330 GMT) the Labor Dept. is slated to release the January Producer Price Index (PPI). Economists in a Reuters survey forecast a 0.3 percent gain compared to a revised 0.2 percent rise in December. Excluding volatile food and energy items, the PPI was seen up 0.1 percent compared to a revised 0.1 percent rise the prior month. 

 Also at 8:30 a.m. the Commerce Dept. will issue housing starts and permits for January. Economists in a Reuters survey forecast a total of 1.573 million starts, annualized, compared to 1.575 million in December. 

 At 9:15 a.m. (1415 GMT) the Fed will release its monthly industrial production and capacity utilization report for January. Industrial activity is expected to be unchanged compared to the prior month, when it fell by 0.6 percent. 

 Comments by Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill cited in a German newspaper roused concerns overnight about the Treasury's long-standing strong dollar policy and sent currency markets into some confusion but did not affect Treasury prices. 

 A Treasury spokesman confirmed there had been no change in U.S. policy toward its currency. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2g06q1a




 U.S. tech stocks to fall at open after slew of profit warnings. 

 By Elizabeth Lazarowitz 
852 words
16 February 2001
12:59
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Feb 16 (Reuters) - Stocks are expected to slump at Friday's open after high-tech giants Dell Computer Corp., Hewlett-Packard Co and Nortel Networks Corp. all painted a gloomy picture of near-term growth. 

 The news tossed cold water on technology investors just a day after an optimistic forecast and strong profits from telecom equipment maker Ciena Corp. sparked a heated rally in the Nasdaq market. 

 "We can expect a pretty good drop, especially in communications-related companies," said Noah Blackstein, vice president and portfolio manager at Dynamic Power American Fund. the market was betting on a (second-half) recovery ... and nobody really knows if it's going to happen." 

 With more than an hour to go before the opening bell, Nasdaq 100 index futures for March were down 61.00 points at 2,295.00, pointing to a loss of 2.6 percent in the Nasdaq's 100 biggest stocks at the open. 

 Standard & Poor's 500 index futures for March were off 11.10 points at 1,322.00. 

 After Thursday's close, Dell, the world's No. 2 maker of personal computers, announced its first-ever large-scale layoffs and cut its earnings forecast for the current quarter, amid an industry-wide slowdown. 

 Dell slumped in pre-open trading, sliding to $23-3/4 on the Instinet electronic broker system from its close of $25 on Thursday. 

 The outlook from computing and printing giant H-P was similarly bleak, reporting after the close a decline in first-quarter operating income and saying it saw no near-term growth in its U.S. personal computer business. 

 Canada's Nortel - the world's leading supplier of fiber-optic telecoms equipment - slashed its forecast for growth in revenue and earnings per share for 2001 by about half to the 10 to 15 percent range, saying the economic downturn in the United States will continue well into the fourth quarter. 

 Nortel slumped to $20.75 on Instinet from its Thursday close of $29.75, and was threatening to drag shares of other high-speed communications-related companies down with it. 

 There was bad news from the drug sector, as well. U.S. drug firm Schering-Plough Corp. said late on Thursday it expects its first-quarter earnings to be as much as 15 percent lower than the 2000 quarter following plant inspections by U.S. regulators that will force the company to correct problems and thus disrupt drug production. 

 The dim forecasts followed an earnings warning from JDS Uniphase Corp., the world's No. 1 supplier of fiber-optics components, earlier in the week. 

 As they digest the news from the high-tech and drug sectors, U.S. financial markets are anticipating a fresh dose of economic data. 

 The government is scheduled to issue the Producer Prices Index (PPI) for January at 8:30 EST (1330 GMT). At the same time, but in a separate report, it will also issue housing starts data. 

 Economists in a Reuters survey forecast a 0.3 percent rise overall in PPI vs. a 0.2 percent gain in December. Excluding volatile food and energy prices, they expected a 0.1 percent rise in January, following a similar rise in the prior month. 

 At 9:15 a.m. EST (1415 GMT), the government is also scheduled to issue industrial production and capacity utilization data for January. Industrial production is expected to have remained unchanged in January following December's 0.6 percent drop, according to the Reuters poll. Capacity utilization was seen running at 80.4 percent in January, after December's 80.6 percent. 

 Stocks jumped on Thursday, with the technology-laced Nasdaq hitting its highest close in a week, after telecom equipment maker Ciena Corp. reported strong profits and gave a rosy forecast. 

 Blue chips also rose, with the broader market buoyed by a flurry of encouraging remarks by U.S. central bankers who voiced optimism that the sluggish U.S. economy may recover later this year. 

 The Nasdaq Composite Index closed up 61.51 points, or 2.47 percent, to 2,552.91, its strongest close since Feb. 8, when it reached 2,562.06. Ciena jumped $12-3/16 to $89, with the strength rubbing off on its peers, after its profits beat expectations and the company predicted its business would grow faster than the overall market. 

 The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average leaped 95.61 points, or 0.89 percent, to 10,891.02, helped by tech names like International Business Machines Corp.. 

 The broad Standard & Poor's 500 Index rose 10.69 points, or 0.81 percent, to 1,326.61. 

 In overseas markets, Tokyo stocks slipped as optical-fiber cable makers like Furukawa Electric Co. Ltd. were hammered in the wake of Nortel's profit warning. The benchmark Nikkei-225 index fell 1.14 percent. 

 European stocks were also hit by the warnings from U.S. high-tech heavyweights. The FTSE Eurotop 300 index was down 1.5 percent. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2g06pvv




 RESEARCH ALERT-JP Morgan, Salomon  cut  Hewlett-Packard. 

258 words
16 February 2001
15:30
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Feb 16 (Reuters) - JP Morgan Chase on Friday cut its rating for Hewlett-Packard Co. , the world's No. 2 computer company after IBM Corp. , while Salomon Smith Barney slashed its earnings and revenue outlook for the company, which on Thursday issued a profit warning. 

 JP Morgan downgraded the stock to market perform from long-term buy, citing problems in overall demand, competition and execution. 

 "The stock is dead money in the near term," analyst David Kunstler said in a research note. 

 Salomon Smith Barney analyst John Jones cut his fiscal year 2001 and 2000 estimates for the second time, this time to $1.60 from $1.73 and to $1.90 from $2.17, respectively. 

 Jones also cut his 2001 revenue estimate by $1.2 billion to $51.5 billion, citing light sales of Unix systems and printers. 

 "It appears to us IBM and Sun (Microsystems Inc.) are squeezing Hewlett-Packard," Jones said, referring to the market for powerful business computers that run the Unix operating system, a market currently dominated by Sun. 

 He said although Hewlett-Packard on Thursday posted first-quarter earnings that met its lowered target, its revenues fell short by $300 million, and were up only 2 percent year over year. 

 The Palo Alto, Calif.-based company's shares shed $3.60 at $32.75, or 10 percent, in Friday morning trading on the New York Stock Exchange, near the low end of their 52-week range of $29.13 to $77.75. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2g06por




 UPDATE 1-Canadian bonds sharply higher at midafternoon. 

605 words
16 February 2001
20:01
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 TORONTO, Feb 16 (Reuters) - Canadian bonds rallied sharply higher in afternoon activity on Friday on a combination of weak U.S. consumer confidence data and a flight to quality as equity markets digested a shock profit warning from Nortel Networks Corp. and news of a U.S-led bombing of Baghdad. 

 The front end of the bond market spiked higher with Canada's two-year bond up 12 Canadian cents at C$101.71 to yield 4.980 percent. The gains were on renewed hope the U.S. Federal Reserve may have to cut rates aggressively in the wake of a key report that showed consumer confidence had fallen to its lowest level since 1993. 

 Michigan's preliminary February consumer sentiment index slipped to 87.8, a level not seen since November 1993, from a final January reading of 94.7. 

 The report is closely watched as the Fed has repeatedly said rekindling sagging consumer and business confidence is key to preventing the U.S. slowdown from slipping into recession. 

 Canada's five-year note was up 21 Canadian cents at C$103.06 to yield 5.231 percent. 

 The Canadian benchmark long bond, due 2029, rose 30 Canadian cents to C$100.65 to yield 5.703 percent. 

 In the U.S., the 30-year treasury bond was up 17/32 to yield 5.455 percent. The yield spread between the Canadian and U.S. 30-year bonds moved to 24.8 basis points, from 24 basis points at the previous close. 

 Canadian bonds were easily outperformed by the U.S. treasuries which rallied on news of the bombing of Baghdad. 

 The U.S. Defense Department confirmed air strikes by U.S. and British warplanes on targets south of Baghdad. A Defense Department official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said coalition aircraft struck radar systems in retaliation for increased Iraqi targeting of Western aircraft in the southern no-fly zones. 

 Investors fled equity markets for the "safe haven" of the bond market on the uncertainty created by the bombing campaign. 

 "It just reinforces the flight to safety that you see from the weakness in equities, it just adds to the mix," said Mario Angastiniotis, senior economist at Standard & Poor's MMS. "It increases uncertainty about the reaction to this event and basically puts everybody on hold." 

 Money had already been flowing into the bond market from equities after a shock profit warning on Thursday afternoon from bellwether Nortel sent the Toronto Stock Exchange down more than 600 points on Friday while U.S. equity markets were also lower on gloomy profit forecasts for high tech companies. 

 Earlier, U.S. economic news softened bond prices. Wholesale prices jumped by 1.1 percent, much more than the 0.3 percent rise economists had expected and the 0.2 percent gain in December. 

 Housing starts were also surprisingly robust in the U.S., climbing 5.3 percent in January - a nine-month high - following a 0.3 percent gain in December. 

 "What we got this morning was on the strong side, but if you look through it, it doesn't really mean that much for demand later this year. It's still quite soft," said Mark Chandler, senior economist at Goldman Sachs. 

 The yield spread between two-year and 30-year bonds moved to 72.0 basis points from 66.4 basis points at the previous close of North American trading. 

 In money markets, the three-month when-issued T-bill yielded 5.04 percent, down from 5.08 percent from the previous close. 

 ($1=$1.54 Canadian). 

Document lba0000020010713dx2g06pjm




 Most US Treasuries fall on shock inflation report. 

 By Ross Finley 
773 words
16 February 2001
14:42
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Feb 16 (Reuters) - Most U.S. Treasuries fell for a fifth straight session on Friday after the government said January wholesale prices posted their largest one-month gain in more than a decade, rousing near-dormant inflation concerns. 

 The January producer price index (PPI) jumped by 1.1 percent, much more than the 0.3 percent rise economists had expected and the 0.2 percent gain in December. 

 Excluding volatile food and energy prices, the core PPI showed a strong gain as well, up 0.7 percent, far higher the 0.1 percent Wall Street analysts had expected. 

 The report suggested the Federal Reserve may take a more cautious approach to cutting interest rates in the future after razing them by a full percentage point in January. Top Fed officials had been saying recently that inflation is largely tame and poses few obstacles to those rate cuts. 

 "The numbers shocked," said a bond trader at a U.S. primary dealer. "This is way outside of consensus. But the market is finding a little support at the bottom because we are still a little spooked by equities," the trader said. 

 Weakness in stocks following a Thursday profit warning from Nortel Networks Corp., the No. 1 supplier of fiber-optic telecoms equipment, and an earnings forecast cut from personal computer maker Dell, had sent Treasuries higher before the inflation numbers were released. 

 Stocks opened lower, with the technology-rich Nasdaq index off more than 115 points or 4.5 percent at the open, helping to prop shorter-dated Treasuries off their session lows. 

 Shorter-dated Treasuries often trade firmer when stocks stage steep slides as investors temporarily park their cash in liquid risk-free government securities. 

 The January PPI number threw a fresh dose of confusion into the market, which has trudged lower all week as upbeat testimony from Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan and speeches by Fed officials painted a brightening outlook for the U.S. economy. Treasuries have suffered all week as traders scaled back hopes for aggressive interest rate cuts. 

 "I think this is a one-month aberration," said Anthony Karydakis, senior financial economist at Banc One Capital Markets in Chicago. "(But) clearly it represents a complication in the Fed's mind." 

 In a separate release, the Commerce Dept. said January housing starts jumped unexpectedly by 5.3 percent to a 1.651 million unit annualized rate, far more than the 1.573 million starts expected and 1.568 million in December. 

 "The housing start number is continuing to surprise on the upside. It is very difficult to go into recession when the housing market is remaining strong. So the economy is not as bad as believed," said John Spinello, Treasury market strategist at Merrill Lynch. 

 While the market has been comfortable with core consumer inflation around 2.5 percent, Spinello said it was "very possible" that the Fed has been a little over-optimistic on inflation risks. 

 The Fed also reported industrial production slipped by 0.3 percent in January compared to a 0.5 percent drop in December. Economists had expected a flat reading. But the market, already aware of a deep slowdown in manufacturing, reacted little to the data. 

 At 10 a.m. (1500 GMT) the University of Michigan is due to release its preliminary February consumer sentiment index, which will be closely watched as the Fed has repeatedly cited rekindling sagging consumer and business confidence as key to preventing the slowdown from slipping into recession. 

 Economists in a Reuters survey on average expected a reading of 95.1 compared to a four-year low of 94.7 in January. 

 "Today's focus switches to consumer confidence, which we would expect to show signs of stabilization if growth is to recover in the second half of the year," wrote Malcolm Barr, an economist with J.P. Morgan Chase, in a note to clients, adding that this indicator had assumed "special importance" to the Fed's policy-setting body. 

 At 9:20 a.m. (1420 GMT) two-year Treasury notes were up 1/32 at 99-26/32, yielding 4.85 percent. Five-year notes were off 1/32 at 102-31/32, yielding 5.03 percent. 

 Benchmark 10-year notes fell 10/32 to 98-11/32, yielding 5.22 percent, while 30-year bonds fell 16/32 to 97-25/32, yielding 5.53 percent. 

 The U.S. bond markets will close early on Friday at 2 p.m. (1900 GMT) and will be shut on Monday, Feb. 19 in observance of the Presidents' Day Holiday. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2g06p9h




 U.S. stocks to drop at open on strong PPI, gloomy tech outlook. 

 By Elizabeth Lazarowitz 
974 words
16 February 2001
14:10
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Feb 16 (Reuters) - Stocks are expected to tumble at Friday's open after a slew of high-tech heavyweights issued gloomy forecasts and unexpectedly strong producer-level inflation data dampened hopes for aggressive interest-rate cuts by the Federal Reserve. 

 High-tech giants Nortel Networks Corp., Dell Computer Corp., and Hewlett-Packard Co and sent a shiver through Wall Street when they all painted a gloomy picture of near-term growth. 

 The government reported its monthly Producer Price Index (PPI) posted its biggest gain in more than a decade in January, rising 1.1 percent, well surpassing expectations for a 0.3 percent rise. 

 Excluding volatile food and energy prices, the core PPI gained 0.7 percent, also easily skimming by Wall Street's forecast of a 0.1 percent gain. 

 "This is probably about the worst news that the market could be confronted with on the inflation front," said Paul Cherney, chief real-time market analyst at S&P Marketscope. 

 "You have to entertain thoughts/concerns that we could be at the beginning of a stagflation," Cherney said. "This news will prevent the market from seeing positive territory today." 

 Stock index futures trudged lower after the report, and about half an hour ahead of the opening bell, Nasdaq 100 index futures for March were down 65.00 points at 2,291.00, pointing to a loss of 2.7 percent in the Nasdaq's 100 biggest stocks at the open. 

 The Nasdaq 100 index of the market's largest companies was expected to open with a loss of more than 4 percent, or nearly 100 points, according to the Nasdaq-100 Pre-Market Indicator. 

 Standard & Poor's 500 index futures for March were off 18.10 points at 1,315.00. 

 The high-tech profit warnings tossed cold water on technology investors just a day after an optimistic forecast and strong profits from telecom equipment maker Ciena Corp. CIEN.O sparked a heated rally in the Nasdaq market. 

 "We can expect a pretty good drop, especially in communications-related companies," said Noah Blackstein, vice president and portfolio manager at Dynamic Power American Fund. "The market was betting on a (second-half) recovery ... and nobody really knows if it's going to happen." 

 After Thursday's close, Dell, the world's No. 2 maker of personal computers, announced its first-ever large-scale layoffs and cut its earnings forecast for the current quarter, amid an industry-wide slowdown. 

 Dell slumped in pre-open trading, sliding to $23-3/4 on the Instinet electronic broker system from its close of $25 on Thursday. 

 The outlook from computing and printing giant H-P was similarly bleak, reporting after the close a decline in first-quarter operating income and saying it saw no near-term growth in its U.S. personal computer business. 

 Canada's Nortel - the world's leading supplier of fiber-optic telecoms equipment - slashed its forecast for growth in revenue and earnings per share for 2001 by about half to the 10 to 15 percent range, saying the economic downturn in the United States will continue well into the fourth quarter. 

 Nortel slumped to $20.75 on Instinet from its Thursday close of $29.75, and was threatening to drag shares of other high-speed communications-related companies down with it. 

 There was bad news from the drug sector, as well. U.S. drug firm Schering-Plough Corp. said late on Thursday it expects its first-quarter earnings to be as much as 15 percent lower than the 2000 quarter following plant inspections by U.S. regulators that will force the company to correct problems and thus disrupt drug production. 

 The dim forecasts followed an earnings warning from JDS Uniphase Corp., the world's No. 1 supplier of fiber-optics components, earlier in the week. 

 Ahead of the opening bell, the Commerce Department reported U.S. housing starts rose 5.3 percent to a 1.651 million unit rate. 

 At 9:15 a.m. EST (1415 GMT), the government is also scheduled to issue industrial production and capacity utilization data for January. Industrial production is expected to have remained unchanged in January following December's 0.6 percent drop, according to the Reuters poll. Capacity utilization was seen running at 80.4 percent in January, after December's 80.6 percent. 

 Stocks jumped on Thursday, with the technology-laced Nasdaq hitting its highest close in a week, after telecom equipment maker Ciena Corp. reported strong profits and gave a rosy forecast. 

 Blue chips also rose, with the broader market buoyed by a flurry of encouraging remarks by U.S. central bankers who voiced optimism that the sluggish U.S. economy may recover later this year. 

 The Nasdaq Composite Index closed up 61.51 points, or 2.47 percent, to 2,552.91, its strongest close since Feb. 8, when it reached 2,562.06. Ciena jumped $12-3/16 to $89, with the strength rubbing off on its peers, after its profits beat expectations and the company predicted its business would grow faster than the overall market. 

 The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average leaped 95.61 points, or 0.89 percent, to 10,891.02, helped by tech names like International Business Machines Corp.. 

 The broad Standard & Poor's 500 Index rose 10.69 points, or 0.81 percent, to 1,326.61. 

 In overseas markets, Tokyo stocks slipped as optical-fiber cable makers like Furukawa Electric Co. Ltd. were hammered in the wake of Nortel's profit warning. The benchmark Nikkei-225 index fell 1.14 percent. 

 European stocks were also hit by the warnings from U.S. high-tech heavyweights. The FTSE Eurotop 300 index Was down 1.9 percent. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2g06oxn




 UPDATE 1-Japan's Furukawa falls on Nortel  profit warning . 

 By Eriko Amaha 
480 words
16 February 2001
08:09
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 TOKYO, Feb 16 (Reuters) - Shares in Japanese optical-fibre cable makers plunged on Friday, battered by a profit warning from Canada's Nortel Networks Corp and as giant Furukawa Electric Co Ltd saw revisions ahead. 

 Furukawa, Japan's leader in the field, was one of the hardest hit, tumbling 10.75 percent to an eight-month low of 1,910 yen. 

 In the wake of Nortel's downward revision, Furukawa said it now expects slower growth in its optical fibre-related products, although it still expects parent current profit for the business year to March to hit a record high. 

 "We are revising our (longer-term) forecasts, although the revision won't be too big," company spokesman Nobuyuki Kishi said, citing an expected decline in demand for amplifier products. He declined to give a time frame or to specify which earnings were involved. 

 Furukawa has forecast a parent current profit of 35 billion yen ($303.1 million) for the year to March, but Kishi said the actual figure would likely be higher. 

 The company will unveil a medium-term business plan on February 22, he said. 

 Some analysts said Friday's sharp fall in Furukawa could be an overreaction. 

 "Furukawa is oversold," said Masaharu Sakudo, senior managing director at Tachibana Securities. "The market is driven by speculation at this point and investors are taking aim at select issues. 

 "It's really not all that healthy a situation," he said. 

 NORTEL DRAGS PEERS 

 Another factor weighing on Furukawa shares was a lawsuit lodged by rival Sumitomo Electric Industries Ltd on Tuesday. 

 In papers filed at a U.S. district court in Delaware, Sumitomo alleged that Furukawa's Rainbow Pump for increasing the data-carrying capacity of communications networks infringes Sumitomo's 1998 patent for a "semiconductor laser module and optical fiber amplifier". 

 Kishi said the company was aware of the lawsuit but had not received any notice. 

 Nortel's woes also dragged down Furukawa's peers. 

 Nippon Sheet Glass Co Ltd slid 13.92 percent to 1,231 yen and Sumitomo Electric Industries fell 4.82 percent to 1,540 yen. All underperformed the benchmark Nikkei share average, which closed down 1.14 percent at 13,175.49. 

 The slide reflects a sharp downturn in the crucial North American market for fibre-optic telecoms equipment, where capital market constraints and increased spending caution among established carriers have led to a slowdown in investment in new networks. 

 Nortel, the world's number one supplier of fibre-optic telecoms equipment, slashed 50 percent off its 2001 revenue forecast on Thursday, sending its shares plummeting. 

 They fell more than 20 percent in after-hours trade on the Instinet order-matching systems, last trading at $22.63 around 0100 GMT, compared with a close of $29.75 on the New York Exchange. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2g06mc1




 Japan's Furukawa tumbles on Nortel  profit warning . 

415 words
16 February 2001
03:58
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 TOKYO, Feb 16 (Reuters) - Shares in Furukawa Electric Co Ltd , Japan's top optical-fibre cable maker, tumbled 11 percent to an eight-month low during early Friday trade, hit by a profit warning from Canada's Nortel Networks Corp . 

 Furukawa was trading at 1,919 yen, down 10.33 percent at 0340 GMT, having dipped earlier to 1,888 yen - the firm's lowest price since June 2000. The benchmark Nikkei share average was marginally lower, down 0.39 percent at 13,275.88. 

 The slide reflects a sharp downturn in the crucial North American market for fibre-optic telecoms equipment, where capital market constraints and increased spending caution among established carriers have led to a slowdown in investment in new networks. 

 Nortel, the world's number one supplier of fibre-optic telecoms equipment, slashed 50 percent off its 2001 revenue forecast on Thursday, sending its shares plummeting. 

 They fell more than 20 percent in after-hours trade on the Instinet order-matching systems, last trading at $22.63 around 0100 GMT, compared with a close of $29.75 on the New York Exchange. 

 In the wake of Nortel's downward revision, Furukawa said it now expects slower growth in its optical-fibre related products going forward, although it still expects parent current profit for the business year to March to hit a record high. "We are revising our (longer-term) forecasts, although the revision won't be too big," Kishi said, citing an expected decline in demand for amplifier products. 

 Furukawa had initially forecast a parent current profit of 35 billion yen ($303.1 million) for the year to March, but company spokesman Nobuyuki Kishi said the actual figure would likely be higher. 

 The company will announce a medium-term business plan on February 22, he said. 

 Another factor weighing on Furukawa shares was a lawsuit lodged by rival Sumitomo Electric Industries Ltd on Tuesday. 

 In papers filed at a U.S. district court in Delaware, Sumitomo alleged that Furukawa's Rainbow Pump for increasing the data-carrying capacity of communications networks infringes Sumitomo's 1998 patent for a "semiconductor laser module and optical fiber amplifier". 

 Kishi said the company was aware of the lawsuit but had not received any notice. 

 Nortel's woes also hit Furukawa's Japanese peers. Nippon Sheet Glass Co Ltd slid 11.19 percent to 1,270 yen while Sumitomo Electric Industries fell 6.37 percent to 1,515 yen. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2g06lzt


 Jobs axe set to fall at technology giants 

 GRAHAM DIGGINES 
631 words
16 February 2001
Evening News - Scotland
EENS
1
B3
English
 (Copyright 2001) 

 FURTHER evidence of the US economic slowdown emerged today as staff at three major technology firms were warned of job losses. 

 Dell, the world's second biggest computer manufacturer, has announced 1700 redundancies - the first in its 16-year history. 

 The company blamed an industry-wide slowdown in personal-computer demand. 

 Fewer PCs mean fewer profits and that showed up in Dell's financial statements for the last three months of 2000, which missed analyst expectations by a penny a share. In the final three months of the year, Dell made 350 million pounds, or 12.4p a share. 

 Rumours of the lay-offs had been circulating ever since the company issued a profit warning in January. 

 Nortel, the world's biggest fibre-optic equipment maker has also slashed its profit forecasts for 2001 and now plans to cut 10,000 jobs this year. 

 Steadfast 

 The Canadian company expects just 15 per cent growth in sales and a ten per cent gain in operating profit for the year. 

 The move confirmed doubts about Nortel's previously steadfast insistence growth and operating profit would improve 30 per cent or more. 

 The firm, which supplies the optical gear for telephone and data networks that make up the internet, said it will axe 6000 more positions this year on top of 4000 job cuts announced last month. 

 John Roth, Nortel's chief executive officer, said: "While we previously noted that economic uncertainties and capital constraints were impacting our outlook, we are now seeing a faster and more severe economic downturn in the United States. We now expect the US market slowdown to continue well into the fourth quarter of 2001." 

 He also suggested that strong growth in overseas markets would help replace some of the lost US business. Nortel officials refused to say how many jobs losses would be caused through lay-offs. Officials would only say they were trying to minimise the number of redundancies by not replacing workers who retire or quit. 

 Investors were swift to punish Nortel's stock, wiping-out a quarter of the company's market value. Shares tumbled GBP 5.33, or 26 per cent, to GBP 15.19. 

 The profit warning also threatened to douse investors' confidence in technology shares today. 

 Tom Lauria, an industry analyst for ING Barings, said: "This is going to impact trading across the board in telecommunications and technology shares." 

 Nortel now joins a growing number of major technology companies, such as Cisco Systems, which are saying business conditions are turning even weaker than expected in the United States. 

 Job cuts also include 16,000 at Lucent Technologies; 10,000 at Verizon; and 3000 at Gateway. 

 Workers at telecoms giant Motorola were also facing an uncertain future today after the company warned jobs may be axed to cut costs. 

 Staff on the late shift at the firm's Swindon factory, which employs 1600 people, were sent home as the company launched a "consultation process" in the face of tough competition. 

 But it is not expected that the announcement will hit Motorola's operations in the Lothians. 

 A Motorola spokesman said: "We are involving employees in this process and elections are due to take place for representatives to meet with the management and human resources before the end of the month. 

 "There are some significant challenges facing the business and we need substantial cost reductions, but job cuts is only one of several possible options we are looking at." 

 Hewlett-Packard, the world's third biggest computer and printer manufacturer, today warned its full-year earnings were likely to fall short of expectations. 

 The announcement came as the company posted first quarter earnings that met its lowered target - ten per cent below previous expectations. 

Document eens000020010711dx2g003gh




 Sema Seeks To Reassure Investors With Early FY Results 

 By Elena Berton 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
508 words
16 February 2001
12:34
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 LONDON-(Dow Jones)- Anglo-French information-technology services company Sema PLC (SEMA) Friday released full-year earnings earlier than expected in a bid to reassure investors that no further trouble lurks on the horizon. 

 The figures, released four days after U.S. oil services-to-electronics group Schlumberger Ltd N.V. (SLB) bid GBP3.6 billion in cash for Sema, were in line with the company's profit warning in January. 

 Sema, which was expected to release full-year earnings next week, said sales rose 7.3% to GBP1.513 billion, while pretax profit before goodwill amortization declined 4.4% from the previous year to GBP91.9 million. 

 The results, described by analysts as "largely academic," highlighted the impact of the acquisition of U.S. telecommunications services company LHS. 

 "It's an attempt to reassure Schlumberger's shareholders. The only surprise is that they brought the results forward," said Commerzbank analyst James Heal. 

 The company blamed its decline in profit on industrywide conditions and the difficult integration of LHS, acquired in July for GBP3 billion. 

 "The extent of their problems has become quite clear from the results. LHS was a disaster for them and it really has precipitated their problems," said Finlay Thomson, an analyst at WestLB Panmure. 

 LHS generated sales of GBP48.5 million and an operating loss of GBP8 million, against initial expectations of substantial profit, Sema said. 

 The company's shares rose slightly after the results matched expectations and dissipated fears that the deal with Schlumberger might fall through. 

 "There was always a risk that results would come out even worse and in that situation Schlumberger might walk away," Thomson said. "The fact that figures are in line with what Sema said a month ago removes the uncertainty." 

 At 1136 GMT, Sema's shares were up 1.25 pence, or 0.2% at 544 pence. 

 During a conference call, Chief Executive Pierre Bonelli sought to reassure analysts and investors that the troubles with LHS had been resolved. 

 "The telecoms division and LHS are now working as a single team within the company. Staff morale is good and the integration is under control," he said. 

 Although he declined to comment on the company's outlook because of Schlumberger's recent offer, he noted that the company saw resumption of traditional ordering levels toward the end of 2000, especially in the system integration and outsourcing operations. 

 "In the telecoms communications area we do not see slowdown in the market whatsoever. There is a lot of ordering and it continues to be strong," he said. 

 "But we are not going to come back to the rate of growth we enjoyed in the years 1997 to 1999." 

 Also, the company hasn't seen the same growth in the area of Web integration that it experienced in the previous year, Bonelli said. 

 Company Web site: http://www.sema.com

 -By Elena Berton; Dow Jones Newswires; 44-20-7842-9267; elena.berton@dowjones.com 

Document dji0000020010711dx2g00qn6




 Moody's maintains rating on Nortel despite earnings warning 

153 words
16 February 2001
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2001) 

 NEW YORK, Feb 16 (AFP) - The US agency Moody's on Friday said it would maintain its rating on Canadian telecommunications giant Nortel despite the company's just-issued profit warning. 

 The ratings agency also retained its "stable" outlook on prospects for Nortel, which on Thursday said it anticpated a first quarter loss this year of four cents per share. 

 Citing a sharper than expected slowdown in the United States, a key export market, Nortel in addition announced plans to cut 10,000 jobs this year. 

 But according to Moody's the company has "built up significant flexibility within the current rating category with its strong performance over the past few years." 

 It also cited Nortel's "strong market share" and its recent cost- cutting efforts. 

 Moody's said it would therefore maintain Nortel's A2 rating on long term debt. 

 vl-nh/jlp 

Document afpr000020010709dx2g015qk




 Tokyo stocks end lower on telecoms, currency concerns 

583 words
16 February 2001
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2001) 

 TOKYO, Feb 16 (AFP) - Tokyo share prices edged down 1.1 percent on Friday following a profit warning by Nortel Networks in the US and as a stronger yen pressured exporters, a dealer said. 

 The Tokyo Stock Exchange's key Nikkei-225 index lost 151.9 points to end Friday at 13,175.49. 

 The Topix index of all issues on the Tokyo market's first section fell 11.31 points to 1,248.29. 

 Turnover on the major board totalled an estimated 645 million shares against the previous day's 662 million shares. 

 The index declined despite a solid performance Thursday by US shares, led by hi-tech issues. 

 US investors went bargain-hunting among technology shares Thursday following the Nasdaq's recent slide, sparking a rally that lifted the broader market. 

 The Nasdaq jumped 61.51 points, or 2.5 percent, to close at 2,552.91 and the blue-chip Dow Jones industrials gained 95.61 points, or 0.9 percent, to 10,891.02. 

 But Hiroichi Nishi, senior market analyst at Nikko Securities, said the Tokyo market took more notice of the trend in round-the- clock trading on the Globex 100 index in Chicago, which indicated the Nasdaq would fall later. 

 Telecommunications giant Nortel Networks issued a profit and revenue warning after markets closed Thursday, saying it would cut a total of 10,000 jobs this year -- 6,000 more than previously announced. 

 "At the end, there was no lead to support share prices even in the afternoon," said Mizuho Investor's Securities broker Hidenobu Nagahama. 

 "Nortel, which is the US major (fibre) optic-communications company, announced red-ink estimates for January through March, which caused telecommunication infrustructure shares to fall," Nagahama said. 

 Japan Telecom dropped 30,000 to 1,900,000 and NTT Corp lost 7,000 to 751,000. "NTT shares have been falling for five consecutive days," Nagahama said. 

 "Particularly telecommunications shares dragged the Nikkei down today," he added. 

 Exporters' shares also weighed on the index, as they came under selling pressure from the stronger yen, which was trading around 115.83-85 yen to the dollar Friday afternoon, compared to 116.32-35 yen in Tokyo late Thursday. 

 "Exporters' shares are down, pressured by the strong yen. That also lead the headline index to fall," Nikko Securities's Nishi said. 

 "The government downgraded its economic assessment in its monthly report to the cabinet. Investors also took that as a cue to sell shares," he added. 

 In its monthly economic report released Friday, the government said Japan's economy remains on an upward path but the pace of recovery had slowed as growth in the US economy also slowed. 

 Tokyo's losses were contained as the Nikkei found support from investors picking up bargains, however, Nishi said, adding many investors were sidelined ahead of Saturday's meeting of G7 finance ministers and central bankers. 

 Among exporters, Sony Corp. dropped 140 yen to 8,300. 

 Japan's third-ranked automaker Honda lost 220 yen to 4,510. On Thursday, Honda reported a 25 percent drop in net profits for the three months to December compared to the same period a year earlier. 

 Mitsubishi Motors fell 21 yen to 343 after announcing Thursday it would have to repair faults on around 1.5 million vehicles worldwide. 

 Power and gas companies shares rose on the strong yen. Tokyo Electric Power Co. added 45 yen to 2,635. tfu/ja/bro 

Document afpr000020010709dx2g015gu


 Business 
 Nightly Business Report 

 Paul Kangas, Susie Gharib 
4,538 words
16 February 2001
23:30
Nightly Business Report
NBR
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 PAUL KANGAS, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT ANCHOR:  A triple whammy for Wall Street. Investors are spooked by bad news from some tech bellwethers, a spike in inflation and an American air strike on Iraq. The Dow fell 91 points, and the NASDAQ Index fell 127 to its lowest level in almost six weeks. Good evening. I`m Paul Kangas in Miami. 

 SUSIE GHARIB, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT ANCHOR:  And I`m Susie Gharib in New York City. Tonight`s market monitor guest has been bearish on the markets for several years, but not anymore. We talk with James Stack, president of InvesTech Research. Then, the power of learning from someone else`s mistakes. We`ll look at electricity deregulation, Virginia style. 

 GHARIB:  Good evening, everyone. Red flags on earnings and the economy, and an air strike in Iraq led to red ink on Wall Street. The NASDAQ plunged 5 percent, or 127 points. The Dow fell 91. Suzanne Pratt takes a look at the news and worries behind today`s market action. 

 SUZANNE PRATT, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT:  Wall Street got clobbered today by the double whammy of inflation worries and profit concerns. And if that wasn`t enough, early in the afternoon, traders learned that US war planes were bombing Iraq. While the military action startled Wall Street, experts say it did little real damage to trading. 

 MARK KELLER, INVESTMENT STRATEGIST, AG EDWARDS: It`s pulled people away from their trading over the last hour or so, but I don`t think a lot of investment decisions have been made new as a result of it. 

 PRATT: Traders did spend time today stewing about escalating prices. The latest inflation fears stemmed from a government report showing the biggest jump in wholesale prices in more than a decade. The Producer Price Index surged 1.1 percent in January. The core rate, which excludes food and energy costs, soared 0.7 of 1 percent. Investors are worried the data will force the Fed to be less aggressive about cutting interest rates. But many economists see the report as an aberration in a largely benign inflation environment. 

 BILL DUDLEY, U.S. ECONOMIC RESEARCH DIR., GOLDMAN SACHS: My inflation views have not changed one iota based on the PPI report we got today, and I think that the Federal Reserve is going to correctly view this as just an outlier that doesn`t really tell you much about the long-run inflation outlook. 

 PRATT:  While inflation may be nothing to fret about, investors are still very concerned about corporate profits. A shocking profit warning from NorTel Networks (NT) late yesterday raised serious questions today about the outlook for the tech sector in the second half of this year. 

 KELLER: I think profits will likely be turning up very nicely over most of the economy over the second half of the year. I think the big boogy man is in technology. We just don`t know how deep the down cycle is going to be there. 

 PRATT:  Today`s trading caps off another volatile week for investors. Hard earned gains Wednesday and Thursday for the NASDAQ were completely wiped out today. But some market pros say such back and forth action is typical of a bottoming process. Suzanne Pratt, "NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT," New York. 

 KANGAS:  That unexpectedly large jump in wholesale prices on its own was enough to trigger a sharp opening sell-off on Wall Street, but making it worse was yesterday`s post market announcement by NorTel that it would have a first quarter loss on lower than expected revenues. On top of all this were revenue and earnings warnings from Hewlett-Packard (HWP), Corning (GLW) and even Schering-Plough (SGP). It was no wonder then, that early in the trading session the Dow Industrial Average wiped out all of yesterday`s 95-point gain with a 103-point loss, while the NASDAQ Index fell as much as 117 points after gaining 61 points Thursday. The blue chip sector soon stabilized and firmed up a bit with the help of some cautious bargain hunting, but growing pessimism about the earnings outlook for technology companies kept the NASDAQ Index moving lower, until at noontime, it posted a 114-point deficit while the Dow trimmed its loss to 79 points. 

 The market lost more ground in afternoon trading partly because of the US bombing raid on Iraq, along with some selling linked to expiring February stock options and indexes. The Dow Industrial Average finally closed with a loss of 91.20 at 10,799.82. This week the Dow rose twice, fell three times, but still managed to gain 18.37 points overall. The NASDAQ Index today tumbled 127.53.  That`s 5 percent, ends at 2425.38. This Index fell twice this week, but rose three times.  Still had a net overall loss of just over 45 1/2 points. 

 Big board volume today moved up to 1.242 billion shares and more than twice as much down volume than up volume, easily twice as much. 

 Transports down 47.69. 

 Utility Index gained over 3 1/2 points. 

 The Closing Tick practically neutral at -83. 

 Standard & Poor`s 500 off just over 25 points. 

 A 13-point drop in the 100. 

 The MidCap 400 off just over 8 1/2. 

 And the Bridge Futures Price Index edged up .49. 

 A loss of just over 6  1/2 points in the Composite New York. 

 The Value Line off exactly 7 1/4 points. 

 Russell2000 Small Cap off 9.57. 

 And the broadly based Wilshire 5000 down nearly 224 1/4 points. 

 The bond market broke a five-session losing streak today, despite that rise in January wholesale prices and news of a 5.3 percent jump in housing starts. The strength was prompted by several factors including a decline in the University of Michigan`s February consumer sentiment index to a seven-year low and a 0.3 percent drop in January Industrial production. The other major positive for bonds was flight to safety buying due to the steep sell-off in stocks. 

 Tax free and corporates rose 1/4  to 3/8 of a point on average and the Treasury mark did well. 

 5-year notes up 12/32. 

 Bellwether 10-year note up 15/32, bringing the yield down to 5.11 percent. 

 30-year bond up 14/32. 

 And the Lehman Brothers Long-Term Treasury Bond Index up nearly 7 1/2 points. 

 I`ll be back shortly to show you where the action was on Wall Street today. Susie. 

 GHARIB:   Paul, President Bush met with Mexican President Vicente Fox today in his first trip outside the United States as chief executive. The two leaders talked about immigration, free trade, and curtailing drug trafficking. Mr. Bush called for a deeper partnership between Mexico and the United States.  Mexico has become an economic player in the hemisphere since the NAFTA agreement was signed in 1994. 

 KANGAS:  The Bush visit to Mexico is also highlighting investment prospects in that country and region. While Mexico and Latin America have many problems, some analysts think the area is ready for a second look by US investors. Jeff Yastine reports. 

 JEFF YASTINE, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: Analysts say the Bush trip to Mexico has deep significance for the region, showing the new administration`s priorities on expanding trade not just in Mexico, but the rest of the hemisphere. 

 ANTONIO VILLAMIL, ECONOMIST, WASHINGTON ECONOMICS GROUP: I think during the next four years, we`re going to see significant opportunities in mergers and acquisitions in the free trade area, the America`s umbrellas, as we move aggressively toward fast track and the FTAA by 2005.  You`re going to see a lot of capital moving across the borders, seeking opportunities, consolidation, mergers, acquisitions.  So that will be very important for the equity markets. 

 YASTINE: Even without expanded free trade treaties, analysts say Mexico deserves a second look from patient U.S. investors. While a large blue chip U.S. index like the S&P 500 is nearly flat so far this year, Mexico`s IPC Balsa Index (ph) is up about 12 percent. 

 Strategists point to more economic stability as well. A floating exchange rate has made the prospect of another currency crisis less likely and the banking system has also been strengthened. But a slowing U.S. economy means Mexico`s once rapid GDP growth will slow as well. 

 Analysts say investors ought to investigate Brazil more thoroughly, too. With a reformed economy and a growing middle class, some strategists liken the situation now to that of the post-war U.S. economy in the 1950s when utilities were growth stocks. 

 PETER GRUBER, CHAIRMAN & PRESIDENT, GLOBALVEST MANAGEMENT: These were the stocks that grew among the fastest and that`s what`s happening in this Reagan. The demand for electricity will probably grow about three times the growth of the GDP. If you`ve got a four percent growth rate, the demand for electricity increases by about 12 percent. So -- and these are things that you can get financing for. 

 YASTINE: There is one caveat, the question of when the Federal Reserve`s easing of interest rates begins to take hold. Because the economies of the Americas are so interconnected, if the U.S. economy falls into recession, then any debt on Latin America will take that much longer to pay off. 

 Jeff Yastine, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, Miami. 

 KANGAS: Wall Street moved toward the long weekend on a rather sour note today, as we saw, down 91.20 in the Dow, and the broader market lower by about a 19 to 11 margin; 113 new yearly highs, though, only 28 new lows. 

 Nortel Networks (NT) topped the active list on 98 1/2 million shares, plunging $9.75, the low of the day $19.50. After the close yesterday, as we reported, the company sees a first quarter loss of $0.04 a share on lower than expected revenues. 

 Schering-Plough (SGP) tumbling $7.07. The company sees first quarter earnings as much as 15 percent below last year`s $0.42 a share. That would bring them down to $0.36, $0.37. 

 Corning (GLW) off $9.01. The company cut this year`s photonic technology revenue growth estimate from plus 75 to 90 percent to up only about 50 percent. 

 Lucent Technologies (LU) losing $0.95. 

 And Vodafone Group (VOD) caught in the telecom downdraft, off $2.62. 

 General Electric (GE) fell $0.98. 

 EMC (EMC) a loss of $4.05. 

 A similar drop in Texas Instruments (TXN). Witt Soundview Brokerage cut TXN`s earnings estimate, incidentally. 

 Pfizer (PFE), a defensive type stock, the only gainer in the 10 most active, up $1.01. 

 Then Compaq (CPQ) lost $2.10. 

 Analog Devices (ADI) dropping $2.01. First quarter earnings doubled from last year, $0.50 versus $0.25, in line with estimates, but the company predicting lower second quarter earnings, in the range of $0.43 to $0.44, and a six to eight percent revenue decline. 

 DPL (DPL), the holding company for Dayton Power & Light, down $2.08. The company`s decided to remain independent after reviewing alternatives. First Boston downgraded it from "buy" to just a "hold." 

 Exxon Mobil (XOM), the biggest point gainer in the Dow, up $1.52. 

 General Motors (GM) lost $1.12. UBS Warburg Brokerage downgraded it from "buy" to "hold" and G.M. is no longer the largest U.S. corporation. It`s now third, I think, after Exxon (XOM) and Wal-Mart (WMT). 

 Hewlett-Packard (HWP) down $3.22. As we reported after the close yesterday, earnings lower, $0.37 versus $0.40. The company said no double digit revenue growth this year. 

 Micron Technology (MU) down $2.05. Morgan Stanley downgraded it from "outperform" to just "neutral." 

 Arch Coal (ACI), one of the few good percentage gainers, rising $2.49. Merrill Lynch reinstated coverage of the stock with a "buy" recommendation. 

 C Mac Industries (EMS), which makes telecom equipment, down $14.78 a share. The company gets 60 percent of its sales from Nortel (NT) and I guess we know why it went down. 

 Celestica (CLS) down $10. It`s a major supplier of parts to Nortel and Hewlett-Packard. 

 Technitrol (TNL) down $6.38, sees lower than expected first quarter earnings of $0.75 to $0.78. The Street was looking for $0.81. 

 Four Seasons Hotels (FS) down $7.75 despite higher fourth quarter earnings, $1.11, versus $0.98 -- that`s Canadian -- last year. Bear Stearns, however, said those are lower than expected earnings. 

 Pall (PLL) down $2.40. The company says lower than expected revenue growth will chop about $0.04 off second quarter earnings. 

 NASDAQ trading, a 127 1/2 point loss in the Index today. The volume down from yesterday`s pace. For every 10 stocks higher, 26 lower. 

 JDS Uniphase (JDSU) down $9.31. 

 A $2.56 loss in Cisco (CSCO). 

 Juniper (JNPR) down $12.19. 

 CIENA (CIEN), despite better than expected earnings earlier in the week, down $6.38. 

 Sun Micro (SUNW) fell $4 in this blizzard of minus signs. 

 Microsoft (MSFT) off $1.50. 

 Intel (INTC) lost $1.44. 

 Broadcom (BRCM) tumbling $10.88. 

 Applied Materials (AMAT) down $1.20. 

 And Veritas Software (VRTS) down $6.25. Not a gainer in the 10 actives. 

 VICORP Restaurants (VRES) was a gainer, though, up $6.13. Bank of Boston Capital is going to acquire all the shares it doesn`t already own for $25.65 a share in cash. 

 At Road (ARDI) down $2.69. The company makes vehicle location systems for trucks and taxi companies. A fourth quarter loss of $0.25 versus only a $0.15 loss a year ago. 

 And Kopin (KOPN) down $3.69. It`s a manufacturer of semiconductor components. It did have higher fourth quarter earnings of $0.05 versus only $0.02 last year but predicted a first quarter loss of $0.09 to $0.12 a share. 

 The American Exchange Index down 4 1/2 points exactly. It dropped 1.76 for the week. 

 Storage Computer (SOS) down $1.05. 

 And American Technical Ceramics (AMK) down $1.35. Both of these stocks caught in the high tech downdraft. 

 And finally, the Index Shares, as you might imagine, all on the down side, especially the NASDAQ Qs (QQQ). 

 That`s the Wall Street Wrap Up. Susie? 

 GHARIB: Paul, California Governor Gray Davis unveiled a plan today to rescue the state`s troubled power companies. He wants to tack a surcharge to monthly power bills and have the state buy 32,000 miles of transmission lines from the utilities. It`s a $9 billion deal. Meanwhile, California`s power crisis is motivating other states to reevaluating their plans. Twenty-four states are moving toward deregulation and no one wants to repeat California`s mistakes. 

 Stephanie Woods gives us a status report from Virginia. 

 STEPHANIE WOODS, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT CORRESPONDENT: Virginia`s largest supplier of electricity, Dominion Power, has taken to the airwaves, trying to convince consumers and lawmakers that the state`s deregulation plan won`t lead to a California style power crisis. 

 UNIDENTIFIED ACTOR: Power shortages, high prices, utilities on the verge of bankruptcy and maybe you`re concerned it might happen here. Don`t be. Virginia has made sure it won`t. 

 WOODS: Delegate Chip Woodrum agrees Virginia isn`t likely to have California`s problems. But he`s still worried the plan may hurt consumers. 

 DEL. CHIP WOODRUM (D) ROANOKE: There are times I feel like we may be bungee jumping, financially bungee jumping without a safety net and we`re not too sure how tight the knot is tied around our ankles. 

 WOODS: Unlike California, Virginia is taking a slower approach to deregulation, phasing it in over seven years. Unlike California, Virginia is not requiring the utilities to divest their power plants and is letting utilities enter into long-term contracts for power. And most importantly, unlike California, Virginia is flush with power generating capacity and its laws make it easier to build new power plants. 

 But Ken Schrad, spokesman for the state`s regulatory commission, says there are no guarantees. 

 KEN SCHRAD, SPOKESMAN, STATE CORPORATION COMMISSION: To make promises that there will be savings or that what is happening in other states can`t happen here, we`re not making that promise. Virginia`s trying to learn. Virginia`s going to avoid those same mistakes because I mean we`re able to watch what`s happening in those other states. But we could be making our own mistakes and just don`t know it. 

 WOODS: Pilot projects in Virginia haven`t shown that deregulation will work as promised. Few competitors showed up to take on the incumbent electricity providers, and some businesses, like 7-Eleven (SE), figured costs would be higher, not lower, so they opted out of the experiment. Still, Dominion Resources CEO Tom Capps insists prices will be lower. 

 THOMAS CAPPS, CEO, DOMINION RESOURCES: Our rates are low, but you can, depending upon what you come in with, you can compete in Virginia and companies will do it and we`ll compete in other states and we look forward to stealing other people`s customers and I`m sure some of them will try to steal ours. That`s how the free market works. 

 WOODS: The promise of lower prices and new products has Virginia and 23 other states willing to give deregulation a chance. Operators of Virginia power`s grid are unlikely to have to deal with the same kind of supply and transmission problems that have plagued their California counterparts. But the effects of deregulation of Virginia consumers won`t be clear until 2007, when the states deregulation plan is set to be fully phased in. 

 Stephanie Woods, NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT, Richmond, Virginia. 

 KANGAS: Monday, be sure to watch our President`s Day special Where Best To Invest. 

 GHARIB: Attention K Mart (KM) shoppers, the checkout counters are moving faster. K Mart has signed a $200 million deal with IBM (IBM) to replace 2,100 cash registers with new, Internet enabled point of sale registers. The high tech machines will cut checkout times by 20 percent and let cashiers tell customers when out of stock merchandise will arrive. But K Mart`s stock fell $0.32 today to $8.88. IBM lost $1.78 to $115. 

 KANGAS: Just three weeks ago, the New York Stock Exchange switched over to an all decimal trading system. Today, the Exchange said it will investigate complaints and possible problems with the new system. Some of the Exchange`s biggest customers say trading in penny increments rather than fractions puts them at a disadvantage to floor specialists. But NYSE Chairman Richard Grasso says it will be at least April before any changes are made. 

 GHARIB: Coming up next week, Dow components Home Depot (HD) and Wal-Mart (WMT) report their earnings. Our Friday market monitor guest is Mark Leibovit (ph), the editor and publisher of VRTrader.com (ph). In our BridgeNews Watch, Monday, the markets are closed in observance of the Presidents Day holiday; Wednesday, the Consumer Price Index for January comes out; and on Thursday, it`s leading economic indicators for January. 

 KANGAS: My guest market monitor this week is Jim Stack, president of InvesTech Research, based in Whitefish, Montana. And it`s a pleasure to have you in our studios tonight, Jim. 

 JAMES STACK, PRESIDENT, INVESTECH RESEARCH: Thank you, Paul. It`s great to be here. 

 KANGAS: You know, it`s no secret that for almost three years you have been bearish on the stock market and the economy with the sharp sell-off last year and today as an example in particular. Along with all these corporate earnings warnings that we are getting, are you expecting more bad news? And, first of all, do you feel vindicated? 

 STACK: Well, I think we feel vindicated in our belief that there was a bubble in the market valuation. We`ve certainly seen the NASDAQ drop over 50 percent. 

 KANGAS: Right. 

 STACK: The economic news right now is bad and it`s going to get worse because we are in recession. No one wants to admit it yet, but the National Purchasing Managers Index is at a level hit only five times in the last three and a half decades. Every instance that it`s hit this level we were in a recession. And again today, the Consumer Sentiment Index is falling at a rate that invariably has led to a recession. So the Fed really has its hands full. 

 KANGAS: Are we going to have a recession with inflation as of today with that 1.1 percent rise in the Producer Price Index? 

 STACK: We are going to see lagging stagflation. 

 KANGAS: Yeah. 

 STACK: But the future inflation gauge coming out of ECRI, Economic Cycle Research Institute, is in a steep downtrend. I think it means the Federal Reserve is going to have room to ease and I think the Fed is going to get a lot more aggressive before this is over. 

 KANGAS: How about before the March 20th meeting? 

 STACK: If the Purchasing Managers Index is bad on the first of March or the employment report is bad by -- on the first Friday of March, the Fed will ease in the meantime. 

 KANGAS: OK. So, now, the market you were afraid of on your last visit with us on August 11th. You said the NASDAQ was way over valuated. And you had a few issues you did like. Stillwater Mining (SWC), Teleflex (TFX), R.R. Donnelly (DON). All of those are up 20 percent or more, and the only one that`s up just a little bit is Debold (ph). Are you still with those issues? And you`ve done very well with them. 

 STACK: Yes, we do like them, particularly Stillwater Mining, which is one, the major, the only major producer of platinum and palladium outside South Africa and Russia. 

 KANGAS: OK, now, the market outlook overall right now, after today`s steep sell-off. Is this a buying opportunity? 

 STACK: Ironically, Paul, we are starting to see the blocks drop into place. We`re not seeing the good valuation in the market overall, but we`re seeing some of the initial blocks drop into place. 

 KANGAS: Bullish blocks? 

 STACK: Bullish blocks. 

 KANGAS: Really? 

 STACK: Both in breadth and leadership. Some of our technical gauges are showing the best strength they`ve shown in years. I think most importantly is our MEP monetary model. We`ve talked about that many times in the program here. Our MEP is at its most bullish level in almost a decade. It means the Fed is aggressively easing. They`re going to get more aggressive and that monetary climate is going to provide a buying, a selective buying opportunity in what I would call the value issues out there. 

 KANGAS: The technology sell-off hasn`t brought value to that area yet, in your opinion? 

 STACK: It`s very important for investors to distinguish between bottom fishing and bargain hunting. A lot of investors are out there trying to bottom fish in the high tech stocks and they`re getting burned. They are getting hurt badly. What we are doing is we are bargain hunting in value stocks, those kind of stocks where you are getting excellent value, excellent earnings and revenue growth based on their historic strength. 

 KANGAS: OK, bring them on. Tell us which ones are your favorites. 

 STACK: Well, some of the stocks that we currently like are Englehard Corp., Genuine Parts (GPC), Phillips Petroleum (PLP) in the oil sector. In the utilities sector, another conservative pick would be XL Energy (ph). I think that`s a handful of well diversified, good value stocks that I think have most likely hit bottom ahead of the broader market hitting bottom in this bear market. 

 KANGAS: So where do you think this market will bottom, still a lot further down percentage-wise on the Dow and the NASDAQ or is it near there? 

 STACK: There are some dangerous excesses out there, particularly the valuation in the NASDAQ. The NASDAQ is still carrying a cumulative P/E. ratio close to 130. That`s still very high. Even on the blue chips S&P 500 Index, the valuation ratio, the P/E. ratio, is 24. That is too high to call it a good value. 

 KANGAS: OK. 

 STACK: So you really have to be selective. You have to go out there and really find value in this market and you have to count on the Federal Reserve following through, which I think they will. 

 STACK: You liked bonds last August and they had a very good rally. Do you like them now? And we just have a few seconds. 

 STACK: All four bond models that we track are still bullish. We would favor the investment grade corporate bonds, though, over the Treasuries because if the Fed is successful in halting the economic slide, or at least keeping the recession shallow, then bonds will do well. 

 KANGAS: OK, so don`t look for a bottom, look for a bargain? 

 STACK: That`s right. 

 KANGAS: Thanks very much, Jim. 

 STACK: My pleasure. 

 KANGAS: My guest, Jim Stack of InvesTech Research. 

 GHARIB: Recapping today`s market action, inflation, poor earnings and an air strike on Iraq take their toll on Wall Street today. The Dow falls 91 points. The NASDAQ loses 127. 

 And please be sure to join us at our World Wide Web site, NBR.com. 

 And finally, we`ve been hearing a lot lately about companies and cities cutting the fat from their budgets. But how about fat from their citizens? Philadelphia is launching a campaign to shed itself of the distinction of being named America`s fattest city two years ago. Mayor John Street has named a full time fitness czar and is encouraging residents to lose a combined 76 tons in 76 days. And believe it or not, it is possible. Out of one and a half million residents, Paul, if just 30,400 of them lose five pounds each, that will do it. 

 KANGAS: Ah, Philadelphia, the city of brotherly love handles. 

 GHARIB: I just want to know, Paul, though, how are they going to gauge the 76 tons? I mean do you have to go in for weigh-ins? I mean how are they going to do this? 

 KANGAS: You work out the details. 

 GHARIB: No, I don`t want to. We`ll leave that for Philadelphia. That`s NIGHTLY BUSINESS REPORT for us, Friday, February 16th. I`m Susie Gharib. Have a great weekend, everyone. And the same to you, Paul. 

 KANGAS: You too, Susie. I`m Paul Kangas wishing all of you the best of good buys. 

 END 

 TO PURCHASE A VIDEOTAPE OF THIS PIECE, PLEASE CALL  888-266-3601 

 Error! Not a valid filename. 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

Document nbr0000020010712dx2g0006j




 Hewlett-Packard Could See Rev Growth Improving In 2H 

919 words
15 February 2001
21:07
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


Hewlett-Packard Co. - Palo Alto, Calif.
   1st Quar Jan. 31:
                        2001             2000
Revenue          $11,948,000,000  $11,673,000,000
Net income         a 328,000,000    b 794,000,000
Avg shrs (basic)   1,930,000,000    1,997,000,000
Avg shrs (diluted) 1,996,000,000    2,086,000,000
Shr earns (basic)
 Net income                a .17            b .40
Shr earns (diluted)
 Net income                a .17            b .38



Figures in parentheses are losses.


 a. Includes a $365 million charge for impairment of investments in emerging companies, a $102 million charge for a work force reduction, a $44 million charge for in-process research and development costs and $26 million in goodwill amortization. Also includes gain of $23 million, or 1 cent a share, for early extinguishment of debt. Before items, pro forma earnings were 37 cents a share. Excluding only the gain on debt extinguishment, the company earned $305 million, or 16 cents a share. 

 b. Includes items. Before items, pro forma earnings were 40 cents a diluted share. 

 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HWP) met Wall Street's lowered expectation of 37 cents a share for the first quarter. The outlook, provided by a mean of 16 analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial, was scaled down after the computer maker warned in January of slumping demand and likely shortfalls in first quarter results. 

 Prior to Hewlett-Packard's profit warning, analysts had predicted 42 cents a share. 

 The company, which had disappointed analysts with its fourth quarter earnings of 45 cents a share, announced in late January that it would cut about 1,700 positions in a long-planned marketing restructuring. 

 Hewlett-Packard shares fell 13% on Nov. 13, following the fourth-quarter profit shortfall and news that the company was pulling out of talks to acquire Pricewaterhousecoopers LLC's consulting business. 

 Hewlett-Packard, which warned earlier that it didn't expect significant improvement in the second quarter, said Thursday that ongoing economic uncertainty in the U.S. might spread to other regions, especially those dependent on exports to the U.S. 

 Hewlett-Packard said it is maintaining its revenue growth guidance for the second fiscal quarter "in the low-to-mid single digits." Revenue for the second quarter ended April 30, 2000, was $12 billion. Before items, income from continuing operations was $899 million, or 87 cents a diluted share. 

 A First Call/Thomson Financial survey of 15 analysts yielded a mean earnings estimate of 40 cents a share for the current second quarter. 

 While warning of "extremely limited visibility," Hewlett-Packard projected revenue growth improvement in the second half, if the U.S. economy improves "as some economists expect" and current foreign exchange rates hold. 

 However, the company isn't counting on a return to double-digit revenue growth this year. 

 Hewlett-Packard had revenue of $48.8 billion for the year ended Oct. 31. Income from continuing operations was $3.6 billion, or $1.73 a diluted share. 

 A First Call survey of 16 analysts put income for the current fiscal year at $1.70 a share. 

 "Despite short-term challenges, we believe the markets we participate in offer strong growth opportunity going forward and we remain confident in our strategy,' the company said. 

 Hewlett-Packard attributed the "tough" first quarter to continued deterioration in the U.S. economy and related weakness in consumer and business IT spending. 

 Computing systems revenue rose 2% to $4.9 billion from $4.8 billion, though the unit posted a loss of $19 million in first quarter. Hewlett-Packard attributed the decline, from a year-ago profit of $190 million, to losses in the PC server and PC client business. Though UNIX server sales rose 6% and enterprise storage sales were up 20%, PC server and commercial desktop PC revenue were both down 11%. 

 Imaging and printing systems revenue was essentially flat for the quarter, at $5.0 billion, while IT services revenue rose 13% to $1.9 billion. 

 North American revenue declined by 6% year-over-year in the quarter, as the consumer and commercial desktop PC business and printer hardware business were hit hard by the difficult U.S. economy. 

 Hewlett-Packard's European operations posted 7% growth, Asia Pacific revenue rose 10% and Latin America revenue increased by 14%. 

 Hewlett-Packard reported that first quarter operating expenses rose 4% on a pro forma basis. Actual expense rose 6% to $11.3 billion from $10.7 billion. 

 Excluding all restructuring and acquisition charges, as well as goodwill amortization, "pro forma" income fell to $727 million from $825 million a year ago. 

 Hewlett-Packard, which ended the first quarter with $2.3 billion in cash and cash equivalents, wasn't alone in the technology sector in reporting weak earnings and recent job cuts. 

 Computer-maker Dell Computer Corp. (DELL) also announced earnings late Thursday, with fourth quarter operating earnings of 18 cents a share, a penny below scaled-down expectations. Earlier Thursday, Dell announced it would eliminate 1,700 positions to stay competitive in the softer global economic environment. 

 On Jan. 11, Gateway Inc. (GTW) said it would cut its work force by more than 10% in the first quarter. Meanwhile, 3Com Corp. (COMS) eliminated 2,600 jobs between March 20 and Dec. 1 by exiting various lines of business. 3Com also plans to make further cuts via layoffs and will provide more information by the end of February. 

 -Pamela Tate; Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5400 

Document dj00000020010711dx2f02iiy




today's top stories
COLDWATER TAKES A POUNDING -  

Evan Clark  
1,035 words
15 February 2001
Women's Wear Daily
WWD
5
English
Copyright 2001 Fairchild Publications, Inc. All Rights Reserved  

NEW YORK -- A dramatic, unexpected profit warning made  

Wednesday a crushing day on the stock market for Coldwater Creek  

Inc.  

Fourth-quarter earnings per diluted share are now expected to  

come in between 4 cents and 7 cents. The earnings drought, which  

promises to be a fraction of Wall Street's expectations of 66  

cents, comes primarily from a shortfall in full-price  

early-spring sales and ends what essentially had been a stellar  

fiscal streak for Coldwater Creek in recent years.  

The firm's stock Wednesday plummeted 43.4 percent, hitting a new  

52-week low of $15.31 in midday trading and closing at $20 on  

the Nasdaq. By the end of trading, the company had lost $162  

million of the nearly $374 million in market capitalization it  

had 24 hours earlier. The stock hit its 12-month high of $40.38  

on Sept. 14.  

Net income for the period is expected to be between $400,000 and  

$700,000. This compares to year-ago earnings of $6 million, or  

56 cents per diluted share. The Sandpoint, Idaho-based company  

expects sales to be $112 million to $117 million as increased  

clearance activity pushed revenues above their year-ago level of  

$102.1 million.  

Dennis Pence, chairman and president, said on a conference call  

Wednesday: ``We had no reason [previously] to believe that  

Coldwater Creek would be impacted so much by the promotional  

selling environment that has been holding the retailing industry  

hostage.  

``I certainly can' t recall another time when heavy discounting  

begun late in the year continued right through Christmas and  

into February of the following year at the magnitude at which it  

has. In the past, Coldwater Creek has not been affected that  

much by conditions impacting traditional retailers,'' added  

Pence.  

After a solid Christmas season, Coldwater said average order  

size decreased significantly in January and continued into  

February, primarily at its North Country catalog. Sixty-three  

percent of the firm's catalog circulation came from that title  

in January, creating wide-reaching financial impact on the  

overall company.  

Despite margin-killing discounts, the company said it remains  

committed to maintaining an inventory target of $72 million to  

$74 million for the end of the quarter.  

Georgia Shonk-Simmons, Coldwater's recently appointed chief  

executive officer, said that its customers just weren't  

responding to full-priced selling as they had in previous years.  

She blamed this on the beleaguered retail landscape and severe  

winter. The firm has, up until now, been enjoying strong  

full-price sales, despite many of the macroeconomic challenges  

facing the retail industry.  

``We were out possibly too early with too much spring  

merchandise,'' she admitted. The ceo stressed, however, that  

this was predominantly a financial and not a merchandising  

issue.  

The ceo added that fresh spring apparel was ``not what the  

customer is willing to spend her money on if she can't wear it  

right now.''  

Shonk-Simmons assumed the ceo post at Coldwater on Jan. 1.  

In the warning, she said, ``this [shortfall] has been occurring  

despite the fact that January merchandise offerings and the  

timing of our catalog mailing schedule were consistent with last  

year, when we enjoyed outstanding performance in our core  

business at full price.''  

Coldwater is adjusting by ``immediately ramping up clearance  

activities, which will continue through February, in an effort  

to maintain yearend inventories,'' said the ceo.  

Donald Robson, executive vice president and chief financial  

officer, said the company would also be ``working triple time to  

reel in that expense checkbook.''  

The firm, though, said it doesn't intend to cut back on its  

retail expansion plans or the development of its e-commerce  

business.  

Pence noted that Coldwater is proceeding toward a ``tripod''  

business model with catalog, Internet and retail channels, and  

to become more heavily weighted on the brick-and-mortar side.  

Stressing the importance of the different channels, he said on  

the call that a downturn like this would have exacted a greater  

toll two years ago, without an e-commerce presence to help clear  

inventory. In the future, when the company's three divisions are  

of more equal size, he noted that such surprises would hurt  

earnings less.  

Pence said that he felt confident the company would be able to  

``work through this difficult time for ourselves and the  

retailing industry in general.''  

``We are solid financially and in a good position to execute our  

fiscal 2001 initiatives,'' he said.  

Ken Gassman, an analyst with Davenport & Co., told WWD that it  

still wouldn't surprise him to see some slowing of the retail  

expansion, noting that the company said it would look to cut

costs everywhere including capital expenditure.  

The decreased order size obviously caught Coldwater off guard,  

after reporting all of its vital signs strong in a Dec. 20  

conference call and robust third-quarter results. Gassman said,  

though, that the firm's management was ``frank and open'' on the  

conference call -- an attitude that may have lessened the  

severity as Wall Street absorbed a surprise of this magnitude.  

He noted that Coldwater, to some degree, is following market  

trends which indicate that ``upper-end retailers have  

experienced more softness in demand'' than lower-end retailers.  

He pointed to the erratic stock market and tougher economy as  

important causes of jitters among high-end consumers.  

Buying cycles, according to the analyst, ``are getting shorter  

and shorter and people are buying closer to the need.'' If  

consumers are indeed buying more in season than they were last  

year, it would help explain the sales discrepancy.  

Twenty-twenty hindsight may allow one to say Coldwater made a  

merchandising mistake, but it would have also allowed praise for  

the market share gains had the company produced gains as it had  

in recent quarters.  

``You're either the hero or the goat, and right now they're the  

goat,'' said Gassman. ``Their business model is not broken.''  

If the question is whether or not you can still sell apparel to  

upscale consumers through a catalog, he said, the answer is yes.  

``The current financial situation is a speed bump on the fashion  

super highway,'' said Gassman.  

Document WWD0000020040514dx2f006am




 U.S. tech stocks up on semiconductors, blue chips off. 

 By Haitham Haddadin 
714 words
14 February 2001
20:23
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Feb 14 (Reuters) - Technology stocks surged in late afternoon trading on Wednesday on the coattails of semiconductor companies snapped up by bargain-hunters, but blue chips fell amid a raft of bleak corporate earnings. 

 The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index rose 56.91 points, or 2.34 percent, to 2484.63, having lost 1 percent early on. The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average was down 69.15 points, or 0.63 percent, at 10,834.17, but off session lows as it was helped by high-tech components. 

 Applied Materials Inc., the biggest manufacturer of gear for making computer chips, jumped $5-13/16 to $47-1/16 in very active trade on Nasdaq after Wall Street house J.P. Morgan Chase upped its investment rating, along with those of other sectoral firms, although the company trimmed quarterly expectations, citing a slowing economy and lower orders. 

 The Philadelphia Stock Exchange semiconductor index .SOXX) rose more than 7 percent, reflecting gains by other firms. 

 "Every day there had been less and less guidance and technology investors were looking for a hero and there has been none until Applied Materials stepped up and gave guidance for the second half of this year," said Scott Bleier, chief investment strategist at Prime Charter Ltd. 

 "Coming out of either a slowdown or a recession in technology, semiconductor and semiconductor equipment companies come out first," he said. 

 The broad Standard & Poor's 500 Index was down 2.23 points, or 0.17 percent, at 1,316.57. 

 The broad market was under a cloud after a number of companies reported quarterly earnings that either fell year-on-year or missed estimates, or warned about slower growth in the coming quarter. Among those ConAgra Foods Inc., the largest U.S. food-service manufacturer, fell $5.36 to $19.50 after lowering its near-term earnings estimates. 

 Technology stocks rebounded as investors moved back into the sector after the Nasdaq market dropped almost 2.5 percent on Tuesday. It touched its lowest close in five weeks after comments from Federal Reserve Alan Greenspan that day that he sees a year-end rebound in the economy dampened expectations for deep interest-rate cuts. 

 "We are not out of the woods yet in terms of disappointments," said Alan Ackerman, market strategist with Fahnestock & Co. "Earnings estimates continue to be cut and projections continue to fall short of the mark." 

 Greenspan's semi-annual economic diagnosis helped stall a market that still is in a relatively tight trading range, he said. "As a result many believe that with the bit of optimism expressed by Greenspan yesterday that rate cuts may not be as fast and furious as expected near-term," he added. 

 Declines in a number of Dow stocks accounted for much of the index's slump: diversified manufacturer Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing fell $3.11 to $111.03 and paper maker International Paper Co. $1.30 to $35.81. Drug giants Merck & Co. and Johnson & Johnson also fell. 

 But the index was helped by its technology components including computing giant International Business Machines and No. 1 chip maker Intel Corp. 

 "The wider market is suffering as a direct expense of the increased money flow into technology stocks," Bleier said. "The market is very symbiotic, one sector goes up while one goes down." 

 Nasdaq's most active stock was JDS Uniphase Corp., the world's top supplier of fiber-optic parts, which rebounded from an earlier decline after warning that earnings will miss Wall Street's estimates due to the soft U.S. economy and the JDS merger with SDL Inc.. JDS was last up 3/8 at $38-7/8. 

 Optical networking firm Sycamore Networks Inc. rose $3-3/4 to $26-5/16 after reporting earnings that beat forecasts but warned sequential growth would slow. 

 Other companies that disappointed included McGraw-Hill Cos. Inc., publisher of Business Week magazine, which fell $4.70 to $57.85, after warning of a sharply lower-than-expected first-quarter. TD Waterhouse Group Inc., the No. 2 U.S. discount broker, lost 83 cents to $13.57 after it said its first-quarter profit fell 35 percent. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2e06k8r




 U.S. tech stocks rally on semiconductors, blue chips fall. 

 By Haitham Haddadin 
860 words
14 February 2001
21:47
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Feb 14 (Reuters) - Technology stocks surged on Wednesday as investors snapped up computer chip makers and related companies after better-than-expected earnings from Applied Materials Inc. . 

 But blue chips fell amid a raft of bleak corporate earnings, including those of food supplier ConAgra Foods Inc. . The broader market was also weighed by lingering concern over Federal Reserve Alan Greenspan's comments Tuesday that he sees a year-end rebound in the U.S. economy, which dampened expectations for deep interest-rate cuts. 

 The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index rose 63.69 points, or 2.62 percent, to 2,491.41, after losing 1 percent early in the day. That brought the Nasdaq back into the black for the year - albeit up just 0.85 percent. 

 The blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average fell 107.91 points, or 0.99 percent, to 10,795.41. The broad Standard & Poor's 500 Index shed 2.88 points, or 0.22 percent, to 1,315.92. 

 "Technology investors were looking for a hero and there has been none until Applied Materials stepped up and gave guidance for the second half of this year," said Scott Bleier, chief investment strategist at Prime Charter Ltd. "Coming out of either a slowdown or a recession in technology, semiconductor and semiconductor equipment companies come out first." 

 Applied Materials, the biggest manufacturer of gear for making computer chips, jumped $5-9/16 to $46-13/16 in very active trade after Wall Street house J.P. Morgan Chase raised its investment rating, along with those of rivals. 

 The company reported quarterly results that beat diminished forecasts but trimmed expectations looking forward, citing a slowing economy and lower orders. Analysts said the economy's weakness was already factored into the shares and that recent selling had led to values for Applied Materials that many viewed to be a bargain. 

 Morgan noted that rates of decline in Applied's performance should moderate later in 2002, adding it is "encouraged" by the 2002 outlook. 

 The Philadelphia Stock Exchange semiconductor index rose 7.82 percent, reflecting gains by others like No. 1 computer chip maker Intel Corp , up $1-11/16 at $34-1/8. 

 J.P. Morgan Chase raised ratings on five semiconductor equipment makers, including KLA-Tencor Corp. , up $6 to $43-1/8, saying pressure on Applied Materials could mean a good time to buy KLA stock. 

 "Rotation has been a characteristic of this market and continues," said Alan Ackerman, market strategist with brokerage Fahnestock & Co. "Some bargain hunters are beginning to look for sold-out technology issues, which may rebound over the next few quarters in terms of earnings." 

 Among companies to disappoint investors was ConAgra Foods , the largest U.S. food-service manufacturer. Its stock fell $4.85 to $20.01 after the company cut near-term profit estimates. Campbell Soup Co. fell 71 cents to $30.02 after it reported a decline in quarterly profits and warned of lower future earnings because of increased competition. 

 McGraw-Hill Cos. Inc. , publisher of Business Week magazine, fell $4.40 to $58.15, after warning of a sharply lower-than-expected quarterly profit. TD Waterhouse Group Inc. , the No. 2 U.S. discount broker, lost 62 cents to $13.78 after it said its quarterly profits fell 35 percent. 

 Technology stocks rebounded as investors moved back into the sector after the Nasdaq market dropped almost 2.5 percent on Tuesday. The Nasdaq touched its lowest close in five weeks that day, following Greenspan's comments. 

 Two-thirds of top Wall Street bond dealers said after Greenspan's congressional testimony they expected a half-percentage-point drop in interest rates at the March 20 Fed meeting. The remainder saw a quarter-point reduction. 

 "The market can be perverse and people are actually focused on the fact that Greenspan wasn't negative enough - meaning very dramatic rate cuts are not imminent," said Rick Meckler, senior managing director at Liberty View, which oversees about $1 billion. "In the long run, the optimism he expressed is more bullish than bearish. It will just take time for investors to get over the short-term disappointments." 

 Declines in a number of Dow stocks accounted for much of the index's slump: diversified manufacturer Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing fell $3.17 to $110.97 and paper maker International Paper Co. lost $1.01 to $36.10. Drug giants Merck & Co. and Johnson & Johnson also fell. 

 But the Dow got a lift from its technology components, including computing giant International Business Machines Corp. , up $1.35 to $115.10. 

 Nasdaq's most active stock was JDS Uniphase Corp. , the world's top supplier of fiber-optic parts, which rebounded from an earlier decline after warning that earnings will miss Wall Street's estimates due to the soft U.S. economy. JDS closed up $2-3/4 to $41-1/4. 

 Optical networking firm Sycamore Networks Inc. rose $3-3/4 to $26-5/16 after reporting earnings that beat forecasts. Sycamore also warned sequential growth would slow. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2e06k1g




 FFBN Tech Wrap: Chip Equipment Index Surges 12% 

2,088 words
14 February 2001
22:33
Federal Filings Newswires
FF
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


ISSUER: FEDERAL FILINGS
SYMBOL: X.FFI
        WASHINGTON (FFBN)--After falling early in the session, technology
stocks staged a turnaround Wednesday, with the software and semiconductor
sectors racking up the most gains based on market value.  The Federal Filings
Business News Technology Index advanced 706.55, or 3.7%, to close at 19,995.



        The semiconductor equipment sector turned in its best performance
this year, following Applied Materials Corp.'s third quarter earnings that
topped estimates.  Although the company lowered its second quarter estimates,
its shares shot up 5.56, or 13%, to 46.81.  Analysts said the fact that the
company's business is down 20% might be an indication that the group is
hitting bottom.
        Elsewhere in the sector, shares of KLA-Tencor Corp. advanced six
points, or 16%, to 43.13, and Teradyne Inc. shares moved up 4.22, or 12%, to
39.35.  The FFBN Chip Equipment Index rallied 23.90, or 12%, to 225.10.
        Among chipmakers, whose FFBN Index advanced 235.47, or 4.9%, to
5047.21, Micron Technology Inc. vaulted five points, or 12%, to 46.50.
Topping Micron's gain on a percentage basis, shares of Elantec Semiconductor
Inc. moved up 6.13, or 19%, to 39.44.  Intel Corp. shares gained 1.69, or
5.2%, to 34.13, and Texas Instruments Inc. shares moved up 1.34, or 3.6%, to
38.75.
        The FFBN Software Index climbed 183.56, or 3.6%, to 5339.08.
Heavyweight Oracle Corp.'s shares improved 2.44, or 11%, to 25, and Veritas
Software Corp. put on 6.75, or 10%, to close at 76.38.  Mercury Interactive
Corp. shares shot up 10.19, or 15%, to end at 77.06.
        Network equipment maker Netegrity Inc.'s shares advanced 6.19, or
13%, helping push the FFBN Network Equipment Index ahead 126.85, or 4.8%, to
2756.02.  After hovering near its 52-week low early in the day, shares of JDS
Uniphase Corp. regained 2.75, or 7.1%, to close at 41.25.  A day earlier the
company lowered guidance for its third quarter, but most analysts agreed that
the lowered outlook was already priced into the stock.
        Cisco Systems Inc. shares advanced 0.88, or 3.1%, to 29.28, and Sun
Microsystems Inc. shares moved up 1.56, or 6.2%, to close at 26.69.
COMPANY NEWS:
                                        Net      Pct      EPS      EPS
                             Close    Change   Change     01E      02E
JDS UNIPHASE CORP. (JDSU)    41.25     +2.75    +7.1%    $0.82    $1.11
JDS Uniphase closed its merger with SDL Inc. (SDLI) and issued a profitwarning after the market closed Tuesday. The company now expects third
quarter earnings of 17 cents a share on sales of about $1 billion, and 2001
earnings of 74 cents a share on sales of $3.9 billion.  JDS Uniphase said its
third quarter and fiscal-year guidance incorporates the results of JDS and
SDL.  Analysts had expected JDS Uniphase to post third-quarter earnings of 21
cents a share and fiscal 2001 earnings of 82 cents a share.
Adams Harkness lowered its rating on the company to market perform from buy,
while SG Cowen cut its rating on JDS Uniphase to buy from strong buy.
                                        Net      Pct      EPS      EPS
                             Close    Change   Change     01E      02E
APPLIED MATERIALS (AMAT)     46.81     +5.56   +13.5%    $1.93    $2.27
Topping analysts' estimates by 4 cents share, Applied Materials reported
first-quarter earnings of $558 million, or 66 cents a share, excluding items.
In the year-ago period, the company posted net income of $327 million, or 39
cents a share, on sales of $1.72 billion.
However, the company lowered its second quarter estimates and said it's
cutting costs through measures such as reducing the number of temporary
workers.  The company lowered its second-quarter estimate to $1.9 billion to
$2 billion in revenue and earnings between 32 cents to 37 cents a share.
Analysts were expecting revenue of $2.4 billion and earnings of 49 cents a
share.
JP Morgan upgraded its rating on the company to long-term buy from market
perform.
                                        Net      Pct      EPS      EPS
                             Close    Change   Change     01E      02E
KULICKE & SOFFA (KLIC)       14.56     +0.75    +5.4%    $0.33    $1.13
Kulicke & Soffa Industries Inc. said it will lay off 300 workers, or 7% of
its work force, as part of a cost-cutting plan. The company said most of the
job cuts will take place in the current quarter and include positions in the
equipment segment, which has experienced weakened business conditions.
Kulicke & Soffa added it doesn't expect its business to improve before the
end of the year.
                                        Net      Pct      EPS      EPS
                             Close    Change   Change     01E      02E
NOVELLUS SYSTEMS (NVLS)      43.94     +5.19   +13.4%    $2.08    $2.25
KLA-TENCOR CORP. (KLAC)      43.13     +6.00   +16.2%    $2.12    $1.78
JP Morgan upgraded its ratings on Novellus Systems Inc. and KLA-Tencor to
long-term buy from market perform.



17:33



ISSUER: FEDERAL FILINGS
SYMBOL: X.FFI
=======================================================================
THE FEDERAL FILINGS TECHNOLOGY INDEXES
=======================================================================
INDEX                               CLOSE    NET CH    PCT CH    YTD CH
=======================================================================
FEDERAL FILINGS TECHNOLOGY INDEX  19995.00   706.55     3.66%     6.03%
=======================================================================
COMPUTER & RELATED EQUIPMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Computer                           4134.89    72.22     1.78%    29.53%
Storage                            1045.63    20.16     1.97%   -16.40%
Peripheral                           72.55    -0.13    -0.18%    16.49%
Networking                         2756.02   126.85     4.82%   -15.86%
Electronics & Circuit Boards        602.73    27.56     4.79%     4.42%
=======================================================================
SOFTWARE & PROGRAMMING
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Software                           5339.08   183.56     3.56%    11.81%
Programming & Information Svcs      133.75     0.38     0.29%    11.10%
=======================================================================
SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED EQUIPMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Semiconductor                      5047.21   235.47     4.89%     6.39%
Semiconductor Equipment             225.10    23.90    11.88%    21.41%
=======================================================================
INTERNET                            638.03    16.59     2.67%    -5.37%
=======================================================================
Al Hennagir
Technology Reporter
(202)628-9793
e-mail: alan.hennagir@dowjones.com
Carrie DeLeon
Technology Reporter
(202) 628-7663
e-mail: carrie.deleon@dowjones.com
Note: All earnings estimates provided by Zacks Investment Research.  Index
components are available on request.



17:33



ISSUER: FEDERAL FILINGS
SYMBOL: X.FFI
        (This market wrap was originally published Wednesday evening.)
        WASHINGTON (FFBN)--After falling early in the session, technology
stocks staged a turnaround Wednesday, with the software and semiconductor
sectors racking up the most gains based on market value.  The Federal Filings
Business News Technology Index advanced 706.55, or 3.7%, to close at 19,995.
        The semiconductor equipment sector turned in its best performance
this year, following Applied Materials Corp.'s third quarter earnings that
topped estimates.  Although the company lowered its second quarter estimates,
its shares shot up 5.56, or 13%, to 46.81.  Analysts said the fact that the
company's business is down 20% might be an indication that the group is
hitting bottom.
        Elsewhere in the sector, shares of KLA-Tencor Corp. advanced six
points, or 16%, to 43.13, and Teradyne Inc. shares moved up 4.22, or 12%, to
39.35.  The FFBN Chip Equipment Index rallied 23.90, or 12%, to 225.10.
        Among chipmakers, whose FFBN Index advanced 235.47, or 4.9%, to
5047.21, Micron Technology Inc. vaulted five points, or 12%, to 46.50.
Topping Micron's gain on a percentage basis, shares of Elantec Semiconductor
Inc. moved up 6.13, or 19%, to 39.44.  Intel Corp. shares gained 1.69, or
5.2%, to 34.13, and Texas Instruments Inc. shares moved up 1.34, or 3.6%, to
38.75.
        The FFBN Software Index climbed 183.56, or 3.6%, to 5339.08.
Heavyweight Oracle Corp.'s shares improved 2.44, or 11%, to 25, and Veritas
Software Corp. put on 6.75, or 10%, to close at 76.38.  Mercury Interactive
Corp. shares shot up 10.19, or 15%, to end at 77.06.
        Network equipment maker Netegrity Inc.'s shares advanced 6.19, or
13%, helping push the FFBN Network Equipment Index ahead 126.85, or 4.8%, to
2756.02.  After hovering near its 52-week low early in the day, shares of JDS
Uniphase Corp. regained 2.75, or 7.1%, to close at 41.25.  A day earlier the
company lowered guidance for its third quarter, but most analysts agreed that
the lowered outlook was already priced into the stock.
        Cisco Systems Inc. shares advanced 0.88, or 3.1%, to 29.28, and Sun
Microsystems Inc. shares moved up 1.56, or 6.2%, to close at 26.69.
COMPANY NEWS:
                                        Net      Pct      EPS      EPS
                             Close    Change   Change     01E      02E
JDS UNIPHASE CORP. (JDSU)    41.25     +2.75    +7.1%    $0.82    $1.11
JDS Uniphase closed its merger with SDL Inc. (SDLI) and issued a profitwarning after the market closed Tuesday. The company now expects third
quarter earnings of 17 cents a share on sales of about $1 billion, and 2001
earnings of 74 cents a share on sales of $3.9 billion.  JDS Uniphase said its
third quarter and fiscal-year guidance incorporates the results of JDS and
SDL.  Analysts had expected JDS Uniphase to post third-quarter earnings of 21
cents a share and fiscal 2001 earnings of 82 cents a share.
Adams Harkness lowered its rating on the company to market perform from buy,
while SG Cowen cut its rating on JDS Uniphase to buy from strong buy.
                                        Net      Pct      EPS      EPS
                             Close    Change   Change     01E      02E
APPLIED MATERIALS (AMAT)     46.81     +5.56   +13.5%    $1.93    $2.27
Topping analysts' estimates by 4 cents share, Applied Materials reported
first-quarter earnings of $558 million, or 66 cents a share, excluding items.
In the year-ago period, the company posted net income of $327 million, or 39
cents a share, on sales of $1.72 billion.
However, the company lowered its second quarter estimates and said it's
cutting costs through measures such as reducing the number of temporary
workers.  The company lowered its second-quarter estimate to $1.9 billion to
$2 billion in revenue and earnings between 32 cents to 37 cents a share.
Analysts were expecting revenue of $2.4 billion and earnings of 49 cents a
share.
JP Morgan upgraded its rating on the company to long-term buy from market
perform.
                                        Net      Pct      EPS      EPS
                             Close    Change   Change     01E      02E
KULICKE & SOFFA (KLIC)       14.56     +0.75    +5.4%    $0.33    $1.13
Kulicke & Soffa Industries Inc. said it will lay off 300 workers, or 7% of
its work force, as part of a cost-cutting plan. The company said most of the
job cuts will take place in the current quarter and include positions in the
equipment segment, which has experienced weakened business conditions.
Kulicke & Soffa added it doesn't expect its business to improve before the
end of the year.
                                        Net      Pct      EPS      EPS
                             Close    Change   Change     01E      02E
NOVELLUS SYSTEMS (NVLS)      43.94     +5.19   +13.4%    $2.08    $2.25
KLA-TENCOR CORP. (KLAC)      43.13     +6.00   +16.2%    $2.12    $1.78
JP Morgan upgraded its ratings on Novellus Systems Inc. and KLA-Tencor to
long-term buy from market perform.



08:05



ISSUER: FEDERAL FILINGS
SYMBOL: X.FFI
=======================================================================
THE FEDERAL FILINGS TECHNOLOGY INDEXES
=======================================================================
INDEX                               CLOSE    NET CH    PCT CH    YTD CH
=======================================================================
FEDERAL FILINGS TECHNOLOGY INDEX  19995.00   706.55     3.66%     6.03%
=======================================================================
COMPUTER & RELATED EQUIPMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Computer                           4134.89    72.22     1.78%    29.53%
Storage                            1045.63    20.16     1.97%   -16.40%
Peripheral                           72.55    -0.13    -0.18%    16.49%
Networking                         2756.02   126.85     4.82%   -15.86%
Electronics & Circuit Boards        602.73    27.56     4.79%     4.42%
=======================================================================
SOFTWARE & PROGRAMMING
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Software                           5339.08   183.56     3.56%    11.81%
Programming & Information Svcs      133.75     0.38     0.29%    11.10%
=======================================================================
SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED EQUIPMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Semiconductor                      5047.21   235.47     4.89%     6.39%
Semiconductor Equipment             225.10    23.90    11.88%    21.41%
=======================================================================
INTERNET                            638.03    16.59     2.67%    -5.37%
=======================================================================
Al Hennagir
Technology Reporter
(202)628-9793
e-mail: alan.hennagir@dowjones.com
Carrie DeLeon
Technology Reporter
(202) 628-7663
e-mail: carrie.deleon@dowjones.com
Note: All earnings estimates provided by Zacks Investment Research.  Index
components are available on request.



08:05


Document ff00000020010711dx2e009qd




 Schlumberger says Sema not ideal takeover. 

719 words
13 February 2001
17:33
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 By Lucas van Grinsven, European technology correspondent 

 LONDON, Feb 13 (Reuters) - Schlumberger chief executive Euan Baird on Tuesday dismissed doubts over the takeover of Anglo-French information technology company Sema, but acknowledged it may not be an ideal acquistion. 

 "This may not be the best takeover that Schlumberger ever did, but it is certainly the friendliest," he told a small group of journalists here. 

 New York-based Schlumberger said on Monday it had agreed to buy troubled Sema for $5.2 billion in cash. 

 Baird said that oil industry analysts who cover his company had always opposed the firm's venturing into other areas such as smart cards and semiconductor testing, but Baird justified this acquisition by saying that ..."the information technology is just beginning and we want to be part of it". 

 Baird, who is in London with Sema chief executive Pierre Bonelli to rally investors behind the proposed takeover, said it would be successful if integration was achieved of three vertical units: telecoms, utilities and networking activities. 

 "That's the low hanging fruit," Baird said. 

 It would still take two years to pick that fruit, because Baird said on Monday that the takeover would dilute earnings before amortisation of intangible assets in 2001 and 2002, and would become neutral in 2003. "It takes time to find baskets and get that fruit," he remarked. 

 He described the takeover as "fast and friendly", aimed at retaining key Sema personel. But he also said that Schlumberger had not rummaged through all the closets in its 10 days of due diligence. 

 "It was actually a bit longer than 10 days because we had been talking for a while. We didn't look in all the closets, but tell me an acquistion in which a company has done," said Baird. 

 Sema's main problem, stemming from the poor performance of last year's takeover of mobile phone billing company LHS which failed to grow, was looked at. 

 "The conclusion was: 'Yes, Sema had problems with LHS, but it has been stabilised and will be well in 2001'," Baird said. 

 Bonelli said Sema would benefit from the postponement of third generation mobile phone networks as it would be able to milk its existing second generation billing technology, and extensions for 2.5 generation mobile networks. 

 "For 2.5G we're in pretty good shape," Bonelli said. 

 SYNERGIES? 

 Analysts have difficulty seeing synergies between Schlumberger, an oil exploration technology company which also has a smart card business, and Sema, which is big in IT services for telecom companies, banks, governments and transport firms. Only a few months ago, that view did not appear dissimilar to Schlumberger's own. 

 In fact, Baird said that Schlumberger had only seen opportunities for one or two joint ventures when it was talking to Sema last year, before Sema had to give up the notion of independence after it issued a profit warning on 25 November. "We (Baird and Bonelli) discarded a couple of ideas, but we retained utilities and telecoms as the most attractive," Baird said. 

 Schlumberger wanted to expand its only major non-oil business, the smart card unit, with services. With these it could offer complete solutions to public transport companies looking for automated payment services and telecom operators who want to sell personalised mobile phones. 

 Schlumberger was also looking for integration and outsourcing skills to complement its oil services. 

 In networks it saw some potential synergies, as Schlumberger was already pioneering security smart cards, and needed services to implement entire systems. 

 NO TAKEOVER INTENDED 

 Schlumberger had not intended to buy Sema. "We wanted to take a stake. 20 percent would be appropriate," Baird said. 

 However, after Sema's profit warning shareholders wanted to realise the value that was still in it, and urged to put it up for sale. Schlumberger stepped in to cut off rival bids. 

 "We did not want the company to fall in the hands of others, and the corporate culture is very similar," Baird said. 

 Both companies have multi-national headquarters, are technology-focused and are led by engineers. 

 "It would have been difficult to find this fit with one of our competitors," Bonelli said. 

 Sema had also talked to Cap Gemini, and Schlumberger has held talks with PricewaterhouseCoopers, U.S. service providers and SAIC. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2d06lk0




 RESEARCH ALERT-CSFB cuts Nice target. 

109 words
13 February 2001
10:57
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 TEL AVIV, Feb 13 (Reuters) - Credit Suisse First Boston cut its price target for Nice Systems to $18 a share from $24 after the Israeli maker of multimedia digital recording systems issued a second profit warning in six weeks. 

 Analyst Ehud Helft said that while Nice's technology was strong, management had yet to to prove it can turn the company around. 

 "We will be watching for success signs, but for the time being we are maintaining our hold recommendation," Helft said in a report dated February 9 and released on Tuesday. 

 Nice shares closed at $15-1/16 on Monday on Nasdaq. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2d06gpc




THE MARKETS: Market Place
 Business/Financial Desk; Section C 
 Debt Rating For Lucent Is  Cut  Again  

 By SIMON ROMERO  
941 words
13 February 2001
The New York Times
NYTF
Page 1, Column 5
English
(c) 2001 New York Times Company 

 The news continues to worsen for Lucent Technologies, which has been effectively shut out of the short-term financing market.  

 The nation's biggest credit-rating companies, Standard & Poor's and Moody's Investors Service, yesterday lowered their ratings on the debt of Lucent to one notch above the junk level. Since October, when the company's board fired its chief executive, Lucent's debt ratings have been cut four times as questions have mounted about past revenues and regulators have begun looking into its accounting practices.  

 The company was a Wall Street darling until about a year ago, soaring after its spinoff from AT&T in 1996. In early 2000, though, it warned that earnings would not meet expectations, and earnings and revenues actually declined in subsequent quarters. Struggling to get back on track, Lucent recently announced plans to cut 10,000 employees and take a charge of $1.2 billion this year to cover the cost of severance and a reorganization.  

 If the debt agencies cut their ratings again, and both agencies said the outlook for Lucent remained negative, the company could be dropped by many stock and bond investors who prefer companies considered investment grade, instead of speculative grade.  

 ''I'm obviously unpleasantly surprised by the downgrades,'' said Jeffrey Heil, director of equity investments for the regents of the University of California, which owns about 10 million shares of Lucent after selling 8 million shares several months ago.  

 While a downgrade to junk status would not force Mr. Heil to sell the stock, he said others might do so. ''This is distressing for financing costs, not to mention the stigma of coming so close to junk,'' he said.  

 Already, the downgrades put the company's commercial paper off limits for money market funds, making it virtually impossible for Lucent to issue paper, used by companies to ensure that they have enough cash day to day.  

 Though the recent downgrades are reminiscent of the ratcheting down of the Xerox Corporation in recent months, Lucent does not have such severe problems. Lucent has less short-term debt coming due than Xerox, the debt analysts pointed out. And the possibility of a default by Lucent remains remote, they said.  

 With the specter of a junk rating hanging in the air, some of Lucent's biggest creditors are already treating the company's debt as if it were speculative grade. Lucent is seeking about $4.5 billion of 364-day financing from J. P. Morgan Chase and Salomon Smith Barney, but the banks have asked the company to secure the credit with assets. In addition, Lucent is trying to amend $2 billion in five-year financing, which the company will also have to back with assets. The company expects to complete negotiations on both credits soon.  

 The requests from the banks are rare for a company with investment-grade status and with the recent eminence of Lucent. Since Lucent issued its first profit warning 13 months ago, the spreads on its 30-year bonds have widened to nearly 4.50 percentage points more than comparable Treasury securities, from 1.30 percentage points, indicating how much more costly capital has become for the company.  

 Lucent's stock, which soared above $77 at the end of 1999, fell 56 cents yesterday to close at $14.80.  

 The latest downgrade will have one immediate impact. Last fall, Lucent transferred a portion of its vendor financing, which it extends to help others buy its products, to a separate entity. Under an agreement with its creditors, that $1.1 billion in the form of asset-backed commercial paper could remain separate as long as Lucent's credit ratings stayed at or above a certain level. Now, Lucent will be unable to transfer more vendor financing from its own books to the entity. That could put pressure on the company's overall debt. As of Dec. 31, the company had $5 billion in debt that will expire within a year and $3.1 billion in longer-term debt.  

 ''Lucent has clearly lost its pristine financial standing,'' said Phillip Olesen, an analyst of investment-grade telecommunications debt at UBS Warburg. ''This puts management on a very short string to get Lucent back on its feet.''  

 Henry B. Schacht, Lucent's first chief executive who returned to the corporate office in October, has begun a broad reorganization including the spinoff of Lucent's microelectronics and optical components operations into a company called Agere, which will have about 16,500 employees and operating cash flow of $762 million. The company will also eliminate some product lines and sell factories in Columbus, Ohio, and Oklahoma City.  

 ''Our foundations are sound as our restructuring program starts to turn us around,'' said Kathleen Fitzgerald, a spokeswoman for Lucent. ''There is no crisis pending.''  

 Lucent, which is based in Murray Hill, N.J., remains one of the world's largest makers of communications equipment. It still has 23 of the 25 largest communications companies as its clients, according to a report by Thomas Weisel Partners. And the company continues to secure important contracts. Verizon Communications yesterday selected Lucent as one of its main suppliers for its international expansion.  

 But in the bond market, Lucent must now pay more than competitors like Nortel Networks and Cisco Systems to raise capital. ''Lucent is in a different ZIP code from its telecom peers,'' said Glenn Reynolds, the chief executive of Creditsights Inc., a credit research company. ''They are on a lower rung of the credit food chain.''  

Document nytf000020010712dx2d008e4




BUSINESS BRIEFS
 Business 
 Briefly 

1,268 words
13 February 2001
The News & Observer
RNOB
Final
D2
English
 (Copyright 2001) 

 North Carolina 

 Marion Bass sells N.C. stock operations 

 RALEIGH --- Marion Bass Securities has sold its North Carolina stock brokerage operations to a larger competitor from New York. 

 The Charlotte-based investment banking and brokerage firm sold its retail brokerage accounts in Raleigh and Charlotte to Josephthal & Co. of New York, which has 25 offices and 900 employees nationwide. Fifty-five stockbrokers and support staff will move from Marion Bass to Josephthal. 

 Marion Bass will retain its investment banking operations in Charlotte. The firm is focusing on investment banking because profit margins on stock trades have become too narrow, said Benjamin Brooks, former chief executive officer of Marion Bass and now senior vice president at Josephthal. 

 * * * 

 Nation 

 Bush's pick likely to alter antitrust focus 

 WASHINGTON -- The lawyer expected to be President Bush's pick to head the U.S. Justice Department's antitrust division will narrow the scope of the agency's enforcement, legal experts said. 

 Washington lawyer Charles A. James, an antitrust enforcer during the past two Republican administrations, will be nominated by Bush to the position of assistant U.S. attorney general for antitrust, people familiar with the president's decision said. 

 Legal experts described James, who served as acting head of the antitrust division in 1992, as more conservative in his approach to antitrust enforcement than Democrats who have led agency's efforts for the past eight years. He is less likely to bring cases like the government's antitrust case against Microsoft or the lawsuit to end joint control of Visa and MasterCard by major U.S. banks, they said. 

 If named by Bush and confirmed by the Senate, James, 46, would become the first African-American to head the division permanently. He was acting assistant attorney general in charge of it for several months in 1992 during the administration of Bush's father. 

 * * * 

 Ford, Navistar form truck venture 

 DEARBORN, Mich. -- Ford and Navistar said they'll form a joint venture to build commercial trucks and may cooperate on diesel engines for Fords as declining sales hurt truckmakers, Bloomberg News reported. 

 The 50-50 venture of the world's No. 2 automaker and No. 4 truckmaker will build medium-duty vehicles at a Navistar plant in Mexico to be sold under both Ford and Navistar's International brands in North America, the companies said. 

 Some analysts said the move raises antitrust issues. "Given that Navistar's No. 1 in medium trucks and Ford's No. 4, this transaction will face scrutiny," said Goldman Sachs analyst Joanna Shatney. 

 The companies told analysts and reporters that they don't expect significant regulatory opposition because it's a "product-only" agreement emphasizing distinct brands and distribution networks. 

 * * * 

 Microsoft to unveil new Windows today 

 REDMOND, Wash. -- Microsoft will unveil a new, Web-friendlier version of its Windows operating system today as it tries to boost sales, Bloomberg News reported. The No. 1 software maker plans to start selling the new program in the second half of this year. 

 The company is adding features that make it easier to download music, process digital photos and use the Internet. Windows XP is the biggest overhaul of the company's consumer operating system since Windows 95. 

 Microsoft, which cut its profit forecasts for this year because of a PC-industry slump, is counting on the new product to spur sales growth. "Ninety-five percent of Microsoft's operating profit is from Office and Windows," said Henry Blodget, a Merrill Lynch analyst. "If the growth of those businesses isn't strong, nothing will offset it." 

 * * * 

 Short-term T-bill rates down in auction 

 WASHINGTON -- Interest rates on short-term Treasury securities fell in Monday's auction. The Treasury Department sold $11 billion in three-month bills at a discount rate of 4.90 percent, down from 4.92 percent last week. An additional $10 billion was sold in six-month bills at 4.745 percent, down from 4.755 percent. 

 The three-month rate was the lowest since Oct. 12, 1999. The six- month rate was the lowest since July 26, 1999. 

 In a separate report, the Federal Reserve said Monday that the average yield for one-year Treasury bills, the most popular index for making changes in adjustable-rate mortgages, rose to 4.72 percent last week from 4.66 percent. 

 * * * 

 Kournikova virus slams e-mail systems 

 SAN FRANCISCO -- A fast-spreading computer virus posing as a photograph of tennis star Anna Kournikova has infected systems at scores of companies in Europe and the United States, antivirus software company experts said. 

 The electronic-mail-borne virus mainly creates a nuisance by clogging e-mail systems. It doesn't appear to erase any personal- computer files, experts said. 

 Machines of users who attempt to download the picture of Kournikova become infected. The virus then e-mails itself to users listed in the infected computer's e-mail address book. Only users with Microsoft's Outlook e-mail software are infected. 

 Graham Cluley, senior technology consultant at Sophos Anti-Virus, said the virus writer skillfully combined "the temptation of the teenage tennis star with the average fantasy of the guy who sits in front of the computer terminal." 

 * * * 

 Chairman and CEO of Zale resigns 

 DALLAS -- Zale said Monday that its chairman and chief executive has resigned. The nation's largest specialty jewelry retailer also said it would delay the release of its latest quarterly financial results. 

 Shares of Zale were down $3.40 to $31.90 Monday. 

 Zale said top executive Beryl Raff would be replaced by former CEO Robert J. DiNicola. Raff resigned to spend more time with her family and on personal interests, the company said. Named to the top job in September 1999, Raff became one of only a few women leading large U.S. retail companies. 

 DiNicola, who held the job from April 1994 through September 1999, engineered a turnaround of the retailer that had sought protection under federal bankruptcy laws in 1992. 

 In November, the company issued a profit warning for its first fiscal quarter and said same-store sales growth in the three months ended Oct. 31 had slowed to 3.3 percent from 10.1 percent a year earlier. 

 * * * 

 Merger creates top mid-Atlantic utility 

 WILMINGTON, Del. -- Potomac Electric Power is buying Conectiv for $5.4 billion in cash, stock, and assumed debt - a deal that would create the largest electric utility in the mid-Atlantic region. 

 Under the deal announced Monday, the companies would become subsidiaries of an unnamed holding company serving more than 1.8 million customers in Delaware, Washington, Maryland, New Jersey and Virginia. 

 Pepco stockholders would own about two-thirds of the combined company, with Conectiv shareholders owning the rest. 

 * * * 

 World 

 U.S. company making $5.2 billion purchase 

 LONDON -- U.S. energy-services company Schlumberger is buying Sema, a British information technology services concern, for $5.2 billion. The acquisition would help New York-based Schlumberger enlarge its growing systems-integration business, particularly in the development of smart cards, or wallet-sized devices embedded with microchips. 

 Pierre Bonelli, who will continue as Sema's chief executive after the deal, said Schlumberger will provide Sema "with the scale and stability to continue to prosper" while generating significant new opportunities to develop the business. 

 Under the deal, Schlumberger is offering 560 pence ($8.09) in cash for each Sema share, a premium of nearly 18 percent from Friday's close in London. 

 Sema shares rose 77.5 pence, or 16 percent, at 552.5 pence in London. Schlumberger fell $7.70 to $70.50 in New York. 

Document rnob000020010713dx2d004l7




 Technology Journal: Bizbytes 

571 words
12 February 2001
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
28
English
 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Amazon Will Close 

 Netherlands Facility 

 Amazon.com Inc.'s European unit will close a customer-service center in The Hague, Netherlands, that employs 240 people, as part of its parent company's plan to make a profit by the end of this year. 

 The Seattle-based Internet retailing company said the center's 240 employees will have the option of moving to service centers in Regensberg, Germany, or Slough, England. Amazon.com's European unit employs about 1,800 workers. 

 The company recently said it would close a Seattle customer service center and a McDonough, Georgia, distribution center, and lay off 1,300 people as part of a similar restructuring in the U.S. 

 --- 

 OmniSky Improves 

 Forecast for Quarter 

 OmniSky Corp., underscoring the growth of the hand-held computer industry and the market for services for them, said it will post a narrower-than-expected quarterly loss and projected it would have positive cash flow by the fourth quarter of 2002, one year earlier than anticipated. 

 OmniSky said its revenue for the fourth quarter of 2000 would range from $4 million (4.32 million euros) to $4.6 million, in line with analysts' consensus of $4.4 million. The Palo Alto, California, company expects to report a net loss, including amortization, of 60 U.S. cents to 63 U.S. cents a share. In contrast, analysts had forecast a loss of 73 U.S. cents a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 OmniSky provides wireless e-mail and Internet access to users of Palm Inc., Handspring Inc. and Microsoft Corp. hand-held computer devices. 

 --- 

 Matsushita Scrambles 

 Toward 3-G Launch 

 Matsushita Communication Industries Co., reeling from a delayed product launch and a profit warning, is scrambling to be ready for the start of key next-generation wireless phone services. 

 "It's true that we're a little bit behind schedule," said Osamu Waki, a Matsushita Communication director in charge of third-generation, or 3G, handsets. "But somehow or other we'll make it." 

 Also creating headaches for the company is slow growth in the European market for WAP, or wireless application protocol, handsets, which allow users limited access to the Internet but have so far generated tepid interest among consumers. 

 --- 

 AdAlive Connects 

 Billboards to Web 

 AdAlive, based in Waltham, Massachusetts, has started putting infrared-access points for handheld-computer devices, in some billboards in the American Airlines terminal at New York's Kennedy Airport. Travelers can call up their e-mail, view activity guides and get local restaurant ratings from Zagat. AdAlive has a partnership with SkySite, which owns billboards in most airports. AdAlive says advertisers pay a 25% premium above the $2,000 (2,159.48 euros) to $4,000 a month standard, to have an access point on the billboard. 

 --- 

 Web Consultant Zefer 

 Lays Off 15% of Staff 

 Zefer Corp., which last year tried and failed to raise money on the public markets on two separate occasions, laid off 120 employees, or 15% of its 800 workers, last week. 

 The Boston-based Internet consultant cut jobs in an effort to extend last quarter's profitability in the face of slowing revenue growth, said Sara Buda, a company spokeswoman, declining to comment on specific revenue or other financial details of the closely held company. 

 Web services firms have been among the hardest hit by the Internet downturn. 

 --- 

 Compiled by Edward Harris from staff and wire reports. 

Document wsje000020010713dx2c002ks




 'Earnings recession' more immediate worry for US stocks. 

 From Andrew Marks in New York. 
695 words
12 February 2001
Business Times Singapore
STBT
English
(c) 2001 Singapore Press Holdings Limited

 WHETHER the US economy will slide into a recession may not become clear for months to come, but equity investors have a more immediate problem: an "earnings recession" among listed US firms. 

 Wall Street analysts say the forecasts are that companies that comprise both the Nasdaq 100 and the Standard & Poor's 500 indices will show "negative profit growth" in the first quarter - in particular, a 14.6 per cent fall in corporate earnings for the Nasdaq's top companies and 1.2 per cent for the S&P 500. 

 "Everyone's so busy focusing on whether the economic data will show we're headed for a recession and whether it will prompt the Federal Reserve to cut interest rates. They're overlooking the coming earnings recession, which poses a much bigger threat to the stock market," says Gail Dudack, chief investment strategist at Warburg Dillon Reed. 

 "It's one thing to worry about the effects of a slowing economy, it's another to see direct proof of it in a company's bottom line." She is predicting a new round of sell-offs. 

 Indeed, Friday's trading, which completed a near full reversal of the January rally and pushed the Dow Jones Industrials and S&P 500 into negative territory for the year while the Nasdaq Composite managed to remain 0.02 per cent ahead, indicated that investors are turning their attention from interest rates to the constant stream of bad news emanating from bellwether companies. 

 Leading the way last week was technology giant Cisco Systems' announcement that its revenues would decline as much as 5 per cent this quarter and be flat in the next quarter after 44 quarters of consecutive revenue growth. 

 "I think this round of pre-announcements is going to spook many investors," Ms Dudack said of the upcoming season for companies warning of unexpected profit shortfalls. 

 Other strategists, however, said that distress over first-quarter earnings would be erased once the Fed announces another round of interest rate cuts. 

 The next Federal Reserve policymaking meeting isn't until March 20, notes Joseph Battipaglia, chief investment strategist at Gruntal & Company. 

 "But I wouldn't be surprised if we see another inter-session rate cut, like the one we had at the beginning of the year. I think that would be enough to head off any significant decline," he said. 

 But if the earnings recession threatens to extend beyond the first quarter, many of the Wall Street strategists who are currently predicting a second half recovery may quickly change their tunes. 

 Investors haven't witnessed two consecutive quarters of earnings shortfalls since 1990, and strategists like Scudder Kemper Fund's Robert Froelich say that could trigger another sell-off. "The emotional impact of two negative quarters in a row would really drag down the market," he said. 

 And that's a likely occurrence, according to Joseph Kalinowski, equity strategist at Thomson Financial First Call, the company that tracks and compiles Wall Street analysts' earnings forecasts. 

 "At this point I think it's very likely that we'll see negative earnings for both the S&P 500 and the Nasdaq 100 not only in the first quarter of 2001, but also in the second quarter," he said. 

 Analysts are currently forecasting that a strong recovery in the third and fourth quarters will keep the S&P 500's earnings positive for the year, but in the technology-dominated Nasdaq, even that's in doubt. The current forecast is for profits amongst Nasdaq 100 companies to slip 15.9 per cent and 13.3 per cent in the second and third quarters, respectively, but eke out a profit growth of 1.6 per cent for the year with 33.6 per cent growth in the fourth quarter. 

 But, warns Mr Kalinowski, that number could easily sink as companies issue more profit warnings in coming months. "We certainly haven't seen the end of downward earnings revisions for this year. The only question is how far down we're going to go," he said. 

Document stbt000020010715dx2c0014g




 Technology 
 Dell Computer Prepares Cost Cuts, May Trim Staff --- Managers Expect Reductions Of 8% to 10% in Expenses 

 By Gary McWilliams 
Staff Reporter
619 words
12 February 2001
The Asian Wall Street Journal
AWSJ
N2
English
 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Dell Computer Corp., after slashing prices amid slowing growth in the personal-computer market, is gearing up for deep expense cuts that could include the first layoffs in its 16-year history. 

 The Round Rock, Texas, computer company recently told managers to prepare for cost cuts of 8% to 10%, according to people familiar with the directive. The cuts would be on top of a series of moves designed to counter an industry slowdown. Dell already has frozen most hiring, barred travel unrelated to sales calls, and cut some marketing programs. 

 A spokesman for Dell said he wasn't aware of any broad reductions. 

 Last month, while warning that his company wouldn't meet Wall Street analysts' earnings forecasts for the fourth quarter ended Feb. 2, Chief Executive Michael S. Dell said the company would cut costs to improve profit margins. "Our businesses will make (expense) adjustments as they see necessary to be sure we remain competitive," he said. 

 At 4 p.m. Friday in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, Dell shares were down 9.8% at  $23.50. The 52-week low of $16.25 was set Dec. 21. 

 Some employees believe the computer maker could be preparing to eliminate as many as 4,000 jobs through a combination of outright cuts and an annual performance review, beginning as early as this week. Every year, Dell's 36,000 full-time employees are ranked on a scale of 1 to 5 and each February, the company typically dismisses or places on probation any employee ranked in the bottom fifth. 

 Amid the softest PC market in recent history, Dell has initiated a price war in an attempt to pressure weaker rivals and grab market share. PC shipments last year rose just 9.2%, as home-computer sales slumped late in the year, according to market researcher International Data Corp. 

 Dell, which records about $32 billion in annual revenue, is expected to report fourth-quarter results Thursday. In January, Dell forecast a profit of 18 cents to 19 cents a diluted share, well below 25 cents a share expected by Wall Street analysts, though revenue is expected to rise 26% to $8.6 billion. This is from a company that had posted annual revenue gains of 50% a year up until 1999. 

 Dell also warned that the price cutting would pare gross profit margins, or profits after manufacturing costs, by three percentage points from a year earlier. 

 Analysts believe fears of a recession are prompting U.S. companies to cut their computer budgets, putting new pressure on PC sales this year. 

 David Bailey, an analyst at Gerard Klauer Mattison, said new cuts at Dell would indicate that PC demand continues to sag. Many computer makers have signaled that they don't expect demand to rise until the second half of the year, at the earliest. 

 "I think this is not going to be viewed as trimming the fat, but as preparing for slower growth," Mr. Bailey said. 

 Late last year, Dell ordered its managers to scrutinize all costs, even asking them to return unneeded company-issued electronic pagers. Dell also closed an online procurement business called Dell Marketplace. The business began operating in September and was designed to allow Dell customers to buy and sell using Dell's electronic-commerce capabilities. 

 Last week, Spherion Corp., a Fort Lauderdale, Florida, staffing company that supplies Dell with factory workers, said that a large Austin, Texas, customer, which analysts believe is Dell, has reduced its staffing needs by more than 1,200 employees a week. A Spherion spokeswoman declined to comment. 

Document awsj000020010710dx2c0019e




 UPDATE 2-Toshiba, NEC eye raising Rambus DRAM output. 

482 words
9 February 2001
06:30
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 TOKYO, Feb 9 (Reuters) - Japanese chip and PC maker Toshiba Corp said on Friday it will more than triple its output of Rambus DRAM chips by September while cutting commodity DRAM production, and NEC Corp said it is eyeing a similar move. 

 A Toshiba spokesman said the company would boost its output of Direct Rambus DRAMs, which use technology from Rambus Inc that speeds up memory chip performance, to eight million units per month by September from the current 2.3 million units, based on a 128MB equivalent. 

 The news spurred a rally in shares of Japanese manufacturers of semiconductor testing equipment, with Ando Electric Co Ltd , considered particularly well-positioned for Rambus DRAMs, surging 10 percent to end at 1,100 yen, scoring its first higher close this month. 

 Another testing device maker, Advantest Corp , ended seven percent higher at 13,600 yen, while Tokyo Electron Ltd , Japan's biggest supplier of chipmaking equipment, was up five percent at 8,300 yen. 

 The faster Rambus chips, which fetch about twice the price of commodity DRAMs, are used in generating the three-dimensional graphics of Sony Corp's PlayStation 2 game console, which require quick memory response. They are also in demand for use with Intel Corp's new Pentium 4 microprocessor. 

 VALUE ADDED 

 The spokesman said Toshiba would concurrently cut commodity DRAM output roughly in half to 4.5 to 5.0 million units per month. 

 NEC, also one of Japan's biggest chipmakers, said it was considering boosting its Rambus DRAM output as it compiles capital spending plans for the business year that begins in April. 

 "They (Rambus DRAMs) have higher value-added," an NEC spokesman said. "We expect demand for them will increase." 

 He said no final decision had been made on a production increase, however, declining to confirm a report in the business daily Nihon Keizai Shimbun that NEC would boost its total Rambus DRAM output by September by 150 percent, to five million units per month, at plants in Japan, Britain and China. 

 The Nihon Keizai said NEC would supply the increased output to a DRAM development and sales joint venture with Hitachi Ltd . 

 Prices for commodity DRAM chips have slumped since last summer, weighing on chipmakers' earnings. 

 Toshiba said low DRAM prices were partly to blame for a downward revision on Tuesday of its profit estimates for the business year to March. It cut its forecast for 2000/01 to a group net profit to 96 billion yen ($822.4 million) from 137 billion yen. 

 Toshiba's shares ended 0.14 percent higher at 709 yen on Friday, steadying over the past two sessions after Tuesday's profit warning sent them reeling to a 15-month low of 698 yen. 

 NEC was also marginally higher, up 0.47 percent at 2,130 yen. 

 . (C) Reuters Limited 2001. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2906dj1




 Bookham prepares market for poorer quarter. 

402 words
9 February 2001
13:14
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, Feb 9 (Reuters) - For much of last year, UK optical component maker Bookham Technology - which reports Wednesday - was held up as a shining example of how sound tech stocks could weather the market downturn, but not any longer. 

 As the optical sector has slumped, Bookham has had to join the long list of companies issuing profit warnings and said in January that its fourth-quarter losses would be greater than expected. 

 Analysts now expect pre-tax loss in a range of 26.9 to 29.7 million pounds for the year and 6.4 to 9.1 million for the quarter on sales of 25.8 to 26.9 million and 11 to 11.4 million respectively. 

 The shares, which stood at 940 pence at 1256 GMT - down nine pence or 0.9 percent - have underperformed the FTSE information technology sector by some 63 percent since Bookham floated last April at 10 pounds. 

 Bookham relies on Nortel Networks for a huge chunk of its sales, so its fortunes are still heavily tied in with those of the Canadian company, which it said had cut orders. 

 "Bookham wants to become the Intel of the optical world, but even Intel's share price never exceeded 15 times sales at the height of the stock market bubble. Bookham is currently trading at more than 50 times 2000 sales," said broker Williams de Broe. 

 "Bookham has stumbled even before it has learned to walk, and the management only has itself to blame for encouraging an environment of unrealistic expectations." 

 The company, whose shares rose to a heady 54.37 pounds last year, saw a fifth of its value vanish on the January day when it issued its profit warning. 

 It is now worth about 1.2 billion pounds ($1.73 billion). 

 Bookham said in January it now expected operating losses to be four million pounds greater than expected at 15 to 15.5 million pounds ($23 million) for the fourth quarter. 

 It said fourth quarter revenues were anticipated to be in line with forecasts at 11 million pounds ($16 million) with negative gross margins at 15 percent. 

 Its warning came just after Corning - the world's largest fibre-optic cables maker - warned of a slowdown in equipment spending by phone carriers and JDS Uniphase , the world number one fibre-optic components supplier, said it would shave its growth forecasts. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2906aho



 BT or not BT? That is the question for London investors by Mark Rice- Oxley 

678 words
9 February 2001
Agence France-Presse
AFPR
English
 (Copyright 2001) 

 LONDON, Feb 9 (AFP) - The London stock market fell back this week in trading dominated by an alarming slide in the share price of one of Britain's largest companies -- telecoms giant BT. 

 An interest rate cut by the Bank of England on Thursday and more optimistic assessments of US economic prospects did little to encourage investors, and the FTSE 100 index ended the week down 1.5 percent at 6,164.3 points. 

 Corporate earnings remain the dominant factor, with a further slew of results due next week from Footsie heavyweights BP, Lloyds TSB and Reuters. 

 But attention will also switch back to the United States and an important speech to Congress by US Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan. 

 "That has to be the number one priority," said Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein equity strategist Philip Isherwood. "What he says on productivity will be crucial." 

 Fears of a US economic slowdown have turned investment sentiment highly cautious, and analysts are warning that corporate earnings will suffer for some time to come. 

 "The earnings deterioration you have seen this year is not over by any means," said Isherwood. "Profit warnings don't suddenly disappear, and if anything the earnings deterioration is accelerating rather than ending. 

 "You will see profit warnings till the end of the year." 

 BT avoided issuing a profit warning with in-line results, but it also failed to flesh out its sketchy details on how to fill a debt hole that will top 30 billion pounds (46.8 billion euros, 43.5 billion dollars) by March. That sent its share price nosediving 15.1 percent to 595 pence. 

 BT plans to spin off some businesses to drum up cash, but investors will hardly be queuing up to buy: France Telecom is admitting difficulties with the flotation of its own mobile unit Orange, leaving BT's plans to go to market looking ambitious, analysts say. 

 "Two years ago, BT was a very healthy company. It is astonishing how quickly things have unravelled," said SG Securities telecoms analyst John Tysoe. 

 Among other reporting companies, oil major Shell saw its share price surge 7.9 percent to 601 pence after unveiling record profits on the back of high oil prices. 

 Shell rival BP also gained from the rising price of crude, gaining 3.4 percent to 607. It releases results on Tuesday, and analysts are expecting record profits of more than 14 billion dollars. 

 Airline BA tumbled 13.2 percent to 397 pence despite reporting that losses in 1999 had turned into profits in 2000. 

 Pharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca fell 4.1 percent to 3,000 pence as healthy results were eclipsed by a warning of a "challenging" outlook for the next year as the patents on several "hugely successful" products expire. 

 British satellite broadcaster BSkyB fell 15.2 percent to 975 pence after revealing that half-year losses soared to 260.1 million pounds because of extensive investments. 

 British chemicals giant ICI slumped 7.9 percent to 475 pence after strong full-year profits were tempered by a warning that the faltering US economy could hurt its prospects in 2001. 

 The Bank of England's quarter point rate cut to 5.75 percent gave the overall market no real fillip but did help some banking stocks. 

 HSBC ticked ahead gently to 1,051 pence while Barclays gained 3.1 percent to 2,243 pence after reporting that profits jumped 42 percent last year. Halifax added 10.5 percent to 713 pence after buying distressed insurer Equitable life for one billion pounds. 

 Lloyds TSB took on 1.3 percent to 708.5 pence after Abbey National again rejected its 20-billion-pound takeover bid. Abbey stock edged up slightly to 1,203 pence. 

 Another winner was footballing giant Manchester United, up 2.8 percent to 219 pence after unveiling a potentially lucrative marketing deal with the New York Yankees baseball club that could make David Beckham a household name in the United States. 

 mro-sl/sst 

Document afpr000020010709dx290110h


Search Summary

 Text((“profit*” same “warning*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”))) OR ((“profit*” same “fall*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“headwind” same “profit*”) (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”)))   Date02/01/2001 to 02/28/2001   SourceAll Sources   AuthorAll Authors   CompanyAll Companies   SubjectCorporate/Industrial News   IndustryAll Industries   RegionUnited States   LanguageEnglish   Results Found131   Timestamp27 March 2018 10:38  














•	  Cisco aftermath leaves traders looking for clues. 
•	  Cisco aftermath leaves traders looking for clues. 
•	  Barnes & Noble.com Losses Widened in Fourth Quarter 
•	  U.S. stocks down, market seeks reason to rise. 
•	 UPDATE 3-Zurich  profit warning  wallops stock.
•	 UPDATE 1-API shares plunge on  profit warning .
•	 Barnes & Noble.com Says It Will  Cut  Jobs As Its Losses Widen
•	  Razorfish drops staff anticipating loss. 
•	  THE TROUBLE WITH TAKEOVERS - Acquisition activity is on a high, but in most... 
•	  AstraZeneca Pft Up 16%, But Shares Hit By Weaker Outlook 
•	  Zurich Fincl Issues Pft Warning, Cites Reinsurance 
•	 Coles dives on  profit warning .
•	  Misfiring Detroit drags Daimler into red zone. 
•	  US Canada Business Briefs 
•	  PRESS DIGEST - Wall Street Journal - Feb 7. 
•	  UPDATE 3-Schlumberger seen preparing to bid for Sema. 
•	 Pewaukee, Wis., Electronic System Designer Issues  Profit Warning
•	 Interest rate  cut  fails to rally market.
•	  Companies: European Companies 
•	 Computer Network shares hammered after  profit warning .
•	  ADR REPORT - Foreign shares slide on U.S. economy fears. 
•	  U.S. stocks seen slipping - market to take cues from jobs data. 
•	  U.S. stocks to open flat as traders mull mixed jobs data. 
•	 Business Brief -- Federal-Mogul Corp.: On 14%  Decline  in Sales
•	  Valeo 2000 core profit up, jobs to go. 
•	  UPDATE 2-JOT plunges 37 pct on result, outlook. 
•	  U.S. Options-Clorox calls busy as stock up. 
•	  Israel stocks end narrowly mixed, Nice shares tumble. 
•	  IXOS Robust Oper Pft Shows Co Getting Back On Track 
•	  Compaq Has No Plans For Large-Scale Acquisitions - CEO 
•	  UPDATE:Intershop Stock Slides As 2001 Targets Disappoint  

 

 Cisco aftermath leaves traders looking for clues. 

666 words
9 February 2001
The Scotsman
SC
10
English
(c) 2001

 STOCKS were off in early afternoon trade, as Wall Street searched for a cue, a day after the growth slowdown warning of computer networking company Cisco Systems hammered the tech sector. A C Moore, chief investment strategist at Dunvegan Associates said: "The market has discounted a lot of bad news, but at the same time there's no real catalyst for stocks to do better. So they are toying with support." The blue chip Dow Jones industrial average was down 36.19, or 0.33 per cent, at 10,910.53. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index was off 1.68, or 0.13 per cent, at 1,339.21. Both traded sideways earlier. The Dow was weighed down by software giant Microsoft with a 1-1/2 loss at 63-3/16. Leading brokerage Merrill Lynch cut its investment rating, citing concerns about the maturing personal computer market. The blue chip index was also dragged down by retail stocks like Wal-Mart Stores, which lost 2.16 to 52.50, and home improvement retailer Home Depot, off 1.53 at 44.25. 

  Most US retailers posted January same-store sales - or sales at stores open at least one year - in line with or just above expectations, but many warned they expect margins to be squeezed because of deep mark downs to which they resorted, to clear space for spring merchandise. "The same-store sales report data is showing wholesalers were discounting at this point, so there is price-cutting which is affecting Wal-Mart and others, and that is one of the negative chills affecting the market," Moore added. Wal-Mart fell although it met the top end of analysts' expectations, posting a six per cent rise in same-store sales. Women's apparel retailer AnnTaylor Stores, whose same-store sales fell 14.3 per cent in January, said fourth-quarter profit should come in well below estimates, and its shares fell 1.20 to 26.50. Another warning came from No1 US apparel retailing chain Gap, off 2.86 a share to 26.70. It said same-store sales fell 12 per cent against an expected drop of four per cent to seven per cent. Adding to some of the negative sentiment was the jump in oil prices, which fanned fears that higher energy costs will nip at Corporate America's bottom-line. Record January consumption figures and new violence in the Middle East have put oil on a firm trend. Two economic reports generally gave yet more evidence of economic cooldown. The government said weekly jobless claims rose to 361,000 in the week ended 3 February, exceeding an expected 348,000. The government also said wholesale inventories were unchanged in December, well below expectations for a 0.3 per cent gain, after November's 0.4 per cent gain. Tobacco and food company Philip Morris, up 86 cents to 46.86, offered some support to the Dow as investors sought safer-sound names in the uncertain economy. 

 Among bright spots, Electronic Data Systems jumped 5.43 to 62.33 after the computer services provider posted a 15 per cent gain in earnings per share. Toy maker Hasbro posted a fourth-quarter loss, its year-ago profit erased by charges for letting go nearly nine per cent of its workers and a 25 per cent sales drop. Fewer children lined up for toys linked to Pokemon cartoons and Star Wars movies. Hasbro, whose brands also include Play-Doh, Scrabble and the robotic puppy Poo-Chi, reported a loss of $58.4 million, or 34 cents per diluted share, before unusual charges. A year earlier, the company posted earnings of $155.4 million, or 79 cents, excluding one-time charges. The red ink was not quite as bad as Wall Street had expected. Analysts, on average, had tabbed Hasbro to lose 37 cents a share in the fourth quarter, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

Document sc00000020010715dx290027e
 

 

 Cisco aftermath leaves traders looking for clues. 

666 words
9 February 2001
The Scotsman
SC
10
English
(c) 2001

 STOCKS were off in early afternoon trade, as Wall Street searched for a cue, a day after the growth slowdown warning of computer networking company Cisco Systems hammered the tech sector. 

 A C Moore, chief investment strategist at Dunvegan Associates said: "The market has discounted a lot of bad news, but at the same time there's no real catalyst for stocks to do better. So they are toying with support." 

 The blue chip Dow Jones industrial average was down 36.19, or 0.33 per cent, at 10,910.53. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index was off 1.68, or 0.13 per cent, at 1,339.21. Both traded sideways earlier. 

 The Dow was weighed down by software giant Microsoft with a 1-1/2 loss at 63-3/16. Leading brokerage Merrill Lynch cut its investment rating, citing concerns about the maturing personal computer market. 

 The blue chip index was also dragged down by retail stocks like Wal-Mart Stores, which lost 2.16 to 52.50, and home improvement retailer Home Depot, off 1.53 at 44.25. 

 Most US retailers posted January same-store sales - or sales at stores open at least one year - in line with or just above expectations, but many warned they expect margins to be squeezed because of deep mark downs to which they resorted, to clear space for spring merchandise. 

 "The same-store sales report data is showing wholesalers were discounting at this point, so there is price-cutting which is affecting Wal-Mart and others, and that is one of the negative chills affecting the market," Moore added. 

 Wal-Mart fell although it met the top end of analysts' expectations, posting a six per cent rise in same-store sales. 

 Women's apparel retailer AnnTaylor Stores, whose same-store sales fell 14.3 per cent in January, said fourth-quarter profit should come in well below estimates, and its shares fell 1.20 to 26.50. Another warning came from No1 US apparel retailing chain Gap, off 2.86 a share to 26.70. It said same-store sales fell 12 per cent against an expected drop of four per cent to seven per cent. 

 Adding to some of the negative sentiment was the jump in oil prices, which fanned fears that higher energy costs will nip at Corporate America's bottom-line. Record January consumption figures and new violence in the Middle East have put oil on a firm trend. 

 Two economic reports generally gave yet more evidence of economic cooldown. The government said weekly jobless claims rose to 361,000 in the week ended 3 February, exceeding an expected 348,000. 

 The government also said wholesale inventories were unchanged in December, well below expectations for a 0.3 per cent gain, after November's 0.4 per cent gain. 

 Tobacco and food company Philip Morris, up 86 cents to 46.86, offered some support to the Dow as investors sought safer-sound names in the uncertain economy. 

 Among bright spots, Electronic Data Systems jumped 5.43 to 62.33 after the computer services provider posted a 15 per cent gain in earnings per share. 

 Toy maker Hasbro posted a fourth-quarter loss, its year-ago profit erased by charges for letting go nearly nine per cent of its workers and a 25 per cent sales drop. 

 Fewer children lined up for toys linked to Pokemon cartoons and Star Wars movies. 

 Hasbro, whose brands also include Play-Doh, Scrabble and the robotic puppy Poo-Chi, reported a loss of $58.4 million, or 34 cents per diluted share, before unusual charges. 

 A year earlier, the company posted earnings of $155.4 million, or 79 cents, excluding one-time charges. 

 The red ink was not quite as bad as Wall Street had expected. Analysts, on average, had tabbed Hasbro to lose 37 cents a share in the fourth quarter, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

Document sc00000020010715dx2900225
 

 

 Marketing & Media 
 Barnes & Noble.com Losses Widened in Fourth Quarter 

291 words
9 February 2001
The Asian Wall Street Journal
AWSJ
N5
English
 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -- Barnes & Noble.com Inc. posted a sharply wider loss for the fourth quarter and said it will cut its work force by 16%, or about 350 full-time positions. 

 The online bookseller also said it "may need to consider a financing in the first half of 2002," although "management is committed to taking all measures necessary to defer such financing if possible." The company ended 2000 with about $217 million in cash and expects to end 2001 with about "$100 million-plus," said Marie Toulantis, chief financial officer. 

 The company said it took a $75 million charge in the fourth quarter related to the write-down of some Internet investments and certain fixed assets. It also will take a charge of about $5 million for the first half of 2001 to cover severance and other costs related to closing of two facilities. 

 For the quarter, Barnes & Noble.com, which is 40% owned by Barnes & Noble Inc. and 40% owned by Bertelsmann AG, posted a net loss of $138.1 million, or 91 cents a share, compared with a loss of $38.4 million, or 27 cents a year earlier. On a pro forma basis, excluding write-downs, special charges and other items, the company posted a loss of $54.2 million, or 36 cents a share. 

 The company met its already lowered loss-per-share guidance of between 34 cents and 37 cents. First Call/Thomson Financial listed analysts' consensus estimate at a loss of 31 cents, but Barnes & Noble.com objected to that, saying that two of five analysts surveyed hadn't revised their estimates after the company's January profitwarning. 

Document awsj000020010710dx290013d
 

 

 U.S. stocks down, market seeks reason to rise. 

 By Haitham Haddadin 
725 words
8 February 2001
19:19
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Feb 8 (Reuters) - Stocks were off in early afternoon trade on Thursday, as Wall Street searched for a cue a day after the growth slowdown warning of computer networking company Cisco Systems Inc. hammered the tech sector. 

 "The market has discounted a lot of bad news, but at the same time there's no real catalyst for stocks to do better," said A.C. Moore, chief investment strategist at Dunvegan Associates. "So they are toying with support." 

 The tech-laced Nasdaq Composite Index was down 19.83 points, or 0.76 percent, at 2,587.99, having traded up earlier. The blue chip Dow Jones industrial average was down 36.19 points, or 0.33 percent, at 10,910.53 and the broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index was off 1.68 points, or 0.13 percent, at 1,339.21. Both traded sideways earlier. 

 Cisco, the world's biggest computer networking company, lost another 9/16 to $30-1/2 in active trade and weighed on the tech-stacked index, still suffering after missing estimates after the close Tuesday for the first time in more than six years and warning that a slowdown could continue for at least the next two quarters. 

 Nasdaq fell more than 2 percent Wednesday to its lowest close in nearly a month. 

 The Dow was weighed down by software giant Microsoft Corp. with a $1-1/2 loss at $63-3/16. Leading brokerage Merrill Lynch cut its investment rating, citing concerns about the maturing personal computer market. 

 The negative vibes hit other sectoral companies as well, including Nasdaq-listed rivals like Oracle Corp., and others like Adobe Systems Inc., and Siebel Systems Inc.. The S&P computer software index fell 1.90 percent. 

 The blue chip index was also dragged down by retail stocks like Wal-Mart Stores Inc., which lost $2.16 to $52.50, and home improvement retailer Home Depot Inc., off $1.53 at $44.25. 

 Most U.S. retailers posted January same-store sales - or sales at stores open at least one year - in line with or just above expectations, but many warned they expect margins to be squeezed because of deep markdowns to which they resorted to clear space for spring merchandise. 

 "The same-store sales report data is showing wholesalers were discounting at this point, so there is price-cutting which is affecting Wal-Mart and others, and that is one of the negative chills affecting the market," Moore added. 

 Wal-Mart fell although it met the top end of analysts' expectations, posting a 6.0 percent rise in same-store sales. 

 Women's apparel retailer AnnTaylor Stores Corp., whose same-store sales fell 14.3 percent in January, said fourth-quarter profit should come in well below estimates, and its shares fell $1.20 to $26.50. Another warning came from No. 1 U.S. apparel retailing chain Gap Inc., off $2.86 a share to $26.70. It said same-store sales fell 12 percent against an expected drop of 4 percent to 7 percent. 

 Adding to some of the negative sentiment was the jump in oil prices, which fanned fears that higher energy costs will nip at Corporate America's bottom-line. Record January consumption figures and new violence in the Middle East have put oil on a firm trend. 

 Two economic reports generally gave yet more evidence of economic cooldown. The government said weekly jobless claims rose to 361,000 in the week ended Feb. 3., exceeding an expected 348,000. The government also said wholesale inventories were unchanged in December, well below expectations for a 0.3 percent gain, after November's 0.4 percent gain. 

 Tobacco and food company Philip Morris Cos. Inc., up 86 cents to $46.86, offered some support to the Dow as investors sought safer-sound names in the uncertain economy. 

 Among bright spots, Electronic Data Systems Corp. jumped $5.43 to $62.33 after the computer services provider posted a 15 percent gain in earnings per share. 

 KPMG Consulting Inc., one of the world's largest technology consulting firms, enjoyed a rise of more than 30 percent, or $5-5/8, to $23-5/8, in very active trade on Nasdaq after it debuted Thursday. 

Document lba0000020010713dx28069ov
 

 

 UPDATE 3-Zurich  profit warning  wallops stock. 

 By Nieck Ammerlaan 
867 words
8 February 2001
17:18
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 ZURICH, Feb 8 (Reuters) - Shares in Zurich Financial Services were pummelled on Thursday after the group warned net income in 2000 had fallen short of the 1999 level of $2.29 billion. 

 Analysts, who had on average forecast profit would rise by around 20 percent to 4.58 billion francs ($2.78 billion) in 2000, cut their share ratings. 

 Shares in Zurich, one of Europe's top financial groups, lost 7.8 percent to close at 852 francs after touching an intraday low of 833 for the year. The previous low had been 906 on January 15. 

 The slide deepened the stock's poor showing so far this year, having hit a high of 1,004 on January 4. 

 Zurich depressed the blue-chip SMI index , down one percent, together with Swiss Re , which on Wednesday posted lower-than-expected earnings growth in 2000. 

 Zurich Chief Executive Rolf Hueppi told reporters in a telephone conference that the "marginal" decline in net profit in 2000 "would be five percent or less." 

 Hueppi said he had decided to warn on profits as soon as certain "issues" were detected and also with a view to dampen high earnings expectations in the markets. 

 NO MORE SKELETONS SEEN 

 He stuck to Zurich's long-term projection of 10 to 15 percent profit growth, seeing no other skeletons in the closet. 

 "I do not know of any other ugly cases now," he said, "By taking a hit now, we do not have take any hits later." 

 Hueppi cited a $300 million addition to reinsurance reserves related to contracts falling due on London's Lloyd's market and problems in the U.S. casualty business as one factor behind the surprise burden on earnings. 

 Exceptionally large non-life claims related to storms and floods in Europe and Britain late in 2000 would weigh on earnings to the tune of over $100 million, he said. 

 Zurich was booking another $100 million in costs to unify its share structure, focusing on a single listing in Zurich, and for moves to end its dual holding company set-up. 

 Hueppi stressed the total $500 million burden was one-off and noted the profit estimate for 2000 already included some $330 million in costs for its three-year, $1 billion Internet programme. 

 He shook off analysts' criticism that the company had under-reserved in recent years and now was paying for an aggressive pricing strategy. 

 Policy had been prudent and reserving adequate, he said, and he declined to answer personally for the uncovered exposures. "I cannot review every contract myself." 

 Hueppi said a strong dollar had had a negative impact on earnings at Zurich, which does most of its business in Switzerland, Britain and the United States, noting that earnings per share in Swiss francs would rise by almost 10 percent in 2000. 

 Zurich reports in dollars, but also gives a Swiss franc earnings per share (EPS) figure because the primary listing for its shares is on the SWX Swiss Exchange. The company said it would release detailed figures for 2000 on March 22. 

 DISAPPOINTMENT AND DOWNGRADES 

 Analyst Giada Cereghetti at Banca del Gottardo cut the stock to "neutral" from "buy" and said she would definitely lower her EPS forecasts for 2000 and possibly for 2001. 

 Cutting the share to "hold," Andre Meier at Bank Julius Baer said news of the $300 million in extra reserves for long-running reinsurance contracts had "very negatively" surprised him. 

 He had expected Zurich to have reviewed the contracts before its September 1998 merger with the financial services arm of London-based BAT and to have adjusted reserves then. 

 Analysts said they felt wrong-footed after Zurich had indicated that claims related to bad weather in continental Europe and Britain late in 2000 would not have a major impact. 

 Werner Huber at ATAG Asset Management cut his EPS estimate for 2000 to 52 francs from an earlier 62.70 and to 57.20 francs from 69 for 2001. He rated the share "reduce". 

 MARKETS SHAKEN AGAIN 

 Analysts criticised Zurich for again shaking markets, much in the way it had done at the half-year stage, when it presented two earnings figures - one down on the year ago and one up. 

 First-half headline net profit had been down 24 percent at $1.3 billion as Zurich said it prudently cut back on capital gains to preserve nest eggs for any future cyclical downturns. But re-calculated on a normalised basis, net profit rose to $1.1 billion from $915 million. Normalised capital gains reflect gains the group expects to realise over the medium term. Zurich says this approach better reflects its core business. 

 As a result of weaker financial market conditions, Hueppi said that capital gains on investments declined by some 20 percent in 2000 as the company held back on realising profits. 

 Hueppi said Zurich expected to achieve stronger revenue growth in several key markets in 2001. Favourable non-life pricing trends which emerged in 2000 continued this year. 

 The reinsurance business experienced significant improvements in pricing and terms in its key markets during the traditional January 2001 renewal period, he said. 

Document lba0000020010713dx28068vo
 

 

 UPDATE 1-API shares plunge on  profit warning . 

153 words
8 February 2001
11:56
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, Feb 8 (Reuters) - API Group Plc shares hit an all-time low on Thursday as the British packaging company said its operating outlook had deteriorated due to economic slowdown, particularly in North America. 

 "As a result, profits for the first half of the year are expected to be materially less than for the same period last year," API Chairman Moger Woolley told shareholders at the company's annual general meeting. 

 API shares were down by 27-1/2 pence, or 13.3 percent, to 180p by 1150 GMT, having touched a low of 170p. The stock has underperformed the FTSE All Share Packaging Index by about 20 percent in the last six months. 

 API added its restructuring programmme, first announced last year, was proceeding to plan. The group plans to consolidate three manufacturing operations in the UK to cut costs and restore investor confidence. 

Document lba0000020010713dx28068bf
 

 

 Barnes & Noble.com Says It Will  Cut  Jobs As Its Losses Widen 

377 words
8 February 2001
The Wall Street Journal
J
B8
English
 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -- Barnes & Noble.com Inc. posted a sharply wider loss for the fourth quarter and said it will cut its work force by 16%, or about 350 full-time positions. 

 The online bookseller also said it "may need to consider a financing in the first half of 2002," although "management is committed to taking all measures necessary to defer such financing if possible." The company ended 2000 with about $217 million in cash and expects to end 2001 with about "$100 million-plus," said Marie Toulantis, chief financial officer. 

 The company said it took a $75 million charge in the fourth quarter related to the write-down of some Internet investments and certain fixed assets. It also will take a charge of about $5 million for the first half of 2001 to cover severance and other costs related to closing of two facilities. 

 For the quarter, Barnes & Noble.com, which is 40% owned by Barnes & Noble Inc. and 40% owned by Bertelsmann AG, posted a net loss of $138.1 million, or 91 cents a share, compared with a loss of $38.4 million, or 27 cents a year earlier. On a pro forma basis, excluding write-downs, special charges and other items, the company posted a loss of $54.2 million, or 36 cents a share. 

 The company met its already-lowered loss-per-share guidance of between 34 cents and 37 cents. First Call/Thomson Financial listed analysts' consensus estimate at a loss of 31 cents, but Barnes & Noble.com objected to that, saying that two of five analysts surveyed hadn't revised their estimates after the company's January profitwarning. 

 The company said it expects a pro forma loss per share for 2001 of 75 cents to 85 cents. Analysts were expecting a loss of 75 cents, according to First Call. Barnes & Noble.com's cuts come on the heels of similar moves at rival Amazon.com Inc., which recently announced plans to cut 15% of its work force and close two facilities. 

 At 4 p.m. in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, Barnes & Noble.com shares were up 9 cents to $2.13. 

Document j000000020010711dx28003q8
 

 

 Razorfish drops staff anticipating loss. 

294 words
8 February 2001
New Media Age
NEWMED
1
English
(c) 2001 Centaur Communications Limited or its licensors.

 The creative industry is bracing itself for dire results from Razorfish following its announcement of 400 redundancies on Monday. 

 The company's Q4 results will be announced in the US this evening at 5pm EST and are expected to be worse than analysts anticipate. 

 Current predictions are of a loss of between 17 cents and 27 cents per share, slightly higher than Razorfish's warning in December of 17-22 cents per share, and far below the six-cents-per-share profit it announced this time last year. 

 The redundancies account for 21% of Razorfish's staff worldwide. The company's management had persistently denied that further jobs would be lost after a 10% cut in its workforce last autumn. 

 Sources have indicated that 10% of the staff cuts will be in the UK office - 40 of its 250 staff. Razorfish refused to comment on redundancies in individual offices. 

 The move is part of a trend sweeping through the agency sector, with several majors including Agency and Icon MediaLab announcing similar steps to cut costs. 

 Caroline Sceats, an analyst at Forrester Research, blames the downturn in fortune on the dotcom fall-out, which is reducing the number of clients seeking creative work, and the increasing need by clients for one-stop shop agencies. "Many of the agencies went for the one-stop shop option but found it more difficult than expected," she said. 

 Bob Scott, VP of sales, marketing and alliances at Razorfish rival DareStep, agrees that one reason agencies have to cut back is their over-ambitious expansion. "In this market you have to be global or niche and the majority of pure-play agencies are neither," he said. 

www.razorfish.com

 Copyright: Centaur Communications Ltd. and licensors. 

Document newmed0020010714dx28000cv
 

 THE TROUBLE WITH TAKEOVERS - Acquisition activity is on a high, but in most... 

 .. cases the deals fail to deliver. Laura Mazur reports on the crucial role played by brand values and marketing cultures. By LAURA MAZUR. 
2,220 words
8 February 2001
Marketing
MKTG
26
English
(c) 2001 Haymarket Business Publications Limited . No part of this data may be reproduced without prior written permission of the  owner.

 There are few actions more satisfying for chief executives than announcing an acquisition or merger. And they get the opportunity to do so quite a lot these days. In 1999, investment banks advised on deals worth a staggering #2100bn. There's just one problem. Few of them actually produce the goods. 

 According to a KPMG study, just 17% of the cross-border mergers and acquisitions from 1996 to the end of 1998 added to shareholder value. Betting the money on horses would probably have been as reliable. 

 What so many acquirers forget is that while finance might propel the deal, it's a lack of marketing synergy that will undo it. While chief executives might talk about the value to shareholders, they forget to consider whether the union will create customer value. 

 'The hard stuff is relatively easy to calculate. But they usually haven't done their homework on the soft stuff, and so the integration fails because of a culture clash,' says Anita Hoffmann, business development director at management consultancy Accenture. 

 Marketing is rarely part of the deal-making equation. Instead, it's about finance. 'Taking marketing into account is too long-term, too hard,' says Helena Rubenstein, managing director of branding consultancy The Lab. 

 'There is little discussion about how the two cultures will fit together in terms of how they go to market, how they sell and how they treat the customer.' 

 The continuing DaimlerChrysler debacle should give any takeover-prone chief executive pause for thought. First, it was touted as a merger of equals, combining the best of German quality and engineering with the creativity that made US car manufacturer Chrysler the comeback kid of the 90s. 

 The deal was consecrated in May 1998 and - at #25bn - it is the biggest industrial combination so far. By September 1999, senior management was crowing about how much faster integration had gone than expected. There were already benefits, they claimed, for global marketing and sales. 

 But within a few weeks, the US president of Chrysler was ousted, along with other Chrysler executives. His successor, a rising star called Jim Holden who had been in charge of marketing, lasted only a year, as did his replacement. 

 The Germans moved into Detroit en masse last November as Chrysler recorded huge losses. Last week the company announced that it will shed 26,000 staff in a shake-up that will see it close six plants. 

 Crisis at Iceland 

 Iceland's takeover of cash-and-carry firm Booker plunged both firms into turmoil. The deal, announced last May, was intended to give Iceland access to Booker's distribution channel and warehousing facilities, allowing the supermarket to compete with services such as Tesco Direct in the e-commerce arena as part of its rebranding as Iceland.co.uk. 

 But last week Iceland issued a second profits warning as chairman and founder Malcolm Walker resigned. His departure came amid speculation that he had sold his four million shares before it became clear that the company was not going to meet its profit forecast of #135m, which was cut to #120m, before being slashed to just #60m. 

 Stuart Rose, chief executive of Booker, was to run both companies as Walker took a non-executive role. But Rose resigned last November and former Wickes chief executive Bill Grimsey stepped into his shoes. 

 Unilever is determined to be an exception to the rule of merger marketing failure. Last April, it paid #1.6bn for Slimfast and #200m for quirky ice cream brand Ben & Jerry's. Barely had the ink dried on the deals when it paid #16.6bn in October for Bestfoods, owner of brands including Hellmann's and Knorr. 

 Unilever's takeover trail has been characterised by its marketing pedigree and the fact that chief executive Niall Fitzgerald calls himself 'an accountant by background, marketer by instinct'. Unusually, it seems able to retain a lot of marketing talent from its acquisitions. 

 A number of Bestfoods executives, for example, occupy key roles, and to keep important players on the brand development side, Unilever is using outside consultants to help evaluate the relative strengths and weaknesses of both its own people and those at Bestfoods. 

 Michael Brockbank, vice-president of brand communications at Unilever, says the company prizes brand value above cost synergies and savings. 

 'Look at the price we pay for a major acquisition and the amount attributable to the value of the brands we are buying, rather than the cost synergies we may be creating. You'll see that the brands are not an add-on at the end,' he says. 

 The question will be to what extent Unilever can balance cultural and brand diversity, rather than be tempted to impose the corporate way of working on acquired companies, no matter how uncomfortable the fit. Brockbank believes the fact that the business thrives on diversity will prevent that. 'Within the framework of certain systems and the availability of certain tools, I would hate to think there is a single Unilever marketing culture,' he says. 

 Ironically, the biggest test will probably come from the smallest acquisition. 

 Bringing Ben & Jerry's into the brand stable is a relatively small deal. 

 But the Vermont-based ice cream maker's distinctive, ethically-oriented culture and brand values are so strongly enmeshed that submerging one is bound to damage the other. 

 Despite reports of a tense relationship between founders Ben Cohen and Jerry Greenfield and Unilever, Ian Hills, who has been marketing manager pre-and post-acquisition at the Ben & Jerry's UK arm, remains remarkably upbeat. 

 'There was a lot of nervousness when the acquisition happened, because we prided ourselves on being a niche brand, and not being all things to all people,' he says. 'But the merger has gone surprisingly well.' 

 The brand's success is undoubtedly a factor. While three years ago Ben & Jerry's was one-fifth of the size of Haagen-Dazs, it has grown to between three-and four-fifths of the size of its rival. That growth means there's no need for Unilever to send in the troubleshooters, nor does it need to obstruct the brand's partnership with its UK agency, Third Planet. 

 Learning from each other 

 'What Unilever readily admits is that we were the first niche brand it took on board. And the feeling here is that it's not just what we can learn from a big conglomerate, but what Unilever can learn about niche or guerrilla marketing and alternative advertising,' says Hills. 

 A field marketing campaign carried out after the acquisition, during which spoof nuns toured London's Soho asking people to eat Ben & Jerry's ice cream and then confess their sins, is perhaps evidence that Unilever is learning. And incorporated into the company's buyout of Ben & Jerry's was a clause that will uphold the brand's ethical stance - just under 8% of pre-tax profit still goes to charity. 

 Since the deal, the major change to advertising has been that Third Planet was banned from using the cartoon versions of Ben Cohen and Jerry Greenfield that had adorned all the brand's ads. 

 'Ben and Jerry are now distanced from the ice cream, and have nothing to do with flavour choice and so on,' says Hills. 'They now work purely for the Ben & Jerry Foundation. The ice cream was really a means to an end for them so they could raise enough money to do their good deeding.' 

 Meanwhile, Hills is revelling in the clout the brand now carries in terms of media buying and the depth of research he has access to. And, he says, there is a limit to how long you can play the new kid on the block. 'We have been the quirky underdog and now we want to be the market leader, so Unilever has come in at the right time of the cycle,' he says. 

 Alexandra Uhlmann, who heads marketing programmes at Ashridge Management College, points out that the way Unilever has dealt with other distinctive brands, such as Calvin Klein, is an indication that it will not force values onto Ben & Jerry's that will alter the brand's perception. 

 But others aren't so confident. Ray Perry, marketing director at the Chartered Institute of Marketing, wonders whether the values associated with Ben & Jerry's can really survive within a multinational framework. 

 'You always focus on core products that drive your business. If you are Ben & Jerry's, that is your critical brand and you are not going to mess with it. But if it's the tiny little tail-end of 1500 different products, the parent company is not going to reshape everything it does around you.' 

 Perry speaks from experience. He was marketing director at JW Spear & Sons, the company that owned Scrabble until it was taken over in 1995 by US toy giant Mattel, owner of Barbie, where Perry became marketing director. 

 For the first couple of years, Mattel left well alone, says Perry. But then the inevitable happened. 'Someone had the bright idea of making the niche brand homogenous with another product to cut costs or find synergies. And that's where it all starts to go wrong.' 

 It's death by a thousand cuts, he adds. 'You have a set way of doing things in a big corporation. Over time, everyone manipulates the brand just a little bit and before you know it, all the little bits of manipulation amount to a different product aimed at a different audience, supplied through a different supply chain and looking different because it has a new logo.' 

 Even more damaging can be the sheer energy involved in trying to integrate disparate cultures. This can be dangerous because for successful brands momentum is important - both externally in the sense of the consumer feeling the brand is on a roll, but also internally in terms of self-belief and confidence. If that is suddenly fractured by a collision with another culture and brings fear, politics and erosion of trust, it can be very difficult to get back. 

 Talent drain 

 Losing marketing talent through a cost-cutting cull or from neglect is something few companies can afford at a time when good marketing people are such a scarce resource. 

 'It's one thing to acquire brand names and another to keep hold of the people and expertise that made the brand what it is. If you're not careful, you mistake one for the other,' says Marco Rimini, director of strategy and development at ad agency J Walter Thompson. 

 Despite a poor track record, however, mergers and acquisitions on a global scale aren't going away, although Rimini thinks the recent flurry of deals is evidence that the bull market, where shares are worth 'ludicrous amounts', is coming to the end of its cycle. 

 John Williamson, a partner at Wolff Olins, predicts that the combination of globalisation, which means that companies need critical mass to reduce costs, and the demands of the new economy, which has seen brands play the central role, will continue to push companies into each other's arms. 

 Whether they flourish depends on their clarity of vision, he argues. Are they coming together to get bigger? Or to create something new? 

 'A lot of companies don't define the future for themselves and place too much emphasis on the past. But the new economy demands that companies know what their future is.' 

 WHY TAKEOVERS FAIL 

 - Differences in vision 

 - Incompatible cultures/brand fit 

 - Attrition of talent and capabilities 

 - Loss of intangible assets 

 - High co-ordination costs 

 - Synergy gridlock 

 - Back-office IT disintegration 

 Source: IMD 

 A HISTORY OF RECENT MERGERS 

 1 DaimlerChrysler merger announced, May 1998 

 2 Wal-Mart buys Asda, June 1999 

 3 Vodafone completes acquisition of Mannesmann, February 2000 

 4 Iceland acquires Booker, May 2000 

 5 AOL Time Warner merger announced, January 2000; final approval January 2001 

 6 GlaxoSmithKline merger announced, January 2000; final approval January 2001 

 MERGER SUCCESS FACTORS 

 According to a report from KPMG and The Conference Board, 70% of today's mergers and acquisitions fail to deliver expected business benefits, and 70% of those failures occur during post-merger integration. 

 It suggests following some basic rules: 

 - Plan the plan before executing it. Too many companies embark on deals without knowing the answers to these fundamental questions: What is our approach? What are we trying to accomplish? Where are we going to get value from this acquisition? Where are the synergies and barriers? 

 - Leaders have to lead and create trust by sharing information and providing both a sense of urgency and focus on long-term issues. 

 - Don't skimp on investment. Many post-acquisition efforts fail because companies don't want to spend a lot of money on integration, despite the huge amount spent on the deal itself. 

 - Understand the strategic context. 

 - Find a balance between day-to-day operations and integration. Not paying attention to business as usual could result in the loss of talented staff and the loss of customers as competitors move in. 

Document mktg000020010713dx28000z2
 

 

 AstraZeneca Pft Up 16%, But Shares Hit By Weaker Outlook 

 By Susannah Rodgers 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
772 words
8 February 2001
15:53
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 LONDON -(Dow Jones)- Anglo-Swedish pharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca PLC (AZN) Thursday posted a 16% rise in pretax profit to $4.11 billion, but shares slipped as the company failed to quell anxiety over its drug pipeline. 

 The profit figure was in line with analysts' expectations and was driven by strong growth of newer products. Sales from ongoing operations rose 8% at constant exchange rates to $15.8 billion. Earnings per share rose 18% at constant currency to $1.64. 

 Despite a promised pipeline which is arguably the strongest in the industry, analysts said the company failed Thursday to reassure that key drugs are progressing to market in time to offset the impending impact of the patent expiry on its key drug Prilosec. A target of single-digit sales growth, and lower than expected target earnings per share, for 2001 also disappointed. 

 AstraZeneca told analysts that earnings per share for 2001 is likely to be at the lower end of the range $1.75 to $1.82, on the assumption that the U.S. patent on flagship drug Prilosec will expire as expected in October. 

 Observers expect Prilosec sales to decline dramatically soon after as generic competitors flood the market with cheap versions of the drug. However Nexium, AstraZeneca's followup to Prilosec, is yet to launch in the U.S. and AstraZeneca will need time to switch physicians from prescribing Prilosec to Nexium, before the generic rivals get a look in. 

 "They're effectively steering the market down," said Nigel Barnes, pharmaceutical analyst at Merrill Lynch. He sees the possibility for several downgrades in the investment community on the back of the numbers, although he is keeping the stock at hold. 

 At 1540 GMT, AstraZeneca shares were down 76 pence, or 2.5%, at 2928 pence. 

 Chief Executive Tom McKillop said he hopes for double digit growth by 2003 through organic growth, and in-licensing, with expansion into new markets including Japan. 


   Nexium, Crestor Seen Key To Pipeline



Key to the company's pipeline are thought to be drugs Nexium and
Crestor, both of which Merrill Lynch has estimated are potential
blockbusters - medicines which generate sales of at least $1.1 billion a
year.



However, analysts said they are increasingly skeptical that Nexium
will be on sale as targeted in the U.S. in the first quarter of 2001.



There remain undisclosed issues to be ironed out with the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration before approval. McKillop declined to comment on
the issues, but analysts say they center on the strength of labeling for
Nexium. Without a label stating that the drug is more effective than
Prilosec, its sales may fall short of targets.



Cholestorol-modifying treatment Crestor is targeted by the company as
a rival to Pfizer Inc.'s (PFE) Lipitor. McKillop said he doesn't intend
to reveal full clinical results to the investment community until March,
while regulatory filing is planned for the second half of 2001.



   Sales Forecasts, EPS For 2001 Disappoint



Alex Isaac, fund manager at Tilney Investment Management, recommended
reducing holdings of AstraZeneca as the forecast single-digit growth in
2001 is "mediocre for the sector."



AstraZeneca said sales of key growth products launched in recent
years, including Atacand, Casodex, Arimidex, Zomig and Seroquel, rose
50%. Prilosec/Losec saw sales rise 9% at constant currency to $6.26
billion for the full year, with growth of 19% to $1.73 billion in the
fourth-quarter.



But discounting exceptional items, earnings per share for 2000 - at
$1.64 - is effectively reduced to $1.60, which is at the lower end of
expectations, said Merrill Lynch's Barnes.



McKillop refuted claims that the company's single-digit sales growth
forecast for 2001 amounted to a profit warning.



Glaxo Wellcome's earnings actually declined 1% in the year following
its 1997 patent expiry on big-selling ulcer drug Zantac, at the time the
biggest patent expiry ever.



Despite the decline, market watchers applauded Glaxo's Chairman Sir
Richard Sykes, saying by refocusing the company towards repiratory, HIV
and central nervous system drugs, he had cushioned any severe impact of
the Zantac decline.



McKillop said AstraZeneca is still on target to achieve by mid-2002
total synergy benefits of $1.1 billion after its creation by the merger
of Astra AB of Sweden and Zeneca Group PLC of the U.K. The company
delivered synergy benefits of $650 million in 2000, ahead of target, he
said.



-By Susannah Rodgers, of Dow Jones Newswires; 44 20 7842 9269;
susannah.rodgers@dowjones.com


Document dji0000020010725dx2800l37
 

 

 Zurich Fincl Issues Pft Warning, Cites Reinsurance 

 By Martin Gelnar 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
587 words
8 February 2001
12:39
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 ZURICH -(Dow Jones)- Zurich Financial Services Group (Z.ZFS) warned Thursday that 2000 profits would be hurt by a reinsurance and weather-related extraordinary charge of $400 million. 

 Europe's second-largest insurer said its so-called normalized net income, the company's main profit figure, will be marginally below 1999's $2.286 billion, with $2.2 billion being the lower end in 2000. 

 "It's a disappointment, of course. Now Zurich has to convince us first this is extraordinary," said Bank Sal. Oppenheim analyst Heinrich-Horst Wiemer. 

 Zurich Financial was the second Swiss insurer to say 2000 was a tough year after Swiss Re (Z.REI), the world's second largest reinsurer, announced Wednesday a below-average net profit growth rate of 20% for 2000, also disappointing some observers. 

 The common theme was the weak global reinsurance market. Though rates have risen recently and executives at Swiss Re and France's Scor are predicting an upturn this year and next, reinsurers had a tough 2000. 

 "Zurich and Swiss Re both reported lower-than-expected figures, and the cause is exactly the same - reinsurance," said Commerzbank analyst Chris Hitchings, adding that Zurich's announcment wasn't "totally unexpected." 

 The warning sent Zurich Financial's shares into a free fall. The stock slumped CHF86, or more than 9%, to CHF838 on the Swiss bourse at 1130 GMT. 

 Bank Sarasin cut its price target to CHF960 from CHF1,000 after the profit warning. 

 Sal. Oppenheim's Wiemer, though he maintain a "buy" on Zurich Financial and is targeting a price of CHF1,000 over the next 12 months, noted he prefers Swiss Re (Z.REI) to Zurich Financial Services in the insurance sector. He added he wouldn't sell Zurich stocks at the current price level. 

 Zurich said that normalized earnings per share, calculated in Swiss francs, will increase by close to 10% because of a positive currency impact. It earns most of its income in dollars. 

 The group said realized capital gains in 2000 declined by around 20% due to weaker market conditions on their year-ago level of $2.15 billion. 

 Its $400 million pretax charge comprised $300 million of reserve strengthening related to risk reinsurance treaties and unexpected adverse developments in the U.S. and non-life claims of more than $100 million. 

 The group also said unifying its double share structure in 2000 had a negative earnings impact of $100 million. 

 Until last year, Zurich Financial Services had a complicated double holding structure following a merger with the financial services arm of B.A.T. International Inc. (BAAT), resulting in a listing both on the Zurich and the London bourses. 

 The group introduced the concept of normalized net income for its 1999 results in order to smooth the impact of capital gains volatility. 

 Under this setup, actual capital gains are replaced by so-called normalized capital gains, which reflect the level of gains the group expects to realize over the medium term. Normalized capital gains are calculated by applying a rate of 7.5% of the group's equity portfolio and 0.5% of the bond portfolio. 

 Apart from forecasting favorable non-life and reinsurance pricing trends, Zurich didn't give any 2001 outlook. More news may come out of a telephone conference scheduled for 1430 GMT. 

 Company Web site: http://www.zurich.com

 -By Martin Gelnar, Dow Jones Newswires; +41 1 211 6588; martin.gelnar@dowjones.com 

Document dji0000020010725dx2800kv5
 

 

 Coles dives on  profit warning . 

 By Louise Brannelly. 
630 words
8 February 2001
Courier Mail
COUMAI
29
English
(c) 2001 Queensland Newspapers Pty Ltd

 RETAILING giant Coles Myer has forecast a 17 percent dive in underlying full-year profit and foreshadowed one-off remedial costs of up to $50 million to reposition its ailing Myer Grace Bros and Target chains. The dire prognosis sent the retailer's stock hurtling 4 percent or 26 lower to a seven-month trough of $6.29. Coles Myer chief executive Dennis Eck warned yesterday that underlying profit after tax for the full year would fall to roughly $400 million, assuming a stable economy and a less disruptive second half. The group racked up $484 million in profit for the 53-week 2000 financial year. Mr Eck said one-off remedial costs of $30-50 million would limit group net profit after tax to $350 million to $370 million, compared with $301 million last financial year. The stock has come in for bucketing by analysts who have been forced to downgrade their already revised forecasts in light of the worse-than-expected full-year outlook. 

  Australian Equities Research analyst Anne Barnett called the news disappointing and has slashed her full-year profit forecast by a further 16 percent to $359 million. "What concerns me is that they said for Myer Grace margins would only revert to 2 percent next year and Target 3 percent, which implies this year's margins are really going to be slashed," she said. In second-quarter figures released yesterday, Coles Myer revealed sales of $12.3 billion for the half year ended January 28, just 5.5 percent up on a year ago, adjusted for GST and wholesale tax. Post-GST customer worries, a poor Myer Grace performance and disappointing post Christmas clearance sales took a toll, with first-half sales growing only 2.4 percent on a comparable store basis. "We are confident that sales and margins will strengthen as we cycle this disruptive half and benefits from our actions emerge," Mr Eck said yesterday. "Based on current estimates, we expect net profit after tax in the range of $485 million to $500 million in financial year 2002." He said the board had accepted new US recruit Warren Flick's recommendations concerning the remedial and repositioning action needed to get Myer Grace and Target back on track. The up to $50 million in costs will allow Target to restock and Myer Grace to address issues of additional service, redesigning merchandise ranges and redoing store layouts and environments. Mr Eck said food and liquor sales growth remained consistently strong across both quarters, up 8.3 percent in the half to $7.2 billion and accounting for 60 percent of group sales. He said the arrival of German cut price supermarket chain Aldi was not expected to hurt group earnings. General merchandise sales spurted 6.3 percent to $1.94 billion, while apparel and home division sales grew 3.6 percent to $1.34 billion. Myer Grace was a blight on the half, with sales toppling 6 percent to $1.68 billion due largely to post Christmas clearance sales being substantially down on the previous year. "Customer dissatisfaction with service levels and merchandise ranges also hampered the result," he said. Myer Grace sales grew 2 percent in the nine weeks to December 31 only to plummet almost 35 percent in the four weeks to January 28. General merchandise sales fell 1.1 percent in January and apparel and home division sales slid almost 13 percent. Mr Eck said the pricing effect of the GST was most evident in the 5.7 percent decline in apparel sales during the half and in the difference between customer outlays and reported sales. He said target sales were up 7 percent for the half, supported by early pre-Christmas clearance sales. 

Document coumai0020010710dx28008vn
 

 

 Misfiring Detroit drags Daimler into red zone. 

 By John Cranage. 
404 words
8 February 2001
Birmingham Post
BMP
26
English
(c) 2001  Birmingham Post & Mail Ltd

 Global automotive giant DaimlerChrysler revealed yesterday that its ailing American division had dragged the group into the red in the last quarter of 2000 and halved its full-year operating profits. 

 The Stuttgart-based group unexpectedly released last year's trading results just two days after chairman Juergen Schrempp, whose job is widely believed to be in jeopardy, flew to the Middle East to break the bad news to DaimlerChrysler's second-biggest investor, the Emir of Kuwait. 

 The results announcement, which followed December's profit warning, was not due to have been made until February 26. 

 Annual operating profits were halved to #3.3 billion from #6.6 billion the year before after a severe turndown in the fortunes at Chrysler in the US. 

 Group net profit, excluding expceptional items, fell by 44 per cent to #2.2 billion, while earnings per share were down too. 

 Sales rose by eight per cent to #103 billion. 

 However, international attention is focused on last year's fourth quarter. DaimlerChrysler yesterday refused to release specific figures for the period, but, based on previous data, it is thought that a third-quarter profit of #345 million degenerated into a loss of #255 million. 

 The cash outflow from Detroit was cushioned by a one-off gain of #2.9 billion from the sale of non-core interests. 

 The bad news from Detroit has savaged DaimlerChrysler's share price in recent months. 

 But the group yesterday tried to keep investors sweet by pegging its dividend at #1.50. 

 Some investors had feared that low liquidity and the large amounts that the group is having to spend on shoring up Chrysler would lead to a dividend cut. 

 The company gave no separate figures for its ailing Chrysler division. 

 But December's letter to shareholders revealed that dollar-denominated fourth-quarter losses at the unit would be around $1.25 billion ( #856 million), up from $512 million ( #350 million) in the previous three months. 

 'People think the management is trying to get the negative news out of the company and to show the market that there will be a turnaround,' one trader said. 

 Investors are eagerly awaiting a restructuring programme for Chrysler, to be presented on February 28. 

 The company has promised to cuts jobs at Chrysler by 20 per cent and material costs by 15 per cent in two years. 

Document bmp0000020010710dx28002a8
 

 

 US Canada Business Briefs 

762 words
8 February 2001
16:15
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
English
 Copyright 2001.  The Associated Press.  All Rights Reserved. 

 WISCONSIN RAPIDS, Wisconsin (AP) - Finnish paper company Stora Enso Oyj said its acquisition last year of Consolidated Papers Inc. increased its 2000 sales by 6 percent. 

 The new Wisconsin Rapids-based Stora Enso North America contributed about dlrs 838 million to the parent company's sales last year, based on currency exchange rates Wednesday. 

 The former Consolidated mills accounted for more than a third of Stora Enso's fourth-quarter sales of magazine paper. 

 For the year, Stora Enso reported a 22 percent increase in sales, from dlrs 9.43 billion in 1999 to dlrs 12.12 billion in 2000, the company said. 

 The company also reported a 92 percent increase in profits over 1999. 

 The nearly dlrs 4 billion acquisition of Consolidated was completed in early September. 

 Stora Enso president and CEO Jukka Harmala said he was cautious about his projections for 2001, largely because of the weakening U.S. economy. 

 --- 

 NEW YORK (AP) - WorldCom Inc.'s fourth-quarter earnings dropped 44 percent as long-distance revenue declined, but the results were in line with Wall Street estimates. 

 The telephone and Internet company said Thursday it earned dlrs 726 million, or 25 cents a share, in the October-December period, compared with dlrs 1.3 billion, or 44 cents a share, in the same period a year ago. 

 That was in line with analyst forecasts, according to a survey by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Sales were up more than 3 percent to dlrs 9.6 billion, compared with dlrs 9.3 billion a year ago. 

 The Clinton, Mississippi-based company, which said in November it will spin off a tracking stock for its long-distance, calling card and dial-up Internet businesses, reported separate results for its WorldCom Group and MCI Group. 

 The company's WorldCom Group, which includes its international, data and Internet operations sectors, led the company's growth with dlrs 5.8 billion in revenue for the quarter, up from dlrs 5 billion in the same period a year ago. 

 --- 

 JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP) - U.S. home appliance manufacturer Whirlpool Corp. and South African peer Defy Appliances Ltd. are interested in buying the manufacturing operations of ailing Masterfridge Ltd., Whirlpool and Defy executives said Thursday. 

 John O'Brien, the managing director of Whirlpool South Africa Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the U.S. group, told Dow Jones Newswires his company is interested and had toured the company's manufacturing site in Swaziland with a technical team. 

 But he said that no decisions had been made and that any negotiations were in the early stages. 

 Masterfridge, South Africa's biggest manufacturer and distributor of refrigerators, has been suffering from severe cash-flow problems and gave a profit warning in December. 

 Lackluster sales over Christmas pushed the company into provisional liquidation in late January. 

 --- 

 NEW YORK (AP) - Apparel chain retailer Gap Inc. on Thursday reported disappointing January sales and forecast that first-quarter earnings would fall short of Wall Street estimates. 

 The company said same-store sales in January fell 12 percent from a year earlier due to deep markdowns implemented to clear merchandise. 

 Citing uncertainty in consumer spending and tighter margins, Gap said it now expects fourth-quarter earnings of 30 to 31 cents a share, below analysts' consensus estimate of 33 cents as compiled by market research firm First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 In a press release, Gap said total sales for the five weeks ended Feb. 3 rose 31 percent to dlrs 938 million from dlrs 719 million a year ago. 

 --- 

 CINCINNATI (AP) - Federated Department Stores Inc. will close its Stern's department store group, eliminating about 2,600 of the division's 7,400 jobs while converting most of the stores to Macy's and Bloomingdale's. 

 Federated said Thursday it plans to convert 19 of Stern's 24 stores, which are all in New York and New Jersey, to Macy's and Bloomingdale's. The other five Stern's stores will be closed and sold. 

 James M. Zimmerman, Federated's chairman and chief executive, said the changeover is intended to strengthen Macy's and Bloomingdale's in their home markets. 

 The shutdown of the Stern's retail group, based in Paramus, New Jersey, will cost dlrs 130 million to dlrs 150 million, Federated officials said. 

 The Cincinnati-based company has annual sales of dlrs 18.4 billion. It operates more than 400 department stores in 33 states and Puerto Rico under the names of Bloomingdale's, The Bon Marche, Burdines, Goldsmith's, Lazarus, Macy's, Rich's and Stern's. 

Rush

Document aprs000020010710dx2800rhu
 

 

 PRESS DIGEST - Wall Street Journal - Feb 7. 

491 words
7 February 2001
08:29
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Feb 7 (Reuters) - The following stories were reported in the electronic version of The Wall Street Journal Wednesday: 

 * Cisco missed analysts' targets for the first time in almost seven years and lowered growth expectations for the next six months, as it suffers from disarray among telecom customers and the economic slowdown. 

 * Hughes and News Corp. have intensified merger talks, with a deal possible soon. Under the plan, Hughes would merge with Sky Global to form an entity valued at $60 billion to $70 billion. 

 * California energy negotiators have come up with a plan they say could aid the nearly bankrupt utilities while limiting the state's direct financial exposure. 

 * The Energy Department is offering grants to increase efficiency and reduce pollution at coal-fired power plants. 

 * Former officials at Xerox Mexico say U.S. executives ignored early warning signs about accounting problems and intensified pressure to meet profit goals. 

 * Standard & Poor's cut its outlook for GM and Ford to negative, warning their profits are coming under pressure amid competition at home and weak results abroad. 

 * JDS Uniphase received regulatory approval for its $17 billion acquisition of SDL , after agreeing to sell a laser-chip unit to Nortel for as much as $3 billion. 

 * Internet trader "Tokyo Joe" agreed to return about $750,000 in a settlement. Securities regulators charge he failed to tell investors he had bought stocks before recommending them and then sold them as prices rose. 

 * Verizon is expected to announce on Wednesday that it will create a multinational network to serve large businesses, pitting itself more directly against global long-distance companies such as AT&T and WorldCom . 

 * Disney's earnings slightly beat forecasts but net slid due to charges, mostly related to changes in film accounting. The chairman of Disney's Internet Group said its Web operations would become profitable by the end of fiscal 2002. 

 * Kmart reached a $4.5 billion-a-year agreement with Fleming for the wholesaler to become its only food supplier. 

 * Sunbeam filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11, citing its mounting debt and shareholder litigation. 

 * Michael Powell, the new chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, said the agency will adopt a more cautious approach that emphasises deregulation, not government intervention. 

 * Investors took a wait-and-see approach ahead of Cisco Systems' earnings, with the Nasdaq composite adding 21.28 to 2664.49 and the Dow industrials easing 8.43 to 10957.42. 

 * PacifiCare reported an 82 percent drop in net and announced plans to turn itself into a diversified health-care company. 

 * Amazon will begin charging publishers a fee in exchange for a better shot at having their books recommended to customers via e-mail. 

 * Cnet Networks said its profit excluding charges was in line with analysts' forecasts, but warned that slowing market conditions would crimp earnings this year and cause it to cut 10 percent of its staff. 

Document lba0000020010713dx270654d
 

 

 UPDATE 3-Schlumberger seen preparing to bid for Sema. 

 By Sophy Tonder 
966 words
5 February 2001
19:51
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 (Adds Sema comment, stock quote, details throughout and analyst comments) 

 PARIS, Feb 5 (Reuters) - U.S. oilfield services to smartcard company Schlumberger is lining up a loan of some $3 billion ahead of a possible bid for troubled Anglo-French information technology services firm Sema , banking sources said on Monday. 

 Sema, ravaged by two recent profit warnings due to lower-than-expected revenues from its telecom business, confirmed only that it had received approaches from certain parties that could lead to an offer. Its shares gained as much as 20 percent after the statement. 

 The banking sources told Reuters that Schlumberger - which recently has pushed to bulk up its non-oil services businesses - was talking to about five of its closest-relationship banks to raise cash to make the bid. 

 "It is most likely to take the form of a loan. There are a group of banks that have been in talks here, and we are talking about $3 billion for the moment," one banker said. 

 Schlumberger officials in New York, where the company is based, and Paris both declined to comment. Schlumberger shares gained 72 cents to $77.72 in early afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Though several other suitors, including U.K. technology firm Logica Plc , are considered better fits for Sema, industry analysts said Schlumberger could use Sema to complement its main oil service businesses, which have become technology-intensive as exploration for new reserves requires much computing power. 

 The acquisition would also complement Schlumberger's recent efforts to purchase technology-related businesses in an attempt to protect its bottom line from a downturn in the energy business. 

 Sema provides information technology systems for corporations and also has a growing wireless technology division, which could fit in with Schlumberger's smartcard and semiconductor activities, analysts said. Sema has been viewed as vulnerable to a takeover since its share price plunged following profit warnings in November and last month. 

 Shares in Sema, which fell more than 80 percent between September and January, soared on speculation about a takeover bid, closing up 13 percent in London at 445.50 pence, adding nearly half a billion pounds to the company's market value. Its American Depository Shares were up $2, or nearly 18 percent, to $13.25 in early afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Sema is valued at 2.9 billion pounds ($4.29 billion), a digestible sum for Schlumberger, which has a market capitalization of more than 47 billion euros ($44 billion). 

 MORE LIKELY SUITORS 

 Schlumberger has been rumored to be interested in Sema for weeks, but some observers questioned whether the U.S. company would be the best fit for Sema. 

 "We were not expecting a tie-up with Schlumberger. There are other groups that offer better synergies," a trader said. 

 In particular, industry analysts see Sema's British rival Logica as a potential predator, though it declined to comment. Dealers said others may include French computer services group Cap Gemini Ernst & Young . 

 Sema has been diversifying out of its traditional computer system integration business into wireless software technology, such as billing services. 

 "A U.S. company would make more sense. With Logica and CMG , there is too much overlap in wireless technology, and with Cap Gemini there is too much in systems integration," said analyst Claire Thomas at Gartmore. CMG (Computer Management Group) is an Angle-Dutch information technology services firm. 

 But analysts said they wanted to see if Schlumberger would be interested in consuming all of Sema or in breaking it up. 

 "Schlumberger has shown a propensity to make acquisitions to the technology side of their business," said Jim Wicklund, an analyst with Dain Rauscher Wessels. "But the question is, can Schlumberger management make this acquisition work?" 

 Jamie Stone, an oilfield services analyst with UBS Warburg, said that if Schlumberger acquired Sema, or a similar company, he hoped it would be a precursor to a sale or spinoff of its non-oilfield businesses, which include "smart cards" and semiconductor testing. 

 "Given the fact that the non-oilfield businesses are contributing an insignificant amount of earnings as well as a fairly small amount of cash flow, I don't think there's a lot of value in Schlumberger's share price for these non-oilfield businesses," Stone said. "These business are a real drag right now on return on capital and return on equity." 

 In 2000 Schlumberger's non-oilfield businesses generated pretax operating income of $41 million on revenues of $2.65 billion. while oilfield services generated pretax operating income of $997 million on revenues of $7.03 billion. 

 A FALL FROM GRACE 

 Sema's decline from market darling a year ago to one of the worst-performing London stocks in the last three months began with the acquisition in 2000 of LHS Group Inc., a German-American software company, for some $4.7 billion, a price that raised eyebrows. 

 In its first profit warning in November, Sema blamed a significant deterioration of its third-quarter performance on LHS. Sema saw its value including LHS slump to some $3.6 billion before Monday's news. 

 "Sema have lost a lot of credibility," said Thomas. "For the LHS acquisition to have fallen so far short of their expectations really is a concern." 

 In Sema, Schlumberger would gain a major information technology and business service company with engineers based at 160 locations worldwide. 

 Sema also has a growing business in energy and utility companies. It is already providing consultancy and systems integration services to Dutch electricity commodity brokerage Amsterdam Power Exchange. 

 It has also done projects for Spanish utility Compania Operadora del Mercado Espanol de la Eletricitad (Comel). ($1=.6781 Pound) ($1=1.063 Euro). 

Document lba0000020010713dx25061i6
 

 Pewaukee, Wis., Electronic System Designer Issues  Profit Warning 

 Thomas Content 
506 words
5 February 2001
Knight Ridder Tribune Business News - KRTBN
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2001 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 The stock price of APW Ltd. dropped 9.7 percent Friday after the company responded to the economic downturn by issuing a much more conservative outlook for its fiscal year that ends in August. 

 The Pewaukee designer and manufacturer of large electronic systems and circuit boards issued its warning based on six weeks of deteriorating activity from its customers in the telecommunications and computer sectors. 

 Investors' decision to move away from the stock was prompted by the surprisingly gloomy tone APW management took on its conference call with analysts, just a week after an upbeat conference call to announce the company's most recent acquisition. 

 "I don't know whether we're going to have a recession or not," said Richard Sim, chairman, president and chief executive officer of APW. "But we are saying the next six months are going to be pretty crappy, that we're on the front end of a downward slide, and we'll get to the bottom somewhere out there in two to three months, and then start to come back." 

 The company's stock, which has traded in a range of $45 to $26 since August, closed Friday at $35.20, down $3.79. More than 2 million shares were traded, 7.5 times the average volume in the past three months. 

 The surprise factor had much to do with stock's decline the last few days, said David Kwon, an associate at Credit Suisse First Boston. 

 "Just last week they seemed pretty quiet about it. You had no idea this was coming," he said. 

 APW executives said the dropoff in customer business hit quickly in recent days and weeks. In the second half of January, customers kept revising their forecasts and delaying orders placed previously with the company, Sim said. 

 "It's a very fluid situation. We live in a very closely coupled worldwide economy, and decisions get transferred down the supply chain very fast," he said. 

 The company is evaluating its staffing and cost levels, and banking that the next six months won't be robust, even as it is banking on overall sales growth to be in the range of 32 percent for the fiscal year. 

 APW declined to project its outlook for the coming two quarters, but said the current quarter's sales will be 7 percent to 9 percent below earlier projections, and that earnings would also be affected. 

 The new earnings projection of $1.95 to $2 for the year is at least 16 percent below the most recent average estimate of nine brokers surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 The company's long-term prospects remain strong, Sim said, given its market share lead and its ability to continue projecting that sales will increase by at least 30 percent a year, including acquisitions. 

 Applied Power Inc. on Aug. 1 spun off Actuant Corp., the Glendale-based industrial part of its business. Applied Power retained its electronics [divis] and changed its name to APW. 

Document krtbn00020010711dx2500f6n
 

 Interest rate  cut  fails to rally market. 

 By ANNA FENECH. 
429 words
4 February 2001
Sunday Telegraph
SUNTEL
93
English
(c) 2001 Nationwide News Proprietary Ltd

 The Nasdaq has suffered its first losing week in a month, failing to mount a convincing rally following the US Federal Reserve's interest rate cut. 

 Federal Reserve chairman Dr Alan Greenspan delivered a 0.5 per cent interest rate cut last week, after citing the need for a "rapid and forceful response" to slowing economic growth. 

 The Nasdaq's 4.3 per cent fall reflected concerns computer and telecommunications companies' profits would disappoint investors. 

 On the last day of trading, the new economy Nasdaq tumbled 122.29 points (4.39 per cent) to 2660.50 while the old economy Dow Jones Industrial Average slipped 119.53 points (1.09 per cent) to 10,864.10. The Dow held its own over the week, up a modest 1.9 per cent. 

 Cisco Systems, which reports its financial results on Tuesday, led the Nasdaq losses. 

 US labour statistics showed the economy added more jobs than expected in January, which eased concerns about a coming recession. 

 However, it followed numerous US reports showing worse than expected falls in consumer confidence and profit growth. 

 On the local market, the All Ordinaries took heart from the US interest rate cut, ending the week up 1.1 per cent. However, on Friday it lost 7.4 points or 0.2 per cent. 

 Newscorp dropped 11c to $17.57 on concerns about the future of the proposed SkyGlobal float and the effect a slowdown may have on advertising revenue. Publishing and Broadcasting and John Fairfax Holdings also suffered. 

 One of the local market's worst performers was underwear and music retailer Brazin, which lost 12 cents to $1.58 after warning soft retail conditions would cut first half profit. 

 Travel group Flight Centre said its operating profit before tax for the first half would be up 15 per cent on the same period last year. This sent Flight Centre's shares 81 cents higher to $25.70. 

 Telstra fell 6.8 cents to $7.10, leading the telco sector down while banks reported healthy gains. 

 In good news for investors and borrowers, the Reserve Bank of Australia board meets on Tuesday and is expected to cut official interest rates by 0.25 per cent to 6 per cent or by 0.5 per cent to 5.75 per cent. The first scenario would save NSW home loan borrowers $25 a month on the average $150,000 25-year loan. 

 Many economists are predicting a total one per cent cut in official interest rates over 2001. 

Document suntel0020010715dx24001h6
 

 

 Companies: European Companies 

392 words
2 February 2001
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
4
English
 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Scottish Power Sees 

 Pretax Profit Decline

 LONDON -- Scottish Power reported that pretax profit dropped 15% in the third-quarter, but analysts are optimistic that the U.K. electricity group's exposure to the U.S. energy crisis will be contained. 

 The company said its third-quarter pretax profit before amortization and exceptional items fell to GBP 168.9 million (264.7 million euros) from GBP 199.3 million in the same period the year before. 

 "The results certainly gave greater clarity on the extent of the exposure in the States both in terms of amounts and time," said a London analyst at a major investment bank. The firm's U.S. unit, PacifiCorp, has been hit by a range of problems, including the closure of its Hunter power station in Utah, for up to six months after a fire, which forced the company to buy its power at wholesale prices inflated by California's electricity crisis. (Dow Jones) 

 --- 

 Valeo Net Profit Drops 35% 

 PARIS -- Automotive supplier Valeo SA reported a 35% drop in 2000 net profit to 368 million euros, but beat analysts' expectations of 354 million euros. Operating profit rise 18% to 573 million euros, in line with forecasts. Revenue grew 18% to 9.12 billion euros from 7.72 billion euros. Valeo had issued a profit-warning to prepare the market. Investments grew 20% over the year to 661 million euros, or about 7% of total revenue, Valeo said. The group sees a sharp slowdown in the European automobile market in Europe this year, a drop in sales volume in the U.S. in the first half and a softening of the Asian market. It also said the cost of raw materials will remain high over the first half. (Dow Jones) 

 --- 

 AstraZeneca, IBM Strike Deal 

 LONDON -- AstraZeneca PLC and International Business Machines Corp. said they have signed a $1.7 billion (1.82 billion euros) global strategic-outsourcing agreement. AstraZeneca said the seven-year deal, covering the provision of infrastructure services to 45 countries, is the largest of its kind in the pharmaceuticals sector. AstraZeneca said under the agreement IBM will provide a range of services including network and communications services and computer-operations support, but the pharmaceuticals company will retain control of its technical strategy and the development and support of its application systems. (Dow Jones) 

Document wsje000020010713dx22001mc
 

 

 Computer Network shares hammered after  profit warning . 

 By Cyntia Barrera Diaz 
335 words
2 February 2001
18:54
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Feb 2 (Reuters) - Shares of Computer Network Technology Corp. fell nearly 40 percent on Friday, one day after the storage networking company warned that it expects several quarters of weak results. 

 Computer Network, among the the top percentage and net decliners on Nasdaq, was down $11-7/8 to $17-15/16 on hefty afternoon volume of 4.2 million shares. Despite the decline, the stock was still above its 52-week low of $11-1/8. 

 On Thursday night, Computer Network said it expects fourth-quarter earnings from continued operations of about 17 cents per share on revenues of $47 million, below current Wall Street projections. 

 "The surprise or disappointment is that they participate in the storage network sector, which has been a pretty hot area, one that hasn't really slowed down too much," Miller Johnson Steichen Kinnard analyst Clint Morrison told Reuters. 

 Computer Network sells products to connect data storage over wide area networks. 

 Many market watchers believe Computer Network stock is now oversold, but they say the heavy sell-off was a natural reaction to economic uncertainty. The company said consumer spending had been slower than it expected. 

 "My sense in the marketplace is that 38 percent (decline in the stock) is a bit tough," said Rob Schafer, an analyst with the META Group. 

 "They certainly continue to be in transition from fundamentally a channel extension company to a storage networking (company)," he said. "Transitions are always difficult, so it's not surprising that they had this downturn in general and specifically in this quarter." 

 Analysts agreed that Computer Network's solid cash position and proprietary products increase its opportunities to better weather economic sluggishness. 

 "They have tons of cash, they are still very profitable," said Miller Johnson's Morrison. "They have technology and solutions that nobody else has, pretty much the leader in their field." 

 Computer Network shares' all-time high of $40 was Nov. 15, 2000. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2205za1
 

 

 ADR REPORT - Foreign shares slide on U.S. economy fears. 

 By Denise Duclaux 
492 words
2 February 2001
18:03
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Feb 2 (Reuters) - Foreign shares traded in U.S. markets slipped on Friday, led by technology companies, as investors feared the flagging U.S. economy would eat into corporate profits and drag on global markets. 

 "Most have negative signs next to them," said Dominic Freud, head of European equities at SG Cowen. "In Europe, there is a very high degree of conviction that the U.S. economy is heading south at a fairly rapid pace. There is more confidence about the European economies, but there is concern that there is also a slowdown coming." 

 The Bank of New York's American Depositary Receipt (ADRs) index lost 1.45 percent. Meanwhile, the blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average fell 0.44 percent to 10,935 by midday, while the tech-packed Nasdaq Composite Index dropped 2.44 percent to 2,714. 

 The Bank of New York's index of leading European ADRs fell 1.61 percent, led lower by weakness in high-technology companies. 

 Nokia dropped $1.25 to $33.12 after the world's largest mobile phone maker said it would achieve substantial savings by shifting some of its handset manufacturing from the United States to its lower-cost facilities in South Korea and Mexico and cutting 800 U.S. jobs. 

 French telecom equipment firm Alcatel fell $2.72 to $57.63 after Merrill Lynch cut its investment rating, saying it will face a more difficult year than anticipated. 

 German semiconductor maker Infineon Technologies fell $2 to $42.55 on cuts in broker profit forecasts and on the back of a profit warning by U.S. peer National Semiconductor . 

 German telecoms giant Deutsche Telekom slipped $1.36 to $31.89. France Telecom dropped $3.26 to $87.25 and Telecom Italia edged down $0.78 to $126.47. 

 The Bank of New York's index of leading Latin American ADRs edged 0.33 percent lower. 

 Mexican telecom bellwether Telmex edged up $0.23 to $54.19. Broadcaster TV Azteca nosed down $0.16 to $10.34. Mexican construction and cement giant Cemex was down $0.06 to $21.29. 

 Brazilian telecom company Tele Norte Leste Participacoes SA shed $0.34 to $23.30. Brazilian cellular phone service provider Telecomunicacoes De Sao Paulo SA, or Telesp, , lost $0.94 to $14.91. Embratel Participacoes SA fell $0.60 to $15.15. 

 The Bank of New York's Index of leading Asian companies fell $1.25 to $115.24. 

 Japanese electronics giant Sony Corp. fell $1.79 to $71.12. Technology companies Hitachi Ltd. lost $1.18 to $92.40, Kyocera Corp. dropped $2.48 to $105.50 and NEC Corp. fell $2-3/16 to $99. 

 China Mobile (Hong Kong) shed $0.85 to $31.75. Chinese wireless carrier China Unicom inched down $0.04 to $16.36 and oil giant Petrochina shed $0.08 to $17.12. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2205y8f
 

 

 U.S. stocks seen slipping - market to take cues from jobs data. 

 By Elizabeth Lazarowitz 
774 words
2 February 2001
13:10
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Feb 2 (Reuters) - Stocks are expected to open flat to a touch lower on Friday as investors look to a key employment report for hints to whether U.S. economic growth is slowing dramatically. 

 The January jobs report, set for release at 8:30 a.m. EST (1330 GMT), arrives after a batch of dreary U.S. economic data and is expected to underscore the need for further interest-rate cuts by the Federal Reserve. 

 "People are biding time to see what happens with rate cuts and the economic outlook," said James Volk, co-director, institutional trading at D.A. Davidson & Co. 

 With more than an hour to go before the opening bell, Standard & Poor's 500 index futures for March were down 0.60 points at 1,381.90. Nasdaq 100 index futures were off 4.50 points at 2,623.00, pointing to a drop of 0.2 percent at the open. 

 The Fed cut interest rates by 50 basis points on Wednesday, saying the economy's deterioration called for "rapid and forceful" action and signaling it would cut interest rates further if necessary. 

 That followed a similar half-percentage point cut earlier in the month that came well ahead of the Fed's regularly scheduled policy-setting meeting and took the financial markets by surprise. 

 "Everybody is pretty well convinced that we are going to get rate cuts going forward," Volk said. "But the next meeting is in march so I think how these economic stats play out over the next couple of months to see whether these rate cuts we've had are already taking effect." 

 U.S. economists on average predicted payrolls increased by 83,000 in January, well below the 105,000 jobs created in December, according to a Reuters survey. They also expected the unemployment rate to tick up slightly to 4.1 percent from 4.0 percent in the prior month. 

 Economists in the poll forecast a 0.3 percent rise in January's average hourly earnings - closely watched as a gauge of wage inflation - following a 0.4 percent rise in December. 

 Wall Street will get another dose of data as the trading session gets under way, with a report on December factory orders and the University of Michigan's gauge of consumer sentiment, both due at 10 a.m. EST (1500 GMT). 

 Traders will also be looking at corporate news and particularly earnings. Stock market investors have been worried over how much U.S. corporate profits will be hurt in the slowing economic environment. 

 Dell Computer Corp., the world's second-biggest computer maker, announced it expected to post total sales of $32 billion in the financial year ending Feb. 2, maintaining its pre-profit warning forecast. 

 Storage networking company Computer Network Technology Corp. after Thursday's market close blamed a sluggish economy for what it anticipates will be a lower-than-expected operating profit for the next several quarters. 

 After nearly two years of shopping for a cable television deal, film studio Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. on Thursday agreed to buy 20 percent of Cablevision Systems Corp.'s Rainbow Media for $825 million in cash. 

 On Thursday, blue-chip stocks posted their highest close in more than four months as expectations the Federal Reserve will fire off another round of interest-rate cuts to pump up the U.S. economy tempered fears the nation is near the brink of recession. 

 The blue-chip Dow Jones Industrial average climbed 96.27 points, or 0.88 percent, to close at 10,983.63. It gathered steam late in the trading session to land at its highest level since Sept. 14 and within striking distance of the key 11,000 level. 

 The technology-stacked Nasdaq composite index inched up 10.06 points, or 0.36 percent, to 2,782.79. The benchmark Standard & Poor's 500 rose 7.46 points, or 0.55 percent, to 1,373.47. 

 A key industry report on Thursday showed U.S. manufacturing activity had contracted for a sixth straight month in January. Earlier in the week, a government report revealed that the U.S. economy slumped to its slowest pace in more than 5 years in the last quarter of 2000. 

 In overseas markets, jitters over softer U.S. growth and a stronger yen sent Tokyo shares lower. The benchmark Nikkei-225 index fell 0.55 percent. 

 European shares eased back as investors there too awaited the U.S. jobs report. The pan-European Eurotop 300 slipped 0.2 percent. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2205y0z
 

 

 U.S. stocks to open flat as traders mull mixed jobs data. 

 By Elizabeth Lazarowitz 
826 words
2 February 2001
14:19
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Feb 2 (Reuters) - Stocks are expected to open near the unchanged mark on Friday after a report on the U.S. labor market gave mixed results showing the U.S. economy may not be slowing as dramatically as many had thought. 

 The employment report showed unemployment ticked up in January, but that was countered by a stronger-than-expected gain in job creation, leading traders to question the urgency of the Federal Reserve's interest-rate-cutting campaign. 

 Stock futures initially reacted negatively to the news, and flip-flopped as the market dissected the data. 

 "It just continues to show an easing of the economy but not a precipitous fall-off in the economy," said Larry Rice, chief investment officer, Josephthal Lyon & Ross. "It's a gradual easing with a more pronounced effect in manufacturing." 

 With about half an hour to go before the opening bell, Standard & Poor's 500 index futures for March were down 0.40 points at 1,382.10. Nasdaq 100 index futures were off 9 points at 2,618.50, pointing to a drop of 0.3 percent at the open. 

 U.S. January non-farm payrolls rose 268,000, far above the 83,000 forecast by Wall Street, following a downwardly revised 19,000 gain in December. Unemployment ticked up to 4.2 percent, it's highest level since September 1999 from a 4.0 percent rate in December. 

 January's average hourly earnings - closely watched as a gauge of wage inflation - were unchanged, well below the anticipated 0.3 percent gain. 

 "People are biding time to see what happens with rate cuts and the economic outlook," said James Volk, co-director, institutional trading at D.A. Davidson & Co. 

 The Fed cut interest rates by 50 basis points on Wednesday, saying the economy's deterioration called for "rapid and forceful" action and signaling it would cut interest rates further if necessary. 

 That followed a similar half-percentage point cut earlier in the month that came well ahead of the Fed's regularly scheduled policy-setting meeting and took the financial markets by surprise. 

 "Everybody is pretty well convinced that we are going to get rate cuts going forward," Volk said. "But the next meeting is in march so I think how these economic stats play out over the next couple of months to see whether these rate cuts we've had are already taking effect." 

 Wall Street will get another dose of data as the trading session gets under way, with a report on December factory orders and the University of Michigan's gauge of consumer sentiment, both due at 10 a.m. EST (1500 GMT). 

 Traders will also be looking at corporate news and particularly earnings. Stock market investors have been worried over how much U.S. corporate profits will be hurt in the slowing economic environment. 

 Dell Computer Corp., the world's second-biggest computer maker, announced it expected to post total sales of $32 billion in the financial year ending Feb. 2, maintaining its pre-profit warning forecast. 

 Storage networking company Computer Network Technology Corp. after Thursday's market close blamed a sluggish economy for what it anticipates will be a lower-than-expected operating profit for the next several quarters. 

 After nearly two years of shopping for a cable television deal, film studio Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc. on Thursday agreed to buy 20 percent of Cablevision Systems Corp.'s Rainbow Media for $825 million in cash. 

 On Thursday, blue-chip stocks posted their highest close in more than four months as expectations the Federal Reserve will fire off another round of interest-rate cuts to pump up the U.S. economy tempered fears the nation is near the brink of recession. 

 The blue-chip Dow Jones Industrial average climbed 96.27 points, or 0.88 percent, to close at 10,983.63. It gathered steam late in the trading session to land at its highest level since Sept. 14 and within striking distance of the key 11,000 level. 

 The technology-stacked Nasdaq composite index inched up 10.06 points, or 0.36 percent, to 2,782.79. The benchmark Standard & Poor's 500 rose 7.46 points, or 0.55 percent, to 1,373.47. 

 A key industry report on Thursday showed U.S. manufacturing activity had contracted for a sixth straight month in January. Earlier in the week, a government report revealed that the U.S. economy slumped to its slowest pace in more than 5 years in the last quarter of 2000. 

 In overseas markets, jitters over softer U.S. growth and a stronger yen sent Tokyo shares lower. The benchmark Nikkei-225 index fell 0.55 percent. 

 European shares ticked a touch higher after the U.S. data. The pan-European Eurotop 300 pared its earlier losses to stand virtually unchanged. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2205xdu
 

 

 Business Brief -- Federal-Mogul Corp.: On 14%  Decline  in Sales 

146 words
2 February 2001
The Wall Street Journal
J
B8
English
 (Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Federal-Mogul Corp. reported a fourth-quarter net loss of $337.7 million, or $4.80 a share, compared with profit of $60.2 million, or 79 cents a diluted share, a year earlier, after twice lowering analysts' expectations in January. Excluding charges for restructuring, asbestos-liability claims and a tax valuation allowance adjustment, the auto supplier posted a $69.2 million loss from continuing operations, or 99 cents a share, compared with a profit of $51 million, or 87 cents a share, a year earlier. In early January, Federal-Mogul lowered earnings estimates to 50 cents a share, then last week doubled that estimate in another warning. Sales fell 14% to $1.35 billion. The company cited weakness in the light-vehicle and heavy-duty truck markets. fell 81 cents, or 18%, to $3.74. 

Document j000000020010711dx22002sz
 

 

 Valeo 2000 core profit up, jobs to go. 

360 words
1 February 2001
07:54
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 PARIS, Feb 1 (Reuters) - Car parts supplier Valeo said on Thursday 2000 operating profit rose 18 percent to 573 million euros ($533 million), in line with expectations, and that it would cut jobs in response to a sharp downturn in the North American auto market. 

 That result gave the company an operating margin of 6.3 percent. After issuing a profit warning last September, Valeo said it expected to beat 1999's 6.3 percent margin. 

 A consensus forecast from the JCF Group, based on estimates supplied by 20 analysts, had called for operating profit to rise 17 percent to 570 million euros. 

 Net income, which benefitted from a 39 million euro capital gain linked to the company's climate control venture with Japan's Zexel, fell 35 percent to 563 million euros. 

 With 1999 net profits swollen by a 427 million euro exceptional gain, analysts had expected a decline to about 360 million euros. 

 JOB CUTS ON THE CARDS 

 Valeo, like some of its competitors, has been plagued by a downturn in the U.S. car market which prompted sharp production cutbacks at General Motors, Ford and DaimlerChrysler - all top Valeo clients - at the end of last year. 

 Valeo said it expected a slowdown in the European market, a drop in North American volumes and a falling Asian market in 2001. It said raw materials prices, to which it is highly sensitive, were expected to remain high in the first half. 

 "Valeo intends to resolutely pursue the adaptation of its production capacities with planned workforce reductions, principally in the United States," it said in a statement. 

 "The group is also speeding up its industrial redeployment in Europe and North America to strengthen the competitiveness of its industrial base," the company said. 

 Analysts are still waiting to see the fruits of hefty restructuring provisions Valeo booked in 1999 with the goal of cutting staff and streamlining global operations. 

 Recent measures the company has undertaken to confront the difficult market conditions include a wholesale reorganisation of its supplier base in the United States and a restructuring of its aftermarket, or replacement part, activities. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2107fdg
 

 

 UPDATE 2-JOT plunges 37 pct on result, outlook. 

 By Brett Young 
491 words
1 February 2001
15:00
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 HELSINKI, Feb 1 (Reuters ) - Shares in Finnish JOT Automation shed close to 40 percent of their value on Thursday after the firm posted a steep drop in 2000 profits and warned of slower growth and flat profitability in 2001. 

 At 1420 GMT shares in JOT Automation Group Oyj, which has suffered along with other suppliers to the now-cooling mobile phone industry, were off 37 percent at 1.55 euros ($1.46), underperforming a weaker Helsinki bourse. 

 The company, one of Helsinki's worst performers last year after surging over 400 percent in 1999, was Europe's top decliner and is 88 percent off its life-high of 13.11 euros touched a year ago. The share is trading at two-year lows. 

 JOT reported 2000 profit before extraordinary items falling 21 percent on 1999 to 13.4 million euros ($12.45 million) due to the slowdown hitting the mobile phone industry and rising project costs in the fourth quarter. 

 Sales rose 41 percent year-on-year to 140.1 million euros, but came in below its target of around 145 million. Its operating margin of 10 percent was also lower than its previously stated goal of over 11 percent. 

 "They should have given a profit warning," one Helsinki-based analyst said at the sidelines of the company's news conference. 

 Analysts said the share's further slide from already steep morning losses was likely due to negative analyst comments starting to filter through to clients. 

 Earnings per share for the firm, which makes automated assembly lines for the likes of Nokia and Ericsson, slipped to 0.06 euros from 0.07 euros a year ago. 

 The results underline the uncertain outlook for the cellphone industry as the market slows and the unfolding global economic slowdown hits profits. All major handset makers have cut their estimates for global cellphone growth this year. 

 JOT Chief Executive Teijo Fabritius told Reuters at the news conference the firm would not reach its 2001 sales growth target of 50 percent due to the cellphone industry slowdown, with sales seen up 25-35 percent instead. 

 He said the company's result in the first quarter would be weak, but did not comment on whether it would be in the red. Overall profitability in 2001 in terms of operating margin would be flat on 2000 levels, he said. 

 JOT also said on Thursday it would branch out from its traditional telecoms base into making components for both the photo-optics and the electronics industry. Break-even for both businesses would come in the first half of 2002, Fabritius said. 

 The 2000 results cap a miserable year for JOT. The company last year gave both profit and sales warnings, its planned takeover of smaller peer PMJ automec was scuttled, and CEO Jorma Terentjeff resigned in November. 

 JOT proposed a dividend of 0.01 euros per share. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2105wts
 

 

 U.S. Options-Clorox calls busy as stock up. 

417 words
1 February 2001
21:14
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 CHICAGO, Feb 1 (Reuters) - Call turnover was heavy in options of household products maker Clorox Co. as the stock gained ground on Thursday. 

 "Options activity indicates speculation of positive upcoming Clorox news," said Paul Foster, investment strategist and editor of 1010wallstreet.com. "They are buying calls and volatility has gone up." 

 Clorox had no comment on the heightened options activity. "As a matter of company policy, we don't comment on rumors or speculation," a Clorox spokeswoman said. 

 Shares of the Oakland, California-based Clorox were up $2.00 to $35.75 on the New York Stock Exchange at the close. 

 About 18,313 calls and 2,848 puts changed hands combined on Thursday across the four U.S. options exchanges, according to Track Data, dramatically up from average daily volume for the past month. 

 During January, average daily volume in Clorox calls and puts combined across all four U.S. options exchanges totaled about 685 contracts, according to Track Data. 

 An options trader on the Chicago Board Options Exchange, where the bulk of the options volume was traded, said he did not know the reason behind the busy call activity. 

 "We don't know the news," he said. 

 The CBOE trader pegged implied volatility for the March 40 calls at around 60 percent, up from about 44 percent on Wednesday, prompted by mostly call buying. 

 The March 40 calls on the CBOE were up $1.15 to $1.55 on CBOE turnover of about 6,910 contracts and open interest of 65 as of 2:55 p.m. CDT (2055 GMT). 

 A call gives its buyer the right but not the obligation to purchase the underlying stock at a predetermined strike price anytime before a specified expiration. Each call represents 100 shares. 

 On Wednesday, Clorox said net income fell 7.5 percent, before special charges, in the fiscal second quarter, on a decline in revenues and sales volumes. 

 The maker of Clorox Bleach, Glad plastic bags and Hidden Valley Ranch salad dressing said net income was $74 million, or 31 cents a share, before the charges, compared to $80 million, or 33 cents a share, a year ago. 

 Analysts on average forecast earnings of 30 cents a share, according to market research firm First Call/Thomson Financial, though the average estimate was 38 cents a share before the company issued a December profit warning. 

 At that time, the company said demand had been sluggish in the quarter. 

Document lba0000020010713dx2105uq9
 

 

 Israel stocks end narrowly mixed, Nice shares tumble. 

511 words
1 February 2001
16:26
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2001 Reuters Limited

 TEL AVIV, Feb 1 (Reuters) - Israeli stocks ended narrowly mixed in lacklustre trading on Thursday, as investors were largely sidelined ahead of next week's election for prime minister. 

 The blue-chip TA-25 index ended at 456.57, up 0.35 percent, although the broader TA-100 index ended 0.03 percent lower at 445.47 points. The technology Teltech index fell 0.77 percent. 

 While most stocks moved modestly, shares of Nice Systems dominated the market with a 12.3 percent drop to 74.10 shekels. 

 Nice, which was yanked from the blue-chip index as of Thursday because its market capitalisation fell below the $250 million threshhold, sank in late trading after it put to rest rumours circulating for weeks that it would merge or be bought. 

 The company said it was not in any merger or takeover talks. 

 "Nice went up in the morning on rumours it would cut a lot of jobs and reorganise, which is good for the company," said a trader at Gmul Sahar Securities. "But the minute they announced there were no merger talks, the stock crashed." 

 In December, Nice - a maker of multimedia digital recording systems - warned it would suffer a fourth-quarter loss, triggering a collapse in its share price. 

 The share began to recover on persistent market talk that Nice was a takeover target, with its competitor Comverse Technology Inc among those rumoured to be interested in buying the company. 

 After its profit warning, Nice's shares plunged 60 percent. But in mid-January, daily rumours of Comverse buying Nice pushed its shares more than 20 percent higher. 

 However, in recent days, talk that a deal was not imminent sent Nice's shares falling again. 

 "The share price had been strong recently because of takeover speculation, and if the company puts an end to that speculation the share price is likely to fall," Goldman Sachs analyst Elan Zivotofsky said. 

 Replacing Nice in the blue-chip index was another share that also lists on Nasdaq, Elbit Systems , whose shares ended 0.3 percent lower at 60.90 shekels. 

 Also beginning trade in the TA-25 on Thursday were shares of Blue Square Israel , which dropped 2.8 percent. 

 Meanwhile, shares of Bank Hapoalim slipped 0.9 percent as the bank announced it was considering raising money through a share offering on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Still, volume was a very thin 227.8 million shekels from 252.4 million shekels on Wednesday as few players were willing to take on big bets before Tuesday's election. 

 Prime Minister Ehud Barak, the market's choice, trails badly behind right-wing rival Ariel Sharon in public opinion polls. 

 Concerns among global investors about a Sharon victory have pressured the market lately since a number of leading brokerages have downgraded Israeli markets to underweight in recent weeks. 

 0#.TA100)-Tel Aviv 100 index constituents 

 -Tel Aviv 25 index constituents 

 -Tel Aviv 100 index 

 -Tel Aviv 25 index 

 -Tel Aviv technology index 

 ($1 = 4.14 shekels). 

Document lba0000020010713dx2105tsx
 

 

 IXOS Robust Oper Pft Shows Co Getting Back On Track 

 By Helen Sommerville 
Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES
796 words
1 February 2001
16:01
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 FRANKFURT -(Dow Jones)- Troubled Ixos Software AG (G.XOSY) looks as if it's back on track after surprising the market Thursday with a strong operating profit. 

 Once a star on Germany's technology segment on the Neuer Markt, the Munich-based company fell from grace last year after expansion difficulties triggered a profit warning. 

 IXOS is the world leading supplier of document management software which corporations use to file, store and retrieve internal and external documents. 

 It ran aground last year after overstretching itself through diversification, coupled with a sharp slump in license sales in its main market, Germany. This prompted the Nasdaq-listed software maker to launch a wide-sweeping overhaul in July. 

 Market participants have been scrutinizing its operating profit for signs of improvement from the restructuring program. 

 IXOS boosted its operating profit Thursday by slashing operating costs by 5%, indicating that its revamp plans are accelerating its turnaround, analysts said. 

 But it still needs to work on its net profit after missing analysts' targets. Also, analysts were disappointed that software sales growth lagged behind maintenance sales, though a cooperation with U.S. software giant Siebel Systems Inc. (SEBL) should help generate new business. 

 IXOS' second-quarter operating profit soared to EUR3.9 million. That's a sharp improvement from its year-earlier loss of EUR100,000. 

 "That's a very positive result," Oliver Wrangel of Merck Finck & Co. said. "It's well above our expectations of EUR800,000 and was achieved without losing sales." 

 As reported in early January, IXOS's second-quarter sales jumped 8.4% to EUR33.6 million from EUR31.0 million a year earlier. 

 "IXOS has delivered results faster than we had expected due to our sharper product focus and greater efficiencies," IXOS's Chief Executive Officer Robert Hoog said in a statement. "This way we have achieved our operational goals faster than planned." 

 At 1420 GMT, IXOS shares were down 3.3%, or 47 cents, at EUR13.65. The NEMAX 50, Frankfurt's benchmark technology index, was down 3.4% at 2710.16. 

 Thursday's results were partly factored in, analysts said as they had anticipated solid signs of a turnaround after its strong sales data early January. 

 IXOS's shares have risen 124% since the beginning of the year as investor confidence returns. But that's still way off its 52-week high of EUR104.20 and well below its EUR17.40 issue price. One of the early lights on the Neuer Markt, the software maker's share skyrocketed to EUR95 after it listed in October 1998. 

 The company launched a massive overhaul drive last year to get it back on track. 

 "The restructuring is going considerably better than expected," Marcus Schumacher of BHF Bank said. BHF Bank, which has a "hold" recommendation on the stock, plans to revise upward its earnings per share data on the basis of predicted reduced operating costs and higher margins. 

 In December, IXOS said it expects to cut EUR20 million in operating costs in fiscal 2001. Last year, IXOS shed it Leipzig unit IXOS Anwendungssoftware GmbH, as part of its plan to focus on its core business. Then it posted a post a one-off charge of EUR5.0 million due to restructuring costs. 

 However, IXOS's net profit disappointed analysts expectations Thursday. Tax provisions and currency effects dented the figure, which fell to EUR100,000 from EUR2.1 million a year ago. Earnings per share fell to EUR0.01, from EUR0.11 a year ago, and missed analysts' projections of EUR0.03. 

 Chief Financial Officer Peter Rau said in a statement that IXOS expects profits to grow in 2001 as a result of further cost-cutting measures and sales growth. 

 Second-quarter sales improved in all its regional markets in the U.S., Japan & Asia Pacific, and Europe. Also, sales in Germany rose 10% on the year, powered by a 22% rise in software sales to EUR4.2 million. 

 However, analysts were disappointed to see maintenance sales growing faster than software sales, a key measure of software maker's growth. 

 "It's not so great that growth comes from maintenance," Freiderike Herkommer of Hypo Vereinsbank in Munich said. "It needs to grow in license software sales," she added. 

 Software sales fell 1.6% to EUR18.7 million, while maintenance sales almost doubled to EUR6.4 million from EUR3.7 million a year ago. 

 Nonetheless, analysts welcomed IXOS' introduction of new products, especially Customer Relations Management applications from U.S. giant Siebel. "That will help them get a foothold in the U.S.," Wrangel said. 

 -By Helen Sommerville, Dow Jones Newswires; +49 69 29725 505; helen.sommerville@dowjones.com 

Document dji0000020010711dx2100ioq
 

 

 Compaq Has No Plans For Large-Scale Acquisitions - CEO 

396 words
1 February 2001
14:16
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 LONDON -(Dow Jones)- Plans for large-scale acquisitions aren't on the agenda for Michael Capellas, chairman and chief executive of Compaq Computer Corp. (CPQ), the world's largest personal-computer maker. 

 However, Compaq is planning the acquisition of companies whose technology will complement its own, Capellas told reporters in London Thursday. 

 "We want to take something that can be culturally integrated," he said. "We have identified eight critical areas where we want to increase our competencies, as well as geographical areas where we don't have presence for services." 

 Capellas said the difficult market conditions that Compaq expects in the first half of 2001 could ease in the second part of the year. 

 "We are hoping for a decisive position on taxation from the Bush administration," he said, adding that a more favorable fiscal policy would boost disposable income and improve confidence among consumers. 

 Like other computer manufacturers, Compaq issued a profit warning in December, as home-PC and small-business customers cut back on purchases. 

 Last month, the company reported a fourth quarter net loss of $672 million after a $1.8 billion charge for an Internet investment write-down. 

 Capellas added that he hopes for closer cooperation between the government and the industry, especially over the issues of Internet privacy and security. 

 Capellas also gave his support to Bluetooth, the technology that enables short-range wireless connections between computers, handheld devices and mobile telephones. 

 He reckons it will have a key role in the development of domestic-use local area networks, or LANs. 

 "It's a very cost-efficient and effective technology, but it's not the only technology for the whole wireless world," he said, pointing out that "wireless (communications) will take off at different speeds in different regions with different technologies." 

 "We have to understand the different markets and what will be beneficial for us will be our ability to pull it all together," he said. 

 However, Capellas conceded that the company will need partners to work on the convergence of mobile phones and pocket PCs. 

 "Some things are our core competencies, some aren't," he said, adding that Compaq is in discussions with potential partners of a global caliber. 

 Company Web site: http://www.compaq.com

 -By Elena Berton, Dow Jones Newswires; 44-20-7842-9267; elena.berton@dowjones.com 

Document dji0000020010711dx2100ijm
 

 

 UPDATE:Intershop Stock Slides As 2001 Targets Disappoint 

783 words
1 February 2001
08:01
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
(c) 2001 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


   (This story updates an article that ran at around 1322 GMT, adding
CFO comments from an analyst conference call)
   By Chris Reiter
   Of DOW JONES NEWSWIRES



(This story was originally published at 1806GMT Wednesday)



BERLIN -(Dow Jones)- Europe's top electronic commerce software company
Intershop Communications AG (ISHP) Wednesday disappointed with low
targets for 2001, causing investors to dump the stock yet again.



The company expects 2001 revenues of between EUR140 million and EUR160
million compared with analysts' expectations of EUR180 million to EUR200
million. Intershop anticipates first-quarter revenues to be flat, with
growth picking up in the second half, said Chief Financial Officer
Wilfried Beeck at an analyst conference call.



But concerns about Intershop's ability to succeed in the lucrative
U.S. market are weighing on sentiment although the company says it aims
to be profitable by the end of the year.



"The low end (of revenue forecasts) is only 13%-14% sales growth, and
that's pretty low for a company of this kind," said BNP Paribas' Alex
Ryshawy who rates Intershop at neutral. "It's a lot lower than what
competitors expect."



Based on the weak outlook and no new signs of the company turning
around its struggling U.S. operations, investors sold the shares, which
at 1738 GMT had fallen 20% to EUR9.65.



"At these levels, a lot of bad news is priced in, but we still see
risk on their turnaround plan," added Ryshawy.



Commenting on the 2001 targets, a London-based analyst with Schroder
Salomon Smith Barney, which rates the company a hold said: "The main
concern is the guidance for 2001. It's below what most people were
expecting."



Intershop was one of the new economy's leading lights until shocking
investors with a profit warning at the beginning of the year that saw
shares slide 70%. The warning revealed that its strong position in
Europe wasn't translating into success in the lucrative North American
market.



The company says it expects a net loss for 2001 of around the EUR39.3
million it lost last year but it expects to achieve profitability on a
quarterly basis by the end of the year.



Intershop reported 2000 revenues of EUR123 million, up from EUR46.3
million in 1999.



Among its direct competitors Art Technology Group Inc. (ARTG) of the
U.S. has painted a rosy picture for the coming year, saying customers
were stepping up spending in Web infrastructure, but Broadvision Inc.
(BVSN) expects flat revenues in the first quarter.



The low 2001 targets show that Intershop fears disappointing investors
again and lacks confidence in its ability to win market share in the
U.S. The problems in North America weaken the company's growth prospects
and make it a much less attractive investment, analysts said.



"The equity story flies out the window," said a London-based analyst
with a major European bank, adding that the attraction of the company
was its solid European base and potential for strong sales growth in the
U.S.



In response to the company's weak market presence in the U.S. and
elsewhere, Intershop cut 200 employees globally in January - mostly in
the accounting and marketing departments - and is instituting a hiring
freeze, said Chief Financial Officer Beeck. The company is relocating
some product-related and technical functions from the U.S. to Germany.



Intershop also plans to build up its sales presence in the U.S.
through stronger alliances with existing sales partners. It also wants
to expand its product range. It aims to have the U.S. account for 20% of
sales in 2001.



"We have actively taken these measures to bring our financial
performance back on track," said Beeck



"We are committed to achieving profitability on a quarterly basis by
the end of 2001. We expect that these initiatives, which we are now
implementing, will start to become fully effective in the second quarter
of this year," Beeck added.



But the company will have to show proof of a turnaround in the U.S.
before the international investment community is convinced.



"I see very few possibilities for them to succeed in the U.S. in the
near future," said Wassili Papas, a manager for international growth
funds with Union Investment in Frankfurt. His funds don't hold Intershop
stock.



Intershop is the leading provider of sell-side e-commerce software in
Europe. Its main Enfinity product is targeted at major corporations. It
also sells Intershop 4, which provides e-commerce hosting to Internet
service providers.



-By Chris Reiter, Dow Jones Newswires, 49 30 288 8410;
chris.reiter@dowjones.com
-0- 01/02/01 08-01G


Document dji0000020010711dx2100hya

Search Summary

 Text	((“profit*” same “warning*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”))) OR ((“profit*” same “fall*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“headwind” same “profit*”) (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”)))
 Date	02/01/2001 to 02/28/2001
 Source	All Sources
 Author	All Authors
 Company	All Companies
 Subject	Corporate/Industrial News
 Industry	All Industries
 Region	United States
 Language	English
 Results Found	131
 Timestamp	27 March 2018 10:40

 Page 2 of 2     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

