 
•	 American Greetings Shares Slide on  Profit Warning
•	  CALIFORNIA BRIEFLY: EARNINGS Vlasic's 2nd-Quarter Profit Down 10% 
•	  BUSINESS BRIEFS 
•	  M&S ousts managers, including head of U.S. units. 
•	  World Watch 
•	  FFBN Converts Wrap:Telecom Sector Leads Cvts Mkt 
•	 Ciba Posts 35% Plunge In '98  Profit , Issues  Profit Warning  For '99
•	  US CORP BONDS - Healthcare, energy lead junks lower. 
•	  FFBN Converts Wrap:Telecom Sector Leads Cvts Mkt 
•	  Ciampoli On Insiders:Gadzooks Execs Like Stk's Fit 
•	 Platinum Technology To  Cut  15% Of Work Force, Take Charge
•	 EATON'S SAYS 4TH QUARTER WILL SHOW GREATER LOSS -  
•	  Campbell Soup 2nd-Quarter Net Fell 27% On Weakness In Core Products 
•	  In New York: U.S. Tiger Funds Are Bloodied By `Momentum' 
•	  In New York: Tiger Management Endures a Mauling In Market Euphoria 
•	  Integrated Health says in buyout talks. 
•	 T. Eaton Down 5.7% Following Latest  Profit Warning  >T.ETN
•	  Robertson's Tiger Hedge Funds Are Bloodied By Market's Current 'Momentum' Approach 
•	  Service Corp. Delivers On Warning, Posts 55% Skid In 4th-Quarter Net 
•	  BEA Systems Up -2: Analysts Put 4Q Net At 4c/Share >BEAS 
•	 Business briefs; Houston & Texas
•	  FOCUS-Bass warns on tough brewing in UK. 
•	 Profit Warning  from Computer Distributor Tech Data Spooks Investors
•	  CALIFORNIA /  News and Insight on Business in the Golden State Lower '98 Earnings Expected From Mattel Toys: Company, which reports its...
•	  Rambus Stk -2: M.Stanley Cites Price, Co.'s Potential >RMBS 
•	  Rambus Shares Jump After Morgan Stanley Analyst Upgrades Rating 
•	  Mattel, As Expected, Posts Big Plunge In 4th-Quarter Earnings 
•	  Ha-Lo Stk -2: Some Analysts Say Shares Are Oversold >HMK 
•	  Hot Stocks: CREAF AXA NOC 
•	  Barron's Roundtable: Growth's Guises: Three of our panel's super stockpickers scour the globe for values 



 American Greetings Shares Slide on  Profit Warning 

 By James P. Miller 
Staff Reporter
548 words
25 February 1999
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
UK9A
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 American Greetings Corp. unveiled a "productivity initiative" that the company said will exact a heavy toll on near-term revenue and earnings. The news sent shares of the second-largest U.S. greeting-card concern down 32%. 

 In heavy trading on the New York Stock Exchange, American Greetings plunged $11.1875 to $23.875 after falling earlier to a new 52-week low of $23.25. 

 The strategy, the company said, is aimed at fattening future profits by allowing American Greetings to equal or better existing retail sales with less inventory. The plan is designed to let the company better exploit recent investments in technology that have shortened the time required to design, produce and ship a new generation of cards. Consumers' tastes in greeting cards are "changing faster than they have in the past," an American Greetings spokesman said. 

 But the first phase of the company's plan, which calls for a "sell-through" that will reduce permanently the number of American Greetings cards on retailer's shelves, will slice about $100 million from revenue for the fiscal year beginning Monday. 

 In essence, American Greetings will for a time replenish the existing cards it has on retailers' shelves at a less than full-replacement rate. Once that temporary process has lowered the retail card inventory to the company's new, reduced target level, officials expect sales will continue at their current pace, or even strengthen. As a result of the plan, the company noted, officials expect per-share earnings for fiscal 2000 will be in the range of $2 to $2.10, far below the First Call consensus estimate of $2.97 a share. 

 "The bet they're making is that they'll be able to improve the retail take-away" -- the rate at which cards move off a retailer's shelf, said McDonald & Co. Investments analyst Jeffrey S. Stein. Such an increase would make their retail customers happier, he said, and in the long run presumably increase the shelf space available for American Greetings cards. 

 "But it's a costly bet," he added, referring to the decline in the American Greetings shares, which have been valued for their consistency. "They've taken away a third of shareholder value." 

 American Greetings controls about one-third of the U.S. greeting-card market, second only to closely held Hallmark Cards Inc., which has an estimated 41% share. 

 The company said its earnings forecast for the fiscal year ending Sunday is unchanged at about $2.60 to $2.70 a share, roughly in line with the First Call consensus estimate of $2.65 a share. That figure doesn't include the pretax $14 million charge the company recently took to restructure its U.S. operations, nor does the projection for fiscal 2000 include an expected charge of as much $20 million to restructure international operations. 

 American Greetings said it expects earnings to rebound in fiscal year 2001, to equal or top fiscal 1999 results. 

 The company also announced that directors approved an additional repurchase plan of as much as five million shares of its Class A common stock, representing about 7% of its shares outstanding. About one million shares remain under an earlier buyback authorization. 

Document wsje000020010830dv2p00340




 Business; Financial Desk 
 CALIFORNIA BRIEFLY: EARNINGS Vlasic's 2nd-Quarter Profit Down 10% 

Bloomberg News
142 words
25 February 1999
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-2
English
 Copyright 1999 / The Times Mirror Company 

 Vlasic Foods International Inc. said profit declined 10% in its fiscal second quarter to $10.8 million, or 24 cents a share, and warned that its fiscal 1999 results will fall below estimates because of issues related to its Argentina-based meat-processing unit. Revenue at the maker of Vlasic pickles and Swanson frozen dinners fell 5% in the quarter. The quarterly results beat analyst estimates of 20 cents, but the warning for the full year pulled Vlasic shares down $2.88 to close at $14.44 on the NYSE. Vlasic said it won't proceed with plans to sell some assets of its Swift-Armour business in Argentina and may sell the entire unit. A new Argentine tax law will cut into 1999 earnings, it said. 

Document latm000020010828dv2p00di4




 Business 
 BUSINESS BRIEFS 

1,071 words
24 February 1999
San Antonio Express-News
SAEN
Metro
02E
English
(c) Copyright 1999 San Antonio Express-News. All Rights Reserved.

 Microsoft witness quizzed on inducements 

 Washington 

 A government attorney tried to chip away at the credibility of a Microsoft executive Tuesday, getting him to acknowledge the software giant offered rival Netscape Communications "several inducements" to stop competing in the Internet browser market. 

 The latest effort against Microsoft's defense came during further cross-examination of Dan Rosen, the company's general manager for new technology. At one point, Justice Department attorney David Boies accused Rosen of making up his answers. 

 Rosen is a key witness because he was present at a disputed June 21, 1995 meeting between Netscape and Microsoft officials. The government claims Microsoft offered to split the Internet browser market with Netscape, which dominated the market at the time. 

 Acer to discontinue in-store sales in U.S. 

 Taipei, Taiwan 

 In a bid to turn around three years of heavy losses, Acer Inc., Taiwan's largest computer maker, will stop selling its personal computers in U.S. stores, opting instead to sell them directly over the Internet, the company said Tuesday. 

 Acer's U.S. subsidiary, Acer America Corp., will focus more on sales to small-and medium-sized businesses, including schools and government agencies, the company said in a statement, noting its sales to business customers soared 63 percent last year. 

 Acer America has lost more than $200 million in the past decade. Its losses amounted to $71 million in 1997 and $50 million in 1998. 

 Blair outlines strategy to adopt the euro 

 London 

 Prime Minister Tony Blair announced a multimillion-dollar plan Tuesday to adapt computers and cash registers for the euro - the most significant signal yet of his government's willingness to abandon its sterling currency. 

 "We can no longer afford to pretend either that the euro does not exist or that Britain should not prepare actively for it," Blair told the House of Commons, to jeers from opposition Conservative Party legislators. 

 Blair declared the National Changeover Plan "is not a change of policy, it is a change of gear." 

 He didn't give a precise monetary figure, but said the plan involved tens of millions of pounds. 

 Liquor industry considers TV ad campaign 

 New York 

 The liquor industry is considering developing an advertising campaign that could include TV commercials to help whiskey, vodka, and other distilled drinks compete harder against beer and wine for drinkers. 

 The industry's trade group hired the advertising agency behind the milk-mustache campaign and ad campaigns promoting pork and wine to make proposals on how to proceed. 

 It is considering mounting an ad campaign on behalf of the entire industry as U.S. liquor consumption has begun to stabilize after years of steady decline. 

 Critics of liquor advertising said they feared the intent of such a campaign would be to make imbibing as routine as having a beer has become for many people. 

 "The danger is that liquor becomes viewed as just another liquid," said George Hacker, who monitors alcohol marketing for the consumer group Center for Science in the Public Interest. 

 Hospital giant posts disappointing earnings 

 New York 

 Columbia/HCA HealthCare continued to lose money in the fourth quarter, due partly to declining admissions and costs related to a long- running federal fraud investigation, the company said Tuesday. 

 Even if expenses related to the probe and other restructuring efforts are excluded, the company's profits from continuing operations missed Wall Street predictions badly. 

 Nonetheless, the beleaguered hospital chain's stock rose slightly Tuesday as investor hopes rose for an end to the 18-month investigation. 

 Columbia lost $42 million, or 6 cents a share in the quarter, well below the loss of $1.2 billion, or $1.92 per share, in the fourth quarter of 1997. 

 Profits from continuing operations, which are based on the company's regular businesses, were $27 million, or 4 cents per share. Analysts had expected profits from operations of 23 cents per share, according to survey by the research firm First Call. 

 Columbia shares rose 37.50 to $18.75 on the New York Stock Exchange. That's still half the price of its 52-week high. 

 Viacom courts kids, music fans over the Internet 

 New York 

 Viacom Inc. is expanding its popular MTV, VH1 and Nickelodeon Web sites into broader online "communities" for music fans and kids, following rival media giants that have rapidly boosted their Internet investments. 

 Viacom announced Tuesday it will create a new division to run its online businesses and may eventually spin it off into a separate company, hoping to cash in on the Internet's growing popularity among consumers and investors. 

 Viacom believes the success of MTV, VH1 and Nickelodeon on television will draw a wealth of advertisers to the sites and lure consumers into online sales of CDs, concert tickets and toys. 

 "We start with a big leg up. We start with the most powerful brands in the industry," said Sumner Redstone, Viacom's chairman and chief executive. 

 Barnes & Noble's stock falls after profit warning

 New York 

 Barnes & Noble Inc.'s stock fell nearly 13 percent Tuesday after the giant bookseller warned of lower-than-expected profits for its last fiscal year and slower earnings growth in the future. 

 The New York-based company, which released its forecast late Monday, expects to report earnings of 76 cents a share for the year ended in January, below the 80 cents that Wall Street analysts' had anticipated. 

 The estimates were based on its retail operations and money-losing Internet business, barnesandnoble.com. Excluded is a gain of 53 cents a share from German media conglomerate Bertelsmann AG's purchase of a 50 percent stake in barnesandnoble.com. 

 Shares in Barnes & Noble fell $4.5625 to $31.1875 in trading on the New York Stock Exchange. It is scheduled to report its earnings on or around March 11. 

 Applebee's to repurchase $100 million in stock 

 Overland Park, Kan. 

 Applebee's International Inc. said Tuesday it will repurchase $100 million in its stock, or about 3.7 million shares. The buyback represents about 12 percent of the company's 29.9 million shares outstanding. Companies use stock buybacks to increase earnings per share by decreasing the number of shares outstanding. 

 The operator of casual dining restaurants had 1997 revenues of $515.8 million. 

 Applebee's stock was down 12.50 cents to close Tuesday at $27.75 on the Nasdaq Stock Market. 

Document saen000020010829dv2o004l0




 M&S ousts managers, including head of U.S. units. 

 By Jane Merriman 
427 words
24 February 1999
15:54
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 LONDON (Reuters) - Britain's Marks and Spencer on Wednesday fired three directors and 28 divisional managers - including the chief of its U.S. operations - in a restructuring to try to put its faltering retail business back on track. 

 The job cuts, which come just a few weeks after new Chief Executive Peter Salsbury took charge, fuelled speculation that M&S may sell off its U.S. businesses - the Brooks Brothers clothing chain and Kings Supermarkets. 

 The shake-up - including the dismissal of U.S. chief Chris Littmoden, - marks Salsbury's first moves to revive M&S's performance after the warning that this year's profits would decline by almost half to about 650 million pounds ($1.04 billion). 

 Salsbury is reviewing all of M&S's businesses, which span retailing in Britain, North America, continental Europe and Asia. He told analysts last week that nothing was sacrosanct. 

 This spurred rumours that Brooks Brothers and Kings Supermarkets might be put up for sale as non-core businesses that have failed to shine. M&S bought Brooks Brothers, the classic menswear chain, in 1988 for $750 million. 

 Big changes had been expected at Britain's best-known retailer after the profit warning, which was caused by a sales slump in Britain. 

 The changes also follow a boardroom battle over the successor to Chairman Sir Richard Greenbury. Salsbury won that battle over Deputy Chairman Keith Oates, who left the company. 

 Analysts viewed the latest moves as a positive step, but expected more job cuts of anywhere between 500 to 1,000 at M&S's head office in London, which employs about 4,000 staff. 

 They also saw the sale of the U.S. division as a possibility, but said there was also speculation M&S might restructure its capital to return cash to investors. 

 Fund managers also welcomed the changes, but said M&S still needed to bring new executive blood into the business, which has traditionally promoted from within. 

 The three board directors taking early retirement on May 31 are Derek Hayes, in charge of continental Europe, Littmoden, who runs the North American business, and John Sacher, responsible for information technology and distribution. 

 The news boosted M&S shares, which gained 15-3/4 pence (25 cents) to 397 pence ($6.37), up more than 4 percent. They have now clawed back heavy losses triggered by the profit warning last month. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv2o03xo4




 International 
 World Watch 

 Compiled by Paul J. Deveney 
1,633 words
24 February 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
A11
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 EUROPE 

 Big German Bank 

 Sees Key Result 

 Fall After Merger 

 Bayerische Hypo- & Vereinsbank saw its bottom line more than double last year, but the numbers below the surface -- those that factor out one-time gains -- aren't as pretty. They reveal just how hard it's been for Germany's second largest bank to get its act together since its creation from the merger of two big Bavarian commercial banks nearly six months ago. HypoVereinsbank's results show that it posted an operating profit of 2.5 billion marks ($1.41 billion) for 1998 -- a figure that not only was 14% lower than a year earlier on a pro forma basis, but didn't even come close to the 3 billion  to 3.68 billion marks that analysts had anticipated. In addition, the megabank, which has seen its shares lose a quarter of their value since the start of this year, tallied up costs relating to its merger that were 50% higher than what the bank itself first predicted. 

 The most upsetting news of all may be that analysts now say that the promised synergies resulting from the merger -- which was part of the broader consolidation of the banking industry across Western Europe in the face of economic and monetary union -- could be a lot harder to achieve than expected. 

 Germany Renews Call for ECB Rate Cut

 Germany's determined finance minister, Oskar Lafontaine, urged the new European Central Bank to cut interest rates to boost corporate profits and, most important of all, create jobs. But the ECB, which was created as part of monetary union and is fairly new on the job, is equally determined to set rates without appearing to kowtow to any of the big players in the new 11-nation euro zone. So most analysts say the powerful finance minister's readdressing of the issue could make it even harder for the ECB to ease monetary policy, if indeed it ever intended to. The Social Democratic-led government's success on the jobs front is crucial because it regained power after a 16-year hiatus on a pledge to lower the nation's double-digit unemployment rate. 

 Britain Begins Preparing for the Euro 

 Britain's Labor government unveiled plans to mobilize the nation to get its computers and cash registers geared up for the possible introduction of the euro, Europe's new common currency. But though Prime Minister Tony Blair is leading the charge for preparations that could cost in the tens of millions of dollars, he repeatedly emphasized that no decision will be taken on whether the U.K. joins monetary union until after the next election, expected to occur in mid-2001. Nevertheless, each government department will have a minister in waiting to deal with the euro preparations and No. 10 Downing Street is ready to put in place an accelerated timetable if and when the country takes the leap. 

 VW Profit Soars, but Warning Is Issued 

 The big German auto maker Volkswagen reported a 65% surge in earnings last year to 2.24 billion marks on an 18% jump in sales. But the good news, which was released after the market closed in Frankfurt, came with a downside. The company, the biggest auto maker in Europe and one of the largest in the world, also issued a profit warning for the year ahead. Without going into the details of its latest earnings figures, VW said it may not be able to improve on those results in the current year because of what it called difficult global market conditions in the automotive industry. 

 BRIEFLY: 

 -- After leaving foreign investors out on a limb, Russia now says it will end the suspense and present creditors with the final terms of a deal to restructure billions of dollars in frozen treasury debt by early next week. 

 -- National Westminster Bank's earnings more than doubled last year to GBP 2.14 billion ($3.48 billion) amid strong gains  in most of the U.K. bank's core businesses. 

 -- French defense group Thomson-CSF is seeking approval to buy back 10% of its shares for as much as 895 million euros ($987.6 million). 

 -- Anglo-Norwegian shipbuilding concern Kvaerner unveiled a heavier-than-expected 1998 loss of 1.35 billion kroner ($171.8 million) and said its plan to turn itself around is underway. A year earlier, it posted a profit of 1.51 billion kroner. 

 -- Agora, the publisher of Poland's largest daily newspaper, will sell its shares at 36 zlotys ($9.31). That's at the top end of the price range for its initial public offering, set to begin  Thursday. 

 --- 

 ASIA/PACIFIC 

 Thai Banks Set to Lower Prime Rates 

 For the first time since 1969, the prime lending rates in Thailand's top commercial banks will fall below 10% next week. Leading the charge, Bangkok Bank, the nation's largest commercial bank, will cut its prime by three-quarters of a percentage point to 9.75%, while Thai Farmers Bank, the second largest, will lower its rate by half a percentage point to 9.5%. The cuts will help to speed up the restructuring of some 2.2 trillion baht ($58.4 billion) in problem loans weighing down the Southeast Asian nation's banking sector and boost liquidity for borrowers who are still trying to pay off their debt. But the market shrugged off the move; investors say they had expected the cuts and apparently don't believe lower lending rates will do that much to spur growth. 

 U.S. Tells China of Tougher WTO Policy 

 With the rules for entry into the World Trade Organization set to become even tougher, a team of U.S. trade negotiators are back in the Chinese capital to urge Beijing to make concessions in the next few months that would allow it to join the WTO. But China has already retreated from many of its market-opening reforms in the past two years -- moves undertaken after it glanced around the region and saw the economies of its more-open neighbors getting into serious trouble. With China's economic growth slowing and its unemployment rising, it's hard to find analysts who think the world's most populous country will make the kind of concessions necessary to satisfy Washington's WTO demands. 

 Fuji Bank Plans New Strategy on Notes 

 Japan's Fuji Bank hopes to begin a trend by bundling together short-term promissory notes and using them to back the sale of one trillion yen ($8.27 billion) in new securities. The strategy, if it catches on, would offer the nation's banks two advantages. First, it would remove the notes from the issuing bank's balance sheet, allowing it to reduce its total assets -- something Japanese banks are eager to do because their capital has been depleted by bad-loan write-offs. And second, it would provide a potentially cheap new form of financing, giving the banking industry an alternative to raising funds in the open money market where dealers have often demanded that Japanese banks pay a premium to reflect their bad-loan problems. 

 BRIEFLY: 

 -- Hurt by problems at home and abroad, Japanese electronics giant Matsushita Electric Industrial said group earnings plunged 49% to 49.4 billion yen for the three months ended Dec. 31 from a year earlier, and lowered its forecast for the full year ending March 31. 

 -- South Korea's Hyundai Motor reported a loss of 33.2 billion won ($27.3 million) for last year amid weaker sales at home. That compares with earnings of 46.5 billion won a year earlier. 

 -- Japan's Mitsubishi Trust & Banking said it would increase the amount of the problem loans it writes off for the year ending in March to 510 billion yen from its originally planned write-off of 330 billion yen. 

 --- 

 THE AMERICAS 

 Brazil's Currency Falls on Intervention 

 Brazil's currency fell against the dollar yesterday, but finished off its weakest point following the first official intervention by the central bank since allowing the real to float freely on Jan. 18. The central bank said it sold dollars through intermediary banks, but didn't specify at what level or how much it spent. Meanwhile, the federal government went ahead and blocked the transfer of 18 million reals ($9.2 million) in funding due the state of Rio Grande do Sul because of that state's failure to honor debt obligations. And  federal officials withheld the transfer of 23.5 million reals to  Minas Gerais -- the state that set off the battle between the states and the federal government on Jan. 6 by declaring a 90-day moratorium on its debt payments. 

 Argentine Firm to Compensate Clients 

 Argentine electricity distributor Empresa Distribuidora Sur says it will pay 100 pesos ($100) to each customer that lost power for 24 hours, and 3.75 pesos for each subsequent hour during a nine-day blackout that affected parts of the capital. The group said customers have the right to receive the money in cash, but it didn't say how it would be distributed. The compensation comes on top of fines of 66 million pesos levied so far against the utility for failing to reconnect power knocked out by a fire in an electrical substation. 

 BRIEFLY: 

 -- The engineering and construction firm SNC-Lavalin Group and BCE's Bell Canada unit signed an agreement under which SNC-Lavalin will acquire a 25% interest in Expertech Network Installation, a subsidiary of Bell Canada. Terms of the deal weren't disclosed. 

 -- Mexico's cash-strapped government plans to rein in official perks, including limiting cellular phone use to high-level officials, restricting use of official cars and placing tighter controls on expense accounts. 

Document j000000020010828dv2o004j1




 FFBN Converts Wrap:Telecom Sector Leads Cvts Mkt 

1,135 words
23 February 1999
13:39
Federal Filings Newswires
FF
English
(c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


ISSUER: FEDERAL FILINGS BUSINESS NEWS
SYMBOL: X.FFI
         WASHINGTON (FFBN) -- Monday's convertibles market was fairly
quiet, according to traders, despite the apparently high volume in the
equities market.  Nevertheless, technology companies were making strides
in today's positive market along with a few rogue negative movers.



         First, the bad news.  In the computer software sector, Telxon
Corp. (TLXN) had a rough Monday after a Wall Street Journal article
reported that the Securities and Exchange Commission launched a formal
investigation into Telxon's accounting practices and unusual trading in
the company's securities before its December release of an earnings
warning and restatement.
         In addition, Telxon announced that it has initiated a lawsuit
charging Symbol Technologies Inc. (SBL), its primary competitor, of
again engaging in a pattern of misconduct in which Symbol repeatedly
made false and misleading statements, constituting unfair competition
and violating federal and Ohio statutes.  In its lawsuit, Telxon asserts
that Symbol representatives knowingly made false and misleading
statements to Telxon's customers and prospects, including that Telxon is
bankrupt, that a takeover of Telxon by Symbol is imminent, implying that
investments in Telxon products would be lost, and that following such
takeover, Symbol would discontinue selling and servicing
Telxon's product lines.
         Traders bid the company's 7.5% notes due 2012 down 2.625 to 60
-- 70.75 bid/ask, a fall of 3.6%, as the company's 5.75% notes due 2003
closed at 65.625 -- 69.625 bid/ask, according to traders.  The common
stock fared worse, dropping 13/16-point to 8 9/16, down 8.7%.  Telxon's
7.5% notes and 5.75% notes are now 37.37 and 36.49 points above parity,
respectively.
         Monday's convertibles market was also full of talk today as
news got out that Exodus Communications Inc. (EXDS) intends to raise
$200 million of convertible subordinated bonds through a private
offering.   The $200 million does not including an over-allotment option
of up to $50 million.
         The offering will be made to qualified institutional buyers.
Exodus said that it intends to use the net proceeds of the offering
primarily to finance the purchase of assets or businesses to be used in
its system and network management business.
         On the positive side of the converts market today, Sepracor
Inc.'s (SEPR) securities traded actively despite observers' predictions
that the company will not turn a profit for years.  However, Sepracor's
chief financial officer told CNBC recently that the company expects to
license several new drugs.  "We've done five licensing deals on new
drugs with major drug companies.  Those represent $6 billion in annual
sales currently," said David Southwell in an interview with CNBC.  "We
have another seven drugs that we expect to license out in the coming
years and those have additional sales of approximately eight billion
[dollars]."
         Sepracor's 7% bonds due 2005 advanced today 4.1%, or 4.84375,
to 122 3/16 -- 122.50 bid/ask as the company's 6.25% notes due 2005
gained 2.9%, or 7.50, to 262.50 -- 263.50 bid/ask.  The common stock
outperformed both converts, climbing 4.8%, or 5 9/16 points, to 121
9/16.  The 7% bonds and 6.25% notes are 25.00 and 6.37 points above
parity, respectively.  Upon seeing the rise, one trader said, "We're
going to be watching these [securities] more closely."
         In the telecommunications sector, there was much ado about
Qualcomm Communications Inc. (QCOM) as word spread that the company and
Sweden's Telefon AB L.M. Ericsson are close to an agreement that would
end a long-running patent dispute, according to Dow Jones Newswires.  In
addition, the agreement could help resolve a looming international trade
conflict over the future of wireless communications, the article noted.
         Qualcomm's $2.875 preferreds closed the day at 55 -- 55 3/16
bid/ask, as the common stock soared 10%, or 6 1/2 points, to 71 3/8,
leaving the preferreds 5.99 points above parity.
         Another mover in the telecommunications sector today came from
ICG Communications Inc. (ICGX) after analysts with  PaineWebber boosted
their rating of the company from "attractive" to "buy."  ICG's $3.375
preferreds closed at 49 5/8 -- 50 5/8 bid/ask, while the common stock
shot up a remarkable 20.9%, or 3 7/16 points, to close the day at 19
7/8.  The preferreds are now 8.77 points above parity.
         Speaking of ratings, another telecommunications company getting
a rise in its securities thanks to positive ratings is Nextlink
Communications Inc. (NXLK), whose common stock rose after Lehman Brother
analysts started their rating of Nextlink at "buy."  Throughout the day,
the company's common stock rallied 11.4%, or 4 3/8 points, to close at
42 5/8.  As for the company's $3.25 preferreds, one source said he saw
them close at 55 7/8 -- 56 bid/ask.  The preferreds are now 7.13 points
above parity.
         In the computer chip sector, Atmel Corp.'s (ATML) common stock
soared 12.4%, or 1 7/8 points, to 17 after analysts with Soundview
Technology started their rating of Atmel at "buy."  According to
traders, Atmel's 3.25% notes due 2002 closed at 87 -- 88 bid/ask, as
the zero-coupon bonds due 2018 ended the day 32 -- 32.50 bid/ask.  The
3.25% and zero-coupon converts closed today at 39.61 and 8.48 points
above parity, respectively.
         Finally, among other losers in Monday's trading, Breed
Technologies Inc.'s (BDT) securities continued its downturn after
Standard & Poor's lowered its corporate credit and bank loan ratings on
Breed to B+ from BB-. In addition, S&P lowered its subordinated debt
rating on Breed to B- from B and its preferred stock rating on BTI
Capital Trust to CCC+ from B-.  Standard & Poor's cited the company's
ongoing liquidity problems.
         By the end of today's session, Breed's common stock slid 1/16
point to 3 3/4, a decline of 1.6% as the company's $3.25 preferreds
closed the day at 15 5/8 -- 16 5/8 bid/ask, according to one source.
The preferreds sealed the day 7.89 points above parity.
--  Marc A. Wojno
    Convertibles Reporter
    (202) 628-9792
    e-mail: marc.wojno@fedfil.com
NOTE:  This is a retransmission of an article originally published by
Federal Filings Business News at 18:19 on Feb. 22.



(END) FEDERAL FILINGS-DOW JONES NEWS 02-23-99



08:39


Document ff00000020010827dv2n00mt7




 Ciba Posts 35% Plunge In '98  Profit , Issues  Profit Warning  For '99 

646 words
23 February 1999
10:20
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 BASEL, Switzerland -(Dow Jones)- Ciba Specialty Chemicals Holding Inc. Tuesday reported a steeper-than-expected 35% tumble in 1998 earnings before one-time charges and warned that its 1999 results will also fall short if weakness in the chemical industry continues. 

 Ciba reported net profit of 369 million Swiss francs ($254.6 million), down sharply from 571 million francs in 1997 because of the difficult market environment. Market forecasts centered on a more modest 28% drop in net profit to 410 million francs before restructuring charges of 1.15 billion francs for the acquisition of Allied Colloids PLC of the United Kingdom, which was completed last year. 

 Sales, including the Allied Colloids operations, rose 8% to 8.42 billion francs, matching market projections. 

 Ciba said sales slowed significantly in the last two months of 1998, an industrywide trend that affected all divisions but was most severe in its colors unit's textiles and performance polymers businesses. 

 Lower prices and a higher Swiss franc pressured sales, Ciba said, adding that it expects this trend to continue in 1999 and cautioning that "both sales growth and margins will be hurt by the strength of the franc. 

 If the current trends continue, it "won't be possible" to maintain the current margin levels for earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, Ciba said, adding that it wouldn't rule out a decline of one percentage point or more in Ebitda in 1999. In 1998, Ciba's Ebitda margin rose to 16.1% from 15.7%. 

 Margins aren't the only figure that will suffer from a difficult market environment, according to Chief Financial Officer Michael Jacobi. If trends from the second half of 1998 continue, Ciba's net profit in 1999 won't match the 1998 level, Jacobi said. 

 However, the integration of Allied Colloids' activities and the strength of Ciba's other operations should "still allow for minimal sales growth in 1999," the company said. 

 The fourth quarter was weak for the whole industry, Jacobi said, and sluggish sales resulted from "weaker business in our customer industries," such as the textile industry. But Ciba is satisfied that it managed to keep its "operating profit stable in a difficult market environment," he said, adding "our development contrasts well compared to competitors." 

 Ciba has no plans for a merger or acquisitions, he said, adding that the company has a number of programs aimed at improving performance at its performance polymers and textile units. Last year, a planned merger with Swiss rival Clariant failed, but analysts expect the consolidation trend in the specialty chemicals industry to continue. 

 The company said it has initiated and accelerated restructuring programs that will generate savings of 150 million francs in 1999. In addition, Ciba will reduce capital expenditure by another 100 million francs this year after trimming capital spending last year by 12% to 459 million francs from 523 million francs in 1997. 

 Observers were stunned by Ciba's warning about 1999's prospects, with Denise Anderson, an analyst at Bank Sarasin in Zurich, commenting, "It was a surprise to see how negative their comments were for 1999." 

 Given that the prices of raw materials are decreasing, Anderson said she was surprised about the expected decline in margins. "There is something going on that isn't a very promising sign," she said. 

 Ciba's sales alert ran contrary to analysts' expectations that the industry would start to recover in the second half of 1999. Given that Asia's economies are stabilizing and economies in the U.S. and Western Europe are reasonably healthy, it appeared that "things are getting better but obviously they (Ciba) see something that contradicts that," Anderson said. 

 -By Anita Greil; 41 1 211 6588; agreil@ap.org 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020329dv2n01yvt




 US CORP BONDS - Healthcare, energy lead junks lower. 

555 words
22 February 1999
22:24
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Feb 22 (Reuters) - Prices for U.S. corporate high-yield bonds ended lower on Monday, traders said, noting pronounced weakness in energy and healthcare sector issues. 

 "Prices are off by about 1/4 to 1/2 depending on the sector; however, health and energy related issues have seen the heaviest losses," said one high-yield trader. 

 Health care company, Integrated Health Services'  9-1/2 percent issue suffered another two-point loss, trading at an 80 offer while hospital operator, Tenet Healthcare's  8.0 percent issue weakened to a 102 bid, 102-3/4 offer, traders said. 

 Earlier this month, Integrated Health said it was in talks with financial firms interested in a leveraged buyout after issuing a profit warning. 

 In an earlier statement, the Owings Mills, Maryland-based company said that a $15 million charge to align its operations with a new Medicare reimbursement system would cut into its fourth quarter and year earnings and that it expected to miss expectations. 

 Integrated Health said it expected operating earnings of $2.69-$2.79 per share for the year, compared with First Call consensus estimate of $3.02 per share. 

 Turning to the energy sector, Forcenergy Inc.  8-1/2 percent debt saw a 1-1/2 point loss to trade at a 36 bid, 38 offer, traders said. 

 Standard & Poor's lowered its corporate credit rating on Forcenergy Inc. to CCC-plus from B-plus and its subordinated debt rating to CCC-minus from B-minus last month. 

 S&P said the downgrade followed the withdrawal of two private equity investors from advanced-level discussions regarding a definitive agreement to purchase preferred stock in the company that would have provided substantial relief from near-term liquidity pressures. 

 S&P said continuing low prices for oil and gas, combined with a heavy debt load and capital expenditures well in excess of operating cash flow, have absorbed virtually all of Forcenergy's financial resources. 

 "Issuers that have liquidity and cash are the ones that are able to capitalise on these lower oil and gas prices," said one industry source. 

 "Firms that have any kind of bank amortization, or any kind of capital needs to go forward are the ones that are really going to be hurt in the short run ... there's just not a lot of capital helping out those kinds of credits right now,"he said. 

 Among other energy sector issues, Nuevo Energy  9-1/2 percent issue was quoted off one point to 92-3/4 bid, Vintage Petroleum newly-issued 9-3/4 percent notes fell one point as well to trade at a 97-3/4 bid, traders said. 

 In January, Moody's rated Vintage's new issue at B1 and said the ratings outlook was stable but would be reviewed once again upon the release of Vintage's reserve data and operating results. 

 Meanwhile, market players said for now the focus will remain on year-end reserve reports due out in the next few weeks. 

 In other markets, the Dow ended up 212 points at 9552 while the benchmark 30-year bond closed up 14/32 at 98-13/32 to yield 5.36 percent. 

 (( - Nancy Leinfuss, U.S. Corporate Bond Unit )). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv2m03z4h




 FFBN Converts Wrap:Telecom Sector Leads Cvts Mkt 

1,113 words
22 February 1999
23:19
Federal Filings Newswires
FF
English
(c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


ISSUER: FEDERAL FILINGS BUSINESS NEWS
SYMBOL: X.FFI
         WASHINGTON (FFBN) -- Monday's convertibles market was fairly
quiet, according to traders, despite the apparently high volume in the
equities market.  Nevertheless, technology companies were making strides
in today's positive market along with a few rogue negative movers.



         First, the bad news.  In the computer software sector, Telxon
Corp. (TLXN) had a rough Monday after a Wall Street Journal article
reported that the Securities and Exchange Commission launched a formal
investigation into Telxon's accounting practices and unusual trading in
the company's securities before its December release of an earnings
warning and restatement.
         In addition, Telxon announced that it has initiated a lawsuit
charging Symbol Technologies Inc. (SBL), its primary competitor, of
again engaging in a pattern of misconduct in which Symbol repeatedly
made false and misleading statements, constituting unfair competition
and violating federal and Ohio statutes.  In its lawsuit, Telxon asserts
that Symbol representatives knowingly made false and misleading
statements to Telxon's customers and prospects, including that Telxon is
bankrupt, that a takeover of Telxon by Symbol is imminent, implying that
investments in Telxon products would be lost, and that following such
takeover, Symbol would discontinue selling and servicing
Telxon's product lines.
         Traders bid the company's 7.5% notes due 2012 down 2.625 to 60
-- 70.75 bid/ask, a fall of 3.6%, as the company's 5.75% notes due 2003
closed at 65.625 -- 69.625 bid/ask, according to traders.  The common
stock fared worse, dropping 13/16-point to 8 9/16, down 8.7%.  Telxon's
7.5% notes and 5.75% notes are now 37.37 and 36.49 points above parity,
respectively.
         Monday's convertibles market was also full of talk today as
news got out that Exodus Communications Inc. (EXDS) intends to raise
$200 million of convertible subordinated bonds through a private
offering.   The $200 million does not including an over-allotment option
of up to $50 million.
         The offering will be made to qualified institutional buyers.
Exodus said that it intends to use the net proceeds of the offering
primarily to finance the purchase of assets or businesses to be used in
its system and network management business.
         On the positive side of the converts market today, Sepracor's
securities traded actively despite observers' predictions that the
company will not turn a profit for years.  However, Sepracor's chief
financial officer told CNBC recently that the company expects to license
several new drugs.  "We've done five licensing deals on new drugs with
major drug companies.  Those represent $6 billion in annual sales
currently," said David Southwell in an interview with CNBC.  "We have
another seven drugs that we expect to license out in the coming years
and those have additional sales of approximately eight billion
[dollars]."
         Sepracor's 7% bonds due 2005 advanced today 4.1%, or 4.84375,
to 122 3/16 -- 122.50 bid/ask as the company's 6.25% notes due 2005
gained 2.9%, or 7.50, to 262.50 -- 263.50 bid/ask.  The common stock
outperformed both converts, climbing 4.8%, or 5 9/16 points, to 121
9/16.  The 7% bonds and 6.25% notes are 25.00 and 6.37 points above
parity, respectively.  Upon seeing the rise, one trader said, "We're
going to be watching these [securities] more closely."
         In the telecommunications sector, there was much ado about
Qualcomm Communications Inc. (QCOM) as word spread that the company and
Sweden's Telefon AB L.M. Ericsson are close to an agreement that would
end a long-running patent dispute, according to Dow Jones Newswires.  In
addition, the agreement could help resolve a looming international trade
conflict over the future of wireless communications, the article noted.
         Qualcomm's $2.875 preferreds closed the day at 55 -- 55 3/16
bid/ask, as the common stock soared 10%, or 6 1/2 points, to 71 3/8,
leaving the preferreds 5.99 points above parity.
         Another mover in the telecommunications sector today came from
ICG Communications Inc. (ICGX) after analysts with  PaineWebber boosted
their rating of the company from "attractive" to "buy."  ICG's $3.375
preferreds closed at 49 5/8 -- 50 5/8 bid/ask, while the common stock
shot up a remarkable 20.9%, or 3 7/16 points, to close the day at 19
7/8.  The preferreds are now 8.77 points above parity.
         Speaking of ratings, another telecommunications company getting
a rise in its securities thanks to positive ratings is Nextlink
Communications Inc. (NXLK), whose common stock rose after Lehman Brother
analysts started their rating of Nextlink at "buy."  Throughout the day,
the company's common stock rallied 11.4%, or 4 3/8 points, to close at
42 5/8.  As for the company's $3.25 preferreds, one source said he saw
them close at 55 7/8 -- 56 bid/ask.  The preferreds are now 7.13 points
above parity.
         Finally, in the computer chip sector, Atmel Corp.'s (ATML)
common stock soared 12.4%, or 1 7/8 points, to 17 after analysts with
Soundview Technology started their rating of Atmel at "buy."  According
to traders, Atmel's 3.25% notes due 2002 closed at 87 -- 88 bid/ask, as
the zero-coupon bonds due 2018 ended the day 32 -- 32.50 bid/ask.  The
3.25% and zero-coupon converts sealed the day 39.61 and 8.48 points
above parity, respectively.
         Finally, among other losers in Monday's trading, Breed
Technologies Inc.'s (BDT) securities continued its downturn after
Standard & Poor's lowered its corporate credit and bank loan ratings on
Breed to B+ from BB-. In addition, S&P lowered its subordinated debt
rating on Breed to B- from B and its preferred stock rating on BTI
Capital Trust to CCC+ from B-.  Standard & Poor's cited the company's
ongoing liquidity problems.
         By the end of today's session, Breed's common stock slid 1/16
point to 3 3/4, a decline of 1.6% as the company's $3.25 preferreds
closed the day at 15 5/8 -- 16 5/8 bid/ask, according to one source.
The preferreds sealed the day 7.89 points above parity.
--  Marc A. Wojno
    Convertibles Reporter
    (202) 628-9792
    e-mail: marc.wojno@fedfil.com



(END) FEDERAL FILINGS-DOW JONES NEWS 02-22-99



18:19


Document ff00000020010827dv2m00mby




 Ciampoli On Insiders:Gadzooks Execs Like Stk's Fit 

1,355 words
22 February 1999
14:40
Federal Filings Newswires
FF
English
(c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


ISSUER: FEDERAL FILINGS BUSINESS NEWS
SYMBOL: X.FFI
GADZOOKS EXECS LIKE STOCK'S FIT



         WASHINGTON (FFBN) - Is now a good time for investors to
consider adding shares of Gadzooks Inc. (GADZ) to their spring stock
collection while the stock continues to trade close to 52-week lows of
$5.50?
         That's a question that takes on all the more significance for
bargain-hunting Wall Streeters given the fact that key executives at the
Dallas-based teen retailer have been scooping up shares of the company
over the past several months faster than the latest hot fashion for the
Dawson Creek crowd flies off the racks.
         As reported, Gadzooks chairman, CEO and president Gerald
Szczepanski purchased 100,000 shares of the company's common stock from
Jan. 11 through Jan. 12 at a price range of $7.33 to $7.38 per share,
raising his overall ownership in Gadzooks to 172,000 shares.    The CEO
bought his shares while they remained well off of 52-week highs of
$29.88.
         Last month's insider buying continues a fairly steady bout of
such activity seen at Gadzooks since the end of last summer.  From
August through December, a total of six insiders at the company picked
up a combined 161,200 Gadzooks shares at prices ranging from $6.93 to
$11.44 each.  Officials at Gadzooks could not be reached for comment on
the insider buying activity.
         Investors may be tempted to read the insider buying at Gadzooks
as a clear sign that the stock has nowhere to go but up.  After all,
Wall Streeters are likely to reason, corporate executives can have any
number of motivations behind parting with shares of their firms, but
they traditionally are motivated by only one thing when it comes to
buying shares: they expect to reap profits on their investments at some
point.
         Of course, it's always worth remembering that most insiders are
not very good at timing equity markets.  While corporate decision makers
may feel more comfortable in buying shares of their firms given their
institutional knowledge, they are no better than the average market
player at forecasting the often times merciless whims of financial
markets.
         Gadzooks is a mall-based specialty retailer of casual apparel
and related accessories for young men and women, primarily between the
ages of 13 and 19.  Company products include woven and knit tops, jeans,
shorts, junior dresses, swimwear and T-shirts.  In addition, Gadzooks
stores offer shoes, boots, sunglasses, watches and costume jewelry.
         Shares of Gadzooks have yet to fully recover from the battering
they took last summer after the company said its fiscal second quarter
profit would be less than half of what analysts had been expecting.  The
stock tumbled from a closing price of $18.75 on July 22, the day it
issued the warning to Wall Street, to $11.25 the following day.
         Since that time, investors haven't been given many reasons to
pick up shares of Gadzooks.  In November, the retailer reported a loss
of eight cents per share for its fiscal third quarter ended Oct. 31,
1998, compared with net income of 21 cents per share in the year-ago
period.   A First Call consensus analysts' estimate projected Gadzooks
incurring a net loss of two cents per share for its most recent third
quarter.  The company attributed results in the latest quarter to slow
sales growth, lower merchandise gross margins and higher store level and
corporate expenses as a percent of sales.   Adding to the misery:
Gadzooks disclosed that same-store sales fell 6.9% in its most recent
fiscal third quarter.
         More recently, the company earlier this month revealed more bad
news on the same-store sales front.  Gadzooks said that January
same-store sales fell 6.5%, while same-store sales for fiscal year 1998
were down 5.6%.  At the same time, the retailer said that total sales
for the four weeks ended Jan. 30 rose 13.3% to $11.4 million, from $10
million a year ago.   For the year, total sales rose 21.3% to $208.2
million, from $171.6 million a year ago.
         Meanwhile, the analyst crowd seems more than a bit uncertain as
to where Gadzooks is headed over the next few years.  A First Call
survey of nine analysts pegs the company earning a meager 12 cents per
share in 1999, but sees Gadzooks rebounding nicely the following year
and earning 47 cents per share in 2000.   And of the eight analysts
surveyed by Zacks Investment Research, not one was willing to go beyond
a "neutral" rating on the stock as of Feb. 13.
         While investors may find themselves tempted to try on shares of
Gadzooks while they remain at dirt cheap price levels, market players
should not forget the extremely fickle fashion whims of the teen set.
What may be the hot seller among the mall rats one month, often turns
out to be the fashion equivalent of the Model T the next.  Indeed, the
company notes in its most recent annual report filed at the Securities
and Exchange Commission that its failure to anticipate or react
appropriately to changes in styles or trends could lead to, among other
things, excess inventories and higher markdowns.
         Gadzooks also faces a crowded field of competitors vying for
all those teen dollars.  The company goes head-to-head with traditional
department stores, local specialty stores in certain markets and, to a
lesser extent, with mass merchandisers.  Gadzooks also competes with
such national specialty chains such as Gap Inc. (GPS) and certain
divisions of the Limited Inc. (LTD), as well as numerous other teen
retailers including Wet Seal Inc. (WTLSA), Buckle Inc. (BKE) and Hot
Topic Inc. (HOTT).
         The weakness seen in shares of Gadzooks raises the possibility
of the company being put into play as a potential acquisition target by
another retailer.  As widely reported, Claire's Stores Inc. (CLE) in
September of last year disclosed ownership of an 11.8% stake in Gadzooks
and expressed an interest in purchasing Gadzooks, although Claire's CEO
at the same time said that his company had no intention of launching a
hostile bid.
         Gadzooks said that it wasn't interested in pursuing a business
combination with Claire's or any other firm.  Gadzooks announced in
September that it had adopted a poison pill shareholder rights plan,
although the company said that the plan was being prepared before
Claire's  investment banker first made queries with the company.
         At a recent price of $7.69, shares of Gadzooks are trading
below the $8.63 to $12.00 price range Claire's paid for its 1,042,000
shares of the company purchased from late July through early September.
For its part, Claire's doesn't appear to have given up on the idea of
pursuing a combination with Gadzooks.  Rowland Schaefer, Claire's
chairman and CEO, recently told Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News that
"We would still like to talk to them because we feel Mr. Rags would be a
compliment to Gadzooks," Schaefer said.  The Mr. Rags apparel chain
offers stores that specialize in selling teen unisex clothing and
accessories.
         What would compel insiders at Gadzooks to buy shares of the
company, other than the fact that they continue to be priced at discount
levels?  For one, the company sees the burgeoning teen population as an
increasing source of purchasing power in the U.S.  In its annual report,
Gadzooks cites the U.S. Census Bureau as projecting the population of
approximately 25 million teenagers in the U.S. last year growing to
about 31 million by the year 2010.
         In addition, the retailer has managed to move the ball forward
on both the top-line and bottom line fronts.  Earnings have grown from
$1.94 million in 1995 to $8.3 million in 1998, while revenues have
advanced from $56.5 million in 1995 to $171.6 million last year.
         Also, a BancBoston Robertson Stephens report on Gadzooks issued



(MORE) FEDERAL FILINGS-DOW JONES NEWS 02-22-99



09:40


Document ff00000020010827dv2m00m65




 Platinum Technology To  Cut  15% Of Work Force, Take Charge 

349 words
22 February 1999
23:30
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Platinum Technology International Inc., which develops software tools used to manage networks of computers and database systems, Monday unveiled a cost-cutting plan that includes the elimination of 1,000 jobs, or 15% of its work force. 

 The company (PLAT) said it plans to take a first-quarter charge between $90 million and $100 million to account for the cost-cutting measures. The news comes about a month after Platinum said this year's results will come in below expectations. 

 Platinum Technology said it expects the cost cutting will yield about $90 million in annual savings and "significantly" increase operating margins. 

 Platinum Technology said it will consolidate product development into two business units, compared with five previously. Offices located near each other will be consolidated. 

 The company also plans to suspend its acquisition strategy and focus on existing business. The company is also streamlining its sales departments. 

 In issuing its profit warning last month, Platinum cited its consulting business, which had poor performance in Germany and the United Kingdom, less-than-anticipated demand for training services and flat growth in year 2000 services. Analysts have said expenses in the services unit were too high. Platinum executives expect the unit to gradually turn around this year. 

 Intel Corp. (INTC) last year purchased a stake in Oakbrook, Ill.-based Platinum as part of a broad technology and marketing alliance between the two companies. Platinum markets a product called ProVision, a package of tools for handling tasks such as measuring network performance, distributing software updates and resolving problems. Platinum also has a partnership with Microsoft Corp. 

 Since the Intel investment was announced, Platinum has struck deals to buy a few companies that make software tools used to customize business applications. Platinum is also a player in the effort to set standards for a technology called virtual-reality markup language, or VRML, which promises to transform chat rooms, shopping malls and other cyber settings into 3-D worlds. 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020329dv2m01yn3




general/also in this issue
EATON'S SAYS 4TH QUARTER WILL SHOW GREATER LOSS -  

Valerie Seckler  
506 words
16 February 1999
Women's Wear Daily
WWD
4
English
Copyright 1999 Fairchild Publications, Inc. All Rights Reserved  

NEW YORK -- T. Eaton Co., the troubled Canadian department  

store company, said Friday it expected to report ``significantly  

lower'' cash flow for the fourth quarter of 1998 and full year  

than it previously estimated.  

Although Eaton's did not provide projections, retail analysts in  

Canada estimated Eaton's net loss for the year ended Jan. 28,  

1999 would sink to $22.8 million to $29.5 million, at current  

exchange rates, compared with the net loss of $19.5 million  

Eaton's had forecast Dec. 10.  

The company plans to report its results April 8.  

In a statement, Eaton's blamed the downward revision on lower  

than expected sales during the holiday season, and heavier than  

expected promotions. Yearend inventory adjustments also  

depressed results at the chain of 64 stores, based in Toronto.  

``While we are disappointed with the impact of these factors on  

our fourth quarter and yearend performance, we remain confident  

in our strategic direction,'' stated Brent Ballantyne, Eaton's  

president and chief executive officer.  

``To achieve these goals, we have implemented a review of our  

store operations structure,'' Ballantyne added.  

Eaton's officials could not be reached for further comment  

Friday.  

According to Jamie Spring, retail analyst at Groom Capital, a  

Toronto brokerage, ``Eaton's is not far from being cash-flow  

negative for the fourth quarter. Their earlier forecast was for  

a slight comparable-store sales decline in the fourth quarter,  

and obviously, it was worse than expected.  

``I would expect some store closings this year,'' Spring  

projected. ``Do we need an Eaton's, a Hudson's Bay and a Sears  

in a lot of Canadian shopping centers? It does not appear so.''  

Spring said Eaton's has some stores producing sales of less than  

$90 per square foot, compared with Hudson's Bay units averaging  

$150 per square foot at Sears Canada units $200.  

Commenting on persistent rumors that some or all Eaton's real  

estate could change hands this year, David Brodie, analyst at  

CIBC Wood Gundy in Toronto, noted, ``It's a tough real estate  

deal to do when players want parcels of stores, but there is not  

a buyer for the entire business.  

``The longer it takes Eaton's to recover, the greater the  

probability we will see that type of deal,'' Brodie projected.  

``That said, as long as the vendors continue to ship Eaton's,  

they can carry on.''  

Eaton's stock gave up 0.47 to close at $3.69 Friday on the  

Toronto Stock Exchange.  

Friday's announcement marks Eaton's third profit warning since  

the company went public last June. The first, which came only  

three months after the stock made its debut on the Toronto Stock  

Exchange, cut the outlook for fiscal 1998 by more than 50  

percent from an earlier projection that it would earn $39  

million. The second came Dec. 10. At that time, many Canadian  

retailers were stepping up promotions to draw in customers.  

Document WWD0000020040515dv2g006o8




 Campbell Soup 2nd-Quarter Net Fell 27% On Weakness In Core Products 

435 words
16 February 1999
13:43
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Campbell Soup Co., hurt by weakness in its core condensed-soup business, Tuesday delivered on a profit warning it issued last month, reporting a 27% decline in earnings for its second quarter. 

 The food-products company, based in Camden, N.J., posted net income of $219 million, or 49 cents a share, for the period ended Jan. 31 compared with a profit of $300 million, or 65 cents a share on a fully diluted basis, in the year-earlier quarter. 

 The year-ago quarter included a charge of $11 million, or two cents a diluted share, for an accounting adjustment. 

 Per-share profit for the latest quarter matched the mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call, though that was lowered from an earlier forecast of 69 cents a share in the wake of the company's warning in January. 

 Sales slipped 8.9% to $1.8 billion. 

 Campbell Soup (CPB) said cost-saving initiatives in its supply chain reduced U.S. soup shipments and hurt its second quarter earnings. The company expects those initiatives to save $100 million a year and to provide funds for new product development. 

 Campbell said its second-quarter sales fell 4% before the impact of currency and divestitures. Sales of soups and sauces for the quarter fell 8% to $1.28 billion as a result of a drop in U.S. shipments of soup. 

 Biscuits and confectionery sales fell 5% to $407 million. Before currency changes and divestitures, biscuits and confectionery sales rose 7% driven by marketing investments and new products. 

 Campbell Soup said its sales in the away-from-home market rose 15% in the second quarter to $135 million. 

 On Jan. 12, Campbell Soup cautioned that that fiscal-year earnings will fall 18 to 23 cents a share below analysts' estimates  - with most of the damage coming in the second quarter - because of weakness in the condensed-soup business. The company blamed unusually warm winter weather and inefficiencies in the supply chain for weakness in the condensed-soup category, which represents two-third of Campbell's overall soup sales. 

 The company said at the time it  hopes to achieve annual savings of $100 million from the cost-cutting plan. Some of that savings will come this year, but the bulk will be realized in fiscal 2000. 

 In addition to condensed, instant soups and ready-to-serve soups, Campbell's line of products includes the Pepperidge Farm, Godiva and V8 brands. 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020329dv2g01wnm




Heard on the Street
 In New York: U.S. Tiger Funds Are Bloodied By `Momentum' 

 By Mitchell Pacelle 
Staff Reporter
867 words
15 February 1999
The Asian Wall Street Journal
AWSJ
11
English
(c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

 The "big mo" is mowing down Julian Robertson, one of the U.S.'s most prominent hedge-fund managers. 

 Mr. Robertson's Tiger Management was among a number of high-profile hedge funds battered in the autumn by a surprise rebound in the yen against the dollar, which helped to push Tiger's overall portfolio down 3.9% for the year. 

 Now, January's "momentum" market in U.S. stocks has left his $14 billion fund group down $670 million, or 4.8%, one month into what he hoped would be a rebound year. By comparison, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 4.2% in January. 

 "We were bitterly disappointed by this first month's results, since we have been working hard to get off to a good start in 1999," Mr. Robertson wrote investors early this month. The culprit: "We are in a momentum market, one which pays little attention to value," he said. 

 Join the crowd. "Value" investors -- those searching for cheap stocks whose true values other investors don't recognize -- have been pummeled amid the market's current euphoria. 

 The big money recently has been made by momentum investors, who care less about value and price than the likelihood that a hot stock will continue to rise. 

 Just look at how growth-stock indexes outpaced value indexes in January. The Russell 1000's growth subindex jumped 5.9%, compared with a 0.8% gain for the Russell 1000's value subindex. "This hasn't been an environment in which value means much," says Nola Kulig, a portfolio manager for Frank Russell & Co. 

 Of course, nobody is counting out Mr. Robertson. Tiger has bounced back quickly from several other dry spells. At midyear 1997, the S&P 500 was up 20.6% and Tiger had barely made a nickel. But the fund finished the year up more than 70% (56% after fees), trouncing the S&P 500's 33.4% gain. 

 And Tiger isn't the only global hedge fund to suffer in January. For instance, George Soros's $8.3 billion Quantum Fund sank 6.5% in the month, though it has regained about half of those losses so far in February. (Tiger is flat so far this month.) But Tiger lagged behind the average gain of 2% for hedge funds in January, according to Hennessee Hedge Fund Advisory Group. 

 Meanwhile, last year's poor performance had already taken a toll at Mr. Robertson's fund. Assets under management by Mr. Robertson fell to $14 billion, after peaking at more than $20 billion in the middle of 1998, stemming mostly from Tiger's falling investment values. Tiger's investors typically are loyal because of Mr. Robertson's solid long-term track record. 

 The monthly portfolio snapshot sent to Tiger investors last week reveals significant losses from the fund's "short" positions in U.S. stocks -- bets that the shares will decline in value. U.S. shorts dragged Tiger's asset values down 4.2% in January. Tiger neither identifies its shorts nor discusses them with investors, but it has been actively shorting technology stocks, says one person familiar with Tiger's strategy. 

 After Internet stocks briefly plunged several weeks ago, Tiger closed out its short position in one Internet stock by buying the shares, according to this person. Through a spokesman, Mr. Robertson declined to comment on Tiger's performance or investments. 

 In his letter, Mr. Robertson focused on several stock positions he classified as "value situations," starting with Tiger's largest holding, US Airways. After rising to a high of $64 on Jan. 8, US Airways fell 28.9% by Jan. 28, ending the month down 4.3% at $49.75, after missing fourth-quarter earnings estimates by two cents a share. Since then, it has fallen an additional 9.8% to $44.875. Tiger held 18.2 million shares as of Sept. 30. 

 Mr. Robertson's letter criticized analysts who "flashed the dread `profit-warning' sign and estimated down earnings for the year," and offered his own "light-at-the-end-of-the-tunnel" analysis. 

 Another "terrible laggard" cited by Mr. Robertson in recent months is Bowater, a newsprint manufacturer. Bowater shares fell 2.3% in January, and 5% more since then. Tiger owned 8.7 million shares as of Sept. 30. Mr. Robertson argued that a more "rational multiple" would vault the stock to about double its current price of $37.125. 

 "We are not smart enough to know when they will begin to perform, but we do know that they are value," Mr. Robertson concluded of US Airways and Bowater. "And we do know that value will win out eventually." 


---
                     Tiger's Top 10
The 10 largest stock holdings of Tiger Fund, as of Jan. 31, 1999--a
--Carnival Corp.
--Costco Cos.
--Federal-Mogul Corp.
--Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co.
--Royal Bank of Scotland (U.K.)
--SBC Communications
--Sealed Air Corp.
--Tricon Global Restaurants Inc.
--UPM Kymmene Oy (Finland)
--US Airways Group Inc.
a--Long, or buying, positions
  Source: Tiger letter to investors


Document awsj000020010825dv2f001jm




Heard On The Street
 In New York: Tiger Management Endures a Mauling In Market Euphoria 

 By Mitchell Pacelle 
Staff Reporter
781 words
12 February 1999
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
UK5B
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 The "Big Mo" is mowing down Julian Robertson, one of the most prominent hedge-fund managers in the U.S. 

 Mr. Robertson's Tiger Management was among a number of high-profile hedge funds battered by a surprise autumn rebound in the yen against the U.S. dollar, which helped push Tiger down 3.9% for 1998. 

 Now, January's so-called momentum market in U.S. stocks has left his $14 billion fund group down 4.8%, or $670 million, one month into what he hoped would be a rebound year. By comparison, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 4.2% in January. 

 "We were bitterly disappointed by this first month's results, since we have been working hard to get off to a good start in 1999," Mr. Robertson wrote to investors early this month. The culprit, he says: "We are in a momentum market, one which pays little attention to value." 

 Join the crowd. Value investors -- those searching for inexpensive stocks whose true values other investors are failing to recognize -- have been pummeled amid the market's current euphoria. The big money recently has been made by momentum investors, who care less about value and price than the likelihood that a hot stock will continue rising at an attractive pace. 

 Just look at how soundly growth-stock indices outpaced value indices in January. The Russell 1000 Growth index jumped 5.9%, compared with a gain of 0.8% for the Russell 1000 Value index. "This hasn't been an environment in which value means much," says Nola Kulig, a portfolio manager for Frank Russell & Co. 

 Of course, nobody is counting out Mr. Robertson. Tiger has bounced back quickly from several other dry spells. At midyear 1997, the S&P 500 was up 20.6% and Tiger had barely earned a nickel. But the fund finished the year up more than 70% (56% after fees), trouncing the S&P's 33.4% gain. 

 And Tiger isn't the only global hedge fund to suffer in January. For instance, George Soros's $8.3 billion Quantum Fund sank 6.5% for the month, though it has regained about half those losses in February. (Tiger is flat so far this month.) But Tiger has trailed the average gain of 2% for hedge funds in January, according to Hennessee Hedge Fund Advisory Group. 

 Meanwhile, last year's poor performance had already taken a toll at Mr. Robertson's fund. Assets under management by Mr. Robertson fell to $14 billion, after peaking at more than $20 billion in the middle of 1998, stemming mostly from Tiger's falling net asset values. Tiger's investors typically are loyal because of Mr. Robertson's solid long-term track record. 

 The monthly portfolio snapshot sent to Tiger investors last week reveals significant losses from the fund's short positions in U.S. stocks -- bets that the shares will decline in value. U.S. shorts dragged Tiger's value down 4.2% in January. Tiger neither identifies its shorts nor discusses them with investors, but it has been actively shorting technology stocks, says a person familiar with its strategy. 

 When Internet stocks briefly plunged several weeks ago, Tiger covered at least one short in that sector, according to this person. Through a spokesman, Mr. Robertson declined to comment on Tiger's performance or investments. 

 In his letter, Mr. Robertson focused on several stock positions he classified as "value situations," starting with Tiger's largest holding, USAirways. After rising to a high of $64 a share on Jan. 8, USAirways fell 28.9% by Jan. 28, ending the month down 4.3% at $49.75, after missing fourth-quarter earnings estimates by two cents a share. Since then, it has fallen 9% to $45.25. Tiger held 18.2 million shares as of Sept. 30. 

 Mr. Robertson's letter criticized analysts who "flashed the dread `profit-warning' sign and estimated down earnings for the year," and offered his own "light-at-the-end-of-the-tunnel" analysis. 

 Assuming a strong economy and another increase in airline fares in November, the company could earn more than $10 a share, and "we could be looking at close to a triple in this stock." The current consensus earnings estimate by analysts, however, is $6.01 a share. 

 "We are not smart enough to know when they will begin to perform, but we do know that they are value," Mr. Robertson concluded of USAirways and Bowater. "And we do know that value will win out eventually." 

Document wsje000020010830dv2c002h2




 Integrated Health says in buyout talks. 

231 words
12 February 1999
00:30
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 OWINGS MILLS, Md., Feb 11 (Reuters) - Health care company Integrated Health Services Inc. said Thursday it is in talks with financial firms interested in a leveraged buyout after it issued a profit warning earlier in the day. 

 The Owings Mills, Md.-based company also said it is considering an initial public offering for part or all of its RoTech unit, which is an Orlando, Fla.-based infusion and respiratory therapy and equipment company. Integrated Health said it is also looking at selling that division. 

 Company spokespersons were travelling and were not immediately available for comment, the company said. 

 The company said in an earlier statement that a $15 million charge to align its operations with a new Medicare reimbursement system would cut into its fourth quarter and year earnings and that it expected to miss expectations. 

 It said it sees fourth quarter earnings between $0.35-$0.45 per share excluding one-time items while analysts had expected earnings of $0.75 per share, according to First Call. 

 Integrated Health said it expects operating earnings of $2.69-$2.79 per share for the year, compared with a First Call consensus estimate of $3.02 per share. 

 It also said it had cut 1,000 rehabilitation services positions and that it sees further job cuts. 

 ((-New York Newsdesk, (212) 859-1700)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv2c04o00




 T. Eaton Down 5.7% Following Latest  Profit Warning  >T.ETN 

 By Mary Weil 
320 words
12 February 1999
17:13
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 TORONTO (Dow Jones)--If Federated Department Stores Inc. (FD) is waiting for T. Eaton Co.'s (T.ETN) shares to drop before making a bid for the troubled Canadian retailer, it may not have to wait long. 

 Earlier Friday, T. Eaton said it expects earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the fourth quarter and year ended in January to be "significantly" lower than it had forecast in December. At midday in Toronto, its shares are down 0.35, or 5.7%, at 5.85. 

 Federated has been rumored to be interested in buying at least some of T. Eaton's 64 department stores. Earlier this week, Federated announced plans to buy Fingerhut Cos. (FHT) for about $1.7 billion, but observers said the move doesn't preclude Federated from making a bid for T. Eaton. 

 Friday's announcement marks T. Eaton's third profit warning since the company went public in June 1998. The first, which came only three months after the stock debuted on the Toronto Stock Exchange, cut the outlook by more than 50%. 

 The second came on Dec. 10, before the end of holiday shopping, when many Canadian retailers resorted to discounting to draw in customers. 

 At that time, T. Eaton said it would post a fiscal 1999 loss of C$29 million or C$1.61 a share. Last June, in its final prospectus, the company forecast net income of C$58 million for fiscal 1999, increasing the amount by C$6 million from its preliminary prospectus. 

 In its Dec. 10 forecast, T. Eaton didn't break out a specific EBITDA figure. 


Analysts aren't surprised by the latest revision, pointing to
exceptionally high discounting during the Christmas sales season.
   -By Mary Weil; 416-943-7808; maryweil@dowjones.ca



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  02-12-99



12:13 PM


Document dj00000020010827dv2c04fmr




Heard on the Street
 Robertson's Tiger Hedge Funds Are Bloodied By Market's Current 'Momentum' Approach 

 By Mitchell Pacelle 
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
874 words
12 February 1999
The Wall Street Journal
J
C2
English
(Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

 The "big mo" is mowing down Julian Robertson, one of the nation's most prominent hedge-fund managers. 

 Mr. Robertson's Tiger Management was among a number of high-profile hedge funds battered in the fall by a surprise rebound in the yen against the dollar, which helped to push Tiger's overall portfolio down 3.9% for the year. 

 Now, January's "momentum" market in U.S. stocks has left his $14 billion fund group down $670 million, or 4.8%, one month into what he hoped would be a rebound year. By comparison, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 4.2% in January. 

 "We were bitterly disappointed by this first month's results, since we have been working hard to get off to a good start in 1999," Mr. Robertson wrote investors early this month. The culprit: "We are in a momentum market, one which pays little attention to value," he said. 

 Join the crowd. "Value" investors -- those searching for cheap stocks whose true values other investors don't recognize -- have been pummeled amid the market's current euphoria. The big money recently has been made by momentum investors, who care less about value and price than the likelihood that a hot stock will continue to rise. 

 Just look at how growth-stock indexes outpaced value indexes in January. The Russell 1000's growth subindex jumped 5.9%, compared with a 0.8% gain for the Russell 1000's value subindex. "This hasn't been an environment in which value means much," says Nola Kulig, a portfolio manager for Frank Russell & Co. 

 Of course, nobody is counting out Mr. Robertson. Tiger has bounced back quickly from several other dry spells. At midyear 1997, the S&P 500 was up 20.6% and Tiger had barely made a nickel. But the fund finished the year up more than 70% (56% after fees), trouncing the S&P 500's 33.4% gain. 

 And Tiger isn't the only global hedge fund to suffer in January. For instance, George Soros's $8.3 billion Quantum Fund sank 6.5% in the month, though it has regained about half of those losses in February to date. (Tiger is flat so far this month.) But Tiger lagged behind the average gain of 2% for hedge funds in January, according to Hennessee Hedge Fund Advisory Group. 

 Meanwhile, last year's poor performance had already taken a toll at Mr. Robertson's fund. Assets under management by Mr. Robertson fell to $14 billion, after peaking at more than $20 billion in the middle of 1998, stemming mostly from Tiger's falling investment values. Tiger's investors typically are loyal because of Mr. Robertson's solid long-term track record. 

 The monthly portfolio snapshot sent to Tiger investors last week reveals significant losses from the fund's "short" positions in U.S. stocks -- bets that the shares will decline in value. U.S. shorts dragged Tiger's asset values down 4.2% in January. Tiger neither identifies its shorts nor discusses them with investors, but it has been actively shorting technology stocks, says one person familiar with Tiger's strategy. 

 After Internet stocks briefly plunged several weeks ago, Tiger closed out its short position in one Internet stock by buying the shares, according to this person. Through a spokesman, Mr. Robertson declined to comment on Tiger's performance or investments. 

 In his letter, Mr. Robertson focused on several stock positions he classified as "value situations," starting with Tiger's largest holding, US Airways. After rising to a high of $64 on Jan. 8, US Airways fell 28.9% by Jan. 28, ending the month down 4.3% at $49.75, after missing fourth-quarter earnings estimates by two cents a share. Since then, it has fallen an additional 8.9% to $45.3125. Tiger held 18.2 million shares as of Sept. 30. 

 Mr. Robertson's letter criticized analysts who "flashed the dread `profit-warning' sign and estimated down earnings for the year," and offered his own "light-at-the-end-of-the-tunnel" analysis. 

 Another "terrible laggard" cited by Mr. Robertson in recent months is Bowater, a newsprint manufacturer. Bowater shares fell 2.3% in January, and 5% more since then. Tiger owned 8.7 million shares as of Sept. 30. Mr. Robertson argued that a more "rational multiple" would vault the stock to about double its current price of $37.125. 

 "We are not smart enough to know when they will begin to perform, but we do know that they are value," Mr. Robertson concluded of US Airways and Bowater. "And we do know that value will win out eventually." 


---
                     Tiger's Top 10
The 10 largest stock holdings of Tiger Fund, as of Jan. 31, 1999-a
-- Carnival Corp.
-- Costco Cos.
-- Federal-Mogul Corp.
-- Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co.
-- Royal Bank of Scotland (U.K.)
-- SBC Communications Inc.
-- Sealed Air Corp.
-- Tricon Global Restaurants Inc.
-- UPM Kymmene Oy (Finland)
-- US Airways Group Inc.
a-Long, or buying, positions.
  Source: Tiger letter to investors


Document j000000020010828dv2c0066p




 Service Corp. Delivers On Warning, Posts 55% Skid In 4th-Quarter Net 

381 words
9 February 1999
15:04
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Service Corp. International, the world's largest operator of cemeteries and funeral homes, made good on its late-January warning of a sharp shortfall in earnings Tuesday, reporting a 55% plunge in fourth-quarter net income. However, the results, which were hurt by declining death rates and other factors, were slightly better than Wall Street's diminished expectations. 

 The Houston-based company saw its profit drop to $59.2 million, or 23 cents a share on a diluted basis, from $91.9 million, or 36 cents a diluted share, a year earlier. 

 On Jan. 26, Service Corp. said it expected to report a decline in fourth-quarter earnings to 22 cents to 24 cents a diluted share. Before the warning, analysts surveyed by First Call had predicted per-share profit of around 42 cents a diluted share. The mean estimate was subsequently reduced to 22 cents a diluted share. 

 On the bright side, revenue in the latest quarter rose 16% to $773.5 million. 

 In its late-January profit warning, Service Corp. said reduced mortality rates, declining cemetery revenues, increased operating costs and overhead expenses, fewer acquisitions and poor results from certain foreign operations hurt its fourth-quarter results. However, it added that its prearranged funeral sales continue to grow and it expects to double such sales to about $1.3 billion by the end of 2003. 

 In Tuesday's financial report, Service Corp. (SRV) said comparable funeral revenue for the latest fourth quarter fell 2.7% from a year ago, generating $21 million less in revenue than expected. The company also noted a drop in the average price of funerals booked in the latest period, and said lower cemetery contracts were sold during 1998, resulting in a $19.5 million shortfall in revenue. 

 Service Corp. is facing several class-action lawsuits alleging violations of federal securities laws. The suits claim the company failed to disclose it wouldn't not meet analyst expectations for the fourth quarter and year ended Dec. 31, 1998. 

 Service Corp. said the allegations "do not provide a basis for recovery of damages" because it has made all required disclosures. 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020329dv2901vaj




 BEA Systems Up -2: Analysts Put 4Q Net At 4c/Share >BEAS 

468 words
9 February 1999
19:40
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Shares of BEA Systems Inc. (BEAS) rose 11% Tuesday as investors await the enterprise software firm's presentation at a major technology conference on Thursday. 

 Hank Riehl, an analyst at American Fronteer Financial Corp., said BEA wouldn't have signed up for Goldman Sachs & Co.'s Technology Investment Symposium unless it was prepared to introduce an upbeat business outlook. 

 "They will use that forum to explain where they stand in addressing problems and moving forward," Riehl said. 

 In November, BEA guided analysts toward lower earnings for the coming fiscal year because unclosed orders in the third quarter raised the possibility of flat revenues. Analysts said Tuesday that BEA's guidance in November was "extremely cautious." Conservative or not, it sent shares spiraling 50% lower after the profit warning. 

 A First Call Corp. survey of nine analysts expects BEA to earn 4 cents a share in the fourth quarter. BEA reported operating earnings of 7 cents a share on revenue of $51.6 million for the fourth quarter ended Jan. 31, 1998. BEA expects to report fourth-quarter earnings Feb. 23. 

 Credit Suisse First Boston Corp. analyst Wendell Laidley said that if management can't show progress on the awaited contracts in the fourth quarter, investors may stay "rattled." 

 Laidley questioned the "underlying demand" for the firm's core product, Tuxedo, which helps companies like Compaq Computer Corp. (CPQ) and Sun Microsystems Inc. (SUNW) manage sales with database software. 

 Even though Laidley has "reason to believe" BEA will close some big orders, he predicts the company will earn 3 cents a share in the fourth quarter. 

 Other analysts show more confidence. Ed Bierdeman of Dakin Securities expects BEA to have no trouble earning 4 cents a share in the fourth quarter. 

 SoundView Technology Group analyst Kris Tuttle, who upgraded BEA to a strong buy from buy in January, reported hearing of strong demand in Europe and elsewhere for BEA's new products. 

 American Fronteer's Riehl agreed, adding that demand for Tuxedo is "absolutely healthy," in part because middleware, which enables communications across platforms, is eclipsing other enterprise software. 

 Riehl expects the company to earn at least 30 cents per share in fiscal 2000, well ahead of the First Call estimate of 24 cents. 

 A BEA official declined to comment, citing the company's quiet period before its earnings announcement. 


Shares of BEA recently traded up 1 11/16, or 11%, to 16 3/4 on volume
of 1.4 million, compared with average daily volume of 1.3 million. The
stock has traded between 8 11/16 and 29 5/8 over the last 52 weeks.
   - Alec Appelbaum, 201-938-5172



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  02-09-99



02:40 PM


Document dj00000020010826dv2901j5z




Business briefs
BUSINESS
Business briefs; Houston & Texas

Staff, Bloomberg News, Reuters, Associated Press   
520 words
5 February 1999
Houston Chronicle
HOU
3 STAR
2
English
Copyright 1999. Hearst Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Distributed by NewsBank Inc.   

Enron, CapRock to build fiber network

CapRock Communications Corp. and Enron Communications will jointly build a 1,000-mile, $100 million fiber-optic network connecting 10 cities in Texas.

CapRock, a Dallas-based provider of telecommunications services to businesses, said Thursday it signed an agreement to build the network with Enron Communications, a unit of Enron Corp. of Houston.

The project, whose completion is expected in the fall, will connect Amarillo, Lubbock, Dallas, Fort Worth, Waco, Bryan, Austin, San Marcos, San Antonio and Houston.

Enron is in the process of building a fiber-optic network throughout the United States known as the Enron Intelligent Network. As part of that process, it is making agreements with Internet service providers and telecommunications carriers.

...

Colorado company buys Hill Graphics

Hill Graphics, a Houston printing company that operates commercially as Champagne Fine Printing, has been purchased by a Colorado-based consolidator in the printing business.

Mail-Well bought Hill for an undisclosed sum.

Hill employs 155 workers and had sales of $20.5 million last year. All employees, including managers, will keep their positions with the company, said Hill Graphics President Gary Lyon.

The printer has been in business in Houston for 23 years.

...

Randalls reports 8.2% rise in sales

Randalls Food Markets reported sales increased 8.2 percent, from $579.9 million to $627.6 million, during the second quarter of fiscal 1999.

Sales at stores open more than a year increased 7.2 percent. Net income increased 43.8 percent to $11.3 million during the quarter, which ended Jan. 9. Part of the increase is attributable to better expense control, as well as the increase in net sales, the company said.

Randalls Food Markets is a Houston-based chain of 117 supermarkets.

...

Weingarten buys Champions Village

Weingarten Realty Investors of Houston purchased the Champions Village Shopping Center, located at FM 1960 and Champions Forest Drive in north Harris County, for $36 million.

The center was purchased from Eastrich No. 176 Corp., a pension fund managed by Aldrich, Eastman & Waltch.

Champions Village is a 407,000-square-foot center on 32 acres. The center is anchored by Randall's Flagship, Stein Mart, Palais Royal, Walgreens, Sun & Ski Sports, Barnes & Noble and Bally Total Fitness.

...

American Homestar issues profit warning

American Homestar Corp., one of the nation's largest makers and marketers of manufactured housing, warned Thursday that its third-quarter earnings would be substantially below the estimates of financial analysts and the 25 cents per share it earned a year ago. The Houston-based company's stock dropped 1 5/16 to 10 1/8.

American Homestar's third-quarter results will be released the week of March 22. The company had a record second quarter, but it said that retail sales have been lower than expected for the third quarter, which ends Feb. 28. This sales decline affected its manufacturing operations, and to a lesser extent, its financial services business.

Bloomberg News, Reuters, the Associated Press and Chronicle staff contribute to this report.

Document HOU0000020120817dv2500p51




 FOCUS-Bass warns on tough brewing in UK. 

 By David Jones 
496 words
4 February 1999
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 1999 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, Feb 4 (Reuters) - Britain's Bass Plc on Thursday said trading was improving in its hotel and leisure retailing businesses, but warned it was facing significant pressure in a British brewing business beset by price discounting. 

 Group Chairman Ian Prosser said trading had improved in its Holiday Inn, Crowne Plaza and Inter-Continental hotels and also in its leisure retail outlets which include managed pubs, bars such as O'Neill's and Harvester and Browns restaurants. 

 But Prosser told shareholders at its annual general meeting that the British beer market remains tough with overall market volumes down four percent in the last four months and heightened price discounting particularly in trade to retail outlets. 

 "In the first sixteen weeks of the year the hotels and leisure retail divisions have again improved but we have experienced significant pressure in brewing in the face of the economic challenges in the UK," he told shareholders. 

 His comments were based on the 16-week period from the start of Bass's new financial year on October 1, 1998 for brewing and retail and the first 13 weeks for its hotels and resorts side. 

 Bass' problems in the beer market unsettled the shares which lost early gains and failed to take part in the rally which followed the cut in British interest rates. They were trading up 1/2 pence at 856-1/2 pence by 1445 GMT. 

 Bass, which brews almost a quarter of Britain's beer with brands such as Carling, Tennent's, Caffrey's and Bass ale, said it had not been prepared to sacrifice profit margins in the ultra competitive off-trade to retail outlets, and its four-month volumes had slipped 13.2 percent. 

 Overall, it said that its top selling brands such as Carling, a brand which sells almost one in every 10 pints sold in Britain, saw volumes up four percent. 

 In Bass's hotel division, Holiday Inn North America saw its revenue per available room grow by 6.7 percent which Bass said was well ahead of the market. It added that trading in Europe remained strong although Britain had been relatively weaker. 

 Inter-Continental hotels, which Bass bought for 1.8 billion pound ($2.94 billion) in March last year, saw revenue up 5.5 percent driven almost entirely by room rate increases. 

 In its pub and restaurant businesses, food sales grew by 11 percent and drinks sales by one percent. Adjusting for the disposal of some managed pubs, turnover was up four percent. 

 Analysts said the trading update was generally as expected but some may have been surprised by the warning on the brewing side. Merrill Lynch said it would probably hold its current year pre-tax profit forecast at 670 million pounds after the group made underlying pre-tax profits of 661 million pounds in the year ending September 30, 1998. 

 ($1=.6124 Pound). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 1999. 

Document lba0000020010908dv24055nq


 Profit Warning  from Computer Distributor Tech Data Spooks Investors 

 Ameet Sachdev 
1,019 words
3 February 1999
KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: St. Petersburg (Fla.) Times
KRTBN
English
Copyright (C) 1999 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM)

 CLEARWATER, Fla.--Tech Data Corp. said intense price-cutting among computer distributors will reduce its earnings this year by as much as 18 percent, sending its stock into a tailspin Tuesday. 

 Shares of the Clearwater distributor of technology products tumbled 36 percent, or $11.50, to close at $20.31 1/4, its biggest one-day decline. The stock had dipped to a 52-week low of $19.75 during the day. With volume of more than 13.2 million shares, Tech Data was the seventh-most-active stock on Nasdaq. 

 The drop wiped out more than $587 million of Tech Data's market capitalization, a monster bite out of one of the Tampa Bay area's largest publicly traded companies. Tech Data is the world's second-largest computer distributor with sales of about $11.5 billion. 

 "Right now there is a rush to the exits among our investors," said Steve Raymund, chairman and chief executive, who suffered a paper loss of more than $40 million on his holdings of nearly 3.5 million shares, which includes stock options. 

 Investors already were on edge after two of Tech Data's rivals recently reported that their fourth-quarter profits would fall short of Wall Street estimates. The computer distribution industry is being squeezed by falling prices and an effort by some manufacturers to bypass distributors and sell personal computers directly to business customers. In addition, economic distress in Asian and Latin American markets has compounded risks. 

 Investors' worst fears were realized after Tech Data warned that its net income for fiscal year 2000, which ends Jan. 31, will be 40 cents to 50 cents a share lower than Wall Street forecasts. The company estimates net income of $126 million to $132 million, or $2.30 to $2.40 a diluted share. Analysts were expecting a profit of $2.80 a share, according to First Call Corp. 

 Remarkably, Tech Data predicts total revenues will grow nearly 40 percent to about $16 billion in fiscal 2000. But the company will make a smaller profit on sales, especially PC orders, because it is cutting prices to protect its market share. 

 To large distributors like Tech Data, "a small shift in pricing can cause a major hiccup in earnings," said Bob Anastasi, an analyst at Robinson-Humphrey Co. in Atlanta. 

 Distributors have been struggling with lower prices for some time. Last year alone, prices of PCs sold to businesses dropped $200 to $300, or about 15 percent, said Kevin Knox, senior research analyst at the Gartner Group in Stamford, Conn. PC profits shrank further as some distributors slashed prices to gain market share. 

 For most of last year, Tech Data chose not to match what it called the "irrational" pricing of competitors. But that strategy backfired when the company's U.S. sales in the third quarter ended Oct. 31 increased only 7 percent from the same period the year before -- about half the industry's growth rate. 

 Tech Data responded by cutting prices in December. As a result, U.S. sales grew about 12 percent in the fiscal 1999 fourth quarter ended Jan. 31. 

 Still, fourth-quarter earnings will fall short of Wall Street estimates of 69 cents a share. Tech Data plans to officially report its fourth-quarter results March 30. But the company gave an early warning that earnings for the period will be $33 million to $35 million, or 61 cents to 64 cents a diluted share, up from $26.1 million, or 53 cents a share, a year ago. Sales exceeded $3.8 billion, up 80 percent from $2.1 billion a year earlier. 

 "We were surprised at the voracious price-cutting among competitors who could least afford it," Raymund said. "Irrationality has no limits apparently." He added that some distributors advertised Compaq computers with no price markup, which is unprecedented. 

 For the 1999 fiscal year ended Jan. 31, Tech Data estimates net income of $125.5 million to $127.5 million, or $2.40 to $2.43 a diluted share, including a onetime gain of $7.6 million on the sale of its interest in Macrotron AG of Munich, Germany. In fiscal 1998, the company earned $89.5 million, or $1.92 a share. 

 Price-cutting is beginning to spread to Europe, an ominous sign for Tech Data. The company bought Europe's largest distributor, Computer 2000 AG, in August, and international sales now account for half of its total revenues. 

 One piece of the international business especially vulnerable is Latin America. Brazil's economic crisis has clouded the outlook for the entire region. While the impact on Tech Data is minimal -- Latin America accounts for about 7 percent of its sales -- the timing is no doubt troublesome. 

 Tech Data's disappointing performance follows earlier warnings by Ingram Micro Inc., the world's No. 1 distributor, and Merisel Inc., who both blamed increasing competition for their profit shortfalls. After Tech Data's announcement, Ingram's shares hit a new 52-week low of $26.121/2 Tuesday before closing at $27, down $3.371/2. 

 Distributors also are being hurt by the changing buying habits of their customers, computer dealers that sell to businesses. These resellers are buying more directly from PC makers like Dell Computer. Other big manufacturers, such as Compaq Computer Corp., are now trying to mimic Dell, which could spell trouble for Tech Data. PC sales represent one-quarter of its total revenues. 

 "Going forward, we have to continue to take costs out of the system by increasing automation and depending more on electronic commerce," Raymund said. He does not anticipate layoffs among the company's worldwide work force of 7,800. Tech Data employs 2,700 people in Clearwater. 

 One consequence of the price war may be that smaller distributors go out of business or sell out because they will not be able to compete with Tech Data on costs and technological advances, analysts said. Raymund agrees that more consolidation may be coming: "We'll grind it out until competitors cry uncle." 

Document krtbn00020010828dv23007wy




 Business; Financial Desk 
 CALIFORNIA /  News and Insight on Business in the Golden State Lower '98 Earnings Expected From Mattel Toys: Company, which reports its annual results today, may be headed for a restructuring and layoffs, analysts say. 

From Times Wire Services
614 words
2 February 1999
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-2
English
 Copyright 1999 / The Times Mirror Company 

 Mattel Inc., hurt last year by a drop in reorders from retailers, is expected to report today flat revenue and lower earnings for 1998, and analysts said the shortfall could lead to a restructuring and layoffs in the next few months. 

 In December, the world's leading toy maker warned that its 1998 earnings would not meet analysts' expectations. The El Segundo-based company said it expected earnings of $1.20 a share, whereas the average estimate of analysts polled by First Call Corp. was $1.78 a share. It was the company's fourth consecutive quarterly profit warning. 

 Analysts expect Mattel to report today fourth-quarter earnings of 21 cents a share, a 67% decline from the 64 cents earned for the period in 1997. 

 "Since there's been a revision in sales expectations, they're looking hard at selling and administrative expenses as an area for cost cutting," said Margaret Whitfield, analyst with Tucker, Anthony & R. L. Day Inc. "They have hinted there would be a restructuring charge, but that charge is expected to be closer to the timing of a charge related to Mattel's planned merger with the Learning Co." 

 Mattel said in December that it would buy Learning Co., which makes educational software, for $3.8 billion. Mattel has said the deal, expected to close in March or April, should add to 1999 earnings. 

 On Monday, Mattel shares rose $2.38 to close at $25.06 on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 "It may be up because Mattel is getting its bad news out of the way. It's good that 1998 is over," said Martin Romm, analyst with Credit Suisse First Boston. 

 But Mattel may have underestimated its earnings potential for 1999 when it warned in December that holiday sales would be less than expected, Sean McGowan, an analyst with Gerard Klauer Mattison, told Bloomberg News. McGowan, who's rated the shares "hold" since November, raised his opinion to "buy" on expectations that profit and sales growth will resume. 

 At the time of the warning, the company also said it expected 1999 earnings of $1.50 a share and revenue growth of 7%. McGowan, who said he expects sales to rise 8%, hasn't raised his estimate above Mattel's $1.50 forecast. 

 Mattel has been hurt by cuts in orders by traditional toy retailers, particularly by Toys R Us, as more children and their parents buy toys at stores such as Wal-Mart instead. 

 A spokesman declined further comment Monday. A source close to Mattel told Reuters, however, that a restructuring charge could occur around the first quarter tied to a charge related to the Learning Co. transaction. 

 Jill Barad, Mattel chief executive, told analysts in December that Mattel was looking hard at costs. 

 "We currently have a cost structure in place that was originally designed to support a much higher level of sales volume next year. Over the next few months, we'll be evaluating this structure for rationalization opportunities that will bring our overhead down to more appropriate levels," she said. Whitfield said Mattel's sales and administrative costs total 18% of sales. "They would like to see it closer to 14% to 15% of sales," she said. 

 Analysts noted that the global economic slowdown, particularly in Latin America, has put a dent in American toy makers' sales. Latin America alone accounts for as much as 10% of U.S. toy makers' sales. 

Document latm000020010828dv22007ty




 Rambus Stk -2: M.Stanley Cites Price, Co.'s Potential >RMBS 

200 words
2 February 1999
19:20
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Rambus Inc.'s (RMBS) shares rose more nearly 7% after Morgan Stanley Dean Witter analyst Mark Edelstone quickly reversed course and upgraded his rating on the shares. 

 Edelstone raised his opinion on the Rambus' shares to outperform from neutral, citing recent weakness in the company's stock and the company's long-term potential. 

 Just three weeks ago, on January 12, he cut his rating to neutral from outperform because he thought the shares were overvalued. Two days later, the company cautioned investors that earnings during the next two or three quarters would be flat with the fiscal first quarter ended Dec. 31, when it earned 8 cents a share. 

 The downgrade and profit warning spurred a sell-off in the company's shares, which had closed at 109 1/2 on Jan. 11 but ended Monday's session at 74 7/8. 

 The stock recently changed hands at 80 1/4, up 5 1/8, or 6.8%, on Nasdaq volume of 1.5 million shares, compared with a daily average of 867,200. 

 (MORE) DOW JONES NEWS  02-02-99 

 02:20 PM 

Document dj00000020010826dv22018u0




 Rambus Shares Jump After Morgan Stanley Analyst Upgrades Rating 

 By Nicole Ridgway, Staff Reporter 
406 words
2 February 1999
21:23
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Rambus Inc.'s shares rose Tuesday after Morgan Stanley Dean Witter analyst Mark Edelstone quickly reversed course and upgraded his rating on the shares. 

 Edelstone raised his opinion on the memory chip developer's shares to "outperform" from "neutral", citing recent weakness in its stock and the company's long-term potential. 

 Just three weeks ago, on January 12, he cut his rating to "neutral" from "outperform" because he thought the shares were overvalued. Two days later, the company cautioned investors that earnings during the next two or three quarters would be flat with the fiscal first quarter ended Dec. 31, when it earned eight cents a share. 

 The downgrade and profit warning spurred a sell-off in the company's shares, which had closed at $109.50 on Jan. 11 but ended Monday's session at $74.875. Shares of Rambus (RMBS) closed Tuesday up $6.25, or 8%, at $81.125 on Nasdaq volume of 1.74 million shares, higher than the daily average of 867,200. 

 In a research note, Morgan Stanley's Edelstone said additional selling pressure in Rambus' shares stemmed from "a slip in Intel's 820 chipset schedule and concerns that the schedule has slipped again." 

 The analyst said the weakness in Rambus' stock price has "largely discounted" Intel Corp.'s (INTC) schedule delays, and shares will find "solid support in the mid 60s to low 70s." 

 Intel encountered normal engineering problems while preparing the 820 chipset for production, Edelstone said, and the chip maker is "on track" to unveil a chipset that will support the 600 megahertz versions of Direct Rambus DRAMs at the end of the second quarter, which ends March 31. 

 Technical hurdles, however, may cause Intel to delay delivery of an 820 chipset that supports the Direct Rambus DRAM spec of 800 megahertz by three months or so, he noted. 

 Looking forward, Edelstone said Intel "is highly motivated to solve any technical issues and ramp the Rambus memory architecture into the mainstream PC market in the second half of 1999." 


He currently has a 12-month price target of $110 on Rambus shares,
which he said could have a "meaningful upside" once shipments of Direct
Rambus DRAMs are shipping in high volumes.
   - Nicole Ridgway; 201-938-5174



Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.



All Rights Reserved.


Document djon000020020329dv2201tpm




 Mattel, As Expected, Posts Big Plunge In 4th-Quarter Earnings 

809 words
2 February 1999
15:57
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Mattel Inc., struggling with a slowdown in orders from toy retailers, on Tuesday reported a 69% plunge in fourth-quarter net income and a 4.3% drop in sales. 

 The profit drop came as no surprise. In December, the world's biggest toymaker (MAT) stunned shareholders with an announcement that sales for the year would fall $500 million short of expectations, mainly because retailers were cutting their inventories. 

 Mattel said net income in the latest fourth quarter totaled $59.5 million, or 20 cents a share. That included a charge of $4 million, or a penny a share, to settle a lawsuit stemming from Federal Trade Commission action. Excluding the charge, the company earned 21 cents a share, which matched the mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call. 

 A year ago, the company had net income of $195.1 million, or 64 cents a diluted share. 

 Mattel, which dominates the toy market with Barbie, Hot Wheels and other megabrands, said sales slipped to $1.54 billion in the latest quarter. U.S. retail sales of Barbie products rose 10% in 1998 despite a 14% drop in the amount of Barbie products shipped. 

 For the full year, Mattel reported net income of $332.3 million, or $1.10 a diluted share, including charges. Without items, the company earned $1.20 a diluted share, matching the estimate it provided when it issued the profit warning. Before that warning, analysts surveyed by First Call had been calling for Mattel to earn $1.78 a share. 

 The litigation settlement in the latest quarter involved charges that Toys 'R' Us brokered agreements with Mattel and other toy manufacturers to withhold popular items from warehouse stores, which tend to sell the items at prices below the big toy stores. 

 Infant and preschool sales, which were hurt by the recall of some Power Wheels toys, fell 3% for the year. Winnie the Pooh sales rose to almost $300 million for the year, while Mattel sold more than $40 million in Blue's Clues products in four months. 

 Hot Wheels and Matchbox sales boosted total sales of Wheels products more than 20% for the year. Disney and Nickelodeon movie properties helped entertainment revenue rise 14% in 1998. 

 American Girl sales were $300 million in 1998 despite Mattel's difficulty in meeting consumer demand. 

 Mattel's media division sales rose to $100 million in 1998 from $80 million in 1997. The company cited the strength of Barbie's Digital Camera and other children's software titles. Also, "My Design" Barbie, which allows a person to make and order a customized Barbie on the Barbie Web site, made that site one of the fastest-growing new shopping spots on the Web, the company said. 

 In an effort to get in on the online-retail explosion, Mattel last month said it would buy Learning Co., the maker of such hit software titles as Carmen Sandiego and Myst, in an all-stock transaction. Learning Co. is the world's second-largest consumer-software company behind Microsoft Corp. 

 The toy maker is striving to reduce its reliance on standard distribution methods by beefing up its ability to sell direct to the consumer through the Internet and other channels. In June, Mattel agreed to pay $700 million for the maker of the best-selling line of American Girls dolls that are sold exclusively through catalogs. 

 Mattel plans to add 35 new interactive titles in 1999, excluding Learning Co. titles, Chairman and Chief Executive Jill Barad said during a conference call. 

 Mattel added that its direct-to-consumer business represented 10% of total sales last year. The company will "get beyond that 10%" in 1999 through its Internet strategy, Barad said, which includes the launch of Mattel.com in the second half of 1999. Also in the time frame, all of the company's key brands - including Fisher Price and Hot Wheels - will be sold through catalogs and the Internet. 

 A challenge facing Mattel this year is integrating Learning Co., which boasts such brands as "Reader Rabbit" educational software and the game "Myst." Mattel said the merger will make it a leading global children's products company. 

 While Learning Co. will take five cents a share out of Mattel's first-quarter earnings, the company will add to earnings in 1999 and make a more significant contribution in 2000, Barad said during the conference call. 

 Mattel said it will cut costs to bring them more in line with historial ratios, and that it is confident it can achieve at least $1.50 a share in earnings for 1999. The mean estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by First Call is for earnings of $1.51 a share for 1999. 

 Copyright (c) 1999 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020329dv2201t9k




 Ha-Lo Stk -2: Some Analysts Say Shares Are Oversold >HMK 

433 words
1 February 1999
22:47
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK (Dow Jones)--Shares of Ha-Lo Industries Inc. (HMK) continued to fall Monday as investors were apparently still shaken by the company's recent earnings warning that income will fall shy of analysts' 1998 and 1999 estimates. 

 Promotional products distributor Ha-Lo said Thursday it expects to post "recurring" earnings between 97 cents a share and $1.02 for 1998. At the time, First Call Corp.'s 1998 consensus estimate was $1.06. It has since been revised downward to $1.01. 

 Ha-Lo also said it expects 1999 earnings between $1.30 a share and $1.40, compared with First Call's $1.48 estimate. First Call's 1999 estimate has since been revised to $1.37. The company posted earnings of 75 cents a share in 1997. 

 Michael Nemlich, Ha-Lo's vice president, corporate development/financial relations, attributed the drop in share value to the preannouncement Thursday. He declined to provide further details. 

 "We haven't finished our numbers for the quarter. We're going to report on Feb. 18," Nemlich said. 

 Some analysts who follow Ha-Lo said the stock is oversold at current levels. NYSE-listed shares of Ha-Lo settled down 1 3/8, or 6.4%, at 20 1/4 on volume of 1.1 million shares. The stock set a 52-week low Monday, wiping out the previous low of 21 set on Jan. 28. 

 "Regardless of the profit announcement, the stock doesn't deserve to be at these levels," said Credit Suisse First Boston Corp. analyst Gregory Cappelli, who cut his investment rating to buy from strong buy Thursday. In addition, Cappelli trimmed earnings estimates to 98 cents a share in 1998 and $1.30 in 1999, down from $1.07 and $1.53. 

 Cappelli tweaked his research based on concerns Ha-Lo's telemarketing business has hampered financial results. But telemarketing is only 10% of Ha-Lo's business, Cappelli said Monday. So the selloff is overdone, he added. 

 "Ha-Lo's core promotional products business should post 44% in revenue growth and about 60% operating profit growth in 1999," Cappelli said. 


Another Wall Street analyst said shares have continued to fall because
news about Ha-Lo's profit warning didn't come from the company first.
"Investors are disappointed that the news didn't originate with the
company," the analyst said, pointing out that the CS First Boston note
hit the Street first.
   - Jessica Madore Fitch; 201-938-5172



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  02-01-99



05:47 PM


Document dj00000020010826dv2101636




 Hot Stocks: CREAF AXA NOC 

93 words
1 February 1999
15:57
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


Company              Company News
 -  -
Creative Tech        Issued 3Q profit warning; Goldman Sachs
 11 5/8, Dn 3 3/8    and BancBoston Robertson Stephens cut
 22.7% Loss          their ratings.
 1.3 million shares
 (CREAF)
 -  -
AXA ADR              Offered to buy Guardian Royal Exchange
 71 9/16, Dn 1 7/16  PLC for $5.67 billion.
 2% Loss
 35,600 Shares
 (AXA)
-  -
Northrop Grumman     PaineWebber upgraded Company to buy
 60, Up 3            from neutral.
 5.3% Gain
 220,900 Shares
 (NOC)



(END) DOW JONES NEWS  02-01-99


 10:57 AM 

Document dj00000020010826dv21014ck




 Barron's Roundtable: Growth's Guises: Three of our panel's super stockpickers scour the globe for values 

15,879 words
1 February 1999
Barron's
B
21
English
 (Copyright (c) 1999, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 Ebullience. It was in anything but short supply as Barron's panel of nine extraordinary investors came together on Monday, January 11, for the 31st annual meeting of our Roundtable. In the market, Web stocks were flying. Portfolios, levitating. Around the conference room, it was investment ideas -- and not a few good-natured gibes -- that flew. Which was much as we expected from this contentious, competitive and contrary bunch. 

 Yet when the talk turned to the prospects for growth this year -- in the domestic economy or globally -- ebullience went AWOL. Which means, our panelists generally agreed, that real corporate profit growth is likely to become increasingly difficult to find. And that investment success in '99 will therefore depend much more than it has of late on stock selection. 

 Which just happens to be a forte of each of the investment pros we invited to the Roundtable. This, the third and final installment of this year's session, features the stockpicking turns of Felix Zulauf, Meryl Buchanan and John Neff. Three very different investors, three very different styles. But each looking for growth -- at prices he or she can stomach. 

 Felix, the president of Zulauf Asset Management, based in Zug, Switzerland, manages -- with characteristic Swiss discretion -- the assets of international institutions and wealthy individuals. Did very well for them last year, as he does most years, with client portfolios appreciating some 40%. Yet it was Felix's soft accent that, repeatedly, colored some of the most bearish opinions voiced around the table this year. It was also behind some of the more pragmatic recommendations. 

 Could be that the unweighted performance of the ideas he mentioned last year had something to do with it: down almost 16% on average, despite good bull calls on Treasuries and gilts. The list of U.S. and European stock indexes that Felix liked as shorts last January turned out to be considerably less cooperative. No surprise Felix didn't stick around in them. He essentially reversed those positions, rode the longs into summer, then got short again. 

 Now, expecting growth to be a scarce commodity indeed as '99 unfolds, Felix is sticking to some "cheap telecoms" and already rather pricey Euro Bubble longs -- on the theory that people will pay up even more for growth, when and where they can find it. But he's hedging with bets against Japanese government bonds, Credit Suisse, Santander and a couple of pillars of the electronics revolution in Europe. 

 It's not that she sniffs at top-line growth, or bottom-line, for that matter. But the sort of growth that really catches Meryl Buchanan's eye is a swelling stream of after-tax free cash flow being thrown off by a niche company whose shares are languishing. That's where Meryl, who is one-half of New York City's Buchanan Parker Asset Management, spies value a-building -- and opportunities galore for enhancing returns to shareholders. Most especially to Emerald Partners, the highly successful hedge fund she and partner Don Parker started 10 years ago, upon graduation from Mike Price's school for wayward value investors (otherwise known as Price's Mutual Shares organization). 

 Though an aficionado of small(er) stocks, Meryl's far from shellshocked from the shellacking they suffered in 1998's bifurcated bull. Quite the contrary, she's energized. All those decimated small-fry, all those compelling values -- and a frisson of peril from those large-cap valuations, too. Among the stocks Meryl suggests are holders of franchises as familiar as the Yellow Pages, as comfy as baby shoes -- and as exotic as an electronic matchmaker for airplane parts. 

 John Neff, the Windsor and Gemini II funds' once and legendary portfolio manager, needs no introduction. Suffice it to say that he once again interrupted his busy retirement to bring his driest of wits, still-keen eye for value and patient, unperturbable investing style to our table. Sure, a couple of the stocks he picked a year ago, cyclical commodity producers both, tanked -- and pulled the unweighted average return on his picks a few points into negative territory. What's John's response? He sticks with Georgia Gulf and Lyondell -- and recommends both again. 

 Among John's other ideas -- a smattering of home builders and an airline -- and the notion -- also given voice earlier in our session by Barton Biggs -- that investors could do a lot worse, in what looks to be shaping up as a volatile year for the market, than to take shelter in some slow-growing, high-yielding REITs. 

 For all the details, read on. 

 -- Kathryn M. Welling 

 Barron's: Felix, how does this wild investment scene look like it will shake out from your European vantage point? 

 Zulauf: Put it this way: I have two macro plays to suggest here. One, which I also suggested a year ago, is to short JGBs [Japanese government bonds], on the basis that Japan has to turn the corner and go through a major stimulation program to break out of the downward spiral. Government spending has picked up, but the yen is strengthening and the economy is so weak that corporate profits are down by about one-third. And the budget deficit is exploding to about 10% of GDP. That means that Japan has to issue more government bonds in the future. In recent years, the private sector has bought fewer and fewer JGBs. As the interest rate fell to 2.5% and below, the private sector virtually stopped buying. They took up only about 12% of total new JGB issues. And, recently, Japan's Ministry of Finance announced it will buy fewer government bonds, because they disagree with the policy of reflating the system, etc. Yields, for 10-year bonds, have gone from 0.7% to 1.7%. The futures have come down from 138 to about 128, and they are now trading at 130 or so. I think that Japan has no choice. They have to eventually monetize the bad debt that is in the system -- and they'll have to finance that through government bonds, primarily. Which means there will be a lot more new issues of bonds coming. On top of that, the banking bailout will cost them over $1 trillion. Part of which also has to be financed through government bonds. So I see that long JGB yields have nowhere else to go but up. 

 Q: How high? 

 Zulauf: Basically, there are two scenarios. One is that Japan eventually turns around and normalizes the situation. If so, they'll end up with a government debt burden of about 120% of GDP or something like that in two years' time. Which is higher than Italy's. Therefore, you can look at where Italy's government bonds trade -- at interest rates of 4% or slightly above. So that's about the target zone. Japan could go to 4% or slightly above 4%, if the situation normalizes. 

 Q: Even with short-term interest rates staying at practically zero? 

 Zulauf: Absolutely, because that's a reflection of pumping liquidity into the system that doesn't move. The other scenario is that Japan remains in the downward spiral without collapsing for a while longer. That just makes the corporate profit situation worse. Tax revenues will go down further and the deficit will balloon even more. Which means that it is just a timing issue until you get an increase in JGB yields. The real risk to this trade is that you have a total collapse of the Japanese system. Then, money runs away from all the other places in the system, because of credit risk-and they buy JGBs. 

 Q: You're talking 1% short and a 4% long bond rates in Japan? 

 Zulauf: Yes, so what? 

 Gabelli: That's terrific for the banks. 

 Zulauf: The banks can't lend. The banks are shrinking their loan portfolios at the rate almost 4% annually. It's not a healthy situation like you have in the U.S. at present. It's a sick situation. The system is virtually bankrupt and has to be recapitalized. 

 Gabelli: But in the U.S. in 1990-91, what did Greenspan do to help the banks? 

 Zulauf: Put on a big credit spread. 

 Gabelli: Isn't this the same sort of credit spread that's being created in Japan? I mean, it's not usually smart, but what our banks did was borrow short and then lend long to the government. 

 Q: The only trouble is that Japan's banks already have lent long, at 0.7%. 

 Zulauf: Particularly the insurance companies. You know, it actually will kill the insurance companies if Japanese long rates rise. So this scenario is not without risks to the system. 

 Q: What's your other macro bet? 

 Zulauf: In the U.K., we are long the three-month sterling futures contract, the December '99, which is basically a bet on three-month interest rates. We have been long these futures for quite a while and we remain long. The U.K. economy is slowing. 

 MacAllaster: Is your bet here that the pound is too cheap? 

 Zulauf: No, that the pound will get cheaper, and that short-term British interest rates will go down. The economy is slowing due to the combination of the high rates they had and their strong currency and the global trends. GDP in '98 grew at about 2.7%; this year it will be less than 1%. The investment cycle is weakening. We grew 6.5% last year; this year we will probably be flat. Industrial production last year was barely flat and this year will be negative. Corporate profits are already down 6%. All the leading indicators of production and consumption are pointing down. The Bank of England has cut the repo rate a few times in recent months, down to 6% just last week. 

 Q: You're saying British rates will converge with Euroland's? 

 Zulauf: That would be the kicker. I mean, first, three-month rates have come down from a peak of almost 8% last summer to 5.5% now. I think the market will force those rates down to around 4% by the second half. But if the U.K. were to give clear signals that they want to join EMU, short rates would go to below 3%. I expect the euro's three-month rates to fall to maybe 2 1/2% later this year. So you make money either way in my scenario. 

 Q: What could go wrong? 

 Zulauf: I'd lose my bet if the U.K. economy strengthened dramatically. If they had a currency crisis and they protected the pound -- which they probably wouldn't do in a recession. That's your risk. But what's interesting is that [U.K. Prime Minister] Tony Blair wants to be Mr. Europe. But he cannot be Mr. Europe with the U.K. outside of EMU. So he wants to take the U.K. into EMU. And he could sell that move on the platform that taking Britian into EMU would cut mortgage rates for Brits by half. That's an attractive selling gimmick. 

 Anyway, I think buying three-month sterling futures is the way you make money in the U.K. One contract covers b500,000. The contract is priced at 100 minus the three-month rate. The December contract for this year is trading at 94.7, which means it's anticipating three-month rates of 5.3%. If short rates go to 4% instead, the contract's price goes to 96. So you have added a little bit of leverage there. We don't have Nobel Prize winners in our shop, so we don't leverage 400 times, but if we add a little bit. . . . 

 Gabelli: You didn't learn any lessons from LTCM about leverage? 

 Zulauf: I really didn't need LTCM to teach me about the treachery of leverage. 

 Gabelli: Felix, last summer, when the Swiss banks kept announcing all this exposure to hedge funds -- did that change the world -- or your view of it? 

 Zulauf: I knew very well that the Swiss banks are not as conservative as their image was. I was surprised, though, to learn the size of the investment that UBS had taken in just one firm, Long-Term Capital Management. 

 Neff: Before the bailout, did you ever dream they'd be involved in anything so leveraged? 

 Zulauf: I think they didn't know what sort of leverage LTCM was applying. 

 Neff: Didn't they have an obligation? 

 Zulauf: Don't ask me. LTCM is a U.S. money-management firm. 

 Neff: Yes, but the interesting thing is that the bailout committee included four or five domestic banks, three commercial banks -- and six European banks. 

 Zulauf: I will come to the European banks a little bit later; I have some recommendations there. But first I want to focus on the European equity markets' tremendous volatility, as I described at the beginning of this session [Roundtable, January 18]. The long-term themes -- deregulation, improved corporate governance, the major reallocation toward equities on the Continent, the restructurings and the M&A deals -- all remain in place. Those are long-term themes that will probably last a few more years. But the immediate problem is that the markets are not cheap. European markets, in absolute terms, are expensive. They are trading at 23 times earnings on average. On the other hand, we have much lower interest rates in Europe than in this country and maybe a little bit better earnings momentum-but not much. So compared with alternative investments, or fixed-income investments, European markets are not expensive. They are expensive in absolute terms, but not in relative terms. 

 Neff: Europe has, on average, an 11% unemployment rate or so. Which, in this country, would mean no wage increases. Over there it isn't quite the same. What are you expecting, 4% wage hikes? 

 Zulauf: The handicap of Europe is clearly the socialist bias of the society and the political set-up -- which won't change. 

 Schafer: The social rigidity . . . 

 Zulauf: Therefore, you cannot expect that Europe adjusts to this new world as quickly as an Anglo-Saxon country does. But it is happening slowly. The risk is, in the short term, that under the leadership of [German Finance Minister] Oskar Lafontaine, they try something stupid. You know, try to legislate full employment or something like that. If they do, it will backfire and one-and-a-half or two years later they'll have to reverse policy. 

 Neff: What kind of a wage increase are you forecasting in Europe? 

 Zulauf: Some unions are asking for 6%. That's completely unrealistic. I think, at the end of the day, they will be happy to settle for 1% or something like that, very low. Because that's the reality. 

 Neff: So you see less wage pressure in Europe than here? 

 Zulauf: Yes, the pressure is much more on the political side, where the governments are trying to pressure the corporate sector to employ people. 

 Q: Well, tell us what stocks you find attractive. 

 Zulauf: I have two themes on the long side and two on the short side. In Europe's low-growth environment, I think the telecommunications sector enjoys a very favorable framework. The European telephone market is about a $200 billion market that is growing 8% per annum, which is about three times GDP. So that's a sector where you have top-line growth; you have earnings growth, and you have all sorts of changes occurring. Technological change, with fiber and mobile and the Internet, etc. You have the deregulation that started in earnest last year. It's a domestic play, so you are not as exposed as in other large blue chips. 

 Q: What does domestic mean to you now? Euroland? 

 Zulauf: Not only Euroland. It's really all of Western Europe, including the U.K., where you have very high levels of corporate activity because of all the exciting things happening. But this has not gone unnoticed. The telecommunications sector was '98's best performer. But the underlying momentum continues. What's interesting is that institutional portfolios, despite all these things happening, are still 50% underweighted in the sector. 

 Q: European institutional portfolios? 

 Zulauf: Yes, that's basically because it's only in the past few years that a lot of Europe's monopolistic state-owned telecommunications companies were privatized. 

 Gabelli: So half of their capitalizations are still owned by the governments. Therefore, if you look at the weightings of Deutsche Telekom and France Telecom in the averages, the institutions can't be fully invested. 

 Zulauf: Well, they could, but they'd push prices through the roof. And some of those companies have problems, like a Deutsche Telekom. Art already mentioned Telecom Italia, so I don't want to go into it in any depth. But we also like it -- it's the cheapest telecom stock in the world. What Art didn't say is that if you take out the value of the mobile subsidiary, Telecom Italia Mobile, the basic TI business is being valued at 1.7 times EBITDA [earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization]. That's very cheap. 

 Gabelli: Say that last word, "E-B-I-T-DA". 

 Zulauf: EBITDA. 

 Gabelli: Yes! I like to see that you're ingraining that into your thought process. 

 Zulauf: I listen to you so often, I'm learning! Telecom Italia Mobile is the biggest cellular operator in Italy, has a market share of 70% and a share of new cellular additions of about 60%. The company also owns some stakes in Greece, Austria, France, Spain and Brazil. Telecom Italia owns 55% of the mobile company. Telecom Italia Mobile is a huge company, the market cap is 51 billion euros. The savings shares trade at a discount of 40% to the ordinary shares. Savings shares have no voting power in Italy. But because the mother company, Telecom Italia, owns 55%, it really doesn't matter whether you own the ordinary or the savings shares. And that's why TIM's savings shares are a cheap way of buying into a high-growth situation. What's also interesting is that the first share buyback in Italy has now been approved by a court in Torino. It's for another company. But since laws and courts in Italy can have different orientations, depending on what city it is and what state it is, it is important to know that TIM also has its registered office in Torino. So, it could do the same thing. And, in fact, Telecom Italia Mobile recently announced that they will buy back 300 million savings shares, which is 19% of its total savings shares and 5% of total equity capital. This is a very cashgenerative business, which is what allows them to buy back those savings shares. They have an option plan for management which is attractive. Based on valuation, the ordinary shares are trading at 34 times earnings, the savings shares are trading at 21 times earnings. The company on enterprise value, or EBITDA compared to growth, is trading at the same ratio as Vodafone. So it's about in line with its peers. 

 Q: Won't it run into trouble, like Telemex did, when it has to compete with more efficient foreign companies? 

 Gabelli: You've got it wrong. France Telecom and Telecom Italia are the more efficient companies. The foreigners are more efficient. American companies have become notoriously inefficient in the global telecom marketplace. 

 Zulauf: In technology in general, Europe is behind the U.S. Except in telecommunications. And particularly, in mobile telecommunications, the Europeans are ahead. That's because, very early, the EU made the decision that the standard technology is GSM. Therefore, you had one technology throughout Europe; everybody could focus on that. In the U.S., you had fragmented technologies. 

 Gabelli: I'll even go one step further. I would argue that even in the local exchange business, the French, Germans, Italians are ahead in terms of the digitalization of fiber. What they'll fall behind on is going into IP [Internet protocol] telephony. They moved ahead, because we had different regulation here. But we will now leapfrog because of IP telephony. In mobile, you have three standards in the United States: GSM, TDMA and CDMA. Over there, you had one, GSM, which gave you enormous economies of scale, lots of efficiency in roaming. 

 Black: What's the penetration rate in Italy? And how much does an average subscriber pay for a month? 

 Gabelli: The RPUs are about the same in mobile all over the Continent. 

 Q: RPUs? 

 Gabelli: Average monthly revenues per unit. 

 Zulauf: Italy's cellular penetration is relatively high in Europe, 36% in '98. It's expected to go to 52% in 2000. It's the world's fastest-growing mobile market. 

 Gabelli: The other issue in Italy is that the main competitor, Omnitel Pronto Italia, is majority owned by Mannesmann together with Olivetti. 

 Zulauf: Through OliMan, a joint holding company. 

 Neff: Not Gabelli Telecom? 

 Gabelli: Another couple companies also own stakes in Omnitel, Bell Atlantic is one and . . . 

 Black: . . . AirTouch Communications is also involved. 

 Gabelli: Anyway, Mannesmann and Olivetti have moved to increase their stake in Omnitel by tendering to buy Cellular Communications Inc. [a Nasdaq-listed company controlled by a group of investment funds], whose principal asset is a 10% stake in Omnitel. They're offering $66.75 a share. [The bid was raised to $80 on January 19.] 

 Black: Are all of Telecom Italia Mobile's cells built out, or do they have a lot of capital expenditures ahead of them? 

 Zulauf: They're pretty well built. We also have a phone company in Greece. And Greece is still interesting because it's the last convergence play. Long-term interest rates in Greece, five year, are at 7%, compared to 3.5% for Germany. Greece is expected to join EMU in about two years. 

 Neff: Will they qualify? They are quite a ways away. 

 Zulauf: No, no, they are not there yet, but they are coming close. The budget deficit is 2.5%, the current-account deficit has improved from 4% in '97 to 2.8%. Because interest rates keep coming down, they are in a virtuous circle. Short rates are at 11% versus 3% for EMU. Inflation was 8% in '96, 5% in '97, 4% in '98, and is expected to be about 2.5% this year. So they could make it. 

 Neff: And they want very much to come in, right? 

 Zulauf: Absolutely. There is a company in Greece, known by its stock symbol, OTE. It's the national telephone operator. Officially, the Hellenic Telecommunications Organization. It has the monopoly right to provide local, long-distance and international voice telephony until January 2001 for the whole country. So they are protected for another two years. OTE owns 70% of Cosmote, a cellular subsidiary which has a market penetration of 15%. It started operations in '98 and is expected to capture about 25% of the market by 2000. There are three players in the mobile market in Greece. The government still owns 75% of the national company after privatization in '96 and further offerings in '97 and '98. 

 Q: Are they planning more offerings? 

 Zulauf: Yes, they still own 75%. They will come further down. The stock is listed on the Big Board here in New York. It sells at about 15 times earnings. So it is still cheap. It's another way to participate. An interesting baby, one that is also listed in the U.S. on Nasdaq, is Global Telesystems Group, an independent developer, owner and operator of telecommunications companies in Europe. There was an IPO in February '98 at $20; the stock is now 60. Using enterprise value to sales, it's valued at only 50% of its peers, like Colt Telecom and Equant NV. GTS intends to become the prime operator of end-user and carrier communications services throughout Europe. It already is the only pan-European carriers' carrier, and it has the only pan-European network. It counts the large telephone companies among its clients, like France Telecom, Deutsche Telekom, British Telecom. It also is the largest independent wireline telephone company in Russia. Actually, the company started out to operate telephone lines in Russia, back in '83. First, it was a non-profit organization; it changed later on and was renamed in '95. 

 Q: Is it still nonprofit in Russia? Or how does it manage to collect on its bills? 

 Zulauf: It is profitable in Russia. It has, in particular, the lines going out of Russia. 

 Q: So they charge the people called? 

 Zulauf: Well, they do charge in U.S. dollars. Their Russian business was very important until quite recently. In '97, it was 86% of revenues. Today, it's only about 17% of revenues because the other part of the business is growing so fast. It's really a pan-European company and becoming more recognized. Probably will become better recognized when the stock gets listed on the European exchange, which is planned for this year. Then the European institutions can buy it. This company has the third-largest network of fiber optics and wires throughout Europe. It has 18,000 kilometers in a network. First is British Telecom, with 25,000, second is a joint venture of France Telecom and Deutsche Telekom with 20,000, and third is Global Telesystems Group, with 18,000. The next biggest carrier in the market has only 5,500 kilometers in its network. So it is a large operator. And we think this company, which has a market cap of about $3.5 billion, will not stay independent for many years. 

 Q: What's your next theme? 

 Zulauf: On the long side, this concept is called the Euro Bubble. As you know, 11 countries have gone into one currency. We now have the European Monetary Union. That means there is one interest rate, one monetary policy and one currency. But obviously, the economies differ in structure, in their stage of the economic cycle and momentum, etc. Currently, Germany is the weak guy, which is about one-third of Euroland. And policy is set according to Germany's needs at present, while other countries, like Spain or Ireland, are experiencing almost boom conditions. Spain is growing at 4% and Ireland, at 6%-7%. It's a real boom there. They should have higher rates, or could live with higher rates. But these countries now have the short rates that Germany needs, which means that the domestic parts of their economies are bubbling, doing very well. There is momentum. As investors, you want to be long in those areas. 

 But again, the stocks are not cheap anymore. This concept has been discovered to some degree. We think the retailing sector is attractive. The construction sector is attractive. But in retailing, I want to name two names. One, in Spain, is Pryca. The company is the leading Spanish hypermarket company. It's a subsidiary of Carrefour, the French company. Operates 56 hypermarkets throughout Spain, with an average sales floor area of 10,000 square meters. 

 Q: How much is owned by Carrefour? 

 Zulauf: 60%. Pryca is exceptionally profitable. It is expensive, trading at about 26 times this year's earnings. But it has momentum and there are not many companies that have earnings momentum like these companies in bubbling economies. This is one stock that one could buy still. 

 Q: It trades in Spain? 

 Zulauf: This is in Spain. In Italy . . . 

 Q: What about Ireland? Any retailers? 

 Zulauf: Not really. Those are all small companies. In Ireland, the play was in the banks and a construction company. But in Italy, there's Rinascente, which could be used. And they also have savings shares, which sell at a discount and at a dividend yield of 2.6%. That's close to the moneymarket rate. There is a consolidation coming in the Italian retail market and Rinascente is one of the dominant companies, making this a share you could use. Another one is in Spain. A domestic bank called Argentaria. 

 Q: Domestic, with a name like Argentaria? 

 Zulauf: Yes, Argentaria is really the result of a reorganization of state-owned banking entities in '91. It's a pure play on Spain. It has no Latin American risks, which is important. Today there is a 100% free float. It's the fourth-largest bank in Spain and 95% of group income is domestic -- so it is really a domestic operation. If you'd like to play the Euro Bubble, this is the bank you should use. It has three units: retail banking, commercial wholesale lending, and investment banking and asset management. The management is shareholder friendly. It has a declared goal of increasing profitability from a current return on equity of 13%-17%. It will be part of the industry-wide consolidation; at some point, it will merge with somebody. 

 Q: You promised you'd talk about other European banks. 

 Zulauf: You're right. There are other banks in Europe -- and I'm coming to my shorts, which are more risky. There will be short-term rallies in some of the banks, because of merger announcements and such -- which makes the shorts a little risky. But long-term, the massive writeoffs looming for many big banks will be even riskier for their shares -- because the deflationary process at work in the global economy is bad for the banks that are the large lenders. Particularly those that have large exposures to the emerging world. 

 The emerging world owes $900 billion to the global banking system. Two-thirds of those loans are on the books of European banks. One-third of that $900 billion is lost and has to be written off. I do not believe that the IMF and the World Bank are big enough to jump in and do the trick for the banks. The numbers are so high that the banks will have to take the writeoffs themselves. 

 Neff: The Bank of Japan is important in that sweepstakes, at least the Asian part of the bad loans. 

 Zulauf: Europe is even worse. 

 Neff: And, of course, U.S. banks are exposed, albeit to a more limited degree. But aren't the European banks' bad loans importantly their Russian loans? 

 Zulauf: No, it's everywhere. It's Russia. It's Asia. It's Latin America. 

 Neff: Indonesia. 

 Schafer: Felix, have any of the banks taken any of the writeoffs yet? 

 Zulauf:  Yes, but they have been small, so far. The point is that European banks lent particularly to finance capital goods, which are an important need in the emerging markets. The European banks really accompanied the capital-goods producers into the emerging markets and did the financing for them. So because we had an investment boom in those emerging countries over the last six or seven years, they built up their books. 

 Q: So when will the writeoffs hit? 

 Zulauf: Well, I think the European banks' managements believe that they can eventually walk away -- as they always could in the past because the IMF or somebody else jumped in and bailed them out. I don't see that this time, because the problem is too big. So, we will see the writeoffs over the next few years. We'll see the writeoffs every year -- and that will eat into earnings. Now, the banks are relatively cheap compared with the market. They trade at a discount. But they are probably not cheap enough yet. 

 MacAllaster: Are you talking about every large European bank? 

 Zulauf: All of the international banks that are big in commercial lending to emerging markets. 

 Neff: And they'll do it piecemeal, because doing it in one whack would wipe out capital? 

 Zulauf: Some would be at real risk. I mean, some of the French banks would probably disappear if you had to mark those loans to the market. So, thank God, they can do it over five years or so. 

 Black: Is a lot of this debt sovereign, or is it private corporate debt? 

 Zulauf: It's both. On top of that, you have some banks, like a Credit Suisse, with large proprietary investments in Russian government bonds and things like that. 

 Gabelli: Does the European Central Bank have a mechanism for becoming the lender of last resort to bail out national banks? 

 Zulauf: That's a good question, and nobody knows the answer. You can even ask the ECB members. Nobody knows for sure. I think they would act, but it is not clear in their mandate. 

 Gabelli: I would like to see a European fireman with a fire hose in the ECB. 

 Zulauf: I have two banks on my short list. And, to prove that I'm not a chauvinist 

 Gabelli: You are a chauvinist -- they are both French. 

 Zulauf: Credit Suisse goes first. Credit Suisse provides universal banking services. It's the second-largest banking group in Switzerland. In recent years, they have done everything wrong -- or, at least, a lot wrong. During the 1990s, they have taken over every single bank they could -- at unreasonable prices. They have made so many management mistakes that they are now trapped in their original basic business and they have very large exposure to the emerging markets. For instance, in Russia they have way over $3 billion of exposure. They have provisioned for $1 billion, but their net exposure is still about $2.5 billion. 

 Schafer: What are they waiting for? 

 Zulauf: You know, when your equity capital goes down, you have a problem meeting your qualification requirements. In Asia, they have $4.3 billion of exposure and they have provisioned for $470 million, so it's basically 10%. 

 MacAllaster: How fresh are these numbers? 

 Zulauf: These are the latest numbers they've given, in the fourth quarter. In Latin America, they have $1.7 billion of exposure and zero provisions. 

 Q: Zilch, nada? 

 Zulauf: Zero. 

 Gabelli: But you have to look at where those exposures are. 

 Black: In Chile, Argentina. 

 Gabelli: Those are overvalued currencies. 

 Black: At least the countries aren't bankrupt. 

 Zulauf: Based on I/B/E/S consensus expectations, Credit Suisse trades at 18-19 times 1998 earnings and at 15 times '99. I think those consensus estimates are far too high -- and will drop a lot lower. This stock has 30% downside, easily. It trades at 2.7 times book. So I would say short it, or sell it short and use it as a good hedge for our longs. 

 MacAllaster: What is their capital base? 

 Zulauf: Equity capital is $19 billion. 

 MacAllaster: And you're saying they are under-reserved by $12 billion-$13 billion in those various markets. 

 Zulauf: Yes, but let's say worse comes to worst: They have to write off $5 billion or so. 

 Gabelli: Return on equity goes up dramatically. 

 Zulauf: Yes, that's one way of doing it. 

 Neff: But they would also have exposure on the First Boston side, if we got into a bad market for investment banking, underwriting and all those good things. 

 Zulauf: Basically, Credit Suisse has a huge exposure to capital markets. Their trading portfolio is almost $90 billion. And the investment portfolio of their Winterthur insurance subsidiary is $77 billion. 

 Gabelli: Has the stock recovered from the drubbing it took last summer when the LTCM news came out? 

 Zulauf: Pretty much. The stock went down, in Swiss francs, from the highs 300s to about 140, but has since bounced back to around 250, where it's trading now. I think we will go down to those lows again. 

 The other bank I want to mention as a short is Spanish, Banco Santander. 

 Gabelli: Arghhhh, my long! 

 Zulauf: We could use it as a hedge against Argentaria. It is the second-largest Spanish commercial bank. It operates a network of almost 6,000 branches worldwide, 34% of its business is in Spain. Some 6% of the profits come from investment banking, 68% of the profits from Spanish retail banking. But 31% of total assets are in Latin America-and that's key. They have a limited exposure to Asia, only a few hundred million dollars and virtually nothing to Russia. But 25% of Santander's Latin America investments are in higherrisk countries like Venezuela, 10%; Brazil, 13%; Colombia, 4%. In Mexico, they have 4%. Santander is the most risky because they have the biggest loan book and the least conservative provisioning policy. The group's Latin American nonperforming loan ratio is 3.8%. In Venezuela, nonperforming loans increased by 70% in the second half of '98. The nonperforming loan ratio in Brazil for this company is 13%; in Peru, 6%. Santander's Latin American loan book equals $29 billion. Santander's equity capital equals $4.4 billion. So that's a short. 

 Q: Mario, are you going to sell? 

 Gabelli: No. In Argentina, the peso is tied to the dollar. The dollar has gotten weaker, but you still have lots of other dynamics at work. I mean, it's materially overvalued currencies that are the problem -- in Argentina, Chile and most of Latin America. 

 Zulauf: Brazil also. Brazil has an overvalued currency. And they are trapped because they have a lot of loans denominated in U.S. dollars, so they cannot devalue. That's why they try to keep the currency up, which is really a policy for disaster, because that deepens the recession. At some time, it blows up. [Brazil widened the real's trading band on January 14; it has since sunk as low as two to the dollar.] 

 Anyway, Santander stock, at 17 euros, is selling at about 19 times expected consensus earnings. So it's not cheap, and that's 3.4 times book. It was trading at 25 euros last summer, went down to 10 and bounced back up to 17 now. 

 MacAllaster: Are those earnings down from a year ago? 

 Zulauf: No, they are still up because they are not provisioning. By the way, it's listed on the Big Board. 

 Another short theme I want to mention is that there are some stocks perceived as growth stocks-and highly valued -- that will most likely deliver disappointing earnings, that cannot deliver what is expected. In a sluggish economic environment, as we had last year, corporate earnings growth was also sluggish. That, combined with declining interest rates, pushed multiples for growth stocks to very high levels. As a result, this year, those institutional darlings that disappoint investors to any real extent will get punished harshly. Pricing problems due to intensifying competition are widely underestimated, I believe. 

 One of those darlings that is disappointing already and will disappoint more is SAP, the German company which is a market leader in enterprise-resource-planning software -- like PeopleSoft, with which it competes. 

 This is a big-cap stock; it's a large company. Market cap is about 40 billion euros. Group sales are four billion euros. The stock has an index weight of about 8% in the DAX, the German market index. The group's sales are 43% in North America, 19% in Germany, 6% in Japan. What's interesting is that in terms of pretax earnings, only 28% are in North America and 47% are in Germany. That tells you something about where the competition is. In terms of sales, the mix is 68% products -- software -- and 21% consulting. This is changing-product sales are coming down and consulting is going up. The company came out with a profit warning just recently. They have increased staff tremendously, by about 40% in '98 alone. Staff costs in '97 were 34% of sales, in '98 were 38% of sales-and sales are now slowing. Product sales in the past were dominated by Year 2000-type products and ones to prepare for the euro. Those two came together. And new projects need about nine to 12 months to be completed. That led to a bulge in sales, which is now going to normalize. That's the problem. They increased staff and now the normalization of sales occurs. In the U.S., SAP's biggest source of earnings, competition is increasing. Germany, SAP's most profitable market, is likely to grow by only 10%. Sales and profit growth is likely to drop dramatically. From '93 to '97, it was about 50%. This is now coming down to about 20%. So the stock is vulnerable because it is still valued at about 45 times estimated consensus earnings-and the consensus is too high. Earnings in '97 were $4.50; $6.11 is the estimate for '98 and $8.02 for '99. We think it more likely earnings will come in around $6 for '98 and $7.40 for '99. Based on our estimates, the stock is trading at a very high multiple. And its P/E is almost two times its growth rate in '99, compared with about 1.3 times for PeopleSoft. So SAP is a good short. Although the stock has declined already, it will go down further because the disappointments will not stop. 

 Q: Is that it? 

 Zulauf: This is my last short: Ericsson. It is one of the leaders in wireless and wireline communications equipment. Ericsson has three main divisions, one for fixed-line telephony, another, mobile systems for complete wireless networks, and one that makes mobile-phone handsets. Operating margins are under pressure in all three. Nokia is much better. The problem is that Ericsson seems to be falling behind in technology and is losing market share in handsets. Nokia is much more innovative. Ericsson is also losing market share in switching technology. China is Ericsson's biggest market for mobile systems, and I'm not very bullish on China. R&D has to go up dramatically because they are falling behind in technology. So R&D expenses may be growing by 15%, and sales are expected to grow by only about 9% this year. So the margin squeeze is on. The stock trades at 33 times '99 earnings. Price/earnings-ratio-to-growth is 3.5; for Nokia it is 2.2, and for Motorola it is 2. Ericsson is still too expensive and is one of the shorts that we are using for hedging and outright shorting. 

 MacAllaster: Tell us this. Are you more short than long in equities? 

 Zulauf: It depends on the mandate. We are absolute performers. We have just reduced our longs from about net 70% long to about balanced, but this could change. We manage the risk very quickly. And we are not dogmatic. We don't want to be the heroes, we want to make money. 

 MacAllaster: That's a strange attitude. 

 Zulauf: Absolutely! 

 Q: Thank you, Felix. Meryl, we know you like to make money, too. Want to share some ideas, now that you've seen what goes on in these gatherings? 

 Buchanan: I'm considering it -- carefully. What we really look for is the following: niche companies, with good managements, good balance sheets and that generate after-tax free cash flow. We want to buy these gems at low multiples. That's what I'm looking for, and I see some things that meet our requirements now. 

 One company that we've been buying recently is Stride Rite. Its portfolio of brands includes Keds sneakers, Stride Rite children's shoes, Sperry shoes. And they are the licensee of Tommy Hilfiger footwear. Overall, their sales came in at $540 million for '98, with about $200 million from Keds, $200 million from Stride Rite, $50 million from Sperry, $60 million from Hilfiger and about $30 million internationally. So, it's essentially a U.S. company. It has been a perennial disappointer. It's had trouble over the years with a myriad of things, including implementing a distribution facility that they put in a few years ago. Amazingly, through all this, the brands have endured. Keds, right now, is in the midst of a strong turnaround. They brought in a new head of merchandising, who is absolutely terrific. There aren't many marketers I like. But the type of marketer I like is the one who does consumer research, analyzes what it says, and then implements. That's what she has done. With Keds, she put in a chunkier sole, which is popular with younger people. And for the older set -- 35 on up -- she's added what other people added to chinos. 

 Neff: The older set is 35 and up? 

 Buchanan: I'm in there now. Anyway, she has added a line of relaxed-fit Keds. You know, instead of the old Keds, which were cute but uncomfortable, these relaxed-fit Keds are thickly padded. The uppers are made from cloth that has been pre-washed. People really love them. They introduced some new styles in April of '98, and they flew out of the stores. Orders are up 20% for '99; things are looking very good there. The children's side of the business, Stride Rite. . . 

 Q: You've recently become well-acquainted with. 

 Buchanan: I know a lot more about it than I used to, since I had twin boys last year. It's a slow but steady grower. It adds about 5%-7% to sales each year. Interestingly, most countries in the world have an upscale and enduring brand in children shoes. It's a real franchise. In the U.S., the franchise is Stride Rite, without a doubt. The reason we got interested in Stride Rite is that they changed management. We always look for good managements. They hired this guy, Jim Eskridge, who used to work at Mattel -- where he was one of the three people really instrumental in its big turnaround. He had a great career at Mattel, but he resigned/retired when Jill Barad got the top spot and he did not. But he is a very dynamic guy who was looking for a new challenge. He took a couple of years off, played golf for a while, I understand. Then started looking around. I also understand that, at his insistence, his compensation package is very heavily weighted toward options. I mean, the third-hand quote I have heard is, "I don't care what I make, I want to make money in the stock." He is very strong in operations, and he is very strong in finance. I believe he presented his game plan to the board about three weeks after he had officially started working at Stride Rite -- although, as soon as he signed on the dotted line, I think he really got going. He doesn't waste any time. Stride Rite has no debt, so his plan may be to add some brands via acquisition, which was what he did at Mattel. But, assuming no sweetener from acquisitions, if he just gets the current Stride Rite company running well, they should be able to get 11% operatingincome margins -- which they've done in the past -- on sales of about $590 million-$600 million in the year 2000. We'll give him a year to get rolling. That means you'd have earnings per share of 90 cents by fiscal 2000. The stock trades at 8 and it has $1 a share of net cash. Put about a 14 multiple on the earnings and add back the cash, and you get a target of 13-14 for the stock. Which is a lot of upside from here. And that's without a sweetener, without him doing something really smart, via an acquisition. Stride Rite also has a book value of $5.50 and sales of $11 a share, so we don't see a lot of risk. 

 Q: Go on 

 Buchanan: Another stock that we like is Aviall. The carnage in the small-caps is what really caused Aviall to be a great opportunity. It has two businesses. It's the leading aviation-parts distributor in the world, although it is a fragmented industry. It serves both the commercial and general aviation aftermarkets. In 1998, it sold about 94,000 SKUs to 13,000 customers. 

 Q: Sounds like a logistics nightmare. 

 Buchanan: It's what they do. They do it well. It also has a gem of a business that a lot of people are not aware of; it's called ILS, for inventory locator service. It's a database, a business that Mario would probably like, that allows airlines and others to buy and sell parts to one another. What Aviall gets is a subscription fee. 

 Gabelli: A uBid of the air net, all right. 

 Buchanan: Basically, you are right. 

 Gabelli: No, it's an eBay of the air bay. 

 Q: Icks-nay. Sorry, Meryl, go on. 

 Gabelli: You weren't sorry about interrupting me. Is this rookie to be accorded civility here? 

 Q: That's only right. 

 Gabelli: Baloney! 

 Neff: The difference is that you deserve to be interrupted, Mario. 

 Buchanan: To people in the aviation-parts industry, ILS is a brand akin to Kleenex. It's very well-known; everyone uses it. They provide over 35 million line items of parts. Its users access the system 23,000 times a day. For '98, Aviall should report fully taxed earnings per share of about 91 cents, and free cash flow -- the only number we really pay attention to -- of $1.03, we think, which includes about 12 cents a share of goodwill amortization, which we add back. [Aviall Thursday reported slightly better '98 net, fully taxed, of 96 cents a share, before special items.] The balance sheet is clean; interest coverage is over 10 times. It has a net operating loss carryforward which should allow them to avoid paying taxes for the next seven years. The NOL is worth about $2.50 a share. 

 Q: How did they rack that up? 

 Buchanan: If you go back, this company was a real mess. They owned a bunch of different businesses. 

 Schafer: They were spun off by Ryder. 

 Buchanan: Correct. 

 Schafer: They had an engine-repair business. The problem was that they guaranteed the customer a specific cost on repairing the engines -- and they had huge overruns. The company almost went bankrupt about three years ago. Then sold the engine business. Okay? 

 Buchanan: Very good. Better than I can do. 

 Neff: My God, he's encyclopedic. 

 Black: Meryl, aren't Aviall's revenues and earnings trailing down a little bit? All the estimates have been cut. Because I looked. They have shown up as cheap statistically. But there has been a slowdown in their business in the third and fourth quarters. 

 Buchanan: Business has slowed a little -- to about flat, or up a little. It really depends, in the distribution part of the business, on air miles flown. So it doesn't matter how many people are on a plane -- it just matters how many hours are flown. 

 Schafer: Why the slowdown then, because of Asia? 

 Buchanan: Right. But I was just visiting Cytec the other day, and heard an interesting comment. They said that the planes in Asia are flying absolutely full. So with any tick up over there, you really should start to see more air miles flown. We have earnings going up a little bit next year. But they're not ebullient earnings by any means, at this point. 

 Schafer: What earnings do you see for next year? 

 Buchanan: For '99, we have Aviall at $1.12 of free cash flow. 

 Schafer: What about earnings per share, fully taxed? 

 Buchanan: Reported EPS, fully taxed, should be $1 in '99. 

 Schafer: What are they going to do with the free cash flow? 

 Buchanan: I'll get to that in a second. The ILS business grows at about 8%, top line, better than that, bottom line. We value it at about a 20 P/E on its estimated earnings of 28 cents a share -- that is, its share of Aviall's earnings in '99. In other words, ILS, we think, is worth about $5.60 per Aviall share. As I said, the NOL is worth $2.50 a share, discounting it at 12%. Then we put an 11-to-13 multiple on the cash earnings per share of the distribution business, which is 75 cents a share. That gets you 8 1/4-9 3/4 a share. If you add up all the pieces, you get a trading value of $16-$18 a share, versus Aviall's price today of about 11. 

 And here we have a catalyst. There is a guy, Eugene Conese, who in conjunction with his son and some other aerospace executives, bought a 7% stake in Aviall [now 8%], and filed a 13D saying they want to increase the value of the stock. They're seeking board representation and say they'd even consider buying the company. This father and son team built Greenwich Air Services -- the precursor of which, by the way, they bought from Aviall-from about $66 million in sales to $800 million, via well-timed acquisitions. Then they sold it at a huge, huge profit to General Electric. We think they want to do a similar thing here. We also think a lot of the current CEO, Eric Anderson. He's done a terrific job running Aviall. But we don't mind having some smart shareholders shake this up a little. 

 Gabelli: Where are they based, Miami? 

 Buchanan: No, in Dallas. Aviall has 20 million shares and $50 million of debt. A little bit bigger-cap stock we've been buying is Beckman Coulter. It's the product of the acquisition by Beckman Instruments of Coulter. The Beckman side of the business makes lab-test systems that hospitals and universities use to analyze body fluids. These range from a simple glucose test to more complicated heart, thyroid or kidney-condition tests. The Coulter side of the business does test systems that are used to detect blood-cell abnormalities; they are also primarily sold to hospitals and universities. 

 It is an acquisition that was initially misunderstood by the Street. They knocked the stock from about 50 down into the high 30s. I think investors weren't happy with the near-term earnings dilution, the taking on of goodwill and a pretty significant leveraging up of the company. By contrast, the industry insiders we spoke with viewed the combination as a master stroke -- the acquisition of the most respected company in the hematology business. Overall, the test business is a very attractive steady business, a razorblade business. The manufacturers sell or lease the machines at around cost and make their money selling the reagents, the razor blades. Reagents are the proprietary substances that you mix with the body fluid to cause a reaction and enable the analysis to take place. When a customer buys or leases a machine, they agree to buy the reagents only from the manufacturer. Over 70% of the revenues are reagents and supplies -- real recurring sales. Coulter is No. 1 in hematology worldwide. It has a market share of about 40%, which is double its closest competitor. It has an installed base of about 45,000 systems. Beckman is No. 2 in clinical chemistry, but it's No. 1 in systems placed in the last six years. These are both very strong companies. Beckman's installed base is around 30,000 machines. 

 Q: Are they combining lots of administrative functions? 

 Buchanan: Absolutely. There are huge synergies in sales, back office, service. They have 100% customer overlap, zero percent product overlap. The merger has resulted already in a lot of revenue- and expense-related synergies, and there are more to come. Coulter, like many family businesses, was very well-respected, but not necessarily run to maximize profit. And the Beckman management is good at this. They did it to their own companytook out about 1,000 people, 14% of the work force, and increased productivity 28%. By the end of '98, we don't have the numbers yet, but they should have saved around $60 million. We should see another $15 million or $20 million in '99. They've done it in a very smooth way. 

 Black: Meryl, with the consolidation of hospitals -- and their labs -- what kind of unit growth can Beckman Coulter get? 

 Buchanan: Well, their overall growth in sales has been 5%-6%, and that's in a market that's been growing 2%-3%. What drives it is, No. 1, they've gained some market share. No. 2, new tests are really the thing. For example, they'll come out in the second part of '99 with a test for prostate cancer that's much more accurate than the current one; not as many false positives. Very good new tests are what really drives it. And more people getting health care. It's test, test, test. And it's not the number of machines that matters, it's the number of tests. So as long as you have people going to the hospital, getting sick, the tests occur. Beckman Coulter has about 30 million shares out. Revenues in '99 should be about $1.8 billion. Reported EPS should be $3.50-$3.75 a share. We think it'll be the high end. If you add back the goodwill amortization, which is about 85 cents a share, cash EPS will come to $4.35-$4.60. 

 Q: Where is it trading now? 

 Buchanan: Around 54. We started buying it in the low 40s and we've bought stock in the low 50s. The cash EPS we have growing to about $5.25 in the year 2000. So that's an 11-12 multiple on the cash EPSfor what's truly a world-class company. A razor-blade business. We think it should have a P/E closer to 17 or 20, easily. Our target for the end of the year is 75-80. 

 MacAllaster: When you talk about cash earnings, which are not reported earnings, you mean basically reported earnings with depreciation added back in. But don't they have to put depreciation back into the company? 

 Buchanan: No, in this case, what I'm adding back is goodwill amortization, arising from their purchase of Coulter. We only add back goodwill, I do not add back the depreciation. In fact, sometimes we don't even add back all the goodwill. It just depends on the company's spending needs. 

 MacAllaster: This company is selling for 15 times estimated reported earnings. 

 Buchanan: That's the multiple on the reported number. We really look at free cash, and this one has got a lot of extra. 

 My next stock is R.H. Donnelley. It's a spinout. We love spinouts. It was spun out of Dun & Bradstreet in June of '98. It's a good little niche company, basically in the Yellow Pages business. Their major asset is what's really interesting: the right in perpetuity -- forever -- to about half the profits from the sale of Yellow Pages advertising, both print and Internet, in Ameritech's markets in Chicago, the whole state of Illinois and in northern Indiana. It has that right because the original owner of R.H. Donnelley, Ruben H. Donnelley, invented the Yellow Pages. 

 Q: And cut a mean contract. 

 Buchanan: He certainly did, forever. And that was in 1908. RHD and Ameritech have formed a partnership -- I'll get into this because if you open the annual and start reading it, it looks messy. But I'll cut to the chase on the economics. They formed a partnership, it's called DonTech. There's this complicated formula spelling out how the profits are divided. But when you get to the end of it, they basically split the profits 50-50. The profit stream grows 5% a year on average. Holds its own in recessions -- grows even. It is really a beautiful growth bond, an annuity stream, that I would love to own myself. Donnelley also has an agreement with Sprint to sell Yellow Pages advertising in the Las Vegas area and Orlando, both growing markets. They've done a great job, so the earnings from that agreement have been increasing about 8% a year-they get a percentage of the profits. They also have an agreement with Bell Atlantic for the New York City area which dates back to 1909 and expires in 2005 unless they extend it. Here, they're paid a percent of sales. 

 In all these relationships, RHD basically allows the incumbent telephone company to gain the benefits of Donnelley's marketing, publishing and low-cost labor force. That's the deal. In each of the markets, the directory with which Donnelley is affiliated is that of the incumbent local telephone company. They have a commanding market share, you know, it's the best game in town. And for many businesses, the Yellow Pages is really the only advertising they do. It's something they don't cut. 

 Q: Hasn't there been a huge proliferation of me-too Yellow Pages in many markets? 

 Buchanan: There are competing vehicles -- there's a Blue Book, which is distributed locally. But they've been around for a while and Donnelley has still grown in the face of that competition. And although you may use a directory like that sometimesif it's a little smaller and easier to usewhen you are really looking for something, you open the Yellow Pages. Very few businesses will say, okay, I'm just going to advertise in the competing directory that's not all-inclusive. Anyway, we expect Donnelley to report $1.38 of earnings per share for '98, with $1.48 of free cash -- and that $1.48 grows to $1.65 in 1999. The reported EPS will be 10 cents lower, $1.55. The stock has gone up a little recently, it's at roughly 14. R.H. Donnelley is also poised to capture outsourcing by telephone companies in other markets. They've been close to signing a couple of deals, then there has been a takeover announced and the game was off. They've begun selling cable advertising in some test markets, including Orlando, and they tell me that it has been going extremely well. We think Donnelley should trade at a minimum of $21 a share, based on a 13 P/E on their '99 cash EPS. It could be a huge home run if they succeed in some of their business-development efforts -- get a new Bell company as a customer, or if the cable ads take off. 

 Q: How many shares? 


Buchanan: 34 million.
Q: And how much debt?



Buchanan: $485 million. Now, we're not big theme investors, but there
is one group, at least, that really got pummelled in '98. It's just
overdone and many of the companies now are very cheap -- the
specialty-chemicals group. We think the best way to play the sector is
to look for companies in niche businessses, where there is a possibility
of a takeover. One name that we like in the area is ChemFirst, which
makes aniline, fine chemicals and semiconductor cleaning chemicals.
Their EPS in '99 should be about $1.40. They just finished building a
big plant. They have quite a lot of excess depreciation, so if you add
that back, their cash EPS is about $2 a share. This is a $20 stock. The
takeout value is north of $30, and it's an excellent fit with many
chemical companies. We've called around.



Gabelli: How many shares out?



Buchanan: 19 million.



Gabelli: Rohm & Haas just bought LeaRonal. Is this a similar
business?



Buchanan: Some of it is, yes. Rohm & Haas is one of the possible
buyers. LaPorte -- although that stock has come down recently --
Hercules, AlliedSignal, are others. I mean, there are a lot of companies
that have actually expressed interest in it over the years. And the
beauty here is, you do have a catalyst. The company CEO is a guy named
Kelly Williams, who plans to step down as CEO in '99. He owns over a
million shares and he has a long history of creating value for
shareholders.



Another name is Cytec Industries, whose largest single business is
composites for aerospace -- that's about 40% of its earnings. The bulk
of the rest of the business is an array of specialty chemicals serving a
broad group of end users, including the plastics, coatings, mining,
paper and automotive industries. A year ago, the perception was that
aerospace would increase steadily forever and the stock actually traded
in the 50s.



Schafer: Where is it now?



Buchanan: It's now 22, actually got as low as about 18. The
fundamentals of their business have deteriorated somewhat, particularly
on the aerospace side, where demand is going to be flat to down for the
next couple of years. But the stock at its current price has overshot on
the downside. Cytec's '98 earnings should come in at about $2.50 a
share, all of which is free cash. Cytec Monday reported 1998 net of
$2.62 a diluted share, excluding a gain on the sale of a product line.]
For '99, our estimate is $2.70. Both Cytec's balance sheet and its
management are very strong. Because of a restriction related to an issue
of preferred stock that Cytec has out, right now they are not allowed to
do a large buyback. But they've basically asked the owner of the
preferred to allow them to do a bigger buyback. Over the next two weeks,
they should hear -- and probably will be allowed to do it. [Cytex
announced a $100 million buyback on January 25.] It's a very, very
strong company financially.



Q: Listed on the New York Stock Exchange?



Buchanan: It is. There are 43 million shares outstanding. That's it.



Q: Great, Meryl, thanks. John, we somehow suspect you think we've
saved the best ideas for last.



Neff: I won't argue that. I'm more than a little bit in accord with
Barton on the real-estate investment trusts. They did get mauled pretty
good last year. They obviously sold too much stock. They were
overpromoted, and they are in the process of being saved from themselves
in the sense that you've had a bit of credit stringency. I don't mean to
say that they were about to do '90-'91 all over againbuilding
see-through office buildings and hotels.



Gabelli: No, they were just overpaying for existing assets.



Neff: They were trying to. But they have been stopped in mid-stream.
The joy is, in a marketplace where there are no yields available anymore
on stocks of any quality, the REITs not only have excellent yields, but
are actually growing their dividends. They don't knock your eyes out. It
is kind of grind it out, four yards and a cloud of dust, but, what the
hell, it counts. Particularly in a market that's overvalued. I would not
be a retail fan, because I think we are over-stored. So that kind of
leaves out the REITs that own malls and shopping centers and maybe the
outlet malls, for all I know. The hotel REITs are the ones whose stocks
have been destroyed the worst. You had some overexuberance there by the
Patriots [Patriot American Hospitality] and the Starwoods [Starwood
Hotels & Resorts Worldwide] and all. If you could get comfortable,
that's probably where you could make more money. There is a fair bit of
expansion going on out there in the lodging industry, but an untoward
amount of it is in Las Vegas and Orlando, so the rest of it doesn't look
all that bad. Nonetheless, the two areas I've lit upon are office
buildings and apartment buildings. There are lots of other stocks you
could look at in these areas, I'm sure, but we've heard a lot today
about wanting margins of safety and all those good things. These two
stocks strike as me being pretty good anchors to windward: Camden
Property Trust on the apartment side and Brandywine Realty Trust on the
office-building side. Camden is a 7.6% yielder, so an investor gets an
awful good bird-in-the-hand going in. And I would look for maybe 6%-8%
earnings growth -- not into perpetuity, but for as long as you need to
look. So you've got the 7.6% yield plus 6.8% earnings growth. You ought
to bank both those and maybe even a little more, as, of course, the 7.6%
yield comes down to 6 1/2 % or 6%, or whatever. The joy is that the
stock sells at an awfully reasonable multiple of FFO.



Q: Did you say "UFO"?



Neff: No, FFO is funds from operations, the standard measurement of
REIT profitability. It's essentially cash flow. And Camden is selling
for only 7.7 times its '99 funds from operations of around $3.20-$3.30.
REITs' GAAP earnings, of course, tend to be depressed by great big
depreciation charges. So if you look at that, Camden is selling for
about 14 times earnings, instead of 7.7 times FFO. But those buildings
that they're depreciating on their books, if they maintain them -- and
they maintain them out of their income statement -- they'll last a long
time. Witness the Flatiron Building or Rockefeller Center in New York --
many real-estate assets are productive well beyond the period over which
they're depreciated.



Q: In certain locations, anyway.



Neff: Camden's apartments are 51% in Texas, the rest mostly in the
Southeast and a bit in the Midwest. About 16% is in Houston and they do
have a bit in Las Vegas. Those last two markets, from the perspective of
some pundits, are a bit on the overexpanded side. But the case against
Houston is that it's not going to have as much employment growth as it
might otherwise have had, because of oil's price decline. But hell,
Houston diversified away from oil a long time ago. So I like Camden
Property Trust on the apartment side.



Brandywine Realty Trust is an 8.7% yield. They've increased the
dividend about twice a year, although not very much. They recently
raised the annual dividend by four cents, went up to 39 cents from 38
cents quarterly. Again, a growing 8.7% yield is a decent bird-in-hand.
Brandywine is also trading at 7.3 times '99 FFO. It is a bit of a
parochial recommendation for me, because its critical mass is in greater
Philadelphia. It's in the midAtlantic states, too, as well as in
Philadelphia.



Q: Delaware?



Neff: Yes, and also down into Virginia and a little bit up into
northern New Jersey. Those areas look to be in pretty good shape. So
Brandywine with an 8.7% yield and Camden with a 7.6% yield going in seem
to make some sense. Now, I don't mean to say those are the only ones to
buy. There are probably lots of other good ones, too. And you probably
don't have to be a rocket scientist to analyze the REITs, either.
Actually being able to look at office buildings and apartments is
probably pretty comfortable analysis.



Gabelli: But why not just buy real estate in corporate form, at half
the valuation, if you fundamentally like real estate-are you just trying
to find a defensive posture?



Neff: Well, Barton compared the REITs to a growth bond [Roundtable,
Part I, January 18], and I think that's a fair way to look at it. I'm
looking at the yield part of the return on a REIT going up a bit, while
you also bank whatever their growth in earnings is. I don't mean to say
that it's an absolute lay-up, but it's pretty close. It's almost a
no-brainer. And there aren't very many no-brainers out there. They are
trading at a bit of a discount and they are ongoing commercial
enterprises, so the REIT shares seem to be kind of intelligent
investments in this kind of market.



The construction, home-building marketplace is another one that seems
to be positioned to have more legs than the market is giving it credit
for. We've got 30-year fixed mortgage rates down to 6 3/4% and that
makes housing very affordable. Housing has classically been cyclical
and, obviously, it's one's biggest expenditure -- for most people, the
consumer expenditure of a lifetime. On the other hand, the desire for
one's own piece of turf beats lustily in almost all American hearts,
it's part of Americana, if you will. Two-thirds of U.S. household units
now own their own homes. It isn't really hard to work buying a house for
the first time into your budget, because the mortgage payment is a
substitute for the rent you are already paying. Of course, the housing
market isn't comprised only of entry-level homes. There are also
move-ups. And the move-up is a big deal, too. It's the way we express
ourselves now, in terms of making it. There's a national builder who is
putting homes up next to my country club. These houses run
$500,000-$600,000; they average 5,000 or 6,000 square feet -- and
they're squeezed onto third-of-an-acre lots. But see, it's your castle.
It's your expression that "I've made it."



Gabelli: It's the golf course that they want.



Neff: Actually, the builder gets another 75 grand for the houses next
to the course -- and those are on half-acre lots. But these houses are
so wide that there's not much of a backyard, even then.



Buchanan: But they can sneak out at night and play golf.



Neff: That's right. Well, actually some of the kids have a thriving
business, selling the golf balls that land in their yards back to club
members.



Q: Creative capitalism, grass-roots style.



Neff: Owens Corning is a beneficiary of this extended housing cycle.
The stock is at 35, they will report about $3.50 for 1998 [Last Tuesday,
it posted net of $3.59 a diluted share, before special items.] and
something like $4.60 in the new year. So it's trading at 7.6 times real
earnings. They've gotten something like four price increases in
insulation-grade glass fiber, three in roofing, in the past year. They
also make composites -- that's what they call it -- the reinforced fiber
you are familiar with in Corvettes and the like. A lot of that composite
material also is used as the substrate in integrated circuits, and that
market is kind of tough, although at some point, it'll get better. They
just -- hopefully [knock wood] -- made their last settlement on asbestos
liability suits. They never ever made asbestos -- produced it -- they
just distributed it. But they made a $1.2 billion settlement. They took
it out of the courts, where it was just hamstrung. Now, insurance will
pay part of that $1.2 billion, but the settlement will take their book
value down to a deficit. They have no book value. So it's not exactly
the cleanest balance sheet in all of America. On the other hand, they
cover interest charges by about 3 1/2 times, after tax, so it's not all
that bad. And it's trading at only 7.6 times earnings. This is an
aggressive management, accomplishing what it set out to do. In this kind
of market, that's not bad.



Q: What else?



Neff: Also in this same general field, I want to mention three home
builders of some stature. Again, as befitting the cyclical nature of the
industry, I wouldn't say that the new year is going to be any better for
housing than the year just finished. Backlogs are up, so maybe your
sales will be a little better. But the homebuilders are pushing prices
up. Remember, I mentioned the 4%-5% price increases that they are
getting. Well, getting those price hikes helps their bottom lines,
particularly in that there are some pretty good SG&A [selling, general
and administration] economies to be had. The good guys, if you will,
with some market size-say, over $1 billion in market cap -- like Pulte,
D.R. Horton and Centex are selling at an astronomic 11-12 times
earnings. But there is another layer down in size in the industry. And
those stocks are selling for around 6 1/2-7 1/2 times earnings.



Beazer Homes USA, which I mentioned last year, would be one of those.
It's trading at about 23 7/8, earned $2.67 a share in the year finished
September. I've got them at $3.60 this year, which will be a combination
of some of the elements I just mentioned, like a decent sales increase,
a lower percentage of SG&A, and when they increase prices, they are
pushing the gross margin up a little bit. Also, Beazer just acquired
another property in D.C. that will add about 40-50 cents of earnings.
The fiscal first quarter, that's the December quarter that just ended,
will probably show about a 30-cent improvement over a year ago. So you
are probably talking $3.60 or something like that of fiscal '99
earnings. On a $24 stock, that's 6.6 times. Beazer doesn't have a very
big capitalization at all and it has a convertible debt issue
outstanding, so I'm giving you fully diluted earnings. The convertible
is at a point where they are going to call it. That will increase the
float a bit, which will actually be a positive. They are in the
Southeast and strung across the Southwest. It was a spinoff out of
Hanson, the British conglomerate. Beazer is just kind of a decent
company -- and improving. And it's selling at book value -- all three of
these are trading near book value. I'm not a big book-value fan, but
these are fairly liquid enterprises, and trading at book means something
when you have the average stock selling at five times book.



And these bigger homebuilders have some economic advantages. No. 1,
they can get credit in a marketplace when it gets kind of tough for the
smaller stick builders. No. 2, they have some economies of size, not
great, but some, in building a home. Also, the top 10 homebuilders --
and all of these are in the top 10 -- have negotiating ability with the
Owens Cornings of the world to maybe get a little friendlier spiff
[discounts] on their great big volume purchases. And they have no Asian
exposure.



Q: Don't these housing stocks have huge exposure, though, to the
wealth effect? So if the stock market falters



Neff: Certainly it would have some effect on the Hamptons, but I'm
not talking Hamptons here. This is honest-to-God America.



Q: But Main Street is into stocks like never before.



Neff: Well, obviously, if the economy fell apart, you would be in
trouble. But something like Beazer has an average sale of about
$150,000.



Gabelli: Do they land-bank?



Neff: They have options. Not very many of the builders go out and buy
land themselves. Instead, they buy options, maybe a three-year supply or
so. So they do benefit a little bit maybe on the margin side from buying
land at yesterday's prices. Eventually, that's going to catch up with
them. One that is really reaching down in marketability is M/I
Schottenstein Homes. Still, these stocks are all traded on the Big
Board. Schottenstein's cap, though, would only be about $200 million-and
it's about 20% family-owned. Incidentally, each of these smaller
homebuilders I'm mentioning could be a candidate for an acquisition by
one of the biggies. A couple of years ago, I was pushing Continental
Homes in this venue. Well, that turned out to be a triple. Part of the
reason was that D.R. Horton bought it; part of it was obviously the
whole move it had in this bull market.



Black: John, Beazer did a stupid thing financially this year. That's
why I unloaded it. The stock was at 27 and they did a private placement
to Smith Barney Salomon. I almost killed the senior vice president of
finance.



Neff: But that's in the stock price.



Q: What did they do?



Neff: They sold stock.



Black: They had negative free cash and they needed to raise equity to
strengthen the balance sheet. Instead of going out to the marketplace,
where they could have laid something down at 35 with a low coupon, they
did a private placement $5 in the hole and diluted everybody else out. I
was outraged.



Schafer: Public stock?



Neff: Yes. They had bought stock in earlier from a family member at a
lower price. Scott is quite right, although the interesting thing is
that the price they sold it at is the current price. It may have been a
bad deal, but it's the current price.



Black: I think they are good builders, but they're financially very
naive.



Neff: Fair enough. U.S. Home is the third one that I like -- at 34,
with $4.60 of earnings in prospect for '99. That's a little bigger cap,
it's about $400 million. The company had a real troubled past; as a
matter of fact, it was in bankruptcy 15 or so years ago. But they've
come on and they are strung across the Sun Belt. These guys I'm
mentioning are all in pretty good locations. It seems to me that, in
this kind of market -- in other words, all consumer cyclicals eventually
get the market's attention as they keep turning the earnings in. And I'm
talking about these having pretty eye-catching increases in earnings in
'99 and there isn't an awful lot of stuff out there in that category.
And, of course, 6 1/2, 7, 7.4 times earnings is not exactly paying an
arm and a leg, nor is paying book value and all those good things.



Q: Okay, John, what looks good when you leave homes?



Neff: A stock that I mentioned a couple of years ago. Unfortunately,
it's up 15% in the past week [January 4-8], but it's in another one of
those consumer-cyclical sectors, namely the airlines. The market or, if
you will, industry pundits are all worried that the increase in capacity
in '99 will be in excess of the increase in traffic. The traffic
increase isn't going to be great. It's going to be maybe 3%-4%. But
there are an awful lot of old 727s, of old DC-9s, that are beyond their
times and they'll simply retire those. They should have been retired
two-four years ago. So I see a pretty good match between growth in
capacity and growth in demand. And that the airlines will crank out kind
of decent numbers. They've done a fairly good job. Delta is trading at a
9.2 times multiple. Again how many single-digit P/Es are there around?
It has a good balance sheet; got a new CEO not very long ago. Delta Air
Lines has been doing a lot of the right things. They're importantly
nonunion, not altogether, but importantly. That gives them a little more
flexibility. They're home folks. They've repelled the likes of ValuJet
[now AirTran Holdings]. Remember, ValuJet was a big threat and a big
deal a couple of years ago, but had that unfortunate accident in the
Everglades and has never been the same since.



MacAllaster: There is a lot of leverage in the lower price of fuel.



Neff: Oh sure, but if they get a fuel-price increase, all the
airlines will put through a price increase, it seems to me. Also, Delta,
has taken on the likes of AirTran now, with Delta Express. They've
gotten concessions from pilots and they compete on some of those
short-haul routes, a little bit like Southwest Airlines. You know, if
you've got a choice when flying at the friendly price, with the
admittedly barebones service and all, who are you going to fly on? On
Delta? Or on United, which has one too? Or on some of these carriers
that you have never heard of-which have planes that they've bought from
Turkish Airlines or someone.



Q: AirTran is being talked about as a merger target for Virgin
Atlantic.



Neff: What would they call it? Dare I ask?



Q: Don't.



Neff: I just know AirTran has had an awful lot of trouble getting
their traffic back. They're still flying with low load factors. The last
I knew, the stock was around 5 -- that was the same ValuJet stock that
got to what, 20?



On the other side of the market, I've got a short that's kind of
cowardly, I think -- the Nasdaq 100.



Q: You're going to try that one again?



Neff: This index is Nasdaq's 100 largest caps. Apparently, it's the
only Nasdaq index you can short. You can't short the entire Nasdaq. But
you know, the Dow was up 16% last year, the S&P was up 26% and the
Nasdaq was up 39%. What do you think the 100 largest caps were up last
year -- some of you know, obviously -- 85%. Now, is that getting ahead
of itself potentially? And, not too surprisingly, the top five caps
accounted for about 39% of the weighting in that index. Microsoft-good
companies, I'll give you that.



MacAllaster: People here were shorting that a year ago.



Neff: I'm talking about now.



MacAllaster: But they were shorting it a year ago.



Neff: They're probably a little flattened at the moment. But
Microsoft, Intel, Cisco, MCI WorldCom and Dell are the five that are 39%
of the Nasdaq 100. Incidentally, all five of those are in the S&P 500 --
and make up 9.3% of the S&P. The Nasdaq 100's cap now is over $2
trillion. It's about 19% of all equities in this country. And, of
course, if you go down to the 10th largest, that's Yahoo and the 11th is
Amazon.com. A couple of months ago Amazon passed Borders and Barnes &
Noble in market cap.



Gabelli: Passed them! In one day of trading-pick any day this year --
the increase in Amazon's market cap was greater than the entire market
caps of those companies!



Neff: Exactly. Subsequently, Amazon has passed Sears Roebuck in
market cap. Think about that for a minute. Now it has almost twice the
cap of Sears Roebuck. Where does this all end? I don't know. But, it
seems to me that shorting the index futures is kind of a cowardly way to
bet that it does end. I had a friend who wanted to short Amazon about a
month and a half ago -- but he couldn't borrow the stock.



Gabelli: Lucky him. He saved himself 400%. The stock at the beginning
of this year was at 300 and change. It has since split 3-for-1 and is at
180 today. In six trading days. So three times 180 is 540, 300 to 540 is
80%. There were 50 million shares pre-split. Its market cap has gone
from $15 billion to over $25 billion.



Neff: Books are a low-margin business. Barnes & Noble is on the
Internet. Can Borders be far behind?



Gabelli: But if I take 10 shares of Amazon, I can buy Lillian Vernon
and solve all my logistic problems. I can buy this and this and this. If
I were them, I'd run awfully hard to make a lot of wonderfully
interesting acquisitions.



Neff: Do you know that in the most recent quarter, their sales were
triple a year ago. But their deficit was also higher than a year ago. It
reminds you of the old wheeze about the used-car dealer: He lost $100 on
each car, but he made it up on volume!



Now, where does this all this silliness end, I don't know. But at
some point you get to the last buyer. I can't quite role play who is
doing this, you know. Institutions aren't supposed to be in there,
although I'll bet the momentum guys and camp followers have come in.
Then you've got all these people on computers, mindlessly buying and
selling intraday for $9 and scraping a couple of hundred bucks out.



Gabelli: Somebody holds $28 billion worth of Amazon today.



Neff: At the end of each day, somebody does.



Gabelli: They're not my customers; I wish they were.



Neff: Obviously, the stemwinders still have half of it or
thereabouts.



Q: The stemwinders?



Neff: The CEO, the founder -- the insiders. You don't want to short
Amazon, but selling the futures seems to me a cowardly bet against the
mania. As sure as we're sitting here, one of these great companies in
this index is going to trip a little bit. When that happens, everybody
and his brother is going to try and get out of the stock in one day. And
then it will have some effect on the rest.



Q: So you are sticking your neck out?



Neff: I already have. Don't look too good at the moment! Although the
position is only about a four-week vintage and I keep averaging up.
That's it, except that I still think Lyondell Chemical and Georgia Gulf
will have their day. The good part, if you will, of the Asian collapse
is that it cut off all inordinate expansion about 12 months ago, and
there are now a lot of pipes sticking up out of the ground. So the PVC
business, which is breaking even now, is probably going to be getting
close to replacement-cost pricing and a decent return on equity in 12-24
months.



Buchanan: What price is Lyondell trading at?



Neff: Well, Lyondell is almost a call. It's around 17.



Buchanan: Weren't they going around and trying to sell stock?



Neff: That's the call part of it. They're under contract. They bought
Arco Chemical for something short of $6 billion.



Gabelli: For 57 3/4 a share.



Neff: Which is a pretty decent company and has a very dominant
position in propylene oxide and has good cash flow. But Lyondell's
bottom line is going to be touch and go for a while, but they'll come
out of it. I think what they'll do, Meryl, is renegotiate with the banks
and postpone selling that preferred until they can get some recognition
in the marketplace for the enterprise. And there's been some pretty good
consolidation in the industry. Lyondell has put together ethylene and
polyethylene and all into a joint venture with Millennium Chemical and
Occidental Petroleum. Somewhere out there, Lyondell is going to earn
four or five bucks.



Gabelli: The papers are consolidating, the oils, the chemicals --
what do you make of it, John?



Neff: All these industries are going to consolidate. Steels are
consolidating. Talk about low-cap stocks, some are single digits now.
Obviously, you are going to have to go through a bit of a cathartic
there. Who is going to be buying them? I don't know. But Inland was
purchased by an overseas company at a friendly price. Can LTV and
Bethlehem and the rest be too far behind? Well, the overseas guys are
hurting a bit too, so you're talking about what currency are you going
to get. They would be a little hard to LBO.



Q: What Mario really wants to know about is the mutual-fund industry.



Neff: Certainly, Franklin has been doing a fair bit, and I think
you'll see some others. You read about the guys in The Wall Street
Journal, you know as much as I do. Strong and some of the others seem
susceptible, and it makes some sense. Of course, the monoliths get just
that much more, oh, I shouldn't say powerful, but impressive. Look at
Vanguard; it was only 20-some odd years ago that Jack Bogle was fired as
the CEO of Wellington Management and the funds took him on. That's when
Forbes, in its infinite wisdom, wrote an article headlined "A Plague on
Both Houses?" and recommended that shareholders vote with their feet.
Vanguard's assets were then $1.3 billion; today they're over $400
billion. Think about that, $400 billion. "A Plague on Both Houses!"



Q: We appreciate your bringing that up, John. And we appreciate all
of you, for your contributions to this Roundtable. Thanks.



---
                Felix Zulauf's Picks
 US      US    1/11/99 International International 1/11/99
Symbol Exchange Close     Symbol       Exchange     Close
  LONG
 3-Mo Sterling Futures
 --      --       --        --           LIFFE        94.93
 Telecom Italia
 TI     NYSE    9 11/8      TI           Milan        7.896
 Telecom Italia Mobile
 TLEBF  OTC     4 11/16     TIM          Milan        6.404
 Hellenic Telecom
 OTE    NYSE   15 1/16      HTO          Athens    GRD 8480
 Global Telesystems
 GTSG   NNM    63 1/2
 Pryca
  --     --     --          PRY          Madrid      21.07
 Rinascente
  --     --     --          RI           Milan       9.244
 Argentaria
  --     --     --          ARG          Madrid       22.2
  SHORT
 Japanese Gov't Bonds
  --     --     --           --            --    Yen100.56
 Credit Suisse
 CSGKY   OTC    41 7/8      GSGN         Zurich SFr 234 1/2
 Banco Santander
 STD    NYSE    18 5/8      SAN          Madrid      16.65
 SAP
 SAP    NYSE    33 1/2      SAP          Frankfurt   310.5
 Ericsson
 ERICY  NNM     26 5/8      LMEA         Stockholm SEK 220
---
                   Meryl Buchanan's Picks
                                            1/11/99
 Stock                Symbol   Exchange      Close
 Stride Rite           SRR       NYSE        8 5/16
 Aviall                AVL       NYSE       11 1/16
 Beckman Coulter       BEC       NYSE       54 5/16
 R.H. Donnelley Corp.  RHD       NYSE       15 1/16
 ChemFirst             CEM       NYSE       20 3/16
 Cytec                 CYT       NYSE       23 7/8
---
                        John Neff's Picks
                                              1/11/99
 Stock                Symbol      Exchange     Close
 LONG
 Camden Prpty Trust    CPT          NYSE       26 1/4
 Brandywine Rlty Trust BDN          NNM        17 9/16
 Owens Corning         OWC          NNM        35
 Beazer Homes          BZH          NYSE       23 1/8
 U.S. Home             UH           NYSE       33 1/2
 Schottenstein Homes   MHO          NYSE       21 3/8
 Delta Air Lines       DAL          NNM        58
 Lyondell Chemical     LYO          NYSE       17 9/16
 Georgia Gulf          GGC          NYSE       17 9/16
  SHORT
 Nasdaq 100            NDX          CME        2000.18


Document b000000020010825dv21000i5

Search Summary

 Text((“profit*” same “warning*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”))) OR ((“profit*” same “fall*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“headwind” same “profit*”) (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”)))   Date02/01/1999 to 02/28/1999   SourceAll Sources   AuthorAll Authors   CompanyAll Companies   SubjectCorporate/Industrial News   IndustryAll Industries   RegionUnited States   LanguageEnglish   Results Found30   Timestamp27 March 2018 8:50  
 Page 28 of 28     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

