 
•	 Mortgage Bank First Tennessee's Shares Slide On  Profit Warning
•	  MONEYLINE 
•	  Alcatel Will Buy Newbridge Networks for $7.1 Billion 
•	  Worldwide Advertising & Media Digest - Feb 22. 
•	  MONEYLINE; Microsoft CEO 
•	  Market queries wisdom of Alcatel buying Newbridge. 
•	 RESEARCH ALERT - Cambridge Tech target  cut  to $35.
•	  Cambridge Tech sees losses in first half of 2000. 
•	  Managers & Managing: Major U.S. Companies Register Surge Of 31% in Final Quarter Net Income --- About 65% of Companies Exceeded...
•	  Europe carmakers to see mixed results from sales boom. 
•	 RESEARCH ALERT-Maytag  cut  to market perform.
•	 Bob Evans Issues 4th-Quarter  Profit Warning ; 3rd Quarter Tops Estimates
•	 Maytag Shares Down 11% On  Profit Warning , Customer News
•	 BUSINESS 
•	 Asian assets  cut  as C-C Amatil eyes 2000.
•	  Dell says parts situation improving. 
•	  U.S. stocks expected to open slightly higher. 
•	  Keane Reports 4th-Quarter Loss On Charge; Sees Business Improving 
•	  Dell CFO Says 4th Quarter Gross Margins At 19.2%, Down From  Year-Ago 
•	  Daily briefing 
•	  Integrated Electrical Reports 1st-Quarter Net Income Fell 71% 
•	 Profit Warning  Sends Nike Stock Plunging
•	  Raytheon Outlines Strategy for Regaining Fiscal Momentum 
•	  Market Watchers Wary Of Dell Computer's Slowing Growth Rate 
•	 Newell Rubbermaid shares tumble after  profit warning .
•	  Louisville, Ky.-Based Insurer Humana Names New CEO, Sells Unit 
•	  MONEYLINE; CNNfn 
•	 FOCUS-AnnTaylor off 20 percent after  profit warning .
•	  RESEARCH ALERT-Merrill cuts AnnTaylor rating. 
•	 Integrated Electrical Shares Tumble Following  Profit Warning
•	  Blue Circle eyes U.S. Southdown bid-paper. 



 Mortgage Bank First Tennessee's Shares Slide On  Profit Warning 

352 words
29 February 2000
19:13
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Shares of First Tennessee National Corp. plunged to a 52-week low a day after the mortgage bank restated its full-year 1999 earnings and warned that its first-quarter earnings would fall nine to 12 cents a share below year-ago results. 

 Memphis-based First Tennessee (FTN) late Monday said it restated its full-year 1999 earnings to $1.85 a share from $1.91 following an accounting change related to two fourth-quarter transactions related to mortgage loans held for sale at FT Mortgage Companies. The company said the change resulted in a $12.3 million reduction in pretax earnings. 

 First Tennessee said it expects rising interest rates and a related drop in business to result in first-quarter earnings of between 28 cents and 31 cents a share, compared with 40 cents a share in the year-ago period. 

 This includes a $5 million loss from planned sales of certain mortgage loans originated before the recent rise in interest rates, First Tennessee said. 

 In addition, the company said it expects 2000 earnings to be 8% to 10% higher than 1999 earnings, putting them in the range of $2 to $2.04 a share. The mean estimate of 17 analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial is for full-year 2000 earnings of $2.15 a share. 

 The bleak earnings forecasts prompted some analysts to slash earnings expectations and lower their ratings on First Tennessee's stock. According to Reuters, J.P. Morgan & Co. cut its rating on First Tennessee shares to "market perform" from "buy." 

 Meanwhile, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lowered its 2000 earnings estimate to $2 a share from $2.15 a share and its 2001 estimate to $2.20 a share from $2.45 a share, Reuters reported. 

 First Tennessee is the holding company for First Tennessee Bank, which provides mortgage banking services through more than 300 locations in Tennessee, Mississippi and Arkansas. 

 (Compiled from Dow Jones Newswires and other sources) 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dw2t014om


 Business 
 MONEYLINE 

 Stuart Varney, Willow Bay, Susan Lisovicz, Fred Katayama, Greg Clarkin, Wolf Blitzer, Bob Beard, Steve Young, Bruce Francis, Peter Viles, Casey Wian 
8,320 words
28 February 2000
23:30
CNNfn: Moneyline News Hour
MNYL
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 STUART VARNEY, CNNFNfn ANCHOR, MONEYLINE: Tonight on MONEYLINE: The Dow back from the brink in a scorching rally. Is it turnaround time for those blue chips? 

 WILLOW BAY, CNNFNfn ANCHOR, MONEYLINE: A major shuffle in Citigroup`s (URL: http://www.citi.com/) three-man power clique: John Reed retires, leaving Sandy Weill in control. But what about Bob? 

 VARNEY: And wheeling and dealing at the Wireless 2000 Convention in New Orleans. We`ll have a live report and hear from one key player at AOL (URL: http://www.aol.com/) headquarters: president Bob Pittman. 

 ANNOUNCER: This is the MONEYLINE NEWS HOUR. Reporting tonight, from Los Angeles, Willow Bay, and from New York, Stuart Varney. 

 VARNEY: Good evening everyone. From New York, I`ll have the details on today`s much-needed comeback for those battered blue chips. 

 BAY: From Los Angeles, I`ll talk with a man who manages $6 billion. We`ll ask him whether today`s rally was just a pause in a broader sell- off -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: Thanks, Willow. 

 Today`s Dow rebound may indeed be temporary, but for now at least, Big Board traders are not complaining. After watching the Dow lose nearly 10 percent over the past month, investors came back into the blue chips in a big way. The Dow today soared nearly 300 points at its peak. It did fall off in the last hour of trading, but the index still gained 176 on the day, back above 10000, and its fourth- best session of the year. It`s a short year thus far. 

 The new economy hotshots on the Nasdaq took a hit, though the damage could have been worse. After falling more than 120 points, the  index ended down just 12. 

 Susan Lisovicz looks at whether the old economy stocks can sustain today`s powerful rally. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 SUSAN LISOVICZ, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): After a six-week slide and last week`s dip that took the Dow below 10000, investors finally took a second looked at beaten down blue chips. Investors raced in with such force that trading curbed kicked in midday as the Dow soared more than 294 points. 

 Among the Dow stocks caught up in the rally, American Express (URL: http://www.americanexpress.com/) soaring almost 8 points, PC maker Hewlett-Packard (URL: http//www.hp.com/) up more than 4 and Procter & Gamble (URL: http://www.pg.com/) adding more than 3. 

 The buzz heard around the floor was "sector rotation," and those back in favor included retailers, personal care, hotels and telephones. 

 LARRY WACHTEL, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: In terms of the Dow, it got very oversold, so it bounced today. I don`t know how long lasting the bounce is going to be. But I think we`re inhaling distance of that blue chip bottom. 

 LISOVICZ: Tech stocks, which have pushed the Nasdaq to recent highs, were shunned most of the day. Some analysts are concerned that investors are playing craps when it comes to their nest eggs. 

 DICK HOEY, DREYFUS CORP: My main concern is excessive speculation in low-grade investments, in speculative stocks without revenues, without earnings and without a business model. The public has let itself get drawn into gambling with its real money. You shouldn`t gamble with your rent money. 

 LISOVICZ: With more than four out of five S&P stocks down 20 percent this year and a looming Fed ready to pounce interest rates at the first whiff of inflation, investors are asking where to go from here. 

 JOHN MANLEY, CITIBANK SALOMON SMITH BARNEY: You want to buy big- cap, high-quality stocks that have good earnings growth and positive earnings surprises. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 LISOVICZ: Despite today`s triple-digit rally on the Dow, the index finished 100 points off high, and decliners narrowly beat advancers on the Big Board. The Dow remains in correction territory, and as one trader put it, the down trend has not gone away -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: All right, Susan Lisovicz, right there at the Big Board. 

 BAY: A closer look now at a rocky session on the Nasdaq. Even though the 

 index pared its losses by day`s end, there was still plenty of high-profile losers. Many of the biggest movers on the Nasdaq are based here in the West. New economy leaders like Cisco Systems (URL: http://www.cisco.com/) , eBay (URL: http://www.ebay.com/) , Yahoo! (URL: http://www.yahoo.com/) , Amazon (URL: http://www.amazon.com/) and Immunex  (URL: http://www.immunex.com/) were all slumped. But there were winners, including Qualcomm (URL: http://www.qualcomm.com/) , Redback Networks (URL: http://www.redbacknetworks.com/) , which serves telecom companies, the cancer researcher EntreMed (URL: http://www.entremed.com/) , and Superconductor Technologies , which plans to unveil cell phone technology later this week at the Wireless 2000 convention. We`ll go live to that convention later in the show. 

 And in an encouraging sign for the bull market, especially for techs, investors plowed money into stocks last month at a rate never seen before. Money flowing into stocks, mutual funds reached a record in January -- nearly $40 billion, an astonishing level, that according to the Investmenbt Committee Instititute. And the breakdown shows why techs have soared while blue chips have slumped. Huge gains in agressive growth and sector funds, which include technology and international funds. But there were huge declines in growth and income funds, which include more old-fashioned investments. 

 VARNEY: Consumer spending overall in that period, a key engine of economic growth, remained strong last month, that`s according to the latest numbers from the Commerce Department. But for the first time since October, consumers earned faster than they spent. Income shot up 7/10 percent; spending gained 5/10 percent. The inflation indicator was up just 2/10 percent, and that was less than expected. That is the indicator, but the way, that Alan Greenspan recently  said he was watching closely, but the good news did not help the bond market. The 10- and 30-year issues both lost a half point or more, as stock market gains lured investors away. 

 For more now on today`s blue-chip bounce here is Gary Kaminsky of Neuberger Berman. 

 Gary, welcome to MONEYLINE. 

 GARY KAMINSKY, NEUBERGER BERMAN: Good evening. 

 VARNEY: There still is a tale of two markets, isn`t there? Old economy stocks generally on the downside, technology, new economy stocks on the upside. When do they converge? 

 KAMINSKY: Well, today might have been the beginning of some physics of an equilibrium trying to be reached by some of the money coming out of those stocks and into the blue chip names, the Dow names. But they don`t necessarily ever have to get back to the equilibrium where they were, because the world has changed, the new economy is for real, the divergence that started to take place six months ago is going to continue because of the things that have been put in place. 

 VARNEY: You would be overweighted in technology stocks. I mean, we just saw what, nearly $40 billion go into stocks in January, through mutual funds, most of that into the tech sector. You`d be overweighted there still? 

 KAMINSKY: Well, we have continued to be overweighted in the technology sector for some time now. We are diversified. We remain diversified in our group, and we stayed overweight in technology and telecommunications, because those really are the growth areas in this economy. 

 VARNEY: There is a huge shift in capital going on, isn`t there, the likes of which we`ve almost never seen before in recent years, surely? 

 KAMINSKY: Well, absolutely. But it makes sense. I mean, you are seeing an incredible redeployment of capital by those companies that are able to use it better. Those are the technology names. The return on investment for a company to build out software, or database or technology is significantly higher for them than if building a new plant or expanding their existing manufacturing capacities. It`s as simple as that. It makes more sense. It`s a higher ROI -- return on investment -- for companies to go out and increase their technology spending. They get a better payback right now. 

 VARNEY: Which sector -- I mean, technology is really a broad area. Which sector do you like best going forward? 

 KAMINSKY: Well, we`re just -- we`re in software, we`re in telecommunications, we`re in the big names, in Intel and Cisco. You know, we`ll continue to stay invested in those names. But it`s important... 

 VARNEY: Would you come up a little on a stock like Cisco? I mean, it`s had an incredible run. 

 KAMINSKY: Well, no, because we can`t time the market. Nobody is smart enough to time the market. Those thought they were taking profits in Cisco a year ago feel like fools today. It`s impossible to time the market. The important thing is to remain diversified, find other names outside of technology so that you are not overweighted in just one specific area, although it`s been the hot area debate. 

 VARNEY: It sure has. OK, Gary Kaminsky, we thank you very for joining us today. 

 KAMINSKY: You got it. 

 VARNEY: Thanks, Gary. 

 All right, let`s check in now with some of MONEYLINE`s other reporters for a look at the stories they`re working on. 

 We begin with Fred Katayama -- Fred. 

 FRED KATAYAMA, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: Well, Stuart, a new report out today confirms what many Americans have been feeling: They`re paying more for gas than ever before. Will surging oil prices hurt economic growth? I`ll have the answers. 

 GREG CLARKIN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: I`m Greg Clarkin. 

 Wall Street said it couldn`t last, and it hasn`t. The powersharing marriage between two of the most powerful men on Wall Street ends. I`ll tell you why John Reed is leaving Sandy Weill and Citicorp behind. 

 STEVE YOUNG, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: I`m Steve Young, at the wireless 2000 Convention in New Orleans, where more than a dozen deals were signed today, but as I`ll explain, while the U.S. pioneered cell phone technology, now it`s behind the curve -- Willow. 

 BAY: Thanks, Steve. 

 Also coming up on MONEYLINE, two retail giants join forces with a software trailblazer in a major b-to-b play. 

 And Republican John McCain slams the religious right. Wolf Blitzer joins us later to tell us about the hottest fight in campaign 2000. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Despite a down day for the Nasdaq, several stocks managed to hit 52-week highs on that exchange, and they include: CIENA (URL: http://www.ciena.com/) , Celgene (URL: http://www.celgene.com) , Centra Software (URL: http://www.centra.com/) , Entremed, and Research In Motion (URL: http://www.rim.net/) . 

 DaimlerChrysler (URL: http://www.daimlerchrysler.com) surged today after reporting record 1999 revenues. The automaker said profits jumped 16 percent last year to nearly $6 billion, driven by strong sales in Europe and in North America. And the company said it was considering an Asia acquisition to take advantage of the region`s recovery. The stock jumped 2 1/4 points after the shares gained more than 2 percent in Frankfurt. 

 ComCast (URL: http://www.comcast.com/) dipped after the company announced a $180 million operational loss for the quarter. But cash flow, and that`s a key measure for a media company, it rose to more than a half billion dollars, and analysts said the cable operator`s outlook looked favorable. The stock edged down nearly a quarter point. 

 BAY: In tonight`s MONEYLINE "Tech Watch," another old-line business goes 

 online. Two of the world`s largest retailers today entered the red-hot B-to-B sector, just days after the big three automakers made a similar push. Sears and Paris-based Carrefour are creating the first global business to business online exchange for the retail industry, using Oracle`s technology. The deal boosted shares of Sears more than 1, while Oracle fell 2 after gaining $9 on Friday. 

 Bruce Francis has more. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 BRUCE FRANCIS, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Oracle (URL: http://www.oracle.com/) wants to do for retailers what it`s doing for car makers, use the Internet to slash the cost of purchasing. French retail giant Carrefour and number-two U.S. chain Sears (URL: http://www.sears.com/) are joining Oracle to form Global Net Exchange. Oracle says the technology can cut 10-15 percent out of existing costs. 

 RAY LANE, PRES. & CEO, ORACLE: There`s a lot of excess inventory because suppliers don`t have good planning information. They don`t have good capacity planning and information about demands. They also have very inefficient buying processes. 

 FRANCIS: It`s a story that is spreading throughout industries worldwide. Medical supplies, petroleum, water, even services like trucking are being traded over Internet-based systems. 

 Forrester Research (URL: http://www.forrester.com/) believes that business-to-business e-commerce will soar to $1.3 trillion by 2003. Retailers can benefit, Forrester believes, because there are so many suppliers. BRUCE TEMPKIN, FORRESTER RESEARCH: In retail, the supply base is fairly fragmented, so there isn`t -- there`s a pretty good opportunity to save a lot of money and cut processing inefficiencies by using the Net in easy marketplaces. 

 FRANCIS: As with the parts and supplies exchange that will serve the big three automakers, the Sears-Carrefour-Oracle system will ultimately be an independent company open to other retailers. Oracle says the invitations go out tomorrow. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 FRANCIS: Included on the recipient list, number one retailer Wal*Mart (URL: http://www.wal-mart.com/) . But experts think that Wal-Mart is unlikely to join since it has been a pioneer in using high-tech purchasing and they might want to keep their distance from their competitors -- Willow. 

 BAY: Bruce Francis reporting, thanks, Bruce. 

 For the day`s other big tech stories, and for quotes on your favorite tech stocks, log on to CNNfn.com -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: All right, Willow. 

 Coming up on MONEYLINE: gas prices, going to tell you about that, they hit a record high, and we keep on driving, don`t we? So just ahead, we`ll consider how high can gas go before the U.S. economy hits the brakes? We`ll be back. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: In tonight`s MONEYLINE "Movers": EchoStar (URL: http://www.echostar.com) climbed 2 1/4 after the satellite communications company announced a two-for-one stock split. American International Group up more than 3 1/2. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter (URL: http://www.msdw.com/) upgraded the insurance company to a strong buy. RF Micro Devices (URL: http://www.rfmd.com/) jumped nearly 24. Qualcomm says it will use RF Micro`s radio transmission chips in its wireless technology. And Conexant Systems (URL: http://www.conexant.com/) tumbled more than 18 after SG Cowan downgraded the chipmaker on concerns about increased competition in the network and wireless industries. 

 VARNEY: In other companies, some other ones making news for us, Columbia Energy (URL: http://www.columbiaenergygroup.com/)  finally consented to a merger bid from NiSource (URL: http://www.nisource.com/) . Columbia agreeing to a $6 billion buyout eight months after NiSource launched a hostile bid, the deal created the biggest natural gas company east of the Rockies, with more than 4 million customers. Columbia stock up more than 2, NiSource slumped more than 2 1/4. 

 H.J. Heinz (URL: http://www.heinz.com/) , known for its 57 varieties, is making a big investment in baby food, buying the holding company that owns Beech Nut . No word on terms of that deal. 

 Then there is the White House, it said it would request nearly a half billion dollars in additional funding for Amtrak. This to help Amtrak in its plans, announced yesterday, to overhaul passenger service by expanding service in 21 states and eliminating some unprofitable stops. 

 BAY: Gasoline prices at an all-time record, according to today`s Lundberg Survey of 10,000 stations nationwide. The price of a gallon of regular gas surged better than 6 cents over the last two weeks to $1.47 a gallon. The increases are particularly unwelcome here in California where upstate, gas cost at least 10 percent more than  the national average. The question now: what impact will sky-high prices have on the economy? 

 Fred Katayama has the story. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 KATAYAMA (voice-over): Motorists are paying more at the pump than ever before. 

 UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You know, we can`t afford it. 

 UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We are not happy about it. 

 KATAYAMA: The Lundberg Survey found that the price for an average gallon of gas rose 6 cents nationwide in the last two weeks to $1.47. That tops the previous high of $1.46 in November 1990 just before the outbreak of the Gulf War. 

 Gas prices are higher even though crude oil costs $30.13 a barrel, about $9 less than back then. That`s because inventories are thinner now. 

 FRANK KNUETTEL, PAINEWEBBER: They are actually much lower now than at the time of the Gulf War and they`re lower than in 1996, which was the low period as well. 

 KATAYAMA: If these high oil prices continue north of $30 through the year, economist David Resler says they could shave half a percentage point off U.S. economic growth. 

 DAVID RESLER, NOMURA SECURITIES: It`s going to start to act like a tax on consumer spending, and we`re going to have a fairly significant reduction in real purchases. 

 KATAYAMA: Analysts expect OPEC oil ministers will vote to hike production when they meet next month. 

 BILL RICHARDSON, ENERGY SECRETARY: Our hope is that production will be increased then. But I`m not trying to pressure them, but it`s really in the best interest of the international community that there be financial stability. 

 KATAYAMA: But unless producers boost output by at least 2 million barrels a day, analysts say crude prices could continue to rise. (on camera): Still. for now, higher gas prices have not deterred most motorists. Fuel is relatively cheap. When inflation is accounted  for, a gallon of gas today costs nearly one-third less than it did 10 years ago. 

 Fred Katayama, CNNFN financial news, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: Still ahead on MONEYLINE, the Republican White House race gets personal, with John McCain attacking George W. Bush`s supporters in the religious right. 

 Wolf Blitzer joins us with that story, in our "MONEYLINE News Digest." 

 Also ahead, the Treasury secretary calls for a wrecking ball for illegal corporate tax shelters. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Starting tonight, we are pleased to welcome a new member to the MONEYLINE team. Yes, CNNfn`s Wolf Blitzer joins us with the "MONEYLINE News Digest," the day`s top stories from outside the world of business -- Wolf. 

 WOLF BLITZER, CNNFN ANCHOR: Thanks, Stuart. Good to be with you. 

 We begin tonight with election 2000. The Republican White House candidates are in a fierce battle over the religious right. George W. Bush says John McCain is shamelessly using religion to get ahead, this after McCain attacked Pat Robertson and other Bush supporters as agents of intolerance. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 SEN. JOHN MCCAIN (R-AZ), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Unfortunately, Governor Bush is a Pat Robertson Republican who will lose to Al Gore. We are the party of Ronald Reagan, not Pat Robertson. We are the party of Abraham Lincoln, not Bob Jones. 

 GOV. GEORGE W. BUSH (R-TX), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: You can`t lead America to a better tomorrow by calling names and pointing fingers. He is a person who obviously wants to divide people into camps. He`s playing the religious card. That`s not Reaganesque. That reminds me of the current administration. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 BLITZER: Tomorrow, of course, is a key primary day for the Republicans, with voting in Virginia and Washington state and a party caucus in North Dakota. 

 Elsewhere tonight, here in Washington, nearly 200 protesters were arrested outside the Supreme Court demanding a new trial for death row prisoner Mumia Abu Jamal and an end to capital punishment. The justices were meeting inside during the demonstration. 

 And South African officials say they rescued about 3,000 people today from the rising flood waters in Mozambique. The U.N. announced aid for the flood victims and warned that thousands are still in danger. 

 We`ll have much more on the fight between George W. Bush and John McCain with analysis from Jeff Greenfield and Bill Schneider. Plus, the day`s other news at 8:00 p.m. Eastern tonight on "THE WORLD TODAY." 

 Now back to you, Stuart. 

 VARNEY: Wolf, would you call McCain an attack on the religious right? Was he attacking the religious right, or was he sort of saying, keep your distance? 

 BLITZER: He didn`t attack the religious right per se. He went after leaders, certain leaders of the religious right, mentioning by name Pat Robertson and Jerry Falwell. He also made clear in his remarks in Virginia Beach that there were many people involved in  the religious right, good conservatives, good religious Christians that he supports, that he wants to work with. He made a point of saying that Gary Bauer, one of his supporters, was right there with him. So, it wasn`t an attack on the religious right as a whole, it was an attack on certain leaders of the religious right. 

 VARNEY: Wolf Blitzer, welcome to MONEYLINE. 

 All right, now let`s go to Willow. 

 BAY: Thanks Stuart. 

 A new campaign launch today in Washington against so-called abusive corporate tax shelters. Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers hopes greater disclosure will stop the practice, which is estimated to cost the government billions each year. 

 Bob Beard has that story. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 BOB BEARD, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service will now require corporations to disclose transactions that do nothing but cut taxes and offer no other economic benefits. 

 LAWRENCE SUMMERS, TREASURY SECRETARY: The virtue of transparency is that just nobody who is doing something that is legal has anything to fear from disclosure. 

 BEARD: The new rules also apply to accounting and law firms that market corporate tax shelters. Nobody knows how many shelters there are because new ones are created every day. 

 (on camera): Treasury`s already cracked down on one called a debt straddle. In it, a company buys two bonds at 6 percent. After 3 months, the interest rate on one bond drops to zero, while the rate on the other doubles. The company then sells the loser, claiming a tax loss. 

 (voice-over): A Stanford law professor says these corporate shelters conservatively cost the Treasury $10 billion a year. 

 JOE BANKMAN, STANFORD LAW PROFESSOR: What the corporations don`t pay someone else has to. And the real loser here can be the honest corporate executive who doesn`t want to do a deal like this. 

 BEARD: PricewaterhouseCoopers <http://www.pwcglobal.com/> calls Summer`s tax shelter initiative, overkill, that Congress and the courts are already eliminating shelters. 

 KEN KEIS, PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS: The likelihood that you see any aggressive corporate planning for the foreseeable future has substantially diminished, because the IRS has been very successful in winning most of the cases. 

 BEARD: The IRS is setting up an office to analyze tax shelters. And in addition to Treasury`s action, the administration is asking Congress to quickly close some remaining loopholes. 

 Bob Beard, CNN financial news, Washington. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: Coming up in the next half hour of MONEYLINE, ohh, what a difference a weekend can make. 

 BAY: The blue chips reverse course from retreat to rally. 

 VARNEY: Plus, more IPO money to come in the "Palm" of 3Com`s hand as the Pilot`s expected IPO price doubled. 

 Stay tuned, MONEYLINE will be right back for you. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: In tonight`s headlines, Dow Power: Investors dump techs in favor 

 of old standbys, as Wall Street asks, has the blue-chip index bottomed out? 

 An end to the power-sharing relationship that many doubted would work: Citigroup`s John Reed retires, leaving the top job to Sandy Weill. 

 And AOL without wires: We`ll talk to Bob Pittman about America Online`s ambitious wireless strategy. 

 BAY: First, more on our top story. The blue chips staged a stunning comeback today just as the index appeared on the edge of a bear market. The Dow rallied back above 10,000, after closing below that mark Friday for the first time since April. The blue chips soared 176 points, or nearly 2 percent, to close at 10,038. Lately, the Dow and Nasdaq have moved in different directions, and today was a no exception. The Nasdaq slumped 12 points to end at 4,577, though earlier it was down more than 120 points. Winners on the Big Board ran neck and neck with losers. Thirty-six stocks hit new 52-week highs; 221 stocks hit new 52-week lows. Meanwhile, bonds suffered, as investors pulled money out of treasuries to put into stocks. The 10-year down a half a point. The 30-year down 19/32. The yield at 6.18 percent. 

 VARNEY: The money flowing into stocks boosted the market`s most battered sector: blue chips. Even with a triple digit rally, however, the Dow industrials are still down 12 percent for the year 2000. 

 Peter Viles now on whether today`s blue-chip rally is built to last. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 PETER VILES, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The battered blue chips got some much-needed support from two influential friends, Merrill Lynch (URL: http://www.ml.com/) and Goldman Sachs (URL: http://www.gs.com/) . In a new report, Merrill argued recent selling was overdone because investors are underestimating the economy`s staying power. 

 BRUCE STEINBERG, MERRILL LYNCH: It will slow down, because the Fed is tightening policy, but I don`t think it`s going to slow down as much as what the market seems to be fearing, because implicit in the market`s setup is the thought that there won`t be any earnings next year or earnings will be down next year, and that`s probably not going to happen. 

 VILES: And Goldman`s Abby Joseph Cohen issued a report calling the S&P 500 undervalued, held to her prediction it will hit 1,525 this year, said earnings are heading higher and reminded investors Fed policy is aimed at -- quite -- "elongating the economic expansion, not ending it." 

 Those sentiments plus a binge of bargain hunting breathed life into recent laggards, such as American Express, General Electric (URL: http://www.ge.com) , Procter & Gamble, Home Depot (URL: http://www.homedepot.com/) and Wal-Mart. But those stocks  are fighting a powerful trend: millions of small investors. In January, they dumped a record #39 billion into stock mutual funds, and they put it to work in aggressive growth funds and international funds, and yanked $12 billion out of value-oriented funds. That boasted continued trouble for beaten-down old economy stocks. 

 But how much longer can the Nasdaq remain immune to higher interest rates? Morgan Stanley`s U.S. strategist says the current correction won`t be over until it hits those high-techs. 

 BYRON WEIN, MORGAN STANTLEY DEAN WITTER: I think before this is over, the Nasdaq will be down. The Nasdaq is up about 12 percent, while the Dow and the S&P are down. And I think before this correction that I`m concerned about is resolved, the Nasdaq will be in negative territory also. 

 VEIL (on camera): The Nasdaq certainly does look overdue for a pullback. It hasn`t suffer a 10 percent correction since last summer, when it traded in the 2500 range. Since then, it is up more than 80 percent. 

 Peter Viles, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: Despite today`s rebound, our next guest warns that the worst is not over yet for blue-chip stocks. Joining us now here in Los Angeles, Quinn Stills, with $6 billion under management for the Boston Company Asset Management. 

 Quinn, thanks for joining us. 

 So the worst isn`t over yet? What lies ahead for the blue chips? 

 QUINN STILLS, BOSTON COMPANY ASSET MANAGEMNT: Well, I think we`re going to continue to suffer as rates rise in this environment. 

 BAY: How much suffering do you suspect we`re in for? 

 STILLS: Well, I think as rates continue to rise, investors will still do this top-down selling, pressuring stocks, as we`ve seen this month. 

 BAY: And you think that blue chips are poised, particularly, for more? 

 STILLS: Yes, I think as I tried to mention before, there`s some top-down selling going on, where investors are pummeling low-valuation  stocks and piling into the high-growth, high-valuation ones. 

 BAY: And that will change. 

 STILLS: That will change. I think that`ll reverse out in the next few months. 

 BAY: What about techs? We saw some weakness today in the Nasdaq? What lies ahead for them? Do we see a significant correction there? 

 STILLS: I think absolutely, Willow. I have been following these tech stocks for a long time. This has been an extraordinary rise. And I think if we look at the P/E ratios and price-to-book rations, we`re really testing the limits. 

 BAY: So we`ve seen some money coming out of big-cap texts, like Microsoft, MCI WorldCom (URL: http://www.mciworldcom.com) . Where is that money going? 

 STILLS: I think today it went into energy, it went financial services. I think we`ll continue to see the money flow out of those, to some degree, and filter into other parts. 

 BAY: Financials -- have we seen the bottom yet there? 

 STILLS: We`re close to it. I would advise people to try to build positions in that area. 

 BAY: Because you think we`re that close to the bottom, if not at the bottom of financials, that that`s good place for investors to put some money? 

 STILLS: Absolutely. Absolutely. 

 BAY: You came in today with some picks. Let`s talk about some of them. WellPoint (URL: http://www.wellpoint.com/) . It`s and HMO? 

 STILLS: Yes, WellPoint`s one of the best-run HMOs out there. They`ve got an excellent management team. They generate tons of free cash flow, and it`s a very cheap stock. 

 BAY: Ross  (URL: http://www.rossstores.com/) -- even at 15 1/2, why buy a retailer? You have to convince me here. 

 STILLS: Well, that`s the opportunity. 

 BAY: Why? Because it`s cheap? 

 STILLS: It`s very cheap, it`s got rising earnings estimates. Estimates are getting better. They`ve got some tough comp. They`ve got 5 percent long-term depth in total capital. It`s a very, very compelling value. 

 BAY: Quinn Stills, thanks for those tips. 

 STILLS: Thank you. 

 BAY: Stuart. 

 STILLS: All right, Citigroup was among the Dow stocks on the rebound today, thanks to well-received news from the executive suite. Co-chairman and CEO John Reed will retire in April, after 35 years with the financial services giant. Wall Street seemed relieved there will now be one clear voice at the top, co-chairman and chief executive Sandy Weill. 

 Greg Clarkin has that story. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 CLARKIN (voice-over): The power-sharing marriage between Sandy Weill and John Reed at Citigroup is over. Reed announcing he will leave Citigroup in April, just two years after he and Weill formed the company  and named themselves co-CEOs. 

 DIANA YATES, A.G. EDWARDS: The day-to-day operations had already been handed over to Sandy Weill, and John Reed was more the visionary for the company. All in all, I think the Street, the market, the analysts community, the investment community is really comfortable that now we`ve done away with a -- quote -- co-CEO leadership. 

 CLARKIN: Analysts say the two had clashed often, following the $70 billion merger of Reed`s Citibank (URL: http://www.citi.com/) and Weill`s Travelers (URL: http://www.travelerspc.com/) slowing the past of combining the companies. 

 Weil is the sole CEO for now. He vowed to name a successor within two years. Former Treasury Secretary Rubin said he doesn`t want the job, something he`s said since squeezing in to the executive suite with Weill and Reed late last year. Analysts say the next CEO could be a Citigroup insider or an acquisition of a bank, brokerage house or insurance company could provide a fresh batch of candidates. 

 RICHARD BOVE, RAYMOND JAMES: There is a fairly strong belief in Sandy Weill`s capabilities. Unlike Reed, Sandy seems to have this ability to attract the very best and the very brightest people. He also seems  to have this ability to get the most out of them. He has a long history of putting the right people in the right places. 

 CLARKIN: Reed is the second marquis name to leave Citigroup in recent days. Last week`s CFO, Heidi Miller, quit to joint Priceline.com (URL: http://www.priceline.com/) . 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 CLARKIN: Reed spent 35 years at Citigroup, but analysts say even with his departure, the executive ranks remain overcrowded with simply too much job duplication, and they expect to see more departures in the months ahead -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: Greg Clarkin, thank you. 

 Well, Citigroup`s stock had to close more than a 1 1/4 today. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter today. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter upgraded the stock, but it is still down 17 percent from its 52-week high. 

 BAY: Coming up, we`ll head to New Orleans, to check out a slew of deals that`ll marry the wireless world with the Web, and we`ll hear from America Online`s Bob Pittman about AOL`s efforts to go mobile. (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Late news tonight that could make the anticipation for this week`s Palm (URL: http://www.palm.com/) IPO even greater. The maker of those wildly popular Palm Pilot gizmos hiked the price range for its stock offering to between $30 and $32 a share. The original range was about half that: $14 to $16. Palm, by the way, is being spun off by 3Com (URL: http://www.3com.com/) . The stock jumped nearly 5 1/2 points in after-hours trading, and it`s up almost 70 percent so far this year on those very high expectations for the IPO. 

 BAY: The movers and shakers of the wireless world trekked to New Orleans today to hash out the next generation of mobile technology. And a host of deals emerged to connect wireless to the Web. 

 Steve Young reports. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 YOUNG (voice-over): Just in time for Mardi Gras, the wireless  world has descended on New Orleans to announce a blizzard of deals and alliances. Qualcomm and Microsoft will work on wireless phones and other appliances. America Online and Sprint (URL: http://www.sprint.com) PCS are developing AOL wireless. And Nextel (URL: http://www.nextel.com/) and IBM (URL: http://www.ibm.com/) are teaming up to provide wireless services for business customers. 

 But all of these deals use different wireless systems. While the U.S. invented cell phone technology, it now finds itself behind the curve. The reason is a technical alphabet soup. While most of the world uses the GSM standard, there are five different and incompatible systems in the United States. 

 CHRIS GENT, CEO, VODAFONE  It`s confusing for customers. They can`t buy a system and know it`s going to work everywhere in the U.S. So for national operations that`s quite important. I mean, as happens they got around it by alliances and deals, but it -- I think that`s just slowed the whole process up, slowed momentum. 

 YOUNG: One of the biggest players, AT&T (URL: http://www.att.com/) wireless, placed its bet on TDMA technology based on what was available three years ago. Experts say as the industry moves to so-called third-generation equipment or 3G, the U.S. could regain the role of wireless technology leader. 

 MICHAEL MAHONEY, DRESDNER RCM GLOBAL INVESTORS: You have CDMA as a critical component of any of the 3G technologies, and, of course, CDMA - - a number of patents on CDMA are owned by Qualcomm in San Diego. So in some ways it does restore U.S. leadership because CDMA is part of this technology. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 YOUNG: Cell phone usage is more prevalent in Europe than it is in  the United States, and many Europeans already surf the Web wirelessly on their mobile devices. But many American companies are betting America`s appetite for the wireless Web will grow sharply in the next few years. 

 Tomorrow night, we`ll take a look at a variety of ways to get on the Web wirelessly -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: All right, Steve Young reporting. Thank you, Steve. 

 Let`s check out how some of those deals were received on Wall Street. We`ll start with Qualcomm, which was up more than 9 1/2. Nextel Communications, IBM and Vodafone (URL: http://www.vodafone-airtouch-plc.com/) -- Vodafone Airtouch, I should say, they all lost ground. As for the stocks that announced deals with AOL, which, as you may know, last month agreed to buy CNNfn`s parent company Time Warner (URL: http://www.timewarner.com/) , Sprint PCS up nearly a point. As for those two smaller companies, Research in Motion soared nearly nine, and Arch Communications (URL: http://www.arch.com/) up nearly four points. 

 Meanwhile, America Online gained 15/16 on the day. It`s still well off its lows hit in the wake of Time-Warner`s announcement. 

 Earlier today, I spoke to Robert Pittman, president and chief operating officer at AOL, and I began by asking him, who`s paying for these wireless deals? 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 ROBERT PITTMAN, PRES., COO, AMERICA ONLINE: Out of all of these arrangements, I wish I could say exactly what pricing`s going to be. I think it`s probably too early for anybody in this industry to tell you they know for sure what the pricing is, because consumers set pricing, not us. And if we`re smart we follow consumers` leads. But I think the idea is with an AOL service we`re already getting paid. And in many ways we can let the consumer  get access to more AOL. Probably it improves our retention. That`s a monetary value. Probably we`re creating impressions we can sell more advertising. We can monetize that. In some cases there may be services or there may be instances in which people do pay extra for that to an AOL. 

 From the wireless side and the carrier side, I think they`ll set their own pricing. And I think they`ll either use it to be competitively differentiated from other services or they`ll use it as an additional revenue stream. Then the good news for them is they actually have both opportunities. 

 VARNEY: So there`s no change, then, in AOL`s basic position, which is users are going to pay a fee for these services and this content. You`re not going to be pushed into giving away this service or into drastically reducing prices. 

 PITTMAN: Oh, you mean on the AOL service? I think we`ve already probably proven in the last year with the emergence of CompuServe   as  the value brand and the continued momentum of AOL that AOL does not offer in -- operate in the value segment. It operates in the premium segment. Our CompuServe service is our value service, and, by  the way, it`s the second-fastest-growing ISP behind AOL. 

 But I think when you start looking at value-added services, like access on wireless, access on TV, you`re clearly selling to the premium segment not the value segment. Remember, the value segment would rather do away with services and have less features if it`s cheaper. It`s the premium segment that wants more and more and more and is willing to pay for it or willing to embrace that model. So clearly I think the AOL alliance for these kinds of services is probably the strongest that there could be. 

 VARNEY: Henry Blodgett, the Internet Analyst at Merrill Lynch, who`s done a great deal for you in the recent past, I`m sure, he says that when the deal goes through with Time Warner you will see an extra 30 percent of revenues coming -- that`s cash -- coming in through the front door. Where will that 30 percent extra money come from? 

 PITTMAN: Well, I -- you know, I`m not Henry Blodgett so I can`t speak to Henry`s estimates, but I think we have said that we`re comfortable with an estimate that you`ll see a 30 percent increase in Ibida (ph) as a result of the new merged companies, which is a very strong growth rate for us. And we think it`s coming from a multitude of places. 

 Clearly, you know, new businesses like this, new features like this are important. New businesses like AOL TV are important. But then also just the blocking and tackling. We spend almost a billion dollars a year on marketing. A lot of that money can go within the family of Time Warner. And if it doesn`t replace a paying advertiser or a paying customer, it falls to the bottom line. So there are great ways to get efficiencies of the business, there are obviously new opportunities in music, new opportunities in magazines, and the Internet is really a catalyst to add incremental and new revenue streams. 

 VARNEY: Bob Pittman, AOL, we thank you very much for joining us on MONEYLINE. Thank you, sir. 

 PITTMAN: Thank you. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: And we`ll, of course, keep you posted with all the details from Wireless 2000 as the conference continues through Wednesday -- Willow. 

 BAY: Stuart, still to come, problems for Sega (URL: http://www.sega.co.jp/) , a dream for Sony (URL: http://www.world.sony.com/) . We`ll tell you why Sony`s market value soared by more than $5 billion and take a look at the day`s other big stock movers. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: The market was buzzing today over a report that Rupert Murdoch`s News Corp (URL: http://www.newscorp.com/) and Yahoo! were talking about a broad alliance. Sources confirmed to MONEYLINE today that talks involved a possible joint venture of global satellite operations. Checking those stocks, News Corp jumped nearly 2, but Yahoo! slumped more than 3. 

 VARNEY: Ah, plenty of other stocks on the move today. Look at Sony. It surged 8 7/8, benefiting from a profit warning from its rival video game-maker Sega. After taking a nose-dive last month, Sony is now back where it started the year. 

 Liz Claiborne (URL: http://www.lizclaiborne.com/) jumped more than a point on an upbeat article about down-and-out retailers. The stock has also received attention since Warren Buffet bought an 8 percent stake. 

 And the Bristol Hotel & Resorts (URL: http://www.bristolhotels.com/) up more than 60 percent  on 140 times its daily average volume. The British hotel operator Bass is buying Bristol for more than $150 million. 

 Tonight, a reality check for Wall Street`s latest stock phenomenon. Biotech stocks down sharply, pushing the Nasdaq biotech index down nearly 2 percent, that, of course, follows weeks of heady gains. Analysts said investors were cashing in and hitting the genomics stocks particularly hard. Genomics companies are those that do medical research based on the human genome. 

 Checking the biggest biotech losers: Incyte Pharmaceuticals (URL: http://www.incyte.com) , Gene Logic , Millennium Pharmaceuticals (URL: http://www.mlnm.com/) , Immunex  (URL: http://www.immunex.com/) and Amgen (URL: http://www.amgen.com/) . 

 BAY: When MONEYLINE returns: Hollywood exports American culture and American jobs. Ahead, we`ll tell you why the new Tinseltowns are nowhere near Los Angeles. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: You wouldn`t know it from box office receipts, but Hollywood is in economic turmoil. The cause is something called runaway production, "Titanic"-sized cost overruns causing producers to look for cheaper places to make films. Tinseltown is just too expensive. 

 More than 25 percent of all film and television production has left the Los Angeles area over the last decade, and the culprits, Casey Wian reports, were out in force this weekend. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 CASEY WIAN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): There were Mexican mariachi bands, homestyle Mississippi barbecues and free Rocky Mountain beer. Even an Elvis impersonator showed up to promote Memphis. More than 300 film commissions around the United States and from 33 countries came to Los Angeles this weekend, hoping to lure Hollywood producers to their area. Each exhibitor offered something unique. 

 UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Our governor, Jesse Ventura, is kind of our secret weapon. 

 UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Most of the producers that I talk to are interested in architecture. 

 UNIDENTIFIED MALE:: We have great scenery. We have Chinese traditions. We have cosmopolitan cities. You know, Jackie Chan is great publicity for Hong Kong. 

 WIAN: This is the 15th year for the trade show held in Hollywood`s backyard. It comes at a tough time for California`s entertainment industry. Thousands of workers are unemployed due to the loss of production to other locations. While Hollywood is losing business to other states, the entire U.S. film industry is losing business abroad, mostly to Canada. The weak Canadian dollar and tax incentives make it lucrative for producers to shoot there. 

 RANDY ADAMSICK, MINNESOTA FILM COMMISSIONER: It will never be the  way it was, and I think that all the film commissions, all of us, are really looking to reinvent ourselves, and in a lot of ways, learn a lesson from Canada. 

 WIAN: The growth of runaway production from Hollywood can be seen in this year`s Oscar nominations. All five best picture nominations relied heavily on locations outside Los Angeles. Despite that, the Los Angeles film commission was a no-show here. 

 CODY CLUFF, L.A. ENTERTAINMENT INDUSTRY: Trade shows are sort of a throwback to a bygone era and not an effective way to market Los Angeles. 

 WIAN: With $50 billion global dollars at stake, most exhibitors disagree, saying such trade shows are an effective way to reel in some of that movie business. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 WIAN: A coalition of film commissions and unions from around the country are planning to meet with congressional members in a few weeks on the runaway production issue. They`re pushing for a bill to tax credits to filmmakers who shoot in the United States. But a similar effort in California failed last summer -- Willow. 

 BAY: Casey, any sense that that legislation stands a better chance of getting through now? 

 WIAN: Supporters of tax breaks say the economy is in better shape now, the federal budget is in better shape now. They`re hoping it`ll happen, but it`s, so far, been a little tough sell. 

 BAY: Casey Wian reporting. Thanks -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: All right, up next, here`s what we have for you: "Ahead of the Curve," just some of what you need to know tonight before those markets open again tomorrow. 

 You`re watching MONEYLINE. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Wall Street gets to revisit Y2K worries tomorrow, watching to see whether computers can adjust to February 29. We get consumer confidence numbers for February and Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers speaks before the Senate. 

 In corporate news, retail giant Target reports earnings, and keep an eye on 3Com, up more than 5 after hours on news it doubled the price  range on its Palm IPO, which debuts later this week. 

 VARNEY: And finally, a quick programming note: Join us tomorrow on MONEYLINE, when we`ll have a special interview with the man widely thought to be the world`s best manager, GE`s chief Jack Welch. We`ll ask him about the recent pullback in GE`s stock, and how he plans to spend his last year at the helm of a $100 billion company, tomorrow night, here on MONEYLINE. 

 BAY: That`s MONEYLINE for this Monday. I`m Willow Bay in Los Angeles. 

 VARNEY: And I`m Stuart Varney in New York. And we thank you for joining us. 

 "CROSSFIRE" is next. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by  eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No license is granted to the user of this 

 material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor  shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that  members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNNfn so long as they provide conspicuous attribution  to CNNfn as the originator and copyright holder of such material.  This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document mnyl000020010808dw2s0006r




INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS
 Business/Financial Desk; Section C 
 Alcatel Will Buy Newbridge Networks for $7.1 Billion 

 By TIMOTHY PRITCHARD 
591 words
24 February 2000
The New York Times
NYTF
Page 4, Column 3
English
 c. 2000 New York Times Company 

 TORONTO, Feb. 23 -- Alcatel S.A., the big French communications equipment maker, has agreed to buy the Newbridge Networks Corporation of Canada in a $7.1 billion stock transaction that will give the combined company a stronger line of products to compete in North America against domestic rivals that dominate one of the world's largest markets. 

 The agreement announced today appeared to be the culmination of a period of uncertainty for Newbridge, which, though one of the most prominent technology companies in Canada, has been losing sales to big rivals like Lucent Technologies and Cisco Systems of the United States and Nortel Networks of Canada. 

 For Alcatel, the acquisition of Newbridge will give it a maker of equipment that delivers voice, data and video signals over a single network, an important way to send vast quantities of information over the Internet. Lucent and Cisco are already leaders in selling this type of equipment. 

 Under the agreement, which was announced after approval by both companies' boards, one Newbridge share will be exchanged for 0.81 Alcatel American depository receipt. The Alcatel A.D.R.'s, each of which is equivalent to one-fifth of a common share, fell $4 today, to $43.75, on the New York Stock Exchange. Newbridge shares fell $1.50, to $32.875, also on the Big Board. Trading in both was extremely heavy. 

 Serge Tchuruk, Alcatel's chairman and chief executive, said in Paris that his company was making ''a major move to become a world leader in new-generation networks.'' 

 ''This deal is expected to boost both growth and income,'' Mr. Tchuruk added. 

 Newbridge's headquarters in Kanata, Ontario, near Ottawa, will become the head office for a new North American division of Alcatel, with an estimated $2.5 billion in sales this year. Pearse Flynn, president of Newbridge, has been named president of the new unit. 

 Cost savings for the combined company are expected to be $230 million a year. 

 Newbridge's strength in product development has been offset by a weakness in marketing and profitability. In November, after the failure of a sales push in the United States and its sixth warning that quarterly profit would not meet expectations, Terence Matthews, Newbridge's founder and owner of a 23 percent stake, agreed to put the company up for sale. Mr. Matthews, who is expected to move on to other high-technology ventures, said ''the union of Alcatel and Newbridge is a true validation of our strategy.'' 

 The sale to Alcatel had been anticipated for the last two weeks after two other European suitors, Siemens of Germany and Ericsson of Sweden, decided not to pursue Newbridge. 

 Although Alcatel has been a relatively small competitor so far in the United States, it is the second-largest communications equipment supplier in Europe after Ericsson and has a solid international presence. Alcatel has 120,000 employees and operates in more than 130 countries. In the last two years, it has spent $8.5 billion on global acquisitions. 

 Newbridge, which has been in business for 14 years, has 6,000 employees and has until now operated largely through affiliations with other companies -- one of the most important having been Siemens. 

 Alcatel has been building slowly and modestly in North America, but it will now be in a better position to compete. 

 The United States accounts for about 40 percent of the estimated $560 billion global market for telecommunications equipment. 

Document nytf000020010809dw2o009vi




 Worldwide Advertising & Media Digest - Feb 22. 

1,680 words
22 February 2000
09:31
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

      ------------------------- WAM ----------------------- 


	   ....WORLDWIDE ADVERTISING & MEDIA DIGEST.....


      ----------------- February 22, 2000 -------------------- 

     News from Reuters, Dow Jones and the Wall Street Journal 

 about Advertising, Marketing, Media, the Internet, Brand-name 

 Products and Consumer Trends 

 *********************************************** 

     ADVERTISING & MARKETING: 

     LONDON - Havas Advertising's acquisition of Snyder 

 Communications Inc places it in the leading pack in the 

 aggressive hunt for multi-million dollar international marketing 

 accounts, experts say. The globalisation of business, driven by 

 intense competition for markets, Internet technology and the 

 quest for shareholder value, is helping to propel the 

 advertising world into a handful of truly global players which 

 offer a full cross-border service. "This is a response to 

 clients rather than just a response to other agencies," said 

 Lorna Tilbian, media analyst at WestLB Panmure in London. 

 ********* 

 NEW YORK - Despite a Federal Trade Commission probe into its 

 datause of consumer data, DoubleClick Inc., an online 

 advertising firm, completed a secondary offering of 7.5 million 

 shares priced at $90.25 apiece. Of the shares sold, 5.7 million 

 were offered by DoubleClick and 1.8 million shares were sold by 

 stockholders. The company said it will use the funds generated 

 by the offering "for general purposes." DoubleClick also granted 

 its underwriters the option to buy an additional 1.1 million 

 shares. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.'s Goldman, Sachs & Co. and 

 Citigroup Inc.'s Salomon Smith Barney Inc. led the deal. In 

 recent weeks, DoubleClick has been under intense scrutiny from 

 onlineprivacy advocates and the FTC. Privacy advocates are 

 concerned that DoubleClick is combining data about Web sites a 

 user visits with such information as that user's name and home 

 address. 

 ********* 

 HELSINKI - Finnish food group Raisio has vowed to take a 

 firmer grip of marketing its Benecol cholesterol-cutting family 

 of food products and said it would launch new health-promoting 

 foods in the future. The group's earnings - and its share price 

 - took a beating last year on problems with selling enough 

 Benecol, weak exports of ordinary margarines to Russia and 

 one-off charges, and the group said this year was still off to a 

 weak start. Following a January profit-warning, the group 

 confirmed an 86 percent drop in profit before extraordinary 

 items to six million euros and said operating profit would rise 

 this year to some 33.5 million euros from 16 million. But 

 Benecol, which in the mid-1990s lifted Raisio from obscurity to 

 become an investors' darling, has failed to take off as hoped, 

 and the Benecol division would remain loss-making until the 

 fourth quarter. 

 ********* 

 LONDON - Britain's anti-trust watchdog said supermarket 

 chains could be forced to sell stores if it found evidence that 

 the industry was acting against the public interest. In the 

 second stage of its long-running investigation into the supply 

 of groceries, the Competition Commission listed possible 

 remedies to the issues it had uncovered following a ten month 

 probe. It said if it found insufficient competition in specific 

 localities, supermarkets could be forced to divest stores or 

 land to make room for competitors. The Commission did not 

 envisage any measures would be taken to directly impact on 

 profitability. But it said it may also recommend that a code of 

 conduct be implemented to ensure supermarkets do not exploit 

 their suppliers. 

     ******************* 

     MEDIA & THE INTERNET: 

     TOKYO - Sony Corp's launch of its new PlayStation2 video 

 game console, the world's first with a digital video disc (DVD) 

 player, should give Japan's struggling DVD market a chance to 

 finally take off, analysts said. Japan's DVD market has long 

 suffered from weak turnover in both hardware and software, a 

 vicious cycle as poor sales in one undermine sales in the other. 

 "PlayStation2 will definitely open a new door for the DVD 

 market," said Kazuharu Miura, analyst at Daiwa Institute of 

 Research. "People will become more familiar with DVDs, and most 

 importantly, we should see a wider range of software hitting the 

 market." 

 ********* 

 LONDON - British Culture Secretary Chris Smith vetoed a new 

 separate levy for the BBC and instead raised the existing viewer 

 licence fee to finance the BBC's leap into the digital age. 

 After months of government wrangling, Smith will raise the 

 public-funded broadcaster's annual fee to 104 pounds ($166) from 

 101 from April 1. The increase will provide an extra 200 million 

 pounds per annum, on average. Greg Dyke, the BBC's new 

 director-general said: "This settlement is a welcome boost at 

 the start of my time as director-general and a vote of 

 confidence for the BBC and the people who work in it." The 

 option of letting the BBC raise a new annual 24 pound digital 

 levy was rejected - a move cheered by commercial television 

 companies who had dubbed it the "digital tax". 

 ********* 

 BEIJING - China is further reining in the independent 

 dissemination of news over the Internet, but the move appears 

 driven as much by commerce as politics. Wang Qingcun, an 

 official with the News and Information Office of the State 

 Council, China's cabinet, said that commercial Web sites that 

 provide news must obtain approval from the State Council as well 

 as the Ministry of Information Industry, which oversees the 

 Internet as a whole. "The country's policy is to encourage and 

 promote (online dissemination of news), but there must be 

 regulation and guidance for the sake of healthy development," 

 said Wang in a front-page interview with the state-run China 

 Economic Times. Far from stamping out online news in China, the 

 government appears to be pushing to ensure that state media 

 aren't locked out of the potentially lucrative business - one of 

 the Internet's biggest draws for the country's estimated 10 

 million users. 

     ******************* 

     BRAND-NAME PRODUCTS & MARKETS: 

     NEW YORK - Coca-Cola Co.'s share of the U.S. soft-drink 

 market eroded last year, while Cadbury Schweppes Plc gained 

 ground. According to Beverage Digest/Maxwell's closely watched 

 annual industry ratings, Coke's market share lead slipped 0.4 

 percentage point from a year earlier to 44.1 percent, while 

 archrival PepsiCo Inc. remained at 31.4 percent. Cadbury's U.S. 

 carbonated soft-drink business, called Dr Pepper/Seven Up Inc., 

 was a distant third with a 14.7 percent market share, but its 

 gain of 0.5 percentage point was the strongest in the industry. 

 Price increases hurt volume growth for both Coke and Pepsi. Coke 

 raised its prices more aggressively earlier in the year, with 

 Pepsi "largely catching up by the end of the year," said John 

 Sicher, editor and publisher of Beverage Digest. 

 ********* 

 LONDON - Unilever Plc, the world's largest consumer goods 

 company, says it will cut 25,000 jobs, or about 10 percent of 

 its global work force, over the next five years and carry out a 

 vast restructuring aimed at reinvigorating its tired top-line. 

 As it reported lower 1999 pre-tax profits and flat sales, in 

 line with industry analysts' modest expectations, Unilever 

 unveiled proposals aimed at increasing top-line growth to five 

 percent and operating margins to 15 percent by 2004. The 

 Anglo-Dutch giant - maker of such leading brands as Dove soap, 

 Lipton tea and Calvin Klein fragrances - said it will focus on 

 400 leading brands and invest 1.0 billion pounds in additional 

 marketing support for them over five years. 

 ********* 

 LONDON - British supermarkets Tesco Plc and Asda kicked off 

 another round of multi million pound price cuts, which their 

 rivals will find hard to match, say industry analysts. "Tesco 

 and Asda are the ones moving in the direction the consumer wants 

 at the moment," said Paul Smiddy, food retail analyst at Credit 

 Lyonnais Laing. "They are increasing the headroom between the 

 two groups in the industry. Safeway and J.Sainsbury have 

 demonstrated that they cannot match these price cuts on an 

 ongoing basis." In the battle for market dominance, Tesco is 

 holding onto its lion's share, while Asda's share has climbed to 

 record levels gaining on J Sainsbury in the number top spot. 

 Safeway is in position number four and together they control 70 

 percent of the 90 billion pound grocery retail market. 

 ********* 

 MEXICO CITY - The principal Roman Catholic archdiocese in 

 Mexico attacked the hugely popular Pokemon cartoon series on 

 Monday, saying the characters incited violence and sexual 

 perversity among children. "Pokemon is not as innocent as some 

 believe," the Mexico City Archdiocese said in its weekly 

 publication Desde La Fe. "Behind the huge merchandising 

 phenomenon one finds, as in many Japanese cartoons, a 

 combination of elements that incite violence and sexual 

 perversion among children," the publication said. "This is the 

 tip of an iceberg that could have dramatic consequences." 

 ********* 

 CHICAGO - Sears, Roebuck and Co., the second-largest 

 retailer in the United States, says sit will open six Sears 

 Hardware Stores with a 55,000-foot format - more than twice the 

 size of current stores. The new stores will feature a 

 greenhouse, drive-though pickup area and a larger assortment of 

 items than in the current 25,000-square-foot Sears hardware 

 stores. The stores, modelled after the Orchard Supply Hardware 

 stores that Sears bought in 1996, will be opened in the U.S. 

 Northeast and Midwest in 2000, Sears spokesman Chuck Merydith 

 said. The company will evaluate results at the stores before 

 deciding whether to open others, Merydith said. He would not say 

 how much the stores cost to open. 

     ******************* 

     CONSUMER TRENDS: 

     CANBERRA - A sunscreen using coral's natural defence against 

 ultra-violet rays (UV) could be on the market within five years, 

 Australian scientists say. The sunscreen is the first of its 

 type in the world and is based on the natural ultra-violet 

 blocking compound used in coral reefs, Australian Institute of 

 Marine Science executive Peter Isdale said in a statement. 

 Corals have developed natural sunscreens to cope with long-term 

 exposure to the high-intensity ultraviolet radiation penetrating 

 shallow reefs. 

     *********************************************** 

  - Reuters London Advertising Newsdesk - +44 171 542 2809 

     *********************************************** 

     See full stories on Reuters Advertising & Media Briefing. 

 And why not visit our Internet site at 

http://www.reuters.com/rbb?

 ***********************************************. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw2m06u9v


 Business 
 MONEYLINE; Microsoft CEO 

 Willow Bay, Fred Katayama, Peter Viles, Stuart Varney, Steve Young, Terry Keenan, Casey Wian 
8,236 words
21 February 2000
23:30
CNNfn: Moneyline News Hour
MNYL
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 WILLOW BAY, CNNfn ANCHOR, MONEYLINE: Tonight, "The Bottom Line" on companies commanding the headlines and on the move. 

 Lucent Technologies (URL: http://www.lucent.com/) trading near it`s lowest level in nearly a year: Can America`s most widely held stock win back investor confidence? 

 And Nokia (URL: http://www.nokia.com/) , the wireless leader that emerged from a most unlikely place: Finland. 

 Plus, a beverage giant turned Hollywood power broker. Is Seagram (URL: http://www.seagram.com/) about to pull off its biggest deal yet? 

 And we`ll ask Bill Gates about the roll-out of Windows 2000 and whether Wall Street`s concerns about the product are overblown. 

 ANNOUNCER: This is THE MONEYLINE NEWS HOUR. Reporting from New York, Willow Bay. 

 BAY: Good evening, and welcome to this special edition of MONEYLINE. 

 Tonight, an in-depth look at five companies through the eyes of their own executives as well as the analysts who cover them. 

 We begin with a company that has managed to beat profit estimates 15 quarters in a row. We`re talking about Lucent Technologies. But this last quarter, the winning streak ended for America`s most widely held stock. Lucent missed its profit target, and then questions arose over its accounting practices. The stock fell into a tailspin, and this year alone Lucent shares have lost nearly 30 percent. So what lies ahead? 

 Fred Katayama has more from Lucent`s headquarters in Murray Hill, New Jersey. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 FRED KATAYAMA, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): These glass tubes are revolutionizing communications, moving information 1,200 times faster than cable at lower cost. It`s one of the key areas fueling growth at Lucent Technologies. 

 RICHARD MCGINN, CHAIRMAN & CEO, LUCENT: We see a mesh, or a skin, of devices around the world that are connected to a network of networks. 

 KATAYAMA: Driving Lucent`s growth: the ambitions of chairman Richard McGinn. 

 MCGINN: We set really audacious goals for ourselves, challenged ourselves to grow rapidly, to take share in the fast-growing marketplace. And in 1999, we took six points of share, even though we are the largest in the industry. 

 KATAYAMA: The world`s largest telecom equipment maker competes in the hottest areas of communications, battling Canada`s Nortel Networks (URL: http://www.nortelnetworks.com/) in optical networking and circuit switches, Cisco Systems (URL: http://www.cisco.com/) in data networking, Texas Instruments (URL: http://www.ti.com/) in communications chips, and Ericsson (URL: http://www.ericsson.com/) in wireless. 

 Lucent is the most widely held stock in America. McGinn`s mother has most of her savings in Lucent stock. Even though the company`s roots date back to the first phone, Lucent acts more like a  young growth stock than an old-line industrial. By the end of last year, its stock had jumped more than nine-fold since AT&T (URL: http://www.att.com/) spun it off in 1996. And its earnings have beaten analysts` expectations for 15 straight quarters. 

 But Lucent`s luster suddenly dimmed in the new millennium. Its stock plunged by a third when it issued a profit warning January 6. It sank again amid allegations it was supporting profits with overly aggressive accounting. And last week, its earnings streak snapped. First-quarter profits fell more than 20 percent from the year before. So far this month, Lucent`s stock has lost almost 29 percent. Among Lucent`s recent mistakes: It underestimated demand for fiber-optics equipment, losing some customers to Nortel. Lucent`s solution? 

 PATRICIA RUSSO, EXECUTIVE V.P. LUCENT: We have ramped up capacity in our factories, particularly in the optical area. We`ll triple capacity this quarter and double it again next quarter. 

 KATAYAMA (on camera): Despite the recent setbacks, Lucent is not stepping back. The company forecasts sales will grow by about 17 percent this year, which would beat the industry average. But the company is so big, to meet that target, it would have to grow its sales by $6.5 billion this year. That`s roughly equivalent to all of Apple Computer`s sales last year. 

 (voice-over): It`s biggest challenge, shifting customers from old phone equipment to the new digital technologies. Some on Wall Street are skeptical. 

 ERIC BUCK, DONALDSON, LUFKIN & JENRETTE: To the extent that Lucent is successful in some of the newer technologies, such as optics, it`s going to be at the expense of older technologies. 

 ALEX CENA, SALOMON SMITH BARNEY: I currently have a hold rating on Lucent Technologies, primarily because the second-half expectations for Lucent Technologies I think are still a bit aggressive. 

 KATAYAMA: Lucent insists sales in optical and wireless technologies are not coming at the expense of traditional equipment sales, thanks to acquisitions and new products from its Bell labs. 

 And as for Lucent stock, McGinn vows to win back investor confidence. He doesn`t want to let down 4.5 million shareholders, or his mother. 

 Fred Katayama, CNN financial news, Murray Hill, New Jersey. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: Can Lucent regain its luster on Wall Street and is now a good time to buy or sell the stock? Analysts are mixed. I recently spoke with Charles DiSanza, wireless analyst at Gerard Klauer Mattison -- last month he upgraded Lucent to a buy -- and Alex Cena, wireless analyst at Salomon Smith Barney, who recently downgraded Lucent to a hold. I began by asking Alex about his concerns. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 CENA: My biggest concern with Lucent Technologies is during the profitwarning they had an opportunity to really clear the decks on expectations. What they did, however, was actually raise expectations for the second half. And what my fear is, that while they`ll probably make the March quarter, we might be sitting, talking about these same issues again in the June, July time frame. 

 BAY: Why is that? Is that an issue of their ability to execute in your mind? 

 CENA: I think they can execute, it`s a matter of when. Whenever you have a product transition issue, odds are against you that you`ll be able to complete, exit that product transition on time. It usually takes longer than expected. 

 BAY: Charles, do you feel more confident in McGinn`s optimism about future quarters? 

 CHARLES DISANZA, GERARD KLAUER MATTISON: Sure, I believe that they probably had no reason not to clear the decks unless they really believed that the second half would be strong. Now you need about a 25 to 30 percent sales gain in the second half in order to make their objectives for the year... 

 BAY: Is that possible? 

 DISANZA: ... so it`s aggressive. Well, the market`s growing rather rapidly, and I think I`m going to bet with them rather than against them. 

 BAY: Do you think that their problems are limited to that misjudgment of demand? 

 DISANZA: They didn`t misjudge demand as much as simply didn`t produce on time -- you can call it a little bit of a misjudgment, I guess. Fundamentally, you know, some of their products were not ready. And it was more than one product. It was a series of four or five different things that had caused the problem. But, you know, they`re already being rectified. Their high-speed OC-192 devices were already in the field. They actually booked a teeny-weeny bit of revenue in the quarter that disappointed. And so it`s a matter of gearing up, rolling out. I think they can do it, and I think they have good visibility that they can do it. 

 BAY: Fiber-optics, about 12 percent of Lucent`s business. Do I have that? 

 DISANZA: Yes. 

 BAY: How important, though, is that portion of the business to Lucent`s future? 

 DISANZA: Well, it`s growing 50 percent. At Nortel it`s growing even more than that. So it`s a very high-growth area that is very important to offset the slow growth in their old circuit-switch business, which, you know, will grow a little bit this year. 

 BAY: We`re going to leave it right there, take a break and continue our discussion of Lucent in just a moment. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: It`s a Wall Street darling that hit a brick wall in the new millennium. We continue our conversation on Lucent Technologies and whether it can win back investor confidence. 

 Joining us again, Alex Cena, wireless analyst at Salomon Smith Barney, and Charles DiSanza, a wireless analyst at Gerard Klauer Mattison. 

 Alex, what will you be looking at in the next report? 

 CENA: I think the March quarter will be relatively easy for Lucent Technologies. They set expectations low for March. 

 I think the more critical issue is not information we`ll derive from Lucent Technologies but from their customer base, whether two or three of the largest customers that are trialing their OC-192 product will be ready to accept them. To this date, that product, which is supposed to just have component difficulties, actually still has other problems with it where it`s not ready to be accepted yet. 

 BAY: Who are those key customers? 

 CENA: I can`t say who they are. One is a brand-new large CELAC (ph) and one is one of the largest long-distance companies. 

 BAY: Let`s talk about the competitive landscape a little bit and sort of position Lucent in comparison. 

 Nortel Networks: Now am I correct, do you think they have a better product line? 

 DISANZA: I do. I think they have a marginally, moderately better product line for network operators, for carriers. I thought that for a long time. And in fact, until I upgraded Lucent when they hit a wall on a price basis, I was advocating Nortel for the past year and a half  as opposed to Lucent as having a better product line and a cheaper P/E ratio. I think moderately better is the way to think of it in the carrier class products. 

 BAY: So do you think Lucent is able to regain any of that market share? 

 DISANZA: It`s only moderately better. They`re very similar companies. And while I judge that Nortel has a slightly better product offering, I think Lucent has a slightly better market position overall through the whole of the carrier class business. 

 BAY: Corning has been in the news a fair amount, beefing up their fiber-optics business. Where do they stand now? 

 CENA: Well, Corning, Lucent Technologies, all those that supply fiber- optic cables are all capacity constrained at the moment. So anything fiber-optical-related now, you just can`t ship enough. 

 You know, that`s -- actually, that`s a positive about Lucent Technologies. There`s huge demands for their product, all they have to deliver. And I think it`s a question of when. I don`t think it`s March; I think it`s some time in the second half. 

 BAY: Second half, so you think we`re waiting quite, quite some time before we see major changes. 

 How about Cisco Systems? It`s one-third of Lucent`s size. It`s double its market value, and it`s basically a sexier name. 

 CENA: Yes, well, the nice thing about Cisco Systems is it`s a company that dominates a $30 billion market today, but it has a $300 billion market that`s moving toward it. Cisco has the right products for next generation networks. 

 BAY: Is the world moving away from optical networking, as some suggest? 

 CENA: No, no. We`re moving toward optical networking. Actually if you take Lucent Technologies, Cisco Systems and Nortel`s revenue together, you`re getting less than one-third of this huge market. So... 

 BAY: So does that mean then that -- and this is to both of you -- that you think Lucent is well-positioned to lead the revolution in fiber optics? 

 DISANZA: Along with the other two. 

 CENA: Yes. Lucent is going to be one of three major dominant players. The ones that have to play catch-up, in my opinion, are the European wire line suppliers, whether it`s an Ericsson, an Alcatel (URL: http://www.alcatel.com/) , a Marconi (URL: http://www.marconi.ca/) , Siemens , and many of the Japanese. Those are the ones that have to play catch-up, the people who account for the other two-thirds of the marketplace. 

 BAY: Is it likely that Lucent will issue a tracking stock pegged with optical business, as some are speculating? 

 CENA: Well, tracking stocks excite Wall Street analysts and Wall Street investment bankers. 

 BAY: Certainly are hot these days. 

 CENA: But certainly, there`s a lot of value that can be unlocked at Lucent Technologies by issuing some sort of tracking stock on their fiber business. 

 BAY: When do we see Lucent stock rebound? Do we see it regaining its highs? 

 DISANZA: I think this is very, very similar to Nortel about five or six quarters ago. They disappointed. Everybody bailed out. You couldn`t get people to really think kindly of them for a little while. The stock was on a post-split basis around 14 at the time. And it`s now 120 five or six quarters later. And I think to focus on a near-term quarter is not my proclivity. I look at the second half of this year for Lucent as being the time. 

 In the fourth quarter, it could have, for example, a 50 percent increase in earnings per share. And if that happens, I think the stock will be back in vogue and you could get a double in the stock price by year end. 

 BAY: Just to recap, is Lucent a buy? 

 DISANZA: Absolutely. 

 CENA: Sometime in September. 

 BAY: Alex Cena, Charles DiSanza, thank you very much for joining us. 

 Coming up on MONEYLINE, it outmaneuvered the competition and now stands on top of the wireless world, but how does Nokia plan to keep its lead? The details when MONEYLINE returns. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: It`s a company that seemed to come out of nowhere, but now dominates a business that is suddenly growing everywhere. The company is Nokia. The business is wireless communications. And its headquarters is somewhere you might not expect. 

 Peter Viles has the report. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 PETER VILES, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): American companies may dominate the wired world, but in wireless technology, America is a latecomer and the world leader is Finland. What Wall Street is to money, what Hollywood is to movies, Finland is to the cellular phone. Six out of 10 Fins carry one, a penetration rate double that of the United States. 

 When stock analysts want to see the future of wireless applications, they go to Helsinki, because the world`s leading wireless phone maker is Finland`s Nokia, a slimmed down conglomerate that has outmaneuvered, outhustled and outinnovated competitors Motorola (URL: http://www.mot.com/) and Ericsson. 

 ROB GENSLER, TELECOM ANALYST, T. ROWE PRICE: If you really want to get to the core of Nokia and what makes them great is the pace of innovation. And as long as they keep the pace of innovation up, they will have very great growth and phenomenal margins. 

 VILES: That innovation included the realization that many customers want a phone that`s also the fashion statement: fun, stylish and easy to use. 

 GENSLER: They have a keen eye for design. They understood far before anybody else that what made handsets powerful was the fact that people were using them and enjoyed using them and design mattered. 

 VILES: Nokia`s growth has been stunning. In 1997, it sold 21 million phones, 20 percent of the global market, 41 million the next year, and 72 million last year, good for 30 percent of the wireless market, which is why Nokia`s stock has also exploded, up nearly 700 percent over the past two years -- impressive for a company that some consumers still assume is just another Japanese electronics brand. 

 K-P WILSKA, PRESIDENT, NOKIA: Because our name looks like Japanese name, even though I don`t look too much Japanese. 

 VILES: Wall Street sees the company`s Finnish base as an advantage. It gives Nokia daily access to a test market of 5 million, a market where Nokia phones are capable of transmitting short text messages, downloading weather reports from the Internet, even talking to other machines and paying for Cokes. 

 WILSKA: We can foresee that three years, five years from now, people are paying their bills by using their phones. They can go to grocery store, and instead of swiping their debit or credit card, they can point their phone at the cash register and pay their bill by using their phone. 

 VILES: The great opportunity for Nokia is also the great threat. What happens as more and more Internet access is wireless? If everyone from Microsoft to Panasonic wants to build a new pocket computer, will Nokia`s advantage last? 

 MARK MCKECHNIE, BANK OF AMERICA SECURITIES: I think it`s going to be interesting to watch the new entrants into this space, such as the Palm, such as HandSpring , who`s got the Visor product. And so Nokia will have to maintain their leadership, will have to innovate quicker than they to stay ahead of it. But net-net, we think they`ve got the management strength, the history, and the relationships with carriers and the brand name to maintain that leadership. 

 VILES (on camera): With or without all these Internet applications, the wireless market is exploding. It grew by 50 percent last year alone to 450 million users around the planet. And Nokia predicts that by 2002, 1 billion people will use cellular phones. 

 Peter Viles, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: Coming up, how will Nokia solidify its leadership in the wireless market? The president of Nokia, K-P Wilska, joins us next on MONEYLINE. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Coming up, how will Nokia solidify its leadership in the wireless market? The president of Nokia, K-P Wilska, joins us next on MONEYLINE. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: It`s one of the world`s leading makers of wireless phones. But how does Nokia plan to hold on to its edge in the future? 

 Stuart Varney recently spoke to the president of Nokia, K-P Wilska, from Dallas, Texas. 

 Stuart began by asking about the company`s plans for the future. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 STUART VARNEY, CNNfn ANCHOR: Sir, how far away are you from introducing a phone that allows me to access e-commerce on the Net? For example, I`m walking along, I want to buy a book from Amazon.com (URL: http://www.amazon.com/) . How far away are you from introducing that kind of phone that will let me do that? 

 WILSKA: Sir, we have actually launched that kind of product and in Europe. And in over there, where the map services are available you can buy a book or you can buy whatever devices are sold on the Internet by using our phone over there. And we will have the similar phone on the market in the United States during the summer this year. 

 VARNEY: You can do this alone? You don`t need any help accessing the Internet with your wireless cell phones? You don`t need any help from -- with that? 

 WILSKA: Sir, the help -- of course you have to have a services. You have to have a Internet Web site, which is letting you to buy and then you have the network is having a service -- server, where you connect with your wireless device. And then you just call in and follow the prompts, and in a click you can do the purchase. 

 VARNEY: But what I`m getting at is do you need an American partner? Because it`s American companies that know the Net. It`s your company that knows mobile phone, wireless phones. Do you need an American partner? 

 WILSKA: There are lots of different Web providers who will provide these purchase services. And most likely we would love to do that with one of those, and not to build our own Web service. Because we are not specialists in that area. 

 VARNEY: So you are looking for an American partner at this point  to put your cell phones into Net access directly? 

 WILSKA: We are talking with several companies right now on the possibilities of what this (UNINTELLIGIBLE) is going to enable. 

 VARNEY: What kind of competition do you face in this? Because as Web access becomes more of a concern to consumers, surely the giants of the business, the giants of the Internet business, are going to be your direct competitors for this, aren`t they? 

 WILSKA: Sir, the competition is coming from several fronts. Of course, one front is that currently the Internet is used by PCs, so that the PCs at home or in the office are using the Internet. We believe that in the future, let`s say some three, four, five, years ahead, the primary uses of Internet is coming from the mobile devices like mobile phones. And then in that sense the companies, the current Internet users and personal computers -- and then of course there are lots of other wireless device providers who are our competition  as well. 

 VARNEY: So your challenge, then, is to move from being a hand- set/cell phone maker and producer to become a hand-held Internet access provider? That`s the challenge you face in the immediate years ahead? 

 WILSKA: Yes, you could say that way. That`s one of the challenges what we are facing. We faced a similar situation a few years ago when we were moving in the wireless voice communication. And at that time, the challenge was to land-line or normal telecommunication or all telephony. And that challenge has now passed, and we can see that wireless communication is a winner in that. And we definitely believe that in this Internet challenge, the wireless devices are going to be winners as well. 

 VARNEY: You face also, don`t you, a price and cost challenge here. For example, a Gem Plus (ph), which is a French company, has a $10 chip that can turn a European cell phone into a Web surfer. And that`s a great deal cheaper than your $500 Web phone. Don`t you face some price competition? 

 WILSKA: They are probably not exactly the comparable things to talk about, what they are doing and what our total, complete wireless device is doing. But the price competition is (UNINTELLIGIBLE) different technologies, and in (UNINTELLIGIBLE) we have a price competition which is coming and where Nokia has been very good at, to provide products with -- which give these services at affordable price for consumers. 

 VARNEY: Mr. Wilska, we thank you very much indeed for joining us tonight. Thank you, sir. WILSKA: Thank you. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: That was Stuart Varney speaking to K-P Wilska, the president of Nokia. 

 Coming up in the next half hour of MONEYLINE, Stuart sits down with the world`s richest man, Microsoft`s Bill gates on Windows 2000 and his new role with the company. 

 Plus, we`ll check out what`s in store with Seagram, the Canadian whiskey maker that fell in love with Hollywood. 

 And a look at accountant who`s trying to put the roar back in MGM, one of the most storied studios in movie history. 

 Stay tuned. MONEYLINE will be right back. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 On this special holiday edition of MONEYLINE, we go one on one with Bill Gates on the roll-out of Windows 2000 and on life after giving up the CEO job at Microsoft. 

 After $50 billion in deals in five years, Seagram may be poised for its biggest media play yet, only this time, is it a sale? 

 And a Hollywood legend has finally landed in the floodlights of Wall Street, the turnaround of MGM (URL: http://www.mgm.com/) . 

 We begin tonight with the latest milestone for Microsoft (URL: http://www.microsoft.com/) . Last week, the software giant launched Windows 2000, but the celebration comes at a time when the business operating system faces intense criticism from analysts and from the European Union, which has launched an investigation into whether Windows 2000 violates antitrust laws. 

 Steve Young has more from the Windows 2000 launch expo in San Francisco. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 STEVE YOUNG, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Five years after launching its consumer product Windows `95 in a carnival atmosphere, Microsoft finally got down to serious business. Analysts say its long delayed operating system Windows 2000 runs networks for Fortune 500 companies and dot.coms better than Windows NT which it replaces. 

 BILL GATES, CHMN., MICROSOFT: It was the most ambitious software project ever done. It represents over a $2 billion engineering investment, a 5,000 person team. 

 BRIAN LIVINGSTON, AUTHOR, "WINDOWS 2000 SECRETS": Windows 2000 is really a make-it or break-it product for Microsoft. Corporations have been waiting four years for an upgrade to Microsoft Windows NT. Now they have it in Windows 2000. 

 YOUNG: Microsoft will sell four versions of the software, priced from less than $200 to more than $4,000. The company doesn`t project sales for Windows 2000 or anything else. But the business desktop market alone offers a huge opportunity. 

 MARK SPECKER, MIT-SOUNDVIEW: Give or take maybe 180 million PC`s worldwide that are actively used by corporations. They`re, you know, managed. Someone comes in everyday and uses that PC. And I think they are all candidates for Windows 2000. 

 YOUNG: But some experts have questioned whether it`s fully compatible with current business applications. And one competitor, Novell (URL: http://www.Novell.com/) , is raising security concerns. Several independent reviewers agree it`s much more stable than Windows NT, a polite way of saying it crashes less. 

 In the biggest wow-moment of the launch, Microsoft showed how Windows 2000 can run a gazillion servers. The industry calls that scalability. Reviewers say it will also do a better job with notebook PC`s. 

 SCOTT BERINATO, "PCWEEK" MAGAZINE: They have a lot more reliability. They`ll crash a lot less. It`s one of the features that people are really excited about on notebooks. 

 YOUNG (on camera): But if you`re thinking about upgrading to Windows 2000 to play games, forget about it. It won`t operate about three quarters of existing video game titles. Microsoft promises a new version for you in about a year. Right now, Windows 2000 is all about business. 

 Steve Young, CNN Financial News, San Francisco. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: With more on Windows 2000 as well as the software giant`s battle with the Justice Department, Stuart Varney went to San Francisco to speak with Bill Gates. He began by asking the Microsoft chairman how important Windows 2000 is to the company`s Internet strategy. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY (on camera): Is Windows 2000 a transition product for Microsoft that takes you from the PC world to the Net? 

 GATES: Well, our last big Windows introduction was in 1995 with Windows 95, and it`s really after that, that the Internet started to take off, and so making sure this is the best platform for the Internet has been a key part of the design of Windows 2000. 

 VARNEY: It`s a strategy move. It`s where you`re taking Microsoft in the future, is it? 

 GATES: Well, the world as a whole is now taking advantage of the Internet, and I think everybody understands it`s a revolution in how we do business. Having great software that lets your people see digital information, lets them collaborate, lets you build a great Web site, that`s going to be very, very important for all companies going forward, and Windows 2000 is the key platform where that starts. 

 VARNEY: Did you do anything different with Windows 2000 that you wouldn`t have done had it not been for the government`s antitrust case against you? Any impact from them at all? 

 GATES: Well, one thing that Microsoft has been great at is staying focused on what really counts, focused on improving the reliability of its systems, making innovative breakthroughs, working with partners, and Windows 2000 is the best illustration of that. 

 VARNEY: You`ve got a problem, though, haven`t you? If you achieve the dominance with Windows 2000 that you`ve had in the past, if you achieve that, the government`s going to step on you really hard. 

 GATES: You know, if there`s any part of the economy that`s delivered for all the citizens, it`s got to be the work that we and our partners in our industry have done. 

 VARNEY: You`ve got a legal challenge from the European Union; state attorneys general in the United States, another legal challenge; the Justice Department, a legal challenge. Would you think that you`re at the point where the lawyers are beginning to tie you down, tie your hands just a little? 

 GATES: No, absolutely not. The work that we do is about designing great software, whether it`s Windows, Microsoft Office, the server-type software we do. We`re in a very competitive field which is always changing, and that`s why we have to make revolutionary steps. 

 You know, if it wasn`t for going for graphical interface with Windows, where we bet the company, moving up to the new Windows NT code base, things like Windows 2000, Microsoft wouldn`t be around. 

 VARNEY: Do you have a public relations problem in the sense that you are a vigorous competitor -- that`s who you are and that`s who Microsoft is -- but you cannot appear to be aggressively competing too much, you mustn`t have that as your public image? 

 GATES: I never expected Microsoft to be so successful, and they have this incredible reputation for delivering on great software. That`s something we have to live up to. We`ve got to keep working with those customers, and they have needs. You know, they want the products to be better. We see a lot of opportunities going forward. So, you know, we`re not ashamed at all of the great work we do. We`re not ashamed that we`ve taken the low-price, high-volume approach here, which is different than the competitors, who are trying to get a leg up from the government. 

 VARNEY: Could I ask you a question about the recent hacking incidents? Charles Wang, who runs Computer Associates (URL: http://www.cai.com) , used the word "crisis" recently in his meeting at the White House. Would you go that far? Have we got a crisis with these hackers on the Net? 

 GATES: Well, certainly the Internet has become so important that just like the electric system or the water system, you know, people have to see that we are very dependent on that continuing to operate quite effectively. There are some architectural changes that are 

 going to be needed as we evolve that, but I wouldn`t say that things are falling apart. Every day the Internet comes up, people get a lot done. People who try to interfere with the Net are most likely going to be tracked down. And so I think the incentives to avoid that are going to be very clear. 

 VARNEY: Microsoft was invited to the conference. Would you have  gone personally had you been personally invited by President Clinton? 

 GATES: Well, I`m very involved in these security issues. It`s really a critical thing as the Internet has become so important. I`ve been involved in the dialogue with the government about this as a key part of the infrastructure that we`ve got to make sure has the right protections. And so although I didn`t go to that meeting, it is something that I am very involved with. 

 VARNEY: Bill Gates, Microsoft, thanks very much for being with us on MONEYLINE. Thank you, sir. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: Coming up, a host of deals put Seagram on the map in Hollywood, but has it paid off on its bottom line? We will take a look. 

 And we`ll speak to John Tinker and David Londoner about the rapid changes in the media world. MONEYLINE will be right back. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: It`s a Canadian company that fell in love with Hollywood, we`re talking about Seagram. And just over a week ago, it blew past Wall Street profit expectations. But over the past few years its stock has not exactly been a Wall Street darling, and recently, CEO Edgar Bronfman Jr. has had to address recurrent rumors that he wants to sell part or all of Seagram. 

 Terry Keenan reports on the future of a movie and music empire. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 CELINE DION, SINGER (singing): Touch me once again and remember when... 

 TERRY KEENAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Celine Dion isn`t the only rich and famous Canadian behind this tune. The song was written by Edgar Bronfman Jr., a part-time songwriter and full-time CEO of the  world`s biggest music company. 

 The star-struck business man: It`s an image that has dogged Bronfman during a decade at the helm of his family`s multibillion- dollar empire, the third generation of Bronfman`s who built their fortune in the spirits business and then spiked it with rich dividends from a 24 percent stake in DuPont (URL: http://www.dupont.com/)  . Bronfman Jr. turned his family empire upside down beginning in 1995, when he started selling the family jewels and buying the trophy properties of Tinseltown. 

 JOHN TINKER, STEAMER CAPITAL: Bronfman has a problem whatever happens, as by definition he`s No. 3. So if he`s successful he inherited it, if he`s not successful it`s because he`s No. 3. And there`s always a tendency for anyone who`s in the media or entertainment business to enjoy that business. In his case, some of the criticism might be valid in that he didn`t actually have to build up the assets himself. By being in his position, he was able to buy in. 

 KEENAN: And buy in he has. In deal after deal, Bronfman has called the shots in more than $50 billion worth of transactions in recent years, selling DuPont to pay for Universal Studios, selling Tropicana orange juice to by music leader PolyGram . Along the way, Bronfman has clearly had a lot of fun, enjoying the limelight if not the harsh light of Wall Street analysts, who often dismissed him as a rich kid dabbling in the wrong business. 

 Since going Hollywood in 1995, Seagram`s stock has dramatically under- performed the market, rising only half as fast as the S&P 500. 

 JILL GOLDSMITH, N.Y. BUSINESS EDITOR, "VARIETY": It`s been a very interesting journey for him, I think. You know, before the Polygram deal a lot of people on Wall Street and in the industry just, you know, they had a lot of doubts about his ability to lead the company. 

 KEENAN: But that perception is slowly changing. While Seagram`s movie business remains a challenge, Bronfman`s biggest bet, on music, is looking good. Stirred by the potential of downloading music on the Internet, investors have finally started rewarding Seagram stock. 

 CHRIS DIXON, PAINEWEBBER: The long-term story is intact: good, solid results, the opportunity to invest and participate in the extraordinary opportunities as the Internet takes hold in the music industry. So it has to be a core holding in any entertainment portfolio. 

 KEENAN (on camera): The question now is what businesses Bronfman believes are core holdings for Seagram. In recent weeks, there has been intense speculation that Bronfman was shopping all or parts of his media empire, rumors Bronfman has strongly denied. 

 TINKER: He`s getting particularly annoyed by these inaccurate stories, so we`re probably in the camp that it is not for sale. That doesn`t mean that there may not be different kinds of deals that emerge. 

 KEENAN (voice-over): At the top of the list, a deal that will answer the competitive threat posed by AOL`s (URL: http://www.aol.com/) record purchase of Time Warner. To do that, Bronfman will almost certainly have to hook up with an Internet company and cut other deals along the way. That will leave little time for songwriting. But if he can pull it off, Bronfman may finally get the applause from Wall Street that has eluded him for so long. 

 Terry Keenan, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: Joining us now with more on how Seagram and other companies will fight to grab market share in this new media world, John Tinker, managing partner at Steamer Capital, and David Londoner, a managing director at Schroder. 

 Gentelmen, welcome. 

 BAY: David, let`s start with you: Is Mr. Bronfman looking to cash in on his rising stock price? Is he looking to sell the company? 

 DAVID LONDONER, SCHRODER: I doubt it very much. 

 BAY: Why? 

 LONDONER: It`s just -- you know, this is the family company. He`s bought music. He bought it -- what? -- two years ago. He hasn`t really seen the benefits of it yet. And I think he loves the business. We know he loves the business. I don`t think he has any interest whatsoever in selling it. And he keeps telling us that, by the way. 

 BAY: John, we know you think it`s not for sale. But don`t you suspect they`re at least talking, that everybody is talking in this new media landscape? 

 TINKER: I think some assets are going to change hands. The whole AOL- Time Warner (URL: http://www.timewarner.com/) deal has changed everybody`s view as to size and where they are. And there`s definitely some tension between Seagram`s and USA Networks, and that has to be resolved. 

 BAY: Is that a liability in any potential deal-making? 

 TINKER: Well, I think the problem is Seagram`s made a very smart investment in USA Networks, and financially it`s worked. But in order for Diller, who runs USA Networks (URL: http://www.usanetwork.com/) , to keep moving he has to do deals. And the feeling is that Seagram`s has held him back, perhaps incorrectly. 

 BAY: What is the real value for another media company of Seagram? Is it the music? 

 LONDONER: In the content, in this broad generalization. But I think you have to understand that when a major, signature deal like AOL-Time Warner takes place, everybody talks to everybody else: How do we make money out of this? Can we do alliances? Can we do deals together? Not necessarily selling out. 

 BAY: What does the future hold for Seagram? Is -- are their days of underperforming the S&P gone forever? 

 LONDONER: Well, we think that -- Scott Davis is the one who follows this directly. But we feel that the stock can go further. You`re coming up to the point now where the cash flow really starts to rise. You have easier comparisons and you`re getting the benefits from the synergies with Universal Music and Polygram that are just going to take effect, you know, over the next six months. And I think that`s probably going to keep the momentum going in the stock. 

 BAY: Do you agree? Would you be recommending investors put their money in Seagram? 

 TINKER: I think I`m putting them on neutral position until the results from the music business are seen. Bronfman`s big bet is he can  sell music online. If he can, it`s far more profitable because you cut out the middle man. But that -- the results have yet to be seen. 

 BAY: "Waiting for bradband" I believe that`s called. 

 (LAUGHTER) 

 We`ll leave it that. We`ll have more from our media roundtable a little later in the program. But coming up next, a Hollywood star is reborn: a look at the man behind the dramatic turnaround at MGM when MONEYLINE returns. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Now for a story right of Hollywood. MGM, one of the most recognizable names on the silver screen, has staged a stunning comeback. And now the movie studio is setting its sights on something even bigger. 

 Casey Wian has more from Los Angeles. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 CASEY WIAN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): MGM Chairman Alex Yemenidjian is trying to revive Hollywood`s last independent film studio and shake up the movie business at the same time. 

 ALEX YEMENIDJIAN, CHAIRMAN & CEO, MGM: I particularly respond very well to situations where people say it can`t be done. That`s when you go into overdrive. 

 WIAN: To borrow a title from one Oscar-winning MGM film, the studio was nearly gone with the wind after a series of ownership and management upheavals that culminated in a de facto film production halt in 1996. Along came Kirk Kekorian, who by 1998 bought nearly 90 percent of MGM`s stock. Last April, he put former MGM Grand Casino boss Yemenidjian in charge of the studio. 

 (on camera): An accountant by training, Yemenidjian immediately sought to bring fiscal discipline to a money-losing operation. He laid off 6 percent of MGM`s staff, ended several unattractive production agreements, and sought new distribution channels for MGM`s valuable library of more than 4,000 films. 

 (voice-over): So far the moves have paid off. For the first time in 12 years, MGM is profitable, thanks largely to the $300 million box-office hit "The World Is Not Enough." But the James Bond film was made under previous management. 

 Future MGM movies will conform to new anti-Hollywood rules. Instead of a single studio chief green-lighting a film, MGM plans to involve its production, distribution, marketing, finance, and legal departments from the beginning. 

 YEMENIDJIAN: I don`t think it is rational to green light a picture in a vacuum, spend $50 or $70 million making a motion picture, and then going 

 to the head of marketing and saying, here, market this picture, when the head of marketing had nothing to do and no input with all the elements that would make a picture marketable. 

 WIAN: Wall Street has taken notice. MGM stock has roughly doubled since Yemenidjian took the helm. 

 JEFF LOGSDON, THE SEIDLER COS.: They have really redesigned the production process and I think that there`s a much more disciplined approach and a much more rational approach. I think, secondly, you know, they are exploiting the library at a much more rapid pace. The cash flow has accelerated nicely. 

 WIAN: Now MGM is setting its sights on bigger prey, competing with the media conglomerates that now dominate the movie business. 

 YEMENIDJIAN: Clearly, critical mass is important in this industry as we look to vertically integrate into distribution, cable, satellite, television station groups, the Internet, all those areas. Either mergers or acquisitions down the line are inevitable for a company like us. 

 WIAN: For now, MGM is laying in wait, signing co-production deals with rivals such as Disney and Fox to minimize its risk on the road to recovery. 

 Casey Wian, CNN Financial News, Los Angeles. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: Coming up, our media roundtable joins us once again with a look at MGMs latest plans and more, when MONEYLINE returns. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: The blockbuster deal between AOL and Time Warner, the parent of this network, has certainly changed the landscape of the media world. So how will MGM and other companies compete? 

 Joining us once again, John Tinker, managing partner at Steamer Capital, and David Londoner, a managing director at Schroder. 

 Welcome back. We just heard Mr. Yemenidjian say he wanted to vertically integrate. He was possibly looking to do that with MGM. Should they? 

 TINKER: Absolutely. 

 LONDONER: Sure. 

 BAY: You`re in agreement. 

 LONDONER: Yes. 

 TINKER: There`s no way a small -- relatively small stand-alone studio can survive in today`s world. 

 BAY: In today`s world, has content become more valuable? 

 LONDONER: I believe so. I think you`re getting broadened means of distribution through, ultimately, the Internet, through, of course, cable, satellite, et cetera. They`re all competing to get the early windows for the content to be -- to have it on first. And what that does is it raises the asking price for the content. 

 BAY: So should an MGM be looking for an Internet deal? Should they be looking for a cable deal? All of the above? 

 TINKER: In the short term, they need a cable deal, but the open area is obviously Internet. And one of the -- you can see the changes with a number of small production companies coming out of nowhere with these short films on the Internet, which may not be profitable today but as the world changes -- what you don`t want to do is lock yourself into an old-fashioned kind of deal which solves yesterday`s problem. 

 BAY: Big-picture outlook for media stocks this year: Will it be a good year? 

 LONDONER: It will be all right. I don`t think it`s going to be exceptional. You`ve had... 

 BAY: Why not? 

 LONDONER: Well, you`ve had a terrific year in 1999. And the valuations on these have gotten a little on the pricy side. It`s hard to think that they can make another big move the way they did in `99. 

 BAY: Will the advertising environment which has driven so many of the companies, particularly those with television, continue to drive growth the way it has? 

 LONDONER: Big. 

 BAY: Yes? Big? 

 LONDONER: Advertising should be good this year. 

 TINKER: I actually think that`s quite -- it`s controversial. On the one hand, you have all the dot.com companies still coming public, and they`re going to use all of their equity money to buy time on television or radio. And that certainly is in the bank for a while. But on the other hand, the economy might slow. And as interest rates keep going up, you can see as the specialty retail stocks 

 have collapsed that there are definite risks on the Wall Street side. 

 LONDONER: But you do have the elections, though. And that`s going to put incremental dollars into the stream, which kind of drives up the price of all the other stuff. 

 BAY: Let`s talk specifics a little bit, some of the big names -- Time Warner, Disney, CBS/Viacom (URL: http://www.viacom.com/) , New Corps -- would you be putting money into those? 

 LONDONER: We still like Viacom/CBS (URL: http://www.cbs.com/) for just the reason I was talking about, the world`s largest combined advertising medium. 

 TINKER: I actually -- notwithstanding what I said on advertising -- like Viacom/CBS a lot, but it`s partly because the coming together of two companies creates a real powerhouse. And they`re also very international. And now with Mel Karmizan they have one of the toughest operators in the business who can control costs as well. 

 BAY: Gentlemen, thanks for joining us -- John Tinker, David Londoner. 

 Up next, "Ahead of the Curve," some of what you need to know tonight before the markets open tomorrow. 

 You are watching MONEYLINE. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Wall Street gets back from the holiday weekend to face some  key indicators as to whether the economy has kept up it`s torrid pace. 

 On the docket this week, the latest figures on durable goods orders, fourth-quarter Gross Domestic Product and existing home sales. 

 Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan will give the second part of his Humphrey-Hawkins testimony. 

 And on the earnings front, we`ll get reports from Dow component Home Depot, plus Nextel (URL: http://www.nextel.com/) and Clear Channel Communications (URL: http://www.clearchannel.com/) . 

 That`s MONEYLINE for this Monday. I`m Willow Bay. Thanks for joining us. Good night from New York. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by   eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal  use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright  or other proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific  license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material.  This is not a legal transcript for purposes of  litigation. 

Document mnyl000020010808dw2l0006m




 Market queries wisdom of Alcatel buying Newbridge. 

 By Gillian Handyside 
628 words
18 February 2000
16:25
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 PARIS, Feb 18 (Reuters) - Aquiring Canada's Newbridge Networks Corp would improve the product portfolio of French telecoms equipment maker Alcatel  but undermine its short term share price, analysts said on Friday. 

 Alcatel shares tumbled on Friday on rumours it was mulling a capital increase to fund a takeover of the struggling network service provider, seen as a poor investment by the market. 

 At 1534 GMT Alcatel was down 7.35 percent at an intraday low of 240 euros. The French blue chip CAC-40 index was off 1.59 percent at the time. 

 "The interest for Alcatel would be Newbridge's ATM equipment... And Newbridge has just won a big ATM contract with Alcatel's biggest customer, France Telecom ," analyst Anita Farrell at Merrill Lynch told Reuters. 

 "I guess the upside for Alcatel has to be that it would fill its product gap," said a London-based analyst who declined to be identified. "Newbridge has a 13 percent share of the market for ATM and earns 43 percent of ite revenue in the United States, a market where Alcatel wants to be and where it has not had a strong pres ence in the past," he said. 

 ATM (asynchronous transfer mode) technology enables switching between voice and data transmission and is expected to be used for the next five to 10 years before being replaced by Internet Protocol technology for combined voice and data. 

 A Paris-based trader said he also thought Alcatel and Newbridge were technically a good fit. "Newbridge makes ATM switches for the backbone of wide-area networks (WAN), which would give Alcatel 15-20 percent of the world market," he said. 

 NEWBRIDGE BUY COULD WEIGH ON SHARES 

 But analysts said acquiring Newbridge, a possibility on which both Alcatel or Newbridge refuse to comment, could undermine Alcatel's share price in the short term. 

 Buying Newbridge - which has issued six profit warnings in the last 10 quarters - would be risky, expensive and probably dilute Alcatel's 2000 earnings per share (EPS), they said. 

 "Either they pay in shares, in which case they would have to issue new ones, or they pay in cash, which would take Alcatel's gearing from around 19 percent to 60 or 70 percent," one Paris-based analyst said. 

 The London analyst said Alcatel's cash position was weak and any transaction was likely to be a paper one. 

 A share swap would have a dilutive impact of between five and 10 percent on Alcatel's EPS in 2000, be neutral in 2002 and only positive from 2003, Paris analysts said. 

 Buying Newbridge could weigh on Alcatel's share price for several months, the London analyst said. 

 Wary investors had recently begun to show more faith in Alcatel, whose share price recoverd from a 68-euro low in October 1998 to hit a high of 284.9 euros on February 4, 2000, outperforming the French market. But they remained jumpy. 

 "There is a risk of the market not giving Alcatel's mangement credibility. It it's a choice between trusting or not trusting, the market still leans towards the latter," he said. 

 Alcatel issued a profit warning in September 1998 which caused the share price to plummet 40 percent in one day as investors questioned the ability of the company's management. 

 "If they announced a takeover of Newbridge, the share price could trade sidewards for a quarter until investors had more proof it was a good deal. A price of 235 is a distinct possibility," the London analyst said. ((Additional reporting by Sophie Walker and Juliette Rouillon, Paris newsroom + 33 1 4221 5452, fax + 33 1 4236 1072, paris.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw2i072wn




 RESEARCH ALERT - Cambridge Tech target  cut  to $35. 

151 words
18 February 2000
16:08
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Feb 18 (Reuters) - Lehman Brothers said on Friday that it cut the price target on computer consultant Cambridge Technology Partners Inc.  to $35 from $40. 

 - Cambridge's 4Q99 results were weak, as expected, and the outlook is now cloudier given the delayed recovery in traditional information technology services, continued high turnover and the material drop in EPS guidance. 

 - On Thursday the company reported a loss of $17.3 million, or 28 cents a share, which is slightly better than its October profit warning of a 29 cents a share loss. 

 - While there is a compelling transition story for long-term holders, near-term multiple expansion is limited. However, Lehman said it reiterated its outperform rating. 

 Shares were down 1-1/16 at 16 in trade on the Nasdaq stock exchange. ((-New York technology desk, (212) 859-1860)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw2i072bq




 Cambridge Tech sees losses in first half of 2000. 

424 words
17 February 2000
15:08
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Feb 17 (Reuters) - Computer consultant Cambridge Technology Partners Inc.  on Thursday posted a fourth-quarter loss, the latest in a string of disappointments as the company seeks to shift from installing conventional business software to Web-based systems. 

 The company, which also forecast a loss and flat revenues for the first half of 2000, has battled employee defections and weaker revenues from a slowdown in corporate spending stemming from fears of Year 2000 computer glitches. 

 It reported a loss of $17.3 million, or 28 cents a share, slightly better than its October profit warning of 29 cents a share, but far worse than its profit of $16.3 million, or 26 cents a share in the fourth quarter of 1998. 

 Its loss would have been even worse without its 24-cent-per-share gain from its share in the Cambridge Technology Investment Fund. 

 The Wall Street consensus estimate was a 30 cent a share loss, as compiled by First Call/Thomson Financial. Prior to the warning, its estimate was a profit of 16 cents a share. 

 Cambridge Technology shares spent the better part of 1999 languishing between 10-13/16 and 21-1/16 amid disappointing earnings. 

 After spiking in December to 10-month high of 27, the share price has since retreated, and was trading 50 cents lower on Thursday at $17.50. 

 The company is in the process of shifting its focus to providing software and services to companies seeking to move their businesses onto the Web, from complex software used to connect operations within a large company. 

 The company's fourth-quarter revenue totalled $145 million, a 9 percent decline from the year ago period at $160 million. 

 The company said fourth-quarter sales its "e-Business solutions" totalled $69.3 million, a 45 percent improvement over the fourth quarter of 1998. The business represented 48 percent of its total revenue. 

 The company said its transition toward "e-Business" is continuing "at an accelerated pace," but added that employee turnover and continued slowdown in contracts to install other business software would remain an issue. 

 "The company ... expects to continue its loss position in the first half of 2000 based on flat revenues compared to the first half of the prior year, and the need to make strategic investments to fund the Company's growth," the company said in a statement. 

 Cambridge expects continued growth in its e-Business revenues. ((New York Newsroom, 212-859-1700)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw2h07caf




 Managers & Managing: Major U.S. Companies Register Surge Of 31% in Final Quarter Net Income --- About 65% of Companies Exceeded Expectations of Forecasters --- Economy's Strength, Productivity Gain Aided Corporate America   

 By Natalie Blitt The Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition   
1,937 words
17 February 2000
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
33
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

 The last quarter of 1999 brought one surprise after another: U.S. economic growth sizzled, year-2000 worries fizzled and corporate profits surged beyond expectations.   

 It was "a terrific quarter," says Chuck Hill, director of research at First Call/Thomson Financial. "We thought the third quarter would be the peak for a while," he says. But, taking into account that the fourth quarter of 1998 was much stronger than the preceding quarter, the last period of 1999 "shows better earnings growth."   

 Net income of major U.S. companies surged 31% in the fourth quarter of 1999. Net profit from continuing operations, which excludes one-time accounting entries, grew 33%. The figures are based on 564 of the earliest reporting U.S. companies in the Dow Jones Global Indexes.   

 "The headline of the earnings season is that earnings came through once again very strong, surprising analysts," says Joseph McAlinden, chief investment officer at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Funds. "At the beginning of 1999, economists and strategists were looking at single-digit growth for 1999. Right now, full-year earnings for 1999 (for companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index) are up 18%."   

 With 82% of the companies in the S&P reporting results, earnings topped estimates 65% of the time, matched 22% of the time and fell short 13% of the time, according to First Call. That's a far better performance for corporate America than the norm; over the past six years, companies have topped estimates only 56% of the time on average and have fallen short 26% of the time.   

 The amount by which earnings outpaced expectations was surprising, as well. According to First Call, the gap narrowed each quarter during the first nine months of the year. Operating earnings came in 5.6% higher than expected in the first quarter, 4.1% in the second, and 3% in the third.   

 But in the fourth quarter, the gap suddenly widened -- spurting back up to 5.1%. Leading the pack were those stalwart growth sectors -- technology and financial services -- and one sleeper cyclical -- basic materials.   

 The economy, which is in its 107th month of growth, a U.S. record, was one major factor. Gross domestic product -- the total value of all goods and services produced in the economy -- grew at an annual rate of 5.8% in the fourth quarter of 1999, while the unemployment rate stood at 4.1%.   

 Perhaps more important was worker productivity, a figure high on U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan's watch list, which surged at a 5% annual rate in the fourth quarter, marking its sharpest gain since the end of 1992.   

 "The American worker is putting out more and being more efficient," says Peter Cardillo, director of research at Westfalia Investments Inc. "Even though we have higher interest rates, it's not suppressing the earnings outlook. It's part of the new economy we are in."   

 "And this new economy, nobody understands it," Mr. Cardillo adds. "Analysts don't understand it. Mr. Greenspan doesn't understand it. The real question is how long is it going to surprise everyone? How long can we go before things begin to settle down?"   

 The strongest reversals in performance showed up in the energy and basic-materials sectors. In the first quarter of 1999, core earnings for the S&P energy sector dropped 45% and for the S&P basic-materials sector plunged 21% from a year earlier. By the fourth quarter, things had turned around: Earnings for energy companies doubled from the previous-year period and net at basic-materials companies jumped 47%, according to S&P. The results surprised analysts: The energy sector topped estimates by 5% while the basic-materials group beat expectations by 8%.   

 (According to Wall Street Journal statistics, the energy sector reversed a year-earlier loss in the fourth quarter, while the basic-materials group posted a loss. Figures based on S&P groups and Dow Jones Global Index groups differ in many cases because of disparities in the companies that are included in the indexes.)   

 In the basic-materials sector, Alcoa Inc. dazzled Wall Street with a 53% jump in net income, helped by successful cost-reduction plan and a strong aluminum industry, where prices hit the roof amid an increase in world-wide demand. Georgia-Pacific Group, benefiting from a recovery in prices for pulp, paper and cardboard boxes, said net income surged almost sevenfold.   

 As foreign oil producers cut back on production, crude prices in the 1999 fourth quarter were about twice as high as the $13 (13.24 euros) a barrel logged a year earlier. The result is that Exxon Mobil Corp., Chevron Corp., Texaco Inc. and Conoco Inc. all posted profits several times higher than the fourth quarter of 1998.   

 It's only going to get better for the once-beleaguered sectors if crude-oil prices remain strong, near 10-year highs. Morgan Stanley's Mr. McAlinden estimates that earnings for the S&P basic-materials sector will increase 55% in first quarter of 2000 from a year earlier, and profits among energy companies will shoot 150% higher.   

 But what fattened up the coffers at oil companies hurt the airline industry. Jet-fuel costs have risen in tandem with oil, while a slowdown in travel at year end because of Y2K fears cut into revenue at big carriers. Operating income rose slightly at Northwest Airlines and UAL Corp., the parent of United Airlines. But core earnings dropped at Continental Airlines, Southwest Airlines, Delta Air Lines and AMR Corp., the parent of American Airlines. In addition, about half of the carriers issued profit warnings for 2000.   

 Even so, those anemic earnings outpaced analysts' expectations.   

 "Analysts didn't realize how well the airlines had hedged on the fuel costs," says Mr. Hill, of First Call. "But at some point the higher fuel costs are going to start hurting them."   

 Among other performance laggards, Coca-Cola Co. reported its first loss in at least a decade, hurt by charges reflecting its overly ambitious investments in emerging markets. The current quarter got off to a bad start in January when the beverage giant announced it would take $1.6 billion in restructuring charges as its slashes 20% of its work force.   

 On first glance tobacco companies appeared to post stellar earnings, with Phillip Morris Cos. reporting a sixfold jump in net income and R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Holding Inc. narrowing its loss considerably from a year earlier. But when the effects of last year's enormous tobacco-litigation settlement in the U.S. and other one-time items are excluded, Philip Morris's profit increased only 2.7%, while earnings at R.J. Reynolds dropped 49%.   

 Meanwhile, earnings in the financial-services sector climbed 41% from a year earlier. The results for the S&P financial sector were 7% higher than the consensus estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call.   

 "Analysts missed the boat in the financial sector because of the brokerage firms and the banks with strong investment-banking units," says Mr. Hill. "We saw spectacular results from brokerage firms and investment banks. They plain crushed estimates. Regional banks and insurance companies saw business as usual." Results for the end of 1999 also appeared strong because performance a year earlier was so badly damaged by the global financial crisis.   

 Among brokerage firms, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. said fourth-quarter earnings soared more than fourfold, while Bear Stearns Cos.'s net income gained 80%. Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette Inc. reported that profit more than doubled, and Merrill Lynch & Co.'s earnings rose 34%.   

 Net income at Citigroup Inc. almost quadrupled while J.P. Morgan & Co.'s profit grew nearly fivefold. For large banks, earnings growth was slightly tamer though still solid: Chase Manhattan Corp.'s net rose 48% while Bank of America Corp.'s profit increased 64% and Bank One Corp.'s net jumped 82%.   

 The technology sector, a major source of attention, managed to eke out a 1% gain in net income, despite coming under pressure from hints of Y2K slowdowns, compoPnent shortages and a very strong 1998 quarter. The S&P technology sector was even able to outpace First Call's consensus estimates by 8%. "Technology earnings were stronger than people thought, helped by strong investment gains," Mr. Hill says. "Analysts were cautious after warnings of Y2K problems and component shortages."   

 Microsoft Corp. posted a better-than-expected 31% jump in operating income, helped by gains from its huge equity portfolio. However, the software giant warned that revenues may decline slightly this quarter, hurt by slowing corporate demand for personal computers.   

 International Business Machines Corp.'s early warning of anemic revenue and earnings was on the mark. The company posted an 11% drop in net income as potential customers delayed purchases because of Y2K concerns. Big Blue expects to bounce back, though, and has urged analysts not to lower their revenue and profit forecasts for 2000.   

 Amazon.com Inc., often considered a bellwether for the electronic-commerce industry, surprised analysts by announcing that while it accumulated its largest loss to date, losses would begin to narrow as recent investments in marketing and distribution start paying off. Sales -- the key figure in cyberspace these days -- more than tripled from the 1998 quarter, and soared 90% from the third quarter.   

 Intel Corp. surprised analysts by posting strong earnings despite Y2K fears, increased competition and some product shortages. The chip maker reported that operating income grew 15% for the fourth quarter and predicted a solid first quarter.   

 Its chief rival, Advanced Micro Devices Inc., posted a threefold increase in net income, blowing past Wall Street's expectations. AMD said strong demand for its Athlon microprocessor boosted revenue and helped it regain market share from Intel.   

 Results for the telecommunications sector were hurt by Lucent Technologies Inc., whose net income fell 51% after the company failed to anticipate customer demand for some of its newest gear and suffered from delayed purchases. Another telecom equipment maker, Qualcomm Inc., said its net income nearly quadrupled but warned sales of its mobile phones and chip sets may slip.   

 Still left to come are results for retailers, who traditionally report at the tail end of the earnings season. However, with discounters, specialty chains and department store posting the best December sales gains in seven years, a booming stock market and strong wage gains, earnings in the sector are expected to show solid growth.   

 Looking ahead to the first quarter, basic materials and energy -- and, of course, technology -- are expected again to lead the way with exceptional results. Analysts surveyed by First Call expect overall earnings growth for the first half of 2000 to be slightly lower than the growth recorded in the second half of 1999, but that's largely due to stronger comparison numbers in the previous-year period.   

 First Call expects companies in the S&P 500 to post first-quarter earnings growth of 19% and second-quarter growth of 16%. With the Fed expected to embark on a series of interest-rate increases to cool the economy, the outlook for the second half of 2000 is more difficult.   

 "The first half is in the bag for high-teens growth," says Mr. Hill of First Call. "The second half will depend on the Fed."   

Document wsje000020010814dw2h0033m




 Europe carmakers to see mixed results from sales boom. 

1,061 words
15 February 2000
13:42
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 ABSTRACT By Christine Tierney 

 FRANKFURT, Feb 15 (Reuters) - France's PSA Peugeot Citroen rode a surge in the European car market last year with its hugely successful Peugeot 206 compact, and analysts expect the company to lead the pack when it reports its 1999 results. 

 Other auto manufacturers will likely not fare as well in their earnings despite a record year in western Europe, where carefree consumers drove registrations above 15 million units for the first time. 

 "The problem with the sector continues to be overcapacity, which has resulted in severe price competition," said analyst Greg Melich at Morgan Stanley in London. 

 Car prices are also falling despite buoyant demand because of a price convergence accelerated by the single currency that has squeezed profit margins to about four percent of sales from more than seven percent in the late 1980s, Melich said. 

 Additionally, weak car sales in Latin America last year cut into profits at Fiat SpA of Italy and Volkswagen AG, while Renault SA was burdened by the charges taken by its Japanese partner Nissan Motor Co Ltd. 

 Renault will start off the earnings reporting season on Thursday, issuing its full-year results after the Paris bourse's close at 1600 GMT. 

 Fiat will report its numbers on Friday, the Peugeot group on February 23 and DaimlerChrysler AG on February 28. 

 Volkswagen will issue its results on March 23, and BMW AG on March 28. The Bavarian car maker has already warned investors that its 1999 profits were flat because of higher losses at its Rover subsidiary in Britain. 

 In contrast, a strong performance from Chrysler rounded out a good year for Stuttgart-based DaimlerChrysler, which consolidated the year-old transatlantic merger during 1999. 

 TOP GAINS SEEN AT PSA, DAIMLERCHRYSLER 

 According to forecasters Jacques Chahine Finance, PSA Peugeot Citroen is expected to report net attributable profit of 752 million euros ($737.3 million), up from 484 million for 1998. 

 Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT), measuring the underlying performance, are expected to surge to 1.64 billion euros from 1.09 billion, helped by a rigorous cost-cutting drive and a successful product lineup, including the popular 206. 

 The curvy compact with sloe-eyed headlights helped the Peugeot group boost its European market share to 12.7 percent last year from 11.4 percent in 1998. 

 Along with sports car manufacturer Porsche AG, PSA Peugeot Citroen is the only European auto maker whose stock has recently surpassed the level attained in the sector's last big rally in the summer of 1998. 

 DaimlerChrysler's profit is expected to climb to 6.13 billion euros from 4.95 billion, with EBIT climbing to 10.06 billion from 7.80 billion, reflecting strong gains at the Mercedes-Benz, Chrysler and truck operations. 

 DaimlerChrysler, eager to add a small car specialist to its brands, has pulled up alongside Peugeot and Fiat - both of which deny a deal is in the offing but have not shut the door. 

 DaimlerChrysler has said it will lay out its small car strategy before the end of the first quarter. 

 Company officials say DaimlerChrysler needs to make more small cars in order to be present in the fastest-growth markets and to comply with environmental norms, which rate companies by the average fuel consumption of the entire model range. 

 Fiat was hindered last year by weak growth in the Italian market, which is recovering from weak demand after an incentive-spurred boom, and lower sales in key markets abroad. 

 It is expected to report a drop in profit to 459 million euros from 621 million, but analysts are looking for a gain in EBIT to 767 million euros from 746 million amid speculation that the company is preparing to put the car division up for sale. 

 Renault is expected to show a slide in profit to 700 million euros from 1.35 billion after taking a 1.95 billion franc ($291.3 million) provision for a restructuring at Nissan and goodwill amortisation charges. Renault may also set aside provisions for a big early retirement programme in France. 

 Its underlying performance is expected to show improvement, with EBIT rising to 2.01 billion euros from 1.65 billion, according to Paris-based Jacques Chahine Finance, but investor sentiment has deteriorated sharply in recent weeks. 

 In the past two weeks, the stock has shed 24 percent of its value and is 30 percent off its all-time high. 

 INVESTORS SHUN MARKET LEADER VOLKSWAGEN 

 Volkswagen, Europe's biggest car maker selling autos under the VW, Audi, Seat and Skoda brands, has succeeded in boosting its share of the market to 19.9 percent from 18 percent in 1998 mainly at the expense of Ford Motor Co and the Japanese. 

 But its recent earnings performance has disappointed investors, who have knocked the share price to around 46 euros, less than half its 1998 peak of just over 100 euros. 

 Analysts expect VW to report a drop in profit to 1.13 billion euros for 1999 from 1.15 billion for the preceding year. 

 VW sounded a profit warning in November, citing fierce price competition in Europe, but analysts also worry that some of VW's less expensive brands may be cannibalising the costlier ones. 

 Munich-based BMW, which reported a 462 million euro profit for 1998, has said its 1999 earnings were flat because higher losses at Rover offset gains from the luxury BMW-brand business. 

 Most analysts estimate Rover's loss widened to around 2.2 billion marks ($1.10 billion) last year from 1.87 billion in 1998, as it lost market share, in part because it was renewing its ageing lineup. 

 Recent reports mentioning losses upwards of 2.5 billion marks at Rover alternately alarm investors - and rekindle speculation that BMW will have to take tougher action or cut the British auto maker loose. 

 Stuttgart-based Porsche, whose fiscal year runs to July 31, last week reported that its first half pre-tax profit rose 15.1 percent to 228.9 million marks, helped by a 14 percent rise in sales of its Boxster and classic 911 sports cars. Its net profit edged up to 120.1 million marks from 117.4 million. 

 ($1 = 1.020 Euro) 

 ($1 = 6.693 French Franc) 

 ($1 = 1.998 Mark). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw2f07lck




 RESEARCH ALERT-Maytag  cut  to market perform. 

404 words
15 February 2000
16:14
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Feb 15 (Reuters) - Banc Of America said Tuesday it downgraded Maytag Corp.  to market performer from buy after the home appliance maker said its first-quarter profits might fall 10 percent from the prior year's record level. 

 - "Despite the fact that the price of Maytag shares is low, we are reducing our rating on Maytag shares...on basis of the potential impact of rising interest rates and a lack of earnings visibility," read a report by analyst Russell Leavitt. 

 - "We are cutting our first quarter estimate from $0.95 to $0.85. We are also concerned that these problems may spill into the second quarter, resulting in a decline from the $0.97 posted last year," it said. 

 - "We are reducing our full-year 2000 EPS (earnings per share) estimate to $3.75 from $4.00, just below the low end of the $3.80-$4.00 range that management is now targeting," it said. "Our estimate reflects uncertainty about earnings over the remainder of 2000. We are also reducing our 2001 EPS estimate to $4.25 from $4.40." 

 - On Monday, Maytag of Newton, Iowa, made its second profit warning in six months, saying it expected to report full-year 2000 earnings at the lower end of the range of current analysts' estimates, which ran from $3.80 to $4.00 per share. 

 - It said first quarter 2000 diluted earnings per share could be off 10 percent or more from 1999's record first-quarter profits of $0.95 a share. 

 - Analysts had expected a first-quarter profit of $0.96, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 - "The primary factor affecting earnings was weak sales at the Dixie-Narco soft-drink vending machine division due to a major soft-drink supplier curtailing purchases," read the analyst report. "It appears that revenues at the Commercial division may decline 20 percent-25 percent and operating margins could contract about 50 percent." 

 - "In addition, slower growth at the Hoover floorcare division due to competition from bagless upright vacuum cleaners, added Internet development costs and continued value-brand erosion contributed to the shortfall," it said. "Maytag will introduce a line of bagless upright floorcare products next quarter to shore up Hoover's competitive position. 

 - Maytag's stock was off 1-11/16 at 30-13/16. 

 ((-New York newsroom, +212 859 1700)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw2f07hwz




 Bob Evans Issues 4th-Quarter  Profit Warning ; 3rd Quarter Tops Estimates 

311 words
15 February 2000
14:47
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Bob Evans Farms Inc., which produces pork sausage and operates a chain of restaurants, warned its fourth-quarter results might be "somewhat less" than the 34 cents a share reported a year ago because of an increase in hog costs and the impact of winter weather. 

 In the meantime, Bob Evans Farms (BOBE) posted fiscal third-quarter profit that edged analysts' estimates despite a 14% decline over year-ago results. For the quarter ended Jan. 28, the Columbus, Ohio-based company reported net income of $12.3 million, or 33 cents a share on a fully diluted basis, compared with $14.3 million, or 34 cents a diluted share, in the year-earlier period. 

 The mean estimate of five analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial was for earnings of around 31 cents a diluted share. 

 Sales declined 5.7% to $236.3 million. 

 Bob Evans Farms noted that sales for the latest quarter included one less week than the corresponding period a year earlier. Excluding the extra week, sales in Bob Evans-operated restaurants open at least a year rose 3%. 

 While labor-related expenses remained high, reductions in other operating expenses and a menu price increase implemented in November enabled the segment to achieve an operating margin equal to that of a year ago, the company said. 

 During the fiscal third quarter, Bob Evans Farms repurchased about 1.5 million common shares, boosting year-to-date repurchases to 3.5 million and reducing total shares outstanding to about 37 million. 

 Bob Evans Farms owns and operates 433 full-service family restaurants and produces pork sausage under the Bob Evans and Owens Country Sausage brand names. 

 (Compiled from Dow Jones Newswires and other sources) 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved 

Document djon000020020330dw2f015p0




 Maytag Shares Down 11% On  Profit Warning , Customer News 

535 words
14 February 2000
17:27
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 DES MOINES, Iowa -(Dow Jones)- Maytag Corp. (MYG) shares were off 10.8% Monday after the appliance maker disclosed problems on several fronts and lowered its 2000 full-year earnings expectations. 

 Shares recently traded at 32 7/16, down 3 15/16, on volume of 1.2 million shares, compared with average daily volume of 563,100. The price is a far cry from the company's 52-week high of 74 13/16 reached May 24. Its 52-week low is 31 1/4, reached Oct. 1. 

 The sharp decline came as Maytag said an unexpected interruption in sales in its Dixie-Narco vending-machine business probably won't be offset by home-appliance sales, which are expected to be flat for the quarter. 

 Maytag said an unidentified major Dixie-Narco customer had curtailed purchases because of a restructuring. "The impact is expected at least through the first half," Maytag Chairman and Chief Executive Lloyd Ward told analysts in a conference call from Tokyo, where he had announced a joint venture with Sanyo Electric Co. (SANYY). 

 "We don't know how long it will last," Ward said of the customer's difficulties. "It may continue to affect business for most of the year ... It could end up having a very severe impact on (Dixie-Narco's) bottom line." 

 With between $350 million and $400 million in annual sales, the Dixie-Narco unit represents less than 10% of Maytag's overall sales. 

 Still, coming as it did with a loss of momentum for its highly profitable Hoover floor-cleaning division and a falloff in market share for its value-priced Magic Chef, Maytag now sees 2000 full-year results at the lower end of estimates, which before Monday were between $3.80 and $4 a diluted share. The First Call/Thomson Financial analyst consensus estimate for 2000 is $3.91 per share. 

 Maytag also said first-quarter results could be off at least 10% from last year's record 95-cent per diluted share. The First Call estimate is 96 cents per share. 

 Maytag CEO Ward said Hoover should regain momentum in the second half of this year with the introduction of its first upright bagless vacuum cleaner, intended to match industry trends. 

 "When Hoover has slower growth, because it's such a strong engine for profitable growth for us, it will affect our results," Ward said. 

 While Maytag's premium-brand strategy continues to reap sales, its value brands "continue under significant pressure," Ward said. In part, that's because the company is moving its Maytag brand into the building-manufactured housing market, where lower-priced appliances have traditionally enjoyed popularity. 

 Responding to an analyst's question, Ward agreed that General Electric Co. (GE) was being very aggressive in the building-manufactured housing category. He said the company was seeking "the right strategy to address" value-brand erosion in that sector. 

 Ward also said Maytag intends to aggressively pursue cost reduction and improved productivity programs throughout the year. Maytag has plans to reduce overhead by $25 million over the next two years. 

 -Richard Gibson; Dow Jones Newswires; 515-282-6830; dick.gibson@dowjones.com 

Document dj00000020010805dw2e00pqr




BUSINESS
FINANCIAL
BUSINESS 

741 words
11 February 2000
Chicago Sun-Times
CHI
English
© 2000 Chicago Sun Times.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.  All rights reserved.  

Midwest Express cancels 15 flights Midwest Express Airlines canceled 15 flights in the face of a strike deadline that could result in 320 pilots walking out tonight. The pilots could strike at 11:01 Chicago time tonight if no deal is reached through negotiations with the National Mediation Board in Washington, D.C. Fourteen of the 15 canceled flights were to either depart from or arrive in Milwaukee's Mitchell Airport, Midwest Express' hub, the airline advised callers to its flight information telephone line today. The airline, based in Oak Creek, Wis., canceled the flights Thursday so the planes would not be away from their bases in Milwaukee; Omaha, Neb.; and Kansas City, Mo., in the event of a strike, spokeswoman Lisa Bailey told the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. She did not immediately return calls today. Talks between the airline and the Air Line Pilots Association, which have been going on for 19 months, resumed Tuesday and were continuing today. 

The contract would be the first between the two. Windows worries sock Microsoft stock Microsoft Corp. shares fell almost 6 percent today amid concern that reports customers may have problems with Windows 2000 could slow sales of the software giant's newest and most ambitious software upgrade. Shares of the world's largest softwaremaker fell $6.06 1/4 to $99.93 3/4 in trading of more than 57 million, making it the most active U.S. stock. Microsoft shares fell after an influential research group warned that as many as half of the customers who install Windows 2000 in the next two years could have compatibility problems with their old software. The warning, from analysts at The Gartner Group, a Stamford, Conn.-based research organization, come less than a week before Windows 2000 is set to go on sale. Philips to revamp consumer business Royal Philips Electronics NV, Europe's largest consumer- electronics maker, said it will form five separate units within its consumer-electronics business to group similar products and boost sales. The division will be divided into audio-video, mobile phones and other portable devices, set-top boxes, electronic components and special products. The subsidiaries will report to Adri Baan, management board member responsible for consumer electronics. Chief Executive Cor Boonstra has closed plants and sold units to slim down to eight divisions since taking the company's helm in 1996. The consumer-electronics division is Philips' largest, accounting for more than one-third of its sales in the first nine months of 1999. 2 Spanish firms form Net venture Two of Spain's largest companies, Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentina and Telefonica, announced a global alliance today aimed at tapping into the burgeoning Internet economy. The bank and the telecommunications company said they agreed to establish 14 joint projects while buying stock in each other and various existing Internet businesses. "This alliance will help both companies cement a solid expansion in the Internet, electronic commerce, platforms of mobile phone services and payment methods," the companies said, adding that they plan to invite La Caixa, Spain's largest savings bank, to join the venture. The move sent the stock market indexes in Madrid to record highs, with gains of about 3 percent in the main index and 3.4 percent in the technology sector. Shares of BBVA rose 7.7 percent while Telefonica closed 4.2 percent higher. Viasoft to cut jobs in restructuring Viasoft Inc. said today its expects to cut about 70 positions, or 20 to 25 percent of its work force, and divide itself in two independent units. The Phoenix, Ariz.-based software and computer-services company said the reorganization is aimed at improving customer-support services. One unit will be for the maintenance and modernization of mainframe systems. The other unit will be for the company's Rochade data- warehousing technology. The company expects to record a $1.4 million restructuring charge for the fiscal third quarter ending in March. Beans and grains wilt Grain and soybean prices fell sharply today on a mix of weekend profit-taking and reaction to weather and supply- demand reports. Wheat for March delivery fell 2 1/4 cents to $2.69 1/ 2 a bushel; March corn fell 3 3/4 cents to $2.21 3/4 a bushel; March oats fell 1 1/4 cent to $1.09 a bushel; March soybeans fell 7 3/4 cents to $5.05 1/4 a bushel.  

Document chi0000020010804dw2b003mx




 Asian assets  cut  as C-C Amatil eyes 2000. 

 By Walter Watson 
526 words
10 February 2000
08:36
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 SYDNEY, Feb 10 (Reuters) - The Asia-Pacific region's biggest Coca-Cola bottler, Australia-based Coca-Cola Amatil Ltd, topped market profit forecasts on Thursday but warned of a lower profit in 2000 and continuing problems in key Asian markets. 

 The group also carved A$1.5 billion (US$945 million) out of its Asian asset base to reflect the prolonged impact of the region's economic crisis in some markets. 

 "(Given) ... the significant deterioration in performance in the Philippines during the latter part of 1999, and the slower than anticipated sales volumes in South Korea, it is appropriate to recognise a reduction in the carrying values," managing director David Kennedy told a briefing of media and analysts. 

 Philippines assets were written down by A$1.25 billion, while the value of South Korean assets was cut by A$250 million. 

 C-C Amatil reported annual net profit before one-off items rose to A$190.2 million from A$179.3 million in 1998. 

 This topped analyst forecasts of a A$182 million profit, although they were concerned about 2000 performance, a fear confirmed when the company reiterated December 1999's warning that calendar 2000 net profit would be lower than 1999's result. 

 "The result was above our expectations," said an analyst at a European-owned investment bank. 

 "But my initial impression is that they have a lot of work ahead of them." 

 ECONOMY KEY TO PHILIPPINES RECOVERY 

 How quickly the Philippines, representing 28 percent of the group's A$3.782 billion revenue, would recover from a double whammy of falling volumes and higher unit costs would depend largely on macroeconomic factors in that market. 

 "Further improvements in the Philippines will be affected by the rate of recovery in consumer purchasing power and demand," Kennedy said. 

 In 1999 Philippines sales volumes fell 9.9 percent, while unit costs were up about 20 percent, squeezing profit margins and slashing profit before interest, tax and abnormals by 63.4 percent to A$62.1 million. 

 In South Korea, the absence of marketing development incentives in 2000 from Coca-Cola Inc  would impact that market's profitability, Kennedy said. 

 The asset revaluations were not all one way with A$1.9 billion - primarily related to Australian bottling agreements - written back to give a net increase in asset value of A$436.4 million. 

 Kennedy said the focus in 2000 would be on wringing better volumes, and further cost savings, out of existing assets rather than buying further territories. 

 "I don't believe we will have any movement on that front. We continue to see the best opportunities for C-C Amatil to grow to be in existing territories," he said. 

 C-C Amatil is about 37 percent owned by The Coca-Cola Co, while Filipino beverage giant San Miguel Corp  owns 21.5 percent. 

 C-C Amatil shares ended steady at A$3.53 on turnover of 2.9 million shares with a range of A$3.45 to A$3.58 on the day. 

 (A$1 = US$0.63). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw2a08i89




 Dell says parts situation improving. 

 By Jeff Franks 
574 words
10 February 2000
23:05
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 HOUSTON, Feb 10 (Reuters) - A shortage of key computer components that cut into Dell Computer Corporation's fourth quarter earnings is "getting better," but the company's sheer size means that the days of 40 and 50 percent revenue growth rates are past, Dell Vice Chairman Kevin Rollins said on Thursday. 

 He also said computer component prices are more stable than they were in the second half of 1999, but that also means prices are not coming down as fast as they did in the past. 

 Dell said on Thursday that it earned $436 million, or 16 cents a share, on revenues of $6.8 billion in the fiscal fourth quarter that ended Jan. 28. 

 That was well below initial expectations for the quarter, but Dell had warned two weeks earlier that an "inconsistent flow of key semiconductor components" and sales slow to rebound from Y2K fears would hurt results. 

 Rollins told Reuters in a telephone interview that the key problem in the last quarter was Intel Corporation's inability to deliver a consistent supply of high-end computer chips. 

 "It's getting better," Rollins said. "We're not completely out of the woods on it yet, but in general lead times have come back down and therefore customers have been buying pretty aggressively on the high-end systems." 

 "We don't anticipate we're going to have any difficulty with our processors like we did in Q4," he said. 

 Rollins said a balanced supply and demand environment for many computer components had stabilised prices. 

 "I think we're in a much more stable pricing environment now and don't have quite the swings that we saw in Q3 and Q4 in terms of availability," he said. 

 The downside of that, Rollins said, was that component prices were "not declining quite as rapidly as they had historically." 

 Dell said in its January profit warning to expect revenue growth rate in the low-30 percent range and net margins in the low to mid-7 percent range for the current fiscal year. 

 Rollins said those predictions were unchanged and that the lower growth rates were now built into the company's forecasts for the foreseeable future. In the past, Dell historically grew at 40 to 50 percent rates, but its sheer size prevents that now, he said. 

 "We believe that's (30 percent) a kind of prudent level to set expectations and to try to run our business toward, predominantly just because we're getting so big," Rollins said. 

 "It's kind of hard to assume that you can grow much faster than that with a reasonably managed eyed," he said. "I think that's what we're trying to tell everybody - that's a more prudent management growth level for us." 

 The slowed growth rate was particularly notable in Dell's large business customers segment, where revenues rose just 20 percent, compared to 31 percent for the whole company. 

 Rollins said Y2K slowed large business sales more than expected. 

 "January was slower than we thought in the large corporate space. We anticipated that February would be slow too and that as we moved through the quarter, the ramp would pick up," he said. 

 "We've seen nothing that would change our belief that that's the story out there. We're talking with customers and they're still anticipating buying," he said. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw2a0896k




 U.S. stocks expected to open slightly higher. 

 By Amy Collins 
603 words
10 February 2000
13:14
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Feb 10 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks were expected to open slightly higher on Thursday and then could head lower, a day after shares were hit hard by interest-rate concerns and Nasdaq was pulled from its record highs. 

 "These vicious sell-offs don't resonate. They are contained and nobody panics. The follow-through today is slightly affirmative," said Larry Wachtel, a market analyst at Prudential Securities Inc. 

 The Dow Jones industrial index fell 258 points to its lowest level since November. "The Dow broke through some important technical levels," said Peter Cardillo, the director of research at Westfalia Investments. "We might be headed lower in Dow." 

 The Standard & Poor's 500 futures index for March was up 3 points at 1,421 while the Nasdaq futures index for March was up 18 points at 3,995. 

 The 30-year U.S. Treasury bond was down 18/32 with a yield of 6.25 percent. Trading will be shaped by the 1 p.m. EST (1800 GMT) auction on new 30-year bonds, which follows the 5-year and 10-year auctions in the two previous sessions. 

 "The 5-year auction was poor, the 10-year auction was abysmal. Everything is very confused," Wachtel said of the bond market, which has been rattled for a week by the U.S. government's decision to buy back its debt more aggressively than previously thought. 

 On Wednesday, U.S. Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers added to unrest by indicating that the supply of 30-year bonds might not become as scarce as previously thought. 

 Companies in the news include MCI WorldCom Inc. , which topped Wall Street expectations by a penny by reporting quarterly earnings of 42 cents per share. It saw a 15 percent increase in its revenues to $8.8 billion, when excluding Embratel and Skytel. 

 Network Solutions Inc.  reported fourth-quarter earnings of 25 cents a share, compared with 11 cents a year ago. 

 Tricon Global Restaurants Inc. , the parent of Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and KFC, on Wednesday topped earnings expectations, helped by a lower tax rate and strong returns from both its Pizza Hut and overseas business. 

 Companies expected to report earnings on Thursday include Dell Computer Corp.  and which earlier issued a profit warning for its latest quarter. It is expected to report after the market closes. 


The Dow Jones industrial average	  on Wednesday recorded its eighth-largest point decline ever, falling 258.44 points, or 2.36 percent, to 10,699.16.



In addition to losses in its financial components, Microsoft Corp.  was down 5-15/16 at 104 after it was identified as the target of an anti-competition probe by the European Union over its Windows 2000 operating system.



The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index	  dropped 30.01 points, or 2.08 percent, to 1,411.71.
The Nasdaq composite index	   fell 64.35 points, or 1.45 percent, to 4,363.15 after three consecutive record high closes.



Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan will make public comments on Thursday morning, at the Senate Agriculture Committee hearing on over-the-counter derivatives.



The only economic numbers expected during the day are the jobless claims for the week ending Feb. 5. Economist polled by Reuters expect new claims to climb to 279,000 from 274,000 in the prior week. The numbers are watched by Wall Street because a tight labour market can pressure employers to increase wages, which could lead to inflation.



((Wall Street Newsdesk, (212) 859-1730)).



(C) Reuters Limited 2000.


Document lba0000020010821dw2a08594




 Keane Reports 4th-Quarter Loss On Charge; Sees Business Improving 

306 words
10 February 2000
19:19
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Software services company Keane Inc. posted a fourth-quarter loss on restructuring charges, but core results met analysts' diminished expectations. 

 Boston-based Keane (KEA) reported a loss of $3.2 million, or four cents a share, compared with earnings of $23.6 million, or 33 cents a share, a year ago. Revenue fell 25% to $220 million. 

 Figures for the latest quarter include a charge of $13.7 million related to employee severance costs, the consolidation of less profitable business units and the closing of plants used for year 2000 work. Excluding charges, the company earned $5 million, or seven cents a diluted share. The mean estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial was for earnings, excluding items, of eight cents a share. 

 Prior to Keane's profit warning last week, analysts had been looking for the company to earn 30 cents a share in the fourth quarter. Keane warned that a rapid decline in year 2000 work and client deferrals of new projects would hurt the company's bottom line. Keane said then that it is moving to restore its normal growth and profitability by reducing its technical staff and "retooling" its organization. 

 The company said it expects to see an improvement in the second quarter. 

 Separately, Keane said its board has approved the repurchase up to two million shares of common stock over the next 12 months. 

 The timing and amount of shares repurchased will be determined by the company's management based on its evaluation of market and economic conditions. 

 Keane said it plans to use the shares for stock option plans, employee stock purchase and other stock benefit plans, and for general corporate purposes. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dw2a011s9




 Dell CFO Says 4th Quarter Gross Margins At 19.2%, Down From  Year-Ago 

 By Bob Sechler 
663 words
10 February 2000
21:56
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 AUSTIN, Texas -(Dow Jones)- Dell Computer Corp. (DELL) Chief Financial Officer Tom Meredith reiterated Thursday that he expects revenue for the current fiscal year ending in 2001 to increase in the low-30% range, a figure below historic rates but that he described as a "quiet bullish" outlook nonetheless. 

 "We were being held, frankly, to an unreasonably high bar, and we allowed that to happen," Meredith told Dow Jones Newswires in an interview following Dell's fourth quarter earnings release. 

 Dell reported earnings of 15 cents a share for the quarter, excluding items, matching analysts' lowered expectations. Wall Street had been looking for 21 cents a share prior to a January profit warning by the company - Dell's second straight quarterly warning. 

 Revenue came in at $6.8 billion for the quarter, 31% more than $5.17 billion in the fourth quarter a year ago, when the company also earned 15 cents a share. 

 Meredith said Dell issued the fourth quarter warning partly to lower expectations for a company that many investors had grown used to seeing post near-50% year-over-year revenue gains. Meredith said Thursday that the company simply couldn't keep growing at those rates given its size. 

 Dell also faced severe component shortages in the fourth quarter that cut into sales, as well as Y2K-related slowdowns in sales. He said it doesn't appear that those issues will impact the company's fiscal first quarter. 

 "The fourth quarter had some really difficult issues surrounding it, primarily component issues," Meredith said. 

 He said the fourth quarter revenue growth, as well as his forecast for the year, still signals solid growth for the company "at a multiple of the market." 

 Dell Chief Financial Officer Meredith also touted several milestones for the fourth quarter. 

 He said the company's Internet sales accounted for nearly 50% of revenue in the quarter. Dell was doing $40 million in business a day over the Internet by the end of the fourth quarter, up $14 million from a year ago. 

 In addition, Meredith said the company saw significant market-share gains for its enterprise computing systems. He said the company now has 15% of the global enterprise market, up from 10% a year ago, as well as 25% of the U.S. market for such systems, up from 15% a year ago. 

 "We continue to set the standard for our industry" in terms of growth, he said. "Revenue growth over 30% is something very few companies of any size are delivering." 

 Still, Dell wrestled with higher costs in the fourth quarter, primarily due to component shortages. Meredith said Dell's gross margin for the quarter came in about 19.2%, down from 22.4% in the year-ago period. 

 He said he doesn't expect component constraints to be an issue in the first quarter. Dell said in its profit warning late last month that an Intel Corp. (INTC) chip shortage was partly to blame for the lowered expectations. 

 Meredith said the company may consider using other chips, such as those produced by Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD), although no decision has been made. 

 "We are constantly looking at new technologies and trying to flesh out whether there are opportunities for us," Meredith said. But "we continue to have a very good relationship with Intel." 

 He said he's confident the company's direct-sales model is continuing to give it a significant advantage over its competitors, even though the recent problems with component shortages made clear some of the disadvantages of a stream-lined, low-inventory distribution method. 

 Meredith said Dell's direct model isn't more vulnerable to such shortages, it simply is impacted by them first. 

 "It's just that we're a leading indicator of what is happening," Meredith said. "We're more real-time." 


    -Bob Sechler; Dow Jones Newswires; 512-236-9637


Document dj00000020010805dw2a00o3w




 Business 
 Daily briefing 

STAFF REPORTS AND NEWS SERVICES
1,971 words
9 February 2000
The Atlanta Constitution
ATJC
Home
D; 2
English
 (Copyright, The Atlanta Journal and Constitution - 2000) 

 Deals 

 Abrams Industries sells manufacturing asset 

 >> Abrams Industries Inc. completed the sale of its Abrams Fixture Corp. unit's manufacturing assets to MII Inc. for $2.2 million. Atlanta-based Abrams Industries said the sale is in keeping with its plan to end its manufacturing operations and dispose of such assets by April 30. 

 Gulfstream Aerospace wins Egyptian contract 

 >> General Dynamics Corp.'s Gulfstream Aerospace Corp. unit received a contract valued at $74.3 million from Egypt's air force. General Dynamics said the contract covers two Gulfstream IV-SPs that will be used to transport Egyptian government officials. The company said the contract also includes related spare parts and support equipment. 

 Weather Channel's parent expanding 

 >> Woodland Hills, Calif. --- Litton Industries Inc. is selling its weather data and map-making unit to Weather Channel operator Landmark Communications Inc. for $120 million, allowing Litton to focus on its defense and information businesses. Litton's Weather Services International unit, based in suburban Boston, has 230 employees, 40 percent of whom are meteorologists, Litton said. Weather Services also tracks hurricanes and typhoons. 

 Also ... 

 Merger called off: USFreightways Corp. and Transport Corp. of America mutually agreed to terminate their Jan. 17 merger agreement, the companies said in a news release Tuesday. 

 Finance 

 GE site on Net to sell financial products 

 Stamford, Conn. --- General Electric Co. introduced an Internet site to market financial products, its first electronic-commerce venture targeting consumers. GE Capital Corp. will sell mutual funds, credit cards, insurance and mortgage loans on one site, the GE Financial Network --- www.gefn.com. Customers can also obtain stock quotes, check their account status, calculate retirement costs and access other data. 

 B of A pays $3 million for Loans.com name 

 Charlotte --- Bank of America Corp. paid $3 million to use the name Loans.com as its Internet address, the highest known price ever paid at auction for a Web domain name, according to the company that auctioned it. Bank of America said it would use the Internet address to make make more loans to consumers and small businesses over the Web. While the $3 million price for Loans.com was announced after its sale Jan. 28, Bank of America didn't disclose it was the buyer until Tuesday. 

 Bank of New York to increase oversight 

 New York --- The Bank of New York --- currently embroiled in an investigation of Russian money-laundering --- signed an agreement Tuesday with state and federal regulators promising to beef up the monitoring of its customers' accounts for "suspicious activity." The agreement comes four months after Thomas Renyi, chairman of the Bank of New York, admitted the bank had been lax in handling $7 billion that moved through its accounts from Russian sources between 1996 and August of last year. 

 Also ... 

 DLJdirect Inc.: The online brokerage arm of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Inc. will offer discount Web stock trading in 14 countries in the Middle East and North Africa through a joint venture. 

 Galileo International: The travel information company said it will buy the 80 percent of Trip.com it doesn't own for $269 million in cash and stock to expand its online travel services. 

 Health Care 

 Roche warned about plant in New Jersey 

 Washington --- Roche Holding AG, Europe's fifth-largest drug maker, didn't follow proper quality control procedures in producing more than a dozen drugs at a New Jersey plant, including the weight- loss drug Xenical and the antibiotic Rocephin, U.S. regulators said. In a warning letter to the company, the Food and Drug Administration cited 32 deficiencies found in an inspection from May 17 to Aug. 26, 1999, at the company's Totowa, N.J., facility. 

 Pharmacia & Upjohn plant cited by FDA 

 Washington --- Pharmacia & Upjohn Inc. didn't ensure sterility at production facilities for some sterile powders and injectable drugs, the Food and Drug Administration said. The FDA said an inspection of Pharmacia's Kalamazoo, Mich., facility found that the company didn't ensure that the system circulating air in sterile processing areas was working properly. Pharmacia didn't properly investigate the problem, and some employees in the sterile production area weren't properly trained to maintain the quality of the drugs, the letter said. 

 Hospitality McDonald's sales 

 rose 7% in January 

 Oak Brook, Ill. --- McDonald's Corp. said new products helped lift sales 7 percent in January. The monthly report is a first for McDonald's, which said it will now release sales each month to keep investors informed and because of changes in disclosure sought by regulators. The company had previously indicated to analysts how monthly sales were performing, without releasing the information to the public. Sales worldwide rose to $3.16 billion in January from $2.94 billion a year earlier, helped by new bagel sandwiches and McFlurry ice cream desserts. 

 Manufacturing 

 L.A. T Sportswear changing its name 

 >> Ball Ground-based L.A. T Sportswear Inc. said it's changing its name to Full Line Distributors Inc., effective in about a month. In addition, the company's common stock began trading on the American Stock Exchange under ticker symbol FLD on Tuesday. 

 Raytheon planning to shed businesses 

 New York --- Raytheon Co., the No. 3 U.S. defense company, plans to sell $500 million of businesses this year as it cuts debt and focuses on more profitable units, the company told analysts and investors at a conference in New York. Raytheon is concentrating on its main businesses after warning in October that sales and profit last year and this year will be less than forecast, triggering its biggest stock drop in at least two decades. The shares have lost about 61 percent in the last 12 months. 

 Media 

 Canadian site orderedto stop carrying TV 

 Toronto --- ICraveTV.com Inc., which was showing 17 Canadian and U.S. television stations at its Web site for free until recently, has been ordered again by a U.S. District Court judge to stop showing the transmissions. Judge Donald Ziegler turned his temporary restraining order from Jan. 28 into a preliminary injunction Tuesday, preventing closely held iCraveTV.com from allowing U.S. Internet users to see the transmissions for at least 90 days. The injunction was made at the request of the National Football League, National Basketball Association and a group of 13 movie studios and TV networks. 

 Viacom partner sues to stop purchase of CBS 

 New York --- BHC Communications Inc., which owns the UPN TV network with Viacom Inc., said it sued to stop Viacom's planned $51 billion purchase of CBS Corp., claiming the acquisition would violate a previous agreement with BHC. BHC, a television station group 80 percent owned by Chris-Craft Industries Inc., also is challenging Viacom's use of a "buy-sell" provision in Viacom's UPN partnership agreement with BHC. Viacom last week told BHC that it had 45 days to choose either to sell its stake in UPN to Viacom for $5 million or buy Viacom's stake for the same price. 

 Real Estate 

 Buckhead company to build Chicago hotel 

 >> Buckhead-based Regent Partners will start construction this spring on a 175-room Hilton Garden Inn in the Chicago suburbs. The $20 million project, which will be adjacent to Northwestern University in Evanston, Ill., should be open in time for the 2001 holidays. 

 AMLI Residential sells Cobb community 

 >> AMLI Residential Properties has completed the sale of AMLI at Sope Creek in Cobb County. The apartment developer sold the 695-unit community for $42.5 million and used the proceeds to acquire a 150- unit apartment community in Gainesville and a 606-unit luxury apartment development in Austin, Texas. 

 Also ... 

 >> Baita International: The company acquired the Battle Ridge shopping center in Powder Springs on behalf of an investment client. Baita paid Jebco Ventures $11.9 million for the 103,517-square-foot center anchored by Kroger. 

 Technology 

 CompUSA sued over Mexican market rights 

 Mexico City --- A Dallas-based computer distributor filed a lawsuit against CompUSA Inc. and Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim Helu, accusing them of trying to push the distributor out of the Mexico's computer market and seeking $600 million in damages. The suit, filed in a Dallas County court, says CompUSA began negotiating with Slim and his companies to open CompUSA stores in Mexico while COC Services Ltd. held exclusive franchise rights, the company said. 

 EBay to create auctions on Disney Web sites 

 San Jose, Calif. --- EBay Inc. and Walt Disney Co.'s Go.com Internet network said they are working to create auctions on Disney's Web sites. Under the four-year agreement, eBay will become the online auction house for Disney's Internet properties, including the Go Network. The companies will create auction sites to sell Disney products, including items from Walt Disney Studios and its ESPN and ABC networks. Terms weren't disclosed. 

 Amazon.com unit faces FTC scrutiny 

 Seattle --- A subsidiary of online retail giant Amazon.com Inc. is under scrutiny by the Federal Trade Commission and is the subject of two lawsuits over its use of private customer data. Amazon.com says the FTC was engaged in an "informal" investigation of Alexa Internet and its software, which tracks where users go on the World Wide Web in order to provide related Web links and other data. 

 Also ... 

 Phone.com Inc.: The maker of software for connecting wireless devices to the Internet said it's buying Paragon Software Ltd. of Britain for about $500 million in stock. 

 Transportation 

 Boeing to consolidate commercial jet units 

 Seattle --- Boeing Co. said it will consolidate commercial jet programs into one group in an effort to cut costs. The group replaces separate organizations that had managed twin-aisle and single-aisle jet programs. The goal is to simplify purchasing and cut factory space in Boeing's commercial jet business, which is recovering from depressed profits over much of the past three years. 

 AMR sets March 15 for Sabre spinoff 

 Fort Worth, Texas --- AMR Corp. set March 15 for a spinoff of its 83 percent stake in Sabre Holdings Corp., the world's biggest travel reservation company, in a transaction valued at $5.7 billion. The parent of American Airlines will distribute 107 million shares of Sabre to AMR stockholders as of March 1, at a rate of about 0.7 of a Sabre share for each AMR share. Sabre will pay a one-time cash dividend of $675 million on Feb. 18 to its shareholders as of Feb. 15. AMR said the spinoff will give it more freedom to expand on the Internet. 

 Workplace 

 Microsoft ranked No. 1 employer for disabled 

 Microsoft is the best employer for people with disabilities, according to WE, the lifestyle magazine for people with disabilities, in its annual rating. Microsoft bumped IBM, which held the No. 1 spot for two years. As for IBM's slip to third place (Johnson & Johnson was second), WE Editor in Chief Charles Riley II said it's not that IBM is doing less, but that other companies are waking up to the tight labor market and trying to attract and keep good employees. 

 Citigroup adding benefits for partners 

 New York --- Citigroup Inc. notified employees Tuesday that it would begin offering benefits to the partners of gay workers. Benefits also will be extended to the live-in partners of heterosexual workers under the policy that takes effect in May. "Our competitive goal of becoming the employer of choice in the financial services industry requires that we continually evaluate the range of benefits," said a memo to employees. 

 Also ... 

 Job fair: The DeKalb office of the Georgia Department of Labor will hold a job fair Feb. 23 from 9 a.m. until noon at 3879 Covington Highway. For information, call 404-298-3970. 

 >> Denotes item of particular local interest 

Document atjc000020010803dw290053o




 Integrated Electrical Reports 1st-Quarter Net Income Fell 71% 

389 words
9 February 2000
17:24
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Citing lower-than-expected gross margins, electrical contracting firm Integrated Electrical Services Inc. reported net income for its fiscal first quarter dropped 71%. Results, however, met Wall Street's revised expectations. 

 For the quarter ended Dec. 31, Houston-based Integrated Electrical (IEE) said net income came to $2.6 million, or seven cents a share on a fully diluted basis, compared with $9.1 million, or 29 cents a diluted share, in the year-earlier period. Revenue increased 70% to $335.2 million. 

 The mean estimate of six analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial was for earnings of around seven cents per share. 

 Integrated Electrical said first-quarter same-store sales rose about 9%. Same-store backlog as of Dec. 31 rose 10% to $406.2 million, while total backlog was $643.8 million at year-end. 

 The company said the gross-margin shortfall was primarily a result of one-time health-insurance costs, temporary or unusual market conditions, project delays, project-related issues and a few of its companies that didn't perform as they should have. 

 Selling, general and administrative expenses were $45.3 million, or 13.5% of revenue, for the latest quarter, up from $21.8 million, or 11% of revenue, for last year's first quarter. The company said its SG&A as a percentage of revenue would have approximated historical levels if the effects of one-time events such as health-insurance costs, unusual market conditions and project delays were removed. 

 The company said that to ensure that such one-time events aren't repeated, it is suspending its acquisitions program for the time being to focus on operational and integration issues. 

 Last week, Integrated Electrical issued a surprise profit warning and announced changes in its management structure, including the realignment of its operating structure into eastern and western divisions and the naming of a new executive vice president and five senior vice presidents. 

 At that time, the mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial was for first-quarter earnings of 33 cents a share. 

 Following the warning, Merrill Lynch Global Securities and Credit Suisse First Boston analysts cut their ratings on the company. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dw29015e3




 Business; Financial Desk 
 Profit Warning  Sends Nike Stock Plunging 

From Bloomberg News
375 words
9 February 2000
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-3
English
 Copyright 2000 / The Times Mirror Company 

 NEW YORK -- Shares in Nike Inc. dropped 19% after the athletic apparel and shoe company warned that its earnings will be hurt this fiscal year and next by retailers' plans to close hundreds of sporting-goods stores. 

 The stock fell $8.25 to close at $37 in New York Stock Exchange trading. 

 Earnings for the fiscal year ending May 31 could be slightly less than the average $2.08-a-share forecast of analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial, Nike executives told analysts in New York. For fiscal 1999, the Beaverton, Ore.-based company had a profit from operations of $1.66 a share. Earnings for fiscal 2001 are likely to increase by a percentage in the mid-teens, Nike said, less than the 20% analysts had expected. 

 Nike's sales fell 8.1% last year as consumers switched to dressier styles and stores cut prices to clear out surplus sneakers, sweatpants and T-shirts. 

 The stock has lost more than half its value since it peaked at $76.38 three years ago. 

 Venator Group Inc., a leading seller of athletic shoes, last month announced plans to close about 150 of its Foot Locker, Lady Foot Locker, Kids Foot Locker and Champs stores. Just for Feet Inc. said in October that about half its 85 locations would close. 

 Nike also said some profit weakness is due to the euro, which has fallen 13% against the dollar in the last 12 months. Europe accounts for about a quarter of Nike's sales. 

 The warning comes as Nike's business had been starting to rebound. Its worldwide sales rose in its fiscal second quarter for the first time in almost two years. 

 Venator, the company formerly known as Woolworth Corp., accounted for about 10% of sales of Nike-brand products in fiscal 1999, according to a regulatory filing. Just for Feet, based in Birmingham, Ala., filed for bankruptcy protection in November, citing lagging sales and excess inventories. 

 Sports Authority Inc., Footstar Inc. and JumboSports Inc. all closed stores last year. 

 Nike President Thomas E. Clarke noted that the store closings will aid the industry's profitability and benefit the company over the long term. 

Document latm000020010808dw2900983




 Business; Financial Desk 
 Raytheon Outlines Strategy for Regaining Fiscal Momentum 

From Bloomberg News
316 words
9 February 2000
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-3
English
 Copyright 2000 / The Times Mirror Company 

 NEW YORK -- Raytheon Co. plans to sell $500 million of businesses this year as it moves to cut debt and focus on more profitable units, the defense company told analysts and investors at a conference in New York. 

 The company also said it expects revenue to rise an average of 4% to 6% annually from 2000 to 2004 and earnings to rise 10% to 15% in the same period. 

 Raytheon said it expects revenue to rise 1.5% this year to $20.3 billion and net income to rise to $580 million. The company also expects to reduce debt to $9 billion from $9.5 billion. 

 Raytheon is concentrating on its main businesses after warning in October that sales and profit last year and this year will be less than forecast, triggering its biggest stock drop in at least two decades. The shares have fallen about 61% in the last 12 months. "The single most important thing for Raytheon this year is addressing the operational and control issues that surfaced in 1999," Chief Financial Officer Franklyn Caine said. "We understand the depths of those problems." 

 Last month, the company agreed to sell its flight-simulation and training division to L-3 Communications Holdings Inc. for $160 million. In November, Raytheon said it would sell a slumping microelectronics unit to closely held Imrex. 

 Raytheon has about $700 million of contracts it receives zero margin on, the company said. Raytheon is focusing on its main businesses, which include defense electronics, missile systems and air defense systems such as the Patriot missile, and its aircraft production and integration business. 

 Raytheon plans to add about 6,000 employees this year, the company said at the meeting. 

 The Class B shares of Lexington, Mass.-based Raytheon fell 6 cents to $21.56 on the New York Stock Exchange. 

Document latm000020010808dw290097z




 Market Watchers Wary Of Dell Computer's Slowing Growth Rate 

 By Scott Eden, Staff Reporter 
383 words
8 February 2000
17:54
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Shares of Dell Computer Corp. fell in heavy Nasdaq trading after a Warburg Dillon Read analyst downgraded the stock, spooking investors already jittery about the company's prospects following its fourth-quarter profit warning last month. 

 Dell's (DELL) shares have been on a steady decline since reaching a 52-week high of $53.97 Dec. 23. 

 Warburg analyst Charles R. Wolf made the call based on the Round Rock, Texas-based company's slowing growth rate. That is not new to either investors or the company, which on Jan. 26 warned that annual growth would slacken to a low-30% rate, down from 1999's 38%. 

 "As it captures an increasing share of the personal computer market, we believe Dell's growth rate must continue to slow," Wolf wrote in a research note Tuesday. "Against a headwind of slowing growth, Dell's shares are unlikely to outperform." 

 Wolf lowered his rating to "hold" from "buy" and his earnings estimate for fiscal 2002 ending in January to $1.20 a share from $1.30. He held his 2001 per-share forecast at 90 cents, in line with the mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial. For fiscal 2002, analysts expect Dell to earn $1.23. 

 The company, which reports fourth-quarter and year-end results after Thursday's market close, expects to report earnings of 68 cents a share for fiscal 2000, compared with 53 cents a year earlier. 

 According to Wolf, even with his reduced growth rate for fiscal 2001, which follows company guidance at about 32%, Dell would need to "capture 55% of industry growth, not a lay up given that Dell's competitors have defendable positions in several markets." 

 However, Dell has been moving recently to target faster growing business lines. The company formed a division aimed at selling computer servers and other equipment. The division also offers services to Web-hosting and Internet-service firms, already a booming business for Sun Microsystems Inc. (SUNW), International Business Machines Corp. (IBM), Hewlett-Packard Co. (HWP) and Compaq Computer Corp. (CPQ). 

 Dell officials weren't immediately available for comment. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dw28013g1




 Newell Rubbermaid shares tumble after  profit warning . 

266 words
4 February 2000
18:05
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 CHICAGO, Feb 4 (Reuters) - Shares in Newell Rubbermaid tumbled by more than 16 percent on Friday, after the consumer products manufacturer issued a profit warning on Thursday and disappointed Wall Street with its fourth-quarter results. 

 By 1145 CST, the shares down 4-4/8 to 23-1/8, having dipped to a five-year low at 21. 

 Trading volume was brisk with more than 8.3 million shares trading hands, making it the third most actively traded stock on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 "We have lost confidence," said Stephen East, an analyst with A.G. Edwards. "I don't think this (stock decline) is overdone." 

 East said he downgraded his rating on the stock to accumulate from buy after the company said it earned $0.25 per diluted share and that its first-quarter earnings would fall below expectations. 

 "They're espousing a range between $2.00 and $2.10, but they haven't explained how they plan to get there," East said. However, he said that if the company earned $1.90 per share for the year, as he is forecasting, the current stock price would represent value. 

 Barrington Research analyst Alexander Paris upgraded his rating on the stock to a long-term buy at current prices. He took the action based upon his forecast for a better 2000, even though it got off to a slow start. 

 Paris was estimating earnings per share of $2.00 for 2000. 

 ((Chicago Equities News at 312 408 8787, chicago.equities.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw240b0bh


 Louisville, Ky.-Based Insurer Humana Names New CEO, Sells Unit 

 Greg Groeller 
462 words
4 February 2000
Florida
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 Humana Inc. got a new chief executive on Thursday, but the 500 employees of Humana's Longwood-based workers' compensation unit won't call him their leader for long. 

 At the same time that Louisville, Ky.-based Humana appointed Michael McCallister as its new chief executive and president, it announced the sale of Humana Workers Compensation Services to Gene Roberts, who has overseen the unit for Humana since 1997. 

 Neither Humana nor Roberts would discuss terms of the transaction, which is expected to close by April 1. 

 McCallister, a senior vice president at Humana, replaces Gregory Wolf, who resigned in August after a profit warning caused the company's stock to plunge. McCallister has led a team of senior Humana executives searching for ways to get back into Wall Street's good graces. 

 To focus on its health-insurance plans, the company has sold several businesses, including its supplemental Medicare and its property and casualty businesses. The workers' compensation division was next on its list. Rather than wait for a new corporate owner, Roberts decided to buy it himself. 

 "It was an opportunity for me to continue to do what I'm doing and for the company to continue to grow," Roberts said. 

 Roberts, who oversaw the division from Humana's headquarters in Louisville, plans to move to Central Florida to lead the company, which will remain based in Longwood. A new name hasn't been chosen for the company, which collects premiums and pays claims for insurers. It has about 18,000 customers and $50 million in annual revenue. 

 About 400 employees work in the Longwood office. An additional 100 work at bureaus in Tampa, San Antonio, Oklahoma City, Louisville, Cincinnati and Las Vegas. No jobs will be cut, Roberts said. 

 The Longwood operation was originally a division of Physician Corporation of America, which was acquired by Humana in 1997. Humana absorbed PCA's managed-care operations and sold its PCA Property and Casualty division in January to FolksAmerica Holding Company Inc. for $125 million. 

 Humana's stock has plunged since April, when the company told investors that future profits would be lower than expected because it hadn't raised premiums enough to keep up with rising medical costs. Humana's stock price fell 48 percent from $16.16 on April 7 to Thursday's close of $8.44. 

 In November, the company said its third-quarter profit fell 60 percent to $22 million, or 13 cents a share, from $54 million, or 32 cents, in the third quarter of 1998. The company has said it plans to take a fourth-quarter charge of as much as $500 million because it may have overpaid for several acquisitions in 1997. 

Document krtbn00020010820dw24001w8


 Business 
 MONEYLINE; CNNfn 

 Willow Bay, Stuart Varney, Ceci Rodgers, Rhonda Schaffler, Allan Dodds Frank, Bruce Francis, Bob Beard, Fred Katayama, Greg Clarkin, Susan Lisovicz 
8,352 words
3 February 2000
23:30
CNNfn: Moneyline News Hour
MNYL
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 WILLOW BAY, CNNfn ANCHOR, MONEYLINE: Tonight on MONEYLINE, pandemonium in the bond pits. A big squeeze sets off a frantic burst of buying, sends interest rates tumbling. We`ll sort through the wildest week in years for bonds and we`ll look at what it means. 

 STUART VARNEY, CNNfn ANCHOR, MONEYLINE:  The drama in Chicago was all the talk on Wall Street, where the split between old and new economy stocks ripped open yet again. 

 BAY: A toy story without a happy ending. Mattel`s (URL: http://www.mattelmedia.com/) emergency meeting concludes, with CEO Jill Barad out. 

 VARNEY: And the dash for cash goes online -- a special look at how John McCain and other White House contenders are trying to score their own  dot.com riches. 

 ANNOUNCER: This is THE MONEYLINE NEWS HOUR. Reporting tonight from New York, Stuart Varney and Willow Bay. 

 BAY: Good evening. 

 Also coming up tonight, a bitter takeover fight that divided Europe comes to a dramatic end. The CEO`s agree on the biggest deal ever, one likely to reshape the red-hot wireless business. 

 VARNEY: And we`ll have the CEO`s of Hewlett-Packard (URL: http//www.hp.com/) and Kodak (URL: http://www.kodak.com/) , two big Dow winners today. 

 But first, our top story and that is uproar in the bond market. This is how traders described today`s astonishing session for bonds: "manic, near panic buying," "at a more feverish pace than ever." Well, just a month ago, talk like that would been unthinkable in the bond market, battered as it was throughout 1999. But the government`s decision yesterday to slash the supply of long-term bonds blindsided investors. The 30-year issue soared more than 3 full points early today. That has happened only a handful of times in the entire history of the long bond. 

 The frenzy did cool a little by day`s end, with the bond up more than 2 points on the day, with the yield down to 6.13 percent, down nearly a third of a point in just two sessions. Now that`s a troubling development for the Federal Reserve, which hiked short-term rates just yesterday. The Central Bank is relying on rising long-term rates in the bond market to help slow the economy. Instead they`ve fallen close to where they were the last time the Fed raised rates in November, after being higher than 6.7 percent less than a month ago. 

 Ceci Rodgers joins us now from Chicago with the latest on this -- Ceci. 

 CECI RODGERS, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: Stuart, traders in the bond pits here 

 in Chicago say it`s history in the making, the benchmark 30-year Treasury is a relic, a victim of the booming economy and the budget surplus. That`s troubling for banks, insurance companies and others  who use the long bond to hedge risk. There soon won`t be enough 30-year treasuries to do that. As a result, many bets went bad in the market today sparking panic buying of treasuries all across the spectrum, and rumors of massive losses at bond depths on Wall Street. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 MICHAEL BOSS, IBJ LANSTON FUTURES: There`s a new benchmark, and it`s the 10-year, and we`re going to have to get used to it and we`re going to have to work this out and it`s going to take a while, and I think even the 10-year to five-year to two-year has also inverted, so there is definitely goofy things going on. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 RODGERS: Among those goofy things, an inverted yield curve where rates on the shorter-term treasuries are higher than those on the long end. Today, yields on the two-year and the five-year notes were at the same 6.5 percent. And the 10-year note rallied almost a full point, it`s yield fell to 6.43 percent. And the 30-year yield is well below that. 

 One of the bond market`s biggest investors, Bill Gross of PIMCO, says this inversion could last for years -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: A big day indeed. Ceci, we`ll be back to you shortly. Ceci Rodgers, thank you very much. 

 BAY: Wall Street was riveted to the action in Chicago, while also trying to assess the impact of yesterday`s Fed rate hike. Once again the high-techs proved to be Wall Street`s teflon stocks. 

 Rhonda Schaffler followed the action at the New York Stock Exchange. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 RHONDA SCHAFFLER, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The wild bond market session unnerved some stock traders for a brief part of the day, but in the end stocks powered higher. As the bond rally cooled a bit late in the day, stocks took off, led by the high-flying techs. 

 TODD EBERHARD, EBERHARD INVESTMENT ASSOC.: Principally what that did for the stock market is brought up a lot of money, people selling out of the long bonds and flooding it into the markets, especially the techs where they think there is going to be greater and greater profit margins occurring, and that is probably going to be going on for some time. 

 SCHAFFLER: The Nasdaq rocketed within 30 points of a record, up 137 points to close at 4,210. Internet stocks were big gainers. And upbeat forecasts sent online book giant Amazon.com up more than 14 points. Other winners were Yahoo! and eBay. 

 ELIZABETH MACKAY, BEAR STEARNS: I just think you have investors who have identified the sector of the economy that`s in essence driving the economy at the margin, the fastest growing area, and I think, you know, the seeing success rewarding investment and it`s become almost a self- fulfilling prophecy to some extent. 

 SCHAFFLER: It wasn`t only the dot.coms stealing the tech rally. Big caps pulled in stellar gains as well, including Dow components Intel and Microsoft. The Dow Jones industrial average also advanced today, but only moderately after some rocky trading. 

 The Dow started the session with a gain, then plummeted as much as 160 points in midday trading, only to recover that loss and close up just 10 at  11,013. The Dow was held back by losses in financial and slow- growth industrial stocks. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 SCHAFFLER: While stocks fared well today, the bond market drum in Chicago was being talked about here on the floor, and there is some concern, especially about the rumors of hedge fund losses. But traders say despite all the confusion, investors still want to be in the market and they stampede to get into techs -- Willow. 

 BAY: Rhonda Schaffler, thank you. 

 The high-techs stole the glory once again on Wall Street, as Rhonda just mentioned. Still, the oldest stock on the Dow was the day`s biggest blue-chip winner. GE soared 5 1/4 after one firm restated its buy rating and price target of $170. But the other old timers on the Dow weren`t so lucky. Cyclicals ALCOA (URL: http://www.alcoa.com/) , DuPont (URL: http://www.dupont.com/)  , Caterpillar (URL: http://www.cat.com/) , and 3M (URL: http://www.mmm.com/)  all lower today. 

 Some late-breaking news tonight from Mattel about one of the most celebrated female CEO`s. Jill Barad, the toy maker`s embattled chief executive, today stepped down after Mattel held an emergency board meeting. The departure came after more problems were discovered at Mattel`s recently acquired software unit, the Learning Company -- problems that wiped out Mattel`s bottom line. The company released results after the bell, several days earlier than expected. It lost 4 cents a share, a huge disappointment for Wall Street, which was looking for a profit of 25 cents. Mattel shares down about a dollar in active after-hours trading. We`ll have more on this story later in the program. 

 VARNEY: What you might call a curious move today for Warner-Lambert`s (URL: http://www.warner-lambert.com/) stock, after the company agreed to the terms of a sweetened takeover offer from Pfizer: the stock dropped. Pfizer (URL: http://www.pfizer.com/) appears to have finally beaten out American Home Products in the heated fight over Warner-Lambert. So why isn`t that good news for Warner-Lambert shareholders? Well, it`s because there`s a very real fear that AHP (URL: http://www.ahp.com/) could play spoiler, as Allan Dodds Frank reports. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 ALLAN DODDS FRANK, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The poison pill American Home Products negotiated with Warner-Lambert still could make Pfizer shareholders sick. AHP`s arrangement with Warner-Lambert put several key hurdles in the way of other bidders such as Pfizer. 

 First, the agreement gives AHP a $1.8 billion cash breakup fee, a price Pfizer apparently is willing to pay. A bigger hurdle: the lockup option AHP got to buy up to 14.9 percent of Warner-Lambert if another bidder appeared. That provision remains important, because as long as the lockup option exists, it effectively prohibits Warner-Lambert from being acquired by Pfizer under pooling of interest accounting rules. 

 JEFFREY KRAWS, MANAGING DIR., GRUNTAL: American Home Products is really in the driver seat, because you have to get American Home Products to agree to wipe out its exercise option rights, and in order to do that, you`re going to have to provide them with a sweetened deal. 

 FRANK: Pfizer has said it wants the deal under pooling of interest accounting because otherwise it would be forced to dilute earnings by writing down as much as $70 billion of Warner-Lambert goodwill over 25 years. But accounting rules prohibit pooling if options like those held by AHP exist. 

 The accounting rules also prohibit Pfizer from making a direct cash payment to induce AHP to drop its options. Instead, the companies` lawyers are trying to figure out how to satisfy AHP and the accounting rules with what will need to look like a separate deal. 

 SERGIO TRAVERSA, METHA PARTNERS: AHP is in a strong position, but it is not a 100 percent certainty that it can fully leverage their position, because nobody, including Pfizer and Warner-Lambert, wants to go to discuss this 

 in court. 

 FRANK (on camera): Warner-Lambert hopes AHP agrees to go away by next week. Until that happens, Pfizer essentially is unable to close its deal. 

 Allan Dodds Frank, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: And here`s how the three players ended the day: for Warner-Lambert, down 7/8; Pfizer down 1/4; AHP gained nearly 1 1/4. 

 Coming up on MONEYLINE, Hewlett-Packard`s deal double-header -- new ventures with a top carmaker and a photo giant. We`ll talk with chief executive Carly Fiorina. 

 BAY: Plus, a breakthrough in Vodafone`s (URL: http://www.vodafone-airtouch-plc.com/) historic battle for Mannesmann (URL: http://www.mannesmann.com/) . The biggest deal on Earth is set to be inked. 

 VARNEY: And a big day for the man getting much of the credit for America`s boom time. We`ll tell why retirement just got farther out of reach. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Checking tonight`s "MONEYLINE Movers," Reebok(URL: http://www.reebok.com/) gained 2. It surprised investors with a fourth-quarter profit report late yesterday. Analysts had expected a 3 cent loss, but shares of Reebok are still down nearly 60 percent from their 52-week high. Electronic Data Systems (URL: http://www.eds.com/) up more than 1 1/2. The technology services firm beat fourth-quarter estimates by 2 cents. It cited $11 billion in new contracts -- four times more than last year. Altera (URL: http://www.altera.com/) up 5 3/4. Merrill Lynch raised its price target to $76 a share. It said January results at the chip maker appear very strong. And Alamosa, a PCS holdings, up more than 11 on its market debut. The regional wireless carrier priced at $17 a share. 

 VARNEY: One of the world`s biggest makers of fiber optic cable wants an even bigger piece of the market. Corning today said it will boost capacity by more than 50 percent. Shares of Corning  (URL: http://www.corning.com/) surged $6 today to close at $1.54 1/4. 

 Bruce Francis has more on Corning`s plans from the Banc America Tech 2000 Conference in San Francisco. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 BRUCE FRANCIS, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The Internet economy sees the light, and Corning is scrambling to keep up with the demand. Corning makes optical fiber, strands of specialized glass that carry voice, video or data. Demand is so great that Corning is announcing its second 50 percent increase in capacity in a year, spending an additional three-quarters of a billion dollars. 

 JOHN LOOSE, PRESIDENT & COO, CORNING: The demand for fiber is just nothing short of extraordinary. Bandwidth continues to grow exponentially, and Corning enjoys a very unique position in this market. FRANCIS: Unique and lucrative. Corning`s estimated 50 percent marketshare is now more than double that of its nearest competitor, Lucent. Corning management now believes the company`s fast-growing fiber business will account for 80 percent of its revenues next year. Corning has already sold all of the fiber it will be able to produce in the next two years, making expansion critical. 

 MARK GULLEY, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: You can`t sell apples off an empty apple cart. Corning is expanding optical fiber capacity by 50 percent, mostly at their Concord facility. And with volume growth at 30 percent per year, even a 50 percent expansion doesn`t last you that long. 

 FRANCIS: Fiberoptics and optical networking are hot right now because of 

 the rapid growth of traffic on the Internet. The technology is improving rapidly, too, so customers like Qwest are upgrading more often to make sure their networks are fast and inexpensive to use. It`s a story that investors have responded to. Corning shares have skyrocketed. 

 Paul Meeks doesn`t own Corning, but is considering buying after hearing the company`s outlook. 

 PAUL MEEKS, MERRILL LYNCH GLOBAL TECH. FUND: I think the stock will continue to outperform because the company is focused on "Photronics," which is one of the most robust themes in technology today. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 FRANCIS: Investors are most enthusiastic about Corning`s business in fiber optics, but Corning also makes the glass that goes into those flat-panel screens, the kinds of screens that you see in notebook computers and increasing new digital TVs. Both are very fast-growing segments --Stuart. 

 VARNEY: Bruce Francis, right there in San Francisco. Thanks, Bruce. 

 BAY: Also in San Francisco, Microsoft`s (URL: http://www.microsoft.com/) new CFO, John Connors, on hand to give tech analysts his take on Microsoft`s future. 

 Bruce Francis caught up with him after his speech and asked if Microsoft brass was preparing for a possible breakup. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 JOHN CONNORS, CFO, MICROSOFT: We`re not discussing any breakups internally. We`re very focused on innovating. We`re continuing to work with Judge Posner. There`s hearings scheduled for February 22, and we are anxious to move forward and either put it behind us or get it resolved. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 BAY: Microsoft, by the way, up just over 2 3/4 on the day. 

 In tonight`s "Tech Watch," the markets cheered two new deals announced by Hewlett-Packard. With Ford motor company, an initiative to hook up auto workers to the Internet from their homes. Under that deal, Ford will buy computers and printers from Hewlett-Packard and give them, free of charge, to all its employees. Ford will also provide cheap Internet access. Three-hundred and seventy-thousand workers worldwide are involved in this. As for the Kodak deal, a partnership to develop an inkjet photo processor, a less expensive alternative to existing minilabs. The Kodak deal met with investor approval. Hewlett-Packard up 3 even, and Kodak up 2 3/16. Ford up slightly as well. 

 Well, earlier today, I caught up with H-P`s Carly Fiorina, who was in Amsterdam, and Kodak`s Daniel Carp, who was in Las Vegas. I began by asking Fiorina to describe the new product. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 CARLY FIORINA, CEO, HEWLETT-PACKARD: We`re talking about digital photo finishing mini and microlabs; that is, units that are very small in footprint, that are lower cost than traditional photo finishing, and therefore, they can be made available to consumers in a whole host of outlets all around the world, opening up some new and nontraditional ways of make the joys of digital images available to consumers all around the world. 

 VARNEY (on camera) Daniel Carp, in Las Vegas, let me ask you this: What does Eastman Kodak get out of this? 

 DANIEL CARP, CEO, KODAK: Picture taking is growing over 6 percent worldwide and over 10 percent in the U.S. So there`s a lot going on. And the reason it`s growing is we`re giving people new things to do with pictures, and now Kodak and H-P, who probably are the only people that really could pull this off, are putting that technology into the retail infrastructure, and it will push the whole category to new heights. 

 VARNEY: Carly Fiorina, when does this start to affect your bottom line? 

 FIORINA: Well, as Dan mentioned, we`re expecting the products to be available in 2001. So we`re looking at revenue and profit in the joint venture at that time. We think the market opportunity here is quite huge. We`ve been fairly conservative in our revenue estimates, because we`re just at the beginning of this exciting and strategic opportunity. But we and Kodak do believe that the digital-imaging market is worth $10 billion. We think it`s got a lot of upside. 

 VARNEY: Can I also ask you about your plan, your venture with Ford (URL: http://www.ford.com/) here? As I understand it, you`re going to put computers, Hewlett-Packard computers, in the homes of some 370,000 Ford workers. Have I got that right? 

 FIORINA: Well, yes, but that is not a joint venture. This is an opportunity for us to provide to Ford employees all around the world printers as well as computers and Internet access, and we are helping Ford reinvent the way its workforce collaborates. But we`re here today really to talk about the exciting announcement with Kodak. But H-P is very proud of both of these exciting opportunities. 

 VARNEY: Putting these personal computers in the homes of all Ford employees around the world, you`re going to transform the way people actually go to work and do their work, aren`t you? 

 FIORINA: Well, first, I certainly want to give Ford tremendous credit for deciding to take this revolutionary step in equipping their workers in, as  you point out, profoundly new ways, but Hewlett-Packard is exceedingly proud to partner with Ford to help reinvent how workers collaborate. 

 VARNEY: Is ford paying for these computers? 

 FIORINA: Absolutely. 

 VARNEY: What does the consumer pay? 

 FIORINA: This is a very important revenue and profit opportunity for Hewlett-Packard with Ford. 

 VARNEY: Daniel Carp, if I may ask just one last question to you. Do you see the demise of the film business at some point in the future? 

 CARP: No. In fact, you know, digital cameras grew over 70 percent last year, and picture taking and traditional was up over 10 percent, the highest it`s been in many years. So what`s happening is because consumers like to use different products at different times, and because we`re giving more things to do with pictures like what we`re talking about with H-P today, there`s plenty of upside on all picture-taking formats. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: Looking for more of our "Tech Watch" take on these deals or perhaps other news in the tech sector, just log on to CNNfn.com for complete details. 

 BAY: Still to come on MONEYLINE: the political players drawing on a high-tech force in campaign 2000. We`ll tell you how the Web is fueling the race for the White House. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: As you might imagine, a number of stocks hit new 52-week highs today, including Immunex  (URL: http://www.immunex.com/) , Texas Instruments (URL: http://www.ti.com/) , Analog Devices (URL: http://www.analog.com) , LSI Logic (URL: http://www.lsilogic.com/) and News Corp (URL: http://www.newscorp.com/) . 

 Time now for a look at some of the day`s top stories outside the world of  business in the MONEYLINE news digest. 

 The data recorder from that Alaska Airlines crash recovered today. It`s being sent to Washington for analysis. On the cockpit voice recorder, salvaged yesterday, investigators hear the crew struggle to fix a  stabilizer problem. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 JIM HALL, CHAIRMAN, NTSB: The crew continued troubleshooting and preparing for the -- preparing the airplane for landing, then control was suddenly lost. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 BAY: The tape confirming accounts from witnesses, who say the plane rolled upside down before it crashed. 

 And conservative Republican Gary Bauer, apparently ready to quit campaign 2000. Bauer, who finished last in the New Hampshire primary, is expected to announce his decision tomorrow morning. 

 VARNEY: Still on politics, one critical part of a run for the White House is going high-tech. The popularity of the Internet is becoming, for the first time, a real force in campaign fund raising. And as Bob Beard reports, John McCain is among the candidates enjoying the benefits. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 SEN. JOHN MCCAIN, (R-AZ), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: ... Bush, by the way, it`s Mccain2000.com. 

 BOB BEARD, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Since John McCain`s stunning victory in the New Hampshire primary, he has raised over $800,000 from dot.com givers. 

 DAN SCHNUR, MCCAIN COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR: The Internet has turned out to be one of our most effective fund-raising tools. Originally when we  set up our Web site, we didn`t anticipate raising very much money off of the site at all. 

 BEARD: Instead, the Arizona Republican has raised a total of $2.3 million from over 20,000 contributors via the Web, Bill Bradley has raised $1.6 million. Al Gore, a close third with $1 million. And George Bush W. Bush lagging far behind on-line, with $260,000 raised. 

 PETER EISNER, CENTER FOR PUBLIC INTEGRITY: The Internet is just now coming of age, and for someone like John McCain especially, but also someone like Bill Bradley, both insurgent candidates. 

 There`s a wonderful populist feel to this. At the same time, a modern feel to it, as they try to portray themselves as against the establishment and against the ways things used to be. 

 BEARD: And they way things still are. In total fund raising, George W. Bush has raised more than $70 million, far surpassing his closest competitor, Al Gore, who has taken in about $30 million. 

 One software company, a forerunner in online fund raising, estimates the presidential candidates will raise $20 million in cyber cash this year. 

 JOHN PHILLIPS, CEO, ARISTOTLE.ORG: Within 3 1/2 to four years, $8 out of $10 given to political campaigns and to nonprofit organizations will be processed online, not by check. 

 BEARD (on camera): McCain may be trailing Bush in overall fund raising, but with the South Carolina primary looming, his campaign will be looking forward to booking new donations in seconds, thanks to the point-and-click revolution. 

 Bob Beard for CNN Financial News, Washington. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: And MONEYLINE will return in just a moment for you. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: There`s still lots more to come in our next half hour, including our top story, dazed and confused in the Chicago bond pits. 

 VARNEY: Yes indeed. As one bewildered trader put it, "I`m just trying to still be employed tomorrow, " as the bond market faces an uncertain future. 

 BAY: A boardroom saga ends, as Mattel shows its CEO to the door. More on the corporate shakeup and the latest dismal profit report from the toy giant. 

 VARNEY: And across the Atlantic, the biggest takeover, ever, but getting there was not pretty. The latest on Vodafone and Mannesmann. We`ll be back. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Bye-bye Barad, one of the very few female chief executives in the Fortune 500 forced out of Mattel. A giant for the wireless world, Vodafone Airtouch and Mannesmann agree to the biggest merger ever, ending  months of animosity between two of Europe`s telecom superpowers. And just when you think the bears have caught up with those high-flying techs, the Nasdaq takes a triple-digit leap, near record highs once again. 

 BAY: First, our top story: uproar in the bond market, there was frantic buying today in the Chicago bond pits. Panicked traders were clamoring for 30-year bonds, worried they won`t be around for much longer. The Treasury yesterday detailed plans to shrink the supply of government debt, especially long-term debt, a move that sent the 30- year bond at one point today, up 3 full points, a move only seen a few times in its history. In the end, it finished up more than 2 full points in price; the yield fell to 6.13 percent. Rumors were flying almost as fast as the buy orders, about an emergency New York Fed meeting and a hedge fund disaster. As one analyst put it: there is blood on the street. 

 We`ll have two reports tonight on the turmoil in the bond market, beginning with Ceci Rodgers in Chicago. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 RODGERS (voice-over): The U.S. Treasury`s 30-year bond, once the king and benchmark of credit markets worldwide, is being dethroned. The reason: the budget surplus, which is making those bonds obsolete. That hit home in  the bond pits on word that fewer new 30-year treasuries would be sold this year. Dealers scrambled to cover short positions in a market now threatened by scarcity. 

 MICHAEL MARZANO, GREENWICH NATWEST FUTURES: There is a limited supply of this issue out there and as time progresses and the issues are no longer auctioned and the Treasury actually buys more of the paperback it`s going to trade like a commodity after a while. 

 RODGERS: And commodities typically trade in wild gyrations. Such volatility could be brutal for banks, insurance companies and others who have  used the 30-year Treasury to hedge their risk in the more volatile mortgage and corporate bond markets. 

 STEPHEN ROACH, MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER: I think the conclusion to draw from this extraordinary volatility in the bond market is that gone are the days when we have a 30-year Treasury bond as the benchmark for borrowing costs for the U.S. economy. 

 RODGERS (on camera): Outside the pit they`re talking about the survivability of the 30-year bond as a benchmark. Inside the pit the talk is of day-to-day survival when bonds seemingly defy economic fundamentals. 

 (voice-over): In fact, this week`s bond rally sent the yield on the 30-year close to 6 percent, down from nearly 6.75 percent. That drop in interest rates flies squarely in the face of the Fed`s efforts to cool the economy, just yesterday the Fed hiked short-term rates by a quarter point. 

 PAUL MCCULLEY, PIMCO: You can declare the bond market bear market to be over in the long end, but we still have some work to do in the front end until the economy cries uncle and the Fed stops tightening, we`re not there yet. 

 RODGERS: And it may take more work on the Fed`s part to get there, especially if bond yields fall further. 

 Ceci Rodgers, CNN Financial News, Chicago. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 FRED KATAYAMA, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): I`m Fred Katayama in New York. 

 Exasperated bond traders say they have seen nothing like this in years --panic buying, investors scrambling to cover their bets that the 30-year treasuries would fall after its recent strength. What shocked fund managers and bond dealers: the Treasury`s move to cut sales of 30-year bonds. 

 MARIO DEROSE, EDWARD JONES: Some people caught by surprise by the Treasury`s announcement and held on to their short positions. Unfortunately, it did not bounce back as they thought and the pain just got worse and people just kept bailing out. 

 MICHELLE GIRARD, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: It`s surprising that the reaction in the treasury market has been so dramatic, and a lot of people are citing the dramatic flattening of the yield curve. 

 KATAYAMA: Bond prices jumped so high... 

 UNIDENTIFIED MALE: That`s up almost 2 points on the day. 

 KATAYAMA: There was plenty of talk on trading floors about firms getting squeezed, with some of Wall Street`s best and brightest bandied about as victims. So far, no confirmed losers, but bond traders agree many players must have suffered sizable losses for the market to act the way it did. At least one analyst compared the current situation to the long-term capital management debacle, the hedge fund that had to be bailed out. 

 (on camera): The New York Federal Reserve took the unusual step of commenting on one rumor, denying it held an emergency meeting with bond dealers. But it would not comment on rumors it bought short-term treasuries to calm the market. 

 Fred Katayama, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: The mad grab for bonds sparked a mad grab for techs. Investors ran away from companies that are perceived to be rate-sensitive, and poured money into what else? Technology stocks, which seem immune to big rate moves. The Dow industrials weren`t as volatile as bonds, but pretty close. After being down as many as 160 points, the blue chips ended up 10 points at 11,013. The Nasdaq seemed worlds away from the big board, it jumped 137 points. That is the third biggest point gain ever, the close: 4,210. That index now stands less than 25 points from its record, which was set almost two weeks ago. 

 Here are just five of the stocks that lit a fire under the Nasdaq: Microsoft, Intel (URL: http://www.intel.com/) , Cisco (URL: http://www.cisco.com/) , Apple (URL: http://www.apple.com/) , and Amazon.com (URL: http://www.amazon.com/) , which surged nearly 14 3/4 after it said late yesterday that its book business did indeed turn a profit. 

 BAY: A forced make-over late today at Mattel: the board said it had enough of chairman and CEO Jill Barad, one of the most powerful women in business. The moves come as the maker of Barbie dolls reported another disappointing quarter, the stock down about a dollar in heavy after hours trade. 

 Greg Clarkin reports. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 GREG CLARKIN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Jill Barad is out of Mattel. Three years after being named CEO of the toy maker, Barad is shown  the door amid a sea of red ink from a disastrous acquisition. The latest quarter was the final blow. The company was expected to post profits of 20 cents a share, instead it lost 4 cents a share, more than $18 million total for the quarter. 

 The purchase of the Learning Company last May has been a bottom line nightmare. It was supposed to add millions in sales of interactive software and CD-roms, instead it`s lost hundreds of millions as demand for its products slowed. 

 JILL KRUTICK, SALOMON SMITH BARNEY: The Learning Company has some, you know, has very severe problems from the standpoint that the products which were believed to have a lot of growth embedded in them have turned out to be more mature than Mattel had anticipated. 

 CLARKIN: Mattel will take a restructuring charge of up to $100 million in the current quarter. And the stock has plunged to just above $10 a share from the mid 40`s two years ago. Barad was one of just four women running a Fortune 500 company and had spent almost 20 years at Mattel. She`s credited with building Barbie into an almost $2 billion franchise. 

 MARINA JACOBSON, BEAR STEARNS: Jill was very important in building up the Barbie brands and in creating a super brand out of Barbie, and a lot of the success associated with Mattel has been the success of the brand and the growth of that brand. 

 CLARKIN: And after slumping sales, Barbie has been selling again, sales were up 11 percent last quarter. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 CLARKIN: Mattel will be run now by members of its board. And analysts say Barad`s strength was as a marketer and a saleswoman, but not as a manager, and that`s left the company without a clear-cut successor -- Willow. 

 BAY: Barad was also notoriously ineffective at managing Wall Street, was she not? 

 CLARKIN: Exactly. This is a number of profit warnings she`s had in basically her short tenure there, three years or so. There has been quarter after quarter of repeatedly disappointing numbers. 

 BAY: Greg Clarkin, thank you. 

 CLARKIN: Sure. 

 VARNEY: And here`s what`s coming up next, the deal that redefines the term mega-merger. Vodafone Airtouch and Mannesmann agree to bury the hatchet and get ready to make some history. 

 BAY: Plus, a much smaller deal but one with great significance for the growing Linux community. Wall Street superstar VA Linux (URL: http://www.valinux.com/) in a buyout. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: All the way from pharmaceutical and telecom firms to the red-hot Linux sector, investors had a number of mergers to pour over today. Up first, as we`ve been telling you, Pfizer appears to have beaten American Home Products in the battle over Warner-Lambert. The consumer products and pharmaceutical firm tentatively agreed to a sweetened offer from Pfizer worth almost $85 billion. But the deal is far from over. AHP could act as a spoiler and make the deal more expensive for Pfizer. Shares of Warner-Lambert fell nearly 1 point today. Pfizer down 1/4. American Home Products actually gains nearly 1 3/4. 

 BAY: It had the biggest first-day performance in the history of IPOs, and now VA Linux systems is expanding. It will buy Andover.Net (URL: http://www.andover.net/) for nearly $1 billion in cash and stock. VA Linux hopes the deal will help  it become the dominant supplier of Linux-based information and products. Shares of Andover.net surged more than 9. VA Linux Systems fell 8 7/8. 

 And here`s a true megadeal from across the Atlantic: The board of German television giant Mannesmann late today announced that it has agreed to a revised offer from Britain`s Vodafone Airtouch. The deal, worth more than $180 billion, will create Europe`s biggest mobile phone company. Mannesmann drops months of resistance with the new bid, giving its shareholders 49.5 percent of the combined company. Now that values Mannesmann stock at 353 euros, roughly $353 U.S. dollars. The two companies unveiled the deal just hours ago in a hastily called press conference in Dusseldorf, Germany. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 CHRIS GENT, CEO, VODAFONE AIRTOUCH: You can see this is a valuable company. The value of Mannesmann today is in the order of 350 euros, and I think we both believe that this tremendous combination will seem to be among the best companies in the world. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 VARNEY: Mannesmann`s chief executive Klaus Esser will stay on several months to work on the transition. He`ll then assume a role as non-executive  vice chairman. 

 Concerns that Vodafone may have given up too much to close the deal hit its stock today. In New York trading, Vodafone lost more than a dollar, after losing far more than that in London`s regular trading session. Mannesmann does not trade in the United States, but its shares fell nearly 1.5 percent in Frankfurt. 

 BAY: But enthusiasm over that deal, combined with positive earnings news, helped light a fire under other telecom stocks today. 

 Alcatel (URL: http://www.alcatel.com/) soared more than 11 percent, after the French telecom equipment maker said it plans to split its stock five for one. Alcatel also reported a 12 percent jump in profits. Its shares closed up 5 1/8, to 48 5/8. Deutsche Telekom (URL: http://www.dtag.de/) soared 11 7/8. Telecom Italia (URL: http://www.telecomitalia.it/) , TelMex and Telefonica all moved higher as well. 

 VARNEY: Here`s what`s next on MONEYLINE: no holiday burnout at the malls last month. Oh, no. Shoppers braved some stormy weather to spend, spend, spend, and then go back and spend some more. 

 BAY: And we`ll get back to the buying spree making headlines in the bond market, and ask economist David Jones what this means for the Fed and for your portfolio. All that and more coming up when MONEYLINE continues. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Stocks and bonds today all but ignored the news that the booming economy of 1999 is stretching into 2000. An important measure of manufacturing growth, factory orders, climbed more than 3 percent in December. That helped to make last year the best for manufacturers since 1995. But perhaps more important, telling evidence from consumers that, so  far, the new year is just as strong. Retailers around the country attracted hordes of free-spending consumers, despite the January chill. 

 Susan Lisovicz has that story. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 SUSAN LISOVICZ, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Neither snow, nor slush, nor frigid cold prevented shoppers from making their appointed rounds in January. Severe winter weather forced many stores to close last month, yet hot consumer demand fueled a surge in spending that helped retailers post their biggest annual sales gains in 16 years. 

 The Gap (URL: http://www.gap.com/) racked up an increase of 11 percent, driven heavily by its value-oriented offshoot Old Navy. Target (URL: http://www.target.com/) discounter Target recorded gains of nearly 6 percent. And Federated, whose stores include Bloomingdale `s, picked up more than 4 percent. 

 MICHAEL GOULD, CHAIRMAN & CEO, BLOOMINGDALE`S: You could see customers in the stores. Even in really cold weather, people had a good feeling, and people are spending. So I think we feel good at Bloomingdale`s about the coming year. 

 LISOVICZ: January is typically a clearance month, but consumers bought so much over the holidays that retailers were able to charge full price for new goods. 

 Still, apparel continued to take a back seat to home furnishings. 

 MICHAEL EXSTEIN, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: When you have the type of housing turnover numbers we`ve had consistently, that feeds home-related items, and it doesn`t matter whether its sheets, or pillow cases, or furniture or electronics. 

 LISOVICZ: Those housing sales are fueled by a 32-year high in consumer confidence. But rising interest rates could put a dent in retail profits. The question is whether higher rates will also effect consumer sentiment. 

 KURT BARNARD, "BARNARD`S RETAIL TREND REPORT": So long as Americans are strong on jobs, so long as the unemployment factor is very, very low, and people earn money and decent money, consumers will be spending money. 

 LISOVICZ (on camera): Analysts say what`s most significant about this January`s sales numbers is that retailers are managing their inventory more effectively, and continuing to milk the longest economic expansion in  the nation`s history. 

 Susan Lisovicz, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: It was the Apparel makers who were among the best performers today on Wall Street. The Gap and The Limited  both rose sharply. But AnnTaylor (URL: N/A) got slammed after it issued a profit warning. Wal*Mart (URL: http://www.wal-mart.com/) fell more than $1. Kmart (URL: http://www.kmart.com/) didn`t budge. 

 BAY: Interest rates may be sliding in the bond market, but that has not translated yet into lower mortgage rates. This year, the 30 year fixed rose a tenth of a percentage point, to 8.34 percent. The 15-year fixed and 1-year adjustables also jumped. 

 Higher rates an issue in other world markets. The European Central Bank today raised the region`s benchmark rate by a quarter of a percent, within hours of the Fed`s rate hike. But unlike the Fed`s move, this one was unexpected. Bank officials said inflation crept to higher levels than expected. 

 VARNEY: Well, the Fed`s decision yesterday to hike rates led to harsh criticism of Alan Greenspan from some corners of Capitol Hill. But that didn`t stop the Senate from giving the Fed chairman four more years, voting overwhelmingly to confirm Mr. Greenspan for a fourth term. But four Democrats voted against his confirmation, on complaints that the Central Bank is choking off growth with interest rate hikes. 

 BAY: Alan Greenspan`s job of fighting inflation has become more difficult because of today`s craziness in the bond pits. Here now to talk about it in tonight`s "MONEYLINE Focus," David Jones, chief economist at Aubrey G. Lanston. 

 David, welcome back. 

 DAVID JONES, CHIEF ECONOMIST, AUBREY G. LANSTON: Nice to be with you. 

 BAY: What was it in today`s news or yesterday`s news that so rattled the 

 bond market today? What was in the details? 

 JONES: The Treasury`s announcement. In the debt-management business, we look for regularity, we look for order in the markets and no surprises. We got a big surprise from the Treasury, particularly in the long end of the market, when they said they`re cutting back supply even more than the markets expected. Once this supply dries up in that bond, it will  never be the same. 

 BAY: And the bond market, as a result, was caught up in a rather dramatic burst of short selling in a real squeeze. Who was buying? 

 JONES: Well, a lot of people at first, many people who saw the market as a trading opportunity, obviously; anybody who was long holding those bonds was making money, but also people who had guessed wrong  on the market and had to cover their positions and so -- and then on top of it, there were rumors of financial difficulties, and so we had a flight to quality, which caused even more buying of that bond today. 

 BAY: Rumors that hedge fund was in real trouble. Do you know anything about that? 

 JONES: No. Actually, I think that maybe some trading departments  and financial institutions were in trouble. Maybe a few jobs were lost, but we have got to remember the capital position in Wall Street is probably as strong as it`s ever been and I don`t think there was any systemic risk, I don`t think any institutions were in real trouble. 

 BAY: Was this one of the wildest days you have seen since you`ve covered bonds? 

 JONES: It is. And you know, you begin to get that sinking feeling in your stomach when rates move as fast as they do. You`re used to an orderly market, you`re used to rates coming down and then staying there. These just went straight down, particularly on that 30-year bond. BAY: What does this mean for the 30-year as a benchmark? 

 JONES: I think it`s gone. 

 BAY: What will we use in its place? 

 JONES: Many people think it will come back, it will behave again, but I don`t. I think we`ll have to move back into the 10-year area, which seems to be more reflective of fundamentals, and maybe we have to move into other sectors of the financial markets, the corporate bond market for example, where the supply is heavier and the corporate markets reflect the fundamentals better. Take a Ford Motor, an AT&T (URL: http://www.att.com/) , we may start to use those issues as benchmarks as well. 

 BAY: Chaos in the bond market for sure, but what does this do to the Fed and its actions? 

 JONES: It creates a nightmare, because the Fed is trying to push up interest rates, getting the rest of the rates to move along to cool off borrowing and spending in the economy. They push up short-term rates, all of a sudden long rates collapse. The Fed -- that`ll delay the affects of Fed policy. 

 BAY: What are Fed officials doing and thinking right now, though, after today? 

 JONES: Well, I -- my sense is that they have to wait and see whether or not the markets start to behave, become orderly again, but that process they don`t see very often and so it just makes it tougher. Their indicators in terms of long-term interest rates aren`t behaving the way they should. It will take a while before they get back in whack. 

 BAY: Where should investors looking for a safe investment be putting their money? 

 JONES: Well, I think the key here is that in the short term end of the market, in the two-year end of the market, for example, in treasuries, those rates have moved up and they`ll move up further if the Fed has to tighten further. It`s also a safe haven, it`s not very risky in that area. So my view is move your money back into money funds or those short-term treasuries and wait until the dust settles on that highly volatile long-term end of the market. 

 BAY: There is a lot of dust to be settling. 

 JONES: That`s right. 

 BAY: David Jones, thank you very much as always. 

 JONES: Thank you. 

 BAY: Just ahead on MONEYLINE, AMR (URL: http://www.amrcorp.com/) American Airlines  sets out to beat the  competition in a battle fought by the inch. We`ll tell you about it after the break. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Several big-time movers on Wall Street today, here`s a partial list: Adobe Systems (URL: http://www.adobe.com/) gained 7 3/4. Merrill Lynch upgraded the publishing software firm to a buy rating. It called Adobe stock undervalued. Metrocall (URL: http://www.metrocall.com/) gained more than 4 1/4, the most active stock on the Nasdaq. Three investors will pay $51 million for a stake in the paging services provider. Separately, MetroCall said AT&T will become its single biggest shareholder. Amid -- and then there is Centra Software (URL: http://www.centra.com/) , up 19 1/4 on its first day of trading. The Internet software maker priced at $14 a share. 

 BAY: Some other companies making news: AMR edged up nearly $1. The parent  of American Airlines is promising relief for passengers who feel packed in like sardines. The company says it`s removing about two rows from each of its planes, 7,200 seats in all, increasing leg room available for the remaining coach seats. The move, to cost $70 million, will cut the airline`s coach capacity by more than 6 percent. 

 And the  World Wrestling Federation Entertainment Inc. looks to fill that empty feeling football fans get after the Super Bowl. The WWF is planning its own football league, the XFL to kick off after next year`s NFL season. Wall Street didn`t seem too keen on the idea. Two brokerages downgraded the stock and it lost more than 4 today. It`s down 51 percent from its October high, hit the day it went public. Apparently Wall Street not ready for some more football. 

 VARNEY: I am not touching that with a 10-foot pole. 

 BAY: Up next, "Ahead Of The Curve," some of what you need to know tonight before the markets open tomorrow. 

 VARNEY: You`re watching MONEYLINE. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Economic news should take center stage on Wall Street tomorrow. The January employment report due out at 8:30 a.m. Eastern. Economists expect 255,000 new jobs were created, with the unemployment rate down to 4 percent even. Also, keep an eye on shares of Mattel. Jill Barad stepped down as CEO, and after the bell Mattel reported a fourth quarter loss. Analysts had expected a 25 cent per share profit. The stock down more than 1 point in after-hours trading. And also watch Pixar, after the bell, the animation studio beat profit estimates by a nickel. 

 BAY: That is MONEYLINE for this Thursday, I`m Willow Bay. 

 VARNEY: And I`m Stuart Varney. Thanks for joining us, good night from New York. "CROSSFIRE" is next. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc.  ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by  eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not  reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright  holder of such material.  This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document mnyl000020010808dw230006a




 FOCUS-AnnTaylor off 20 percent after  profit warning . 

 By Anna Driver 
414 words
3 February 2000
18:49
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 CHICAGO, Feb 3 (Reuters) - Shares of women's apparel retailer AnnTaylor Stores Corp.  fell more than 20 percent on Thursday after the company warned its fourth quarter profits would fall below expectations, due in part to a winter clothing sale that weighed on results. 

 Earlier, New York-based AnnTaylor said it expected its earnings per share for the fiscal fourth quarter ended Jan. 29 to range from 50 to 51 cents a diluted share, well below the First Call/Thomson Financial analysts' consensus of 57 cents a share. 

 In the year-ago fourth quarter, the company earned 49 cents a share. 

 Shares of AnnTaylor were off 4-3/8 at 17 in early afternoon trade on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 "In January, we executed an aggressive promotional strategy which generated significant sell-through of our remaining fall and holiday inventory," Patrick Spainhour, AnnTaylor's chairman, said in a statement. 

 "The success of our winter clearance event is supporting our transition into the spring season," he said. "The unanticipated effect of this was that our full price selling was overshadowed by our sale event." 

 The company also said sales at its stores open more than one year rose 2.8 percent, in line with analysts' estimates. 

 The earnings warning prompted downgrades from Wall Street analysts and helped send the stock to a fresh 52-week low. 

 Banc of America cut its rating on the upscale retailer to buy from strong buy, while Merrill Lynch cut its rating to near-term neutral from buy. 

 One analyst said the retailer's brand remained sound but investors were likely spooked by the company's profit warning and by analysts' expectations for sluggish same-store sales growth in February and March against strong comparisons in 1999. 

 "I think people aren't expecting very good news over the short term, and there could well be additional downward earnings revisions if the comp-sales numbers are a little less than people expect," said Eliot Laurence, an analyst with J.C. Bradford. 

 Merrill Lynch analyst Mark Friedman wrote in a research note that the AnnTaylor brand had strength in the long term, but he does not expect the company's share price to rise materially in the intermediate term. 

 AnnTaylor operates 405 stores in 42 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. 

 ((-Chicago Equities News at 312-408-8787, chicago.equities.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010822dw2301t5m




 RESEARCH ALERT-Merrill cuts AnnTaylor rating. 

292 words
3 February 2000
17:52
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Feb 3 (Reuters) - Merrill Lynch said on Thursday analyst Mark Friedman cut his intermediate or near-term rating on AnnTaylor Stores Corp.  shares to "neutral" from "buy" after the retailer said it expected to post quarterly earnings that fall short of Wall Street forecasts. 

 - After the profit warning, AnnTaylor shares were trading more than 20 percent lower, down 4-7/16 at 16-15/16 in afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange, after touching a fresh 52-week low of 16-3/8 earlier in the session. 

 - Earlier Thursday, AnnTaylor said it expected fourth-quarter earnings of $0.50 to $0.51 a share, at least 8 cents less than Friedman's original estimate of $0.59. The retailer also posted a 2.8 percent increase in same-store sales - in stores opened at least a year - meeting forecasts for the four week ended Jan. 29. 

 - AnnTaylor said its earnings were held back by slightly higher sales of marked-down goods and somewhat by investments in the Internet business. 

 - Friedman may lower his 2000 earnings estimate by about $0.15 a share from the current $2.60 because of higher Internet sales, general and administrative costs. 

 - The analyst's estimates of AnnTaylor's total sales in the first six months of 2000 remain intact. 

 - "We believe that management will have to rebuild credibility in light of these developments, and given that comparisons in the near future will be quite challenging, we do not believe that the shares will exhibit material upside in the intermediate term," Friedman wrote in a research note. ((New York newsroom, 212 859-1700, fax 212 859-1717, or nyc.equities.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010822dw2301svh




 Integrated Electrical Shares Tumble Following  Profit Warning 

511 words
2 February 2000
17:27
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Shares of Integrated Electrical Services Inc. tumbled and analysts cut their ratings after the electrical contracting firm issued a weak outlook and announced changes in its management structure. 

 The profit warning surprised analysts, especially in light of an estimate by the company that revenue for the quarter will come in about $325 million to $335 million, which is in line with expectations. That means the bulk of the profit disappointment will stem from lower-than-expected margins. 

 Houston-based Integrated Electrical (IEE) Tuesday warned it expects to post earnings of $2.3 million to $3.1 million, or six cents to eight cents a share, for the fiscal first quarter ended Dec. 31. The mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial was for first-quarter earnings of 33 cents a share. 

 Analysts said they now expect Integrated Electrical to record a 3% to 4% operating margin for the quarter, compared with previous estimates of 8% to 9%. 

 Merrill Lynch Global Securities analyst Joseph Sroka cut his intermediate-term rating on the company to "neutral" from "buy". However, he is maintaining a "buy" rating for long-term investors, meaning those who can invest for a year or more. 

 Credit Suisse First Boston's Joshua Rosen cut his Integrated Electrical rating to "buy" from "strong buy", but said he decided not to cut the rating lower because of the stock's rapid drop in value. 

 "Under normal circumstances, given the amount of margin erosion, I would probably cut the stock to hold," he said. "But the valuation is just too compelling" at current prices. 

 Still, Rosen said Integrated Electrical must prove in the near term that it can get back on track and return to previous profit levels. 

 Integrated Electrical officials blamed the margin pressure on a host of issues, including some project delays in the quarter, as well as increased competition and under-performance by some of its companies, which it declined to name. The company also said corporate costs, such as health care costs, were coincidentally higher in the quarter. 

 The company realigned its operating structure into eastern and western divisions and named a new executive vice president and five senior vice presidents. The company named John Wombwell executive vice president, legal and administration. He previously served as senior vice president and general counsel. 

 Integrated Electric named Bob Weik senior vice president of western operations, and H.R. Allen senior vice president of eastern operations. Weik and Allen were both regional operating officers. 

 The company named Bobby Stalvey senior vice president of operation services. Stalvey was a vice president of special projects. Jim Thurman was named senior vice president of business development. The company said Thurman was head of Thurman & O'Connell of Louisville. Russ Crawford was named senior vice president of procurement and information systems. Crawford was owner of an electrical distribution business. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dw22011um




 Blue Circle eyes U.S. Southdown bid-paper. 

438 words
1 February 2000
02:39
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, Jan 31 (Reuters) - British cement producer Blue Circle Industries Plc could upset the takeover plans of its French stalker Lafarge  with a bid for U.S.-based Southdown Inc , the Times newspaper said on Tuesday. 

 Lafarge made an informal approach to Blue Circle - Britain's biggest cement producer - on Sunday night with a possible bid price that Blue Circle said "significantly undervalued" it. 

 But the Times said Blue Circle had stepped up its existing interest in a takeover bid for U.S. cement-maker Southdown in the wake of Lafarge's approach. 

 Lafarge, the world's leading building materials supplier, is widely believed to have informally pitched a bid price of 430 pence a share, valuing Blue Circle at 3.5 billion pounds ($5.68 billion). 

 Blue Circle declined to comment on the Times report, which estimated that Southdown was capitalised at $1.85 billion. 

 Shares in Blue Circle rose more than 20 percent on Monday to close at 414 pence a share, but have been underperforming both the FTSE all share and chemicals index in recent months. 

 Industry insiders told Reuters that Lafarge was expected to deliver a bid early on Tuesday. 

 Britain's Independent newspaper said in its Tuesday edition the Lafarge offer will be an increased one. 

 If Lafarge manages to buy Blue Circle it would be its second big acquisition in the UK in three years, following its 1.8 billion pound purchase of Redland cement company. 

 Blue Circle has been tipped as a possible bid target since three takeovers in the latter half of 1999 began the integration of cement and concrete producers in the UK, dramatically changing the market dynamics. 

 To add to the attraction of a bid or merger, Blue Circle shares have come under considerable pressure in the past few weeks, after the company delivered a profit warning and declared a price war on its rivals in the Malaysian cement market. 

 Shares in Blue Circle have fallen from a more than two-year high of around 485 pence a share in June to an 11-month low of around 258p in late October, after Chief Executive Rick Haythornthwaite said he expected an 18 percent decline in the firm's pre-tax, pre-exceptional profits this year. 

 Last year, Blue Circle sold about 6.2 million tonnes of cement out of about 13 million tonnes for the entire UK market. 

 Analysts reckoned a loss of one million tonnes to Blue Circle's market share was equal to an 18 million pound reduction in its profits. ($1=.6159 Pound). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010822dw21038fb

Search Summary

 Text((“profit*” same “warning*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”))) OR ((“profit*” same “fall*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“headwind” same “profit*”) (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”)))   Date02/01/2000 to 02/29/2000   SourceAll Sources   AuthorAll Authors   CompanyAll Companies   SubjectCorporate/Industrial News   IndustryAll Industries   RegionUnited States   LanguageEnglish   Results Found31   Timestamp27 March 2018 9:57  
 Page 67 of 67     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

