 
•	 Century Business Issues 4th-Quarter  Profit Warning  As Stock Slumps
•	  FOCUS-Amazon.com cuts 150 people from workforce. 
•	  FOCUS-Amazon.com cuts 150 people from workforce. 
•	  MONEYLINE; CNNfn 
•	  FOCUS - Lockheed cuts 2,800 jobs, tightens units. 
•	  CME March Nasdaq 100 futures fall first limit. 
•	  Direct PC sales model turns on Dell, Gateway. 
•	  FOCUS - Eli Lilly net rises without help from Prozac. 
•	  U.S. stocks drop on Dell view - bonds up, euro falls. 
•	  Stocks drop after Dell warning - bonds up, euro falls. 
•	  U.S. stocks weaken in late trading on Dell warning. 
•	  MONEYLINE; CNNfn 
•	  Dell Computer Issues Earnings Warning 
•	  Blue chips up in late morning as technology slides. 
•	  U.S. stocks open mixed, Qualcomm leads techs lower. 
•	  MONEYLINE; Co - CEO 
•	 Drug Distributor Bergen Brunswig Posts  Profit  Drop, Issues  Warning
•	  FFBN Tech Wrap: Chip Equip Group Leads Tech Stks Lower 
•	  EARNINGS AT&T's Profit Slips on Acquisition Costs, Consumer Sales 
•	  FOCUS - AT&T fourth quarter profits fall 42 percent. 
•	  Xerox Earnings Plunge 52% On Y2K Slowdown, Competition From Printers 
•	  Xerox CEO Puts Reorg Charges In 'Hundreds Of Millions' 
•	  Sweet Harmony: Time Warner, EMI To Join Music Units In 20 Billion Euros Venture --- With AOL Deal, Accord Promises to Speed Move Of...
•	  Analysts' spin on EMI hits stock.(Brief Article) 
•	  RESEARCH ALERT-ABN AMRO cuts EMI profit forecasts. 
•	  IN THE MONEY 
•	  RESEARCH ALERT - Convergent downgraded. 
•	  MONEYLINE; CNNfn 
•	 Lucent Hits Low End Of Range Set In 1st Quarter  Profit Warning
•	  Daily Mail, London, Market Report 
•	  Alcatel off amid busy Genesys arbitrage. 
•	  Xerox Unveils Strategy To Hone In On Digital, Paper Document Markets 
•	  CREATING A NEW KFORCE ON THE NET Series: COVER STORY 
•	  Analytical Surveys Cuts Work Force Through Reliance On Indian Firm 
•	  RESEARCH ALERT - Merrill sees Dell Q4 in danger. 
•	  Lucent Stock Drops On Rumors Of SEC Accounting Probe 
•	  Sainsbury CEO Steps Down In Wake Of Investor Pressure 
•	  Sainsbury CEO Steps Down In Wake Of Investor Pressure 
•	 Fashion Designer Tommy Hilfiger Issues  Profit Warning
•	  U.S. stocks in positive territory at midday. 
•	 FOCUS-Tommy Hilfiger plunges on  profit warning .
•	 U.S. stocks end higher as bond yields  decline .
•	  U.S. stocks up in late morning, inflation data benign. 
•	  Eicon Tech Says Overhaul Of Operations Not Necessary 
•	  C-C Amatil shares bounce off six year low. 
•	  ADR Report-Tech, telcom ADRs sway amid volatility. 
•	  In Yet Another Profit Alert, Bank One Sees 19% Decrease 
•	 Toys 'R' Us takes CEO from FAO Schwarz: Removes uncertainty:  Profit warning  in face of increased competition
•	  U.S. stocks mixed at midday, pressured by bond. 
•	  BUSINESS TODAY Series: BUSINESS TODAY; Correction 
•	  Point Of View: Kingfisher's CEO Making The Right Moves 
•	 Breakfast Briefing // Chicago 
•	 Chicago-Based Insurance Brokerage Sees Stock Slide after  Profit Warning
•	  Lucent's woes may carry into second quarter. 
•	 `Old' In Vogue As BHP Tops $21
•	  FOCUS-Lucent's woes may linger past first quarter. 
•	  Lucent's woes may linger longer than first quarter. 
•	  FOCUS - Lucent weighs on Australian stocks. 
•	  Lucent Missed Chance To Extend Dominance, Analysts Say 
•	  3M, Dow Chemical, Bowater Rise As Old-Value Names Find Favor   
•	 Casino stocks off after Mandalay  profit warning .
•	  Nasdaq steady at mid-session amid losses. 
•	  Nasdaq drops after tech sector profit warnings. 
•	  Nasdaq logs third day of steep losses, broad selloff. 
•	 Mandalay stock hit by  profit warning , but others gain.
•	  MONEYLINE; CNNfn 
•	 AHL Services'  Profit Warning  Prompts Ratings Cuts, Tumble In Shares
•	  RESEARCH ALERT-ING cuts Baan EPS estimates. 
•	 FOCUS-BMC Software shares hit by  profit warning .
•	  MONEYLINE; Co - CEO 
•	 BMC Software Surprises Investors With 3rd-Quarter  Profit Warning
•	  Nasdaq hits new session low in late trade. 
•	  Nasdaq drops on Fed fears, plays catch-up on bonds. 
•	  FOCUS-Baan slumps on CEO departure, loss forecast. 
•	  Nasdaq logs biggest point fall in broad sell-off. 
•	 Alterra Healthcare Shares Take Drubbing On Heels Of  Profit Warning
•	  Creating Value. 



 Century Business Issues 4th-Quarter  Profit Warning  As Stock Slumps 

448 words
31 January 2000
16:09
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Century Business Services Inc. warned Monday that its fourth-quarter results will fall short of analysts' estimates and also announced that its president and chief operating officer had resigned. 

 Shares of the Cleveland-based accounting and business-services concern tumbled and Merrill Lynch & Co. and Tucker Cleary trimmed their ratings on the company - one of the nation's largest accounting concerns. 

 Century Business (CBIZ) said it expects fourth-quarter results from continuing operations will be between a loss of two cents a share and earnings of two cents a share. The mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial was for earnings of 13 cents a share. The company anticipates revenue for the period will be around $137 million, below its budgeted figure of $150 million. 

 Century Business said business has fallen off after the company announced last October it was considering strategic options - including a sale or merger. Century said it also diverted management's attention from core operations. 

 Century Business said this problem was complicated by its diminishing stock price. Century Business shares closed Friday at $6.938, off sharply from their 52-week high of $16.125 reached last July 16. 

 The company said Fred M. Winkler, its president and chief operating officer, has resigned to pursue other interests. Winkler was named to the position in April. As interim president, Century Business named Jerome P. Grisko, currently senior vice president, mergers and acquisitions and legal affairs. The company also named Eldon Walter president of its accounting and tax group, the largest division of its business-services segment. 

 Century Business added that it will discontinue efforts directed toward exploring options and has ended its relationship with Merrill Lynch which served as an advisor. The company will now focus on its core operations, although it may consider an alliance in the future. 

 Meanwhile, Merrill (MER) cut its investment ratings on Century Business to "near-term neutral" from "near-term buy," and to "long-term accumulate" from "long-term buy." Additionally, Tucker Cleary trimmed its rating to "reduce" from "strong buy." 

 In light of the fourth-quarter setback, the company said it is currently reviewing 2000 forecasts and expects the review to result in a downward revision of internal forecasts. The mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial is for 2000 earnings of 68 cents a share. Fourth-quarter and year-end results will be announced on Feb. 29. 

 Century was formed from the 1996 merger of Republic Environmental Systems Inc. and specialty insurer Century Surety Co. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dw1v014dn




 FOCUS-Amazon.com cuts 150 people from workforce. 

401 words
28 January 2000
22:26
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LOS ANGELES, Jan 28 (Reuters) - Internet retail pioneer Amazon.com Inc. said on Friday that it had cut 150 people, or about two percent of its total workforce of 7,500. 

 "About 150 people are leaving the company. This is the result of an ongoing review," said Bill Curry, a spokesman for the Seattle-based company. 

 Curry said the layoffs were spread throughout the company, but that most occurred in the Seattle area. 

 "Our overall strategy has not changed one iota," Curry said adding that the company is still growing across the product lines and services it offers in the geographies its serves. 

 Curry said costs related to the job cuts would not result in a special charge to quarterly results. 

 Amazon's stock fell 5-1/4 to close at 61-11/16 on the Nasdaq, well off its 52-week high of 113. 

 Analysts said the stock decline was also due to overall nervousness about online retailing. "People are being more discerning about retailers on the Internet. They're stepping back and thinking its more competitive," said one analyst. 

 Indeed Internet toy store eToys Inc fell 13/16, closing at 16-1/16 on Friday, one day after it reported that its third quarter loss widened. 

 Both Amazon and eToys shares have fallen in recent weeks amid concern about competition from more traditional retailers who have stepped up their online efforts. 1 Despite a stellar holiday season, Amazon.com Inc. earlier this month issued another profit warning, saying its unexpectedly strong fourth quarter sales would not result in a smaller loss for the period. 

 The Internet retail giant said that, while its fourth quarter sales were up more than 150 percent to $650 million, it also incurred higher than expected inventory-related charges and write-downs. Amazon Chief Financial Officer Warren Jensen said those higher costs resulted, "in large part because we carried deep inventory in start-up businesses such as toys and electronics." 

 Investors have grown increasingly impatient with Amazon, which has never reported a profit and has repeatedly pushed back forecasts for when it might do so. 

 Amazon.com is expected to announce fourth-quarter earnings Feb. 2. The mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial is for a per-share loss of around 48 cents. 

 ((Los Angeles bureau, 213-380-2014)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw1s050im




 FOCUS-Amazon.com cuts 150 people from workforce. 

373 words
28 January 2000
21:38
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LOS ANGELES, Jan 28 (Reuters) - Internet retail pioneer Amazon.com Inc. said on Friday that it had cut 150 people, or about two percent of its total workforce of 7,500. 

 "About 150 people are leaving the company. This is the result of an ongoing review," said Bill Curry, a spokesman for the Seattle-based company. 

 Curry said the layoffs were spread throughout the company, but would not give further details. 

 Press reports indicated that most of the layoffs occurred in the Seattle area. 

 "Our overall strategy has not changed one iota," Curry said adding that the company is still growing across the product lines and services it offers in the geographies its serves. 

 The company did not say whether the job cuts would result in a charge against earnings, and a spokesman was not immediately available. 

 Amazon's stock fell 5-1/4 to close at 61-11/16 on the Nasdaq, well off its 52-week high of 113. 

 Analysts said the stock decline was also due to overall nervousness about online retailing. "People are being more discerning about retailers on the Internet. They're stepping back and thinking its more competitive," said one analyst. 

 Another Internet retailer, toy store eToys Inc, fell 13/16, closing at 16-1/16 on Friday, one day after it reported that its third quarter loss widened. 

 Both Amazon and eToys shares have fallen in recent weeks amid concern about competition from more traditional retailers like Wal-Mart Stores Inc., which have stepped up their online efforts. 

 Despite a stellar holiday season, Amazon.com Inc. earlier this month issued another profit warning, saying its unexpectedly strong fourth quarter sales would not result in a smaller loss for the period. 

 The Internet retail giant said that, while its fourth quarter sales were up more than 150 percent to $650 million, it also incurred higher than expected inventory-related charges and write-downs. 

 Investors have grown increasingly impatient with Amazon, which has never reported a profit and has repeatedly pushed back forecasts for when it might do so. 

 Amazon.com is expected to announce fourth-quarter earnings Feb. 2. 

 ((Los Angeles bureau, 213-380-2014)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw1s050f3


 Business 
 MONEYLINE; CNNfn 

 Willow Bay, Rhonda Schaffler, Charles Molineaux, Greg Clarkin, Fred Katayama, John Defterios, Casey Wian, Ceci Rodgers 
8,118 words
28 January 2000
23:30
CNNfn: Moneyline News Hour
MNYL
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 WILLOW BAY, CNNfn ANCHOR, MONEYLINE: Tonight, the Dow and Nasdaq, demolished in a fierce wave of selling, ended out a week in which $830 billion in market value was obliterated. 

 Bad news on Wall Street was bullish news for the bond market, as investors flee to long bonds, desperate for a safe-haven. 

 Why America`s most widely held stock is floundering in the eyes of someone who should know: Lucent (URL: http://www.lucent.com/) and its CEO in "The Bottom Line." 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 ROBERT RUBIN, FORMER TREASURY SECRETARY: The vice president of the United States, Al Gore, thank you. 

 AL GORE, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Thank you, Bob. That was great. Thank you. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 BAY: And the man who helped usher in history`s greatest expansion, and the contender who says he can keep the boom alive. An interview with Al Gore and Robert Rubin as our special series on the candidates continues. 

 ANNOUNCER: This is THE MONEYLINE NEWS HOUR. Reporting tonight from New York, Willow Bay. 

 BAY: Good evening. Stuart is on vacation. 

 Wall Street ended a punishing week in full retreat. The trouble began as soon as the government released two key economic reports an hour before the opening bell. Both showed price pressures building in a red-hot economy, the last thing inflation-phobic investors wanted to hear. By the time the closing bell rang, the Dow had plunged more than 2.5 percent and the Nasdaq fell even further, adding up to more than $400 billion in market value was wiped out. 

 Rhonda Schaffler reports. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 RHONDA SCHAFFLER, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The sell orders started  flying from the opening bell, sparked by the combination traders fear most: a red-hot economy with signs of inflation. The sell-off intensified as the day wore on. The Dow closed near its low, down  289 points to finish at 10738. 

 General Electric and JP Morgan were the biggest losers. 

 TOM GALLAGHER, CIBC WORLD MARKETS: Clearly for this year I think that we`ve seen the top, and I think that what we need here is a correction in the market to take a lot of the speculation out that a lot of people have been calling a bubble. And I think that speculation has been coming out in the last week or so. 

 SCHAFFLER: The sell-off on the Nasdaq today was even more dramatic. The composite tumbled 152 points, its second-worst point-drop ever, as investors slammed Internet stocks like Amazon (URL: http://www.amazon.com/) and eBay (URL: http://www.ebay.com/) . 

 While some traders say the losses this week are the beginning of a bigger pullback, others are more optimistic. 

 CHARLES LEMONDIDES, M&R CAPITAL: What`s more likely to happen is that the Nasdaq kind of flattens out for an extended period of time, where you just don`t see the torrid rate of advance. That`s the type of action we`ve seen in other leading groups in the past as they`ve lost their leadership. 

 SCHAFFLER: That includes drug stocks, which today for a change rallied. Investors were relieved President Clinton didn`t bash the industry over high drug prices in his State of the Union address. 

 He did take credit for the supercharged economy, which grew at a surprisingly strong 5.8 percent between October and December. The growth doesn`t scare stock investors but rising prices do. The inflation  gauge in the report rose at double its rate in the third quarter. And another report showed businesses` labor costs are rising faster than expected. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 SCHAFFLER: The conclusion today is not a question of whether the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates, but by how much. Some traders are now predicting policy makers will vote for a half a percentage point rate hike at their meeting next week -- Willow. 

 BAY: Rhonda, is there any indication that there might be some relief after the meeting next week? 

 SCHAFFLER: You know, it`s going to be a very hard call to make on that. There might be some relief if it`s a large rate hike, but what`s really concerning Wall Street is that this will be the first in a series of rate hikes continuing through spring. 

 BAY: Rhonda Schaffler, thank you. 

 While the damage on the Dow was substantial, the Nasdaq was hit even harder, falling more than 3.5 percent just one week after hitting  a record. The gloomy assessment from one strategist today? The air is finally coming out. 

 Charles Molineaux joins us now with more -- Charles. 

 CHARLES MOLINEAUX, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Willow, this was the second-worst one-day point loss ever for the Nasdaq. Strategists say investors in technology are spooked and that before this mornings`s economic numbers the Nasdaq was poised for a nice rally. Instead, investors sold off the stocks that have given them the best gains, and some traders say they`ve seen the burst of short selling as well. 

 It was the biggest of the high-flyers that took the worst beating. The Nasdaq composite lost 3.7 percent today, but the Nasdaq 100 index of the biggest caps fell more than five percent. It was just a week ago the Nasdaq was at a record 4235. It has since lost 348 points, 8.2 percent. Once again, we`re approaching the point where we start to suspect the market is approaching a correction. 

 Telecommunication stocks led the market down with a decline of four percent. Qualcomm (URL: http://www.qualcomm.com/) plummeted yet again. It is now below its statistically important 50-day moving average. 

 Computers fell by four percent. Apple (URL: http://www.apple.com/) lost 7.6 percent. Dell (URL: http://www.dell.com/) fell a little less than one percent even after a bullish analyst response to its earnings warning. 

 Internet stocks foundered. They dropped six percent. Yahoo! is now below its 50-day average. Internet incubator CMGI (URL: http://www.cmgi.com/) and Internet Capital Group (URL: http://www.icge.com/) plummeted two. 

 Biotechs sank three percent. 

 Strategists say it is the interest rates concerns, and they are going to 

 continue next week as we approach that Federal Reserve meeting -- Willow. 

 BAY: Charles Molineaux at the Nasdaq, thanks. 

 Today`s swan dive comes one week after the Nasdaq hit a record, two weeks after the Dow cracked a new high. In that short period of time, the major indexes have fallen so much that they`re edging toward a 10 percent correction. The Dow and Nasdaq are both down more than eight percent from their highs. And for a change, the S&P is faring a bit better. 

 For the week, the biggest Dow loser was Coca-Cola (URL: http://www.cocacola.com/) , down 16.8 percent, investors less than impressed with a massive restructuring. 

 Today`s big winner was the long bond, which soared more than a full point in what one trader described as "wacky and dramatic" moves. 

 The dollar was also higher against all the major currencies. 

 The question tonight on Wall Street: What will happen come Monday? That will be the last trading day of January, and unless the Dow rebounds solidly, it will go down as the worst January since 1978. 

 Joining us now to sort it all out, Vince Farrell. 

 Vince, welcome back. 

 VINCE FARRELL, SPEARS BENZAK: Thanks, Willow. 

 BAY: Will it go down as the worst January... 

 FARRELL: Yes. 

 BAY: ... since `78? 

 FARRELL: I think so. Remember, what we had last year was a market that was led by very few stocks. And those stocks are having the air taken out of them right now. Twenty-five stocks gave all the return on the S&P last year, so I don`t -- I wouldn`t get overly worried about  what`s going on here, but we`re overdue for a correction in those richly valued stocks. 

 BAY: And that is what we`re getting. We`re going to get a correction in just that sector of stocks? 

 FARRELL: Well, pretty much. If you take a look at some of the value based indices, while down, they are not down as much as the S&P or the Nasdaq. And when things do go down, when the big guys go down, everything goes down with it. Maybe not as much, but that`s when you see the leadership change. And I think that`s what`s going to go on now. You see a leadership change for the balance of the year. It`s very healthy, but it tends to be a little sloppy when it does first occur. 

 BAY: Taking the numbers that were out today, GDP and labor together, do you think this is an economy that needs some cooling off? And is it a pretty safe bet the Fed thinks that way, too? 

 FARRELL: Well, yes, I do. But it matters not at all what I think. And Mr. Greenspan does. I think today the traders in the market became utterly convinced Mr. Greenspan will do whatever it takes to slow the rate of growth down. I think that`s why the bond market did so well, because the conviction was that he will raise rates until the economy slows, which makes the long bond at the very high yield fairly attractive. So money put of stocks into the long bonds. 

 BAY: Safety there in bonds. 

 FARRELL: And there`s safety there in the long bond, a place to hide. 

 BAY: Now is it -- what happens if we get a 50-basis point hike on Tuesday? 

 FARRELL: Well, I think 50 basis points will really put the market its into a bit of a tizzy, because I think Mr. Greenspan has always been a gradualist. We`re expecting 25 basis points. The news we got today just confirmed that there will be more than one tightening in this year but not that it will come all at once. So if he were to jump ahead of the game and tighten 50 points, it might prove to be a good idea but it will shock the market. 

 BAY: Now are the days gone when investors would pay any price for a stock that had a dot.com name? 

 FARRELL: I hope so. You know, I really do think -- and with all due respect  for your parent -- I think that, and I mean this most complimentary, I think this AOL (URL: http://www.aol.com/) Time Warner (URL: http://www.timewarner.com/) deal really marks a bit of a watershed because I do think that AOL is saying that with their richly priced stock, they`re going to have to go buy some hard assets and some real cash flow. And I think if you take a look at that, you say 

 maybe they have a point there. I think it`s a brilliant deal, but I think you`re going to see a lot more and I think the edge will come off the speculative fever on the dot.com stock. 

 BAY: A solid dose of reality. 

 FARRELL: I think so. 

 BAY: Vince Farrell, thanks, as always. 

 FARRELL: Thanks, Willow. 

 BAY: Time now to take a quick look at what some of MONEYLINE`s other reporters are working on for tonight`s broadcast, beginning with Greg Clarkin -- Greg. 

 GREG CLARKIN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: Well, Willow, the selling was swift and severe today. But there was one group that posted big gains. I`ll tell you why those drug stocks jumped. 

 FRED KATAYAMA, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: And I`m Fred Katayama. 

 Lucent Technologies` stock skyrocketed as its earnings wowed Wall Street quarter after quarter. But its earnings streak snapped, and it`s stock has plummeted nearly 30 percent this year. Has Lucent lost its luster? I`ll take a look. 

 BAY: Also coming up on MONEYLINE, high in the Alps, the meeting that`s bringing top economic minds together. We`ll tell you about the day`s events at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. 

 ANNOUNCER: From CNN`s New York headquarters, this is THE MONEYLINE NEWS HOUR. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: While Wall Street traders suffered through a bruising session today, the economic elite was gathered 4,000 miles away in scenic Davos, Switzerland. 

 John Defterios is live in Davos with a look at day two of the World Economic Forum meeting -- John. 

 JOHN DEFTERIOS, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: Willow, the U.S. story is not a new one, but it is compelling, and most here at the annual meeting have come to expect stellar from the U.S., which is nearly double now the rate in Europe. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 RUDI DORNBUSCH, MIT ECONOMIST: I think we have a situation where the U.S. is still glorious and Europe is still pretty pathetic. I think that turnaround is about to come. I think the Fed is going to raise rates half, even 50 basis points. 

 ERNST WELTEKE, PRESIDENT, BUNDESBANK: ... the market price, and the markets realized that there`s potential for a high upswing of growth rate in the euro area, then we will see the Euro has very great potential for an upswing. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 DEFTERIOS: In fact, the German central banker took the unusual step of saying that the euro is an outright buy these days. 

 The world`s business leaders are expecting a much more aggressive Federal Reserve in the year 2000, balancing things out by raising interest rates starting next week. Perhaps that`s one reason they`re not panicking about the euro losing parody with the dollar. 

 All this would usually create a buzz at the World Economic Forum, but this time around, people are more interested in venture capital. Perhaps that`s why they`re sanguine about the global economic outlook. 

 Projected growth of 4 1/2 percent and monthly exports of $13 billion led President Ernesto Zedillo of Mexico to challenge those who are still resisting globalization. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 ERNESTO ZEDILLO, PRESIDENT OF MEXICO: (UNINTELLIGIBLE) by some globeaphobics are mere rhetorical subterfuges for concealing sheer protectionism and mostly against developing countries. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 DEFTERIOS: Like President Clinton, Zedillo is in the twilight of his presidency right now, giving him the opportunity in Davos, like President Clinton, to speak openly about global trade and those that are still against it -- Willow. 

 BAY: OK, John, we will check back in with you Monday. 

 John Defterios from Davos, thanks. 

 Checking some of tonight`s "MONEYLINE Movers": Eastman Chemical  (URL: http://www.ericsson.com/) soared nearly 4 1/2. The telecom equipment-maker beat fourth-quarter profit estimates and gave an upbeat forecast for 2000. Ericsson also announced plans for a four-for-one stock split. Over the past year, its shares have jumped more than 160 percent. 

 Job cuts at one e-tailing giant tops tonight`s "MONEYLINE Tech Watch." Amazon.com (URL: http://www.amazon.com/) will cut 150 jobs, or 2 percent of its work force. It said the layoffs are part of an internal reorganization and will not result in financial charges. But Amazon said there will be unspecified costs. 

 Today its shares lost 5 1/4. They`re off 45 percent from its 52- week high. 

 Coming up next, in hot pursuit of New Hampshire and of a New Hampshire win and with big plans for your money, Bill Bradley: What does his economic plan mean to the voters and to you? Our special series, "MONEYLINE 2000: The Candidates," that`s ahead. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: More now in our special series, "MONEYLINE 2000: The Candidates." With the help of some top economic analysts, we`re taking a detailed look at the economic policies of the major candidates: what they mean to the markets and your pocketbook. 

 Tonight: Bill Bradley. In New Hampshire, he began this week five points behind Vice President Gore. According to today`s CNN/Gallup poll, that gap has widened to 18 points. Bradley must convince New Hampshire that his  plan, which calls for bold and big government action, is the right one for today`s economy. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 BRADLEY: I`d like to be the good steward of a good economy, and by that I mean an economy that takes everybody to higher economic ground. 

 BAY (voice-over): Bradley`s challenge: convince Democratic voters to change course even though the economy is so good. 

 Bradley argues that the nation should use its current prosperity to help those left behind. He opposes reducing marginal tax rates or any decrease in capital gains or estate taxes. 

 GREG VALLIERE, SCHWAB WASHINGTON RESEARCH GROUP: I think that Bradley is well-positioned in not talking about big tax cuts, because (a) the American public is lukewarm, and (b), more importantly, Alan Greenspan is lukewarm about giving tax cuts. 

 BAY: Bradley played a key part in passing the landmark Tax Reform Act of 1986, which merged 15 tax rates into two. In 2000, he`s calling for a major federal assault on corporate tax shelters. 

 THOMAS GALLAGHER, ISI GROUP: There is not much momentum evident for that in the policy community or in the tax community. So that`s -- it`s a bit of a long-shot. 

 BAY: And Bradley supports the temporary moratorium on Internet taxes, but says future policies must be fair to bricks-and-mortar industries. 

 With surplus estimates rising, Bradley`s health care proposal may gain more credence. 

 BRADLEY: ... assure that every child in America is covered with health insurance, give every adult access to affordable health insurance, tax relief to pay the premiums for health insurance. 

 BAY: Bradley says the tab for his plan is $65 billion a year. Of that, $7 billion would cover the cost of making health insurance premiums tax-deductible. 

 Gore calls the proposal fiscally irresponsible, and some industry experts say Bradley`s plan could cost $100 billion a year. Bradley supports a so-called "lockbox" to protect the Social Security surplus, but has not offered a specific plan to save the troubled safety net. 

 Like Gore, Bradley supports free trade. But in a play for the labor vote, Bradley says he`ll help those hurt by the new global economy. 

 VALLIERE: Bradley would more emphasize credits, tax credits, or actual payments to workers that are hurt by free trade. 

 BAY: Still, Bradley is a NAFTA supporter and supports China`s bid to join the WTO. Bradley backed the reappointment of Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan. 

 BRADLEY: I voted for him. And of course this, I thought, was an appointment that the president made that certainly I`d support. 

 BAY: And counts former Fed Chairman Paul Volker and Wall Street economist Henry Kaufman as two of his economic advisers. 

 UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Bradley`s economic advisers, Volker, Kaufman, are fairly traditional and fairly conservative in their outlooks. I think that shows  that Bradley would not be any kind of wild-eyed visionary on the economy. 

 BAY: Still, Bradley believes government can and should play a central role in the economy. 

 BRADLEY: There are those who say. let`s pause, let`s rest a bit, survey the view from here. But that way will only make us go backward. As FDR said, Above all, try something. 

 BAY: After Tuesday`s disappointing showing in Iowa, Bradley has a tough job ahead convincing the party faithful that he`s right. (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: Bradley goes into New Hampshire the underdog, but his campaign is very well funded. His top contributors, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, come from Wall Street firms, including Goldman Sachs, Citigroup, Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. So far, Bradley has raised $27 million, and he started this year with more than $8 million in cash on hand. 

 Now we should let you know that we have invited all the candidates in this series and their chief financial advisers to join us. The Bradley campaign could make neither available. 

 BAY: On Monday, the eve of the New Hampshire primaries, our special series continues with a look at Steve Forbes, the man who wants to do in the federal tax code. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 STEVE FORBES (R), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Drive a stake through its heart, bury it, and hope it never arises again to terrorize the American people. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 BAY: But how would markets react to his radical plans? The Forbes economic platform, Monday, as our special series "MONEYLINE 2000: The Candidates" continues. 

 Still to come on MONEYLINE, dot.coms gambling millions on Super Bowl air time. Some companies wonder if the exposure is worth the expense. 

 That story and more just ahead. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: The second powerful winter storm in a week hammering the southeast, tying up millions, crippling business in places. In parts of Arkansas and Mississippi today, at least a foot of snow. And Delta Airlines has canceled 300 flights in and out of Atlanta, the host city for the Super Bowl. In tonight`s forecast, sleet and ice. 

 And a chill as well on the dot.com frenzy for Super Bowl ads. Internet companies have grabbed nearly 20 percent of the game`s advertising time. That early demand helped push the price of a 30-second ad spot to more than $2 million, even though some commercial time is still available. And some online firms are thinking twice now about the return on those costly spots. 

 Casey Wian reports. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 CASEY WIAN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Angeltips.com is a small Internet start-up with just 20 employees. But until recently, the company that matches Internet start-ups with investors had big plans for the Super Bowl. Angeltips` committed about $2.5 million for one Super Bowl ad and another during the pregame show. Now Angeltips is pulling out of the game and redirecting its dollars to other ABC programs. 

 STEVE FU, PRESIDENT & CEO, ANGELTIPS.COM: We`ve got some business initiatives that made us decide to refocus how we would launch our brand and spend our money more wisely over the course of the year with the network. So what`s most important is that we are still advertising. We`re just not using the Super Bowl to launch ourselves. 

 WIAN: With nearly a dozen dot.coms planning Super Bowl Ads, Angeltips also says it feared its message would be drowned out. 

 KEVIN WASSONG, SR. PARTNER, DIGITAL@JWT: You see a lot of consumers starting to numb to seeing so many dot.com messages. 

 WIAN: Screamingmedia.com also canceled its Super Bowl ads, but declined to say why. DLJDirect was never in the game, and in fact, is running ads outside the Super Bowl, boasting it`s staying on the sidelines. 

 BLAKE DARCY, CEO, DLJDIRECT: When we looked at making an investment in a 

 few seconds of ads on the Super Bowl, we saw that it would cost us millions of dollars, it was going to be a cluttered environment, and we thought that that was not a very good investment. 

 WIAN: Hotjobs, like most dot.com Super Bowl advertisers, is sticking with its game plan: one spot before and one during the contest. Stationary retailer Ourbeginning.com is spending $4 million, nearly four times its 1999 revenue, on the game. 

 MICHAEL BUDOWSKI, CEO, OURBEGINNING.COM: We looked at the Super Bowl as the largest audience that we could reach and an audience that is actually looking forward to viewing the commercials. Ourbeginning.com felt that was the quickest way for us to shorten our branding curve. 

 WIAN (on camera): A major concern for dot.com advertisers has been ABC`s demand that those without proven financial track records pay for their ads up front. It`s a demand that ABC can afford to make, because Super Bowl ad time has been sold out for weeks. 

 Casey Wian, CNN Financial News, Los Angeles. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: Coming up on MONEYLINE, more on today`s stock market plunge: Is there more peril ahead for stocks. 

 Plus, an interview with Vice President Al Gore and Former Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin. It`s the next chapter in our "MONEYLINE 2000" special report, coming up next. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) BAY: Good evening. Stuart is on vacation. 

 In tonight`s headlines, Wall Street begins and ends the week with a brutal sell-off. The Monday to Friday tally: $850 billion of market cap erased. 

 In our special series, "MONEYLINE 2000: The Candidates," we`ll ask Al Gore and Robert Rubin what it takes to keep the economy`s record run going. And there`s love lost for Lucent. 

 Tonight, "The Bottom Line" on whether it`s time to buy or sell America`s most widely held stock. 

 But first, our top story: a devastating session on Wall Street, one for the record books. Investors sold stocks with abandon after economic reports confirmed investors` worst fears: Supertanker USA is going strong and inflation is accelerating. The Dow industrials plunged more than 2.5 percent, the Nasdaq almost four percent. Selling capped a choppy week on 

 Wall Street and what on Monday might become the Dow`s worst January in two decades. 

 Greg Clarkin reports. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 CLARKIN (voice-over): A case of raw nerves on Wall Street. Jitters over economic overheating and the Federal Reserve`s meeting next week had investors urgently selling stocks. The damage was severe on the Nasdaq, suffering its second biggest one-day point loss, down 152 points. For the week, the Nasdaq dropped 8 percent. Recent favorites like Qualcomm (URL: http://www.qualcomm.com/) and Oracle tumbled. Amazon.com, Cisco and Sun Microsystems all fell. 

 ASH RAJAN, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: That`s the only place where you can take profits. I mean, when bank robbers were asked a long time ago, why do you rob from the banks? Well, that`s where the money is. Well, where do you take profits? Precisely where the technology sector is endowed with money. 

 CLARKIN: There was no relief on the Dow, the blue chips bouncing wildly before becoming mired in the red, down 289 points on the day and losing 4.5 percent on the week. General Electric, seen by many as a proxy on the U.S. economy, with its industrial, financial and media divisions, fell again. It`s down more than 10 percent in January. Wal*Mart (URL: http://www.wal-mart.com/) , GM (URL: http://www.gm.com/) , Intel (URL: http://www.intel.com/) and 3M (URL: http://www.mmm.com/)  all lost. 

 But there were survivors. Pharmaceutical companies gained after President Clinton`s State of the Union Address didn`t target the pricing of prescription drugs. Johnson & Johnson and Merck gained on that. First Data Corp. (URL: http://www.firstdatacorp.com/) jumped on earnings optimism. ARCO (URL: http://www.arco.com/) rose on optimism that hurdles to its takeover by BP Amoco (URL: http://www.bpamoco.com/) are being overcome. And Weyerhaeuser gained. But the steep January losses on wall street have market watchers on edge. 

 PETER GREEN, TECHNICAL ANALYST, GRUNTAL: The January indicators suggest that if stocks are up in January, likely we`ll have an up year. This implies that January will probably be a down month, and there may be some rough sledding for the year 2000. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 CLARKIN: And next week, it`s a good news, bad news situation. A bearish January ends on Monday, but there`s a slew of potential market- moving economic figures out, capped by the January employment report on Friday, and that`s seen by many as an indicator of where the U.S. economy  is heading -- Willow. 

 BAY: Good news, bad news. The mood -- how ugly was it? 

 CLARKIN: There`s a lot of uncertainty among folks, especially traders right now, trying to find a little bit of a firm footing in an atmosphere really where there isn`t any on a day-to-day basis. 

 BAY: Greg Clarkin, thank you. 

 CLARKIN: Sure. 

 BAY: Taking a closer look at today`s sell-off, as you might imagine, much more red than green among Big Board stocks. Decliners beat advancers by a more than two-to-one- margin. One-hundred and sixty-four stocks hit new lows. Only 16 reached new highs. 

 In search of a safe haven, investors fled to the Treasury markets. The 30-year Treasury up 26/32. The yield down to 6.44 percent. Earlier, the bond was down a full point on that stronger- than-expected economic news. Surprising signs of inflation also forced the markets to reassess what the Federal Reserve may do at next week`s policy meeting. We learned today that employment costs, a closely watched wage survey, climbed 1.1 percent in the fourth quarter and that the gross domestic product grew at a 5.8 percent annual rate, far faster than forecast. 

 Ceci Rodgers takes a look at what this could all mean for the Fed`s next move. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 CECI RODGERS, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The economy is roaring and inflation is starting to show up in everything from consumer goods to health care benefits. The one-two punch of outsized gains for fourth-quarter growth and employment costs pretty much sealed the fate of short-term interest rates controlled by the Federal Reserve. Economists say they`re going up this year by perhaps as much as a full percentage point. 

 SUSAN HERING, CARR FUTURES: The question isn`t whether, it`s when. Is it going to happen in just a few months, or is it going to take six to nine months? That`s what the markets really are debating about now. 

 RODGERS: The reason economists now expect a series of Fed moves is that the economy is showing few signs of slowing, even after the Fed`s three rate hikes last year. 

 DIANE SWONK, BANK ONE: The fourth quarter grew like gangbusters. For the Federal Reserve, a little bit concerning, especially with the increase in the deflator that we saw in those numbers and the extraordinary strength in consumer momentum. 

 RODGERS: But what`s bad for short-term interest rates was good today for the longer run, as Treasury securities with maturities from five years to 30 years rallied. 

 MICHAEL BOSS, IBJ LANSTON FUTURES: The market is looking ahead, and saying, hey, the Fed`s on the ball, they`re tightening, that`s good for long-term, you know, prospects for inflation. 

 RODGERS: In fact, today, the yield on The treasury`s five-year note moved above the rate on the 10-year note and the 30-year bond. 

 (on camera): That hasn`t happened in more than 10 years. Economists say when that does occurs, it could be an early sign of an economic slowdown, exactly what Fed policy makers would like to see. 

 Ceci Rodgers, CNN Financial News, Chicago. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: The possibility of a bigger-than-expected rate hike took its toll on one sector in particular today. Financial stocks moved sharply lower after several days of strong gains on solid profit reports. Shares of J.P. Morgan (URL: http://www.jpmorgan.com/) the hardest hit, down more than eight. American Express and Merrill Lynch down more than $4. Chase (URL: http://www.chase.com/) and Goldman Sachs lower as well. 

 Next on MONEYLINE, our special series: "MONEYLINE 2000: THE CANDIDATES" continues, with the Democratic front-runner himself, Vice President Al Gore, campaigning with a little help from a very important friend, Robert Rubin. 

 We`ll hear from both of them next. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: We continue now with our special series, "MONEYLINE 2000: The Candidates." We`ve been profiling the major GOP and Democratic contenders for the White House and have extended invitations to all of them to discuss their economic platforms here on MONEYLINE. One of the candidates who accepted the invitation brought an extremely influential guest along with him. 

 Earlier, I spoke with Vice President Al Gore and former Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin, campaigning in Portsmouth, New Hampshire. 

 I began by asking Mr. Gore why he asked Mr. Rubin to join him. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 GORE: He`s my friend and he has endorsed my campaign. He has also been a continuing and important source of economic policy advice for me. I feel 

 as if I learned a great deal from the experience of working alongside Bob Rubin for six-and-a-half years as part of the Clinton/Gore team, and these economic policies have been pretty successful, and I`ve been taking notes. 

 BAY: What element of Mr. Gore`s plan, if you had to pick one, would you think is most critical at keeping the economy on track? 

 RUBIN: If I had to pick one, I would say continuing with the dramatic change in fiscal discipline that occurred with the `93 deficit reduction program and that the vice president has strongly advocated, with respect to future economic policy. 

 BAY: It`s a fiscal... 

 RUBIN: Instead of -- instead of the kind of tax cuts and other programs that some people are advocating, which could undermine or put at risk our fiscal discipline. 

 BAY: Mr. Gore, after last night`s State of the Union speech, I`m sure a lot of folks are wondering, after years of fiscal discipline are we heading into an era of higher government spending? 

 GORE: Absolutely not. And in fact, the centerpiece of the economic plan outlined last night, I would remind you, is to pay off the national debt completely, the publicly held debt, by the year 2013. That is going to take real fiscal discipline. I am committed to it. And I think it`s a good policy from a progressive standpoint, because if we reduce our debt service and at the same time keep interest rates low, we`re going to have higher levels of economic growth. 

 BAY: Mr. Rubin, I wonder if you would give us some help with the numbers here. First of all, realistically, is it possible to pay off all the publicly held debt by 2013? 

 RUBIN: The answer to the question is yes, Willow. And when you see the president`s budget, which I think I have some familiarity with, what you 

 will see is it does precisely what the vice president said. It pays off all the publicly held debt of the federal government by 2013. 

 BAY: Walk us through some of these surplus numbers, if you would. We hear this number of $1.9 trillion over the next 10 years tossed around. 

 RUBIN: Let me take a one second shot and then turn it over to the vice president. The answer, Willow, is that the $1.9 trillion figure requires there to be an absolute -- an enormous and drastic reduction in defense spending and other spending. That won`t happen and it shouldn`t happen. But when you see the president`s budget, what you see is a reasonable and a prudent estimate of a surplus going forward. 

 GORE: You`ve got to have a tether to the real world, and having responsible numbers that are not overly optimistic is one of the keys to maintaining the confidence of the market and maintaining the harmony between fiscal and monetary policy. 

 BAY: Mr. Gore, do you follow the markets as closely as the president is reported to? 

 GORE: I follow the markets very, very closely. In fact, we were just talking about the markets a minute ago. I try not to comment on them publicly very often, but I follow the markets, the equities, bonds, the whole thing. 

 BAY: It is not an unlikely scenario that you would be, if elected president, presiding over an economic slowdown or a downturn. Does your plan require significant revision given that scenario? 

 GORE: Well, nobody`s under any illusion that we have somehow managed to repeal the business cycles. I think there is some tempting evidence that we may have flattened it out a little bit. 

 BAY: Mr. Gore, if elected, would you try to convince Mr. Rubin to leave that new corner office at Citibank and join you back in public service? 

 GORE: Well, I would be -- first of all, I`m not counting any unhatched chickens. The New Hampshire primary is next Tuesday, and I`m not making any personnel appointments. But if I have the honor of serving as president, I can`t think of anybody who I would rather have help the country again than Bob Rubin, although in deference to my friend here, I`ll just defend him against your suggestion, because I know that he personally feels like six and a half years was a long period of service. 

 But if we can -- but if I could ever convince him to come back into public service, I would sure want to. 

 BAY: Mr. Rubin, before we go, are your boxes unpacked? 

 RUBIN: My boxes are unpacked, Willow -- and I don`t have a corner office. 

 BAY: Oh, OK. Gentlemen... 

 RUBIN: Let me say, if I may, I would be deeply honored to serve with the vice president on the one hand. On the other hand, I am very pleased to be back in New York. 

 BAY: Gentlemen, thank you very much. 

 GORE: And Judy is pleased, too. 

 BAY: I`ll bet. Thanks again for joining us. 

 GORE: Thank you. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: Coming up, Coca-Cola promises to put some fizz back in its stock, but did Wall Street buy the story? And from Davos, we`ll ask Abby Joseph Cohen of Goldman Sachs whether Wall Street`s bull run still has legs. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Coca-Cola executives today made their case to Wall Street that the company has turned the corner on its recent problems. Two days after Coke unveiled a major reorganization and 6,000 job cuts, incoming CEO Douglas Daft released a fresh series of profit and volume forecasts. Analysts said these figures were more realistic. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 DOUG LANE, MERRILL LYNCH: There was a disconnect between the company`s internal, sort of, projections or forecasts and what the Street was expecting. So I think the key here is the company`s now bringing expectations back to be more in line with the Street, to be more realistic, and it will help them build credibility and manage expectations with investors. 

 BAY: The stock down nearly 2 1/2 today, it lost 17 percent this week alone. 

 One blockbuster IPO tops tonight`s other "Movers." 724 Solutions escaped today`s sell-off and soared more than 45 3/4 on its market debut, the Canadian software maker priced at $26 a share. 

 Guidant  (URL: http://www.guidant.com/) also moved higher today, up more than 4 3/4. ING Barings upgraded the medical equipment maker after it beat profit estimates. Guidant cited strong worldwide sales of its pacemakers. 

 And  Sapient Corporation (URL: http://www.sapient.com/) sank 32 1/2, trading at seven times its normal volume. The software developer and e-commerce consultant met earnings estimates, but analysts said they were hoping for more. 

 Investors will soon see a different look in their stock portfolios. The Securities and Exchange Commission ordered the financial markets to begin quoting prices in dollar and cents by July and phase out the current method of using fractions in securities prices. The SEC said the plan will help investors by boosting competition and making it easier to compare prices. 

 And now, on to the movers and shakers in the financial world meeting in Davos, Switzerland for the World Economic Forum`s annual meeting. One of the participants, the woman who practically personifies the bull market, Goldman Sachs Abby Joseph Cohen. In a conversation earlier today, she maintained her upbeat outlook for stocks. I also asked for an economic forecast for the year. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 ABBY JOSEPH COHEN, GOLDMAN SACHS: I think in 2000 we`ll have good growth in the United States, a somewhat slower rate of GDP expansion than in 1999 but still strong enough to generate profits of eight to 10 percent, and very importantly still generating more new jobs for American workers. 

 BAY: Is this earnings season so far, as some have suggested, one of the best you have seen? 

 COHEN: It`s been outstanding. At this point, still fewer than one half of all S&P 500 companies have reported. But of those, 67 percent have reported above consensus expectations. That`s terrific, because going into this earnings season expectations were already quite vigorous. 

 BAY: So, Abby, looking forward, though, can companies continue to perform as they have been? 

 COHEN: We think in 2000 there will be improvement in profit performance by a number of U.S. companies, and many of those are ones where global economic sluggishness was harmful to them in 1998 and most of 1999. In terms of others that had been performing well, like financial services and technology, we expect that to continue. 

 BAY: Abby, when you look at the picture globally, is there anything on the horizon that troubles you? 

 COHEN: Clearly, the picture in 2000 is much more comfortable globally than it was in 1998 or the beginning of 1999, but there are still some clouds. 

 I would point out that in several industrial nations the improvement in GDP has not been driven by domestic demand but rather by exports and strong government spending. We`ve not yet seen the domestic economies in those nations take on any sort of momentum and we really need to see that develop. 

 BAY: Where do you expect we`ll see momentum coming from first? Is Europe, for example, poised for real growth? 

 COHEN: Well, many of the participants here in Davos believe that Europe will, in fact, be enjoying some recovery. We`ve begun to see some cyclical upturn in a handful of nations in Europe. 

 In the United States, we think we had a good model. Corporate restructuring, when it was the only sort of restructuring, downsizing, was painful. People were losing their jobs, factories were being close. But in the United States, we have moved into the second phase of corporate restructuring, where people and corporate assets, their capital, have been reallocated to new faster growing types of businesses. We`re just now beginning to see that in Europe. We`re hopeful, but we`re not quite sure how long it`s going to take. 

 BAY: Abby Joseph Cohen, speaking from Davos, Switzerland. 

 Coming up: a Wall Street darling hits a brick wall in the new millennium; how Lucent Technologies` plans to win back investor confidence. The bottom line on America`s most widely held stock. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Now "The Bottom Line," our regular Friday feature on one company making moves and making news. Tonight, Lucent Technologies, America`s most widely held stock, hit 15 consecutive quarterly home runs, beating profit  estimates. But this last quarter, the steak ended and Lucent missed its target. Then questions arose over its accounting practices, sending this once high-flying stock into a tailspin. So what lies ahead? 

 Fred Katayama reports from Lucent`s headquarters in Murray Hill, New Jersey. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 KATAYAMA (voice-over): These glass tubes are revolutionizing communications, moving information 1,200 times faster than cable at lower cost. It`s one of the key areas fueling growth at Lucent Technologies. 

 RICHARD MCGINN, CHAIRMAN & CEO, LUCENT: We see a mesh, or a skin, of devices around the world that are connected to a network of networks. 

 KATAYAMA: Driving Lucent`s growth: the ambitions of chairman Richard McGinn. 

 MCGINN: We set really audacious goals for ourselves, challenged ourselves to grow rapidly, to take share in the fast-growing marketplace. And in 1999, we took six points of share, even though we are the largest in the industry. 

 KATAYAMA: The world`s largest telecom equipment maker competes in the hottest areas of communications, battling Canada`s Nortel Networks (URL: http://www.nortelnetworks.com/) in optical networking and circuit switches, Cisco Systems in data networking, Texas Instruments in communications chips, and Ericsson in wireless. 

 Lucent is the most widely held stock in America. McGinn`s mother has most of her savings in Lucent stock. Even though the company`s roots date back to the first phone, Lucent acts more like a young growth stock than an old-line industrial. By the end of last year, its stock had jumped more than nine-fold since AT&T spun it off in 1996. And its earnings have beaten analysts` expectations for 15 straight quarters. 

 But Lucent`s luster suddenly dimmed in the new millennium. Its stock plunged by a third when it issued a profit warning January 6. It sank again amid allegations it was supporting profits with overly aggressive accounting. And last week, its earnings streak snapped. First-quarter profits fell more than 20 percent from the year before. So far this month, Lucent`s stock has lost almost 29 percent. Among Lucent`s recent mistakes: It underestimated demand for fiber-optics equipment, losing some customers to Nortel. Lucent`s solution? 

 PATRICIA RUSSO, EXECUTIVE V.P. LUCENT: We have ramped up capacity in our factories, particularly in the optical area. We`ll triple capacity this quarter and double it again next quarter. 

 KATAYAMA (on camera): Despite the recent setbacks, Lucent is not stepping back. The company forecasts sales will grow by about 17 percent this year, which would beat the industry average. But the company is so big, to meet that target, it would have to grow its sales by $6.5 billion  this year. That`s roughly equivalent to all of Apple Computer`s sales last year. 

 (voice-over): It`s biggest challenge, shifting customers from old phone equipment to the new digital technologies. Some on Wall Street are skeptical. 

 ERIC BUCK, DONALDSON, LUFKIN & JENRETTE: To the extent that Lucent is successful in some of the newer technologies, such as optics, it`s going to be at the expense of older technologies. 

 ALEX CENA, SALOMON SMITH BARNEY: I currently have a hold rating on Lucent Technologies, primarily because the second-half expectations for Lucent Technologies I think are still a bit aggressive. 

 KATAYAMA: Lucent insists sales in optical and wireless technologies are not coming at the expense of traditional equipment sales, thanks to acquisitions and new products from its Bell labs. 

 And as for Lucent stock, McGinn vows to win back investor confidence. He doesn`t want to let down 4.5 million shareholders, or his mother. 

 Fred Katayama, CNN Financial News, Murray Hill, New Jersey. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: Lucent stock today down 2 1/4, to close at 55 3/16. 

 Up next, "Ahead of the Curve," some of what you need to know tonight before the markets open on Monday. ! 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: As we`ve mentioned next week, all eyes will be on the Federal Reserve. It`s two-day policy meeting kicks off on Tuesday. Investors expect the Central Bank to raise interest rates by 25 basis points. Some predict even more aggressive moves. 

 On the economic front, the January employment report, personal income and spending and new home sales. And watch profits. Sprint, United Parcel Service, Amazon.com, Nokia and Hershey Foods all due to report. 

 That is MONEYLINE for this Friday, and another very hectic financial week. I`m Willow Bay. Stuart will be back on Monday. Good night from New York. "CROSSFIRE" is next. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc.  ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.  No license  is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in  such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from  CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material.  This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document mnyl000020010808dw1s00065




 FOCUS - Lockheed cuts 2,800 jobs, tightens units. 

484 words
27 January 2000
20:45
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 27 (Reuters) - Lockheed Martin Corp. on Thursday said it is cutting more than 2,800 jobs, or 2 percent of its total work force, as it streamlines its aeronautical systems and space businesses in an effort to cut costs and speed decision-making. 

 Lockheed, the No. 2 U.S. aerospace and defence firm, said it would incur severance and other related expenses related to the actions, but such costs would be offset by an expected $200 million in annual savings. 

 The company is not currently planning to take a charge for the severance costs, a Lockheed spokesman said. Lockheed did not quantify the costs, which it said would not affect its previously disclosed earnings outlook. 

 The Bethesda, Md.-based maker of combat and military transport aircraft, satellite-launch systems and missiles said the moves would improve operations and speed decision-making by reducing management layers and centralizing administrative functions. 

 "These actions are the direct result of our continuing drive to improve our customer focus, flatten our management structure and enhance our financial performance," Vance Coffman, chairman and chief executive, said in a statement. 

 The giant defence contractor has had trouble keeping up with earnings expectations. In October it warned that profits will be lower next year than was previously expected. 

 The shares were down 7/8, at 19-3/16, in New York Stock Exchange Trading after the announcement. Their 52-week high was 46, which was reached May last year, before it issued an earlier profit warning. 

 Technology services and systems-integration businesses would be unaffected by the moves, spokesman James Fetig said. 

 Lockheed laid off about 5,450 workers last year. The current moves are part of an initiative to improve results by streamlining operations that Lockheed announced in September. 

 Most of the savings will be in aeronautical systems, which will consolidate into a unit to be named Lockheed Martin Aeronautics Co., headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas. It will be led by Dain Hancock, an executive vice president. 

 Job cuts at aeronautical businesses will total 2,500, in equal measure in Marietta, Ga., Palmdale, Calif., and Forth Worth. The new layoffs, plus a 2,000-person reduction previously announced for Marietta, bring the total reductions in aeronautical systems to 4,500. 

 The cuts in aeronautics will be completed within 18 months, Lockheed said, and save the company $160 million to $175 million annually. 

 Space systems will integrate into Lockheed Martin Space Systems Co. in Denver. It will be led by Albert Smith, also an executive vice president. Total staff cuts will be between 300 and 400, with about 60 percent from Sunnyvale, Calif., 30 percent from Denver and 10 percent from New Orleans. 

 Those actions will save $30 million to $40 million, Lockheed said. 

 ((-Simon Hirschfeld, New York Newsdesk, 212-859-1974, simon.hirschfeld@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw1r07po1




 CME March Nasdaq 100 futures fall first limit. 

141 words
27 January 2000
20:09
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 CHICAGO, Jan 27 (Reuters) - March Nasdaq 100 futures at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange fell their initial 82-point limit in midafternoon dealings. 

 Weakness in technology stocks after a profit warning from the second largest computer maker, Dell Computer Corp. , coupled with worries about a possible credit-tightening measure by the Federal Reserve at its FOMC meeting next week fuelled the decline, traders said. 

 Trading can take place at or above 3572.50, which is the first lower limit of 82 points or about 2.5 percent, in the March Nasdaq 100, for 10 minutes. If prices remain locked at that level at the end of 10 minutes, trading halts for two minutes. 

 When trade resumes, the next lower limit of 165 points, or about 5 percent, goes into effect. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw1r07pjy




 Direct PC sales model turns on Dell, Gateway. 

 By Duncan Martell 
721 words
27 January 2000
23:36
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 PALO ALTO, Calif., Jan 27 (Reuters) - High-flying and fast-moving Dell Computer Corp. and Gateway Inc. - the two biggest direct sellers of personal computers - both warned this month that results in their most recent quarters would fall short of Wall Street's lofty expectations. 

 Their more staid competitors, Compaq Computer Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co., both of which sell the bulk of their PCs through dealers, didn't. 

 "That's the downside of being super-efficient," said PC analyst Bruce Stephen of market researcher International Data Corp. "There's just a much thinner margin of error in the direct world." 

 Dell, which on Wednesday warned fourth-quarter results would fall short of expectations due partly to chip shortages from Intel Corp. and a Y2K-inspired crimp in sales, had long been a Wall Street darling. For quarter after quarter, sales surged north of 50 percent as it pioneered building PCs to order and keeping on hand only three days of inventory. 

 Yet that direct model, as Gateway and Dell showed, can also be a double-edged sword. It's hardly a profound observation, analysts noted, but it is a clear example of how living on the edge and getting out the latest-greatest PCs can sometimes be hazardous to a direct PC company's health. 

 Dell said on Wednesday it expected sales of about $6.7 billion for the quarter ending on Friday, an increase of 30 percent from a year ago but well below its prior-year growth rate in the high 30-percent range and an historic growth rate of 50 percent or more. Earnings will be about $430 million, or 16 cents a share, compared with analyst forecasts of 21 cents before the profit warning. 

 Gateway last week reported fourth-quarter results that declined to $126 million, or 38 cents a share, compared with $129 million, or 40 cents, a year earlier. 

 The fourth quarter, said semiconductor analyst Dan Scovel at Fahnestock & Co., also was fraught with cross-currents: weaker commercial PC sales, stronger-than-forecast consumer demand, Intel's inability to meet that demand with its speediest processors, as well as a hangover from the Taiwan earthquake that sparked a shortage of graphics chips and chipsets. These factors conspired to hit the direct PC makers more than the indirect ones, Scovel said. 

 Also hurting Dell and Gateway was Intel's decision to stop selling its Pentium III processors running at 450 megahertz, said analyst Ashok Kumar at U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray. "Intel didn't cut the price on the 500 (megahertz Pentium III) and customers had to eat the difference," Kumar said. 

 And, by the end of the quarter, the time required for No. 2 PC maker Dell from when it received an order to when the PC was delivered swelled to 25 days from its typical range of seven to 10 days, Kumar said. Both Gateway and Dell cited "spotty and unreliable" microprocessor shipments from Intel, the world's biggest chipmaker. 

 Intel spokesman Michael Sullivan said the company experienced strong demand in 1999 and that demand exceeded initial forecasts. IDC, for example, first projected U.S. fourth-quarter PC unit shipments to rise 13 percent but this week said preliminary data put the figure at 17 percent. 

 "The reason the direct model worked so well in the past was because you were able to place the inventory risk on your supplier," said Richard Slinn, a money manager and holder of technology stocks at San Francisco-based Levensohn Capital Management. "But when prices are going up that gives your supplier all the power and that's what happened in Intel's case." 

 Ultimately, analysts said, the supply-demand forces will work themselves out. Intel expects by the end of March to be able to meet all the demand that's out there and analysts expect a modest rebound in PC sales following the Y2K issue. But it doesn't necessarily help answer the question of what Dell and Gateway do if it happens again. 

 "What does a direct model like Dell do to prevent this from happening," Slinn said. "That's a great question and if I knew the answer I guess I'd be the chairman of Dell." 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw1r07oxs




 FOCUS - Eli Lilly net rises without help from Prozac. 

 By Debra Sherman 
403 words
27 January 2000
14:46
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 CHICAGO, Jan 27 (Reuters) - Drug maker Eli Lilly and Co. on Thursday said its operating income for the fourth quarter soared 20 percent even as sales of its blockbuster antidepressant drug Prozac tumbled 13 percent. 

 Lilly said profits, excluding one-time items, totalled $671.7 million, or 61 cents per share, in line with Wall Street's estimates compiled by First Call/Thomson Financial. In the year-earlier quarter it earned $561.6 million, or 50 cents a share. 

 Worldwide sales grew 7 percent, to $2.82 billion from $2.64 billion a year earlier. 

 Prozac sales fell 13 percent globally for the second straight quarter, to $645.2 million. Lilly's patent on Prozac expires in late 2003. 

 "The most compelling aspect is that the company can grow without Prozac," said Barbara Ryan, an analyst with Bankers Trust New York. "What is happening is that Lilly is diluting its dependence on Prozac." 

 Leading the revenue surge was a 79 percent rise in sales of Evista, an osteoporosis treatment. 

 Gemzar, a treatment for bladder cancer, posted a 43 percent rise in sales; Zyprexa, an antipsychotic drug, saw sales rise 36 percent; and the heart drug ReoPro registered a 16 percent increase in sales. 

 "Evista has the potential for being a blockbuster," said pharmaceutical analyst Hemant Shah of HKS & Co. "Zyprexa has a lot of potential, but it can never totally replace Prozac sales. The market may not be large enough." 

 Shah said it is looking less likely that Prozac sales will rebound because there are now so many other antidepressant drugs on the market. 

 "The challenge for Lilly will be to maintain sales growth or manage the decline," he said. "But there are lots of other shining stars out there." 

 Lilly shares opened at 62, down 3/4, near the 52-week low of 60-6/16, but then bounced back. They were up 1/4 at 63 in early morning trading on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Ryan said she looks for an eventual rebound in the shares based on valuations. 

 "When tech stocks are screaming, it's hard to care about drug companies, but if Dell's (profit) warning hurts the tech sector, pharmaceuticals as a group could recover," she said. 

 "((Chicago Equities News at 312 408 8787, chicago.equities.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw1r07o3l




 U.S. stocks drop on Dell view - bonds up, euro falls. 

959 words
27 January 2000
22:53
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 27 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks fell on Thursday after a bleak earnings outlook by Dell Computer Corp. sparked a sell-off in technology stocks. 

 Bonds rose in anticipation of a Treasury buyback plan, and the euro tumbled well below the $1 level, amid doubts about the economic outlook for Europe. Silver rose to one-month highs, while platinum and palladium also hit new peaks on nervousness over supply. Oil futures prices fell on news that output curbs may be eased a bit. 

 Wall Street was also bracing for Friday's release of the fourth-quarter Employment Cost Index, a key measure of wage inflation, for further clues about how much the Federal Reserve could hike borrowing costs when it meets next week. On Friday, the government also will release data on fourth-quarter U.S. Gross Domestic Product. 

 "I just think the markets are really uneasy ahead of Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan," said Peggy Farley, president and chief executive officer of Ascent/Meredith Asset Management Inc. "Dell is the No. 1 concern in terms of profit warnings. Dell is sort of a bellwether and if they are warning, so may everyone else, is the concern.' 

 The Dow Jones industrial average slipped 4.97 points, or 0.05 percent, to 11,028.02, dragged down by computer maker International Business Machines Corp., off 3-5/16 at 113-9/16. 

 The 30-stock index was also hurt by Wal-Mart Stores Inc., which dropped 2-9/16 to 59-3/8, as analysts estimated that the world's largest retailer was gaining ground in its push into Germany, but at high cost. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index was down 5.53 points, or 0.39 percent at 1,398.56. 

 The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index eased 30.35 points, or 0.75 percent, to 4,039.56, marking its second day of losses. 

 The Nasdaq's fall came after Dell, the No. 1 U.S. personal computer maker, for the second quarter in a row warned about profits and revenues, sending its shares down 2-13/16 to 37-9/16. It was the top mover on the Nasdaq. 

 There was confusion on Wall Street, however, over what to make of the Dell warning, with a number of analysts issuing reports that remained bullish on the stock. 

 "I think the Dell news was a disappointment," said Rick Meckler, senior managing director at Liberty View in Jersey City, N.J. "People once again are wondering whether the price-to-earnings ratio for technology stocks is too high for that sector." 

 Some of the downturn in the Nasdaq was countered by Conexant Systems Inc., which climbed 13-4/16 to 87-9/16 after the maker of chips used for highs-speed communications said it would join the Standard and Poor's 500 index. 

 The benchmark 30-year U.S. Treasury Bond was up 20/32, or $6.25 on each $1,000 of face value. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 6.52 percent from Wednesday's close of 6.57 percent, as the bond market awaited the release Friday of the employment cost index and data on fourth-quarter gross domestic product. 

 A consensus on Wall Street has emerged that the Fed will raise borrowing costs by 25 basis points when its rate-setting committee meets on Tuesday and Wednesday. But some are still fearful the central bank could hike rates by a more aggressive 50 basis points to stave off inflation. 

 In the broader market, declines edged out advances 15 to 14 with about 1.12 billion shares changing hands on the New York Stock Exchange. There were 41 stocks at new highs while 122 made new lows. 

 Thursday was largely the triumph of "old school" stocks over new technology ones with car makers, building materials, oil companies and gold stocks up, while computer hardware firms, Internet stocks, transportation companies and biotech issues fell. 

 But banking stocks managed to move ahead as the long bond strengthened, with the Philadelphia Stock Exchange's bank index up 1.63 percent. 

 In currency markets, the euro fell to $0.9881 from $1.0009 on Wednesday. The dollar slid to 105.15 Japanese yen from 105.69 yen. 

 On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for March delivery fell 55 cents to end at $27.29 a barrel. The price decline, traders and analysts said, followed comments from Mexico's Oil Minister Luis Tellez that indicated restrictions on oil supply might be relaxed a bit after March. 

 COMEX March silver gained 13.2 cents to end at $5.415 an ounce, after trading as high as $5.43, its highest since Dece. 30. Funds bought silver, spurring a rally driven by technical factors and the easing of recent worries about sales of China's surplus silver. February gold rose 60 cents to close at $287.10 an ounce. 

 NYMEX March palladium soared $11 to a new contract high close of $483. April platinum closed near its high at $445.60 an ounce, up $13.10. Both metals are used in catalytic converters to clean car exhausts, but palladium is the more efficient of the two metals. Buyers have been scouring the market for both precious metals after delays in shipments from Russia, which produces 65 percent of the world's palladium and about 20 percent of the world's platinum. 

 Overseas, London's FTSE 100 closed at 6,441 points, up 65.4 or 1.03 percent. In Tokyo, the Nikkei finished 98.53 points higher or up 0.52 percent at 19,209.72. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw1r07nac




 Stocks drop after Dell warning - bonds up, euro falls. 

957 words
27 January 2000
22:50
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 27 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks fell on Thursday after a bleak earnings outlook by Dell Computer Corp.  sparked a sell-off in technology stocks. 

 Bonds rose in anticipation of a Treasury buyback plan, and the euro tumbled well below the $1 level, amid doubts about the economic outlook for Europe. Silver rose to one-month highs, while platinum and palladium also hit new peaks on nervousness over supply. Oil futures prices fell on news that output curbs may be eased a bit. 

 Wall Street was also bracing for Friday's release of the fourth-quarter Employment Cost Index, a key measure of wage inflation, for further clues about how much the Federal Reserve could hike borrowing costs when it meets next week. On Friday, the government also will release data on fourth-quarter U.S. Gross Domestic Product. 

 "I just think the markets are really uneasy ahead of Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan," said Peggy Farley, president and chief executive officer of Ascent/Meredith Asset Management Inc. "Dell is the No. 1 concern in terms of profit warnings. Dell is sort of a bellwether and if they are warning, so may everyone else, is the concern.' 


The Dow Jones industrial average	  slipped 4.97 points, or 0.05 percent, to 11,028.02, dragged down by computer maker International Business Machines Corp. , off 3-5/16 at 113-9/16.



The 30-stock index was also hurt by Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , which dropped 2-9/16 to 59-3/8, as analysts estimated that the world's largest retailer was gaining ground in its push into Germany, but at high cost.



The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index	  was down 5.53 points, or 0.39 percent at 1,398.56.
The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite Index	   eased 30.35 points, or 0.75 percent, to 4,039.56, marking its second day of losses.



The Nasdaq's fall came after Dell, the No. 1 U.S. personal computer maker, for the second quarter in a row warned about profits and revenues, sending its shares down 2-13/16 to 37-9/16. It was the top mover on the Nasdaq.



There was confusion on Wall Street, however, over what to make of the Dell warning, with a number of analysts issuing reports that remained bullish on the stock.



"I think the Dell news was a disappointment," said Rick Meckler, senior managing director at Liberty View in Jersey City, N.J. "People once again are wondering whether the price-to-earnings ratio for technology stocks is too high for that sector."



Some of the downturn in the Nasdaq was countered by Conexant Systems Inc. , which climbed 13-4/16 to 87-9/16 after the maker of chips used for highs-speed communications said it would join the Standard and Poor's 500	  index.



The benchmark 30-year U.S. Treasury Bond was up 20/32, or $6.25 on each $1,000 of face value. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 6.52 percent from Wednesday's close of 6.57 percent, as the bond market awaited the release Friday of the employment cost index and data on fourth-quarter gross domestic product.



A consensus on Wall Street has emerged that the Fed will raise borrowing costs by 25 basis points when its rate-setting committee meets on Tuesday and Wednesday. But some are still fearful the central bank could hike rates by a more aggressive 50 basis points to stave off inflation.



In the broader market, declines edged out advances 15 to 14 with about 1.12 billion shares changing hands on the New York Stock Exchange. There were 41 stocks at new highs while 122 made new lows.



Thursday was largely the triumph of "old school" stocks over new technology ones with car makers, building materials, oil companies and gold stocks up, while computer hardware firms, Internet stocks, transportation companies and biotech issues fell.



But banking stocks managed to move ahead as the long bond strengthened, with the Philadelphia Stock Exchange's bank index	  up 1.63 percent.



In currency markets, the euro fell to $0.9881 from $1.0009 on Wednesday. The dollar slid to 105.15 Japanese yen from 105.69 yen.



On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for March delivery fell 55 cents to end at $27.29 a barrel. The price decline, traders and analysts said, followed comments from Mexico's Oil Minister Luis Tellez that indicated restrictions on oil supply might be relaxed a bit after March.



COMEX March silver gained 13.2 cents to end at $5.415 an ounce, after trading as high as $5.43, its highest since Dece. 30. Funds bought silver, spurring a rally driven by technical factors and the easing of recent worries about sales of China's surplus silver. February gold rose 60 cents to close at $287.10 an ounce.



NYMEX March palladium soared $11 to a new contract high close of $483. April platinum closed near its high at $445.60 an ounce, up $13.10. Both metals are used in catalytic converters to clean car exhausts, but palladium is the more efficient of the two metals. Buyers have been scouring the market for both precious metals after delays in shipments from Russia, which produces 65 percent of the world's palladium and about 20 percent of the world's platinum.



Overseas, London's FTSE 100	   closed at 6,441 points, up 65.4 or 1.03 percent. In Tokyo, the Nikkei	   finished 98.53 points higher or up 0.52 percent at 19,209.72.



(C) Reuters Limited 2000.


Document lba0000020010821dw1r07n9s




 U.S. stocks weaken in late trading on Dell warning. 

 By Eric Wahlgren 
607 words
27 January 2000
20:26
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 27 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks sank in late trading on Thursday, pulled down by technology issues as a profit warning from the world's No. 2 personal computer maker, Dell Computer Corp., weighed on the sector. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average was down 71.05 points, or 0.64 percent, at 10,961.94, reversing gains from earlier in the session. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index was down 18.28 points, or 1.3 percent at 1385.81. 

 The technology-laced Nasdaq composite index was off 66.73 points, or 1.64 percent, at 4003.18. 

 The Dow was dragged down by stocks such as International Business Machines Corp., off 4-7/16 at 112-7/12. The 30-stock index lost steam after some of the support that had been provided by its technology components weakened. 

 "I think the Dell news was a disappointment," said Rick Meckler, senior managing director at Liberty View in Jersey City, N.J. "People once again are wondering whether the price-to-earnings ratio for technology stocks is too high for that sector." 

 Dell for the second quarter in a row warned about profits and revenues, sending its shares down 2-1/4 to 38-1/8. It was the top mover on the Nasdaq stock market. 

 There was confusion on Wall Street, however, over what to make of the Dell warning, with a number of analysts issuing morning reports that remained bullish on the stock. 

 Some of the downturn was being countered by Conexant Systems Inc., which climbed 12-10/16 to 86-15/16 after the maker of chips used for high-speed communications said it would join the Standard and Poor's 500 index. 

 Hewlett-Packard Co., which had risen significantly after saying its first-quarter and full-year earnings and revenue growth were on track, was up only 1/4 at 109. 

 Some analysts said anxiety ahead of the Federal Reserve's interest-rate setting committee meeting next week was also troubling the market. 

 A consensus on Wall Street has emerged that Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan will raise borrowing costs by a quarter percentage point when the Fed meets on Tuesday and Wednesday. But some are still fearful the central bank could hike rates by a more aggressive half point to stave off inflation. 

 "I just think the markets are really uneasy ahead of Greenspan," said Peggy Farley, president and chief executive of Ascent/Meredith Asset Management Inc. "Dell is the number one concern in terms of profit warnings. Dell is sort of a bellwether and, if they are warning, so may everyone else, is the concern.' 

 The benchmark 30-year U.S. Treasury Bond was up 20/32, with the yield falling to 6.52 percent from Wednesday's close of 6.57 percent. 

 Banking stocks moved ahead as the bond strengthened, with the Philadelphia Stock Exchange's bank index up 0.89 percent. 

 Breadth on the New York Stock Exchange was negative, with decliners beating advances 15 to 13 as 965 million shares changing hands. There were 39 stocks hitting new highs and 108 hitting new lows. 

 Among stocks in the news, Lockheed Martin Corp. slipped 1-1/16 to 19 after the aerospace and defence company said it would cut 2,800 jobs. 

 General Motors Corp., the world's No. 1 automaker and a Dow component, advanced 4-14/16 to 83-7/16 after Goldman Sachs raised its rating on the stock. 

 ((Wall Street Desk, + 212.859.1730)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw1r07lrg


 Business 
 MONEYLINE; CNNfn 

 Willow Bay, Rhonda Schaffler, Bill Dorman, Greg Clarkin, Bruce Francis, Allan Dodds Frank, John Defterios 
8,340 words
27 January 2000
23:30
CNNfn: Moneyline News Hour
MNYL
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 WILLOW BAY, CNNfn ANCHOR, MONEYLINE: Tonight, follow the bouncing ball on Wall Street -- the blue chips and the high-techs get whipped around, with the Nasdaq now down for the new year as January draws to a close. 

 The so-called adventure capitalist, out to conquer a new frontier -- make that the final frontier. We`ll talk with Sir Richard Branson about exploring outer space and cyber space. 

 And rival Republicans say his tax plan is toothless, but what about investors? Inside John McCain`s economic platform, as our special "MONEYLINE 2000" series continues. 

 ANNOUNCER: This is the MONEYLINE NEWS HOUR. Reporting tonight from New York, Willow Bay. 

 BAY: Good evening. Stuart is on vacation this week. 

 Today, the blue chips closed off just a few points, but that hardly gives a sense of the day`s turbulence, for both the Dow and the Nasdaq. In fact, the Nasdaq, the high flyer of 1999, is now trading lower for the year 2000, after more than 30 points were knocked off the index. But it could have been worse. The Nasdaq was down nearly 100 points at its low today, while the Dow traded in a near 250-point range. Rhonda Schaffler reports. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 RHONDA SCHAFFLER, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Market volatility brought another bout of motion sickness to Wall Street. Blue chip stocks soared then slipped as the Big Board rode a 100-point wave. General Motors (URL: http://www.gm.com) was one of the lucky ones. An upbeat outlook from Goldman Sachs gave the auto maker a push. But by the closing bell, the index went into reverse, giving up nearly five points to close at 11,028. 

 Yesterday`s profit warning from Dell (URL: http://www.dell.com/) sparked a short- circuit in technology stocks. The Nasdaq composite ended more than 30 points lower on the day, closing at 4,039. 

 At least one analyst says the tech sector is to blame for the recent turbulence in the market. 

 PHIL ROTH, MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER: The market is going to be muddled for quite some time. Until we really correct this huge gap between technology and the rest of the market, I don`t think the market is  going to get out of its own waves. 

 SCHAFFLER: Some portfolio managers suggest taking a cue from Darwin and letting natural market selection sort out the herd. 

 JOHN HUGHES, SHIELDS & COMPANY: The stocks that haven`t been working here, the stocks that have struggling a little bit, probably should be pared back, reduced, if not sold outright. 

 SCHAFFLER: But for traders who live and die by daily market moves, swinging stocks are a reminder that there is no shortage of fickle investors. 

 BRIAN FINNERTY, C.E. UNTERBERG, TOWBIN: It`s almost like we have short memories. We get all pumped up, and the earnings are great, so let`s buy them. And then they start talking about the employment cost index, and they say, oh, wait a minute, we forget about it -- it really ebbs back and forth. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 SCHAFFLER: Traders tomorrow will focus on that cost employment cost index, which the Labor Department was supposed to have released today, but didn`t because of snow in Washington. The expectation is the ECI will be higher. The apprehension is that it might be much higher and give the Fed a reason to boost rates as much as half point next week -- Willow. 

 BAY: Rhonda, is that likely? I mean, how important is that ECI number? 

 SCHAFFLER: You know, it is a very important number, because the Fed is keeping a close watch on labor costs. Right now, the expectation is for a 9/10 percent increase, so anything above that might make the market pretty jittery. 

 BAY: Rhonda Schaffler, at the exchange, thank you. 

 After the bell today, profit reports from two brand name companies that had a rough 1999. Starbucks (URL: http://www.starbucks.com/) , slammed last year for announcing an expensive Net strategy, met expectations for the final quarter of `99, after revising them upward earlier this week. While Starbucks posted double-digit growth in profit and revenue, Gillette wasn`t so lucky. The struggling consumer products giant met lowered expectations, while profits and income fell. In late trading tonight, both Starbucks and Gillette (URL: http://www.gillette.com/) are up fractionally. 

 BAY: In the Chicago trading pits today, it was a banner session for the long bond. The 30-year issue soared 23/32 of a point, with the yield at its lowest level of the year, on anticipation that the Treasury will buy back long bonds as part of a repurchase plan. In Washington, a different kind of anticipation, as President Clinton prepares for what`s likely to be his valedictory State of the Union address. Less than 2 1/2 hours from now, Mr. Clinton will deliver his speech before a joint session of Congress, laying out an economic blueprint for his last year in office. 

 Bill Dorman looks at what investors should listen for in what some suspect could be a marathon performance. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 BILL DORMAN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): A year ago, the focus of the  audience was presidential impeachment. This year, expect to hear a lot about the strong economy and the chance to build on the current prosperity. 

 JOHN PODESTA, WHITE HOUSE CHIEF OF STAFF: He`s going to challenge America to take a long look ahead, to really think about the big challenges ahead for this country in the future. 

 DORMAN: According to White House aides, that means health care and education. Among the major initiatives: a prescription drug benefit for Medicare patients, another attempt at a patients` bill of rights, including the ability to sue health maintenance organizations, tax credits and targeted tax cuts that help pay for education, and to encourage retirement savings. 

 The budget surplus will be a topic, as investors hope to hear more details about the president`s plan to pay down the national debt. 

 LES ALPERSTEIN, HSBC WASHINGTON ANALYSIS: On a macro basis, that`s the key issue for Wall Street. And on a sector basis, it`s the health care issues, both the patients` rights and the drug benefit for Medicare. 

 DORMAN: From Congress, there`s likely to be skepticism about President Clinton`s plans, especially when it comes to fiscal discipline. 

 SEN. PETE DOMENICI (R-NM), BUDGET COMM. CHAIRMAN: You will hear him, briskly in some cases and in some depth in others, enumerate at least 22 new programs on the spending side. 

 DORMAN: Domenici says the price tag for all those programs will be $170 billion. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 DORMAN: President Clinton hopes his spending programs will prove popular Congress with the public that Congress will be forced to pass them. After all, this is an election year and the arguments about government spending and tax breaks are just beginning -- Willow. 

 BAY: Bill, you just mentioned skepticism, the likely reaction from Congress. What is the Republican rebuttal likely to include? 

 DORMAN: Well, I think tonight, we`re going to get a preview of the partisan season coming up, in terms of elections. You will see President Clinton lay out very clearly some differences between the Democrats and the Republican, not just the administration, but in terms of the campaign as well. And I think on the GOP side you`re going to hear a lot of that tone in the response as well. 

 So it`s going to be very much a preview of the coming attractions, in terms of the election season -- Willow. 

 BAY: Bill Dorman, in Washington, thank you. 

 CNN`s coverage of the State of the Union Address and the Republican response begins at 8:00 p.m. Eastern on "THE WORLD TODAY." 

 Now some of the day`s other top stories outside the business world in our MONEYLINE news digest. A sign of a thaw in the chilly relations between Washington and Beijing. Defense Secretary William Cohen says China has invited him to visit later this year. Cohen called off a trip to Beijing last June, after the U.S. mistakenly bombed China`s embassy in Belgrade. 

 Relatives of Elian Gonzalez, competing on Capitol Hill. A day after seeing their grandson, his grandmothers fought a bill to grant him U.S. citizenship, even as the boy`s Miami relatives argued for the legislation. 

 And a fierce winter storm stranding travelers across the South. Heavy snow forced Oklahoma government offices to close and tied up flights in Texas. In the storm`s path: Atlanta, host of this weekend`s Super Bowl. 

 Time now for a quick look at some of the other stories MONEYLINE`s reporters are working on for tonight, starting with Greg Clarkin -- Greg. 

 GREG CLARKIN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: Well, Willow, if you thought there was a Starbucks on every corner now, well, you haven`t seen anything yet. I`ll tell you about the coffee company`s ambitious expansion plans and its earnings report. 

 BRUCE FRANCIS, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: I`m Bruce Francis. Healtheon gets a big vote of confidence from a major mutual fund company. I`ll tell you what`s behind the investing fever for this Internet health company. 

 ALLAN DODDS FRANK, CNN CORRESPONDENT: And I`m Allan Dodds Frank. The proposed merger of BP Amoco and Arco will give the new company dominance in Alaska, the biggest single source in American oil. I`ll tell you why that concerns the government`s antitrust experts -- Willow. 

 BAY: Thanks, Allan. 

 Still to come on MONEYLINE: the little alpine town where they`re shaping tomorrow`s global economy. We`ll take you to the world economic forum at Davos, after the break. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Every year at about this time, a small corner of the Swiss Alps becomes ground zero for economic power brokers, better known in the business world as Davos. The World Economic Forum has been sponsoring a business summit in Davos for 30 years, where captains of industry, top policy makers, Nobel prize winners, and world leaders hash out broad trends shaping the global economy. This year, the program is entitled "New Beginnings: Making A Difference," but the buzz is all about new technology. 

 John Defterios is live in Davos with a roundup of today`s kickoff events --John. 

 JOHN DEFTERIOS, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: Willow, it`s fair to say the executives are closing the books on their opening session today. This is the first time in recent memory that the agenda has split up on two different tracks almost immediately, one in the global economy, that you talked about, the other one on the e-conomy or e-commerce. First, the overall picture. The global economy getting a clean bill of health from a very bullish panel this morning, including Abby Cohen. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 ABBY JOSEPH COHEN, GOLDMAN SACHS: Our valuation work until very recently indicated that the S&P 500 was undervalued. It was the basis of our rational exuberance in the U.S. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 DEFTERIOS: The exuberance shared here, of course. Ninety-one percent of the CEO`s surveyed are thinking about the next three years in the global economy. E-commerce is definitely helping out. Three out of four doing business transactions on the Web now. But half feel the Internet explosion is widening the gap between the rich and poor nations. 

 In addition to the 1,000 business leaders and 300 governmental leaders, the folks here in Davos invited 50 high-tech CEOs who are considered to be the pace setters for the next decade. Today, they tackled the 10 most important Web sites around the world, included in that list, China Online, which is lowering the trade barriers and the barriers in media. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 LYRIC HUGHES, CEO, CHINA ONLINE: This is truly revolutionary in terms of the media to have a single person or a small group of people. In the case of our Web site, we were the only news coming out of China that depended on Chinese language sources. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 DEFTERIOS: There is some concern here this year that governments or the World Trade Organization are going to try to regulate the Internet. But as one venture capitalist candidly told me today in the plenary hall, that governments are about 15 years too late in that  effort. And it`s fair to say trade officials have other things on their agenda after the unraveling of the WTO talks in Seattle. 

 Coming up at the top of the hour I am going to take a closer look at a trade agenda here in Davos and perhaps jump starting the global trade talks -- Willow. 

 BAY: John, besides economic issues, I noticed that there were health and wellness issues on the agenda. Are these hot topics there? 

 DEFTERIOS: Nearly as hot as e-commerce, I think it`s fair to say. There`s been an explosion, in fact, over the last three years in terms of things dealing with health. One executive said, I want to know about e-commerce, but I also want to know how to take care of my soul these days. In fact, I was walking past one of the halls today and I thought they were singing "Happy Birthday." But in fact, they were singing, trying to relieve stress. This is one of the stress relief exercises taking place this year. 

 BAY: John Defterios, thanks. We will, as you mentioned, be joining you in the next half hour. 

 For more on the view from Davos as the meetings continue, log onto cnnfn.com, which is featuring a special report on the summit, with links to all the important related sites. 

 Turning now to the Euro, which today slumped to a record low against the dollar. It closed in New York below parity to the greenback for the first time. Weighing on the Euro: prospects for ongoing strength in the U.S. economy and the failure of European central bankers to prop up their currency. 

 Coming up, our special series continues, "MONEYLINE 2000: The Candidates," with John McCain, the tough talking senator who is winning over fiscal conservatives and alienating tax cut fanatics within his own party. His plan and his top economic adviser next. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: With four days to go before the New Hampshire primary, we continue our special series "MONEYLINE 2000: The Candidates," a look at their economic platforms and their plans for your money, with the help of top economic analysts. 

 Tuesday`s first-in-the-nation primary will be the first real test for Senator John McCain, who bypassed Iowa to concentrate on New Hampshire, where he holds a narrow lead over George W. Bush, according to the polls, even as the governor attacks him as too timid on an issue near and dear to GOP hearts: tax cuts. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY (voice-over): John McCain`s never been at a loss for fighting words. SEN. JOHN MCCAIN (R-AZ), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We can make American political history. We can surprise them all. The inside the Beltway gas bags that said we didn`t have a chance. 

 BAY: The senator from Arizona may make history, but he may not make many friends in the process, at least within his own party. 

 MCCAIN: We have a significant surplus and we don`t want to spend it all in tax cuts. 

 BAY: McCain inspired the wrath of his tax-slashing rivals by proposing just $237 billion in cuts over five years. McCain would expand the lowest income tax bracket, but leave the rest of the code intact. He would abolish taxes on the states worth less than $5 million and reduce the so-called marriage penalty, helping upper and middle-class taxpayers. 

 But on the trail, McCain sounds more Clinton than Reagan, putting his top GOP competitor on the attack. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP, BUSH CAMPAIGN AD) 

 GOV. GEORGE W. BUSH (R-TX), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: Washington politicians  want to keep your money in Washington. Not me. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 GREG VALLIERE, SCHWAB WASH. RESEARCH GROUP: Many Republicans resent McCain, because when he talks about taxes, he sounds like a Democrat. He talks about how all of the cuts really should go to the middle and lower classes and that the wealthy shouldn`t get any. Many Republicans feel he is helping the enemy with those quotes. I think if he is elected president, his tax cuts would be quite modest and the bond market would be pleased to see that he wouldn`t want to stimulate the economy excessively. 

 BAY: The high-tech business would be pleased as well. McCain backs a permanent ban on Internet taxation. 

 THOMAS GALLAGHER, LSI GROUP: This is maybe a way of trying to reassure Republican primary voters that he really is a tax cutter and so he is focusing on this issue and perhaps taking advantage of Governor Bush`s reluctance to endorse a permanent moratorium. 

 BAY: But McCain`s primary focus is fiscal discipline. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP, MCCAIN CAMPAIGN ADVERTISEMENT) 

 MCCAIN: I`ll use the bulk of the surplus to secure Social Security far into the future. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 BAY: The candidate, like George W. Bush, says he wouldn`t touch any of the growing Social Security surplus. McCain would use a majority of the non-Social Security surplus to bolster the retirement system. Less than a quarter would go to tax cuts, 10 percent would go to Medicare, the rest to pay down the national debt. 

 JOE LIEBER, WASHINGTON ANALYSIS: All in all, with McCain, you get more debt reduction out of his economic proposals than you would with any of the other candidates, more money going to pay down debt. The bond market is going to like that. I think the equity markets would also like that as well. So I think it`s actually pro-Wall Street, pro-big business, if you will. 

 BAY: Investors may like McCain`s plan, and so, presumably, would Alan Greenspan, another Republican who opposes big tax cuts now. McCain has made his reverence for the Fed chairman abundantly clear. 

 MCCAIN: If Mr. Greenspan should happen to die, God forbid, I would do like we did in the movie "Weekend at Bernie`s" -- I`d prop him up, and put a pair of dark glasses and keep him as long as we could. 

 BAY: McCain has a Fed veteran petting up his economic brain trust: Kevin Hassett, the coauthor of the bull market bible of 1999: "Dow 36,000." A possible pick for Treasury secretary is McCain`s finance chairman, former Merrill Lynch president Herb Allison. 

 McCain and his advisers have engaged in policy combat with the Bush campaign over an array of issues. 

 MCCAIN: Governor Bush, can I finish my answer? 

 BUSH: Yes. 

 BAY: But trade is not one of them. McCain, like Bush, is a free-trader, supporting China`s entry into the World Trade Organization and NAFTA`s expansion throughout the Western hemisphere. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: McCain may be neck in neck in New Hampshire polls, but he`s well behind in the money race, raising about 15.5 million, a quarter of Bush `s total. McCain, a huge supporter of campaign finance reform, was criticized earlier this month, after revelations that he wrote letters to the FCC on behalf of a corporate contributor, Paxon Communications. His top supporters in the current race include some who work for Viacom, U.S. West, Goldman Sachs, BellSouth (URL:http://www.bellsouthcorp.com/) and Microsoft (URL: http://www.microsoft.com/) . 

 At last night`s GOP debate, Senator McCain sarcastically congratulated George W. Bush for his "new dedication" to paying down the debt, now that Congress is projecting a far bigger surplus than previously predicted. McCain has been pressing the debt-reduction issue throughout his campaign. 

 Joining us now from Washington to talk about McCain`s economic blueprint, a top adviser who helped draft it: Kevin Hassett, former Fed economist and co-author of "Dow 36,000." 

 Kevin, welcome. KEVIN HASSETT, MCCAIN ECONOMIC ADVISER: Thanks, Willow. It`s great to be here. 

 BAY: The senator grew up as a supply-sider and then he revised his thinking -- why? 

 HASSETT: Well, I think that the senator`s plan is a supply side plan, but it`s more of a step-by-step approach to fundamental tax reform than we`ve seen in the past. You know, we`re further away now than we`ve been from something like a flat, consumption-based tax, and the senator challenged us to come up with a plan that could deliver that to the country, but in a prudent way that respects the wishes of Alan Greenspan, and I that`s what we`ve done, we`ve got a movement toward a flat tax from the middle up as part of our plan, and I think that should appeal to supply-siders, because it`s a plan that can actually work. 

 BAY: Now is it fair to characterize the senator as the most aggressive of the candidates on paying down the debt? 

 HASSETT: Absolutely. You know, the senator said at the very beginning of our talks with him about economic policy that his top priority is make sure that we can save Social Security. And you know, there`s a lot more money going out than coming in after a while in Social Security, and we`re going to either have to cut benefits, raise payroll taxes or take money from the on-budget side, the non-Social Security side, in order to make sure that the system is solvent. Now Senator McCain has  pledged to do that. We`ve taken 62 percent of the on-budget surplus and dedicated it to saving Social Security. Governor Bush has not. And that`s why Governor Bush`s tax cut is larger, at least up front. 

 BAY: Well, we were joined by a member of the Bush team last night, who says, with these revised surplus estimates, they are, in fact, going to do both. Would you consider revising your tax cut proposal, given the increased surplus? 

 HASSETT: We`ll absolutely. In fact, you know, we knew that this big chunk of money was coming in when we wrote the tax plan, and there`s a lot of language in our tax plan, suggesting what we`re going to do. We`re going to continue to pay down the debt. We`re going to use the majority of this new surplus to pay down the debt and to pay Social Security, and then we`re going to use a little bit that`s left over to expand our tax cut. So our tax cut will likely be larger now, because we`ve got more money to work with. 

 You know, the key is that we`ve got a big surplus coming in, and we need to use that as an opportunity to save Social Security. Governor Bush still thinks that the money should be used as a tax cut, and Senator McCain disagrees. 

 BAY: Real quickly, let me ask you about a specific of the plan. Senator McCain advocates allowing taxpayers to invest some of their Social Security money in the stock market. As bullish as you are, don`t you think that`s risky? 

 HASSETT: Well, I think he`s suggesting that people can put the money in private accounts, so each person can decide for him or herself what they should do with the money. But certainly, I think it`s more risky for people not to be in the stock market. You know, in 1982, the Dow was at 777, and today, it`s still above 11000. And if every American owned stocks in 1982, the world would be a better place today. And so I think increasing... 

 BAY: Spoken like the author of "The Dow 36,000." 

 Kevin Hassett, thanks for joining us. 

 HASSETT: Thanks, Willow. 

 BAY: Tomorrow night, we`ll continue our special coverage of the candidates and the economic issues with a MONEYLINE interview with Vice President Al Gore. His agenda for keeping the current economic boom alive, and we`ll take a look at his rival`s platform, Bill Bradley`s vision for getting more Americans on what he calls the prosperity train. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 BILL BRADLEY (D), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I`d like to be the good steward  of a good economy, and by that, I mean, an economy that takes everybody to higher economic ground. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 BAY: An interview with Vice President Al Gore and Bill Bradley`s economic platform, tomorrow as "MONEYLINE 2000: The Candidates" continues. 

 And "MONEYLINE" will be right back. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: In our next half hour, a chaotic session that drove the Nasdaq under. The index that reigned supreme in `99 is now down in 2000. We`ll look at what`s rattling tech stocks. One Nasdaq stock that lost its buzz in 1999, Starbucks. Is it poised for a market comeback? We`ll look at its latest profit report. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Good evening. Stuart is on vacation. 

 In tonight`s headlines, from rally to retreat, in a matter of hours stocks fall victim to volatility. The diplomats of the world economy on parade in Davos. We`ll go live to the World Economic Forum`s annual conference. He`s brash, he`s a billionaire, and now you can call him sir. Tonight, Richard Branson will be here to talk about his next adventure. 

 But first, our top story: the dizzying day on Wall Street. In another volatile session, stocks were whipsawed by worries over earnings and interest rates. The Nasdaq traded in a 166-point range, finishing down 30, at 4,039, volume, 1.7 billion shares. The sell-off was enough to put last year`s best-performing index into negative territory for 2,000. This would be the Nasdaq`s first losing January since 1990 if the selling continues for the next two trading days. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 PHIL ROTH, MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER: Technology stocks have been weak, investors are taking profits, but clearly portfolio managers are afraid of cash more than they`re afraid of technology stocks, so the money has come back into other areas. We saw a big rally in financial stocks. So there`s a rotation going on here, but this correction in technology is really just beginning. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 BAY: Financial stocks like American Express helped pare the Dow`s losses. The blue-chip index slipped nearly 5 points to close at 11,028. Volume on the big board, more than 1 billion shares. Losers beat winners by a narrow margin, and as you might expect, more stocks fell to 52-week lows, 44 hit new highs, 120 sank to new lows. Banks and techs were among today`s big movers. And as I mentioned, American Express up nearly 3 1/2. Chase Manhattan (URL: http://www.chase.com/) gained 2 1/4. Losers include IBM (URL: http://www.ibm.com/) , Dell and Qualcomm (URL: http://www.qualcomm.com/) . 

 Long-term interest rates fell to their lowest levels this year as bond prices rallied. A welcome bounce for the bond market still reeling from one of its worst years ever. Traders are snapping up long bonds ahead of the government`s debt buyback. They are worried about a dwindling supply of those treasuries. The yield on the 30- year issue fell to 6.51 percent. The price rose almost 3/4 of a point. 

 A jolt for Starbucks after the market closed. The company`s quarterly profits met forecasts it raised just two days ago. And as Greg Clarkin reports, Starbucks also set some lofty goals for the new millennium. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 CLARKIN (voice-over): The company that gave a lift to latte delivers on an earnings promise and makes a brash prediction. As promised, Starbucks posts earnings 2 cents better than expectations, then promptly says it wants to eventually have 20,000 locations worldwide --quite a jump from its present store count of 2,700. But Starbucks has been building momentum, boosted by a big jump in sales late last year. 

 PATRICK SCHUMANN, EDWARD JONES: The earnings report shows that Starbucks remains on very positive track. Comparable sales are driving the growth here. Twenty percent year-over-year earnings-per- share growth, very strong. We are looking for much the same throughout the next couple of  quarters. 

 CLARKIN: Starbucks profits were 4 cents better than the year-ago period. The company rang up $527 million in sales last quarter and sales at stores open a year or more were up 7 percent. But Starbucks shares have yet to recover from an early summer plunge. 

 The drop came on word of aggressive spending to build its Internet business. Management has since backed off of those Web plans and investors are beginning to return. And Wall Street believes Starbucks has potential not only on the Web, but also through supermarkets and anywhere else coffee is sold. 

 SCOTT WALTMANN, MERRILL LYNCH: If you think about it, they only have roughly a 5 percent share in the total amount of coffee that`s consumed in America -- that`s both whether it be through the supermarket channel or through retail. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 CLARKIN: Now, one troublesome sign in the earnings report: it`s costing more for Starbucks to operate its stores. And on its conference call, Starbucks management stressed the company is focused on its core business of selling coffee and added that it has no plans to raise prices this year -- Willow. 

 BAY: Back to basics, back to coffee. Greg Clarkin, thank you. 

 The bottom line not as bright for another big name brand. Gillette`s operating profits fell 20 percent on sales of $576 million. The company`s earnings per share were in line with lowered expectations. But Gillette is hoping for a better 2000, saying it is comfortable with earnings forecasts and sees sales growth in the high single digits. Strong profit news helped light a fire under one sector today. Chip stocks got a major boost from a company called SanDisk (URL: http://www.sandisk.com/) . Robertson Stephens upgraded the memory chip maker to a strong buy. Late yesterday, SanDisk beat fourth quarter profit estimates and also announced a two-for-one stock split. Today, its shares skyrocketed 43 5/8. Communications chip maker Virata(URL: http://www.vrta.com/)  up more than 11 after it reported a smaller than expected loss. Conexant Systems (URL: http://www.conexant.com/) up 13 1/4. Rambus (URL: http://www.rambus.com/) gained more than 2 3/4. And chip equipment maker Applied Materials (URL: http://www.appliedmaterials.com/) up nearly 1 1/4 after losing more than 10 yesterday. 

 Up next, we`ll take you to Davos, where the movers and shakers of the financial world are meeting. That`s next, when MONEYLINE returns. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: A record day in the currency market, as the euro fell to all-time lows against the dollar. The euro was undercut by the failure of European central bankers to intervene in the market, and weighed down by signs that the U.S. economy would keep growing faster than Europe`s. For the first time ever, the euro closed below one-to- one versus the dollar. It`s down more than 16 percent since the single European currency was launched one year ago. 

 In tonight`s MONEYLINE "Focus": Davos 2000, the 30th annual meeting of the World Economic Forum. About 2,000 business leaders, politicians and academics have descended on the ski resort of Davos, Switzerland. Up for discussion: technology, e-commerce, and trade. John Defterios is standing by outside the conference center, trying to stay warm, and he joins us now -- John. 

 DEFTERIOS: It`s not easy, Willow, tonight, that`s for sure. 

 There is no doubt that everyone is buzzing about e-commerce this year, but they`re a lot less optimistic about starting a new global trade agreement. Many thought that the venue here in Davos would be the perfect place to get everyone to come around the table and at least address  the issues that were separating the developed nations from the developing nations. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 MIKE MOORE, DIR., WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION: A lot of people say developing countries don`t want change, they do, all -- most of the countries wanting  to join us. All of the developing countries and economies in transition, they have the most to gain out of reforms in agriculture, textiles, or whatever. So there`s a lot to be done. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 DEFTERIOS: And there`s a lot of mending to do here in Davos, coming only eight weeks after the protests that we saw in Seattle. Developing nations are looking to get all of the benefits of trade without any strings attached, but there are 15 environmental and labor groups here in Davos this year trying to at least to get standards included in the debate. So far, protesters have been nearly absent here in Davos. I counted three today, three only. Inside the meeting halls, there are many who are starting to agree with the European Union and Asian nations that the U.S. is starting to make this a one-sided debate. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 CHAD HOLLIDAY, CEO, DUPONT: I lived in Asia for six years and so I saw the U.S. government negotiating with Japan and other countries for a long period of time. I think the U.S. government needs to stand up for our right to export. I think it`s very important, but we need to be listening at the same time. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 DEFTERIOS: President Clinton is expected to address globalization and trade and the benefits from those issues when he swoops in on Saturday for only three hours here in Davos, but don`t expect a softer tone with U.S. elections in the autumn and a record trade deficit again last month --Willow. 

 BAY: John, even for a few hour visit, I would expect the security preparations are fairly intense? 

 DEFTERIOS: Well, that is for sure. I`ve been coming to Davos off and on for the last 10 years, and security is always pretty intense, but it has gone clearly off the charts this year. We understand that earlier in the week, as a test run, they a full army, or a cavalcade, of Sikorsky helicopters swooping through the valley on a test run. So it should be interesting on Saturday afternoon when the president decides to come in -- Willow. 

 BAY: Indeed. John Defterios, from Davos, thank you. 

 Coming up: a cash infusion for online health care, why mutual fund giant Janis made a $1 billion bet on Healtheon/WebMD (URL: http://www.healtheon.com/) . Plus, a CEO who loves a good challenge. We`re talking, of course, about Richard Branson, the adventure capitalist. He joins us with his latest plan. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: The Federal Trade Commission may vote as early as next Monday whether to block the planned merger of BP Amoco (URL: http://www.bpamoco.com/) and Atlantic Richfield (URL: http://www.arco.com/) . The $26 billion marriage of oil giants is raising some eyebrows in Alaska and posing some critical concerns in the lower 48 states as well. 

 Allan Dodds Frank reports. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 FRANK (voice-over): The drivers who clog California freeways rely on oil from Alaska`s North Slope. And the state of Alaska is dependent on oil workers and oil tax revenue. So what would the consequences be if the federal government allowed one company, a merged BP Amoco and Arco, to dominate Alaska oil? 

 Some critics contend the deal amounts to a takeover of Alaska. Together, the two companies control 70 percent of Alaska`s oil production. Even under a current divestiture proposal, the new company would still control a majority share of the 1.1 million barrels produced daily. 

 WILLIAM MACLEOD, ANTITRUST CONSULTANT: We have competition in the leasing of the acres, in the exploration and development of that land that that oil lies underneath. We have competition right now that helps operations. We have competition to get the oil through the pipeline and onto the tankers, down to the lower 48. That`s the competition that`s threatened by this merger. 

 FRANK: Alaska Governor Tony Knowles has fashioned a compromise that would require the companies to sell a $4 billion portion of their production as well as shares in the Alaska pipeline and tanker fleet. Knowles says the deal would bring in new competitors. 

 GOV. TONY KNOWLES (R), ALASKA: Every one of America`s top 10 -- and I look at international companies -- at least three of the leading international companies have expressed a keen interest and have been in contact with the state. It is an interest at a level has not seen since Prudhoe Bay was discovered. 

 FRANK: But Walter Hickel disagrees. He is one of three former Alaska governors who wonder if other companies would actually step in under Knowles` plan. 

 FMR. GOV. WALTER HICKEL (R&I), ALASKA: Would another company come in and 

 build if it didn`t have access to the infrastructure up in Prudhoe Bay? When Arco and BP were there, they had access to that. Could you get someone else interested to buy a lease somewhere up there without the access? 

 FRANK: Supporters of the merger argue it could actually preserve competition in the wake of global consolidation. 

 SEN. TED STEVENS (R), ALASKA: I would prefer to see them all of them very vibrantly in competition, but I believe that the only way to maintain competition with Exxon-Mobil is to have BP Arco be permitted to merge. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 FRANK: The Federal Trade Commission was supposed to vote tomorrow about whether to file suit to block the merger. But that vote has been put off at least until Monday to allow the companies to continue trying to negotiate a modified merger that would pass antitrust muster --Willow. 

 BAY: Allan, in terms of the key issues, though, how complex is it? 

 FRANK: This is very complex, because there`s an even national security argument. Some people say that even a company owned in Great Britain would be an issue. Others say, if production has increased on the North Slope, it`s a threat to national security because there`s not enough oil produced domestically. 

 BAY: A lot of negotiating to do. 

 Allan Dodds Frank, thank you. 

 A major restructuring under way at Lockheed Martin. The defense giant said it will lay off 2,800, or 2 percent, of its workforce. Lockheed hopes to save $200 million a year as it streamlines its troubled aeronautical and space divisions. Last fall, the company slashed its year 2000 profit estimates. And tomorrow, it`s expected to report fourth quarter results. Shares of Lockheed Martin down more than one-half today. 

 A top Wall Street investment banker today pleading innocent to insider trading charges. James McDermott, the former CEO of Keith, Bruyette & Woods, is named in a 14-count federal indictment, charging him with conspiracy and fraud. Also named are McDermott`s girlfriend Katherine Ganon (ph), a former adult film star, and New Jersey businessman Anthony Pumponio (ph). Prosecutors allege they took part in a two-year insider trading scheme. Pumponio pleaded innocent today. Ganon, a Canadian citizen, is in Canada and did not appear in court. 

 A Web stock that never lived up to its blockbuster IPO is looking for new leadership. The Globe.com today said its co-chief executives, Todd Krizelman and Stephan Paternot will step aside, and the search is on for a replacement to take the Web site to what it called "the next level." The stock today closed at 9, down 77 percent from its 52-week high. theglobe.com (URL: http://www.theglobe.com) had the second most successful  debut in history, jumping 605 percent on its first day. 

 Mutual fund giant Janus <http://www.janus.com/>  Capital is making a big bet on the future of online medicine, investing almost a billion for 15 million shares in Healtheon WebMD. That comes out to $62 a share, and will give Janus a 10 percent stake in the company. In trading today, Healtheon  WebMD rose 4 3/4 to 71 1/16. 

 Bruce Francis has more. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 FRANCIS (voice-over): A cash injection from mutual fund company Janus improves the prognosis for Healtheon`s balance sheet and fuels the stock`s fevered pace. Healtheon-WebMD aims to connect doctors, hospitals and patients via in the Internet, selling software and services to the health care industry and offering free content and community to consumers. 

 JEFFREY PETERS, DAIN RAUSCHER WESSELS: The opportunity in the e- health space is tremendous. And really, over the last few weeks, Healtheon-WebMD has made a number of moves, both alliances and acquisitions, that  we think better positions them to execute on their strategy and really capitalize on the tremendous opportunity in health care. 

 FRANCIS: Those deals include a strategic partnership with health maintenance organization Humana  (URL: http://www.Humana.com/home.html/) , forming an e-pharmacy with drugstore chain CVS  (URL: http://www.cvs.com/) and acquiring medical information network Envoy from Quintiles, a $2.5 billion cash and stock deal that buys Healtheon- WebMD a potentially huge customer base. The $930 million from Janus will help pay for that deal. The steady stream of news has caused Healtheon to skyrocket 88 percent so far this year, while the rest of the Nasdaq is actually down 3.5 percent. 

 ANTHONY VENDETTI, GRUNTAL & CO.: We believe the stock has more room to grow. We actually upped our price targets to $80 in the short term. That`s a six-month target, and a 12 to 18-month target of $100. So we still believe there`s more room to go. 

 FRANCIS: But the money-losing Healtheon has a big challenge: selling the health-care industry, with its maze of incompatible, unconnected information systems, on the virtues of the Internet. 

 UNIDENTIFIED MALE: They need to get out in front of physicians, hospitals, and payers, convince them of the value proposition, convince them to invest in the technology in order to use the Internet. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 FRANCIS: Janus is just the latest high-profile investor in Healtheon-WebMD. Other investors include News Corp (URL: http://www.newscorp.com/) , Microsoft (URL: http://www.microsoft.com/) , drug company SmithKline Beecham (URL: http://www.sb.com/) , and CNN -- Willow. 

 BAY: Bruce Francis, thank you. 

 Coming up, forget CEO, or daredevil, now you just have to call him, sir. The corporate maverick at Virgin has been knighted by the queen. Richard Branson joins us next with his latest plans. Word is they`re out of this world. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: So far, its this year`s biggest IPO, but that`s about the only record it holds. John Hancock Financial Services hit the street at $17 a share, and barely budged all day. Earlier on CNN, the company`s CEO explained how he plans to attract new investors. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 STEPHEN BROWN, CEO, JOHN HANCOCK FIN. SVCS.: We`re managing this company on the basis of a 15 percent earnings growth rate and 15 percent ROE. In the short run, we would expect to be at least 12 percent in both of those measures, so we think we have a significant upside ahead of us. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 BAY: Shares of John Hancock Financial Services up just 5/8 on its market debut. But another IPO pulled off a more sizable gain, Extensity  more than tripled to 71 1/4. The company makes Internet- based software that helps companies track employee spending. 

 Checking tonight`s other stock movers, General Motors gained nearly 4 1/4. Goldman Sachs upgraded the auto maker to its recommended list. It said GM`s valuation is at an all-time low and expects a partial spin-off of  its Hughes Electronics unit in the next few months. Polaroid up 1 5/8, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter raised the camera and film maker to an outperform rating. It cited new products and Polaroid`s current price. And Sycamore Networks (URL: http://www.sycamorenet.com/) gained nearly 13 1/4, the networking equipment  firm announced a three-for-one stock split late yesterday. Sycamore went public just three months ago at $38 a share. It`s now up more than eight fold. 

 Well, he has tackled new businesses with the same intensity he has tackled new adventures. And now, Richard Branson is setting his sights on something even bigger, outer space, and yes, he wants a bigger piece of cyber space as well. 

 Joining us now, a man who was recently knighted by Queen Elizabeth, Richard Branson, chairman and CEO of the Virgin Group. Welcome back. We should point out that it`s not quite official yet. The ceremony is next month? 

 RICHARD BRANSON, CHMN. & CEO, VIRGIN GROUP: Next month. You never curtsied when you saw me. 

 BAY: I know. I am so terribly sorry, but next time you join us I will call you "sir," I promise. 

 Famous for starting new ventures and now you really want to become a serious player in the Internet space? 

 BRANSON: Yes, I mean, I think anybody who doesn`t want to become a serious player is foolish. Virgin.com in England, you know, we believe we can make the number one Internet site. And I think the Virgin name globally has got a chance of being one of the first sort of brand names to do well on a global basis. 

 BAY: And one element of your strategy is mobile telephony. You`re -- you have submitted a bid. When do you know if that bid was approved or accepted? 

 BRANSON: In about two or three months` time. I mean, there`s a new mobile  phone which will be able to download videos, music, the Internet, you name it, and it`s called UMTS and that`s something we`re trying. 

 BAY: And your investors in that include Paul Allen and George Soros, am I correct? 

 BRANSON: Yes, we have got quite an impressive list of people. 

 BAY: Benefits of the Web or celebrity? 

 BRANSON: Well, they have got good, deep pockets, which you need in that as well. 

 BAY: Do you worry that the Internet is a threat to your traditional businesses? 

 BRANSON: Yes. I mean, certainly things like our music stores are under threat and what we need is for the record companies to, you know, to look after the music stores. 

 BAY: Because your COO has been quite vocal about that, addressing the issue with the record companies. 

 BRANSON: Yes. I think -- I mean, the record company is going to make a lot more money out of the Internet downloading direct to people. If they want to have music stores, they`re going to have to also look after the music stores. 

 BAY: But -- so what`s the solution then? 

 BRANSON: The solution is simply to pay the music stores bigger margins from the profits that the record companies make from the Internet. 

 BAY: Question about space travel, I know one of your newer ventures. Give us a progress report. 

 BRANSON: Well, Virgin Intergalactic Airways is waiting to take people into space and obviously I hope... 

 BAY: Just when will that happen, do you suspect? 

 BRANSON: I think we`re talking about seven years away, maybe 10 years away. 

 BAY: I mean, you really think that we`ll be traveling on Virgin Intergalactic to outer space in seven years? 

 BRANSON: I think so, within 10 years anyway. And Virgin Hotels of course up there and -- when you think space is only 50 miles away, it`s not far, we just have to get through there. 

 BAY: Richard Branson, as always, thank you for joining us. 

 BRANSON: Thank you. 

 BAY: Up next, "Ahead of the Curve," some of what you need to know tonight before the markets open tomorrow. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Checking some of what could move the markets tomorrow, keep an eye on shares of Veritas Software (URL: http://www.veritas.com/) Software, up more than $10 in late trading after it beat fourth-quarter profit estimates and announced a three-for-two stock split. Lockheed Martin (URL: http://www.lockheed.com) and Ericsson (URL: http://www.ericsson.com/) expected to report their latest profit results tomorrow. And on the economic front, the employment cost index and fourth quarter GDP. 

 That is MONEYLINE for this Thursday. I`m Willow Bay, thanks for joining us. "CROSSFIRE" is next. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc.  ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.  No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the  material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less  than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material.  This is  not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document mnyl000020010808dw1r00064


 Dell Computer Issues Earnings Warning 

 Leah Beth Ward 
522 words
27 January 2000
Texas
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 Dell Computer Corp. warned Wednesday that fourth-quarter earnings would lag behind estimates by 5 cents a share, its second warning related to profitability in recent months. 

 Dell, the largest direct seller of personal computers, said a shortage of components and Y2K concerns would lead to earnings of 16 cents a share, compared with a consensus estimate of 21 cents a share for the quarter ending Jan. 28. Earnings are expected to be about $430 million, which includes a gain of about 1 cent per share from the sale of investments. 

 While the announcement amounted to an earnings release, the Round Rock, Texas, company will issue official, full fourth-quarter and year-end figures Feb. 10. 

 Meanwhile, shares of Compaq Computer Corp., based in Houston, fell about 9 percent Wednesday after the worldwide leader in computer sales reported disappointing earnings on Tuesday. 

 Compaq closed at $29.31 Wednesday, down $2.94. It was the third-most actively traded stock on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Ashok Kumar, an analyst with U.S. Bancorp PiperJaffrey, saw Compaq's drop as a good opportunity for investors and issued an "aggressive buy" rating on the stock. 

 Dell executives painted a cautious outlook for the fourth quarter and the first quarter of this year. They also set what they called "more reasonable goals" for the coming year in hopes of not disappointing investors again. 

 The company said fourth-quarter revenue would be about $6.7 billion, up 30 percent compared with the 1998 quarter but below a historic growth rate of more than 50 percent. 

 Tom Meredith, chief financial officer, said the company overestimated how quickly big corporate customers would order new systems in January. He said orders are usually up about 9 percent. "We just didn't get that," he said. 

 Mr. Meredith said shortages in key semiconductor components also hurt sales. The company delivered products it had not promoted in its seasonal campaign. He estimated the cost of the unproductive marketing effort at about $300 million in revenue, or 3 cents a share. 

 "Most of these issues have been resolved but just too late to help us this quarter," he said. 

 Shares of Dell dropped as low as $36 after the warning and closed at $40.38 in regular trading hours. Shares bounced between $40 and $37 in early after-hours trading. Dell traded as high as $52.69 a share last month but recently has been hovering in the range of $43 a share. 

 Michael Dell said major corporate customers are looking at purchases in late February, which could lead to a second slow month. "February is not going to be tremendously strong for the industry," he said. 

 Analysts were generally troubled by the early warning, which is the second time since October that Dell has put up the caution flag. Then, the company said third-quarter profit margins would fall because of rising chip prices. When the quarter results came in on Nov. 11, however, the company met expectations. 

 Andrew Neff of Bear, Stearns speculated about whether "there's something more fundamental going on." 

Document krtbn00020010807dw1r00axe




 Blue chips up in late morning as technology slides. 

569 words
26 January 2000
16:21
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 26 (Reuters) - Blue chip stocks pushed higher in late morning trading on Wednesday as technology stocks slid on the heels of a profit warning from technology darling Qualcomm Inc.. 

 "Generally the money in technology names is very skittish and any time there's bad news, they just look for something else to go to," said Peter Gottlieb, the vice president and portfolio manager at First Albany Asset Management in Chicago. "I'm not sure that people are even looking at the fundamentals. It's just the tone." 

 The Nasdaq composite index .IXIC) was down 55 points, or 1.33 percent, at 4,112. Wireless technology developer Qualcomm was the most active stock, down 24 at 125 after it reported first-quarter earnings that topped expectations and warned that product shipments in the second quarter could decline. 

 Merrill Lynch also cut its rating on the stock to near-term neutral from accumulate while Credit Suisse First Boston reiterated it at buy. 

 "That was sort of the bellwether high-flier stock," said Thom Brown, the managing director of Rutherford Brown. "It's such an extravagant multiple. It can't afford to make any mistakes." 

 Strong financial stocks were leading the Dow Jones industrial average .DJI) up 9 points, or 0.09 percent, at 11,039. American Express was up 5-9/16 at 163-15/16 while J P Morgan & Co Inc. was up 4-1/8 at 120-5/16 

 DuPont Co., the No.1 U.S. chemical company and a member of the Dow component, was up 2-3/8 at 63-7/8 after it said on Wednesday its earnings fell more than 14 percent in the fourth quarter due to higher costs for raw materials. Still, its earnings matched Wall Street expectations. 

 Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing Co. was up 5-1/2 at 96-7/8 after it reported better than expected earnings and said it expects worldwide sales to grow by 6 percent to 7 percent in 2000, excluding the impact of currencies and acquisitions. 

 Coca-Cola Co. was off 1-9/16 at 64-5/16 after it said it will cut about 6,000 jobs in a reorganization. The Atlanta-based soft drink giant also reported fourth-quarter earnings that topped Wall Street per share profit expectations by a penny, excluding an $813 million writedown on foreign assets. 

 Elsewhere, Merck & Co. Inc., the No. 1 U.S. pharmaceutical company, was up 1-1/16 at 71-3/4 after it said on its fourth-quarter profits rose 12 percent, in line with expectations. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index .SPX) was down 4 points, or 0.31 percent, to 1,405. 

 Advancing shares outpaced declines by 3 to 2 with more than 340 million shares traded on the New York Stock Exchange. There were 26 stocks trading at new highs and 73 at new lows. 

 Stock traders are also expected to pay close attention to the bond market, where the benchmark 30-year U.S. Treasury bond was up 11/32 with a yield at 6.61 percent, compared with its close at 6.64 percent on Tuesday. Trading will be shaped by the $15 billion, two-year note auction at 1 p.m. EST (1800 GMT). 

 ((Wall Street Newsdesk +212 859 1730)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw1q0a83l




 U.S. stocks open mixed, Qualcomm leads techs lower. 

616 words
26 January 2000
15:16
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 26 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks opened mixed on Wednesday as a profit warning from technology darling Qualcomm Inc. and news of charges and layoffs at Coca-Cola Co. added to unrest over rising interest rates. 

 "I had hoped we would rally a little bit more than we did. It looks like the bears are still in control right now," said Doug Myers, the vice president of equity trading at Wachovia Securities in Atlanta. "People are paying attention to the higher interest rates and the higher oil prices." 

 The Dow Jones industrial average .DJI) was up 51 points, or 0.47 percent, at 11,081 with losses from Coca-Cola Co., which said it will cut about 6,000 jobs in a reorganization. The Atlanta-based soft drink giant also reported fourth-quarter earnings that topped Wall Street per share profit expectations by a penny, excluding an $813 million writedown on foreign assets. 

 Coke was off 1-13/16 at 64-1/16. 

 The Nasdaq composite index .IXIC) was down 17 points, or 0.42 percent, at 4,149. The most active Nasdaq stock was wireless technology developer Qualcomm Inc., which was down 20-1/16 at 128-15/16 after it reported first-quarter earnings that topped expectations and warned that product shipments in the second quarter could decline. 

 Merrill Lynch also cut its rating on the stock to near-term neutral from accumulate while Credit Suisse First Boston reiterated it at buy. 

 "That was sort of the bellwether high-flier stock," Thom Brown, the managing director of Rutherford Brown said and noted that losses there cold set a negative tone for stock with similar valuation. "It's such an extravagant multiple. It can't afford to make any mistakes." 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 Index .SPX) was down 1 point, or 0.10 percent, to 1,408. 

 Advancing shares outpaced declines by 4 to 3 with more than 99 million shares traded on the New York Stock Exchange. There were 19 stocks trading at new highs and 36 at new lows. 

 Stock traders are also expected to pay close attention to the bond market, where the benchmark 30-year U.S. Treasury bond was up 15/32 with a yield at 6.60 percent, compared with its close at 6.64 percent on Tuesday. Trading will be shaped by the $15 billion, two-year note auction at 1 p.m. EST (1800 GMT). 

 "It will be an interesting auction," Brown said. "I would think the demand ought to be good." 

 Other companies in the news included Ford Motor Co., which reported per-share earnings of $1.47, which includes 8 cents per share in union payouts. Operating earnings were $1.55 a diluted share. Analyst were expecting $1.45 per share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 It was down 1 at 49-1/8. 

 The world's largest personal computer maker, Compaq Computer Corp. said fourth-quarter net income fell 56 percent to $332 million, in line with lowered expectations on Tuesday after the close of trading. The shares were down 1-13/16 at 30-7/16. 

 Online auction house eBay Inc. was up 7-1/4 at 144-3/4 after it reported its fourth-quarter operating profit surged as sales more than doubled and it added 305,000 users in the period. 

 Biotechnology firm Amgen Inc. was down 1-11/16 at 67-11/16 after it said its earnings climbed 18 percent in the fourth quarter, but it warned of slower growth ahead. 

 ((Amy Collins, Wall Street Newsdesk +212 859 1730)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw1q0a7kn


 Business 
 MONEYLINE; Co - CEO 

 Willow Bay, Charles Molineaux, Fred Katayama, Greg Clarkin, Bruce Francis 
7,875 words
26 January 2000
23:30
CNNfn: Moneyline News Hour
MNYL
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 WILLOW BAY, CNNfn ANCHOR, MONEYLINE: Tonight, the Nasdaq tumbled. What will it do tomorrow now that Dell Computer has set off a late-day profit alarm? 

 Coca-Cola (URL: http://www.cocacola.com/) , more than a century old, announcing the most dramatic shake-up in its history. So why did Wall Street seem less than impressed? Primetime viewing in the Chicago trading pits, with all eyes and ears on a congressional lovefest -- Alan Greenspan`s renomination hearings. And the other Bush with a bold promise about taxes: Does George W. have a plan that will bolster the economy. Our special series continues. 

 ANNOUNCER: This is the MONEYLINE NEWS HOUR. Reporting tonight from New York, Willow Bay. 

 BAY: Good evening. Stuart is on vacation. 

 Direct from Austin to Wall Street, an after-the-bell profit warning from Dell (URL: http://www.dell.com/) . Just two hours ago, America`s biggest PC seller warned that revenue and earnings would fall short of expectations for the second time in a year. The culprits: a shortage of parts and a sales slowdown post Y2K. Dell`s stock is off four in heavy after-hours trading. We`ll have more on this developing story later on MONEYLINE. 

 Dell was also a loser during regular trading today and had plenty of company. The Nasdaq ended down nearly 100 points, at its session low, causing investors to fear that yesterday`s rally was merely temporary. 

 Charles Molineaux joins us now with more -- Charles. 

 CHARLES MOLINEAUX, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: That`s right, Willow. That noise from Dell was the other shoe dropping. But it started with Qualcomm (URL: http://www.qualcomm.com/) earnings after the close last night. Worries about earnings and interest rates weigh down on technology stock, keeping the Nasdaq composite in negative territory from shortly after the open all day today. We ended up falling by 97 points, closing out the day at 4,069. Volume was heavy -- 1.7 billion shares. 

 It was the telecommunications stocks that led the market down, after Qualcomm (URL: http://www.qualcomm.com/) reported earnings that beat the official projections but missed the whisper number and including cautions about demand going forward. That spilled over onto computer and industrial stocks, which both fell off, rattling chip companies, like Intel and chip equipment makers, like Applied Materials (URL: http://www.appliedmaterials.com/) and Novellus Systems (URL: http://www.novellus.com/) . As a group, chip stocks fell 4 percent. Telecommunication chips have played a major role in chips sales growth, so not that news from Qualcomm was not what chipmakers wanted to hear. Internet stocks slid by 2 percent. Yahoo! fell. 

 Even bold movers or business-to-business plays like Internet Capital Group fell off on the day today. EBay kept climbing though, after reporting better-than-expected earnings and got some dazzling analysts` comments. 

 Financial and banking stocks actually split the day today, after Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said nothing threatening about interest rates. Strategists say we are seeing more of the same. Investors are buying stocks up, expecting good earnings, then selling off if profits miss the best expectations or selling if they get those good earnings, unless the forward-looking picture stays bullish -- Willow. 

 BAY: Charles, expect Dell will drag the market down tomorrow? 

 MOLINEAUX: Absolutely, although Dell`s been an interesting case, because there has been expectation of some sort of an earnings warning from the company for months. But of course Dell`s expectations have historically been extremely high, so there will be some punishment meted out tomorrow, yes. 

 BAY: Charles Molineaux, at the Nasdaq, thank you. 

 The Dow continued a two-session winning streak with a colossal gain of, well, just over three points. But considering the steep sell-off on the Nasdaq, fans of the blue chips can`t complain about their modest gain. 

 Fred Katayama reports. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 FRED KATAYAMA, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Call it Wall Street Unplugged -- amid a steep slide in the technology sector, traders tuned into blue chip stocks instead. Tech stocks suffered on word of a bearish outlook for shipments from wireless wunderkind Qualcomm. That hurt Bib Board tech stocks, including H-P, IBM, Intel and Microsoft. But a banner profit report from 3M helped support the Dow. By the closing bell, the industrials finished with a 3-point gain at 11032. 

 Not so for the Nasdaq. A selling cyclone ripped 97 points off the composite. It closed at 4069. Fears that Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan might roil the markets at his reconfirmation hearing proved unfounded. But even his benign words couldn`t stop the drop. 

 RAM KOLLURI, GLOBALVALUE INVESTORS: We will see, unfortunately, gut- wrenching volatility in the sector. If you are a trader, take  profits; if you`re a long-term investor, hold on, and buy on dips. 

 KATAYAMA: But buying on dips can be difficult in a climate of confusion. Despite confidence in the economy, some analysts question the stamina of the stock market after last year`s sprint. 

 RICHARD MCCABE, MERRILL LYNCH: Advances like we had in late 1999 sort of peak out in a "V" fashion, straight up, and then straight down, but sometimes, in fact more than not, advancers top out by a dip, a rally, a dip, a rally. They sort of roll over a month or two time span. So I`m thinking that may be the case here in January. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 KATAYAMA: Even if the wave motion on Wall Street settles in the short- term, plotting a new course remains a challenge. According to Merrill`s McCabe, the cycle of selling should end with a market correction in  the spring -- Willow. 

 BAY: Thanks, Fred. Fred Katayama reporting. 

 Chairman Greenspan may have delivered "benign words" to investors, but he sent a stern message to politicians about the surplus: Use it to pay off the debt before cutting taxes. That was the frequent refrain today at Greenspan`s renomination hearings before the Senate Banking Committee. The Fed chief also described his role if, as expected, he is granted a fourth term. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 ALAN GREENSPAN, FEDERAL RESERVE CHAIRMAN: Our challenge in monetary policy is to foster as best we can the financial conditions that will allow this economic expansion and technological revolution to continue as long and as vigorously as possible. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 BAY: Greenspan`s testimony comes one week before Fed policy-makers are set to decide on interest rates. 

 Five-hundred miles away from Washington today, a corporate bombshell from Coca-Cola. The troubled beverage giant, based in Atlanta, said it would slash more than a fifth of its work force with deep cuts in its home city. It`s the biggest overhaul in Coke`s history. The company out to decentralize operations, emphasizing local control  and more targeted marketing. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The wireless industry continues to grow. CDMA continues to grow. Within, that, we have some new chips that are now being designed into phones that will be becoming available for the remainder of the year. And so we picked up new customers for the chips. And so we see a question in the second quarter, because of... 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 BAY: Today`s bold move did not help the shares close higher. Coke`s stock, the second worst Dow performer of 1999, fell nearly $3. 

 Turning now to the day`s other top stories outside the world of business. That long-awaited meeting between Elian Gonzalez and  his grandmothers finally taking place in Miami. The women are asking Congress not to pass legislation making Elian a U.S. citizen. Massachusetts police searching for a 5-year-old girl, lost yesterday in an icy river, when she went to the aid of her brother during that powerful winter storm that hit the East Coast. While digging out continued, forecasters warned more is on the way. And Republican White House hopeful Orrin Hatch, as expected, quitting campaign 2000, after his last-place finish in Iowa. Hatch endorsed GOP front-runner George W. Bush. 

 We`ll focus on the Bush economic platform and his plans for your money later in this half hour. 

 And we should apologize, that was of course an incorrect sound bite we just played for you. That was, in fact, the CEO of Qualcomm. 

 Time now for a quick check on what some of MONEYLINE`s other reporters are working in for tonight`s broadcast. We begin with Greg Clarkin -- Greg. 

 GREG CLARKIN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: Well, Willow, Coca-Cola shocks Wall Street and its employees, with the biggest shakeup in the company`s 114- year history. But is the restructuring deep enough? I`ll tell you what Wall Street thinks. 

 YOUNG: And I`m Steve Young. I`ll tell you about a research firm whose forecast for business-to-business e-commerce just mushroomed, and a critic who says the number came from the Tooth Fairy -- Willow. 

 BAY: All right, thank you, Steve. 

 And coming right up on MONEYLINE: As you surf the Web, someone is watching your every move. We`ll tell you about the company that`s making notes and taking names, and you don`t even know about it. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: In the MONEYLINE "Tech Watch" tonight: new fuel for the debate over online privacy. DoubleClick (URL: http://www.doubleclick.net) delivers banner advertisements which appear on many Web sites, but now it`s also stirring up controversy with a new practice: targeting ads based  on a user`s personal information. 

 Bruce Francis has more. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 BRUCE FRANCIS, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): You might not have visited DoubleClick`s Web site, but chances are, it has visited you. Generally, if you go to a travel site, DoubleClick might send you an ad for a ski resort, not knowing if you ski. But under the new profiling system, DoubleClick could use personal information --volunteered in the past -- to know that your favorite travel destination is New York City, you only fly on Continental and that you just bought tickets to "The Lion King." The results: a more targeted ad, pushing perhaps the plaza hotel. 

 DoubleClick says that both consumer and advertiser are better  served by more specific ads, but privacy advocates are concerned. 

 TARA LEMMEY, ELECTRONIC FRONTIER FOUNDATION: Many people who are viewing information online do not realize what`s happening. DoubleClick has got relations with thousands of Web sites who have data where you`re reading on everything from who you`re voting for to what you`re reading about health care ailments to your horoscopes. 

 FRANCIS: DoubleClick spells out its privacy policy on its Web site, but it`s not a snap to understand. The company reassures you that it doesn`t collect personally identifiable information. In other words, DoubleClick follows your Web trail, but it doesn`t know your  identity. But the information they do collect could be associated with personal information. 

 LEMMEY: If you read these policies, it`s really not obvious to the average person, or even to some of the professionals, what exactly is happening, so it`s going to be very hard for them to have people go through a very arduous process of actually really understanding what`s going on. 

 FRANCIS: DoubleClick says that a consumer doesn`t become part of the profiling system unless he or she understands how the information will be used. The disclaimer, spelled out in lengthy boilerplate, like this on Netdeals.com, owned by DoubleClick. 

 And analysts say that DoubleClick isn`t doing anything different than traditional marketers. 

 LOWELL SINGER, ROBERTSON STEPHENS: It`s what direct marketers do. It`s what`s telephone marketing companies do. And the truth is, that we believe consumers fundamentally expect that there`s some cost associated with the Internet. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 FRANCIS: DoubleClick declined to speak with us on camera, but noted in a telephone interview that it is meeting with New York`s attorney general and the Federal Trade Commission, meetings that the company describes as educational. 

 Willow, it looks like a little education is needed. 

 BAY: Well, Bruce, I`m confused, does it actually matter what kind of information the company is giving away, the degree of sensitivity? 

 FRANCIS: I think it matters a whole lot. All information is not equal. A lot of consumers probably wouldn`t mind information about their preferences being released, but draw the line at something like medical or financial information. Let`s see where consumers do draw that line. It`s the important thing to watch. 

 BAY: And let me just get this straight -- and it`s tricky for consumers to determine precisely what kind of information they`re collecting, and therefore, possibly, giving away? 

 FRANCIS: Once you opt into this system, once you do register and say that you understand that this could be given away, you might not be sure exactly when, and how and who will get to use that information later on. Although DoubleClick insists that you will perceive a benefit for more targeted ads. 

 BAY: Rather complicated. 

 Bruce Francis, thank you. 

 For more on tech stocks and the tech markets, log on to CNNfn.com. 

 Next on MONEYLINE: the candidate who wasn`t afraid to say those three explosive words: no new taxes. In fact, George W. Bush is promising huge tax cuts, but at what cost to our fiscal future? Our special series, "MONEYLINE 2000: The Candidates," continues, with the Bush economic platform and its chief architect, Former Fed Governor Lawrence Lindsey. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Counting down to the New Hampshire primary next Tuesday, we continue now with our special series "MONEYLINE 2000: the Candidates," a look at the economic platforms of the leading White House contenders, with the help of three top analysts who specialize in economic issues: Greg Valliere, of Schwab Washington research, Tom Gallagher, of the ISI Group; and Joe Lieber, of the Washington Analysis. 

 Tonight`s focus: George W. Bush -- what, as president, would he do with your money? The Texas Governor won in Iowa with 41 percent of the GOP vote. And exit polls show that voters who named the economy as their No. 1 issue overwhelmingly picked him. But how would this Bush as president navigate the economy and fiscal policy? 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY (voice-over): It`s the broken campaign promise that some believe cost George Bush the elder his re-election. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 GEORGE BUSH, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Read my lips: No new taxes! 

 (CHEERING) 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 BAY: But that experience didn`t keep George W. Bush from making his own bold promise earlier this month. 

 UNIDENTIFIED MALE: So governor, is this "No new taxes, so help  me God?" 

 GOV. GEORGE W. BUSH (R-TX), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: This is not only new taxes, this is tax cuts, so help me God. 

 BAY: Tax cutting is the cornerstone of his platform -- $483 billion over five years, replacing the current five income tax rates with four lower rates. The campaign says a family of four, earning $50,000, would have its tax bill cut in half, a family earning $75,000 by a quarter. Bush would also abolish estate taxes and slash the so- called marriage penalty. 

 G.W. BUSH: We will take down the tollgate on the road to middle class in America. 

 BAY: But Bush`s chief GOP rival says, "Don`t believe it." 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP, MCCAIN CAMPAIGN ADVERTISEMENT) 

 SEN. JOHN MCCAIN (R-AZ), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I won`t take every last 

 dime of the surplus and spend it on tax cuts that mostly benefit the wealthy. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 GREG VALLIERE, SCHWAB WASHINGTON RESEARCH GROUP: John McCain and many of the critics of George W. Bush`s tax plan are right, that the bulk  of the benefits go to relatively wealthy taxpayers, but as George W. Bush would point out, those are the people who pay most of the taxes. 

 BAY: But one break favored by the wealthy, a capital gains tax cut, is glaringly absent from the agenda. 

 JOE LIEBER, WASHINGTON ANALYSIS: The thing that stands out about Bush, a huge tax cut; he doesn`t mention anything about a capital gains tax cut in his plan. I think that`s politically smart. He`s trying to focus it more on the middle class. However, I that think if he was president and won the presidency, we would see a capital gains tax cut. That would be nice for investors. 

 BAY: But can Bush cut taxes and save Social Security? The candidate says he won`t touch any of the surplus accumulating within the Social Security trust fund over the next decade. A big chunk of the rest would go to tax cuts, cuts that John McCain calls "fiscally reckless." Alan Greenspan also opposes big tax cuts, fearing they will over stimulate the economy. A new Bush White House, therefore, would have to tread lightly with the Fed. 

 VALLIERE: I think that would be a paramount issue for George W. Bush, especially since his father really had rocky relations with Alan Greenspan. 

 BAY: Bush`s top pick for treasury secretary is an old Greenspan colleague, but one who supports tax cuts now. Former Fed Governor Lawrence Lindsey crafted the Bush tax plan, which has all the hallmarks of Reagan-era supply-side thinking. 

 In terms of trade, it`s the legacy of his father that Bush hopes to carry on. 

 BUSH: America believes in free markets and free trade. 

 THOMAS GALLAGHER, ISI GROUP: It looks as though Governor Bush has inherited the internationalism that his father had, and certainly he will represent that wing of the party. I think he`d be fairly strong -- he would be a fairly strong free-trader. 

 BAY: Bush supports China`s entry into the World Trade Organization and wants to expand NAFTA, the free trade pact championed by Bush Sr. a decade ago. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: His father`s legacy and his five years as Texas governor has helped George W. Bush attract high-profile help in amassing the biggest campaign war chest in history: more than 67 million so far. His CEO fund-raisers include AIG chief Hank Greenberg and Kenneth Lay of Enron (URL: http://.www.enron.com/) . 

 But when asked recently what single person he would rely on for economic 

 advice, Bush didn`t name a CEO, but rather former Fed Governor Lawrence Lindsey, described last month by The New York Times as "a supply-sider with a heart." He joins us now from Washington. 

 Lawrence, welcome back to MONEYLINE. 

 LAWRENCE LINDSEY, BUSH ECONOMIC ADVISER: Pleasure to be here. 

 BAY: As you know, the CBO revised its surplus figures upward. What would -- as president, what would George W Bush do with that extra money? 

 LINDSEY: Well, Governor Bush is not changing his plan at all. Under the CBO numbers, the country would be able to enact Governor Bush`s tax cut and still pay off the debt in 12 years. 

 BAY: The public doesn`t seem to be clamoring for tax cuts. So can you explain to us why you believe tax cuts are a more effective way to continue this economic boom than, say, debt reduction? 

 LINDSEY: Well, the point is we can do both, and there are a lot of particular problems with the tax code. We have a very high rate on entrepreneurs. We have a very high rate of marriage tax. We also have a very high rate on single parents raising kids who are trying to improve their lives. 

 And what Governor Bush asked us to do was to find the worst problems in the tax code and see what we could do about them, and that`s what we did you. 

 BAY: Now, you say that you can do both. Could you give me sort of a percentage breakdown of that 1.9 trillion over 10 years, for example? In percentage terms, how much of it do you envision going to tax cuts, how much to debt reduction, how much to other stuff? 

 LINDSEY: Well, again, over the -- we have a combined unified budget surplus that would allow us to retire the $3.6 trillion national debt over 12 years and still have Governor Bush`s tax program enacted. So under those numbers, more than two-thirds would actually end up going for deficit reduction -- debt reduction. 

 BAY: More than two-thirds. So -- OK. So you`re not concerned then with Mr. Greenspan being so vocal today on the subject of debt reduction, if it was his money to spend? You`re not worried about challenging him at all with these big tax cuts? 

 LINDSEY: Not a bit. I read everything that Chairman Greenspan writes and says. And one thing he pointed out was the same thing that Governor Bush has been saying: that the biggest threat we have is Congress and the president spending the money. And if you leave the money in Washington, there`s a high risk that it will be spent. 

 And so the most important thing that we can do is make sure that that money is either lockboxed for Social Security or returned to the people who earned it in the first place. 

 BAY: Mr. Lindsey, thanks for joining us tonight. 

 LINDSEY: My pleasure. 

 BAY: Our special series continues tomorrow night with a look at Bush`s chief competitor, the senator from Arizona who plans to take New Hampshire by storm. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 SEN. JOHN MCCAIN (R-AZ), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We can make American political history. We can surprise them all. The inside- the-Beltway gas bags that said we didn`t have a chance, we can show them. We can show them, OK. We can fool them all. 

 (APPLAUSE) 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 BAY: But beyond the high-flying rhetoric, what`s McCain`s economic policy? We`ll find out tomorrow as "MONEYLINE 2000: The Candidates" continues. 

 And MONEYLINE will be right back. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: That does it for this half hour of MONEYLINE. 

 ANNOUNCER:  MONEYLINE continues.  Here again, Willow Bay. 

 BAY:  Good evening.  Stuart is on vacation. In tonight`s headlines, for the second time in three days, the Nasdaq takes it on the chin, suffering one of its worst point drops ever.  Alan Greenspan asks Congress for four more years, one week before the Federal Reserve`s first interest rate decision of the 21st Century. A brighter Y2K outlook for a telecom titan.  Tonight, I`ll talk with Nortel Networks (URL: http://www.nortelnetworks.com/) chief executive John Roth. 

 First our top story.  Red flags from Dell Computer after the stock market closed. The nation`s leading PC maker warned that profits and sales would fall short of forecasts for the second quarter in a row. Dell still expects sales to rise 30 percent from a year ago, impressive by most standards.  But Dell investors have been used to truly explosive growth, growth that helped earned Dell its Teflon stock title.   Selling in after hours sent the stock down 4 in heavy trading. Peter Viles has more 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 PETER VILES, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  For the second quarter in a row, Dell Computer warned investors who have come to expect perfection that Dell will not deliver, warning that fourth quarter profits will come in at 16 cents a share.  That`s five cents  below Wall Street`s expectations. 

 BRIAN FINNERTY, CE  UNTERBERG TOWBIN: It`s pretty much of a shock when we have been recommending Dell Computer as, with a strong buy on the stock.  So this is pretty much of a shock.  I think what happened  here was Dell came out and at first it might be a cost problem, but it looks more like a top line revenue problem. 

 VILES:  The problems according to Dell quote an uneven and constrained supply of semiconductor components, in other words a parts shortage that will cost $300 million in lost sales.  Unlike rival Gateway (URL: http://www.gateway.com/) which blamed a similar problem on Intel (URL: http://www.intel.com/) , Dell did not name names.  Dell also had a Y2K problem and a big one, quote, corporate demand following the Y2K roll over was lower than anticipated. That cost $1/2 billion in lost revenue and raised questions about fall out still to come from the way Y2K changed corporate buying patterns. 

 JOSEPH McALINDEN, MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER: The question is, how much of that strong  fourth quarter that we saw was really end product demand and how much of it was going into inventory just in case there was a Y2K problem. That may be coming home to roost for a lot  of these tech companies in the weeks ahead. 

 VILES:  Dell`s growth was already slowing and today the company warned it will slow further from 48 percent revenue growth in fiscal  `99 to 38 percent growth in fiscal 2000 and now warning growth in fiscal 2001 will be in the low 30 percent range. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 In a related development tonight, Hewlett-Packard (URL: http//www.hp.com/) put out a statement reassuring investors, saying it won`t be next, that its first quarter is on track and that revenue growth in its PC business are both strong.  Hewlett-Packard reports fourth quarter results in mid-February. 

 BAY:  That`s somewhat unusual to have that quick a response is it not? 

 VILES: Very unusual for a company to come out and say everything`s fine. 

 We`d expect a company to come out and tell us if there`s something wrong, but Hewlett-Packard did not want to be tarred with the brush that they might be next. 

 BAY: Making that clear. Peter Viles, thank you. 

 Before Dell`s news, Wall Street was riveted by the most dramatic downsizing in Coca-Cola`s history. A fifth of Coke`s global work force will loose their job, including almost half of the staff at the company`s Atlanta headquarters, a harsh move for the company that  once tried to teach the world to sing.  But a welcome move on Wall Street, desperate to revive Coca-Cola`s sales and profits.  Still, Coke stock fell more than 2 3/4 today.  Greg Clarkin has the story. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 GREG CLARKIN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: Cocola stuns Wall Street and its employees slashing jobs as it struggles to restore growth and investor confidence. Coke will cut 6,000 new jobs, 21 percent of its work force, almost hals will be from its Atlanta headquarters.  An operation some believe has become bloated in recent years. 

 CAROLINE LEVY, SCHRODERS:  What seems to have happened is that corporate got too involved. Too many decisoins were having to be made in Atlanta slowing up the process and now allowing these local markets to compete effectively. 

 CLARKIN: Coke`s incoming CEO, Douglas Daff (ph) has 30 years at the company.  Almost all of it in the field away from Atlanta. He and his management team want to shift more power to those executives in the field. 

 JACK STAHL, EXEC. VP, COCA COLA:  We have very much taken a ground up approach to this and we believe that if we`re going to grow the business effectively we need to focus our resources on marketing and that we do have the right structure in place now to move ahead. 

 CLARKIN: Coke will take $1.6s in current and future charges to cover their restructuring. The moves are expected to save $300 million annually. Daff also says that Wall Street`s near term projections for earnings and volume growth are too high. That spooked investors who sold off shares.  On the year Coke stock is up less than 5 percent. It was a year that saw product recalls in Europe. Slower sales over seas and in the US and the sudden December departure of CEO Doug Ivestor.  Analysts expect earnings growth in the mid teens from coke down from 18 percent just a.few years ago. But many believe the restructuring repositions the ocmpany for a strong second half of 2000. 

 DOUG LANE, MERRIL LYNCH: I think we`re too quarters away from seeing decent growth numbers from this company that I think is going to be sustainable. 

 (on-camera):  Now many on Wall Street give Daff high marks for today`s massive restructuring saying the corporate of Coca Cola needed a jolt and  as economies recover overeseas they expect to see Daff`s mantra of think locally, act locally pay off. 

 Willow. 

 BAY: Greg Clarkin, thank you. 

 As for the overall market picture today a sharp sell off in technology stocks wiped out all of yesterday`s Nasdaq rally and then some. The catalyst for today`s tech sell off, Qualcomm`s (URL: http://www.qualcomm.com/) warner of lower second quarter product shipments. But even as the Nasdaq plunged the Dow Industrials managed a slight gain.  Up 3 to 11,032. Volume on the big board 1.1 billion shares. The mood on the big board was fairly up beat. Winners beat losers by a margin of more than 4 to 3. Forty four stocks hit new highs, 129 fell to new lows and many of those lows were on the Nasdaq, which shed more than 2 percent to close at 4,069. Volume there 1.7 billion. 

 Some of today`s biggest tech losers Intel (URL: http://www.intel.com/) down more than 5. Cisco (URL: http://www.cisco.com/) down nearly 5. HP (URL: http//www.hp.com/) fell nearly 4 1/4. Microsoft (URL: http://www.microsoft.com/) off more than $3 and IBM (URL: http://www.ibm.com/) down 2 5/8. 

 One birght spot today, the bond market. Thirty Year Treasury gained 25/32 of apoint pushing theyield down to 6.56 percent. 

 Helping matters today`s Capital Hill testomony from Federal rEserve Chairman, Alan Greenspan.  He said he saw no signs of the nation`s ra`e of productivity growth is slowing.  The key factor holding down inflaiton. The topic of Greenspan`s testimony was whether he should lead the Central Bank for another four years. The formal vote won`t come until next week, but it`s a safe bet the renomination will sail through the Senate. 

 From Washington, Bill Dorman reports. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 BILL DORMAN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT:  Alan Greenspan gave no surprises to financial markets today.  Just a reminder his priorities have not changed. 

 ALAN GREENSPAN,  FEDERAL RESERVE CHAIRMAN:  Our challenge in monetary policy is to foster as best we can the financial conditions that will allow this economic expansion and technological revolution to continue as long and as vigorously as possible. 

 DORMAN:  Law makers wanted to know Greenspan`s reaction to increased estimates of budget surpluses coming from the Congressional Budget Office. The Fed chairman`s long standing preference on how to use that money, pay down the federal debt. 

 GREENSPAN: That proves politically infeasible.  I would opt for cutting taxes and under no condiitons do I see any room in the longer term outlook for major changes  in expinditures. 

 DORMAN: Other points from the chairman too many investors are borowing money to buy stocks. The solutin Greenspan says is not to raise margin requirements, but the Fed is still studying the issue.  In the workplace the Fed chairman says one strength int he US economy is its flexibility and ironically the ability of companies to fire some employers. 

 GREENSPAN: The greater the ability to discharge people, the greater is the willingness to hire people and the net effect of that and, I don`t think it was readily forecastable has been to reduce the unemployment rate and crate far great job opportunities for everybody. 

 DORMAN: Greenspan`s audience of senators was attentive and greatful. 

 SENATOR PHIL GRAMM, BANKING COMMITTEE CHMN: I want to thank you for all  you`ve done for this country and all you`ve done for our economy. 

 DORMAN: Greenspan gave no further indiation about his attitude on interest rates. 

 (on-camera):  If the Senate Banking Committee holds to its schedule, Alan Greenspan`s confirmation on the Senate floor coul dcome on the same day that the US economic expansion sets a new record.  Just before the Fed`s Open Market Committee votes to raise short term  interest rates. 

 Willow. 

 BAY: Bill Dorman, thank you. 

 Coming up Nortel Networks (URL: http://www.nortelnetworks.com/) impress investors with the promise of a fiber optic revolution. So, what rocked the stock today? We`ll ask Nortel`s CEO, John Roth when MONEY LINE continues. Stay with us. 

 COMMERCIAL BREAK 

 BAY:  Ending months of speculation, DaimlerChrysler (URL: http://www.daimlerchrysler.com) said Co-Chairman, Robert Eaton will retire at the end of March.  The 59 year old Eaton led Chrysler`s merger with DaimlerBenz in late 1988 and he had been widely expected to step down some time this year.  His retirement follows last year`s ouster of North American president, Thomas Thalcamp (ph) leaving German management firmly in control of the auto maker. 

 A disappointing profit outlook atone of DaimlerChrysler`s chief rivals. Ford (URL: http://www.ford.com/) warned that first quarter earnings forecast will be difficult to mee, but the auto maker drove past fourth quarter estimates by two cents a share.  Profits up 73 percent despite weak European sales. Earlier on CNN its CFO said ye is pleased with the results. 

 HENRY WALLACE, CFO, FORD:  The total picture, which is of course a terrific year for Ford Motor Company with earnings of $7.2 billion and a very strong fourth quarter with a billion eight which represents the 15th consecutive quarter of record operating earnings. So, I think within the context, yes, there are problems, but two the company is in a very strong and healthy position. 

 BAY: A few Dow componetns also reported today.  McDonald`s (URL: http://www.mcdonalds.com/) missed estimates by a penny due to rising labor costs and disappointing results in Japan and Latin American. But domestic sales growth helped the fast food chain post a 40 percent jump in net  income. 

 A similar story at Philip Morris (URL: http://www.philipmorris.com/) . It also missed estimates by a penny.  Fourth quarter profits up slightly to $1.8 billion.  Investors sent all three stocks lower with McDonald`s down more than 4 1/4. 

 Prospects for a rosy 2000 at Nortel Networks led several Wall Street brokers today to raise their profit estimates, but Nortel stock still took a big hit on word that its largest shareholder, BCE (URL: http://www.bce.ca/) would spin off its 37 percent stake in Nortel.  The stock slumped nearly 2 3/4 today as investors tried to figure out BCE`s plan.  It`s still up more than 240 percent over the past year though. 

 Joining us from Ontario, Canada John Roth, chief executive at Nortel. John, welcome. 

 JOHN ROTH, CEO, NORTEL: Thank you. 

 BAY:  The news today did rattle the markets a bit.  I think in large part because there was some confusion about what exactly will happen to the interest in Nortel that BCE is spinning off. So why don`t you walk us briefly, if you would, those details. 

 ROTH: Sure. Sure.  Really what has happened is that Nortel`s success during the (OFF-MIKE) has forced BC to make this decision.  The value of the Nortel stock with BC olds is 37 percent of Nortel`s stock. That has risen so much because of Nortel`s success to a point where it`s completely overshadowing all the other assets that BC holds and not getting any value or recognition from the rest of the shareholders. 

 So, BC is going to distribute those shares to the shareholders that are BEC. There`s currently 540 million shares of Nortel`s stock held by BCE. Eseentially all of those will be distributed to the current BCE shareholders in what is called the butter fly transaction. 

 BAY:  OK. So, how do Nortel shareholders benefit then? 

 ROTH:  In several ways.  Number one, we`re going to have a lot better liquidty with this huge block, 40 percent that doesn`t trade. 

 While we have 1.3 billion shares out in the marketplace 40 percent of them don`t move and so this is going to make Nortel`s volume much more liquid which always helps the stock. 

 Second thing is there`s been a  lot of concern over what BCE would  do with  this large block of Nortel and this now removes all those concerns and I think removes a lot of uncertainty over our future. The other thing I agree is cropping out though is how it impacts our customers.  BCE is one of our custoemrs and through all the mergers and acqusitions taking place now between telecom carriers  BCE sold a big portion of Bell Canada (URL: http://www.bci.ca/e/) , 20 percent stake to AmeriTech (URL: http://www.ameritech.com/) , which now become Southwestern Bell. 

 Having a shareholder with a 40 percent stake in Nortel also being aligned so closely with a number of very now competing telephone companies this led a lot of our other custoemrs to ask us whether or not we`re totally objective and certainly as we are facing this booming market for optical equipment and we`re having some shortages many of our customers were asking me whether or not I was playing favorites. 

 BAY:  Real quickly before we go, fourth quarter was a good report, bet estimates.  You said your performance was better than you expected. Where do the surprises come from? 

 ROTH: We did a lot better in October than we expected. We picked up a lot of manufacturing capacity. We cut some of our back log. But as we left the year we left the year with a back log of $11 billion. That`s a record for Nortel. That`s up $4 billion from what we came into the year with, a 56 percent increase. That really sets up in a tremendous position going into the Year 2000 and I think  now with this move of BCE clearing out their block this really sets up Nortel to be a stand alone independent company with no incumberances at a time when we`re just booming.  A good position to be in. 

 BAY:  Still expecting revenue growth of around 20 percent toward 2000? 

 ROTH:  Yes. We`re saying 21 percent and we`re quite comfortable with tht kind of guidance. 

 BAY:  John Rogth of Nortel, thank you for joining us. 

 ROTH: Thank you. 

 Coming up to be or not to be in BtoB.  Consultants keep boosting predictions for the markets promise, but can you trust the numbers? That story just ahead. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Two Dow components top tonight`s stock movers.  3M (URL: http://www.mmm.com/) soared nearly 5. The maker of Post It Notes topped earnings estimates and said it expects record profits in 2000. 

 Texaco (URL: http://www.texaco.com/) down 2 3/4. Excluding special items it missed forecast by a penny.  It blamed weak oil and gas production in the United Kingdom and Indonesia and RealNetworks (URL: http://www.real.com/) soared 12.  Several Wall Street firms raised their 200 earnings estimates for Real Networks.  Late yesterday the Web media streamer reported strong profits and announced a stock split. 

 Internet consultants in a prediction war over the hottest trend in e- commerce.  It`s business to business or BtoB for short.  In the race to predict just how big, how fast the market will grow rival forecasters are racking up projections in the trillions. Steve Young reports. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 STEVE YOUNG, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: The GartnerGroup said today said global business to business e-commerce will grow six times bigger than forecast by its arch competitior Forrester Research. According to Forrester by 2003 BtoB will reach $1.3 trillion, but Gartner`s latest research puts the number at $7.3 trillion only one year later. 

 LEAH KNIGHT,GARTNERGROUP: We recently updated our forecast and increased them significantly because of a phenomenon that 1999 really ushered in which is what we call the e-market maker revolution. 

 YOUNG:  Just how big is $7.3 trillion.  It`s three fourths of the current US gross domestic product and one fifth the gross domestic product of the entire world. 

 ROBERT BRUSCA, ECOBEST CONSULTING:  I believe the business is growing and I believe it`s going to be big and I believe they`ll have  great opportunities there, but I also believe that these numbers are numbers that have been brought by the tooth fairy. 

 YOUNG: The GartnerGroup is ready for the skeptics who consider its forecast far out.  It dismisses gross domestic product as an old economy bench mark.  Udner its new economy rule the full value of a good that changes hands two or three times through an e-commerce supply chain should be double or triple counted. 

 Gartner uses a multiplier of between 2.2 and 2.4 and calls that the ka-ching factor. 

 KNIGHT: You count the entire value of the sales transaction. It`s the ka-ching in a cash register every time a product is sold. 

 YOUNG:  Never mind that in e-commerce there`s really no ka-ching. 

 (on-camera):  Or that Gartner`s number could be conservative. The Bank of America (URL: http://www.bankamerica.com/) has issued a report claiming e-commerce in the US alone right now is $50 tirllion.  If (OFF-MIKE) is right Gartner doesn`t have enough kapow. 

 Willow. 

 BAY: Well said, Steve.  Thank you. Steve Young reporting. 

 A warning from a closely watched sireless company put pressure on the chip equipment sector today. Merrill Lynch downgraded Qualcomm after its warning last night that shipments of some chips and wireless phones could fall this quarter. Qualcomm shares tumbled 24 3/8. 

 Leading chip equipment makers stock lower as well. 

 Shares of Applied Materials (URL: http://www.appliedmaterials.com/) down more than 10. 

 Novellus Systems (URL: http://www.novellus.com/) fell 3 5/8 and ASM Lithography (URL: http://www.asml.com/) tumbled 2 3/8. 

 Still to come we`ll talk with t he chief exectuive of one of the best performing stocks of the 1990s. EMC (URL: http://www.emc.com/) , Michael Rutgers (ph) on his company`s latest profit report andmore when MONEY LINE returns. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY:  Record profits not enough to boost shares of EMC today. The maker of data storage products reported lower than expected sales for an important segment of its business and investors fled. But EMC did set out some ambitious goals for the year including plans to hire 4,000 new employees. Revenue growth of more than 25 percent and by the end of 2001 EMC hopes to be a $12 billion company based on sales Despite today`s profit taking EMC is the fourth best best performer over the past decade among all US stocks.  Up 78000 percent. 

 Joining us now from Watertown, Massachusetts is the CEO, Michael Ruettgers. Michael welcome back to MONEY LINE. 

 MICHAEL RUETTGERS, CEO, EMC:   Thank you, Willow. Nice to be here again. 

 BAY:  What do you think triggered the sell off today? Was it that revenue number that wasn`t up to your usual revenue number? 

 RUETTGERS: Well, the revenue for the year is still approached on the basic business, 34 percent.  I think this is the 10th quarter in a row that we`ve had  results that beat expectations. We`ve always traded down.  I think today we probably got caught in a little bit of tech down draft at the same time. 

 BAY: So, you don`t think that investors looked at that number as a sign your growth picture has changed in any way? 

 RUETTGERS: Well, they shouldn`t. You know, we talked about growth for next year or this Year 2000 exceeding 25 percent. We talked about growth each quarter.  We hadn`t seen accelerating growth each quarter for the past several years. We don`t see a slow down in the first half of the year like other people have.  I`m somewhat mystified  myself. 

 BAY:  What is your sense of what`s going on? Do you get the feeling that maybe momentum players are fleeing techs? 

 RUETTGERS:  No.  I don`t think so.  I think if you look at the first trading days of January we`ve been up and down a number of times without any kind of news.  Others in the sector have been too. So, I think it`s just nervousness in the general market place. 

 BAY: And you think that growth that you`re projecting of 25 percent or so is enough to keep your stock a high flyer as it has been? 

 RUETTGERS: Well, I certainly lok at our growth rate compared to any others in the peer group and we`re growing faster than they are. 

 BAY: Michael Ruettgers of EMC, thank you for joining us. 

 RUETTGERS:  You bet. 

 BAY:  Up n ext, Ahead of the Curve. What you need to know tonight before the markets open tommorrow. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY:  Dell (URL: http://www.dell.com/) could set the tone for another rocky day on the Nasdaq tomorrow. Its stock down $4 in late trading after warning of earnings and revenue short fall. 

 JDS Uniphase (URL: http://www.jdsunph.com/) up  nearly 4 after it beat profit estimates and 

 Sycamore Networks (URL: http://www.sycamorenet.com/) soared nearly 10 after it announced a 3 for 1 stock split. 

 Expected to report tomorrow, Starbucks (URL: http://www.starbucks.com/) ,Priceline.com (URL: http://www.priceline.com/) , eToys (URL: http://www.etoys.com/) and Gillette (URL: http://www.gillette.com/) and a major IPO to hit the street, John Hancock Financial priced its $1.7 billion offering at  $17 a share. 

 That is MONEY LINE for this Wednesday.  I`m Willow Bay. Thank you for joining us. Good night from New York.  See you tomorrow. 

 END 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by Federal Document Clearing House, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any  material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news  media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator  and copyright holder of such material.  This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document mnyl000020010808dw1q00063




 Drug Distributor Bergen Brunswig Posts  Profit  Drop, Issues  Warning 

376 words
26 January 2000
15:03
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Bergen Brunswig Corp., one of the top drug distributors in the U.S., Wednesday reported a steep drop in first-quarter earnings and said it wouldn't meet its target for year-2000 earnings. 

 Orange, Calif.-based Bergen Brunswig (BBC) said net income fell 47% to $14.7 million, or 11 cents a share on a fully diluted basis, compared with $27.9 million, or 27 cents a diluted share, a year earlier. Revenue increased 18% to $5.93 billion. The results were in line with estimates. 

 The company said year-over-year earnings comparisons are negative due to lower-than-expected results at Stadtlander Drug Co., a pharmacy-services company, as well as long-term-care industry trends that have impacted Pharmerica Inc. Bergen Brunswig acquired Stadtlander and Pharmerica last year. 

 Bergen Brunswig previously had cited lower-than-expected occupancy by Medicare patients at Pharmerica facilities for earnings problems. Pharmerica is a long-term-care provider. 

 Last fall, Bergen Brunswig filed a lawsuit against Counsel Corp., the former owner of Stadtlander, accusing it of fraudulent overstatement of earnings at Stadtlander. The suit charged that Counsel manipulated Stadtlander's books to overstate its earnings during periods in which Stadtlander actually had little or no income. Counsel has denied the allegations. 

 "We are not satisfied with our year-over-year earnings decline and continue to pursue corrective actions to restore our profitability to acceptable levels," stated Robert E. Martini, Bergen Brunswig chairman and chief executive. 

 He said Bergen Brunswig expects its results to be impacted by continued losses at Stadtlander and deterioration in drug-company gross margins as a result of competition and lower-than-expected purchasing benefits. 

 Additionally, Martini said the company doesn't expect to meet its fiscal-2000 earnings-per-share growth objective. 

 In October, Bergen Brunswig said it planned to grow its fiscal-2000 revenue to a mid-to-high teens level, yielding an earnings-per-share growth rate in the low to mid teens. 

 The mean estimate of a First Call/Thomson Financial survey of 14 analysts is for earnings of 86 cents a diluted share for 2000. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dw1q00x71




 FFBN Tech Wrap: Chip Equip Group Leads Tech Stks Lower 

1,540 words
26 January 2000
23:17
Federal Filings Newswires
FF
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 


ISSUER: FEDERAL FILINGS BUSINESS NEWS
SYMBOL: X.FFI
=======================================================================
               "The Daily Technology Market Wrap-Up"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
          Published By The Federal Filings Technology Group
                        January 26, 2000
=======================================================================



        Technology stocks were down virtually across the board, possibly
falling victim to more profit-taking.  Our overall index fell 3.4% with the
storage devices and semiconductor equipment sectors taking the heaviest
hits.
        Hans Mosesmann, senior vice president of semiconductor analysts at
Prudential Securities Inc., attributed today's fall to the fact that some
technology stocks may be a little overvalued.  One of the catalysts that
drove stocks down was Qualcomm Inc.'s (QCOM) warning that it might have
lower chip sales in the second quarter as a result of seasonal factors and
handset component shortages, he said.
        The Qualcomm announcement pointed out that "even the high-flyers
are vulnerable to vagaries of seasonality and product transitions,"
Mosesmann said.  Since tech stocks have been so strong of late, it seemed
like a good time for investors to take some profits, Mosesmann said.
        As a result of the warning, several analysts downgraded their
recommendations on Qualcomm.  The announcement was part of the Qualcomm's
after-close earnings release Tuesday in which the company posted first-
quarter earnings per share of 25 cents, a penny ahead of expectations.
Qualcomm shares fell 24 3/8, or 16.4%, to 124 5/8.
        The chip-equipment group was led astray by industry-heavyweight
Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT), which sank 10 1/8, or 7%, to 134 5/16.
Novellus Systems Inc. (NVLS) shares gave 3 5/8, or 6.8%, to 49 13/16.
        Among chipmakers, MIPS Technologies Inc. (MIPS) shares slumped 5
1/4, or 10.2%, to 46, and Lattice Semiconductor Corp. (LSCC) relinquished 3
13/32, or 5.7%, to 56 13/16.  Intel Corp. (INTC) gave up 5 1/16, or 5%, to
end at 96 1/2.
        The storage devices downturn was led by industry giant EMC Corp.
(EMC), which fell 9 5/16, or 7.8%, to 110 11/16.  Although the company's
fourth-quarter earnings of 34 cents a share beat analysts' expectations by
3 cents, its enterprise storage revenue came in at the low end of some
analysts' estimates.
        Nortel Networks (NT) shares slid 8 15/16, or 8.2%, to 99 15/16,
despite Salomon Smith Barney Holdings Inc. upgrading the telecom equipment
maker to "buy" from "outperform."  After market close on Tuesday, Nortel
posted an operating income of $607 million, or 43 cents a share, 2 cents
ahead of analysts' estimates.
        In the Internet group, RealNetworks Inc. (RNWK) continued where it
left off a day earlier and climbed ahead 12 points, or 7.6% to 169 7/8.  On
the downside, USWeb Corp. (USWB) decreased another 6 1/2, or 14.3%, closing
at 39 1/16.  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) dropped 17 points, or 4.9%, to 328 9/16, as
the FFBN Internet Index squandered 3%.
        BMC Software Inc. (BMCS) sank 4 5/16, or 9.9%, a day after urging
analysts to pull back projections for its fourth quarter.  After meeting
already lowered estimates for its third-quarter, BMC Chief Executive Max
Watson said he anticipated fourth-quarter revenue would rise $25 million to
$30 million from the third quarter.  Many analysts had expected an increase
of about $50 million.
        The Dow Jones Industrial Average ended almost unchanged, ahead just
3.10 points higher, or 0.03%, at 11032.99.  The Nasdaq Composite Index
plunged 97.50, or 2.34%, to 4069.91, while the Standard & Poor's 500 Stock
Index slipped 5.94, or 0.42%, to 1404.09.
COMPANY NEWS:
                                          Net    Pct       EPS      EPS
                              Close     Change  Change     99E      00E
HARRIS CORP.  (HRS)           32        +2 7/8   +9.9%    $0.83    $1.30
MTI TECH CORP.  (MTIC)        30 3/8      -7/8   -2.8%    $0.53    $0.75
NEW ERA OF NETWORKS (NEON)    61 3/8   -1 1/16   -1.7%   $(0.28)   $0.21
Harris topped the Zacks consensus estimate by 2 cents for its second
quarter ended Dec. 31, earning operating income of 18 cents a share.
Revenue rose 5.6% to $441 million from $417.5 million.
MTI Technology met Zacks consensus estimates for its fourth quarter ended
Jan. 1, earning 14 cents a share, excluding charges.  Fourth quarter
revenue grew to $59 million from $47.7 million.
New Era of Networks topped analysts' estimates by 2 cents for its fourth
quarter, breaking even excluding certain charges.  In the same period a
year ago, the company had an operating income of $3 million, or 10 cents a
share, including charges.  Revenues increased to $38.6 million from $27.3
million a year ago.
                                          Net    Pct       EPS      EPS
                              Close     Change  Change     00E      01E
COMPUTER ASSOCIATES (CA)      74 9/16     -1/8   -0.2%    $3.26    $3.77
RED HAT INC. (RHAT)           113 3/8   -27/32   -0.7%   $(0.09)  $(0.04)
Computer Associates International Inc. and Red Hat Inc. signed a
distribution, marketing and support agreement.  Computer Associates said
Red Hat will distribute Computer Associates' enterprise management products
with its Red Hat Linux enterprise edition software as a "seamless
management solution."
In turn, Computer Associate's direct sales organization will sell Red Hat's
enterprise support agreements to Unicenter TNG clients.  Red Hat will
fulfill orders through its Internet site, channel partners and through
telesales campaigns. The companies will collaborate on marketing and
training through joint product seminars, channel programs and education
courses.
                                          Net    Pct       EPS      EPS
                              Close     Change  Change     99E      00E
BROADVISION INC. (BVSN)       152 1/16  -4 1/2   -2.9%    $0.18    $0.24
Broadvision Inc. signed a definitive agreement to acquire Interleaf Inc.
(LEAF) in a stock deal valued at about $877 million, based on the
companies' Jan. 25 closing price.  Broadvision said it will exchange 0.3465
common shares for each Interleaf share.  Under these terms, Broadvision
will issue about 5.6 million common shares.  Both companies' boards have
approved the deal, Broadvision said.
                                          Net    Pct       EPS      EPS
                              Close     Change  Change     00E      01E
QUALCOMM INC.  (QCOM)         124 5/8  -24 3/8  -16.4%    $1.02    $1.33
Qualcomm plans to acquire SnapTrack Inc., a San Jose-based wireless
position location provider, for $1 billion in stock.  Qualcomm said
SnapTrack will become a wholly-owned subsidiary.  Qualcomm expects the
transaction to close by mid-March.
                                         Net     Pct       EPS      EPS
                              Close    Change   Change     00E      01E
CADENCE DESIGN SYS (CDN)      22 11/16 -1 5/16   -5.5%    $0.37      NA
EXCITE@HOME CORP.  (ATHM)     37 13/16 -1        -2.6%    $0.18      NA
ELECTRONIC DATA SYS (EDS)     69 13/16 -1 11/16  -2.4%    $2.25      NA
APEX INC.  (APEX)             44 5/8  +3 27/32   +9.4%    $1.25      NA
MANUGISTICS GROUP (MANU)      47 9/16 +2 15/16   +6.6%   $(0.32)   $0.16
MAXIM INTEGRATED (MXIM)       50       -2 3/16   -4.2%    $0.83    $1.04
Merrill Lynch & Co. raised Cadence Design Systems Inc.'s rating to "near-
term accumulate" from "near-term neutral," Banc of America Securities
initiated coverage of Excite@Home at "buy."
SoundView Technology Group lifted Electronic Data Systems Corp.'s rating to
"buy" from "hold." SG Cowen & Co. raised Apex's rating to "strong buy" from
"buy."
First Albany Corp. boosted Manugistics Group Inc.'s rating to "buy" from
"neutral."



18:17



Net     Pct       EPS      EPS
                              Close    Change   Change     00E      01E
QUALCOMM INC.  (QCOM)         124 5/8  -24 3/8  -16.4%    $1.02  $1.33
SYNOPSYS INC.  (SNPS)         47 5/8     -3/8    -0.8%    $3.10    $3.62
SYKES ENTERP INC. (SYKE)      25 3/16 +2 3/16    +9.5%    $1.51      NA
Merrill lowered Qualcomm's rating to "near-term neutral" from "near-term
accumulate," while BancBoston Robertson Stephens Inc. reduced Synopsys'
rating to "buy" from "strong buy."
ING Baring Furman Selz LLC cut Sykes Enterprises Inc. to "hold" from
"strong buy."
=======================================================================
THE FEDERAL FILINGS TECHNOLOGY INDEXES
=======================================================================
INDEX                               CLOSE    NET CH    PCT CH    YTD CH
=======================================================================
FEDERAL FILINGS TECHNOLOGY INDEX   29323.84 -1033.51   -3.40%    -2.30%
=======================================================================
COMPUTER & RELATED EQUIPMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Computer                            5493.56  -207.53   -3.64%    -3.96%
Storage                              996.82   -47.97   -4.59%    -0.44%
Peripheral                           149.72    -1.20   -0.80%    -2.60%
Networking                          4844.02  -187.21   -3.72%     2.75%
Electronics & Circuit Boards         608.27    -8.23   -1.34%    -6.82%
=======================================================================
SOFTWARE & PROGRAMMING
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Software                            8202.28  -235.33   -2.79%   -10.34%
Programming & Information Svcs       195.85    -3.38   -1.69%     2.01%
=======================================================================
SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED EQUIPMENT
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Semiconductor                       6695.73  -268.25   -3.85%    10.35%
Semiconductor Equipment              310.33   -17.42   -5.32%    14.28%
=======================================================================
INTERNET                            1827.27   -56.99   -3.02%   -12.62%
=======================================================================
Gee L. Lee
Technology Reporter
(202) 628-7681
e-mail: gee.lee@fedfil.com
Al Hennagir
Technology Reporter
(202)628-9793
e-mail: alan.hennagir@fedfil.com
Note: All earnings estimates provided by Zacks Investment Research.  Index
components are available on request.
FEDERAL FILINGS CONTACTS: (202) 393-7856 for Editorial,
                          (202) 628-8990 for Newswire Sales,
                          (888) FED-FILE for Technical Support
                          http://www.fedfil.com/


18:17


Document ff00000020010805dw1q005fg




 Business; Financial Desk 
 EARNINGS AT&T's Profit Slips on Acquisition Costs, Consumer Sales 

845 words
26 January 2000
Los Angeles Times
LATM
Home Edition
C-3
English
 Copyright 2000 / The Times Mirror Company 

 AT&T Corp. said its fourth-quarter profit fell 16% to $1.84 billion, or 57 cents a share, but topped expectations, as acquisition costs and declining consumer sales offset strong sales of wireless and business communications services. 

 Analysts were expecting earnings of 55 cents for the telecommunications giant, according to research firm First Call/Thomson Financial. Pro forma revenue grew 5.9% to $16.34 billion. 

 AT&T's efforts to move away from its past as the custodian of a shrinking long-distance business to a leader in the high-speed data, cable television and voice market have weighed on its near-term earnings. 

 AT&T also said first-quarter earnings likely will fall below analyst expectations of 58 cents a share--to between 50 cents and 54 cents--because of higher marketing and promotional costs. 

 But investors apparently focused instead on AT&T's commitment to meet its full-year operations earnings goal of $2.10 to $2.15 a share, analysts said. 

 AT&T shares closed up 81 cents at $51.31 on the New York Stock Exchange amid weakness throughout the telecommunications sector. 

 AT&T, which is set to become the No. 1 U.S. cable television operator through its planned purchase of MediaOne Group, also said it may take an unspecified charge in the first half of 2000 for costs related to its acquisitions and its plans to cut $2 billion in costs by the end of the year. 

 At a Glance 

 Other earnings, excluding one-time gains or charges unless noted, include: 

 TELECOMMUNICATIONS: 

 * Qualcomm Inc. said its fiscal second-quarter profit more than tripled to $192 million, or 25 cents a share, a penny better than the average estimate, as revenue rose 19% to $1.12 billion. The company also warned that it may ship fewer chips and cellular phones in the current than the previous quarter. Unofficial "whisper number" estimates ranged from 27 cents to 29 cents. 

 * SBC Communications Inc.'s fourth-quarter profit rose 8.2% to $1.85 billion, or 54 cents a share, in line with estimates, as sales of data and Internet services surged and its wireless business added customers. Revenue increased 7.5% to $12.9 billion at the nation's largest local phone company. 

 OTHER INDUSTRIES: 

 * American Home Products Corp.'s fourth-quarter profit rose less than 1% to $593 million, or 45 cents a share, in line with estimates, as increased research and sales costs ate into revenue from higher drug sales. Revenue rose 7% to $3.47 billion. 

 * Electronic Arts Inc.'s fiscal third-quarter profit rose 28% to $92.9 million, or $1.38 a share, beating forecasts of $1.34, on a 15% rise in sales to $600.7 million. 

 * Merrill Lynch & Co.'s profit more than doubled in the fourth quarter to $764 million, or $1.80 a share, from $359 million, or 86 cents a share, as the stock market rally boosted trading and commissions and a boom in mergers and equity underwriting increased investment banking. The performance beat the $1.45-per-share figure that was the highest of 11 published estimates collected by First Call/Thomson Financial. Net revenue grew 44% to $5.9 billion. 

 * Musicland Stores Corp. said fourth-quarter profit rose 9.5% to $54.8 million, or $1.53 a share. The operator of the Sam Goody, Musicland and Suncoast Motion Picture Co. chains said sales rose 3.2% to $722.6 million. 

 * Procter & Gamble Co. said fiscal second-quarter profit rose 11% to $1.26 billion, or 88 cents a share, as new products and a recovery in Asia boosted sales the most in at least two years. Sales rose 6.6% to $10.59 billion. 

 * Raytheon Co. said fourth-quarter profit plunged 79% to $72 million, or 21 cents a share, because of fewer missile shipments, accounting adjustments, and project delays in its aircraft and construction divisions. Sales fell 8% to $4.83 billion. The earnings were a penny better than analysts' estimate of 22 cents, which was lowered last week after Raytheon issued its third profit warning since September. 

 * TRW Inc. posted a 48% jump in profit to $164.8 million, or $1.33 a share, a penny better than estimates, as revenue climbed 58% to $4.63 billion. The LucasVarity car-brake business, which TRW acquired in May, fueled much of the rise in sales. 

 * Textron Inc., the No. 1 U.S. maker of commercial helicopters and mid-size business jets, said fourth-quarter profit from continuing operations climbed 42% to $170 million, or $1.12 a share, a penny better than estimates. Revenue rose 25% to $3.23 billion. 

 * Xerox Corp said its fourth-quarter profit fell 52% to $294 million, or 41 cents a share, on a 6% decline in revenue to $5.4 billion. The company also said it plans a reorganization and would provide details in a few weeks. 

Document latm000020010808dw1q004h6




 FOCUS - AT&T fourth quarter profits fall 42 percent. 

 By Jessica Hall 
830 words
25 January 2000
18:15
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 25 (Reuters) - Long-distance telephone company AT&T Corp. on Tuesday said its fourth-quarter profits fell, but still topped Wall Street expectations, as acquisition costs and declining consumer sales offset strong sales of wireless and business communications services. 

 AT&T's efforts to move away from its past as the custodian of a shrinking long-distance business to a leader in the high-speed data, cable television and voice market has weighed on its near-term profits. 

 AT&T's net income fell 42 percent, to $1.15 billion, or 36 cents a share, from $1.99 billion, or 75 cents a share, a year ago. 

 Excluding several one-time items, operational earnings were $1.84 billion, or 57 cents a share, down 16 percent from 68 cents a share a year ago. 

 The operating results beat Wall Street expectations of 55 cents a share, according to research firm First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Shares of AT&T, the No. 1 U.S. long-distance telephone company, fell 1-3/16 to 49-5/16 50 on the New York Stock Exchange in early afternoon trading amid weakness throughout the telecommunications sector. 

 Pro forma revenues grew 5.9 percent, to $16.34 billion from $15.42 billion a year ago, driven by higher sales of business voice and data services and strong growth in wireless and computer consulting services. 

 While the company topped Wall Street's estimates in the fourth quarter, it said its first quarter operational profits will fall below expectations because of higher marketing and promotional costs. 

 AT&T expects its first quarter earnings to be 50-54 cents a share, below analysts' expectations of 58 cents a share, according to First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Some analysts said they were surprised that AT&T's stock did not fall further after the first quarter profit warning. Investors apparently shrugged off the first quarter outlook and focused instead on AT&T's commitment to meet its full-year operations earnings goal of $2.10 to $2.15 a share, analysts said. 

 "A good portion of the performance you're going to see overall for AT&T is going to come in the second half of the year," new Chief Financial Officer Chuck Noski told analysts in a conference call. 

 AT&T, which is set to become the No. 1 U.S. cable television operator through its planned purchase of MediaOne Group, also said it may take an unspecified charge in the first half of 2000 for costs related to its acquisitions and its plans to cut $2 billion in costs by the end of the year. 

 AT&T said it may cut workers in the slower-growing segments of its business, such as consumer long distance, while it expands in the more lucrative data, wireless and cable markets. 

 "In 2000, we'll continue to be focused on meeting our financial commitments, scaling our broadband and wireless operations, and accelerating growth throughout our business," AT&T Chairman C. Michael Armstrong said in a statement. 

 During the fourth quarter, sales to businesses grew 6 percent, to $6.3 billion, while sales to consumers fell 4.5, percent to $5.4 billion. 

 Wireless revenues, including AT&T's recent acquisition of Vanguard Cellular Systems, increased 41.6 percent to $2.1 billion. 

 The company added 440,000 new wireless subscribers during the quarter, bringing its total to 12.2 million (including various partnerships). Average revenue per user increased almost 11 percent to $66.80 a month. 

 AT&T plans to launch a tracking stock for its wireless operations this spring and sell up to 19 percent of the company in an initial public offering that could raise as much as $10 billion. 

 Revenues in the broadband unit, which includes its recent acquisition of cable television company Tele-Communications Inc., increased 7.9 percent to $1.5 billion. 

 The cable unit's pro forma operating cash flow fell 6.1 percent in the fourth quarter and 2.3 percent for the full year. 

 The decline is "unacceptable to me. I know it's unacceptable to Dan Somers (the new head of the broadband unit)," Armstrong said. 

 AT&T has spent more than $100 billion to buy cable television companies so it can provide telephone, data, Internet and television services over the cable wires. 

 To jump-start the cable group, AT&T said it would work to consolidate its cable operations, such as call centres and field offices, and tie executive compensation to performance. 

 "They know they have a lot of work to do. There was a more sober assessment of how deep the challenge is to improve the cable profitability," said Richard Klugman, an analyst with Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. 

 (( - Jessica Hall, New York newsroom 212-859-1729)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw1p0a53x




 Xerox Earnings Plunge 52% On Y2K Slowdown, Competition From Printers 

1,069 words
25 January 2000
13:26
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Xerox Corp., which last month shocked Wall Street when it issued a warning that its fourth-quarter profit would fall far short of expectations, Tuesday annnounced a 52% drop in net income for the period. 

 Xerox also said it will take a big restructuring charge in the current quarter as part of an effort to further reduce costs. The company's chief hinted Xerox may outsourcing some operations. 

 Xerox (XRX), the Stamford, Conn.-based copier giant, earned $294 million, or 41 cents a diluted share, compared with $615 million, or 84 cents a diluted share, a year ago. Revenue fell 6% to $5.44 billion from $5.79 billion a year ago. 

 Xerox was hit hard in recent months by year 2000 concerns, competition in the copier and printer markets and a currency devaluation and economic weakness in Brazil. The warning last month was a blow to investors already reeling from disappointing earnings. 

 Xerox Tuesday did day digital multifunction products enjoyed "record" results on strong sales of its DocuColor 12 and Document Centre ColorSeries 50 products and significant growth in laser and inkjet printers sold through resellers. Revenue from digital products rose to 57% of total revenue from 52% a year ago. 

 Still, the company called the results a "major disappointment" and said it will take a substantial restructuring charge, most likely in the first quarter. The company didn't detail the scope of the restructuring or the size of the anticipated charge. "The exact size of the restructuring charge will depend on decisions we'll be making in the next couple of weeks," said Chief Executive Rick Thoman. The charge will probably amount to "hundreds of millions of dollars," he said, but will nonetheless be less than the $1 billion Xerox spent to reorganize operations in 1998. 

 Chief Financial Officer Barry Romeril said earnings for 2000 should come in flat compared with 1999. Some "modest" savings due to the restructuring is "implicit" in the outlook for flat earnings growth in 2000, Romeril said, but that guidance is tentative because the company has yet to precisely quantify the bottom-line impact of those cost-saving efforts. "Internally, we are planning on some growth" in earnings for this year, Romeril said. "Our intent is to make those savings come through to the bottom line." 

 Now, the company said, the impact of Y2K concerns is largely behind it; results at Fuji Xerox have improved and there are signs of some strengthening in Brazil. Those positive developments will become significant, especially during the second half of 2000, the company said. 

 Facing increasingly aggressive competition from Canon Inc. and others, Xerox last month cited "competitive pricing pressures" for the fourth-quarter slowdown. 

 Thoman has said he is "absolutely convinced" his strategy to turn the company around, which involves emphasizing its fastest-growing business sectors such as high-end printer copiers and document-management outsourcing, will eventually bear fruit. But he added that it may take until the second half of this year for improvement to show. 

 Thoman last month said Y2K-fearful customers delaying purchases on major printer-copiers were the biggest single reason for the shortfall. Another problem was that a plan to cut administrative costs by consolidating billing staff blew up in the company's face, resulting in costs to fix problems that resulted, and delayed receipts. The company also blamed a higher level of bad debt, which analysts say was exacerbated by disorganized billing staff during the transition. Troubles in Brazil, where Xerox has done well by selling to government buyers, also hit the company hard. 

 Though the company has played down competitive pressures as a reason for its troubles, analysts believe that inroads made by its aggressive rival, Japan's Canon, are at least partly to blame. Canon has been chipping away at Xerox's lead in the lower-end digital-copier market, and plans next year to begin selling a high-volume printer of the type used in copy shops, representing Xerox's main challenge in that market niche. 

 Among its cost-cutting plans, Thoman Tuesday said the company will consider "centralizing" core operations and outsourcing some of its manufacturing capability. Job cuts would almost certainly result from those measures, but Thoman declined to elaborate. Xerox will announce the efforts in late March or early April. 

 Xerox management is scrutinizing "everything" for potential cost-saving opportunity, Thoman said, except within its research and development and direct-sales operations. Indeed, the company has already begun swallowing some tough medicine. Executives said Xerox eliminated its employee profit-sharing plan and sharply scaled back year-end bonuses, if not cut them out completely. 

 "My expectation is that there is a lot going on there, not just a little belt-tightening," said Gibboney Huske, an analyst with Credit Suisse First Boston in New York. She speculated about the potential for a partial consolidation of the company's most important East Coast offices, split between Rochester, N.Y., and corporate headquarters in Stamford, Conn., as well as the outsourcing of manufacturing. 

 The last time the company made moves on this scale was in April 1998, just after Thoman took office as Xerox's new CEO. The company eliminated 9,000 jobs and took a $1 billion charge to trim costs that at the time were much higher than those of its competitors. 

 Thoman was guarded about the first half of 2000, noting that although the company has completed its sales-force reorganization, it will take a few months for its reps to get up to speed. "That argues for caution for the first two quarters," he said. 

 Thoman is looking at a product pipeline richer than in previous years, targeting businesses growing faster than Xerox's older, more-established segments, such as its bread-and-butter copiers. 

 Thoman has said that by the end of 2000, Xerox will derive 40% of its revenue from businesses growing faster than 10% annually. Those speedy segments include document-management outsourcing and color printers - newly enhanced by Xerox's $950 million purchase of Tektronix Inc.'s color-printing unit - a market now dominated by Hewlett-Packard Co. Revenue from Xerox's color-priting segment should "approach $3 billion" for 2000, said Thoman, reaching "double-digit growth" by the middle of this year. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dw1p00tuw




 Xerox CEO Puts Reorg Charges In 'Hundreds Of Millions' 

1,026 words
25 January 2000
16:27
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 By Scott Eden 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Xerox Corp. (XRX), hurt by Y2K spending freezes, increased competition and the reorganization of its sales staff, reported a 52% decline in fourth-quarter net income, and said it will take a big restructuring charge later in the first quarter to further reduce costs. 

 "The exact size of the restructuring charge will depend on decisions we'll be making in the next couple of weeks," said Chief Executive Rick Thoman in a conference call Tuesday. The charge will probably amount to "hundreds of millions of dollars," he said, but will nonetheless be less than the $1 billion Xerox spent to reorganize operations in 1998. 

 Xerox repeated the outlook for 2000 it provided in December, when the company shocked Wall Street with the second severe profit warning in a row. At that time, Xerox said first quarter results could suffer declines equal in magnitude to those of the fourth quarter. Not until the second half of the year does Xerox predict a return to "meaningful growth." 

 During the conference call, Chief Financial Officer Barry Romeril said earnings for 2000 should come in flat compared with 1999. Some "modest" savings due to the restructuring is "implicit" in the outlook for flat earnings growth in 2000, Romeril said, but that guidance is tentative because the company has yet to precisely quantify the bottom-line impact of those cost-saving efforts. 

 Analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial have a per-share earnings target for this year of $1.90. In 1999 Xerox earned $1.96 a share. 

 "Internally, we are planning on some growth" in earnings for the full-year 2000, Romeril said. "Our intent is to make those savings come through to the bottom line." 

 In midday trading Monday, Xerox shares moved at 22 1/8, up 3/8, or 1.7%. Volume reached 3 million shares, compared with average daily turnover of 7.2 million. 

 Before Tuesday's opening bell, Xerox, Stamford, Conn., said it earned $294 million, or 41 cents a share, down from the year-ago period's $615 million, or 84 cents a share. The company's bottom line came in a penny ahead of Wall Street's diminished expectations, as compiled by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 Revenue slid 6% to $5.44 billion from $5.79 billion a year earlier. Excluding the effects of weak European currency, revenue fell 3% from the 1998 fourth quarter. 

 The litany of complaints Xerox enumerated in its December profitwarning did the expected damage. Those include equipment spending freezes by clients ahead of Y2K, economic recession in Brazil, stepped-up competition from rival copier makers and a massive sales force reorganization. 

 Among its cost-cutting plans, Xerox CEO Thoman said the company will consider "centralizing" core operations and outsourcing some of its manufacturing capability. Job cuts would almost certainly result from those measures, but Thoman, in a later interview with Dow Jones, declined to elaborate on the company's plans. Xerox will release in late March or early April a definitive announcement regarding its restructuring strategy, Thoman said. 

 Xerox management is scrutinizing "everything" for potential cost-saving opportunity, Thoman said, except within its research and development and direct-sales operations. Indeed, the company has already begun swallowing some tough medicine. During the conference call, executives said Xerox eliminated its employee profit-sharing plan and sharply scaled back year-end bonuses, if not cut them out completely. 

 "My expectation is that there is a lot going on there, not just a little belt-tightening," said Gibboney Huske, an analyst with Credit Suisse First Boston in New York. She speculated about the potential for a partial consolidation of the company's most important East Coast offices, split between Rochester, N.Y., and corporate headquarters in Stamford, Conn., as well as the outsourcing of manufacturing. 

 The last time the company made moves on this scale was in April 1998, just after Thoman took office as Xerox's new CEO. The company eliminated 9,000 jobs and took a $1 billion charge to trim costs that at the time were much higher than those of its competitors. 

 Thoman was guarded about the first half of 2000, noting that although the company has completed its sales-force reorganization, it will take a few months for its reps to get up to speed. "That argues for caution for the first two quarters," he said. 

 Since Thoman took over at Xerox - after a stint as one of Louis Gerstner's top lieutenants at International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) - Xerox has worked to realign its army of salespeople, which at one point numbered 14,000, in the face of intense competition from Japanese copier companies, most notably Canon Inc. Instead of 38 geographic regions with one group of reps selling copiers and another group selling services, the company's sales force is now divided among six industry segments, with reps allowed to sell devices as well as services. 

 As 2000 moves into summer, however, Thoman said to look forward to a product pipeline richer than in previous years, targeting businesses growing faster than Xerox's older, more-established segments, such as its bread-and-butter copiers. 

 Thoman has said that by the end of 2000, Xerox will derive 40% of its revenue from businesses growing faster than 10% annually. Those speedy segments include document-management outsourcing and color printers - newly enhanced by Xerox's $950 million purchase of Tektronix Inc.'s color-printing unit - a market now dominated by Hewlett-Packard Co. (HWP). 

 Revenue from Xerox's color-priting segment should "approach $3 billion" for 2000, said Thoman, reaching "double-digit growth" by the middle of this year. 


Beyond its heightened focus on high-growth areas, Xerox expects the
"environmental" factors that punished its financial results in the
fourth quarter to ease in the coming months. Economically troubled
Brazil is rebounding, executives said. The region, which saw 1999 sales
fall $700 million from the year-ago period, now accounts for 5% of
Xerox's total revenue, down from 8% in 1998.
   -Scott Eden; Dow Jones Newswires; 201-938-5253


Document dj00000020010805dw1p00e76




 Sweet Harmony: Time Warner, EMI To Join Music Units In 20 Billion Euros Venture --- With AOL Deal, Accord Promises to Speed Move Of Industry to the Web --- Another Blow to British Pop   

 By Charles Goldsmith and Martin Peers   
Staff Reporters
1,746 words
24 January 2000
The Wall Street Journal Europe
WSJE
1
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

 LONDON -- The beat goes on, but the number of drummers is rapidly dwindling.   

 Time Warner Inc. and Britain's EMI Group PLC are expected Monday to announce a plan to join their music assets in a joint venture with a market value of about 20 billion euros. The deal would reduce to just four the number of big global music groups -- and leave only Bertelsmann's BMG under European control.   

 Marrying acts ranging from Madonna to Frank Sinatra, the deal vaults the new Anglo-U.S. venture alongside Seagram Corp.'s Universal Music Group as the world's largest music company -- whose market share of more than 25% is sure to receive fierce regulatory scrutiny.   

 The deal comes during a period of rapid change in the music business as well as a time when corporations of every stripe are rushing to catch the electronic commerce bandwagon. Just two weeks ago, Time Warner stunned the media industry by agreeing to be acquired by America Online Inc., a once-tiny Internet service whose soaring stock price allowed it to bag an elephant.   

 The Warner-EMI deal had been under negotiation for several months preceding the AOL-Time Warner accord, but it boosts the rationale of the earlier blockbuster. AOL and Time Warner said earlier this month that a big advantage of their deal was that it would accelerate the development of digital music on the Internet, an area where EMI has been particularly aggressive. Though the music industry once saw the Internet as a threat, because of copyright issues, the big labels are developing secure ways to distribute music online and now see the Internet as a huge opportunity.   

 The transaction to create a joint venture called Warner EMI Music follows by little more than a year the acquisition of PolyGram NV's Polygram Music Group by Seagram's Universal Music Group. The deal calls for Time Warner to pay more than 1 billion euros -- GBP 1 (1.63 euros) a share directly to EMI shareholders -- for control of the new venture; Time Warner will have six directors on the board to EMI's five.   

 EMI confirmed Sunday that it "was in the final stages of discussions" about merging its music operations with Time Warner in a "50-50 joint venture structure." The transaction "represents an opportunity to establish the world's premier music group and to create very considerable value for shareholders of both companies." The EMI statement said a full announcement was expected in London Monday morning.   

 EMI is the world's third-largest music company and Warner is No. 4. EMI's labels include Virgin, home of the Rolling Stones and the Spice Girls, and Capitol, whose artists include the Beastie Boys and Robbie Williams. Warner's labels include Atlantic Records, home of Jewel and Tori Amos; Elektra, home of Missy Elliott and Metallica; and Warner Bros. Records, whose artists include Eric Clapton.   

 It remains to be seen, however, whether the announcement triggers any countermoves by other big players in the music industry. The head of Bertelsmann AG of Germany, Thomas Middelhoff, said last week that he wants his BMG music unit to be the world's largest -- leading to speculation that it may bid for either EMI or Sony Corp.'s Sony Music Entertainment. Talks between Bertelsmann and EMI broke down last year over price, control and other issues.   

 People familiar with Bertelsmann's strategy said that the company still sought to boost its music clout, perhaps through a linkup with either Sony or Universal that stopped short of a full merger. A Bertelsmann spokesman said that if the proposed Time Warner EMI deal does occur, "It shows that every player in the market is trying to strengthen its position and Bertelsmann is also trying to do that. There are still plenty of opportunities for Bertelsmann."   

 Sony Corp. isn't looking to sell Sony Music, widely regarded as the best-run music company. Whether it would be willing to enter a joint venture with a company like Bertelsmann isn't clear, although people close to the company say Sony isn't likely to want to share control of its assets.   

 Time Warner and EMI will create a music-industry behemoth that brings under one roof artists such as Warner's Madonna and the Red Hot Chili Peppers, and EMI's the Rolling Stones and Garth Brooks as well as its Beatles catalogue. Given that Warner also has such so-called dinosaur rockers as the Eagles and Led Zeppelin in its fold, the new venture is particularly strong in classic rock -- which can now reach a new generation through the Internet.   

 The deal may resolve strategic problems for both companies. Warner Music has historically been strong in U.S.-based acts but weak overseas, while EMI's British heritage has long made it a powerhouse in the U.K. and Europe, but weaker in the U.S.   

 The deal includes both recorded music and music publishing, but does not include EMI's minority stake in U.K. book and record retailer HMV Group and its stake in German music channel Viva, say people familiar with the transaction. EMI would still be listed on the London Stock Exchange.   

 Time Warner President Richard Parsons and EMI Chairman Eric Nicoli will be co-chairmen of the joint venture. Warner Music Chairman Roger Ames would be chief executive and EMI Music head Ken Berry will be chief operating officer, said people familiar with the deal.   

 Owing to the proposed joint venture's combined market share, the deal would require regulatory approval in the U.S., Europe and perhaps elsewhere, say industry officials.   

 The estimated 1998 global market share for today's Big Five music companies was Universal, including Polygram, at 21%; Sony at 17%; EMI at 14%; Warner Music at 13%; and BMG at 11%, according to a survey compiled late last year by London-based Market Tracking International Ltd. and the magazine Music Business International. Based on this estimate, the Time Warner-EMI venture, with a 27% market share, would soar past Universal.   

 In the U.S., the world's largest music market, the overall market shares of Universal and the new venture would be neck-and-neck at about 26% each, according to industry-monitoring firm SoundScan.   

 Both Warner Music and EMI have been struggling to develop enough new hit artists, however, and both have suffered a severe erosion in market share in recent years. In the U.S., Time Warner's market share for current-release albums slipped to 13.7% in 1999 from 20.9% in 1996, according to SoundScan. EMI's current album share has also fallen. The decline isn't likely to be reversed anytime soon.   

 For EMI, the deal would cap a three-year period in which it has been the constant source of takeover rumors following its 1996 demerger from rental company Thorn PLC. That bid speculation drove up EMI's share price to levels above what most suitors -- including Seagram -- thought it was worth. The structure of the deal expected to be announced today allows Time Warner to take control without paying such a high price. As a result, it is conceivable another bidder could emerge for EMI, particularly if EMI's shares fall more than GBP 1, the control-premium amount. As part of the deal, EMI will announce measures designed to support its stock price, say people familiar with the transaction.   

 People close to the situation said Sunday that rival bidders would have a hard time matching the cost savings expected to be generated from the merger, estimated at 400 million euros after three years. These people also said the cultures of the two companies and their geographic strengths also meshed better than any other possible combination.   

 Last year, EMI installed as its new chairman Mr. Nicoli, formerly boss of United Biscuits PLC; his selection at first disappointed many industry insiders, who expected a music-industry heavyweight, but EMI's share price has rallied under Mr. Nicoli from a 52-week low of 341 pence to a current value of 648 pence, down 46 pence on Friday owing to an investment bank's profit warning. Time Warner shares closed Friday at $91.125 (89.65 euros), up $3.328125.   

 Mr. Nicoli has moved aggressively in striking deals with new-media companies, including a licensing arrangement with Internet compilation company musicmaker.com. Last autumn, EMI blazed new ground by becoming the first music-industry major to release a major artist's album first on the Internet: David Bowie's album ". . . hours" was available for downloading at retail price two weeks before it hit record stores, selling about 1,000 copies this way.   

 In the first half of its current fiscal year, ended Sept. 30, EMI's pretax profit was up 9.9% at GBP 75.4 million excluding new-media ventures, exceptional items and HMV-connected losses. Including nearly GBP 25 million of new-media licensing income, EMI's first-half pretax profit was up 72% at GBP 86.5 million.   

 Messrs. Ames and Berry appear to have been major catalysts for the deal. The Trinidad-born Mr. Ames, 50 years old, and the British Mr. Berry, 47, are long-time friends, and, say associates, are both very globally focused in contrast to some U.S. music executives.   

 Mr. Berry tried to recruit Mr. Ames to EMI when the latter left Polygram after its 1998 takeover by Seagram. Instead, Mr. Ames joined Warner Music International as president in April, succeeding to the top job after former Warner Music co-chairmen Robert Daly and Terry Semel quit over the summer.   

 The deal nevertheless would weaken Europe's clout in the music industry, given that Time Warner would control the new venture. Two years ago, three of the top six music companies had European parents, but the PolyGram takeover and, now, EMI's proposed joint-venture deal, would make Bertelsmann the only one.   

 For Britain, the EMI deal would mark another blow to the country's musical pride. British acts once dominated the U.S. singles chart, but last year British artists nearly dropped out of Billboard's Hot 100 altogether -- saved only by the Spice Girls' "Goodbye" at No. 99.   

Document wsje000020010814dw1o0017a




 Analysts' spin on EMI hits stock.(Brief Article) 

179 words
24 January 2000
Hollywood Reporter
HLYW
22
ISSN: 0018-3660; Volume 361; Issue 25
English
 Copyright 2000 Gale Group Inc. All rights reserved. COPYRIGHT 2000 VNU Business Media 

 EMI Group Plc.'s shares fell 6.6% on Friday after analysts cut profit forecasts and said industry figures show that the music giant is losing market share in the United States and Europe. 

 EMI shares fell 46 pence to 648 pence ($10.69). 

 EMI, the world's third-largest music company, saw its U.S. market share fall during the first half of 1999 to 10% from 13%. Despite EMI CEO Eric Nicoli's prediction that market share will rise in the second half, analyst ABN Amro said figures from industry groups like Soundscan don't support that contention. 

 ABN Amro analyst Neil Carter said he expects EMI to issue a profitwarning as early as this week. In a note to investors, ABN Amro cut its forecast for pretax profit 18% to [pounds]195 million ($321 million) for the year ending in March. 

FULL TEXT VNU eMedia, Inc. THIS IS THE FULL TEXT: COPYRIGHT 2000 VNU Business Media Subscription: $175.00 per year. Published daily (5 times a week).

Document hlyw000020010806dw1o0020e




 RESEARCH ALERT-ABN AMRO cuts EMI profit forecasts. 

217 words
21 January 2000
11:03
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, Jan 21 (Reuters) - ABN AMRO said on Friday it cut its pre-tax profit estimates on music company EMI Group Plc  and repeated a "sell" rating on the stock. 

 In a research note, analysts at the investment bank said they had cut their fiscal 2000 pre-tax profit estimate by 18 percent to 195 million pounds - excluding a one-off 25 million pounds gain on a deal with musicmaker.com. Their 2001 figure was cut by seven percent. 

 They said they believed the company was likely to issue a profit warning by the end of January. 

 "Industry statistics indicate that EMI has lost further market share in the key markets of the U.S. and Europe," the note said. 

 "Japan, which was the saviour at the interim stage primarily due to Hikara Utada selling nine million albums, has been strong, but not by enough to make up the slack in the rest of the world." 

 EMI shares - which had climbed to a near-record peak of 735 pence earlier this month - dropped 34 pence or 4.9 percent to 660p by 1055 GMT. 

 ((David Holmes London Newsroom +44 171 542 4367 fax +44 171 542 2120, uk.equities.news@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010820dw1l020es


 Business 
 IN THE MONEY 

 Bill Tucker, Terry Keenan, Daryn Kagan 
9,132 words
21 January 2000
16:00
CNNfn: In The Money
ITHM
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 BILL TUCKER, CNN ANCHOR:  When good isn`t good enough: How investors are becoming more particular about what`s considered good earnings news. Are strong earnings enough to support prices at these levels? 

 TERRY KEENAN, CNN ANCHOR:  Japan a hot market?  We`re not talking the 80`s; we`re talking last year.  But is it too late to fish for good investments in the Far East? 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP, PRICELINE.COM COMMERCIAL) 

 WILLIAM SHATNER:  We`ve got a great big convoy rocking through the night, yes.  We`ve got a great big convoy, ain`t she a beautiful sight? 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 TUCKER:  And believe it or not, this is supposed to help sales. A talk with William Shatner about how he`s helping beam up Priceline`s profile. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP, "STAR TREK") 

 WILLIAM SHATNER, "CAPTAIN KIRK":  It`s all right, Spock. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 ANNOUNCER:  From CNN and CNNfn, this is IN THE MONEY with Terry Keenan, Bill Tucker and Daryn Kagan. 

 TUCKER:  Hello, everyone, and welcome to IN THE MONEY.  I`m Bill Tucker. 

 KEENAN:  And hello from Daryn Kagan and myself.  I`m Terry Keenan. 

 If you think this week has been a bad one for your portfolio, you might be right.  It all depends on where you have your money.  While the Nasdaq closed last night at an all-time high, the Dow has been hammered every single day, this week.  We`re now down more than 400 points from the high we hit last Friday.  In fact, the Dow is now down about 200 points on the year so far.      TUCKER:  That`s right, and today we`re going to take a closer look at why some of the tiptop earnings numbers are not enough to keep stock prices afloat.  This morning, we`ll be speaking with the man who tracks all of the earnings for First Call. 

 KEENAN:  Plus, we`re going to talk with an expert about how to read an annual report.  Those missives are starting to be mailed out right now. 

 TUCKER:  And we`ll keep tabs on Proctor & Gamble as it ponders a possible buy-out of Warner-Lambert and maybe American Home Products as well. 

 KEENAN:  And the word there`s some concern, in fact, that Proctor & Gamble will indeed launch a bid for one or both of those drug is weighing on the stock, and that`s one reason that the Dow is down so much. 

 Let`s take a look at where we stand right now, about an hour and a half into the trading day.  And this is an options expiration day, when some options on future contracts, including options on individual stocks, expire.  Right now, the Dow is off its low of the session, but we`re still down about 49 points, holding just above that 11300 level. The Nasdaq Composite`s been all over the place, but it is well off its best level of the day, despite some better-than-expected earnings numbers, yesterday, and of course we had a record close and record volume on the Nasdaq, yesterday.  Today, volume continues to be heavy at the Nasdaq 

 TUCKER:  Not a lot of action in the bond mark, today, Terry.  Up 1/32 in terms of price, the yield holding steady at 6.73. 

 Well, Terry mentioned that we`re seeing a lot of activity in Proctor & Gamble, that stock down better than $5 a share.  What is interesting is that we have more issues going down in price than going up in price on both of the exchanges, today. 

 Let`s begin with a tour of the markets and find out where things are. We`re going to be going to Susan Lisovicz at the New York Stock Exchange and Charles Molineaux at the Nasdaq-Amex marketsite, but let`s start with Susan down on the floor. 

 Go ahead, Susan. 

 SUSAN LISOVICZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Hi, Bill. 

 Well, yes, it was just one week ago that the Dow hit its all-time high, but this week has really set a very negative tone, and at this point we have four straight sell-offs.  The Dow down right now about 52 points, much of that, as you mentioned, accounted for by P&G`s big loss. Much of the Dow 30, really, not doing much of anything, but P&G down seven points; that is really dragging the Dow lower. 

 Let`s mention a few stocks that are making some moves, today. Lucent Technology`s reporting after the bell, yesterday, the nation`s most widely-held stock.  Everyone is looking at this stock, because this was a real darling on Wall Street.  It warned a couple of weeks ago that it was going to have a disappointing quarter and it sure did. The stock took a plunge two weeks ago.  It`s up about a half a point right now; apparently investors really did the damage two weeks ago. It was a penny shy of what the lowered expectations were, and there was a lowered -- a downgrade from CS First Boston on that stock. 

 Gateway, a tech stock, another tech stock, having a completely- different day.  Its rallying up three.  It had a tough quarter as well. It`s net income for the fourth quarter fell five percent, but some analysts, listen, this was just a one-time kind of thing.  It`s rallying. 

 Airborne Freight:  This is a shipping company.  Certainly, fuel expenses one of the big expenses for a company like that.  It says it`s going to be hurt by the higher cost of oil, and indeed transports are down about 38 right now.  They`ve been hurt all week.  Airborne Freight down more than one. 

 And finally, Electronic Data Systems.  EDS is the stock symbol on that stock, having a great day.  It`s having a great day.  It`s up four. Merrill Lynch has upgraded this stock to buy from accumulate and raised its price target on this stock to 90 from 74.  The analysts say EDS` turnaround is far along, and they like the stock, and so do investors today. 

 Negative breadth and, again, heavy volume on the Big Board: 460 million shares traded with just 90 minutes into the session. 

 Now taking a look at how more tech stocks are doing, I`m turning it over to Charles Molineaux at the Nasdaq. 

 Hey, Charles. 

 CHARLES MOLINEAUX, CNN CORRESPONDENT:  Hi, Susan. 

 Well, tech stocks are really looking pretty bullish, this morning.  We saw the Nasdaq charge all the way up to a nice pop at the start of the day, but it`s now down by about -- well, actually, no, now we see the Nasdaq has come back up again.  This is volatility. We`re up by eight point right now at 4197 on the Composite on very active volume.  We`ve got 637 million shares traded and we`re nowhere near half way through the trading day already, so this is definitely another busy day.  Of course, we had a record for volume, yesterday: 1.8 billion shares traded. 

 Take a look at a couple of these talks.  We`ve got PMC-Sierra`s up by about $15 right now after rolling out it`s earnings.  PMC makes networking equipment to speed up Internet traffic.  It reports it made 29 cents a share; that is better than the market expected.  It also announced a two-for-one stock split.  Lehman Brothers has raised its earning projects for PMC for all of this year. 

 Inktomi`s up by $5 after it lost less than expected in it`s latest quarter: two cents a share.  The expectation had been for losses twice as big.  Inktomi now says it controls 40 percent of the Internet search market.  Morgan Stanley Dean Witter has raised its price target for Inktomi from $72 a share to 130. 

 Sun Microsystems is off by $1.50.  It made 21 cents a share; that`s better than the market had expected.  Its revenues were up by 27 percent.  Trouble is, some investors may have bought the stock expecting a blowout quarter; nonetheless, Credit Suisse First Boston has raised its sales projection and earnings forecast for Sun, and it`s reiterating a buy rating on Sun stock.  Nonetheless, it is off by $1.50. 

 Lam Research, on the other hand, did report a blow-out quarter. Lamb Manufactures semiconductor equipment; that is, machinery to make computer chips.  It earned 98 cents a share; that is 26 cents better than expected.  Revenues were up by 103 percent, and Lam says it`s seeing improved productivity and a good effect from efforts to cut costs.  It is up by $3 dollars a share, so we`re looking at a nice, dramatic performance for a number of those stocks.  Actually, we see Lam down right now.  Lam is now down by $3 a share, a little correction there. 

 But the Nasdaq Composite continues to look good, and a pull away. We are now up by $9 at 4199, just under that 4200 mark -- Bill, Terry. 

 TUCKER:  All right, thanks, Charles. 

 KEENAN:  Well, the earnings season has not been a kind one to shareholders of Lucent Technologies.  The company that is owned by more Americans than any other rocked the street again, last night, reporting earnings that were a penny short of already-lowered expectations.  The demand -- the damage, that is, to Lucent shares is clear in this picture.  Ever since Lucent made its profit warning two weeks ago, it`s stock has lost a third of its value. 

 As Fred Katayama reports, now analysts are digging deeper into Lucent`s books. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 FRED KATAYAMA, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  Some investors say Lucent`s accounting practices look murky.  Could the bluest of blue chips, the spin-off of AT&T and the company behind the illustrious Bell Labs, share something in common with tarnished names like Waste Management, Cendant and Tyco? 

 Bookkeeping questions have helped pressure Lucent`s sizzling stock at a time when the company warned Wall Street about its latest earnings. Lucent already faces two class-action shareholder lawsuits that contend the company misled investors about its financial condition. 

 The center for Financial Research and Analysis says the company is stretching acceptable accounting practices to the limits.  For example, Lucent changed its accounting method for pensions, a move the center say overstated the company`s earnings by $283 million, or nine cents a share, to $1.22.  An analyst at the center says he`s concerned that Lucent`s underlying telecom equipment business is not as strong as reported.      But another analyst says Lucent is following the rules. 

 DAVID TOUNG, ARGUS RESEARCH:  There is no way to make numbers look good this quarter, first of all.  Second of all, I think there --there is a certain amount of managing the numbers for almost every company. 

 KATAYAMA:  These worries come just a little over a year after the Securities and Exchange Commission launched a campaign against improper financial reporting.  The SEC is concerned many companies so fixated on meeting Wall Street`s estimates are managing earnings. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 KATAYAMA:  A Lucent spokesman defended the company`s accounting methods, saying, quote, "we`re very comfortable with the appropriateness of our accounting practices."  When the company changed its accounting method for pensions, regarding that subject, he said, quote, "we went from ultra-conservative to conservative."  And even the private Center for Financial Research contends that what Lucent is doing is not illegal -- Terry, Bill. 

 KEENAN:  So, Fred, when did Lucent change its way of accounting for its pension gains? 

 KATAYAMA:  Well, it changed it earlier last year, and basically the change was this:  They used to account for its -- the returns on its pension assets by basically amortizing it over a strict five-year period, those gains and losses. 

 KEENAN:  Spreading it out. 

 KATAYAMA:  Exactly.  So, you have a fixed number each year.  But instead, under its new method, it will now estimate for itself its rate of return, meaning that those numbers can fluctuate, and critics think that way it could possibly manage its numbers better.  But I should also add, this is a method that many other U.S. companies also currently use, so Lucent is not the only one. 

 KEENAN:  And it`s also a byproduct of this bull market, because these pension funds are flush with cash because the stock market`s been doing so well. 

 KATAYAMA:  Exactly.  So, in fact, Lucent`s spokesman told me that this is a way of managing our assets better, not managing earnings. 

 KEENAN:  Thanks, Fred, Fred Katayama. 

 TUCKER:  Well, for more on whether the latest strong quarterly earnings are enough to keep markets at these levels, we are joined now by Chuck Hill, director of research at First Call. 

 He joins us from Boston. 

 And Chuck, welcome back. 

 CHUCK HILL, FIRST CALL:  Good morning. 

 TUCKER:  Let`s pick up on the theme that we were actually just talking about with Fred, in terms of managing earnings.  To probably a very great degree, it is not unusual, nor perhaps unacceptable, to see companies manage earnings.  Are you seeing more and more of that these days, Chuck? 

 HILL:  Well, I can`t speak for what`s going on behind-the-scenes. The auditors are the ones that have to track that.  But what we are seeing is more pushing the envelope, where companies are trying to entice analysts to exclude more things that they throw into the pot as unusual or whatever. 

 I mean, what used to be called a restructuring charge now encompasses a much wider range of things than it did before.  And there`s other items added to the list. 

 So in that sense, I think there are -- there is this pushing the envelope on trying to get higher earnings. 

 KEENAN:  Overall, how does the earning season look so far? 

 HILL:  It is a terrific quarter to earnings.  We are going to end up about 21 percent or so above last year`s fourth quarter for the S&P 500 earnings.  That`s down slightly from the 22.7 percent in the third quarter, but you have to remember there were some easy comparisons in some major sectors earlier in the year. 

 So, as we are reverting back to more normal comparisons, to be up here at 21 percent is really outstanding. 

 TUCKER:  So you like the quality of earnings that you are seeing so far? 

 HILL:  Well, I`m talking about the numbers.  I mean, you know, there are some issues with the quality, but the numbers are good, and the quality is good in the sense of this comparison issue that we are not doing it by having some depressed numbers to compare it to the way we were earlier.  But is there some inflation at some companies on these issues we were just talking about?  Sure. 

 KEENAN:  And let me ask you then, just quickly, about that because, you know, we used to hear of underfunded pension plans, now they are overfunded.  But if the stock market went down sharply, this could be a double-whammy for a lot of investors, right? 

 HILL:  You bet.  But there will probably be a bit of a lag factor on the pension fund issue, because they are overfunded.  They may have cut back on the contributions or even taken some back, but they are probably still in the high side.  So you have a bit of a cushion, but down the road, why, absolutely. 

 TUCKER:  All right, Chuck, thanks a lot for being here this morning. Chuck Hill of First Call.  See you again soon, Chuck. 

 KEENAN:  OK, coming up next on IN THE MONEY:  Translation, please. Yes, they`re in English, but what do they really mean?  How to get the information you need when you read all those annual reports. 

 TUCKER:  And we`ll take a look at our "Stock of the Day." Getting in on a networking stock when it`s down on the market.  Galileo Technology, the question is:  Is it a buy? 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 TUCKER:  Attention, soccer fans, do we have a deal for you. According to Reuters, the soccer executives of a Romanian soccer team executed an interesting promotional deal this week.  The team getting a pig and a calf in a sponsorship deal.  The pig, apparently, was slaughtered and sent with other food to the team`s winter training sessions.  Talk about eating your profits.  Cash-strapped teams in Romania are often forced to be a bit creative with their deals, Terry. In fact, another paper was reporting that last year a deal was made swapping a goaltender for a truckload of fireworks. 

 KEENAN:  I hope it wasn`t that cute little pig that we showed in that picture. 

 TUCKER:  Well, it wasn`t Babe, OK?  It was bacon. 

 KEENAN:  Well, the on-again, off-again journey to the U.S. by Elian Gonzalez`s grandmothers is apparently on again, 

 TUCKER:  And hundreds of people are being evacuated in Michigan. For the latest on these two stories, we go to Daryn in Atlanta. 

 Good morning, Daryn. 

 DARYN KAGAN, CNN ANCHOR:  Bill and Terry, good morning to you. 

 First let`s go to Michigan, where several schools are closed and hundreds of homes stand empty in Flint, Michigan, this morning.  They were evacuated in the wee hours, after a propane train car caught fire at a nearby railyard, raising fears of an explosion.  The tanker started leaking propane and burning early this morning.  Officials say it was linked to other tanker cars carrying thousands of gallons of propane.  A two-mile stretch of interstate also was closed. 

 And now to the Elian Gonzalez story.  The National Council of Churches says it expects its delegation to return from Cuba today with the two grandmothers of Elian Gonzalez.  A recording from the Council`s communications office says the group is expected to arrive in New York at midafternoon.  The organization`s three representatives have been holding talks in Havana with the boy`s family and Cuban officials. 

 As recently as this morning, the trip was off.  The grandmothers have been issued visas to come to the U.S.  Their hope is to take the 6-year-old back to Cuba. 

 The boy`s relatives in Miami said they would welcome the visit, saying they want to show the grandmothers how well Elian is doing.      The first official reading of public opinion in campaign 2000 will be taken in just three days.  The voters and the candidates are gearing up for Monday`s precinct caucuses in Iowa.  About 10 percent of the state`s nearly two million registered voters will participate. 

 Democratic hopeful Bill Bradley is pouring on the campaign steam in Iowa today, the day after he disclosed that he has had four minor episodes of a recurrent heart condition involving an irregular heartbeat.  Bradley said last night, the episodes required no medical treatment.  He also said they had no impact on his campaign schedule. 

 The snow is falling, and people are finding different ways to get around town.  For the Eastern U.S. is bracing for bitter, frigid cold. Windchill advisories are in place from Caribou, Maine, to as far south as North Carolina.  Sub-zero wind chills as low as minus 40 were predicted in some areas. 

 It is the first month of the new year, and your mailboxes might be bulging with annual reports.  With that in mind, I am going to do something you don`t see every day on television, I am going to read you part of one company`s annual report. 

 Now, before you go ahead and flick the station, we want you to hear this: Fast food chain Jack-in-the-Box took a very interesting approach to its report. 

 And here it goes: "Pundit and news hound will have a hard time recalling a year like 1999.  When even the government found itself flush with a surplus that would have made Howard Hughes blush. Impeachment proceedings and threats of inflation did nothing to dampen the mood of the nation.  As IRA shelters, 401(k)s grew fatter than Michael Dell`s annual raise." 

 How to read your annual report is the focus of today`s "IN THE MONEY 101." 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 (voice-over):  They are heavy, done read well, recap a year old. They are sent free to investors because they would never be sold. They come in the mail with a familiar retort:  My gosh, it`s so big, my stock`s annual report. 

 The numbers are large, the words sometimes long.  If only it could be read like a song.  But wait, here it is, this one is easy to read.  With pictures and stories, a dictionary no need.  It is written like Suess, a childhood fave, one you can read to an adult or even a babe. 

 A yearly report that`s told with a rhyme for many who say it`s just about time. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 KAGAN:  And our hats off to the folks at Jack-in-the-Box in San Diego, California for making their annual report fun and easy to read. But of course, every annual report is not going to be that much fun. 

 So for some tips on deciphering what is in them, we have with us Laura Rittenhouse.  She is president of UtiliVentures.  Her company focuses on explaining the wording of an annual report to shareholders. There`s even a business for that. 

 Laura, welcome, thanks for joining us. 

 LAURA RITTENHOUSE, PRESIDENT, UTILIVENTURES:  Thanks, Daryn.  It is Nice to be here. 

 KAGAN:  Confession time.  I am one of those stockholders who sometimes get that thing in the mail and goes:  Well, that was very interesting, and either  puts it in a big pile that never gets read, or even tosses it in the trash can.  How can I approach those annual reports and just kind of get right to what I need to find out to watch how my stocks are doing? 

 RITTENHOUSE:  Daryn, it is a great question.  In fact, you are not alone.  There is a lot of people who have the same problem that you do, or do the same thing with the annual reports that they get in the mail. And that`s why we have developed a product, which we call "Language Works for Business," which does a number of things.  First of all, it recognizes the importance of these shareholder letters, as a way to understand companies.  Secondly, it provides a tool so that investors can begin to better analyze and make evaluations about a company.  And thirdly, we find companies use it so they can communicate more effectively with their shareholders. 

 TUCKER:  When you are looking at an annual report, if you are limited or you are intimidated or you are new to the process, what`s the most important thing that you can look at first that will giving you the best handle on what it is you are seeking to understand? 

 RITTENHOUSE:  Well, it is a wonderful question, because the richness of information that`s communicated in these letters means that there`s a lot of things that you have to consider.  Let me offer three things that we look at which we consider very important in evaluating these letters. One of them, we call "passionate vision," and there will be a lot of CEOs, a lot of leaders who will talk about their vision, but few will talk about the emotional conviction behind that vision.  So see what I mean, read the letters of Jack Welch of GE, Lou Gerstner`s IBM, and there you can see how these leaders are not only seeing the future, but saying that they can actually create the future, and the excitement that they write about. 

 KEENAN:  How timely, though, are these annual reports, and the information, now that so much information is available on the Internet? 

 RITTENHOUSE:  Great question.  In fact, that probably is the key reason why these letters are so important today.  In the past, people read the letters, and they were reports about how the company performed. And that made sense because investments were based on past performance. Today`s world everything is changing so fast, we see what technology is doing, you can`t rely on that past performance.  So professional investors read the letters as key indicators of how a company sees their future, and what they are doing to prepare for that future. 

 KEENAN:  OK, great, thanks a lot, Laura.  Lots of good advice. Laura Rittenhouse. 

 TUCKER:  All right, coming up on IN THE MONEY:  Are we entering the final frontier of e-commerce?  William Shatner will guide us through the ad campaign that`s giving Priceline.com`s bottom line a big boost.  Will investors be beaming up the stock? 

 KEENAN:  Plus, e-commerce puts investors in Japan in a real mood to buy stocks.  But, can the Internet revolution keep up the pace in the Pac Rim?  Should you think about investing there now?  Some answers when we return. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 TUCKER:  Welcome back.  The Dow industrials taking a hit today, down 53 points, but those utilities continue to rally, look at that, up another six points.  One stock worth mentioning today is Enzo Biochem. That stock moving 10 points higher, after a positive mention in "Business Week." 

 Technology stocks remain strong, if not overwhelmingly so. Nasdaq is up 17 points. 

 KEENAN:  Well, have you thought about putting your money in the Japanese stock market.  Just like here in the U.S., technology stocks have helped to propel Tokyo`s Nikkei index to record levels.  It is up 34 percent over the last year, record that is for the last couple of years.  Of course, the Nikkei hit a record back in the last trading day of 1989. 

 Yahoo Japan and Softbank some of the standouts driving that index higher.  But as CNN`s Marina Kamimura reports from Tokyo, some people wonder whether the tech triumph is for real. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 MARINA KAMIMURA, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over):  A look at the numbers tells you the story of how a technology revolution is taking Japanese markets by storm.  Old heavyweights, such as Sony, and new ones, such as software giant Softbank, helped Japan`s main stock averages post better gains than even their U.S. rivals last year. 

 CRAIG CHUDLER, NIKKO SALOMON SMITH BARNEY:  What has occurred in the market mainly driven by foreign investors is a realization that there is a new Japan out there. 

 KAMIMURA:  Yahoo Japan`s shares just hit an unprecedented 100 million yen in trading, a whopping $950,000 apiece.  But probe a little deeper into the market action and you see something else. 

 UNIDENTIFIED MALE:  Most of the market, and I`m talking about 80 percent, 90 percent of listed companies in Japan, remain very close to their decade lows. 

 KAMIMURA:  Remember Japan`s economic problems?  They`re still around, while the economy is starting to show signs of growth after shrinking for most of the decade.  That`s mainly because the government has spent more than $1 trillion on it. 

 But the optimists are counting on old Japan to start playing a bigger economic role, as it tries to get its ailing systems up to speed again. 

 JESPER KOLL, MERRILL LYNCH:  Until last summer, the Internet and e-commerce was seen as cowboy capitalism by Japanese managers.  This has changed now.  What you`re going to see is the Japanese economy catching up to the development seen in America over the last five years, and you have got to remember the one thing that Japan is fantastic at is catching up. 

 KAMIMURA (on camera):  Whoever you believe, experts say with volatile technology stocks playing a larger role in Japan`s markets, those investing here, just as they have in the U.S., should be prepared for some wild rides ahead. 

 Marina Kamimura, CNN, Tokyo. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 TUCKER:  In today`s edition of "Mutual Fundamentals," we are taking a look at how U.S. investors can reap the rewards we are seeing in Japanese markets.  The Matthews Japan Fund rose 107 percent last year, benefiting from its investments in financials, retailing and, of course, technology. 

 Joining us is the fund`s portfolio manager, Mark Headley, from our San Francisco bureau. 

 And Mark, welcome. 

 MARK HEADLEY, MATTHEWS INTERNATIONAL FUNDS:  Thank you. 

 TUCKER:  You are what is known as a single-country fund, meaning that all of your investments in the Asia-Pacific region are centered in Japan, a bit like putting all of your eggs in one basket.  I guess you are very confident that the recovery we are seeing in Japan is real and will continue. 

 HEADLEY:  Well, we run diversified funds in Asia as well.  But certainly, Japan is one of the obvious places in Asia where a single- country fund is totally justified.  I mean, it is really is an economy of the size and the market of the size that is closest to the United States of any economy or market in the world.  And it is not very much different than having a single country fund in the United States. 

 KEENAN:  A great year last year for the Japanese market.  How concerned are you about the strong yen and the potential that that could derail the fragile recovery?      HEADLEY:  Well, I think the Japanese have always been planning for a stronger yen.  They saw it go to 80 not too many years back, and I think that they can handle the stronger yen. The Asian economic recovery in general, I think, has outweighed the negatives of the yen. There`s a lot of exports from Japan to recovering Asian economies. And so, by and large, they`ve gotten through that without any of the real, you know, drastic problems.  Should it -- certainly a really rapid strengthening of the yen to the old high would be a problem, but I don`t think that`ll happen.  I think everybody is still worried, the economy is recovering somewhat slowly, and the government`s doing one thing wrong and one thing right.  So I doubt you`ll see the yen radically move to a higher level. 

 TUCKER:  Mark, let`s talk about your portfolio or a second.  It is an all-cap fund, meaning you can invest from anything from small cap companies to large cap companies, yet the weight of your portfolio seems to be in banking and finance -- 7 1/2 percent, I believe.  Why the concentration in that area? 

 HEADLEY:  Well, really, we have a growth at a price methodology. And in that fund, we have found the finance stocks where there is truly a financial revolution going on in Japan, with foreign competition coming in, new entries into the market, and an enormous amount of savings.  So we see a huge opportunity in Japan finances, and they`re very inexpensive.  And if the bull mark continues, the profits in those companies should be extremely strong.  So, for us, it`s a very attractive environment with what we see as not much downside. 

 KEENAN:  In just one second, give us your take on Sony, since that`s the stock U.S. investors can buy easily. 

 HEADLEY:  Absolutely.  Sony is the second largest position in our Matthews Asian Technology Fund, and it`s one of the greatest companies in Asia, and certainly a company that we think is a contender to be one of the great companies in the world going forward into this next decade. So I`d say Sony is a great company to own.  It`s a little expensive right at the moment, but their products are going to be terrifically popular in the digital age. 

 KEENAN:  OK, thanks a lot, Mark.  We appreciate it.  Mark Headley. 

 TUCKER:  Well, coming up on IN THE MONEY: 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 SHATNER:  We`ve got to get out of this place if it`s the last thing we ever do. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 TUCKER:  Taking celebrity pitching to a whole new frontier: We`ll talk to William Shatner about being at the helm of Priceline`s ad campaign when we return.      KEENAN:  And our "Stock of the Day":  Galileo Technology is taking a beating in the markets.  Is now the time to get in on this networking play? 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 KEENAN:  Welcome back to IN THE MONEY.  Coming up in this half hour, our "Stock of the Day." It`s Galileo Technology, and it`s having a cold spell of late.  Is now time to get in?  Get ready to vote. 

 TUCKER:  And to bravely go into advertising:  William Shatner will fill us in on his latest enterprise, pitching for Priceline.com. 

 But first, let`s get you up to speed on the markets, get a quick checkup here.  The Dow Industrials continue to head down, Procter & Gamble the big weight there.  Stock under pressure, and investors apparently concerned that they may, in fact, act as a white knight and step in possibly to negotiate a deal with Warner-Lambert and American Home Products.  So the Dow down 54 points. 

 Nasdaq Composite not that impressive in terms of strength.  It is up -- let`s call it 16 points.  That`s close enough. 

 KEENAN:  OK, let`s take a look at what`s going on in the bond market: a bit of a rally, bonds shrugging off another big increase in oil prices today.  We`re at a nine-year high for oil.  The long bond up 5/32 of a point.  The yield is 6.72 percent.  And, by the way, those crude oil prices trading in New York at 28.65 a barrel. 

 TUCKER:  Well, instead of stargazing, we`re going stock-gazing in today`s edition of "Stock of the Day." Galileo Technology is looking a bit less than heavenly this week after a trio of analysts cut their earnings estimates on the tech company, and that sent its shares thudding to Earth midweek.  But is this a chance to buy the stock on sale? 

 Let`s take a closer look at Galileo Technologies as our "Stock of the Day." 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 (voice-over):  Talk about your control freak:  Galileo Tech makes digital semiconductor devices; devices like local area network controllers and wide area network controllers.  They`re called LANs and WANs in tech speak.  Galileo is in a very competitive field, pitting it against the likes of Motorola and Texas Instruments.  The stock of the Israel-based company has been up about 61 percent over the past 12 months, until a hiccup Wednesday when Galileo predicted a slowdown in revenue growth in its first quarter. 

 The bulls say Galileo has potentially large markets for the company`s switches.  They also stress Galileo has shown that it knows how to identify customer needs early.  But the bears say the company could suffer from short life cycles for its high-tech products, putting deadline pressure on new products.  So the question is: Should we let shares of Galileo network into our IN THE MONEY portfolio? 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 TUCKER:  All right, let`s get a check on shares.  At the moment, Galileo is trading up 11/16 at 21 5/16. 

 KEENAN:  And joining us now to help you decide whether we should be adding Galileo Technology to our IN THE MONEY portfolio is Mark Lipacis. He is the tech analyst with Merrill Lynch. 

 And, Mark, welcome to IN THE MONEY. 

 MARK LIPACIS, MERRILL LYNCH:  Thank you. 

 KEENAN:  Several of your colleagues have cut the ratings on this stock earlier in the week.  What`s your take on it? 

 LIPACIS:  Well, the company reported revenues that were in line with our expectations, and EPS actually beat our estimate by about a penny. The surprise in the call came when the company indicated that a couple of their customers in Taiwan may have built some inventory. So, as a result, most of the analyst community downgraded -- or revised estimates slightly downward.  So we think this is a one-quarter event and the demand -- fundamental demand is still there, and we think -- we`re recommending that investors accumulate on the pullback. 

 TUCKER:  Mark, but this is a bit of a David and Goliath story. You get a little, bitty Galileo Technologies going up against a Motorola and a Texas Instruments.  Why do you like their chances of succeeding in this market? 

 LIPACIS:  Well, I think what we like -- what the exciting thing about this story actually is, that the company`s recent efforts to penetrate the wide area networking, what we call the WAN market.  And what the company -- what`s exciting about the WAN market is that it`s not as price sensitive, so there`s a lot of upside potential for gross margins. So, the company has recently introduced some new products in this space, as well as made some designs -- they`ve announced some design wins.  So we think that the early signs on this strategy is successful and there`s potential that if they can execute -- continue to execute that, there`s a lot of potential for upside in the stock. 

 KEENAN:  Who are their major competitors? 

 LIPACIS:  In the LAN space, actually, their competitors -- they cover the low end, the medium and the high end of the land space.  In the low end, we see them most up against Broadcom.  In the high end, we see them up against MMC Networks. 

 TUCKER:  All right, Mark, thank you very much. 

 Mark Lipacis.  He is the analyst that follows this stock for Merrill Lynch. 

 Thanks, Mark.      KEENAN:  OK, now that you`ve heard the arguments for and against Galileo Technology, our "Stock of the Day," head to our Web site, cnnfn.com, and cast your vote.  Tell us whether we should buy it for our IN THE MONEY portfolio. 

 Now, you told us what you thought about Harley-Davidson yesterday. Nearly 60 percent of you voted thumbs-up on the motorbike maker, so we`ll buy $1,000-worth of shares of Harley-Davidson for our IN THE MONEY portfolio. 

 And you had your thumbs up as well, Bill. 

 TUCKER:  Yes, indeed.  I like that stock.  And I like the bike, as well. 

 Coming up, an earful of ad. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 SHATNER:  In the seventh house, Jupiter aligns with Mars; peace will guide the planets, and love will steer the stars... 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 TUCKER:  Cyberspace, the final frontier:  We`ll talk to Priceline`s spokes-celebrity, William Shatner. 

 KEENAN:  We`re going to check what is moving the markets two hours into the trading day.  The Dow is down 3.6 percent so far this week, but the Nasdaq`s up 2.7 percent.  Here now is a look at how some of the stocks in our IN THE MONEY portfolio are faring today. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 KEENAN:  And welcome back to IN THE MONEY.  Just ahead:  He roamed the galaxy as "Captain Kirk." Now, he`s exploring new territory in cyberspace. 

 TUCKER:  We will check in with actor William Shatner to find out about his new venture into e-commerce. 

 But first, we go to Daryn Kagan in Atlanta for some news stories we`re keeping our eyes on today. 

 Hey, again, Daryn. 

 KAGAN:  Good morning, once again, Bill and Terry. 

 Officials at Chicago`s O`Hare International Airport are keeping their fingers crossed that a power outage will not disrupt operations today. The electricity went out for about two hours early this morning in one terminal and part of another.  So far, there have been no reports of any flight delays or any other problems.  Authorities pin the power outage on a problem at a substation in a Chicago suburb. 

 Heavy snow has buried most of Japan`s northern island of Hokkaido and parts of Honshu.  More than five feet of snow fell on the region, shutting down schools and businesses and causing chaos on roads and highways.  Flights also were canceled after an airport in eastern Hokkaido was shut down.  And to make matters even worse, temperatures overnight dropped below zero.  The snowstorm is one of the worst to hit Japan this winter. 

 And if you didn`t see last night`s lunar eclipse, here is a rare treat for you.  The moon, as expected, put on a heavenly show, appearing to turn a reddish color during the time it was covered by the Earth`s shadow.  One expert called it the brightest lunar eclipse in years.  It could be seen in much of North and South America and parts of Western Europe and Africa.  But cloud cover kept much of the East Coast of the U.S. from watching the lunar event. 

 William Shatner, perhaps best known as Captain Kirk, is promoting a new enterprise these days, Priceline.com. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP, PRICELINE.COM ADVERTISEMENT) 

 SHATNER:  It`s a whole new age of consumer power.  With Priceline.com millions of beautiful people are paying their own price and saving a load of bread on the things they want and need.  Can you dig it? 

 We got a great big convoy rocking through the night, yeah.  They got a great big convoy.  Ain`t she a beautiful sight?  Can you see it, Mister? An army of Priceline.com users millions strong. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 KAGAN:  His parodies of pop hits from the 1960s and `70s are helping Priceline enter a new frontier.  Priceline`s revenue and unit sales hit records one week after the launch of these ads. 

 Shatner is also no stranger to singing. 

 (BEGIN AUDIO CLIP, "THE TRANSFORMED MAN") 

 SHATNER:  ... like a clinging vine up the lordly tree, rising by the deceit and trickery, instead of my own strength.  No thank you. Imitate what others do and dedicate my works to the rich in the hope of arousing a smile of recognition from... 

 (END AUDIO CLIP) 

 KAGAN:  Perhaps he didn`t know we were going to go digging into this past, this song is from his solo album, "The Transformed Man." It was released back in 1968.  Also, in the `60s, he joined his fellow Trekkie, Mr. Spock, to produce a joint album called "Spaced Out." 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP, "STAR TREK") 

 ANNOUNCER:  These are the voyages of the Star Ship Enterprise, its five-year mission to explore... 

 (END VIDEO CLIP)      KAGAN:  Of course, most of us know Shatner as "Star Trek"`s Captain Kirk, at the helm of the Starship Enterprise.  He played that role from 1966 to 1969 in the television series, and then later in "Star Trek" movies.  Now he`s gone from outer space to cyberspace, and William Shatner continues to entertain. 

 And he is joining us here at IN THE MONEY, Terry, Bill and me as well. And I would like to welcome you to IN THE MONEY. 

 SHATNER:  Thanks, I`m glad to be here. 

 KAGAN:  It`s quite a span your career has taken.  I`m most interested in how you came to be the spokesman for Priceline.com and popular wisdom has it that they did it as a stock swap, is that right? And how did they talk you into that? 

 SHATNER:  Well, some people came to me and said they wanted me to be a spokesman for this company.  And as I would on any offer, find out more about it, and they began to talk about Internet, and that they would do a name-your-own-price for airline tickets that were seats that weren`t being sold anyway.  And it all smacked of a great idea. 

 So I said:  Yes, I`ll go on, and I`ll take stock instead of money intuitively.  I had no reason to do anything else.  And it seemed to have paid off.  It was a gamble. 

 KEENAN:  It was a leap of faith before it was before this Internet stock craze. 

 SHATNER:  Absolutely.  It was a leap of intuition, I think.  And I haven`t sold any shares.  I`m holding on to it.  I think the Internet, as we all know, is burgeoning and what is ahead, none of us can tell, but you can dimly make out a little of the future.  It looks good. 

 TUCKER:  Do you have any idea, I mean, I realize you took this sort of intuitive gamble in terms of taking the stock.  But did you have any idea that the Internet would have this kind of profound impact? 

 SHATNER:  No, I`m totally, up until this point, computer illiterate. I`m beginning to try and work some magic and learn something.  But I had no idea of what it was.  I had no idea what the Internet was, I had no idea what an Internet company was.  Nobody could have foretold that Toys "R" Us would not be able to ship enough stuff on the Christmas sale. 

 KAGAN:  Bill, since this is a personal investment show.  I think our viewers would be really interested to know how a big star like you handles your investments.  Do you handle it yourself or do you use a professional? 

 SHATNER:  It takes a long time to understand that nobody knows anything.  And I -- I`m -- actually I have an economics degree from McGill University, which I`ve never used.  So I trot it out at the moments like this and say I have this bachelor business administration here in the States. 

 I try and fumble around myself a little.  I have advisers, I know that they know nothing, I know I know nothing, and I have discovered that 50 percent of the advisers on any network know nothing.  So it`s a gamble, an educated gamble. 

 KEENAN:  Have you shopped on-line? 

 SHATNER:  No, I don`t know how to get on-line, but I did shop recently for a car through Priceline? 

 TUCKER:  Did you? 

 SHATNER:  Yes. 

 TUCKER:  Was it successful? 

 SHATNER:  Very, enormously. 

 TUCKER:  Are you having fun with this?  Because I got to tell you, I had the `68 vinyl release of what is now on CD.  And I confess, I never thought anybody would take the time to put this onto CD. 

 SHATNER:  Somehow they did.  I don`t know where they got it.  I certainly never seen anything as a result of it.  But I think that album was the inspiration for the advertising firm`s concept for me to sing. I`m having a ball with it.  It`s great fun.  I`ve gotten another record offer and I think I`m going to take it up, as a result of these ads.  I am offered a Broadway musical.  I had to turn it down because I`m busy. It`s been a gas. 

 KEENAN:  And what`s next for Priceline?  You mentioned they have gotten into cars, what is next? 

 SHATNER:  Well, Priceline is doing groceries here in the new York area.  They`re rolling out all over the country by the summertime. Priceline is a great company.  Priceline is moving ahead ever quarter, cutting losses, and gaining revenue, and billion dollar revenue this past year.  It`s a happening company.  And I`m not selling my shares because I think that the stock will go up. 

 TUCKER:  Thank you very much for being here.  It`s been a treat to have you as our guest today. 

 SHATNER:  Thank you.  Thrilled to be on your show. 

 KEENAN:  Thank you very much.  And Priceline`s shares, by the way, are up a dollar and a half right now, almost 64. 

 TUCKER:  Mr. Shatner getting richer even as we speak to him. 

 And a dot.com -- another dot.com is coming to Earth, literally. The Oregon town of Halfway is going whole-hog with the Internet, renaming itself Half.com.  It`s the first ever dot.com city on the planet. Half.com says it`s made the one-year name change to bring cyber-exposure to its local businesses and confuse anchors like me.      Straight ahead on IN THE MONEY, a usually secretive chip company is suddenly taking the spotlight. 

 KEENAN:  We are going to show you how Transmeta hopes to change the chip landscape and what it could mean for consumers, especially if you`re in the market for a notebook computer. 

 TUCKER:  Bill, thank you. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 TUCKER:  All right, a little excitement as Excite@Home, the company, announces some executive shuffling. 

 KEENAN:  That story leads off Andy Serwer`s notes from Silicon Valley. And that stock is trading down at this hour. 

 ANDY SERWER, EDITOR-AT-LARGE, "FORTUNE" MAGAZINE:  It is.  I mean, first of all, I want to say it`s always tough for me to follow William Shatner, and I`m wondering if either of you guys are interested in a Vulcan mind meld after the show.  But you can answer that later. 

 Anyway, Excite@Home, some news after the bell with this company, the CEO, Tom Jermoluk moving up to the chairman`s spot, and George Bell, the CEO and president, becoming the CEO. 

 And, you know, there`s interesting speculation here.  Some people said that T.J., as Tom Jermoluk is know, stepped aside because he`s afraid of the AOL-Time Warner merger.  Of course, Excite@Home is a portal plus the high-speed cable access service.  I don`t think that`s really true. T.J. is not afraid of the AOL-Time Warner merger.  He`s a very good buddy of Jim Clark`s, and I think he and Jim Clark are going to do some more investing together.  George Bell very familiar to the people on Wall Street.  He was the CEO of Excite before the merger.  The stock is down a bit, though, Terry, because T.J. is a real force and it is sort of too bad for those shareholders, I think, that he`s moving aside a little bit. 

 KEENAN:  He`s a big character in "The New, New Thing." 

 SERWER:  Absolutely, yes, a big guy. 

 TUCKER:  Yes, but, you know, it`s interesting because Excite@Home you`d think would stand to benefit from an AOL-Time Warner merger because Excite@Home, in many, many ways, is what the planned merger would become. 

 SERWER:  Absolutely, Bill.  It`s sort of a mini version.  It`s got the content and the distribution platform.  I think, ultimately, this company will have to partner up, of course, though, and there`s some speculation that that might happen, and that might be good for shareholders, of course. 

 KEENAN:  And you also want to talk about this new chip unveiled yesterday in a place called -- that I didn`t know existed -- Saratoga, California, not New York. 

 SERWER:  Right, right. 

 KEENAN:  What`s the latest on that? 

 SERWER:  Well, Transmeta is the company that introduced this chip, Terry -- that`s hard to say -- and it`s a very high-speed microprocessor that`s going to compete with Intel`s products and AMD`s products.  And you saw Intel`s stock drop a couple points over the past couple days because of this.  And, you know, I talked to Charlie Glavine (ph) from Chase-H&Q about this.  He said it`s really nothing for Intel to worry about -- Intel shareholders to worry about in the short run.  In fact, it may sort of spur the giant to sort of come up with more Linux-favorable products itself. 

 Of course, Transmeta has Linus Torvolds, the founder of Linux, working there, and people are very, very excited about the fact that, you know, he`s doing stuff there. 

 We see some pictures of this chip announcement.  It`s called Crusoe. 

 Transmeta is going to be a force to be reckoned with, though, in this microprocessor space, and Glavine thinks it might actually put more pressure on AMD rather than Intel.  Might be good for Intel in the short run.  So we got to watch this stock. 

 TUCKER:  And they`re not public yet, right?  They`re still a private company? 

 SERWER:  No.  Actually, very good point, Bill, but Transmeta is probably going to look to do an IPO, and I guarantee you that is going to be a hot offering. 

 TUCKER:  All right, Andy. 

 KEENAN:  OK, thanks, Andy. 

 SERWER:  OK, guys. 

 KEENAN:  Have a good weekend. 

 TUCKER:  All right, a quick note before we say goodbye:  One of our featured investors has been given an honor for his savvy investing skills. 

 KEENAN:  In November, we featured the trading exploits of trader Carlos Rubino.  He, of course, is the day-trading cabby.  Now "New York" magazine has chosen Rubino as one of this year`s 10 Wall Street winners. The magazine notes Rubino`s portfolio was up 35 percent, beating the S&P 500. 

 TUCKER:  The cab driver tells "New York" magazine the first half of the year will be tough because of interest rate concerns, but investors will put the petal to the metal in the second half with the return of some strong buying.  We`ll try to flag down Carlos some time again soon. 

 KEENAN:  And that`s going to do it for today`s edition of IN THE MONEY.  Thanks for watching.  I`m Terry Keenan. 

 TUCKER:  And goodbye from Daryn Kagan and myself, as well.  I`m Bill Tucker.  Have a great weekend.  See you later. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc.  ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.  No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material.  This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document ithm000020010807dw1l0000l




 RESEARCH ALERT - Convergent downgraded. 

94 words
20 January 2000
16:55
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 20 (Reuters) - J.P. Morgan analyst Mark Langner cut his rating on Convergent Communications Inc., a provider of voice and data network services, to market performer from buy Thursday. 

 - deepened forecast for 1999 fourth-quarter loss per share to $1.06 from $1.05. 

 - deepened outlook for 2000 loss per share to $4.60 from $3.37. 

 - downgrade based on fourth-quarter profit warning. 

 - Convergent off 2-5/16 at 10-7/16. 

 ((-Wall Street desk, (212) 859-1730, fax (212) 859-1739)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010820dw1k01z54


 Business 
 MONEYLINE; CNNfn 

 Willow Bay, Stuart Varney, Greg Clarkin, Susan Lisovicz, Charles Molineaux, Bruce Francis, Peter Viles, Allan Dodds Frank, Bill Dorman, Kelli Arena 
8,292 words
20 January 2000
23:30
CNNfn: Moneyline News Hour
MNYL
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 WILLOW BAY, CNNfn ANCHOR, MONEYLINE:  Tonight, the quarter Lucent (URL: http://www.lucent.com/) would like to forget -- the late-day pro]fit letdown from the telecom equipment giant. 

 STUART VARNEY, CNNfn  ANCHOR, MONEYLINE: A tale of two markets: the blue chips buckle again, while the Nasdaq rips through another record. 

 BAY: A retail landmark beats the Street, and the stock gets hit anyway. How can Sears (URL: http://www.sears.com/) win back Wall Street`s trust? We`ll ask the CEO. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 JIM BARKSDALE, PARTNER, THE BARKSDALE GROUP: In the amount of $100 million. 

 (APPLAUSE) 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 VARNEY: And a big-ticket gift from a Silicon Valley legend -- we`ll talk with Jim Barksdale about giving back and about life after Netscape. 

 ANNOUNCER: This is the MONEYLINE NEWS HOUR. Reporting tonight from New York, Stuart Varney, and from Los Angeles, Willow Bay. 

 BAY: Good evening. Lucent prepared Wall Street for the worst. 

 VARNEY: And just a few hours ago, the company delivered on its grim promise, and then some. Lucent posted earnings that fell short of Wall Street expectations, which were drastically lowered by the company two weeks ago. The warning earlier this month shocked investors, who slashed more than $50 billion off the company`s market value in one day. The stock, which is held by more Americans than any other, has not recovered. 

 Greg Clarkin joins us now with more on this debate. 

 GREG CLARKIN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: That`s right, Stuart. It was a disappointing quarter any way you cut it from Lucent Technologies. Now two weeks ago today, the company said that its inability really to keep up with demand for some of its fiber optic networking equipment would lead to a dramatic profit shortfall, and that is what they reported after the close after the close of trading today. Now the company came in with 37 cents a share, and 37 cents a share rather was expected. They came in with 36 cents a share in earnings, and that is right at the low end of the range that they said they would report, which was 36-39 cents a share. Now keep in mind, before this profit warning, analysts were looking for 54 cents a share in earnings, so way off the original estimates. 

 Now as far as the revenue line goes, 9.9 billion -- that was up just fractionally from the year ago period. So overall, looking at profits, down 23 percent or so. And again, the company`s inability to keep up with demand really is at the heart of this. On the conference call with analysts, CEO Rich McGinn is basically apologizing, said that they should have these problems worked out within a quarter or two. 

 Now ahead of this earnings report today, Lucent shares traded higher in New York trading. They`re up about 2 and a fraction. But take a look at what`s happening in after-hours trading. Down 1 1/4. And look at that level, 52 3/8. We should point out this is a stock that in December was trading in the low 80s. Before that profit warning two weeks ago, it was 

 in the low 70s, and at this point, Stuart, analysts are saying that, basically, they want to hear some real concrete plans how to restore confidence to this company, because investors just have not come back to it. 

 VARNEY: Something tells me that the momentum players are out of that stock. 

 CLARKIN: Exactly. When this profit warning hit, a lot of folks just got out of it, and really slow to come back to it. But no one really argues that these guys have a very enviable position in this marketplace. 

 VARNEY: Fair enough. 

 Greg Clarkin, thanks very much -- Willow. 

 BAY: Thanks, Stuart. 

 Lucent isn`t the only stock trading lower tonight after releasing a profit scorecard. Sun Microsystems is down as well, even though the computer network company of Java software beat expectations with double-digit growth in profit and revenue. Gateway (URL: http://www.gateway.com/) , meanwhile, is also down in late action, after the PC direct seller met expectations that were lowered earlier this month. Sun (URL: http://www.sun.com/) is down more than 3 3/4 in late trading tonight. Gateway off 2 7/8. 

 VARNEY: Both Gateway and Sun were higher in regular trading today, in a market divided between high-tech winners and blue-chip losers. In three sessions, the Dow has lost nearly 370 points, while the Nasdaq has moved back into record territory. 

 Susan Lisovicz reports. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 SUSAN LISOVICZ, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Higher bond yields once again stole thunder from the stock market, but many technology stocks proved resilient. Old-line blue chip stocks were hit hardest, with most of the weakness dragging down cyclical issues. The Dow Jones industrial shed 138 points, closing at a level of 11,351, but investors bought up tech issues after a handful of big firms beat analyst earnings expectation late Wednesday. The Nasdaq composite, Amex and Russell 2000 indices all ended in record territory. 

 ELIZABETH MACKAY, BEAR STEARNS: On the whole here, this has been pretty good, and I think we probably will see double-digit earnings growth this year. I think the bigger worry is, at what point do interest rates begin to bite? Do they begin to attract money from stocks? 

 LISOVICZ: No such concerns for IBM (URL: http://www.ibm.com/) , which soared more than $6 after reporting better-than-expected numbers  amid lowered expectations and a quarter that saw both revenue and profits drop. But investors were more stubborn with America Online (URL: http://www.aol.com/) , General Electric (URL: http://www.ge.com) and Advanced Micro Devices (URL: http://www.amd.com/) , despite stellar profit results for the quarter. 

 Bond prices ended down 9/32 of a point in price, pushing the yield on the 30-year benchmark up to 6.73 percent. Comments from Federal Reserve Governor Laurence Meyer at mid-session jostled stocks and caused a brief flight to quality in Treasuries. 

 LAURENCE MEYER, FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD GOVERNOR: Supporting the maximum sustainable growth is the business of monetary policy, but achieving maximum sustainable growth is also about ensuring the sustainability of an expansion and therefore avoiding overheating. 

 LISOVICZ: The markets interpreted Meyer`s words as a strong indication the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates next month. 

 LINDA JAY, RPM SPECIALIST: The big, big concern right now is an interest rate hike, you know, when the Fed meets on February 1, and I think that that`s going to continue to loom over us until then. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 LISOVICZ: But right now, the name of the game is earnings. Dow component Caterpillar (URL: http://www.cat.com/) is expected to report earnings tomorrow before the bell. The street is looking for profits around 64 cents a share, 22 percent lower than last year -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: Yes, but, Susan, most of these earnings reports have been pretty good. Now why has the market ignored those good earnings reports and sent blue chip stocks down? 

 LISOVICZ: Well, sometimes it is confusing, Stuart. Case in point, we had Microsoft (URL: http://www.microsoft.com/) and GE report better-than-expected earnings. Those stocks sold off. Could be a number of reasons. Sometimes investors are simply spoiled, not beating whisper numbers or not much better than expected. Sometimes it`s just simply profit taking, so it`s just a combination of things, can`t always predict how it`s going to go. 

 VARNEY: Not to mention the Fed may be raising rates. 

 LISOVICZ: You got it. 

 VARNEY: Susan Lisovicz, thank you very much. 

 LISOVICZ: While blue-chip stocks tumbled today, the Nasdaq held its own, down just eight points at its low, before powering back for its third record of this young year. After a few harrowing weeks, the Nasdaq is now up 3 percent in the new year. The Dow, in contrast, is down on the year after hitting a record on Friday. 

 Charles Molineaux joins us from the Nasdaq market site with more on another banner day for high-tech stocks -- Charles. 

 CHARLES MOLINEAUX, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Willow, yes, we saw a new record and intense volume for technology stocks, 1.8 billion shares traded, making this the most actively traded day in Nasdaq history and a day of wild volatility as well. 

 First, the overnight earnings news, then profit taking sent the Nasdaq composite surging into record territory, then down at midday, then back up to a record close of 4,189. Earnings definitely moved this market. Apple (URL: http://www.apple.com/) blew away the expectations and surged on the day today. Legato (URL: http://www.legato.com/) missed the estimates and it tanked. Biotechnology stocks led the market however; they rose by 3 percent. Biogen (URL: http://www.biogen.com/) gained $4.50. Millennium Pharmaceuticals (URL: http://www.mlnm.com/) surged as the centerpiece of some bullish analysts comments on the whole sector. Computer stocks rose in spite of weakness for Intel (URL: http://www.intel.com/) , and even battered Dell (URL: http://www.dell.com/) managed to gain some ground after Deutsche Bank analysts talked up the PC sector in general. 

 Telecom stocks surged by 2 percent. And the market`s darling, JDS Uniphase (URL: http://www.jdsunph.com/) , continued its rise on news that it`s keeping a major customer, Lucent. Internet stocks started strong, but lost some of their ground. Amazon (URL: http://www.amazon.com/) and Yahoo! (URL: http://www.yahoo.com/) both fell on the day and eBay (URL: http://www.ebay.com/) , on the other hand, managed to pull off a gain, and of course Sun Microsystems was up by $3.50 and then managed to fall off after reporting better-than-expected earnings, news something that the strategists say is a risk in this high flying market. Willow, people buying on those rumors and selling on what is even good news. 

 BAY: Charles, I`m curious about IBM and AOL, big board stocks, having any impact on the Nasdaq? 

 MOLINEAUX: Absolutely. Those are bellwethers for the technology sector. IBM and AOL of course are both on the New York Stock Exchange, but they`ve reported better-than-expected news and, of course, IBM`s expectations were pretty gloomy. We saw a big pop. That`s largely what we saw right at the open today. That of course does not bode well when we take a look at Lucent, which was a big disappointment, and that may trade on the New York Stock Exchange, too, but it will probably have impact here tomorrow. 

 BAY: OK, Charles Molineaux, at the Nasdaq, thank you -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: All right, thanks, Willow. 

 Time now to find out what some of MONEYLINE`s other reporters are working on for tonight`s broadcast. We start with Bruce Francis -- Bruce. 

 BRUCE FRANCIS, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: Stuart, thanks. Sun is shining through the Y2K clouds with record second-quarter earnings. I`ll tell you  why this Sun is a white-hot dot-com star. 

 PETER VILES, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: I`m Peter Viles. General Electric reports record setting earnings and revenues. We`ll look through those numbers for clues as to just who might replace Jack Welch. 

 ALLAN DODDS FRANK, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT: And I`m Allan Dodds Frank. New money back to old myths. We`ll tell you about Jim Barksdale`s $100 million donation to his home state and its implications for the newly rich -- Stuart and Willow. 

 BAY: Thanks, Alan. 

 Also coming up on MONEYLINE: As the U.S. trade gap yawns wider than ever, high-tech companies float an idea for narrowing it. 

 VARNEY: We`ll tell you what they`re proposing after the break. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Another sign today that the job market remains tight and the pace  of hiring brisk indeed. Some 272,000 Americans filed for jobless benefits last week. That is a decrease of 39,000 from the first week of the year. That didn`t help matters in the beleaguered bond market, prices  slipped late in the day. The 30-year Treasury down 9/32, that pushed the yield up to 6.73 percent. Rising interest rates are making it a bit more expensive to buy a home. Mortgage rates rose for the sixth straight week. The 30-year fixed rate hit a 8.3 percent average, the highest level in nearly five years. 

 BAY: In other economic news, the U.S. trade deficit swelled to a record $26.5 billion in November, up 4 percent from October, the previous record. But some of the nation`s high-tech firms say they found a way to close the widening gap, by opening the door to more exports. 

 Bill Dorman has the details. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 BILL DORMAN, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Higher oil prices and a booming U.S. economy -- add them together for a record U.S. trade deficit. Consumers in this country bought more from overseas than ever before, as 

 imports surged to more than $109 billion -- a new record. Exports also hit a new record -- nearly $83 billion, although they`re not growing as fast as imports. 

 JAMES GLASSMAN, CHASE MANHATTAN: The problem is our trading partners aren`t strong enough yet for us to do -- to do much good for us. So we`re seeing strong import growth and exports picking up, but not all that strong yet. 

 DORMAN: Leaders of U.S. high-technology firms say their products can help, especially if they can export freely to China. That was the message in a White House meeting today involving the CEO`s or chairmen of IBM, Cisco (URL: http://www.cisco.com/) , Intel, Dell, Hewlett-Packard (URL: http//www.hp.com/) , and others. President Clinton spoke to them about the importance of China trade, encouraging the technology leaders. 

 RHETT DAWSON, INFO. TECH., INDUSTRY COUNCIL: They took this as a very, very positive signal about President Clinton`s interest and commitment to this whole issue of trade, and that`s really important for the information technology industry. 

 DORMAN: The industry wants Congress to grant permanent normal trade relations to China as part of its path to membership in the World Trade Organization, it`s a vote one lobbyist calls "absolutely critical." The industry would prefer to see congressional action early in the session that begins next week. One fear: memories of protests against  the WTO in Seattle last month. Another fear: the coming presidential election and a possible backlash against free trade. 

 (on camera): The simple reason trade matters so much to technology firms: profits. The Business Software Alliance says more than half the profits of its member companies come from overseas and they`d like to see those profits continue to grow. 

 Bill Dorman, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: Still to come on MONEYLINE, Sears blows past profit estimates, but its stock still heads south. 

 BAY: Chairman and CEO Arthur Martinez on the company`s turnaround efforts, when MONEYLINE returns. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: ALCOA (URL: http://www.alcoa.com/) tops tonight`s MONEYLINE "Movers," down more than 4 1/2. CIBC World Markets downgraded the Dow component, saying Alcoa`s decision to increase aluminum output could lower prices. Altera (URL: http://www.altera.com/) soared  10 7/8. Several analysts raised their ratings on the chipmaker. Late yesterday, it did report better-than-expected earnings. Legato Systems down 23 7/8. Several analysts downgraded the software maker after it missed fourth-quarter estimates. Late yesterday, Legato also said it will restate third-quarter earnings. 

 BAY: The first of the nation`s big auto makers rolled out with its own fourth-quarter profit report today. General Motors beat estimates by a nickel, but net income dropped 35 percent to just over $1 billion. Revenue jumped nearly 4 percent. And earlier on CNNfn, the company`s CFO explained why. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 MICHAEL LOSH, CFO, GENERAL MOTORS: We earned $400 million in Europe. I think when other people`s numbers are out, that those numbers in Europe will stack up very favorably. And then, although both Latin America and Asia were, you know, were not good results in an absolute sense, I think there`s a lot to be encouraged about. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 BAY: In other earnings headlines, a blow out quarter for Atlantic Richfield. The oil company said fourth-quarter earnings climbed nearly eight fold. Revenues soared 38 percent to $3.7 billion. Here`s how those stocks did today: General Motors (URL: http://www.gm.com) up 3/4, ARCO (URL: http://www.arco.com/) jumped more than 2 1/4. 

 VARNEY: Turnaround efforts at Sears appear to be moving ahead. The retailer handily beat fourth-quarter estimates today by 21 cents a share. Profits jumped 38 percent, making $740 million. Sears cites strength in its retail operations and says the trend should continue through the year. But Wall Street still thinks Sears has more to prove. Its stock fell 5 percent today and is down more than 24 percent over the past year. 

 Earlier, I spoke with Arthur Martinez, the company`s chairman and CEO. I asked him if he thinks Sears is back on track. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 ARTHUR MARTINEZ, CHAIRMAN & CEO, SEARS ROEBUCK: Well, this was an important quarter for us to re-establish momentum. This is a business that is under constant attack from competition every day, so it would be the last thing I`d say is that we have all of our problems solved. We have much more work to do on our retail business, but this was an important  punctuation point to the year and I think the start of a new trend for our company. 

 VARNEY (on camera): You are calling for modest sales gains in the year 2000, low single-digit gains in sales, I believe. Now look, in a booming economy, why not a more robust performance? 

 MARTINEZ: Well, those assumptions are really based on what guidance we like to give to our investor community. Our internal targets, in fact, will be higher. We hope to overachieve those assumptions. 

 VARNEY: Can you tell us a little bit more about that? Are you looking for high single digits on sales gains? 

 MARTINEZ: Well, I believe that we have the opportunity in our hard-lines businesses, where we have many market leading franchises, to grow at or above the market. Hopefully, above the market as we gain market  share, and I believe we can get our apparel business back on track to grow at market rates, so the combination would move us north of those low single digits if we can achieve our internal targets into the mid-single digits. 

 VARNEY: What kind of contribution are you expecting from your online division? 

 MARTINEZ: Well, our online business was very gratifying, particularly in the fourth quarter. We invested heavily in 1999 and we`re going to raise our investment rate significantly in the year 2000. Now, against the backdrop of a $42 billion business, revenues are still relatively small, but we`re finding many visitors to our sites and people engaged in real transactions on the Web in our product categories. 

 VARNEY: Can you tell us how much online business you did in the fourth quarter last year? 

 MARTINEZ: No, we haven`t disclosed that. We will, though, in the year 2000, begin to disclose segment data with respect to revenues and investments. VARNEY: Would you go so far as to say that your online strategy has been an outstanding success? 

 MARTINEZ: It has exceeded our expectations. Outstanding success may be a bit too much for me at this point, but we have achieved and exceeded all of our own internal expectations. The question now is to keep ramping up our investment and turning it into a productive expression of Sears. 

 VARNEY: How do you feel -- if I can ask this question -- how do you feel about -- you are leading an old-line company, and you are facing  such a serious challenge from new-economy, almost start-up companies. How do you feel about that personally? 

 MARTINEZ: Well, I think it`s part of the incredible cycle of innovation and change in American industry, and in particular, in retailing, where at every point in time there is some disruptive new format or retail concept that challenges the online retailer -- the old-line retailers, rather. In this environment -- it`s a new challenge. It`s one that we have to get used to, and we have understand that what we want to do is to have a seamless relationship with our customers through whatever channel they choose to shop. 

 VARNEY: Will you ever... 

 MARTINEZ: So we have to embrace it -- excuse me. 

 VARNEY: That`s all right. Will you ever become firmly a new- economy company? 

 MARTINEZ: I think we`ll always have a traditional store business. It needs to be a better business than it is today, but I can see a wonderful balance between a new age, if you will, new economy presentation of the Sears brand to the customer, alongside the more traditional presentation. 

 VARNEY: Arthur Martinez, at Sears, we thank you very much for joining us on MONEYLINE. Thank you, sir. MARTINEZ: Thanks, Stuart. 

 BAY: Still ahead on MONEYLINE, the FCC clears the way for a radio revolution. 

 VARNEY: But will low-power FM radio prove a high-powered headache for big broadcasters? We`ll answer that question in a moment. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Now a look at today`s other top stories outside the world  of business in the MONEYLINE "News Digest." 

 The State Department granting visas to the grandmothers of Elian Gonzalez. They`re expected to fly into New York to ask for the disputed youngster`s return to Cuba. 

 The Clinton administration proposing a $30 billion tax credit for college education, and available to both low and middle-income families. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 RICHARD RILEY, EDUCATION SECRETARY: Today there is no more important capital investment than the skills and the knowledge of our citizens. Making college tuition tax deductible is an idea whose time has come. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 VARNEY: And hundreds of flights delayed and canceled as the Northeast struggles through its first major snowstorm of the winter. Washington`s federal workers had an optional day off. 

 BAY: The Federal Communications Commission today bringing one of the biggest changes in decades to FM radio. The FCC is granting licenses to a brand-new class of low-power FM stations, that in response to small communities, churches, and other local groups who say their voice is being drowned out by the consolidation in commercial radio. 

 Kelli Arena has more. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 KELLI ARENA, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Steven Franco is known to his Maryland neighbors as DJ E-Z Dee, playing music and pushing products over the speakers in his family`s discount variety store. His dream is to take his message outside the confines of the store and into the community. 

 STEVEN FRANCO: The general public wants more selections, more choices. There are voices that need, you know, that want to be heard. 

 ARENA: Apparently, the Federal Communications Commission agrees. It voted to approve a new class of low-power FM stations that can be used for any kind of non-commercial programming. The new stations will be able to reach an audience within about three and a half miles. 

 WILLIAM KENNARD, FCC CHAIRMAN: Everyday it seems we read about more and more consolidation in the broadcast area, which means that it`s harder for smaller groups and individuals to get access to the airwaves as licensees, as broadcasters. 

 ARENA: Musicians say its a way to get more alternative music on the air, and groups ranging from universities to state highway agencies plan to set  up low-power stations. 

 But not everyone thinks the move is a good idea. 

 HAROLD FURCHTGOTT-ROTH, FCC COMMISSIONER: Such actions harm existing license holders, and more importantly, they harm the American listening public while producing very little in the way of countervailing benefits. 

 ARENA: The National Association of Broadcasters agrees, but would not say so on camera. The group says studies show interference will result from low-power FM, and vow to review every option to undo the damage. 

 In the meantime, the Steven Franco`s of the world are eager to offer local listeners truly local radio. 

 Kelli Arena, CNN financial news, Washington. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: And finally this half-hour, a look at the impact of the bull market on Americans` 401(k) plans. A new survey finds the average balance for active 401(k) investors up 26 percent between 1996 and 1998, to just over $47,000 on average. The figures, from the Employee Benefit Research Institute, show 45 percent of participants have less than 10,000 in their account, 13 percent are worth over 100,000. 

 Not surprisingly, the young risked more. Employees in their 20`s put an average of 62 percent of their assets in equity funds, stock funds, while  people in their 60`s invested just 40 percent in those equities. 

 BAY: In our next half-hour, the Dow derailed again. 

 VARNEY: We`ll look at how the Nasdaq has managed to stay on the fast track. 

 BAY: The bottom line for Sun Microsystems, how CEO Scott McNealy beat the Street and took a swipe at his rival. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Disappointment tonight from a Wall Street darling, Lucent`s profits fall short of already-lowered forecasts for the first time ever. In the busiest session in history, the Nasdaq cracks an all- time high for the second day in a row. And a dot.com pioneer promotes literacy with a big donation. Tonight, we`ll talk to Netscape`s former CEO James Barksdale. 

 VARNEY: First, our top story: a bright quarter for a Nasdaq bellwether, Sun Microsystems reported earnings of 21 cents a share, that`s a penny better than most analysts were expecting. However, Sun still fell short of that so-called whisper number -- bad news indeed -- and its stock gave up today`s gains in after-hours trading, down more than 3 points. 

 Bruce Francis reports. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 FRANCIS (voice-over): Claiming that it now leads rivals like IBM and Hewlett-Packard in key computer markets like high-end e-commerce servers, Sun turned in results that narrowly beat Wall Street`s estimates. 

 Sun earned $353 million in its second quarter, up 30 percent, excluding a one-time charge from a year ago, revenues of more than $3.5 billion, increased 27 percent. 

 Sun crowed that it was piling on new customers in the dot.com world like Homegrocer.com, Petstore.com, and KBkids.com, in addition to its traditional core of large corporate customers. 

 JOHN JONES, SALOMON SMITH BARNEY: It clearly hit a point in the market when they`re having a hard time doing anything wrong and everything is falling into place for them. 

 FRANCIS: On a conference call with analysts, Sun predicted that growth for the next two quarters would be about 25 percent, but above that level would "stretch the company." 

 Sun also called demand for its servers and other products strong, and predicted that 2000 would be a breakaway year. The stock certainly has had a breakaway run already. Unlike chief competitors IBM and Hewlett-Packard, Sun`s stock has soared in the past few months, up over 200 percent in the past year. 

 PAUL MEEKS, MERRILL LYNCH GLOBAL TECH FUND: My price target on Sun Microsystems is about 30 percent or so higher than where the stock is trading today, and this is a company that has done an amazing job of repositioning themselves to really become the hardware supplier to the dot.com world. 

 FRANCIS: But Linux is an increasingly popular software choice for that world and Sun reaffirmed that it doesn`t plan a major Linux push. It`s sticking with it`s own operating system, Solaris. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 FRANCIS: In an obvious reference to Bill Gates` recent move, Sun`s wisecracking CEO, Scott McNealy, told analysts on that conference call that he has no plans to change his title anytime soon. And taking a shot at Steve Jobs` bonus of a private jet, McNealy said that "United Airlines works just fine" for him, and it can at these numbers. 

 VARNEY: Guess it does, right? Now, the stock is down 3 points in after-hours trading. Is that just because it missed that whisper number, that`s it, that`s the only reason? 

 FRANCIS: Probably. Sun, as you know, has been on an amazing tear  this past year. If there was anything negative there was a little bit of talk about how Sun would be stretched to grow more than 25 percent in the second half of this year. 

 VARNEY: But if Sun had closed at its late 4:00 price, it would have been an all-time high? 

 FRANCIS: An all-time high. So it`s hard to fault the performance of the stock. 

 VARNEY: Well said. Bruce Francis, thank you -- Willow. 

 BAY: Thanks, Stuart. 

 More disappointment for shareholders of Lucent Technologies. After the bell, the telecom equipment maker missed Wall Street`s already reduced profit estimates. And in after-hours trading, its stock fell 1 1/4 after gaining ground in the regular session. 

 Greg Clarkin has more on what went wrong. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 CLARKIN (voice-over): Two weeks ago, Lucent rocked Wall Street with its first ever profit warning. Today, it posted earnings in line with dramatically reduced expectations. 

 Lucent`s profits excluding special charges, 36 cents a share, one penny below estimates and way below the 54 cents a share expected just a few weeks back, and that`s off 23 percent from year-ago levels. Revenue, $9.9 billion, essentially flat from the year-ago period. The quarter was marred by Lucent`s inability to meet demand for its networking products. 

 DAVID POWERS, ANALYST, EDWARD JONES: Clearly, Lucent has taken its eye off the ball. They`re paying the price right now. However, long term we feel that the company will get back on track. 

 CLARKIN: Lucent said it misjudged shifted buying patterns from customers, phone companies and Internet service providers hungry for fiber optic products. Lucent CEO Richard McGinn has vowed to fix the problems  by the end of the second quarter. But Lucent stock, the most widely held in the country, lost almost a third of its value on the profit warning and investors have been slow to return. 

 ABEL GARCIA, WADDELL & REED: I think we have one more quarter to go. It may pay to be prudent to see that quarter or maybe to get a better outlook  as we go into it. But I think we`re very close. Lucent is a very fine company. 

 CLARKIN: Many analysts believe given six to nine months Lucent should trade back to pre-profit warning levels. While the company battles Cisco and NorTel (URL: http://www.nortelnetworks.com/) , they say the demand for networking equipment is strong. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 CLARKIN: But Lucent has set aggressive growth targets for the second half of the year and what analysts really want to hear now are concrete plans on how Lucent will meet those goals and restore investor confidence to this once high-flying stock -- Willow. 

 BAY: Greg, and their track record which has been so good, does that help them out there any? 

 CLARKIN: You know, Willow, that stellar track record definitely has bought them the benefit of the doubt with some analysts. Who seems to be a little more skeptical in this case are some of the investors who just have not come back to the stock in any big way. 

 BAY: Greg Clarkin, thank you. 

 VARNEY: Well, Lucent was one of the most actively traded stocks today on the big board, it gained 2 1/2 points in the regular trading session, but its strength did little to lift the broader market into the plus column. 

 Susan Lisovicz covered the action all day at the New York Stock Exchange. She joins us now from there with a wrap-up for us -- Susan. 

 LISOVICZ: Hi, Stuart. 

 Well, it was a choppy session at the New York Stock Exchange today, and one that resulted in a triple digit loss for the Dow industrials. The blue chip index lost 138 points to finish the day at  11,351 on volume of 1.1 billion shares. The Dow dropped as many as 214 points, after investors had a knee-jerk reaction to what they perceived as alarmist comments from Fed Governor Laurence Meyer. He talked about risks and imbalances in the economy such as high stock prices. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 LAURENCE MEYER, FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD GOV.: There are a variety of exceptional developments going on that in part help explain where the market is today. And I am not going to -- I am not here going to reach a judgment about whether or not that is an imbalance. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 LISOVICZ: The bond market initially saw Meyers` comments as a sign the Fed would remain vigilant against inflation and prices briefly rallied, but by the end of the day they continued their downward trend, losing 9/32 of a point in price. The yield tonight up to 6.73 percent. But higher interest rates in the bond market once again went unnoticed by high-tech investors. 

 The Nasdaq Composite powered to its second straight record, up 38 points to close at 4,189, 1.8 billion shares changed hands on the Nasdaq`s busiest session ever. Qualcomm (URL: http://www.qualcomm.com/) , one of the stocks behind the rally, up 9 points. But another big name, Intel, fell nearly 4 1/2, one of two big losers on the Dow. The other was Alcoa, which dropped nearly 6 percent after it announced it was increasing its output. Investors worry more supply will push aluminum prices down. 3M and Procter & Gamble also fell sharply as well. 

 All in all, another mixed market today on Wall Street, and one troubling trend: losing issues beat winners on both the big board and the Nasdaq, despite the Nasdaq`s rally -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: Susan, I don`t have a question for you, but I do have a statement. See what you think. The big board pays attention to the Fed and interest rates. The Nasdaq does not. What do you think? 

 LISOVICZ: I think that that`s one of the signs we have seen for a long time. Tech stocks have just been immune to all the other concerns that seem to rattle the old kind of industrial stocks, many of which still sit on the Dow 30. 

 VARNEY: We`re in agreement. Susan Lisovicz at the big board. Thank you, Susan. 

 BAY: On the economic front, we learned today that the U.S. trade deficit just keeps getting bigger. The Commerce Department reported that the gap hit a record in November, ballooning to $26.5 billion. Driving the expansion, wider gaps with western Europe and Taiwan. The U.S. deficit with China and Japan narrowed. 

 VARNEY: Coming up on MONEYLINE, Jim Barksdale joins a very exclusive club, with members like Bill Gates and Ted Turner. We`ll tell you about the big Wall Street names who`ve become big givers. 

 BAY: Plus, General Electric lights up the Street with its fourth-quarter report. We`ll tell you how it did it. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: The No. 2 direct seller of PCs also weighed-in with fourth quarter  earnings late today. After the bell, Gateway met already lowered profit estimates, 42 cents a share. The company blamed fourth-quarter weakness on supply issues and a slowdown in business sales due to Y2K concerns. Its shares down 2 7/8 in after- hours trading tonight. 

 BAY: Sears blew past Wall Street profit forecasts, earning $1.98 a share in the last quarter. Driving the growth, strong showings in its retail and credit businesses. The stock lost nearly 1 3/4. And General Motors beat earnings expectations by a nickel, coming out at $1.86, but profits were down sharply from one year ago, investors still seemed to like what they saw. The stock gained 3/4. 

 VARNEY: And then there`s General Electric. It today reported record-setting fourth quarter revenues and earnings, beating Wall Street`s expectations. For GE, an earnings surprise is no longer much of a surprise. 

 Peter Viles reports. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 VILES (voice-over): As Jack Welch plots his own departure, General Electric is plowing ahead, racking up record annual revenues and record profits of $10.7 billion. And helped by surprising strength at its NBC unit, GE beat Wall Street`s fourth-quarter estimates by a penny. 

 MICHAEL REGAN, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: This company is accomplishing the impossible. They`re growing faster as they get bigger. Earnings growth in 1998, early in the year, was in the mid-13 percent range, closed 1998 in the 14 percent range, accelerated to low-15 percent range early in 1999, and now the fourth quarter of 1999 was up 16 percent. 

 VILES: GE`s profit centers now rival the stand-alone companies they compete against. Its NBC unit posted profits of $1.6 billion, rivaling Disney. Its aircraft engine unit threw off $2.1 billion in profits, beating United Technology. And GE`s biggest profit center, GE Capital, racked up more profits than DLJ, Charles Schwab and J.P. Morgan combined. 

 The report also added fresh numbers to the guessing game over which division head will succeed Welch. The aircraft division, under James McNerney, posted 19 percent profit growth for the year. Medical systems, under Jeffrey Immelt, grew profits by 25 percent. And power systems, under Robert Nardelli, posted 30 percent growth. 

 NICHOLAS HEYMANN, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: They`ve all had fantastic fourth quarters and, you know, 1999 year performances. So you know, to the extent to which there`s any handicapping to be done based on a performance, that`s not evident. 

 VILES: What is evident is that whoever gets the job will inherit a company that is firing on almost every cylinder. Welch has said he will name a replacement later this year and will retire himself in April of 2001. 

 Peter Viles, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: In tonight`s sectors focus, fiber optics. A broad rally in fiber optics companies today. They build the high-capacity telecom networks for broadband data transmission. Driving the rally, JDS Uniphase, which the "Wall Street Journal" today called the Intel of fiber optics. It rocketed nearly 27. CIENA  (URL: http://www.ciena.com/) also gained nearly 5 1/4 after saying it would provide equipment for Global Crossing to expand its British and undersea telecom networks. And Harmonic jumped 9. The company beat earnings forecasts by a dime. Still ahead on MONEYLINE: An Internet pioneer joins the ranks of high-tech moguls turning big wealth into big giving. We`ll hear from Jim Barksdale about his donation to fight illiteracy, after the break. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: In our "MONEYLINE Focus" tonight, a major charitable gift from a major player in the high-tech world. Jim Barksdale, former CEO of Netscape, now head of his own venture capital firm, is donating $100 million to promote literacy in his home state. 

 As Allan Dodds Frank reports, it`s only the latest sign of a growing trend. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 FRANK (voice-over): For Jim and Sally Barksdale, a triumphant return to their home ground, Mississippi, to present an immense gift to promote literacy. 

 BARKSDALE: Sally and I want to make a contribution. I`m going to ask her to help me to fund the Barksdale Reading Institute in the amount of $100 million. 

 (APPLAUSE) 

 FRANK: For those becoming wealthy from the Web, big giving is becoming the new new thing. With the gift, the former CEO of Netscape committed more than 10 percent of his estimated fortune and joined the top rank of new-money millionaires committing bundles to target specific causes. 

 BARKSDALE: Lack of reading is because they can`t read by the third grade. This is a very simple, understandable problem, with a simple, absolutely workable fix. 

 FRANK: Others looking for a specific fix with their money during the last decade: Mike Milken, targeting prostate cancer, Ted Turner, hoping to help the United Nations, and Bill Gates, aiming at new vaccines for Third World children. 

 On the West Coast, Microsoft, the company once at war with Netscape, took the opportunity to announce a $344 million retail value software gift to Intel`s institute that trains teachers. 

 STEVEN BALLMER, CEO, MICROSOFT: This will be the single largest donation that we`ve ever made to an educational cause. 

 FRANK: The United Way believes new donations will be coming from Manhattan`s Silicon Valley. 

 RALPH DICKERSON JR., PRESIDENT, UNITED WAY OF NEW YORK: It might not even be actual cash at this point. We hope that they`ll think about charitable opportunities. The gift today to Ole Miss is an example. It should be a stimulus for all people in the dot-com industry. 

 FRANK: Charity experts say the responsibility that comes with new wealth is sinking in on fortune`s favorites. 

 STACY PALMER, CHRONICLE OF PHILANTHROPY: Now that they`ve had some more time to think about their role in society and gotten used to having  all of this money, I think they are thinking about giving back. 

 FRANK (on camera): One other factor: As the Barksdales often say, there`s only so much money you can give your children. 

 Allan Dodds Frank, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: Earlier, I spoke with Jim Barksdale about his gift to improve literacy. I asked him why he`s so concerned about the country`s schools. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 BARKSDALE: Well, Willow, I`ve got involved in this, along with some other people in the technology industry, through a group we formed in Silicon Valley called Tech Net, which is a group of about 180 CEOs of high-tech companies around the country, and the No. 1 issue every year when we poll our membership, that they want us to work on, lobby for, raise money for, get involved with at state levels and at federal levels is education, because our industry is begging for 300 to 400 more thousand -- 300,000 to 400,000 more workers in our industry. Their skill sets are not there, because they basically have not had the proper education, and then I got involved in this specific initiative, because if you dig deeper, the reason educational improvements are lacking is because children can`t read. And... 

 BAY (on camera): So what will -- sorry. What will the Barksdale Reading Institute then allow you to accomplish? 

 BARKSDALE: Well, within the state of Mississippi, the Reading Institute that we`ve established, working with the State Department of Education and the eight public universities, has funded an effort to put teachers in classrooms who are specially trained reading specialists. It also has an after-school reading program, because the No. 1 thing to teach children to read is time on task. Just like you and I learned from flash cards or whatever how to read, the more time you give children who are most at risk, the more likely you are to pull them up to the level of the class. 

 BAY: Jim, I know you are here to talk about this endowment, but I would be remiss if I didn`t ask you about your reaction to the governments` proposal to break up Microsoft. Do you think that`s an appropriate remedy? 

 BARKSDALE: Now, Willow, here we were talking about education, you asked me about the Microsoft remedy. 

 I think that that is the appropriate recommendation as far as I understand what the government is looking at, which I read like you. That actually is the recommendation that I made when I was the lead- off witness in the case, that they should -- that we should seek structural remedies and relief because that`s the most efficient, the least intrusive by government regulators, and the most likely to succeed. 

 BAY: Yesterday I actually visited USC for a look at new technology developments, and I am curious as to what your take is. What --where will we see the next explosion? 

 BARKSDALE: I think the big explosion is going to be in the whole field of both infrastructure through advances in fiber technology for higher speed, and then through uses -- I think you`re just going to see an explosion in the number of appliances and devices that will have access to the Internet and offer us all sorts of means of getting on it. 

 BAY: Jim Barksdale, thank you for joining us today. We wish you the best of luck with the Barksdale Reading Institute. 

 BARKSDALE: Thank you for your interest, Willow. Thank you. 

 VARNEY: Coming up, late-breaking news in the case of the Wall Street banker and the adult film star. 

 BAY: That story and more in just a moment. Stay with us. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Now for look at some of today`s big movers. 

 VISX  (URL: http://www.visx.com/)  sank more than 13. Several analysts downgraded the stock after the laser technology firm`s revenue fell short of forecasts late yesterday. 

 engage technologies    soared more than 20 1/2 to a new high. It will buy two smaller Internet advertising companies from CMGI (URL: http://www.cmgi.com/) . Engage will pay $2.5 billion in stock, boosting CMGI`s stake in Engage to 87 percent. 

 And Avista  up 7 5/8. An SEC filing shows Bill Gates holds a 5 percent stake in the energy firm. His Cascade Investment Company owns nearly two million shares. 

 VARNEY: Wall Street today gave a thumbs down to Warner-Lambert`s (URL: http://www.warner-lambert.com/) effort to involve Procter & Gamble in fending off a hostile bid from Pfizer. Industry sources confirmed for CNN Financial News last night that Warner-Lambert is trying to forge a three-way deal with Procter & Gamble (URL: http://www.pg.com/)  and American Home Products (URL: http://www.ahp.com/) 

 Well, check those three stocks: Proctor & Gamble down more than 2 3/4; Warner-Lambert was down 2; AHP, though, edged up just a fraction, up 1/8. 

 Federal indictments today in the insider trading case involving investment banker James McDermott and his adult film-star girlfriend. A federal grand jury in New York today filed a 14-count indictment against McDermott, the former CEO of Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, former porn-actress Kathryn Gannon, and to New Jersey businessman Anthony Pomponio. The indictment charges the three with conspiracy and fraud, alleging they participated in a two-year insider trading scheme. If convicted on  all counts, the McDermott, Gannon and Pomponio face five years in prison for the conspiracy charge, ten years for each of the fraud counts, plus fines of $1.25 million each. 

 A report today of possible changes at the top at Disney (URL: http://www.disney.com/) . According to "The Wall Street Journal," Disney`s chief, Michael Eisner, is giving strong consideration to naming Robert Eiger as his No. 2. Mr. Eiger, who is currently ABC group chairman, is married to my colleague Willow Bay. Disney and ABC refuse to comment on the "Journal" report. 

 And here is what`s next: "AHEAD OF THE CURVE," some of what you need to know tonight before tomorrow`s markets open. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Checking some of what could move the markets tomorrow, keep an eye on Lucent Technologies and Gateway, both down in after-hours trading following their earnings reports. 

 Also, watch Sun Microsystems and Inktomi (URL: http://www.inktomi.com) . After the bell, both companies beat forecasts. 

 On tap to report tomorrow: Caterpillar, Diamond Offshore (URL: http://www.diamondoffshore.com/) , and Tribune (URL: http://www.tribune.com/) . 

 And the first IPO of the year is expected to hit Wall Street. Neoforma.com supplies medical equipment on the Internet. 

 That is MONEYLINE for this Thursday. I am Willow Bay in Los Angeles. 

 VARNEY: And I`m Stuart Varney in New York, and we thank you for joining us. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc.  ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by  Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.  No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use  and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or  other proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license  from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material.  This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document mnyl000020010808dw1k0005y




 Lucent Hits Low End Of Range Set In 1st Quarter  Profit Warning 

 By Johnathan Burns 
778 words
20 January 2000
22:02
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Despite posting its second-largest quarter ever in revenue and net income, Lucent Technologies Inc. (LU) still came in below analysts' revised expectations in earnings per share for the first quarter of fiscal year 2000. 

 The Murray Hill, N.J., company said it recorded $9.905 billion in revenue in the first quarter vs. $9.842 billion a year ago. Net income excluding one-time events was $1.175 billion, or 36 cents a share, versus $1.523 billion, or 48 cents a share a year ago. 

 In early January, Lucent guided estimates of its fourth-quarter performance down, saying it would miss the then consensus view of 54 cents, and set a new range of 36 cents to 39 cents a share. 

 A First Call/Thomson Financial survey revealed analysts revised their estimates to the low end, but not to the bottom, with the consensus being 37 cents. 

 "I don't think people will say it's a two-time miss," said Wachovia Securities analyst George Hunt. "They said it would be in that range, and they were in a quiet period when everyone was revising their numbers." 

 Lucent Chief Financial Officer Don Peterson told Dow Jones Newswires in early January that Lucent had "hit a bump in the road." 

 Company executives said then and repeated Thursday that they believe production problems and deployment issues will be corrected by the end of the second quarter. 

 The company also said market conditions are robust and that demand for the world's largest telecommunications equipment company's products is great. 

 When issuing its profit warning, Lucent said it did not anticipate customer demand for more advanced products in the fiber-optic area. 

 "They got beat to the punch pretty dramatically in that area by Nortel Corp. (NT)," Hunt said. "You've got to respect a company that takes blame on themselves instead of blaming the market. By the end of the year, I expect Lucent will close the gap." 

 Hunt agreed with other analysts who said the company must regain its credibility with investors. 

 "I think the majority of why they missed was due to lack of optical products," he said. "But they still make good products." 

 Analysts estimated Lucent missed as much as $400 million in optical equipment sales due to production problems. They also projected the company missed as much as $300 million from decreased software sales - mainly blamed on a lack of competitive local exchange carrier spending - and lost as much as $300 million in wireless equipment sales when an unidentified European service provider cut back on its equipment order. 

 As a result, Wall Street fled the stock in early January when it was trading close to $70. The resulting bail-out to $52 sent Lucent's market cap down by more than $55 billion in the next day's trading. 

 On Thursday, Lucent's shares closed at 53 5/8, up 2 1/2, or 4.9%, on the NYSE. At about 5 p.m., Lucent shares traded at 52 1/2. 

 "I think, at this price, it's a buy," Hunt said. "This is Lucent - they have incredible access to research and development spending." 

 Lucent executives, who began a conference call with analysts about an hour after releasing earnings, must now boost confidence in the company. 

 "The issue now is whether they can convince the Street that they can make the turnaround beginning in the third quarter," said Michael Geran, analyst with Pershing division of Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette. "Basically, they were in line with the revised expectations. Their shortfalls were where they were expected to be." 

 After its profit warning earlier this month, Lucent Chief Executive Richard McGinn said he expected a strong second half of the year. 

 He said he expects the company's fiscal 2000 earnings to increase 20% to 25% from the year-earlier's profit of $1.20 a share. 

 Hunt said one key event to watch in the second quarter is Lucent's shipment of OC-192 product, which substantially boosts the speed at which data travel over fiber-optic networks. 

 "They should be shipping that in February," he said. 

 Nortel has already begun deploying OC-192 capability. 

 Generally, though, analysts expect Lucent to perform well in the fiscal year as the optical networking arena explodes due to upgrades by data and Internet service providers. 


Spending for optical-network equipment, which is a part of Lucent's
business, is expected to surpass $21 billion in 2003.
   - Johnathan Burns; Dow Jones Newswires;
  201-938-2020;johnathan.burns@dowjones.com


Document dj00000020010805dw1k00bo8


 Daily Mail, London, Market Report 

 Geoff Foster 
770 words
20 January 2000
KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Daily Mail - London
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 CENTRICA FIRED UP BY DEAL TALK: Wires buzzed with gossip that a big deal is in the pipeline at Centrica, 2 3/4 pence up at 178 pence. Early rumours suggested a US utility had approached the group with the view to a "friendly" bid. Later on though it was suggested Centrica is about to announce a joint venture with a major telephone network operator. 

 Demerged from British Gas in 1997, Centrica has transformed itself from a single product company into a multi-utility, providing an increasingly diverse range of services -- including the Goldfish credit card, home insurance and plumbing -- to its 17 million customers. It bought the AA breakdown service for UKpound 1.1 billion last September. 

 Chief executive Roy Gardner has been talking to potential telecom partners for months. Centrica moved into the telecoms market via the Goldfish credit card where customers signed up to take advantage of reductions of up to 30 percent on BT's call charges. It is now desperate to extend the cut-price telephone service to the rest of its customer base. 

 Rumours have been rife that Energis, 144 pence off at 2983 pence, will be the partner. Centrica will use Energis' cable network and know-how to supply telephone services. Analysts believe a "sexy" telecom deal would put 25 pence on Centrica's share price. 

 Interest rate worries and a weaker Wall Street dragged the Footsie down a further 59.2 points to 6445.4. News that unemployment dropped to a 20-year low in December and average earnings growth held at 4.9 percent in the three months to November -- above the Bank of England's 4.5 percent pain threshold -- raised expectations of a further 1/4 percent rate hike to 6 percent next month. The Dow Jones fell 71 points in early trading. 

 Rumours that finance director Martin Gatto had left pushed ailing supermarkets group Somerfield 11 pence down to at a low of 71 pence. A spokesman said: "There is no substance to the rumours at all. Martin is still here and currently attending a board meeting." 

 WestLB Panmure's Philip Dorgan's target price is 52 pence. He says current trade has deteriorated significantly and that Somerfield's store disposal programme will fail. He puts the company's real asset value closer to 50 pence. 

 New chief executive Sir Peter Davis's honeymoon period with the City continues. J Sainsbury rose a further 12 pence to 352 pence, making a gain of 48 pence since his appointment last week. 

 Vague rumours of a bid from Carrefour of France left Safeway 14 pence better at 214 pence. 

 A bullish circular from broker Sutherlands helped Shire Pharmaceutical soar 76 pence to 832 1/2 pence. 

 Awaiting confirmation of major anaesthetic deals, drug developer Skyepharma gained 3 3/4 pence to 72 1/2 pence. 

 Telecom equipment tiddler Telspec buzzed 33 pence higher to 133 pence on talk that the long-awaited deal to supply some of its switches to Ericsson, the Swedish mobile phone giant, has been signed. 

 Thus, the former Scottish Telecom, jumped 10 1/2 pence to 391 1/2 pence. Broker Kyte Securities advises clients to buy up to 480 pence. 

 In need of a "get well soon card" following the recent shock profitwarning, Clinton crashed 21 1/2 pence more to 136 pence. Directors led by chairman Don Lewin yesterday bought 230,000 shares at 130 pence. 

 As the company continues to screen-test analysts and fund managers ahead of its launch on February 7, Adam Faith's Money Channel soared 92 pence to a record 500 1/2 pence. Bob Morton's Planit advanced 14 pence to 185 pence as institutions found stock in short supply. 

 IFTE, the fire training equipment group, rose 18 pence to 216 1/2 pence on winning a contract to redevelop fire training facilities for the Royal Australian Air Force. 

 Shares of Ofex-listed Monticello, which takes stakes in Internet start-ups in return for office space, were suspended at 147 1/2 pence after rising 35 pence in response to mega bullish comments from chairman Mark O'Hanlon on an Internet site. 

 O'Hanlon waxed lyrical about a future Aim listing and share price of UKpound 7. John Jenkins, who runs the Ofex market, called a halt to dealings until the comments can be clarified. Dealers expect an announcement today. 

 Mano River Resources, which owns a large portfolio of gold, diamond and base-metal exploration properties in Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea, jumped 7 3/4 pence to 25 pence. 

Document krtbn00020010807dw1k009a4




 Alcatel off amid busy Genesys arbitrage. 

424 words
19 January 2000
13:02
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 PARIS, Jan 19 (Reuters) - Shares in Alcatel  lost more ground on Wednesday, under pressure from arbitrage ahead of the final terms of its share-swap with U.S. telecoms software provider Genesys Telecommunications. 

 By 1228 GMT the stock was down 2.2 percent at 201 euros in hefty turnover of 302 million euros, a sixth of the total CAC volume, while the blue-chip CAC-40 showed a loss of 1.4 percent. 

 Sources added Alcatel remained under pressure from rumours of a profit-warning, though this was denied by the company at the beginning of the week. 

 Last September Alcatel announced it had signed an agreement to buy San Francisco-based Genesys in an all-stock deal valued at $1.5 billion. It offered Genesys stockholders 1.667 Alcatel American Depositary Receipts (ADR) for each Genesys share. 

 Alcatel ADRs are currently worth $41, which values Genesys shares at around $68 and offers a premium of 30 percent given the U.S. company's share price of around $52 on Tuesday. 

 However, a clause in the initial agreement said that in case of any sharp rise in Alcatel stock, the ratio of the share-swap could be adjusted down. 

 One analyst noted that Alcatel had been hit by arbitrage in favour of Genesys for the last two days, ahead of the expiry on Friday of the period set to determine the final terms. 

 But other sources said that was not the only reason for the share's fall, though it explained the heavy turnover. 

 "From the moment this kind of deal is agreed there is always a lot of arbitrage. But for me the fall is based on fundamentals," said one trader, referring to market talk of a profit-warning which Alcatel denied on Monday. 

 Several brokers including Julius Baer and Morgan Stanley cut their forecasts for Alcatel's fourth quarter sales after being contacted by the company, but Alcatel stated it had made no changes to its 1999 forecasts. 

 "The analysts called were those with the most optimistic forecasts, but from what I hear they are not all convinced by Alcatel's explanations," said one fund manager on Wednesday. 

 "Every time there are rumours of a profit-warning, even if they are unfounded, people remember the way the stock fell 38 percent following a warning in September 1998," added another. 

 ((Veronique Tison, Paris markets team, Paris newsroom + 33 1 4221 5278, fax + 33 1 4236 1072, paris.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010820dw1j03d8w




 Xerox Unveils Strategy To Hone In On Digital, Paper Document Markets 

214 words
18 January 2000
19:38
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Xerox Corp., citing expected growth in the digital and paper document markets, Tuesday announced a strategy to focus on those markets. 

 The Stamford, Conn.-based document company said it will align its business with market areas showing a growth-rate of more than 10% a year. 

 Xerox added that it will increase its participation in the high end of the market with industry-specific systems, expand its outsourcing business, and develop new products and services for the low end of the business. 

 Just last month, Xerox shocked Wall Street when it issued a warning that its fourth-quarter profit would fall far short of expectations, citing a host of problems. Among them: corporations putting off technology spending because of worries about year 2000 glitches, turmoil in Brazil and a poorly executed reorganization of its sales force. 

 Far down the list of reasons Xerox gave, and mentioned only briefly: intensifying competition. Yet some analysts say that is a more serious long-term problem for the company. Analysts are focusing on rivals' efforts to cut into Xerox's (XRX) domination of the corporate copy machine, especially the newer digital copiers. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dw1i00x2i




 BUSINESS 
 CREATING A NEW KFORCE ON THE NET Series: COVER STORY 

 KYLE PARKS 
2,672 words
17 January 2000
St. Petersburg Times
STPT
SOUTH PINELLAS
8E
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 Romac International has spent $30-million to remake itself into Kforce.com. CEO David Dunkel sees the future of his Tampa staffing company on the Internet, but investors and the stock market haven't been so sure.   In April, David Dunkel took nine of his most trusted advisers on a two-day retreat to his New Hampshire mountain farm. The 350-acre spread looks down on the lake where the movie On Golden Pond was filmed. Adding to the rustic feel, Dunkel keeps 25 buffalo there.   But this was no vacation. Dunkel, chief executive of Romac International Inc., was devising a bold plan that could take the Tampa staffing company to new heights - or send it crashing down. The plan: Romac would spend $30-million in six months moving its business to the Internet, with an expensive ad campaign touting a new company name: Kforce.com.   The risks were huge. Romac was throwing away a company name that took 34 years to build. And investors were sure to wonder why Romac had to do all of this at once. 

  After all, this was no Internet start-up with nothing to lose. It was a successful company with 2,300 employees and $750-million in annual revenues.   "I knew it wasn't going to be pretty," Dunkel said. "And I knew there would be serious consequences."   Were there ever. After Dunkel announced the initiative in June, Romac's stock tanked. By October, it fell below $6 a share, down from a 1998 high of $32. Dunkel, who holds a 7 percent stake in the company, saw his own stock lose as much as $83-million in value.   Dunkel has spent the past six months doing damage control, reassuring everyone from institutional investors to his employees that the plan will pay off. Now, with the $30-million spent and new technology in place, Dunkel is ready to take another high-stakes gamble.   This time, Romac is placing a $4.5- million bet on the Super Bowl.   That's about how much the company will spend on Jan. 30, Super Bowl Sunday, running four 30-second commercials. It's a risky bid to give Kforce.com as much name recognition as Internet job-posting outfits Monster.com and Hotjobs.com.   Will it pay off? More than 10 other dot-com companies also plan commercials before and during the football game, and many marketing experts think there will be too much "clutter."    Dunkel knows what's at stake - the future of his company. "No guts, no glory," he said.    Five years ago, Dunkel wasn't shy in telling colleagues what he thought of the Internet. "It will never really affect the staffing business," he would say.   Certainly, Romac got along without online help. Since leading a group that bought Romac in 1994 and later took it public, Dunkel, 45, has grown the company into one of the Tampa Bay area's largest.   He did it by emphasizing people-to-people relationships. Romac recruiters in 109 offices across the country seek out white-collar job hunters, then match them with employers that pay a commission on each hire. It has concentrated on placing personnel such as information technology specialists and accountants, mostly on a temporary or contract basis. But in the past two years, the rules have changed. More employers and job seekers are using Web bulletin boards such as Monster.com and Hotjobs.com, bypassing staffing professionals.   In fall 1998, Dunkel asked one of his executives for a report on the Internet and the staffing industry. The upshot: a warning that staffing companies needed to get on the Internet to cut costs and make job hunting more convenient. "I read that and said, 'Uh, oh,' " Dunkel recalled.   So Dunkel, whose father was a founder of the company, decided Romac would build a new model, combining an established company with the entrepreneurial mind-set of a fledgling dot-com company. Romac calls the concept "bricks and clicks."   Job seekers and employers would post online videos touting what they offer. But the company also would convince people that its employment counselors offer something bulletin boards can't - personalized help and advice. Anyone applying for a job on the company's Web site can consult with a counselor by e- mail, by calling an 800 number or by visiting an office in person. "Does a bulletin board tell you what your options are?" Dunkel said. "Does it give you suggestions on how to improve your resume? No." The plan revolved around a new name for the company, Kforce.com, which is to become official at the annual meeting in May. The name, with its high-tech sheen, was derived from Romac's pitch that today's work force is a sophisticated "knowledge force."   By doing all that, Romac hoped to attract Web surfers while protecting its own turf against Internet upstarts. None of its competitors, such as Robert Half International Inc. and Manpower Inc., have moved as fast to the Internet, though several are planning major initiatives.   By June, Dunkel was ready to announce his plan to the world. The reaction was swift and, for Romac, terrifying.   As earnings dived due to the Kforce.com start-up costs, some institutional investors fled immediately. Dunkel had to visit others, such as Dresdner RCM Global Investors in San Francisco, to convince them to give him a chance. It got so bad that Dunkel got a letter from his retired father, Al. "You'd think I'd get a letter saying, 'It's okay, son, your mother and I support you,' " Dunkel said. "Instead, I get something that says, 'What's wrong with you? You're not looking out for the investors. Get back to work!' "   In this topsy-turvy investment world, Internet start-ups command sky-high stock prices while established manufacturers and service companies watch their stock suffer.   When Romac launched its Internet initiative, it brought out some of Wall Street's biggest fears. To begin with, Romac is "cannibalizing" its revenues by moving its business online.   The company will charge lower fees for employers using the new Web site. And employers posting jobs online can pay for specific services, instead of paying the staffing industry's traditional flat fee. By "unbundling" its fees, the company expects to attract more customers - and more revenues - but at the risk that some customers that had been willing to pay the higher price will jump at the chance to cut their costs.   At the same time, the company is entering a sophisticated Internet arena in which it has no experience.   "Their challenge now is in execution," said Judith Scott, an analyst with Robert Baird & Co. Inc. in Milwaukee. "In a way, it's a curse for them. They've been so good at making money; now they have to show that this will make them even more money."   Clayton Christiansen, a Harvard Business School professor, says companies such as Romac have no choice but to change with the times, no matter how painful the process. Christiansen wrote a 1997 book, The Innovator's Dilemma: When New Technologies Cause Great Firms to Fail, that describes how every company must evolve or die.   "Times change so dramatically, but no one seems to remember," Christiansen said. "Back in the '60s, for instance, people looked at Sears the way they look at Microsoft today. But then discount retailers came in."   The problem with many CEOs, he said, is that they react to what customers and investors want in the short term - such as consistently strong earnings - at the expense of what needs to be done for the future. After all, it's tough for a CEO to embrace a business strategy that carries millions of dollars in start-up costs while eroding his company's traditional revenue stream.   Christiansen's ideas were featured in a recent Fortune magazine story. It cited Romac, Charles Schwab, PetSmart and Eastman Kodak among examples of companies that are cannibalizing their businesses to prepare for the future. Schwab and PetSmart are taking orders online, while Kodak is moving into digital imaging of photos. Christiansen calls it "survival by suicide."    But this grand talk about being ahead of the curve won't mean much if Romac doesn't make its initiative count where it needs to count most - in its revenue figures.    Again and again, Dunkel has met with institutional investors and stock analysts in recent months trying to convince them he really does know what he's doing. It's starting to pay off: Wall Street is showing signs of warming up to Romac.   Three analysts, including Baird's Scott and Raymond James & Associates' Mercedes Sanchez, have upgraded their recommendations to "buy." To find out more about the company, Sanchez went through Romac's new online recruiting process, taping a video pitch for herself.   Now, the stock is trading at about $13 a share; it has doubled since October. On Friday, Romac stock closed at  $14, down 6.25 cents. But four of the eight analysts covering Romac still have a "hold" on the stock. One of them is Fran Blechman Bernstein of Merrill Lynch. "They have to get their name known, and they have to show revenue growth in 2000," she said. "At this point, it's still an unknown on how well they are going to do."   Dunkel also has been working hard to sell his vision to his employees.   Many found it difficult to stay confident about the future as their daily tasks were being transformed by the company's radical reorientation. Staffers in field offices have worried about losing their jobs, while Dunkel and his managers have had to tell everyone that yes, we are in a hurry, and no, we can't do this at a deliberate pace.   "We had a managers meeting and I walked in saying, 'Welcome to Rocket Science 101,' " Dunkel said. "I told them, 'Most of you think I have lost my mind, and I probably have, but let me explain what we're doing.' " Executives have worked on improving communication with employees, a challenge in a far-flung operation. Two weeks ago, Romac held a video conference for employees across the country. Romac rented 30 movie theaters so workers could watch Dunkel talk from the Tampa Theatre; they even got popcorn and soft drinks.   Dunkel also has reshaped Romac's executive team. In the past six months, he has brought in five new senior executives who are well-versed in technology or marketing, some of them replacing less tech-savvy veterans. Romac president James Swartz left in October after it became clear that he wouldn't fit into the new strategy.   Now, Romac's fate rests largely on its marketing plan. The company has doubled its ad budget this year from last year's $12-million. And the big concern is whether the Super Bowl ad gamble will pay off.   If the ads don't get lost in the glut of dot-com advertising, thousands of new customers could go to the site. Within a year, Romac predicts most of its business will be conducted through the Web, up from less than 5 percent today.   The company is projected to lose 14 cents a share in 1999 once the final quarter's results are tallied. But analysts expect it will make a profit of 53 cents a share in 2000. Dunkel said he is comfortable with that projection.   Analysts also project that Romac will bring in revenues of $850-million to $900-million this year. But the company expects to reach $1-billion in revenue, with business on the Internet making the difference. Wall Street will be watching the numbers closely through the year.   Dunkel, a gregarious sort who heads a rock 'n roll band of Romac execs and has a picture of the Three Stooges at his desk, shows no signs of being discouraged, even though he's been through a hellish six months.   Still, friends and business associates say he has learned lessons from the ordeal, such as realizing that he needed new management help to take Romac to the next level.   "Either you believe in your vision or you don't," Dunkel said. "I will virtually guarantee that a year from now, you'll be asking the other staffing companies why they haven't done this. . . . If it doesn't work, you can throw me out."- Times researcher John Martin contributed to this report.David DunkelJob: Chairman and chief executive of Romac International Inc., soon to be renamed Kforce.com.Age: 45.Education: B.S. in accounting, M.B.A. in finance from Babson College in Wellesley, Mass.Work background: Started at Coopers & Lybrand accounting firm in 1977, then joined his father, Al, at Romac in 1980. Florida holding company for Romac franchisees was called FMA, which stood for Future Millionaires of America. Led group that bought out company in 1994.Compensation: About $2.14- million in 1998, though an estimated $1.4-million of that was in stock options that can't be exercised unless Romac's share price goes above $22.37 1/2.Lives: In historic South Tampa house where U.S. Rep. Sam Gibbons and his wife were married.Family: Wife Maureen Rorech Dunkel is a former Romac executive best known for buying and then organizing a North American tour for 13 of Princess Diana's gowns. Their blended family has six children ages 8 to 14 - five boys and a girl.Enjoys: Playing in his rock band, Shepherd's View, which also includes four Romac execs; traveling every few weeks to his 350-acre mountain farm in New Hampshire.Management style: "I believe in hiring the best people, telling them what I expect and then getting out of the way."Romac International Inc.BASED: Tampa.WHAT IT DOES: The staffing company helps workers find jobs and employers fill them, with the focus on white-collar work in information technology, finance and health care. About 80 percent of the company's placements are for temporary or contract workers; the rest are permanent employees.EMPLOYEES: 2,300, with 600 in Tampa.; with 109 offices across the country.THE NAME CHANGE: If shareholders approve at May's annual meeting, the company will change its name to Kforce.com, reflecting its move to the Internet.HOW IT STARTED: Romac was founded in 1966 in Portland, Maine by two former IBM marketing execs who saw the demand for workers to run the mainframe computers they were selling. Idea for the first company logo, a griffin, came from a Lowenbrau beer bottle. CEO David Dunkel led a group of investors that bought out the company in 1994 and put its headquarters in Tampa.REVENUES: $750-million. Company hopes to hit annual revenues of $1-billion this year.NET INCOME: Analysts project a loss of 14 cents a share for 1999, according to First Call, but expect Romac to earn 53 cents a share in 2000.STOCK: ROMC on Nasdaq. Share price took a beating last summer and fall, falling below $6 in October, but has been rebounding in recent weeks as three analysts have upgraded their recommendations to "buy." It closed Friday at $14.NEW HEADQUARTERS: Company starts construction soon on $35-million complex in Ybor City. Dunkel decided to stay in Tampa after deciding a move to Orlando would be too disruptive, and after getting a big pitch from Tampa mayor Dick Greco. 

 Caption: An image from Romac International's Kforce.com ad which will premiere during the Super Bowl broadcast Jan. 30. (ran pg. 1E); David Dunkel, Romac International's CEO; A TV ad for Romac touting its new name, Kforce.com.;  Rendering of the planned; headquarters complex in Ybor City.;  Graph illustrating Romac International's stock since 1995.; Photo: COLOR PHOTO; COLOR PHOTO, JIM STEM; COLOR PHOTO, Romac International Inc.; BLACK AND WHITE DRAWING, Romac International Inc.; BLACK AND WHITE GRAPH 

Document stpt000020010813dw1h0029k




 Analytical Surveys Cuts Work Force Through Reliance On Indian Firm 

383 words
17 January 2000
14:36
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 INDIANAPOLIS -(Dow Jones)- Analytical Surveys Inc., a producer of computerized maps and information files used in geographic information systems, Monday said it has cut its work force by about 18% by shifting more data conversion work to its Indian affiliate, Infotech Enterprises Ltd. 

 Indianapolis-based Analytical Surveys (ANLT) said it now has about 905 employees. The company said its expanded use of Infotech's services has reduced its reliance on domestic conversion capacity. 

 The cost of using Infotech is "well below" the cost for similar services in the U.S., the company said. 

 Analytical Surveys said restructuring its data-conversion capacity will bring down production costs, improve its financial performance and allow its domestic resources to focus on new services and research and development. 

 The company also it considered the costs associated with the work-force reduction and the expected improvements in production expenses when it issued a profit warning for 2000 a couple of months ago. 

 On Nov. 11, Analytical Surveys said it expected earnings per share for the first fiscal quarter ended Dec. 31, 1999, to fall 80% from a year earlier. The company also projected second-quarter earnings to fall 20%, third-quarter to climb 15% and fourth-quarter earnings to increase 35%. 

 The company earned $2.3 million, or 32 cents a diluted share, on revenue of $28.2 million in the year-ago first quarter. Earnings came to $2.7 million, or 36 cents a diluted share, in the year-ago second quarter; $3.02 million, or 42 cents a diluted share, in the third; and $1.40 million, or 19 cents a diluted share in the fourth quarter ended Sept. 30, 1999. 

 On Dec. 30, however, Analytical Surveys adjusted downward its reported financial results for the prior fiscal year based on a review of cost-of-completion assumptions. 

 As a result, the originally forecasted a drop of about 80% in first quarter earnings per share would become a drop of about 34%-to-47%, and the forecasted rise in fourth quarter earnings per share of about 35% would become a rise of about 250%. The second and third quarter forecasts weren't affected by the revision. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dw1h00uog




 RESEARCH ALERT - Merrill sees Dell Q4 in danger. 

397 words
14 January 2000
17:12
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 14 (Reuters) - With two weeks left in its fourth quarter, Dell Computer Corp.  could still fail to meet earnings expectations as higher component costs cut gross margins on products, Merrill Lynch said on Friday. 

 In a research note to Merrill clients, analyst Steve Fortuna revived recent concerns that Dell could be in danger of an earnings shortfall - a view that remains hotly disputed on Wall Street, with some analysts rallying to Dell's defence. 

 "The fact that Dell has not yet pre-announced to us does not suggest that the quarter is any safer than it was before," Fortuna said. 

 However, shares of Dell gained 2-1/4 to 45-3/8 amid a wave of enthusiasm that sent PC chipmaker Intel's shares up nearly 14 points to 105 after its better-than-expected fourth quarter earnings report Thursday and its solid year 2000 outlook. 

 Still, Fortuna argued that despite recent drops in computer memory price, "Dell continues to face an execution challenge in Q4 (fourth quarter) due to generally higher component costs across the board." 

 He said that Dell was unlikely to compromise its competitive position by becoming less aggressive on PC pricing. "As a result, if Dell were to miss the quarter, we believe it will be primarily due to lower gross margins," he wrote. 

 If Dell was to pre-announce an earnings shortfall, Fortuna speculated that the announcement would come in the third or the fourth week of January and not in the days preceding the February 10 earnings release. 

 Such a scenario would be a replay in key respects of the company's third quarter warning that it expected profit margins to fall due to a spike in computer memory chip prices at the time. That warning was issued by the company on Oct. 18. 

 Dell went on to meet Wall Street's lowered expectations following the shortfall announcement in its third quarter report issued November 11. 

 Fortuna said he estimated Dell's fourth quarter sales would grow 37 percent year over year to $7.1 billion, on the soft side of Wall Street expectations and below historic rates of growth. He projected earnings per share of 20 cents, compared with the consensus Wall Street view of 21 cents. 

 ((-Eric Auchard, New York newsdesk, 212-859-1840)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw1e00y7r




 Lucent Stock Drops On Rumors Of SEC Accounting Probe 

616 words
14 January 2000
19:42
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Shares of Lucent Technologies Inc., the most widely held in the U.S., fell Friday on unconfirmed rumors that federal regulators are scrutinizing the telecom-equipment giant's accounting, perhaps as part of a broad review of companies' handling of revenue recognition and acquisition expenses. 

 Murray Hill, N.J.-based Lucent (LU) said it isn't aware of any inquiry. The Securities and Exchange Commission said it "can't confirm or deny" rumors about a possible Lucent inquiry. Still, options trading pits in Chicago to trading desks in New York are awash with rumors about an SEC investigation. 

 Lucent's (LU) stock lost $3.25, or 5.8%, to close at $53 on volume of 48.2 million shares, compared with average daily turnover of 16.5 million. Major Wall Street firms were buying thousands of put options on Lucent's stock, betting the stock would fall. 

 But analysts say they have no evidence that would corroborate talk of an SEC investigation. Some said that given the company's huge revenue shortfall in the fourth quarter, a probe wouldn't come as a surprise. "Any time you have a big disappointment like that, I'm sure there is somebody who takes at least a cursory look," said Donaldson Lufkin Jenrette analyst Eric Buck. 

 He cited revenue recognition as a possible regulatory sticking point, a practice that involves unscrupulous companies shifting revenue between quarters to avoid missing Wall Street financial estimates. 

 Buck, however, said he doesn't believe Lucent is "doing anything illegal or against generally accepted accounting practices." 

 Other analysts weren't persuaded, either. "People have been talking about that for two years," said A.G. Edwards analyst David Heger of Lucent's accounting. "It seems to me the cat's already out of the bag on that one." 

 Heger said issues which have periodically arisen regarding the company's books include pension accruals, revenue recognition and the ways in which Lucent offers financing to its customers. 

 David Tice, an analyst and manager of the Prudent Bear Fund, a Dallas-based hedge fund specializing in short selling, said he wrote about Lucent's accounting in a November issue of his newsletter. "We have a negative opinion on some of (Lucent's) quality of earnings issues," said Tice. 

 Tice gained fame last year as the analyst who, after issuing a report critical of Tyco Inc.'s accounting practices, sparked an SEC investigation into that company. Tice declined to comment further on the content of his previous reports on Lucent. 

 Lucent's stock has fallen sharply since the one-time AT&T Corp. unit shocked Wall Street with a fourth-quarter profit warning last week. The firm blamed shifts in customer demand and a failure to anticipate those shifts. 

 One of the rumors floating on Wall Street said Lucent is part of an ongoing SEC inquiry about companies writing off acquired research and development expenses instead of amortizing them. That inquiry is believed to involve many companies. As such, some analysts believe the gloomier rumors were started by short sellers and others who placed bets that Lucent's stock would fall further after last week's drop. 

 Also Friday, a group of Lucent holders filed a class-action lawsuit against the company, a typical move by disgruntled investors in the wake of steep stock-price drops. The suit, which claims Lucent violated securities laws by not disclosing its weaker-than-expected quarter in a timely manner, is another in a parade of litigation filed against the company in response to the profit warning. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dw1e00tqn




 Sainsbury CEO Steps Down In Wake Of Investor Pressure 

 By Anthony Dovkants 
549 words
14 January 2000
13:14
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 LONDON -(Dow Jones)- Following months of pressure from institutional investors for a new chief executive at J. Sainsbury PLC (U.SBR), Dino Adriano is stepping down. 

 Peter Davis, the chief executive of life assurer Prudential PLC (U.PRU) who was set to become chairman in May, is taking up the challenge of turning around the fortunes of the U.K.'s second largest supermarket chain. 

 The confirmation of Adriano's departure, which was combined with a warning that profit for the year ended Dec. 31 would come in at the low end of market expectations following higher costs, has come as little surprise to industry watchers. 

 Sainsbury's now expects pretax profit before exceptionals to come in between GBP560 million and GBP610 million. Exceptional costs are expected to be around GBP60 million. Analysts were forecasting as much as GBP728 million. 

 Adriano's position has been in doubt since October when the majority of Sainsbury's shareholders told Chairman George Bull that they wanted a new CEO. At the time, the stock was in decline and the strategy at the company's supermarket chain wasn't working in the face of fierce competition from rivals Asda and Tesco PLC (U.TSC). Adriano is leaving in March after three years in the job and 35 years at the company. 

 "When I made a number of management changes in October, I spoke to our shareholders and the majority of them were in favor of a more radical approach including a new CEO," Bull told Dow Jones Newswires. 

 While Davis is yet to fill the hot seat, market expectations are already high. Shares were up as much 8.8% Friday before settling back to 14 pence higher, or 4.6% at 318.50 pence by 1312 GMT. Analysts said Sainsbury may head towards 350 pence near-term on prospects of reviving fortunes following the management change. 

 Davis is credited with transforming Prudential - a lumbering door-to-door pensions and life assurance group - into a cutting edge financial services provider with a fast-growing Internet business. 

 The soon-to-be CEO has a three year contract with Sainsbury and his spot at Prudential is being filled by Roger Hurn - deputy chairman of Glaxo Wellcome PLC (GLX). 

 His salary will total GBP750,000 a year, with a bonus of up to 50%. He also has performance-related options that are worth four times his salary. 

 Investors, however, will have to wait until May before Davis sets out his vision for the company and reverse the declining annual sales performance at its main supermarkets chain. 

 At Sainsbury's core supermarket chain, sales excluding the impact of new store space was down 0.3% over the year to Jan. 8. During the third quarter to Jan. 8, like-for-like sales were up 2%, while total sales improved 4%. 

 Homebase, Sainsbury's home improvement chain, improved its like-for-like sales performance by 13.6% during the quarter. And the U.S. supermarkets arm, Shaw's, improved total sales by 31.6%, however, like-for-like sales grew 2.90% in the third quarter. 

 -By Anthony Dovkants;44-171-842-9272 

 anthony.dovkants@dowjones.com 

 (Catherine Taylor in London also contributed to this report.) 

Document djon000020020330dw1e00t4d




 Sainsbury CEO Steps Down In Wake Of Investor Pressure 

 By Anthony Dovkants 
549 words
14 January 2000
13:14
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 LONDON -(Dow Jones)- Following months of pressure from institutional investors for a new chief executive at J. Sainsbury PLC (U.SBR), Dino Adriano is stepping down. 

 Peter Davis, the chief executive of life assurer Prudential PLC (U.PRU) who was set to become chairman in May, is taking up the challenge of turning around the fortunes of the U.K.'s second largest supermarket chain. 

 The confirmation of Adriano's departure, which was combined with a warning that profit for the year ended Dec. 31 would come in at the low end of market expectations following higher costs, has come as little surprise to industry watchers. 

 Sainsbury's now expects pretax profit before exceptionals to come in between GBP560 million and GBP610 million. Exceptional costs are expected to be around GBP60 million. Analysts were forecasting as much as GBP728 million. 

 Adriano's position has been in doubt since October when the majority of Sainsbury's shareholders told Chairman George Bull that they wanted a new CEO. At the time, the stock was in decline and the strategy at the company's supermarket chain wasn't working in the face of fierce competition from rivals Asda and Tesco PLC (U.TSC). Adriano is leaving in March after three years in the job and 35 years at the company. 

 "When I made a number of management changes in October, I spoke to our shareholders and the majority of them were in favor of a more radical approach including a new CEO," Bull told Dow Jones Newswires. 

 While Davis is yet to fill the hot seat, market expectations are already high. Shares were up as much 8.8% Friday before settling back to 14 pence higher, or 4.6% at 318.50 pence by 1312 GMT. Analysts said Sainsbury may head towards 350 pence near-term on prospects of reviving fortunes following the management change. 

 Davis is credited with transforming Prudential - a lumbering door-to-door pensions and life assurance group - into a cutting edge financial services provider with a fast-growing Internet business. 

 The soon-to-be CEO has a three year contract with Sainsbury and his spot at Prudential is being filled by Roger Hurn - deputy chairman of Glaxo Wellcome PLC (GLX). 

 His salary will total GBP750,000 a year, with a bonus of up to 50%. He also has performance-related options that are worth four times his salary. 

 Investors, however, will have to wait until May before Davis sets out his vision for the company and reverse the declining annual sales performance at its main supermarkets chain. 

 At Sainsbury's core supermarket chain, sales excluding the impact of new store space was down 0.3% over the year to Jan. 8. During the third quarter to Jan. 8, like-for-like sales were up 2%, while total sales improved 4%. 

 Homebase, Sainsbury's home improvement chain, improved its like-for-like sales performance by 13.6% during the quarter. And the U.S. supermarkets arm, Shaw's, improved total sales by 31.6%, however, like-for-like sales grew 2.90% in the third quarter. 

 -By Anthony Dovkants;44-171-842-9272 

 anthony.dovkants@dowjones.com 

 (Catherine Taylor in London also contributed to this report.) 

Document dji0000020010805dw1e006pi


 Fashion Designer Tommy Hilfiger Issues  Profit Warning 

 Judith Schoolman 
362 words
14 January 2000
KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Daily News - New York City
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 Chalk up another fashion victim. 

 Tommy Hilfiger, the one-time king of urban fashion, has lost his crown to the likes of Abercrombie & Fitch, Old Navy and FUBU. 

 Once hotter than hot, now colder than yesterday's mashed potatoes, Tommy Hilfiger warned yesterday that profits for the last three months of 1999 and the first three of this year will be below expectations, largely due to broader than expected discounting. 

 The news set off a blizzard of selling in Tommy stock. It plunged 18 percent, or 3 7/16, to close at $15.75 yesterday, far below its 52-week low of $19.12 and 62 percent below its high of $41.06. 

 "We are very disappointed with our performance at retail during this past holiday season," CEO Joel Horowitz said in a statement. The company added that it is "fully committed to enhancing long-term shareholder value" and would have more details in the coming weeks. 

 Menswear and women's sportswear were particularly hard hit, Horowitz said. The company, named for its designer, also licenses Tommy Girl women's fragrances, eyeglass frames and shoes. 

 Retailing analysts and some shoppers said Tommy Hilfiger lost its draw as a fashion look during the past year because the clothes stopped featuring the signature flag motif and large "Tommy" logos. 

 "I liked the logo and the flags," said 22-year-old Robert Diaz of the Bronx, as he came out of Old Navy in midtown Manhattan yesterday. "It says something to younger people who don't mind looking like advertisements," said Diaz, wearing a North Face jacket but sporting a Tommy Hilfiger medallion on his backpack. 

 Among teens and young adults, the mainstay of Tommy's urban audience, the look is now Old Navy, the more expensive Abercrombie & Fitch, or the hip-hop favorite, FUBU. 

 "No Tommy for me," said Paula Hansen, 40, of Mariner's Harbor on Staten Island. "I'm not a label person." 

 Because of waning popularity in both men's and women's clothes, Tommy Hilfiger cut many of its prices at department stores during the holidays, slashing into profits. 

Document krtbn00020010807dw1e008bm




 U.S. stocks in positive territory at midday. 

 By Amy Collins 
828 words
13 January 2000
17:35
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 13 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks were up at midday on Thursday after a new report showed inflation is under control, calming fears the Federal Reserve might aggressively hike interest rates at the beginning of February. 

 Internet, banking, telecommunications and oil driller stocks led the market up while transportation and semiconductor equipment makers were sliding. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average was up 17 points, or 0.15 percent, at 11,568. Among Dow components Microsoft Corp. was down 3-3/8 at 102-7/16 but JP Morgan & Co. Inc. was up 2-3/4 at 122-3/8. 

 The technology-rich Nasdaq Composite index was up 26 points, or 0.68 percent, at 3,876, after rising more than 2 percent within minutes of the opening bell. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 index was up 6 points, or 0.47 percent, at 1,438. 

 The U.S. Treasury 30-year bond, which has pressured stocks amid investor fears of an aggressive Federal Reserve interest rate hike next month, was up 5/32 with its yield declining to 6.68 percent. The yield closed at 6.72 percent on Wednesday, its highest level since July 1997. 

 "Higher interest rates are just going to make the market very heavy and sluggish," said Richard Cripps, the chief market strategist at Legg Mason Wood Walker in Baltimore. "The momentum we had is sort of topping out because of interest rates." 

 In morning economic news, the December producer price index, an indicator of inflation at the wholesale level, increased 0.3 percent, matching expectations. The core rate, which excludes volatile food and energy components, grew 0.1 percent, also in line with the average forecast. 

 "These numbers fit into the scenario that keeps the Fed at 25 basis points at its next meeting. Inflation at the wholesale level is in line," said Alan Ackerman, the senior vice president and market strategist for Fahnestock & Co. 

 Wall Street is expecting a February rate hike of at least a quarter percentage point, plus another quarter point in February or March. 

 Retail sales were slightly stronger than expected for December, rising 1.2 percent compared with the 1 percent expected by economists polled by Reuters. Excluding autos, retail sales rose by 1.4 percent, the biggest rise since April 1996. 

 Analysts said trading volume may slow in the afternoon, in anticipation of evening remarks from Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan. He was scheduled to deliver a speech on technology and the economy at the Economic Club of New York. 

 "Traders are going to be hesitant ahead of Mr. Greenspan," said Bill Meehan, the chief market analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald in Darien, Conn. 

 Advancing stocks outpaced declines by 15 to 11 with more than 444 million shares traded on the New York Stock Exchange. There were 70 stocks at new highs and 42 at new lows. 

 In corporate news, Warner-Lambert Co. said its board authorised talks with Pfizer Inc. In doing so, it jeopardises its $53.8 billion merger plans with American Home Products Corp. 

 Pfizer was up 5/8 at 35-11/16, Warner-Lambert was down 1/16 at 86-3/4 and AHP was up 1-9/16 at 43-3/4. 

 UAL Corp., the parent of United Airlines, issued a profit warnings and saw its stock dip 9-3/8 to 65-3/8. 

 Applied Materials Inc., the world's largest maker of semiconductor manufacturing equipment, said it would buy Etec Systems Inc. in a stock deal valued at about $1.8 billion. Applied Materials was down 5-15/16 at 121-1/8 and Etec was up 23-13/16 at 73-11/16. 

 U.S. Trust was up 39-7/16 at 118-5/16 after the world's largest discount broker, Charles Schwab Corp., said it would buy the 147-year-old investment management firm to form a full-service brokerage. Schwab was down 1-9/16 at 36-1/16. 

 Clothing retailer Tommy Hilfiger was down 3-3/16 at 16 after it issued a third-quarter profit warning, citing pricing pressure for a disappointing season. Both Morgan Stanley Dean Witter and Merrill Lynch cut their investment rating on the stock. 

 Intel Corp., which was expected to report quarterly earnings after the market closed, was down 15/16 at 90-5/16. 

 Apple Computer was up 7-1/16 at 94-1/4 after Morgan Stanley Dean Witter raised its rating on the computer maker to outperform from neutral and Credit Suisse First Boston raised its full-year earnings expectations for the company. 

 Internet audio company RealNetworks was up 15-1/2 at 141-3/4 after Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown started coverage of the stock with a strong buy rating and set an 18-month price target of $250. 

 ((Wall Street Newsdesk +212 859 1730)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw1d02cny




 FOCUS-Tommy Hilfiger plunges on  profit warning . 

 By Denise Duclaux 
524 words
13 January 2000
21:38
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 13 (Reuters) - Tommy Hilfiger Corp. , the casual clothing maker whose red, white and blue designer logo has become a fashion statement in its own right, said Thursday third-and fourth-quarter earnings would land shy of expectations, driving its stock down almost 18 percent. 

 The company, whose fans span rappers, teens and baby boomers, said hefty price reductions and promotions within department stores would put an end to its long-standing winning streak. Hong Kong-based Tommy Hilfiger had beaten Wall Street's projections for about 25 consecutive quarters. 

 "We are very disappointed with our performance at retail during this past holiday season," said Chief Executive Joel Horowitz in a statement. 

 The news sent shares of Tommy Hilfiger down to a fresh one-year low of 15 during the trading session, past its prior low of 19-1/8. The stock closed down 3-7/16 at 15-3/4 in heavy trading. The stock ranked as the leading percentage loser on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 Analysts listening in on a morning conference call said Tommy Hilfiger shipped too many clothes to merchants, forcing the stores to mark down items to unload excess inventory. Analysts rushed to trim investment ratings on the company, seeing its challenges continuing beyond the fourth quarter. 

 "Given the neutral palate of the spring men's line, which in our view lacks Tommy Hilfiger's traditional colour, we expect markdowns to remain a problem at least until into early next fiscal year," said Merrill Lynch analyst Brenda Gall in a research report. 

 Analyst Dave Turner at Ferris Baker Watts said Tommy Hilfiger and other high-profile apparel companies Nautica Enterprises Inc.  and Polo Ralph Lauren Corp.  are facing heavily promotional environments as customers turn to upstart apparel brands. 

 "The Tommy Hilfiger brand has lost some of its appeal," Turner said. "The brand peaked very quickly, now it's everywhere. And now that it's everywhere - it's on sale. You have to keep prices down in order to compete, but that hurts the bottomline." 

 Merrill Lynch cut its intermediate-term rating on Tommy Hilfiger to neutral from buy, while Morgan Stanley Dean Witter downgraded the company to outperform from strong buy. Ferris baker Watts trimmed its rating to market perform from outperform. 

 Tommy Hilfiger said it expects earnings for its fiscal third quarter, ended Dec. 31, to range between 58 and 64 cents per diluted share, on revenues of $515 million to $525 million. 

 Wall Street had pegged its earnings at 73 cents a share, according to research firm First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 The company's forecast compared with earnings per share of 61 cents and revenues of $463.2 million in the year-earlier third quarter. 

 It forecast per-share profits for the fourth quarter, ending March 31, of 35 to 45 cents, compared with 48 cents a year earlier. First Call/Thomson Financial said its consensus estimate was 58 cents. 

 The company expects to report final results for the third quarter on Feb. 2. 

 ((New York Newsdesk (212) 859-1700)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw1d02cbw




 U.S. stocks end higher as bond yields  decline . 

490 words
13 January 2000
21:23
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 13 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks ended higher on Thursday, taking the Dow Jones industrial average to a record closing high, as banks and other financial issues gained following a decline in bond yields. 

 "The market had been overreacting to interest rates concerns," said Arthur Hogan, chief market analyst at Jefferies & Co. "It is really not a big surprise that it has rallied back." 

 Based on early and unofficial data, the Dow Jones industrial average .DJI) closed up 31.33 points, or 0.27 percent, at a record closing high of 11,582.43. It was led by gains in financial services firms such as J.P. Morgan & Co. Inc., up 3-3/16 at 122-13/16, and American Express Co., which gained 13/16 to 156.. 

 Software maker Microsoft Corp., which called a news conference for 4.30 pm U.S. Eastern Standard Time but declined to disclose the subject, climbed 2 to $107-13/16. 

 The technology-laced Nasdaq Composite index .IXIC) ended with a gain of 106.91 points, or 2.78 percent, to 3,956.93. 

 Oil and pharmaceutical stocks were also strong while airlines, computer software companies and semiconductor equipment makers slid. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 index .SPX) ended up 17.43 points, or 1.22 percent, at 1,449.68. 

 Stoking the gains was the improving bond market. 

 The U.S. Treasury 30-year bond rose 24/32, pushing the yield down to 6.65 percent. The yield had closed at 6.72 percent on Wednesday, its highest level since July 1997, on fears the U.S. Federal Reserve will enact a series of interest rate hikes to keep inflation at bay in 2000. 

 Helping the bond market was news the U.S. Treasury plans to buy back $30 billion in debt, which would pull some supply out of the fixed income market. 

 News on the inflation front was mixed on Thursday with prices at the wholesale level for December matching expectations but retail prices for the same month showing Americans spent more than was anticipated. 

 "These numbers fit into the scenario that keeps the Fed at 25 basis points at its next meeting. Inflation at the wholesale level is in line," said Alan Ackerman, the senior vice president and market strategist for Fahnestock & Co. 

 In corporate news, Warner-Lambert Co. said its board authorised talks with Pfizer Inc.. In doing so, it jeopardises its $53.8 billion merger plans with American Home Products Corp. 

 Pfizer was up 1-13/16 at 36-7/8 while Warner-Lambert gained 5-3/16 to 92 and AHP was up 7/16 at 42-5/8. 

 UAL Corp., the parent of United Airlines, issued a profit warning and saw its stock drop 9-3/4 to 65. 

 ((Wall Street Desk, + 212.859.1730)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw1d02c9g




 U.S. stocks up in late morning, inflation data benign. 

 By Amy Collins 
791 words
13 January 2000
16:26
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 13 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks were up in late morning trading on Thursday after new inflation data calmed fears that the Federal Reserve might aggressively hike interest rates at the beginning of February. 

 Internet, banking, telecommunications and oil driller stocks led the market up while transportation and semiconductor equipment makers were sliding. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average was up 32 points, or 0.28 percent, at 11,583. Among Dow components Microsoft Corp. was down 3-1/8 at 102-11/16 but JP Morgan & Co. Inc. was up 3-3/8 at 123. 

 The technology-rich Nasdaq Composite index was up 35 points, or 0.93 percent, at 3,885, after rising more than 2 percent within minutes of the opening bell. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 index was up 5 points, or 0.38 percent, at 1,437. 

 "It looks like we have a good tone in the market," said James Volk, the co-director of institutional trading at D.A. Davidson and Co. in Portland, Ore. 

 The U.S. Treasury 30-year bond, which has pressured stocks amid investor fears of an aggressive Federal Reserve interest rate hike next month, was up 13/32 with its yield declining to 6.68 percent. The yield closed at 6.72 percent on Wednesday, its highest level since July 1997. 

 "Higher interest rates are just going to make the market very heavy and sluggish," said Richard Cripps, the chief market strategist at Legg Mason Wood Walker in Baltimore. "The momentum we had is sort of topping out because of interest rates." 

 In morning economic news, the December producer price index, an indicator of inflation at the wholesale level, increased 0.3 percent, matching expectations. The core rate, which excludes volatile food and energy components, grew 0.1 percent, also in line with the average forecast. 

 "These numbers fit into the scenario that keeps the Fed at 25 basis points at its next meeting. Inflation at the wholesale level is in line," said Alan Ackerman, the senior vice president and market strategist for Fahnestock & Co. 

 He was referring to an expect quarter of a percentage point rate increase by the Fed. 

 Retail sales were slightly stronger than expected for December, rising 1.2 percent compared with the 1 percent expected by economists polled by Reuters. Excluding autos, retail sales rose by 1.4 percent, the biggest rise since April 1996. 

 Analysts said trading volume may slow in the afternoon, in anticipation of evening remarks from Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan. He was scheduled to deliver a speech on technology and the economy on Thursday evening at the Economic Club of New York. 

 "Traders are going to be hesitant ahead of Mr. Greenspan," said Bill Meehan, the chief market analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald in Darien, Conn. 

 Advancing stocks outpaced declines by 15 to 11 with more than 346 million shares traded on the New York Stock Exchange. There were 60 stocks at new highs and 35 at new lows. 

 Also on Thursday, Federal Reserve Board Governor Edward Gramlich was to speak on inflation at a lunch meeting the Charlotte Economics Club in Charlotte, N.C. Gramlich is not a voting member of the Fed's rate-setting Federal Open Markets Committee. The FOMC will meet Feb. 1-2, with an interest rate decision expected on the second day. 

 In corporate news, Applied Materials Inc., the world's largest maker of semiconductor manufacturing equipment, said it would buy Etec Systems Inc. in a stock deal valued at about $1.8 billion. Applied Materials was down 6-11/16 at 120-3/8 and Etec was up 23 at 72-7/8. 

 U.S. Trust was up 36-1/8 at 115 after the world's largest discount broker, Charles Schwab Corp., said it would buy the 147-year-old investment management firm to form a full-service brokerage. Schwab was down 2-1/2 at 35-1/8. 

 Clothing retailer Tommy Hilfiger was down 3-1/2 at 15-11/16 after it issued a third-quarter profit warning, citing pricing pressure for a disappointing season. Both Morgan Stanley Dean Witter and Merrill Lynch cut their investment rating on the stock. 

 Apple Computer was up 6-3/4 at 93-15/16 after Morgan Stanley Dean Witter raised its rating on the computer maker to outperform from neutral. 

 Internet audio company RealNetworks was up 15-3/4 at 142 after Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown started coverage of the stock with a strong buy rating and set an 18-month price target of $250. 

 ((Wall Street Newsdesk +212 859 1730)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw1d02bym




 Eicon Tech Says Overhaul Of Operations Not Necessary 

827 words
13 January 2000
18:01
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 TORONTO -(Dow Jones)- Eicon Technology Corp.'s (T.EIC) fundamentals remain strong and Thursday's second-quarter earnings warning won't lead to a complete re-evaluation of the company's business operations, company officials said on a conference call. 

 A drop-off in the company's WAN (Wide Access Network) product sales due to Y2K concerns is the main reason for the shortfall, said Eicon chief financial officer Francois Campeau. WAN product sales usually account for 27% of company revenues, he said, but that fell to 20% in the second quarter. 

 Net income, expected to be 2 Canadian cents a share in the second quarter ended Dec. 31, is likely to remain flat in the third quarter, Campeau said.  Asked why, he said that Eicon customers, such as IBM Corp. (IBM) and Lucent Technologies Inc. (LU), weren't likely to start spending money budgeted for Y2K until the calendar third quarter, which is after the end of the company's fiscal year. 

 Campeau said the company expects full-year net of 15-20 Canadian cents a share, which indicates that fourth-quarter net will be about 10-15 Canadian cents.  The First Call mean for Eicon's second quarter was 8 Canadian cents before Thursday's profit warning. 

 Eicon chairman and chief executive Peter Brojde said the C$55 million in sales generated in the second quarter were a record. But analysts were quick to note that most of the sales were in the company's lower-margin ISDN side of the business. 

 Ken Gingrich, senior vice-president of worldwide sales and marketing, acknowledged that the client side of Eicon's ISDN business generated smaller margins, roughly 45%, than the WAN products, roughly 75%, but he said the company expects the server side of its ISDN business, whcih generates higher margins, to expand. 

 (Corrected 2:11 PM) 

 Eicon Technology Corp. (T.EIC) expects net income in its third quarter to be about even with an expected 2 Canadian cents a share in the second quarter. The company sees full-year net of 15-20 Canadian cents a share, which indicates that fourth-quarter net will be about 10-15 Canadian cents. 

 (In a story published at 1:01 p.m. EST (1801 GMT), it was incorrectly reported that the company expected net income to be flat with the second-quarter level for the rest of the fiscal year.) 

 Eicon Technology Corp. (T.EIC) is forecasting a 20-30% rise in sales in fiscal 2001, fueled in part by the development of new products using DSL (Digital Subscriber Line) technology, company officials said on a conference call. 

 One analyst asked if the company was making a late entry into the DSL market, and whether that would reduce potential revenues. 

 Ken Gingrich, senior vice-president of worldwide sales and marketing, said the company's failure to enter the North American DSL market may hurt revenue, but he added that the DSL business has yet to generate high gross margins, with margins at about 12%. He also said vender loyalty isn't high in the nascent DSL market, and that the company has been in touch with potential clients who have expressed interest in Eicon's products. 

 One analyst said he was puzzled by what appeared to be a trouble-free scenario being painted by the company given that it was forced to issue an earnings warning, and that its high margin WAN business may be on the decline. 

 "I don't want to give the impression that everything's rosy," Gingrich said. "But I do want it known that our WAN access market isn't going away, and we expect it to grow." 

 Sales of WAN (Wide Access Network) products are expected to increase in fiscal 2001, but not by more than 10%, said Francois Campeau, chief financial officer. 

 Pierre Yves-Terrisse, analyst at Yorkton Securities, asked how the company planned to address its sagging share price. Eicon chairman and chief executive Peter Brojde said the company intended to focus on increasing revenues and gross margins. The company isn't planning a share buyback, despite having a net cash position of C$10 million, he said. 

 After the conference call, Terrisse questioned the company's decision not to initiate a buyback. "If the company is so confident in its business plan, then why not buy back its own shares, which would increase the company's eanings per share and bring its share price back up?" he asked. 


Campeau said after the call that Eicon preferred to use its funds to
either acquire technology or buy companies that could help increase its
market share. "I think when shareholders look at the fundamentals of the
company they see we are well-positioned in the right part of our
industry - remote access," he said. "Our sales have been growing at a
tremendous rate quarter to quarter."
   -Stuart Weinberg, Dow Jones; 416-306-2032


Document dj00000020010805dw1d0077i




 C-C Amatil shares bounce off six year low. 

546 words
12 January 2000
03:40
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 SYDNEY, Jan 12 (Reuters) - Shares in soft-drink manufacturer Coca-Cola Amatil Ltd recouped some losses on Wednesday, but analysts warned the stock could face further short-term weakness on earnings uncertainty. 

 C-C Amatil shares were four cents stronger at A$3.88 in early afternoon trade after falling to a six-year closing low on Tuesday of A$3.84, continuing their decline from levels above A$7.50 in May last year. 

 However the bottler, which issued a profit warning in December, was unlikely to post any real improvement until its Philippines operation picked up, expected towards the end of the year, analysts said. 

 A statement issued on Tuesday clarifying its use of market incentive payments in Korea had no impact on the current outlook for the stock. 

 "(Yesterday's announcement) is not too different to what we had originally. I have a hold on the stock but I expect weakness, potentially down to A$3.50," said ABN Amro analyst David Cooke. 

 The balance of risks was currently on the downside, although he anticipated an improvement from the Philippines in the second half of 2000. 

 C-C Amatil Ltd said on Tuesday it had used all of the A$91 million available in Korean market development incentive payments from The Coca-Cola Co  in the 1998 and 1999 years. The payments could have been extended into the current year. 

 The lack of such payments was part of the reason for the company's warning in December that it faced a lower profit in calendar 2000, along with poor performance in the Philippines. 

 "We maintain it as a hold, but expect it to underperform for a while," added a dealer at a European-owned investment bank. "The real story is in the Philippines. We expect that will get better down the track." 

 The Philippines was C-C Amatil's biggest market in 1998, contributing A$169.6 million at the pre-tax operating level, but this fell to A$57.9 million in the first half of 1999. 

 The company also set a A$70 million restructure of its Philippine operations in December which would also help offset problems flowing from the country's subdued economy. 

 C-C Amatil said on December 9 its calendar 1999 net profit before abnormals would be above 1998's A$179.3 million, but said its 2000 profit would be lower than in 1999, citing the completion of market development incentive payments in South Korea and lower than expected performance in the Philippines. 

 According to Barra Global Estimates, analysts are forecasting a calendar 1999 pre-abnormal net profit of A$186.8 million with a range of A$179.3 million to A$200.3 million. Profit for 2000 is forecast at between A$158.7 million and A$237.4 million. 

 C-C Amatil is about 37 percent owned by The Coca-Cola Co . Manila conglomerate San Miguel Corp  is the second largest shareholder with 21.5 percent, retaining its sake in September last year when it rejected bids of only A$5 per share for C-C Amatil shareholders. 

 ((Walter Watson, Sydney Newsroom, 61-2 9373 1800, sydney.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw1c02bc4




 ADR Report-Tech, telcom ADRs sway amid volatility. 

617 words
12 January 2000
17:28
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 12 (Reuters) - American Depositary Receipts, or ADRs, were modestly higher Wednesday as technology and telecommunication issues were swung around in a volatile market amid concerns of higher interest rates and the Nasdaq Composite Index's recent slippage. 


The Bank of New York index of leading ADRs	    rose 0.44 percent to 158.97, with the index of leading European ADRs	    up 0.94 percent and the index of leading Asian ADRs	     off 0.59 percent at 162.45.


 "The bottom line is that (trading in telecommunications issues) has been quite volatile. One day you want to buy them like mad and the next day you want to sell them," said one European telecoms trader in New York. 


Nokia Corp.		 ADRs gained 5-5/16 to 173-15/16 and Ericsson ADRs climbed 1-11/16 to 62. The trader noted Vodafone AirTouch Plc's link-up with top technology, including Nokia and Ericsson, and online firms for an Intenret portal. However, he said the announcement was widely-expected.



Vodafone ADRs rose 3/4 to 49-5/8. Traders said investors were more focused on developments in the company's bid for Mannesmann AG .



Meanwhile, British Telecommunications Plc   ADRs climbed 5-5/16 to 197-13/16. It was one of the 13 firms that submitted bids to the British govement for five high-tech, new generation licneses for mobile phones.



Non-technology issues also slipped, with mining firm Rio Tinto Plc ADRs down 4-5/8 at 88-5/8. Dresdner Kleinwort Benson cut its rating on teh firm to hold from add.



Norway's Petroleum Geo-Services  fell 2-3/16 to 14-1/8 on the New York Stock Exchange after a profit warning, largely due to production problems at its Reform Banff oilfield. Merrill Lynch cut its near-term rating on the company to neutral from buy due to execution problems at the firm.



Media firm British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc   ADRs built on recent gains following the megamerger between Time Warner Inc. and America Online Inc., rising 6-3/4 to 107-1/4.



The most recent gains were helped by talk of subscriber growth from Rupert Murcodch, chairman of News Corp., which owns 40 percent of the pay-TV group.



France's LVMH   gained 3-1/2 to 88 amid talk that free Internet service provider Libertysurf, which LVMH Chairman Bernard Arnault owns 40 percent of, will soon announce plans to float its stock.



Sony Corp.   ADRs slipped 5-13/16 to 229-1/4 and Kyocera Corp   ADRs fell 13-1/16 at 174, extending its recent retracement from its December highs.



"It's the same thing we've seen. People are cutting back (on growth stocks)," said Leslie Richardson, managing director of Asian Sales at SG Cowen. "They are trimming positions and there is anticipation that liquidity is going to be reduced further by the Fed into the quarter."



Cable & Wireless HKT   ADRs rose 3-7/16 at 27-3/8.



"There are rumours going around about various deals," Richardson said, referring to Cable & Wireless. "But the main thing to focus on with that company is that the (market) is looking at them as a pure long-distance play but 20 percent of their pre-tax profit is coming from the Internet and multimedia. (The market) is overlooking that. It has corrected again and I think it's a buy."



India's ICICI Ltd.   ADRs eased 2-1/4 at 20-3/8 after sharp gains Tuesday following its launch of an Internet-based stock trading facility.



((-Wall Street Desk (212) 859-1730)).



(C) Reuters Limited 2000.


Document lba0000020010821dw1c029an




 Business/Financial Desk; Section C 
 In Yet Another Profit Alert, Bank One Sees 19% Decrease 

 By DAVID BARBOZA 
753 words
12 January 2000
The New York Times
NYTF
Page 1, Column 5
English
 c. 2000 New York Times Company 

 CHICAGO, Jan. 11 -- The Bank One Corporation issued a profit warning today, its third in five months, saying that earnings could decline about 19 percent this year, largely because of continuing troubles in its credit card division. 

 Bank One, which is the nation's fourth-largest bank holding company and is one of the world's largest issuers of Visa credit cards, also said it would take a charge of $725 million in the fourth quarter of 1999, in part to cover one-time losses at its First USA credit card and consumer lending division, which accounts for about a third of the company's earnings. The company is also taking charges related to reorganization, the closings of various bank branches and severance packages, among other factors. 

 The announcement was the latest troublesome development at Bank One, which said just a few weeks ago that its longtime chief executive, John B. McCoy, was stepping down in the wake of continuing troubles at First USA and a huge selloff of the company's stock. 

 Shares of Bank One dropped 56.25 cents today, to $29.5625, on the New York Stock Exchange. Less than a year ago, the shares were trading as high as $63. 

 Bank One expects to earn about 79 cents a share when it announces fourth-quarter earnings next Tuesday. For 1999, earnings are expected to be $3.45 a share. A few months ago, analysts had been estimating profits of $3.92 a share. 

 This year, Bank One said earnings were projected to be about $2.80 a share, down from recent Wall Street estimates of $3.42, according to First Call/Thomson Financial, which tracks company earnings. After Bank One and the First Chicago NDB Corporation agreed to merge in 1998, earnings for 2000 were projected at nearly $5 a share. 

 Today, at a meeting in New York with investors and Wall Street analysts, the company's top executives said they were moving aggressively to rejuvenate the credit card division, whose market share has shrunk because of poor customer service, increased competition and high penalty fees. 

 But Verne G. Istock, the interim chief executive at Bank One, which is based in Chicago, said the company did not expect the credit card division to return to profitability until late this year or early in 2001. 

 Wall Street analysts greeted the announcement today with skepticism, saying their confidence had been largely blunted by repeated warnings and earnings revisions that suggest that Bank One may have deep-seated problems in an increasingly difficult competitive environment. 

 ''I think there's a lot of convincing yet to be done,'' said Nancy Bush, a banking analyst at Ryan, Beck & Company. ''I don't think anyone heard anything today that will send them out to buy up the stock.'' 

 Analysts also say that the company will have difficulty turning its credit card division around at a time when competition is stiff and the economy could be facing a slowdown. 

 Though the company's problems are primarily in the credit card division, analysts said, there could be weakness and management problems in other areas, like retail banking. 

 But company executives insist that other divisions are performing as expected. 

 ''All our businesses, except credit card, continue to be solidly in line with our stated growth and return goals,'' Mr. Istock said in a statement. 

 The company said it expected earnings growth of about 10 percent to 12 percent outside its credit card division on revenue growth of about 5 percent to 8 percent this year. 

 To improve Bank One's prospects and restore confidence, executives said the company would strengthen customer service in its credit card division and devote more resources to marketing, retaining customers and increasing discipline in its financial operations. 

 The company said it had also reorganized some operations, reshuffled management in recent months and repriced some of its credit card offerings. 

 ''They know where some of the problems are in the credit card division, and they're addressing them,'' said Henry Dickson, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney. ''But there is a healthy degree of skepticism about whether they can do it.'' 

 The company also said today that it had retained Russell Reynolds Associates to conduct a search for a chief executive to replace Mr. McCoy. 

 Mr. Istock, a former chief executive at First Chicago NDB, is also a contender for that post, the company says. 

Document nytf000020010809dw1c002ae




 Financial Post 
 Toys 'R' Us takes CEO from FAO Schwarz: Removes uncertainty:  Profit warning  in face of increased competition 

 William Borden 
Reuters, with files from Bloomberg News
627 words
12 January 2000
National Post
FINP
National !@SERIES=
C12
English
 (c) Copyright 2000 Financial Post from National Post (formerly The Financial Post Company). All rights reserved. 

 NEW YORK - Toys "R" Us Inc. has named FAO Schwarz's top executive as its president and chief executive, but analysts said the appointment may not solve the main problem facing the toy retailer -- discounters grabbing market share. 

 John Eyler replaces interim CEO Michael Goldstein, who remains chairman of the retailer that endured a disappointing holiday season with a decline in sales at U.S. stores open more than a year. 

 Mr. Eyler has been chairman and CEO of FAO Schwarz, an upscale toy retailer that is a unit of Vendex International NV, since 1992. His appointment to Toys "R" Us, where he will also serve as director, is effective on Jan. 17. 

 Toys "R" Us, overtaken by Wal-Mart Stores Inc. two years ago as the biggest U.S. toy seller, last week warned 1999 profit will miss forecasts because of product shortages and heightened competition -- even as the retail industry enjoyed the biggest holiday season in seven years. Toys "R" Us shares have lost more than a third of their value in the past six months. Yesterday, shares of the Paramus, N.J.-based firm fell 15/16 to close at $11 9/16 (US). 

 Brown Brothers Harriman analyst Donald Trott said Toys "R" Us was able to remove some uncertainty with Mr. Eyler's appointment. However, the appointment does not alleviate the firm's largest problem, he said. 

 "They lost their reason for being," he said. "The consumer patterns have changed. They approach shopping as a more utilitarian exercise than in the '80s." 

 Mr. Trott said this trend in consumer behaviour has benefited discounters as customers with diverse shopping lists could meet their needs with one trip. 

 Mr. Goldstein assumed the CEO position on an interim basis after Robert Nakasone resigned in August, 1999. Bruce Krysiak was president and chief operating officer for less than a year before leaving the company in March, 1999. 

 Mr. Eyler's experience as a CEO, a title he held at divisions of Hartmarx Corp., Federated Department Stores Inc. and May Department Stores Co. before joining FAO Schwarz, may have made him an attractive candidate, said Sean McGowan, an analyst with Gerard Klauer Mattison. 

 Still, the merchandising skills Mr. Eyler developed at FAO Schwarz, where shoppers can splurge on a pint-size Range Rover replica for $18,750 or $325 Curious George stuffed dolls, may not be a perfect fit for Toys "R" Us, which attracts cost-conscious shoppers looking for basic toys like Barbie dolls and board games. 

 "[Mr.] Eyler's been in retail a long time and knows the toy industry, but he's never competed directly with Wal-Mart," said Mr. McGowan. 

 Besides Wal-Mart, Kmart Corp. and other discount chains, Toys "R" Us also faces increased competition from online retailers such as eToys Inc. and Amazon.com Inc. 

 Toys "R" Us was stung by problems with its www.toysrus.com Web site this holiday. It had to turn away customers when the site couldn't handle traffic in November and had problems shipping all orders in time for Christmas. 

 The company has been trying to revamp its 1,544 stores worldwide with its "C3" format, which makes the stores easier to navigate and improves inventory management. The process started during Mr. Nakasone's tenure. 

 "Now with C-3 store, they are going in the right direction," Mr. Trott said. "The question is whether it is too little, too late." 

 Black & White Photo: Nina Barnett, The New York Times / Toys "R" Us has hired John Eyler, FAO Schwarz's top executive, in a bid to reverse slumping sales. 

Document finp000020010805dw1c000l6




 U.S. stocks mixed at midday, pressured by bond. 

 By Amy Collins 
807 words
11 January 2000
17:30
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 11 (Reuters) - U.S. stocks were mixed at midday on Tuesday as the market came under pressure from a rising bond yield, a day after powering higher on the America Online Inc. and Time Warner Inc. merger euphoria. 

 Airlines, speciality healthcare, and gold stocks were up while Internet, banking, biotechnology and homebuilder stocks were down. 

 "There's a bit of a sobering observation today," said Alan Ackerman, the senior vice president and market strategist at Fahnestock & Co. "Some people don't thing the Internets and old media should have run up as much as they did yesterday." 

 Time Warner was down 4-15/16 at 85-1/8 while AOL fell 5-13/16 to 65-3/16. 

 A number of analysts weighed in on the deal, with Time Warner's stock rating cut by Credit Suisse First Boston. However, PaineWebber Inc. boosted Time Warner's price target to $170 from $90. 

 AOL was cut to outperform from outperform significantly at Schroeders, while Merrill Lynch said the deal will cause slower growth in the combined company's and could cut AOL's share price by nearly a quarter. 

 Rising interest rates, Ackerman said, will continue to shape the market as the Federal Reserve's Feb. 1 and 2 policy setting meeting nears. "A return to reality is inevitable," he said. 

 The benchmark 30-year U.S. Treasury bond was down 1-1/32 with the yield at 6.66 percent as bond traders factored in a series of interest rate hikes expected from the Fed this year. The yield was at 6.58 percent at Monday's close. 

 Bonds were pressured by remarks about rising inflationary risks made on late Monday by Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond President Alfred Broaddus, a voting member of the Fed's interest-rate setting group. 

 Broaddus said the Fed should not wait until inflation accelerates before raising interest rates. 

 "The bonds certainly bring to mind that the rates are certainly going up," said Dick Stein, the vice president and chief technical analyst at the Boca Raton-based Noble International Investments. 

 The Dow Jones industrial average .DJI) was up 31 points, or 0.27 percent, at 11,603 following two consecutive sessions of record closes. 

 The strong spot in the Dow component was Intel Corp., which was up 5-3/4 at 91-1/2. Intel was boosted by bullish remarks from a Credit Suisse First Boston analyst, who raised the rating on the stock and lifted the target price to $150. 

 The Nasdaq Composite index .IXIC) drifted in and out of positive territory, but was down 17 points, or 0.42 percent, at 4,032 near midday. On Monday, the technology-rich index ended up 4.30 percent, or 167 points higher, its ninth-biggest rise ever in percentage terms. 

 Internet stocks were down, although Internet service providers remained strong on the heels of the AOL-Time Warner deal. TheStreet.com's Internet index .DOT) was down 17 points, or 1.5 percent at 1,142. 

 Internet portal Yahoo Inc., which is expected to report earnings after the market closes, was down 19-7/8 at 417-3/13. Internet venture capital firm CMGI Inc. was down 15 at 291-1/2. 

 The broader Standard & Poor's 500 index .SPX) was down 6 points, or 0.44 percent, at 1,451. 

 Another Dow component, American Express Corp., was up 3-3/8 at 157-15/16 despite general weakness in the banking sector. JP Morgan raised its target price on the stock to $175 from $150. 

 Declining stocks outpaced advances 1,782 to 1,085 with more than 483 million shares traded on the New York Stock Exchange. There were 47 stocks at new highs and 39 at new lows. 

 On the Nasdaq, declining stocks outpaced advances 2,088 to 1,716 with more than 785 million shares traded. There were 181 stocks at new highs and 55 at new lows. 

 Other companies expected to report earnings during the day included Seagate Technology Inc., which was up 15/16 at 43-3/8 and SunTrust Banks Inc., down 5/16 at 59-5/16. 

 Bank One Corp. was down 1/2 at 29-9/16 after it issued a profit warning. 

 Caller ID maker Innotrac Corp. broke its 52-week low after saying it expects fourth-quarter earnings of 8 cents to 10 cents per share, compared with 22 cents a year ago. Innotrac was down 5-21/32 at 7-7/32. 

 But in the positive direction, computer software company Compuware Corp. said it expects to match or beat third-quarter expectations. Compuware was up 3-1/8 at 26-7/16. ((Wall Street Newsdesk +212 859 1730)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw1b03ong




 BUSINESS 
 BUSINESS TODAY Series: BUSINESS TODAY; Correction 

624 words
11 January 2000
St. Petersburg Times
STPT
SOUTH PINELLAS
1E
English
 (Copyright 2000) 

 VISION TWENTY-ONE RESTRUCTURES: Largo-based Vision Twenty-One Inc., an eye care company, plans to eliminate more than 70 jobs by closing most of its Largo service center and consolidating its managed care operations to regional offices in Boca Raton, Baltimore and Phoenix. The company said it will consolidate its refractive and ambulatory surgery center operations in a yet-to-be-chosen location. The company also said it is continuing efforts to find a buyer. Vision Twenty-One shares, which traded above $10 last summer, closed at $1.78 1/8, down 9 3/8 cents. IBM EMBRACES LINUX: IBM said that all of its powerful network computers will be able to run on Linux, embracing the fast-growing operating system as the best platform for Internet commerce. 

  IBM's move essentially lifts the Unix-based system from the ranks of grass-root upstart to the same playing field as the Solaris system that Sun Microsystems sells with its Unix servers, Microsoft's Windows NT system, and AIX, which is IBM's version of the Unix platform.AUTOMAKERS TEAM WITH ONLINE PORTALS: General Motors Corp. and Ford Motor Co. each reached partnerships Sunday with two of the biggest Internet portal companies: GM with America Online, Ford with Yahoo. GM or Ford buyers who register through special pages on America Online or Yahoo, respectively, will receive periodic messages from the carmakers or their dealers - everything from notices about changing the oil to recall information to advertisements about rebates. Consumers also can go to the Web pages to look up information about cars sold at dealerships. The partnerships do not preclude the Internet portal providers from doing business with other automakers. RAYTHEON TO SELL DIVISION: Raytheon Co. said it will sell its flight simulation and training division to L-3 Communications Holdings Inc. for $160-million. Raytheon, which employs about 2,000 people in the Tampa Bay area, is concentrating on its main businesses after warning in October that sales and profit last year and this year will be less than forecast, triggering its biggest stock drop in at least two decades. The flight simulation and training operations include a plant in Orlando. L-3 last month agreed to buy Honeywell International's weapons and satellite navigation-systems business for $55-million. PRIMEX TO TAKE CHARGE: Primex Technologies Inc. of St. Petersburg said it will take a $4-million pretax charge to first- quarter earnings as it reduces the size of its aerospace and electronics division in Redmond, Wash. The company plans to cut a little less than 10 percent of the 770 positions it now has in Redmond. Primex said it expects to receive benefits over the course of the year that exceed the amount of the charge. AMD, GATEWAY REACH DEAL: Advanced Micro Devices Inc. said that computermaker Gateway Inc. will use AMD's Athlon microprocessors in its personal computers. The deal marks a recovery for AMD, which lost Gateway as a top customer last year to rival chip maker Intel Corp. The deal gives AMD nine of the top 10 computermakers as customers; Dell Computer Corp. is the sole holdout.SBC SEEKS ENTRY INTO LONG-DISTANCE: SBC Communications Corp. has filed for permission to enter the $6.2- billion long-distance market in Texas. The application, filed at the Federal Communications Commission, comes less than a month after the agency granted Bell Atlantic permission to sell long-distance service in New York - the first regional phone company allowed to offer such service. Shares of SBC rose 62 1/2 cents to $44.62 1/2. CorrectionTom Smith is the general manager of the Hyatt Regency Tampa. A report in Business Monday used an incorrect name. 

Document stpt000020010813dw1b004d5




 Point Of View: Kingfisher's CEO Making The Right Moves 

 By Paul Jarvis 
576 words
11 January 2000
16:16
Dow Jones International News
DJI
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 LONDON -(Dow Jones)- Poor Geoffrey Mulcahy! Here is a chief executive spearheading a commendable strategy at a time when no one wants to buy into it. 

 Mulcahy heads U.K. retail combine Kingfisher PLC (U.KGF), which stunned investors Tuesday by warning of margin pressures in all its businesses, causing analysts to slash profit forecasts and the share price to slump 12%. 

 There is little wrong with the group's direction. Acquisitions over the last decade of businesses such as Darty and Castorama have established it as the dominant player in Europe's home improvement and electrical retail markets. 

 Mulcahy suffered a big setback when Wal-Mart Stores Inc. scuppered Kingfisher's GBP5.7 billion bid for Asda, one of the U.K.'s top four supermarket chains, but, typically, he responded by stepping up the rollout of new concepts such as Big W, the out-of-town version of its high street chain Woolworths. 

 In part because of Mulcahy's popular strategy, Kingfisher's margin concerns rocked the retail sector Tuesday. It stalled hopes of a revival and signalled a tough future in a climate of price deflation and mounting competition. 

 The FTSE general retail index, one of the worst-performing sectors in the market, dropped 3.1%. 

 U.K. Retailing Changing Fast 

 U.K. retailing is changing fast. The arrival of Wal-Mart via its takeover of Asda and discount chains such as Matalan PLC (U.MAN) have increased price consciousness among customers, while the advent of online shopping has created the potential for a big change in the nation's shopping habits. 

 Sales at traditional high street store operators such as Marks & Spencer PLC (U.MAR) and Storehouse PLC (U.SHS) are already showing alarming rates of decline. 

 In this new era, only the fittest - those with the most efficient systems and strongest supply chains - will survive. The weak are likely to be swallowed up in a wave of consolidation. 

 Kingfisher, which said Tuesday that sales from existing store space rose 6% for the five-week Christmas period, is likely to be among the survivors, but at a price. 

 Start-up costs are increasing. Spending on e-commerce this year is set to be GBP21 million, more than double original expectations of GBP10 million and is likely to rise sharply the year after. 

 This may be to the detriment of short-term profit - broker Warburg Dillon Read cut its forecast of pretax profit for the year ended Jan. 31 to GBP725 million from GBP760 million - but will leave the group in a stronger position in the longer term. 

 The group has to invest now in concepts such as Big W and take an aggressive line on pricing if it is to compete effectively with a Wal-Mart-backed Asda and the growing band of discounters, while strong e-commerce channels will also be vital in what is an increasingly online world. 

 More acquisitions will also be a crucial cog in Kingfisher's future strategy as the group aims to build on its strong position in European markets and possibly expand activities into the Far East. 


Mulcahy takes much of the credit for Kingfisher's direction. The group
is doing all the right things. But it is likely to be some time before
it sees the full rewards.
   -By Paul Jarvis 44-171-842-9281; paul.jarvis@dowjones.com


Document dji0000020010805dw1b005or




Breakfast Briefing // Chicago
FINANCIAL
Breakfast Briefing // Chicago 

631 words
11 January 2000
Chicago Sun-Times
CHI
English
© 2000 Chicago Sun Times.  Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning.  All rights reserved.  

Fruit taps turnaround expert Fruit of the Loom Ltd., the largest U.S. maker of underwear and T-shirts, named turnaround specialist Brian Wolfson as chairman to lead the company from Chapter 11 bankruptcy. Wolfson, a former chairman of the board's executive committee, replaces William Farley as chairman. The company didn't release any other details and couldn't immediately be reached for comment. Fruit of the Loom, saddled with $1.3 billion in debt, filed for protection from creditors Dec. 29 after failing to cut costs in time to recover from several quarters of losses. Aon shares fall on profit warning Chicago-based Aon Corp., the world's No. 2 insurance broker, said fourth-quarter profit will fall as much as 91 percent short of estimates because of a settlement of disputed workers compensation claims, higher costs and slower sales. Earnings will fall to 5 or 10 cents a share from 53 cents a year earlier. 

Analysts had expected the Chicago-based company to report net income of 58 cents in the three months ended Dec. 31. Shares of Aon fell $12.62 1/ 2, its biggest one-day drop ever, to $30.12 1/2 on the New York Stock Exchange. The workers compensation settlement failed to douse concern over the company's other businesses. Midas to boost stock buyback Midas Inc. of Itasca said it will increase its stock buyback to 5 million shares, from the 3 million it announced in February. Midas has repurchased 2.3 million shares, with 15.7 million still outstanding. Midas makes mufflers and other automotive parts. Starwood sites in wiring deal OnSite Access Inc. of New York said it has won a contract to install high-bandwidth infrastructure for Internet, voice, data and video telecommunications in the Triangle Plaza office development near O'Hare Airport and at the Leo Burnett Building in the Loop, both controlled by Starwood Capital Group, as well as 17 other Starwood buildings around the country. Terms of the deal were not announced. Playboy.com plans stock offering Playboy.com Inc., the online business of Chicago-based Playboy Enterprises Inc., plans to sell up to $50 million of common shares in an initial public offering of stock. Playboy Enterprises hopes to shake the notion that it's just a publishing firm. Although the brand-name magazine remains Playboy's U.S. flagship, most of the company's profit comes from such alternative-media divisions as cable TV, video and the Internet. Terms of the offering weren't disclosed in a registration filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Playboy Enterprises stock closed the day at $26.31 1/4, up $2.93 3/4, or nearly 13 percent, on the New York Stock Exchange. Leo Group unit in U.K. merger Chicago- based Leo Group Inc., the parent of the Leo Burnett ad agency, said it has merged the United Kingdom operations of its Starcom subsidiary with Bartle Bogle Hegarty. The combined firm will be called Starcom Motive Partnership and will be one of the top five ad agencies in the United Kingdom. A Bartle executive, Mark Cranmer, will become managing director of the operation. AOL deal news boosts Motorola Shares of Motorola Inc., the No. 1 maker of TV set-top boxes, rose 8.6 percent on speculation that America Online Inc.'s acquisition of Time Warner Inc. could boost its sales. Motorola rose $11.06 1/4 to $140 on the New York Stock Exchange. The increase was due in part to speculation that a combined AOL/Time Warner will expand high-speed Internet offerings through its cable television lines and may look to Schaumburg-based Motorola for equipment, said Ed Snyder, a Chase H&Q analyst.  

Document chi0000020010804dw1b001t0


 Chicago-Based Insurance Brokerage Sees Stock Slide after  Profit Warning 

 George Gunset 
215 words
11 January 2000
KRTBN Knight-Ridder Tribune Business News: Chicago Tribune - Illinois
KRTBN
English
 Copyright (C) 2000 KRTBN Knight Ridder Tribune Business News; Source: World Reporter (TM) 

 Some $3 billion was knocked off the market value of Aon Corp. on Monday after an earnings warning. 

 The stock of the Chicago-based insurance brokerage giant was hammered by Wall Street after Aon disclosed that fourth-quarter earnings will fall far short of expectations and that earnings for 2000 appear unlikely to reach analysts' projections because of operational problems and legal settlements. 

 Aon stock, which recovered slightly at the end of the session, fell $12.62, or 29.5 percent, to close at $30.12 a share. 

 "We talked with analysts this morning and most of them were supportive," said Joseph W. Shenton, senior vice president. Aon Chairman and CEO Pat Ryan said he was disappointed, but added Aon's businesses are well positioned and "we are confident in our ability to expand organic growth." 

 Special charges of $125 million to $150 million and other items will cut fourth-quarter profits to 5 to 10 cents a share, Aon said. That compares with 58 cents anticipated by analysts and 53 cents a year earlier. 

 Net income for 2000 "will be at least in the $2.10 to $2.20 per share range," Ryan said. Analysts had been projecting more than $2.50. 

Document krtbn00020010807dw1b006y2




 Lucent's woes may carry into second quarter. 

1,044 words
10 January 2000
The Times of India
TOI
English
 (c) 2000 The Times of India Group

 NEW YORK: Lucent Technologies Inc.'s bleak first-quarter profit warning rattled the confidence of even its most loyal Wall Street fans, who questioned whether the telecommunications equipment maker's more optimistic forecast for the second half of the year will ring true. 

 Lucent, known for its once-stellar track record of surpassing Wall Street's profit expectations every quarter since it was spun off from AT&T Corp. in 1996, said on Thursday it would report profits for the first quarter ended Dec. 31 fall below analysts' estimates on flat revenues. 

 Lucent now expects to report first-quarter earnings in the range of 36 cents to 39 cents a share, down from 48 cents a share a year ago and below Wall Street expectations of 54 cents a share. 

 Lucent said first-quarter revenues were $9.8 billion to $9.9 billion - flat compared with the year-ago quarter and about $1 billion below most analysts' expectations. 

 Lucent said it failed to properly gauge its customers' changing buying patterns and it lacked the manufacturing capacity to keep up with the red-hot demand for optical networking equipment. 

 Wall Street's reaction on Friday was swift and merciless. 

 Shares of Lucent, the most widely-held U.S. stock, fell nearly 23 percent or 15-7/8 to 53-3/16 on the New York Stock Exchange as several influential brokerage firms quickly downgraded the stock, including Merrill Lynch, Lehman Bros., Salomon Smith Barney, Warburg Dillon Read and SG Cowen. 

 Lucent's trading volume was over 136 million shares, a single-session NYSE record for any one stock. The previous record was 103.79 million shares of Occidental Petroleum Corp. in June, 1988. 

 A class action lawsuit was filed against Lucent on Friday, claiming the equipment maker previously made false statements about its financial condition. 

 Lehman analyst Steve Levy said in a research report he expects Lucent shares to trade at lower levels "until credibility and confidence are restored." Salomon Smith Barney set a 12-month price target of $50 a share on Lucent, and Warburg Dillon Read set a $57 a share price target. 

 Lucent has been "stretching" to achieve its aggressive revenue targets for the last five quarters, which has "left the company vulnerable to small pockets of turbulence that it would otherwise have been able to safely navigate," Levy said. 

 Lucent has been pitted against chief rivals Cisco Systems Inc. and Nortel Networks Corp. in a fierce battle to supply telephone companies, Internet service providers and large corporations with sophisticated equipment that can transmit increasingly large volumes of data and voice traffic. 

 Some analysts criticized Lucent for growing too quickly and losing touch with some of its customers. Lucent, which has expanded aggressively through acquisitions, missed crucial clues about customers' insatiable need for more powerful optical networking equipment and changes in buying and ordering patterns, analysts said. 

 Lucent Chairman Richard McGinn dismissed criticism that the company was growing too fast. 

 "Some people have suggested that maybe we're pushing too hard in terms of growing the business, but I would report that it hasn't been at the expense of margins. Every single year, margins have gone up and profits have gone up. That is inconsistent with the notion that we're pushing too hard," he said in a telephone interview on Thursday evening. 

 Murray Hill, N.J.-based Lucent said its woes were temporary. It expects its strongest growth to be in the second half of the year as it works out its manufacturing problems and produces enough optical, network access and semiconductor products to meet the robust demand. 

 For the full year, Lucent expects its revenues to rise at the low-end of the 17 percent to 19 percent range that it previously had forecast. Meanwhile, it said full-year profits should grow 20 percent to 25 percent over last year's earnings of $1.20 a share. 

 Some analysts voiced skepticism over Lucent's rosy outlook for the second half of the year. 

 "We remain cautious in the near-term on LU shares as management's revised 2000 guidance appears aggressive given (first-quarter) results, indicating potential exists for future negative revisions," CS First Boston analyst James Parmelee said in a research report. He reiterated a strong buy rating on the stock but trimmed earnings estimates. 

 Salomon Smith Barney, which cut its rating on the stock to neutral from buy, echoed those sentiments and said Lucent's financial guidance for the second half of fiscal 2000 "may be too aggressive." 

 During the quarter, Lucent lost business to rivals who were able to more quickly deliver products to customers, and that business may not be easy to recoup, analysts said. 

 "One company's loss is another company's gain. As Lucent could not execute during the quarter, apparently others did, such as Nortel and Alcatel," said Cruttenden Roth Inc. analyst Dave Kang. 

 In addition to Nortel, CS First Boston analyst Paul Weinstein said Tellabs Inc., CIENA Corp. and Cisco may benefit from Lucent's $1 billion first-quarter sales shortfall. 

 Suppliers of dense wave division multiplexing equipment - which increases the capacity of fiber optic cables - such as JDS Uniphase Corp., SDL Inc. and E-Tek Dynamics Inc. - also may siphon off some of Lucent's customers, other analysts said. 

 In addition to Lucent's key manufacturing problems, it also had flat sales to large corporations and of central office switching equipment, as well as declining sales of wireless equipment and software, said Warburg Dillon Read analyst Nikos Theodosopoulos. 

 "There was generic weakness across many businesses," Theodosopoulos said in a research report. 

 That weakness alarmed some other analysts, who said Lucent's problems may go deeper and linger longer than the company indicated. Lucent also has yet to jump-start its stagnant "enterprise" or corporate customer sales segment, an area where it lags far behind data networking leader Cisco. 

 Lucent's first quarter profit warning marked its second "January surprise." A year ago, the company suffered a revenue shortfall due to a delay in finalizing some customer contracts. 

 While Lucent easily recovered from that stumble, the profit warning may be difficult for investors to forget. 

 (c) 2000 The Times of India Group. 

Document toi0000020010819dw1a0051p




Business
`Old' In Vogue As BHP Tops $21

By Anthony Hughes   
675 words
8 January 2000
Sydney Morning Herald
SMHH
75
English
© 2000 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.   www.smh.com.au

The two-tier nature of the sharemarket was reinforced yesterday, with ``old economy'' stocks such as BHP setting records as the sell-off of Internet shares quickened dramatically on the back of more earnings scares emerging in the US technology market.

The US's technology-based Nasdaq Composite index looked to be heading for more falls overnight after a horror week that has seen 8.4 per cent wiped from its value.

On Thursday night, Nasdaq slumped 3.88 per cent, or 150.4 points, to 3727.1 and looked more vulnerable with a late profit warning by phone equipment supplier Lucent Technologies.

After-hours trading on the Instinet system saw Lucent fall 24 per cent on heavy volume while lesser but still large falls were evident for other US technology leaders.

``I think it's just a shakeout the market has been expecting for a while,'' said Foster Stockbroking's managing director, Mr Stuart Foster. ``I am not too nervous about the technology stocks because they are just back to earlier levels.''

The concerns for the US sharemarket could be compounded when a key labour market report is released overnight, possibly renewing pressure for a bigger-than-expected Federal Reserve interest rate hike next month.

The Fed is likely to lift the official rate by 25 basis points regardless of the labour market figures, but wage pressures are crucial to chairman Dr Alan Greenspan's decision-making.

The top tier of Australian technology stocks were all slammed. Solution 6 slumped $2.83 (20.8 per cent) to $10.80 and New Tel fell 90.5c (24 per cent) to $2.85. Computershare slumped 64c to $6.51 as MYOB shed $1.42 to $11.10 and ecorp 41c to $3.53.

``For stocks which don't have really transparent earnings, it becomes a pass-the-parcel situation,'' one fund manager said.

Nasdaq's plunge stole the limelight despite a 130.61 point, or 1.17 per cent, bounce in the Dow Jones Industrial Average, which in turn help the All Ordinaries index rebound 14.4 points to 3044.5.

The rise here trimmed the week's decline to 108 points or 3.4 per cent as renewed interest rates fear also hurt the market.

Commonwealth Securities director Mr Paul Rickard said: ``It's probably been the busiest period for us, in the past four days, in my experience.

``There are still people happy to buy at these levels. We really don't have many technology stocks compared to the US and there's been nothing like the movement of some of the companies on Nasdaq, which have just been hammered.''

Ironically, investors in old-line leaders in resources and banks had a good day. Most notably, BHP was pushed to a new high after rising $1 to $21.35, while Rio Tinto jumped $1.46 to $33.26 and WMC 32c to $8.57.

It was understood that broker Ord Minnett dealt a large order for resources stocks from a Hong Kong client that helped pushed these stocks higher. Many analysts say resources will benefit from interest rate rises which imply that world growth and prospects for commodity prices are strong.

Of the financials, AMP added 66c to $15.82, NAB 19c to $21.89 and Commonwealth Bank 25c to $25.10. Broker Merrill Lynch reportedly upgraded its projected profit for Commonwealth Bank for the first half from $781 million to $835 million, based on ``stronger non-interest income performance and spread expectations''.

The gains also extended to other industrials such as AGL, 23c to $8.98, Howard Smith, 38c to $10.53 and Brambles, 59c to $40.19.

This was despite consensus on an impending rise in official interest rates among economists late in the week. 


Money
 $A/$US                        65.50    -0.34
 TWI                                56.5       -0.1
 OVERNIGHT CASH        4.93      stdy
 90-DAY BANK BILLS     5.59    -0.02
 10-YEAR BONDS           7.10    -0.01


Document smhh000020010813dw18000nn




 FOCUS-Lucent's woes may linger past first quarter. 

 By Jessica Hall 
1,056 words
7 January 2000
21:10
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 7 (Reuters) - Lucent Technologies Inc.'s bleak first-quarter profit warning rattled the confidence of even its most loyal Wall Street fans, who questioned whether the telecommunications equipment maker's more optimistic forecast for the second half of the year will ring true. 

 Lucent, known for its once-stellar track record of surpassing Wall Street's profit expectations every quarter since it was spun off from AT&T Corp. in 1996, said on Thursday it would report profits for the first quarter ended Dec. 31 fall below analysts' estimates on flat revenues. 

 Lucent now expects to report first-quarter earnings in the range of 36 cents to 39 cents a share, down from 48 cents a share a year ago and below Wall Street expectations of 54 cents a share. 

 Lucent said first-quarter revenues were $9.8 billion to $9.9 billion - flat compared with the year-ago quarter and about $1 billion below most analysts' expectations. 

 Lucent said it failed to properly gauge its customers' changing buying patterns and it lacked the manufacturing capacity to keep up with the red-hot demand for optical networking equipment. 

 Wall Street's reaction on Friday was swift and merciless. 

 Shares of Lucent, the most widely-held U.S. stock, fell nearly 23 percent or 15-7/8 to 53-3/16 on the New York Stock Exchange as several influential brokerage firms quickly downgraded the stock, including Merrill Lynch, Lehman Bros., Salomon Smith Barney, Warburg Dillon Read and SG Cowen. 

 Lucent's trading volume was over 136 million shares, a single-session NYSE record for any one stock. The previous record was 103.79 million shares of Occidental Petroleum Corp. in June, 1988. 

 A class action lawsuit was filed against Lucent on Friday, claiming the equipment maker previously made false statements about its financial condition. 

 Lehman analyst Steve Levy said in a research report he expects Lucent shares to trade at lower levels "until credibility and confidence are restored." Salomon Smith Barney set a 12-month price target of $50 a share on Lucent, and Warburg Dillon Read set a $57 a share price target. 

 Lucent has been "stretching" to achieve its aggressive revenue targets for the last five quarters, which has "left the company vulnerable to small pockets of turbulence that it would otherwise have been able to safely navigate," Levy said. 

 Lucent has been pitted against chief rivals Cisco Systems Inc. and Nortel Networks Corp. in a fierce battle to supply telephone companies, Internet service providers and large corporations with sophisticated equipment that can transmit increasingly large volumes of data and voice traffic. 

 Some analysts criticised Lucent for growing too quickly and losing touch with some of its customers. Lucent, which has expanded aggressively through acquisitions, missed crucial clues about customers' insatiable need for more powerful optical networking equipment and changes in buying and ordering patterns, analysts said. 

 Lucent Chairman Richard McGinn dismissed criticism that the company was growing too fast. 

 "Some people have suggested that maybe we're pushing too hard in terms of growing the business, but I would report that it hasn't been at the expense of margins. Every single year, margins have gone up and profits have gone up. That is inconsistent with the notion that we're pushing too hard," he said in a telephone interview on Thursday evening. 

 Murray Hill, N.J.-based Lucent said its woes were temporary. It expects its strongest growth to be in the second half of the year as it works out its manufacturing problems and produces enough optical, network access and semiconductor products to meet the robust demand. 

 For the full year, Lucent expects its revenues to rise at the low-end of the 17 percent to 19 percent range that it previously had forecast. Meanwhile, it said full-year profits should grow 20 percent to 25 percent over last year's earnings of $1.20 a share. 

 Some analysts voiced scepticism over Lucent's rosy outlook for the second half of the year. 

 "We remain cautious in the near-term on LU shares as management's revised 2000 guidance appears aggressive given (first-quarter) results, indicating potential exists for future negative revisions," CS First Boston analyst James Parmelee said in a research report. He reiterated a strong buy rating on the stock but trimmed earnings estimates. 

 Salomon Smith Barney, which cut its rating on the stock to neutral from buy, echoed those sentiments and said Lucent's financial guidance for the second half of fiscal 2000 "may be too aggressive." 

 During the quarter, Lucent lost business to rivals who were able to more quickly deliver products to customers, and that business may not be easy to recoup, analysts said. 

 "One company's loss is another company's gain. As Lucent could not execute during the quarter, apparently others did, such as Nortel and Alcatel," said Cruttenden Roth Inc. analyst Dave Kang. 

 In addition to Nortel, CS First Boston analyst Paul Weinstein said Tellabs Inc., CIENA Corp. and Cisco may benefit from Lucent's $1 billion first-quarter sales shortfall. 

 Suppliers of dense wave division multiplexing equipment - which increases the capacity of fiber optic cables - such as JDS Uniphase Corp., SDL Inc. and E-Tek Dynamics Inc. - also may siphon off some of Lucent's customers, other analysts said. 

 In addition to Lucent's key manufacturing problems, it also had flat sales to large corporations and of central office switching equipment, as well as declining sales of wireless equipment and software, said Warburg Dillon Read analyst Nikos Theodosopoulos. 

 "There was generic weakness across many businesses," Theodosopoulos said in a research report. 

 That weakness alarmed some other analysts, who said Lucent's problems may go deeper and linger longer than the company indicated. Lucent also has yet to jump-start its stagnant "enterprise" or corporate customer sales segment, an area where it lags far behind data networking leader Cisco. 

 Lucent's first quarter profit warning marked its second "January surprise." A year ago, the company suffered a revenue shortfall due to a delay in finalising some customer contracts. 

 While Lucent easily recovered from that stumble, the profit warning may be difficult for investors to forget. (( Jessica Hall, New York newsroom 212-859-1729)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw1705iyo




 Lucent's woes may linger longer than first quarter. 

 By Jessica Hall 
1,030 words
7 January 2000
20:06
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 7 (Reuters) - Lucent Technologies Inc.'s bleak first-quarter profit warning rattled the confidence of even its most loyal Wall Street fans, who questioned whether the telecommunications equipment maker's more optimistic forecast for the second half of the year will ring true. 

 Lucent, known for its once-stellar track record of surpassing Wall Street's profit expectations every quarter since it was spun off from AT&T Corp. in 1996, said on Thursday it would report profits for the first quarter ended Dec. 31 fall below analysts' estimates on flat revenues. 

 Lucent now expects to report first-quarter earnings in the range of 36 cents to 39 cents a share, down from 48 cents a share a year ago and below Wall Street expectations of 54 cents a share. 

 Lucent said first-quarter revenues were $9.8 billion to $9.9 billion - flat compared with the year-ago quarter and about $1 billion below most analysts' expectations. 

 Lucent said it failed to properly gauge its customers' changing buying patterns and it lacked the manufacturing capacity to keep up with the red-hot demand for optical networking equipment. 

 Wall Street's reaction on Friday was swift and merciless. 

 Shares of Lucent, the most widely-held U.S. stock, fell nearly 24 percent or 16-7/16 to 52-15/16 as several influential brokerage firms quickly downgraded the stock, including Merrill Lynch, Lehman Bros., Salomon Smith Barney, Warburg Dillon Read and SG Cowen. 

 Afternoon volume was over 120 million shares, a single-session New York Stock Exchange record for any one stock. The previous record was 103.79 million shares of Occidental Petroleum Corp. on June 17, 1988. 

 Lehman analyst Steve Levy said in a research report he expects Lucent shares to trade at lower levels "until credibility and confidence are restored." Salomon Smith Barney set a 12-month price target of $50 a share on Lucent, and Warburg Dillon Read set a $57 a share price target. 

 Lucent has been "stretching" to achieve its aggressive revenue targets for the last five quarters, which has "left the company vulnerable to small pockets of turbulence that it would otherwise have been able to safely navigate," Levy said. 

 Lucent has been pitted against chief rivals Cisco Systems Inc. and Nortel Networks Corp. in a fierce battle to supply telephone companies, Internet service providers and large corporations with sophisticated equipment that can transmit increasingly large volumes of data and voice traffic. 

 Some analysts criticised Lucent for growing too quickly and losing touch with some of its customers. Lucent, which has expanded aggressively through acquisitions, missed crucial clues about customers' insatiable need for more powerful optical networking equipment and changes in buying and ordering patterns, analysts said. 

 Lucent Chairman Richard McGinn dismissed criticism that the company was growing too fast. 

 "Some people have suggested that maybe we're pushing too hard in terms of growing the business, but I would report that it hasn't been at the expense of margins. Every single year, margins have gone up and profits have gone up. That is inconsistent with the notion that we're pushing too hard," he said in a telephone interview on Thursday evening. 

 Murray Hill, N.J.-based Lucent said its woes were temporary. It expects its strongest growth to be in the second half of the year as it works out its manufacturing problems and produces enough optical, network access and semiconductor products to meet the robust demand. 

 For the full year, Lucent expects its revenues to rise at the low-end of the 17 percent to 19 percent range that it previously had forecast. Meanwhile, it said full-year profits should grow 20 percent to 25 percent over last year's earnings of $1.20 a share. 

 Some analysts voiced scepticism over Lucent's rosy outlook for the second half of the year. 

 "We remain cautious in the near-term on LU shares as management's revised 2000 guidance appears aggressive given (first-quarter) results, indicating potential exists for future negative revisions," CS First Boston analyst James Parmelee said in a research report. He reiterated a strong buy rating on the stock but trimmed earnings estimates. 

 Salomon Smith Barney, which cut its rating on the stock to neutral from buy, echoed those sentiments and said Lucent's financial guidance for the second half of fiscal 2000 "may be too aggressive." 

 During the quarter, Lucent lost business to rivals who were able to more quickly deliver products to customers, and that business may not be easy to recoup, analysts said. 

 "One company's loss is another company's gain. As Lucent could not execute during the quarter, apparently others did, such as Nortel and Alcatel," said Cruttenden Roth Inc. analyst Dave Kang. 

 In addition to Nortel, CS First Boston analyst Paul Weinstein said Tellabs Inc., CIENA Corp. and Cisco may benefit from Lucent's $1 billion first-quarter sales shortfall. 

 Suppliers of dense wave division multiplexing equipment - which increases the capacity of fiber optic cables - such as JDS Uniphase Corp., SDL Inc. and E-Tek Dynamics Inc. - also may siphon off some of Lucent's customers, other analysts said. 

 In addition to Lucent's key manufacturing problems, it also had flat sales to large corporations and of central office switching equipment, as well as declining sales of wireless equipment and software, said Warburg Dillon Read analyst Nikos Theodosopoulos. 

 "There was generic weakness across many businesses," Theodosopoulos said in a research report. 

 That weakness alarmed some other analysts, who said Lucent's problems may go deeper and linger longer than the company indicated. Lucent also has yet to jump-start its stagnant "enterprise" or corporate customer sales segment, an area where it lags far behind data networking leader Cisco. 

 Lucent's first quarter profit warning marked its second "January surprise." A year ago, the company suffered a revenue shortfall due to a delay in finalising some customer contracts. 

 While Lucent easily recovered from that stumble, the profit warning may be difficult for investors to forget. (( Jessica Hall, New York newsroom 212-859-1729)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw1705isq




 FOCUS - Lucent weighs on Australian stocks. 

447 words
7 January 2000
02:35
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 SYDNEY, Jan 7 (Reuters) - A late profit warning from Lucent Technologies Inc, the world's largest telecommunications equipment maker, hit Australian technology and telecom stocks on Friday. 

 "The reason the market is now down is because of the Lucent Technologies profit warning," said Ord Minnett director of institutions Eric Gale. 

 "Asian markets will struggle on the back of that news," Gale said, with pressure evident on share markets in Japan, Korea and Taiwan. 

 After trade closed in New York, Lucent said its first quarter profits were expected to fall below Wall Street expectations. 

 Earnings for the quarter were seen at 36 cents to 39 cents a share, compared with 48 cents a share a year ago and Wall Street expectations of 54 cents a share. 

 Lucent shares fell US$9.63 in after hours trade to US$60.00, following a US$3.56 fall during business hours. 

 The Nasdaq composite index earlier closed down 150 points or 3.88 percent, and has now retraced more than 10 percent from its record high on Monday, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 130.61 points to 11,253.26. 

 Intersuisse head of equities Andrew Sekely said the Lucent fall was contributing to the negative sentiment, amid concerns about any future declines on Nasdaq. 

 "It's very difficult to define how much is Lucent and how much is Nasdaq, but certainly the market was aware of it and is concerned about the on-going effect on the Nasdaq market," he said. 

 "There's a sort of 'nothing is good news' attitude at the present time." 

 The Australian benchmark All Ordinaries index was down 5.1 points or 0.17 percent at 3,025.0 at 1.15 p.m. (0215 GMT), led by a decline in industrial stocks. 

 Hardest hit among local technology stocks were business software group Solution 6 Holdings Ltd , down A$2.84 at A$10.90, and share registry and financial markets software group Computershare Ltd , down 47 cents at A$6.68. 

 The telecoms sub-index was about two percent lower, with market leader Telstra Corp  eight cents lower at A$7.87 after falling as low as $7.80. It had opened at A$7.94 before the Lucent news had an impact on the sector. 

 Telstra's main rival, Cable & Wireless Optus , was 19 cents lower at A$4.80. It accounts for 24 percent of the telecom index while Telstra represents 66 percent. Both have significant Internet operations in place and under development. 

 ((Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1800, Fax 61-2 9262-4727 sydney.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw1705ge6




 Lucent Missed Chance To Extend Dominance, Analysts Say 

 By Johnathan Burns 
705 words
7 January 2000
20:25
Dow Jones News Service
DJ
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- After the dust settled from Lucent Technologies Inc.'s (LU) surprise profit warning, Wall Street shook its collective head Friday. 

 The general consensus was Lucent's disappointing first quarter for fiscal 2000 is a sign the nation's largest phone equipment maker missed the chance to get even bigger. 

 That, in these growth-frenzied days, was the company's worst sin. 

 "The biggest thing is they lost the opportunity for market gain," said Lehman Brothers Inc. analyst Steven Levy. 

 And what a market it is. The optical equipment market is worth some $300 billion in the coming years, estimates Merrill Lynch & Co. analyst Michael Ching, as data and wireless phone service providers spend to upgrade their networks. 

 Investors, eager to flee Lucent, injected money into Lucent competitors Nortel Networks Corp. (NT), Ciena Corp. (CIEN), Motorola Inc. (MOT), JDS Uniphase Corp. (JDSU) and Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO). Both Ciena's and Nortel's composite stock values rose more than 20%. 

 In the first quarter, Lucent Chief Executive Richard McGinn admitted, didn't read its customers correctly. The company didn't suspect service providers would skip the more established optical equipment and opt for faster, newer products. 

 The company also didn't have enough technicians to install the equipment, said Lucent Chief Financial Officer Don Peterson, nor had it ramped up production lines sufficiently. 

 "This quarter we hit a bump in the road," he told Dow Jones Newswires. "The road in the future looks a lot smoother." 

 Merrill's Ching and Lehman's Levy are both wary. They say Lucent will have to regain investor confidence in the next few quarters. 

 "At some point I wouldn't be surprised to see Lucent rebound," he said. "We see the optical market being very strong in the next couple of years. As the market leader, they enjoy some of the benefits of that market." 

 Lucent said it expects to correct its production problems and have a very strong second half in fiscal 2000. 

 "If we had a high degree of confidence that they'd do that," said Levy, "we wouldn't have downgraded the stock. There are still some questions." 

 To say that Lucent's announcement blindsided most Wall Street observers would be an understatement. The company held a meeting with analysts Nov. 11 and gave no indication that things were going sour. 

 "I don't think they knew," Ching said. "I don't think they had any way of knowing that early." 

 Peterson said Lucent conducted business as usual until about the last week or two in December, when the company noticed it would come in below the consensus estimate of 54 cents in earnings per share in the first quarter. The company said Thursday it expects earnings to fall somewhere between 36 cents and 39 cents a share. 

 Levy said analysts were taken by surprise because they did not know how late in the quarter large sales were expected. 

 He said it was not until the quarter's end that Lucent realized it would come in more than $1 billion below analysts' revenue estimates for the quarter. 

 "They should have telegraphed how back-end loaded the quarter was," Levy said. 

 Ching said Lucent missed as much as $400 million in optical equipment sales due to production problems. The company missed as much as $300 million from decreased software sales - mainly blamed on a lack of competitive local exchange carrier spending - and lost as much as $300 million in wireless equipment sales when an unidentified European service provider cut back on its equipment order. 

 Neither Levy nor Ching thought Wall Street's reaction to Lucent's announcement - which dropped the company's market cap by more than $55 billion - was extreme. 

 "Lucent is struggling a little bit," said Ching. "They need to rebuild some credibility." 

 Lucent shares recently traded at 53 3/16, a 2.3% gain on its after-market closing price of 52. More than 163 million shares had swapped hands. The company ended trading on the New York Stock Exchange Thursday afternoon at 69 1/16. 


  - Johnathan Burns; Dow Jones Newswires;
  201-938-2020;johnathan.burns@dowjones.com


Document dj00000020010805dw17004ga




Abreast of the Market
 3M, Dow Chemical, Bowater Rise As Old-Value Names Find Favor   

 By Robert O'Brien   
Dow Jones Newswires
1,430 words
7 January 2000
The Wall Street Journal
J
C2
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)   

 NEW YORK -- The dynamics changed, but the results didn't, as investors again forsook high-technology stocks in favor of stodgy old value names.   

 Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing climbed 7 1/2 to 100 3/4, while Dow Chemical moved ahead 3 3/4 to 136 15/16, and Bowater rose 3 13/16 to 58 13/16.   

 Capital-equipment stocks, a group that once had few backers, found many. Caterpillar gained 2 1/2 to 51 5/8, after PaineWebber raised its rating, calling its stock depressed after two years of mediocre market performance. Deere rose 2 1/16 to 46 1/16, finally overtaking the 52-week high set last April, after Merrill Lynch issued an upbeat report about the stock.   

 Consumer stocks attracted buyers as well, with Gillette gaining 1 7/16 to 41 5/16, PepsiCo gained 1 9/16 to 36 5/8 and Procter & Gamble, talked up in a Prudential Securities research note, moved 4 5/8 higher to end at 107 3/4.   

 Meanwhile, stocks of cutting-edge technology companies that, up until this week, could command virtually any price, couldn't find buyers, even at considerable discounts. Yahoo! (Nasdaq) sank 42 5/16 to 368 3/16, after trading at more than 500 a share just two days ago. Akamai Technologies shed 47 3/8 to 236 1/8. Internet hothouse CMGI lost 33 points to finish at 250.   

 The divergence in the market showed up in the performance of market averages. The Dow Jones Industrial Average climbed 130.61, a rise of 1.17%, to end at 11253.26. The Nasdaq Composite Index, by comparison, sank 150.41, or 3.88%, to end at 3727.13.   

 "Investors are lowering their exposure to a lot of these dot-com names, looking for safety instead," Adam Weisman, managing director at SoundView Technology, said, adding, though, that sellers hadn't been panicking, because most of them still had big profits even in the stocks that are down sharply from their highs.   

 The scope of those profits, of course, has sown the seeds of the technology group's own undoing, as investors with big paper profits declined to cash out until the new year got under way, due to tax considerations.   

 Investors showed increasing concern over fourth-quarter profit strength, after computer maker Gateway issued a warning late Wednesday that its quarterly profit wouldn't live up to Wall Street's expectations. The stock, which closed at 62 1/4 in primary NYSE trading Wednesday, only to fall in after-hours trading, finished yesterday at 59 5/8.   

 Other computer makers struggled, as well. Hewlett-Packard lost 4 5/16 to 103 9/16, Dell Computer (Nasdaq) fell 1 15/16 to 48 and Apple Computer dropped 9 to 95.   

 Application software stocks, routed earlier this week by an earnings warning from BMC Software, lost ground again. That stock lost 35% Wednesday, then declined 4 13/16 yesterday to end at 44 3/4. CompuWare fell 6 15/16 to 25 1/8 after company officials, appearing at an investor conference, talked about their quarterly targets.   

 Other software developers, such as Mercury Interactive, which dropped 8 1/16 to 81 7/16, and Oracle, down 6 at 96, both on Nasdaq, also suffered declines.   

 The wariness about the earnings outlook even prompted Wall Street to engage in a measure of rumor-mongering. Speculation that Microsoft would guide its quarterly targets lower sent the stock, and market averages, sharply lower in intraday trading; a Microsoft spokesman said the company hasn't changed its guidance for the quarter. The stock finished 3 13/16 lower at 110.   

 Of course, a smattering of technology issues bucked the trend, posting gains. Tellabs (Nasdaq), a telecom-equipment maker, increased 2 3/16 to 63 13/16. Lehman raised its price target on the stock to 105.   

 PeopleSoft (Nasdaq) increased 3 15/16 to 22. The Pleasanton, Calif., application-software developer surprised analysts with an upbeat earnings outlook, saying its fourth-quarter earnings should come in at two to four cents a share, compared with forecasts of a two-cent profit. Monness Crespi Hardt initiated coverage of the stock, saying 2000 will be a building year for the company and 2001 will be a breakout year.   

 Computer Sciences advanced 1 3/4 to 87 7/8 in primary NYSE trading, though it pulled back to 87 3/8 in after-hours trading. In a research note, Merrill Lynch said the stock of the El Segundo, Calif., computer-services concern, which fell 7% Wednesday on a downgrade from Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, had been oversold. Company officials also said in an interview with Dow Jones that they were comfortable with earnings forecasts.   

 But in many cases, even upbeat comments from Wall Street couldn't stem selling pressure. Credit Suisse First Boston started coverage of VA Linux (Nasdaq), a Sunnyvale, Calif., developer of Linux-based products, and the company still declined 20 15/32 to 173.   

 CacheFlow, a Sunnyvale, Calif., networking-equipment concern, shed 13 1/2 to 102, even though First Boston said in a research note that there has been no catalyst for its recent declines.   

 Bad reviews, meanwhile, also hurt stocks. MCI WorldCom (Nasdaq), for example, lost 4 1/16 to 47 3/16, after Salomon Smith Barney shaved its estimates of the company's earnings and revenue growth, though the firm maintained its "buy" rating on the stock.   

 U.S. Interactive fell 12 to 58 1/4. Deutsche Banc cut its rating on the King of Prussia, Pa., Internet-consulting company, citing the recent rise in the stock's price.   

 Diamond Technology gained 1 3/8 to 76 5/16. Goldman Sachs added the stock of the Chicago management-consulting company to its purchase list.   

 Lehman Brothers gained 2 7/8 to 72 7/8 and helped draw buyers to the broader financial sector, after the brokerage leader reported stronger-than-expected fiscal fourth-quarter results.   

 Oil stocks improved, part of the flight-to-safety mentality in the market, as well as hopes for higher commodity prices. Conoco's Class A shares increased 1 11/16 to 25 1/16. Lehman Brothers raised its rating on the stock to a "buy" from a "neutral," saying that the stock's recent pullback made the price attractive.   

 Atlantic Richfield finished 11/16 higher at 80 5/8, after weakening in early trading on some concerns that BP Amoco is anticipating further resistance from U.S. regulators to its acquisition of the Los Angeles energy concern. PaineWebber raised its earnings forecast on Atlantic Richfield.   

 Texaco gained 2 5/8 to 55 5/8. The energy-exploration leader said testing shows its Agbami well off Nigeria has potential reserves of more than one billion oil barrels. The find, said Eugene Nowak, oil-industry analyst, validates Texaco's "potent, high-impact exploration focus."   

 Chevron gained 3 5/8, while Kerr-McGee advanced 1 3/8 to 60 3/16. Oil-services concern BJ Services added 1 7/16 to 40 7/16, after Warburg Dillon Read raised its rating on the stock to "buy" from "hold."   

  Retailers had a mixed session. Toys "R" Us fell 1 7/16 to 12 1/8. The Paramus, N.J., specialty retailer reported holiday sales that showed a decline from year-ago levels. Schroder lowered its rating on the stock, and removed the stock from its recommended list.   

 Meanwhile, some of the other retailing names moved in fairly significant fashion. AnnTaylor fell 6 to 24, despite reporting a sales increase for December. Dayton Hudson fell 3 1/16 to 64 5/16, after the company's department store division posted a same-store sales decline for December. Williams-Sonoma met analysts' sales projections, but the stock tumbled, losing 8 1/2 to 34.   

 Among apparel retailers, Talbot's beat expectations and gained 2 7/16 to 42 7/8. Gap came in a little stronger than analysts forecast, climbing 4 11/16 to 44 7/16.   

 Jewelry retailers weakened, with Tiffany off 3 1/4 to 77, while Zale lost 2 to 44. Consumer-electronics retailers moved both ways, with Tandy falling 5 5/8 to 51 3/8, while Circuit City Stores gained 4 9/16 to 47.   

 FDX advanced 4 13/16 to 47 1/4, after the Memphis package-delivery concern reported solid holiday sales and showed international markets have been strengthening.   

Document j000000020010807dw17001un




 Casino stocks off after Mandalay  profit warning . 

392 words
6 January 2000
15:36
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 6 (Reuters) - U.S. gaming stocks opened lower on Thursday after Las Vegas casino giant Mandalay Resort Group issued a profit warning, citing weak holiday business. 

 While several Wall Street analysts cut their ratings on Mandalay shares, they said the company's poor performance was not a reflection of the entire gaming group. 

 But the sector's stocks took a hit. Mandalay, which operates the Mandalay Bay casino as well as Circus Circus, Excalibur and Luxor on the Las Vegas Strip, tumbled 3-7/8 to 15-3/8 on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 MGM Grand Inc. stock was off 3/4 to 45-5/16, Park Place Entertainment Corp.  opened down 5/16 to 11-1/16, and Mirage Resorts Inc.  was off 3/8 to 13-13/16. 

 Mandalay, which boasts 3,700 rooms, restaurants and entertainment that includes a House of Blues nightclub, said late Wednesday that it expected fourth-quarter profits of 16 cents per share, 9 cents shy of Wall Street expectations. It cited a "soft" holiday season. 

 Analysts, including those at Merrill Lynch, Deutsche Banc Alex Brown and Goldman Sachs, reacted by lowering their ratings and earnings estimates on Mandalay. 

 Merrill Lynch cut the company's intermediate rating to "accumulate" from "buy," while Deutsche Banc Alex Brown cut its fourth-quarter earnings estimate on the company to 14 cents per share from 25 cents. 

 Deutsche Banc Alex Brown maintained Mandalay's rating at "market perform," while Goldman Sachs cut the company's fiscal 2000 earnings estimate to $1.21 per share from $1.31, and cut the 2001 estimate to $1.35 from $1.50. 

 Despite the profit warning, analysts - and Mandalay management - said the poor fourth-quarter performance was a one-time event. 

 "The effect (of the earnings warning) doesn't change our corporate strategy," Mandalay President Glenn Schaeffer said in an interview. 

 Merrill analysts Denise Warren and Seth Weber said in a note that Mandalay, as the operator with the most rooms on the Las Vegas Strip, has the most exposure to Las Vegas visitation trends. 

 "Toward that end, we do not believe other Las Vegas operators will show the same affect from the lower-than-anticipated visitor levels," they said. 

 ((-Edward Tobin, New York Newsdesk, (212) 859-1722)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw16083ml




 Nasdaq steady at mid-session amid losses. 

 By Kristin Roberts 
789 words
6 January 2000
17:57
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 6 (Reuters) - The Nasdaq appeared to have reached a bottom at midday Thursday, the composite index off more than 2 percent but holding steady following a spate of profit warnings and disappointing December retail sales that broadened a technology-stock selloff. 


The Nasdaq composite index	   was off 1.64 percent, or 63.64 points, to 3,814.14. On Wednesday the market measure pared substantial losses late in the trading day to close off 24 points at 3,877.54.
The wider U.S. equity market was firmer, with the Dow Jones industrial average	 , including its two point-losing Nasdaq names Microsoft Corp.  and Intel Corp. , up 117.58 points, or just over one percent, to 11,240, while the Standard & Poor's 500 index	  added 4.14 to 1,406.31.


 Intel shares were off 2-7/8 to 80-13/16, and shed 1-11/16 to 112-1/8. 

 "I think a little bit of common sense is returning to the stock market. The selling is concentrated in the high-fliers from last year," said Alan Skrainka, chief market strategist at Edward Jones. 

 With Thursday's decline, the Nasdaq index is down 6.9 percent from its high of 4,131.15 hit on Monday. Many analysts had been expecting a pull-back of up to 20 percent in technology shares after a stellar performance last year. 

 A 10 percent drop, often defined as a correction, would pin the composite index at 3,718.04. Nasdaq has dropped as much as 8.5 percent in recent days. 

 "Technology has always marked by periods of extreme enthusiasm and extreme pessimism," Skrainka said. "Emotions drive the market in the short run and right now, at least in the technology sector, fear has the upper hand." 

 Profit warnings ahead of the upcoming quarterly earnings reporting season began to litter the market, affecting entire sectors. 

 Chip giant and Dow component Intel Corp.  fell 2-13/16 to 80-13/16 and Dell Computer Corp.  dropped 2-1/4 to 47-11/16. 

 Both stocks were pressured by the downward drive of Gateway Inc.'s stock on the New York Stock Exchange after it issued a profit warning after the bell on Wednesday. 

 Gateway's shortfall was caused by Intel's failure to produce more of its fastest chips. Since Dell is the biggest user of Intel's fast chips, it could crimp Dell's quarter as well, analysts said. 


The Nasdaq 100 index	  of top stocks lost 2.46 percent, or 86.09 points, to 3,421.22. Microsoft Corp. , which alone accounts for roughly 12 percent of the Nasdaq composite, fell 1-13/16 to 112.



MCI Worldcom  was the most active Nasdaq stock. It lost 4 to 47-1/4 after Salomon Smith Barney lowered its 2000 earnings estimates and revenue growth forecasts. Salomon, one of MCI Worldcom's most bullish fans, said it still views the company's growth as unmatched by any large competitor.



Nasdaq's retailers were also beaten back after reporting December sales figures. Urban Outfitters Inc.  fell 8-1/2 to 14-7/8 and was Nasdaq's biggest percentage loser. Restoration Hardware Inc.  fell 1-7/8 to 5 after its sales figures and a profit warning.



BMC Software  lost 1-5/8 to 47-15/16 after forecasting disappointing results. Analysts from four Wall Street firms followed the news with downgrades and cuts to their share price targets.



Qualcomm Inc.  entended losses for the week, falling 8 to 148-7/16 by midday. Yahoo! Inc.  also headed lower, dropping 17-1/2 to 393.



Internet stocks were broadly lower and TheStreet.com's Internet index      fell 29 points, or 2.68 percent, to 1,078. The Dow Jones Internet index	     lost 9 points, or 2.39 percent, to 384. Chip stocks also fell and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange's semiconductor index     lost 9.94 points, or 1.46 percent, to 668.60.
On the upside, the biotechnology sector advanced and the American Stock Exchange's biotech index	  gained 4.60 points, or 1.26 percent, to 368.82.



LifeMinders.com Inc.  rose 1-5/8 to 47-1/8 after saying it passed the 7 million member mark, making it one of the largest member-based direct marketing firms on the Internet. Rival MyPoints.com  rose 3-5/16 to 63-5/16.



The Cobalt Group  surged 13-5/16 to 23-13/16 after saying it would create a Web site that pushes the automotive service company into the hot business-to-business electronic-commerce sector.



((Wall Street Desk 212-859-1730)).



(C) Reuters Limited 2000.


Document lba0000020010821dw1605hy0




 Nasdaq drops after tech sector profit warnings. 

 By Kristin Roberts 
655 words
6 January 2000
16:32
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 6 (Reuters) - Nasdaq resumed its harsh descent early on Thursday, falling more than 2 percent in early trading as profit warnings from some top technology companies gave investors another reason cash out of the sector. 

 The Nasdaq composite index dropped 2.35 percent, or 91 points, to 3,786. On Wednesday the market measure pared substantial losses late in the trading day to close off 24 points at 3,877.54. 

 With Thursday's decline, the Nasdaq index is down 6.9 percent from its high of 4,131.15 Monday. Many analysts had been expecting a pull-back in tech shares after a stellar performance last year. 

 A 10 percent drop, often defined as a correction, would pin the composite index at 3,718.04. Nasdaq has dropped as much as 8.5 percent in recent days. 

 "Obviously you have a lot of professionals with very large gains who upon seeing that Gateway announcement said maybe this is a good time to take some profits and get in at lower levels," said Rick Meckler, senior managing director at Liberty View, Jersey City, N.J. 

 Profit warnings, including one from computer-seller Gateway Inc., ahead of the upcoming quarterly earnings reporting season began to litter the market, affecting entire sectors. 

 Chip giant and Dow component Intel Corp. fell 2-5/8 to 81 and Dell Computer Corp. dropped 2-1/8 to 47-7/16. 

 Both stocks were pressured by the downward drive of Gateway's stock on the New York Stock Exchange after it issued a profit warning after the bell on Wednesday. 

 Gateway's shortfall was caused by Intel's failure to produce more of its fastest chips. Since Dell is the biggest user of Intel's fast chips, it could crimp Dell's quarter as well, analysts said. 

 The broader market pushed forward and the Dow Jones industrial average, including two Nasdaq names, rose 74 points to 11,198 while the Standard & Poor's 500 index gained 1 point to 1,403. 

 The technology sell-off was again broad-based. The Nasdaq 100 index of top stocks lost 2.4 percent, or 84 points, to 3,423. Microsoft Corp., which alone accounts for roughly 12 percent of the Nasdaq composite, fell 1-7/8 to 111-7/8. 

 MCI Worldcom was the most active Nasdaq stock. It lost 3-5/16 to 47-15/16 after Salomon Smith Barney lowered its 2000 earnings estimates and revenue growth forecasts. Salomon, one of MCI Worldcom's most bullish fans, said it still views the company's growth as unmatched by any large competitor. 

 Salomon reiterated its buy rating on the stock. 

 Nasdaq's retailers were also beaten back after reporting December sales figures. Urban Outfitters Inc. fell 8-1/2 to 14-7/8 and was Nasdaq's biggest percentage loser. Restoration Hardware Inc. fell 1-7/8 to 5 after its sales figures and a profit warning. 

 Software companies also slumped. BMC Software lost 1-5/8 to 47-15/16 after forecasting disappointing results. Analysts from four Wall Street firms followed the news with downgrades and cuts to their share price targets. 

 Internet stocks were broadly lower and TheStreet.com's Internet index fell 29 points, or 2.68 percent, to 1,078. The Dow Jones Internet index lost 9 points, or 2.39 percent, to 384. 

 Yahoo! Inc. extended losses, dropping 13-1/2 points to 397. 

 On the upside, the biotechnology sector advanced and the American Stock Exchange's biotech index gained 2 points, or 0.67 percent, to 366. 

 The Cobalt Group also surged, rising 14-1/4 to 124-9/16 after saying it would create a Web site that pushes the automotive service company into the hot business-to-business electronic-commerce sector. 

 ((Wall Street Desk 212-859-1730)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw1605hx5




 Nasdaq logs third day of steep losses, broad selloff. 

 By Kristin Roberts 
769 words
6 January 2000
22:11
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 6 (Reuters) - Nasdaq fell deeper into negative ground on Thursday, pulling more than 10 percent away from its record high hit on Monday, as profit warnings and disappointing retail sales reports gave Wall Street another reason to cash out of the technology sector. 


The Nasdaq composite index	   closed off 3.88 percent, or 150.34 points, to an unofficial 3,727.20, logging its second biggest point decline ever. In the last hour of trading, the tech-driven index dipped as low as 3,715.62, marking a 10 percent drop, which is defined as a correction, from the record closing high of 4,131.15 hit on Monday.


 Many analysts had been expecting a pullback of up to 20 percent in technology shares after a stellar performance last year. 

 "A little bit of common sense is returning to the stock market," said Alan Skrainka, chief market strategist at Edward Jones. 

 "The selling is concentrated in the highfliers from last year. Clearly stock prices had gotten ahead of earnings and technology has always been marked by periods of extreme enthusiasm and extreme pessimism," he said. 


The wider U.S. equities market moved higher with the Dow Jones industrial average	 , including two Nasdaq names, up 130.61 points, or 1.17 percent, to 11,253.26 and the Standard & Poor's 500 index	  up 1.35 points, or 0.10 percent, to 1,403.46.



Profit warnings ahead of the upcoming quarterly earnings reporting season began to litter the market, affecting entire sectors.



"People are finally asking when is profitability going to be there to support these valuations," said Jeffrey Davis, chief investment strategist at State Street Global Advisors.



Chip giant and Dow component Intel Corp.  fell 4-7/8 to 78-3/4 and Dell Computer Corp.  dropped 1-15/16 to 48.



Both stocks were pressured by the downward drive of Gateway Inc.'s stock on the New York Stock Exchange after it issued a profit warning after the bell on Wednesday.



Gateway's shortfall was caused by Intel's failure to produce more of its fastest chips. Since Dell is the biggest user of Intel's fast chips, it could crimp Dell's quarter as well, analysts said.



The Nasdaq 100 index	  of top stocks lost 4.74 percent, or 166.42 points, to 3,340.89. Microsoft Corp. , which alone accounts for roughly 12 percent of the Nasdaq composite, fell 3-13/16 to 110.



MCI Worldcom  was the most active Nasdaq stock. It lost 4-1/16 to 47-3/16 after Salomon Smith Barney lowered its 2000 earnings estimates and revenue growth forecasts. Salomon, one of MCI Worldcom's most bullish fans, said it still views the company's growth as unmatched by any large competitor.



Qualcomm Inc. , Nasdaq's star stock of 1999, continued lower on Thursday, losing 16-3/8 to 140-1/16.



Nasdaq's retailers were also beaten back after reporting December sales figures. Urban Outfitters Inc.  fell 9 to 14-3/8 and was Nasdaq's biggest percentage loser. Restoration Hardware Inc.  fell 1-5/8 to 5-1/4 after its sales figures and a profit warning.



BMC Software  lost 4-13/16 to 44-3/4 after forecasting disappointing results. Analysts from four Wall Street firms followed the news with downgrades and cuts to their share price targets.



Internet stocks were broadly lower and TheStreet.com's Internet index      fell 80.98 points, or 7.31 percent, to 1,026.82. The Dow Jones Internet index	     lost 29.46 points, or 7.48 percent, to 364.29. Chip stocks also fell and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange's semiconductor index	   lost 9.31 points, or 1.37 percent, to 669.23.



Hardware makers also slumped. Dell Computer Corp.  traded down 1-15/16 to 48. Apple Computer  fell 9 to 95.



On the upside, the biotechnology sector advanced and the American Stock Exchange's biotech index	  gained 8.69 points, or 2.39 percent, to 372.93.



LifeMinders.com Inc.  rose 3-1/8 to 48-5/8 after saying it passed the 7 million member mark, making it one of the largest member-based direct marketing firms on the Internet. Rival MyPoints.com  rose 2 to 62.



The Cobalt Group  surged 13-5/8 to 24-1/8 after saying it would create a Web site that pushes the automotive service company into the hot business-to-business electronic-commerce sector.



((Wall Street Desk 212-859-1730)).



(C) Reuters Limited 2000.


Document lba0000020010821dw1605hwp




 Mandalay stock hit by  profit warning , but others gain. 

 By Sarah Tippit 
783 words
6 January 2000
22:40
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LOS ANGELES, Jan 6 (Reuters) - Casino giant Mandalay Resort Group took a gamble and lost over the New Year's weekend, but its rivals further north on the Las Vegas Strip won big time. 

 That New Year's bet led to a sharp fall in its stock on Thursday, as Mandalay stock toppled 3-15/16 to 15-5/16 on the New York Stock Exchange. 

 The Las Vegas casino powerhouse said on Wednesday its fourth quarter earnings would fall short of Wall Street forecasts due to a soft holiday season and cited millennium jitters for keeping visitors away. 

 That news sent U.S. gaming stocks lower early on Thursday, but by the end of trading Mandalay had taken the biggest hit as analysts said the problems were mostly confined to Mandalay, one of the biggest casino operators on the Las Vegas Strip. 

 Mandalay's rival Park Place Entertainment Corp.  lost 1/4 to 11-1/8 on the NYSE. After early declines, Mirage Resorts Inc.  ended up 12/16 at 15-1/16, and MGM Grand Inc.  rebounded for a gain of 1-11/16 to 47-3/4. 

 For the New Year's weekend, Mandalay spent millions to bring entertainer Bette Midler to its new flagship $1 billion Mandalay Bay resort as a magnet for high rollers. 

 Mandalay bet that its smaller, older properties, such as Circus Circus and Excalibur on the Las Vegas Strip, which typically cater to California slot players, would fill up with locals wanting to start 2000 with pockets full of coins. 

 But even Midler, known as the Divine Ms. M, was unable to pack a full house despite competing casino operators further north such as Park Place, Mirage and MGM Grand, which were mostly sold out. 

 And a goodly number of Mandalay's best customers, Californians, decided to stay safely within their own borders on New Year's Eve due to millennium bug jitters and the perception that holiday prices in Las Vegas had been jacked up too high. 

 Just weeks after recently telling analysts not to lower their estimates, Mandalay said late Wednesday that it expected fourth-quarter profits of 16 cents per share - 9 cents shy of Wall Street expectations. 

 While several Wall Street analysts cut their ratings on Mandalay, they said the company's poor performance was not a reflection of the entire gaming group, which fared better than last year during the holiday season despite fewer-than-expected Las Vegas guests over the New Year's weekend due to millennium jitters and high room rates. 

 "We view Mandalay's earnings shortfall pre-announcement as an incident related to weak demand from southern California during the holiday season," said Robertson Stephens analyst Harry Curtis, who cut his fourth quarter per share estimate on Mandalay from 25 cents to 13 cents. 

 About a third of the total number of visitors to Las Vegas come from southern California, according to the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority. Many of them drive rather than fly and stay at lower and mid-range hotels such as the ones owned by Mandalay, which controls about 30 percent of the hotel rooms in Las Vegas. 

 Over the New Year's weekend traffic on highways from California into Nevada was thin as many revellers decided to remain close to home. Mandalay properties, which attract fewer high rollers and so relay more on room rates than gambling for earnings, took a hit, analysts said. 

 "Mandalay is the operator in Las Vegas with the highest leverage to poor occupancy," Curtis said. 

 With the exception of its upscale $1 billion flagship tropical resort, Mandalay Bay and the nearby Egyptian-themed Luxor, most of its hotels are older and have to compete with several brand new upscale resorts that have added thousands of pristine rooms to The Las Vegas Strip in the past year. 

 In addition, Mandalay's competitors, including Mirage and MGM Grand, have recently poured millions into extensive room renovations to keep up with the new competition. 

 To make matters worse, those rivals, who have a long history of catering to high rollers, hand out up to 80 percent of their hotel rooms for free and make up their money at the gambling tables. By contrast, Mandalay Bay, which generates more slot machine than high-end table play, has to depend more on room revenues. 

 Despite the profit warning, analysts, and Mandalay management, said the poor fourth-quarter performance was a one-time event. 

 "The effect (of the earnings warning) doesn't change our corporate strategy," Mandalay President Glenn Schaeffer said in an interview on Wednesday. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw1605g7i


 Business 
 MONEYLINE; CNNfn 

 Willow Bay, Stuart Varney, Rhonda Schaffler, Charles Molineaux, Bill Dorman, Bruce Francis, Susan Lisovicz, Fred Katayama, Kelli Arena, Mary Kathleen Flynn, Greg Clarkin, Susan Lisovicz, Allan Dodds Frank 
8,576 words
6 January 2000
23:30
CNNfn: Moneyline News Hour
MNYL
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 WILLOW BAY, CNNfn ANCHOR: Call it the Nasdaq`s Y2K correction. Investors are scrambling for the exits. Now it`s three days, 400 points, and counting. 

 STUART VARNEY, CNNfn ANCHOR: An after-the-bell bombshell for Wall Street`s most widely held stock. Lucent (URL: http://www.lucent.com/) `s first profit warning ever. 

 BAY: A stock-bubble alert for Sony. But the warning came not from  an analyst, but the company`s very own president. 

 VARNEY: And as if you couldn`t tell by the mall crowds, it was a blockbuster holiday shopping season. From diamonds to DVD`s, retailers haven`t done this well since Christmas 1992. 

 ANNOUNCER: This is the MONEYLINE NEWS HOUR. 

 Reporting tonight from New York, Stuart Varney and Willow Bay. 

 BAY: It was another day of wild, edge-of-your-seat trading. 

 VARNEY: That`s right. The Dow staged a triple-digit rally while the Nasdaq took a triple-digit dive, and that has never happened before. In fact, it was the second-worst point drop ever for the Nasdaq, and that followed Tuesday`s record sell-off. The index shed 150 points and finished just shy of what Wall Street calls a correction, and that is a 10 percent fall from a high. 

 Now, this very large tech sell-off may in fact worsen tomorrow. After the market closed, Lucent blindsided investors with an unprecedented profit warning. The stock -- which is, by the way, the nation`s most widely held -- plunged 17 5/16 in after-hours trading. 

 Rhonda Schaffler has more from Wall Street. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 RHONDA SCHAFFLER, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Lucent shocked the Street after the close of trading, warning earnings for the latest quarter could be as much as a third lower than consensus estimates. The company also expects revenues to be flat compared with last year. 

 This marks the first earnings warning from Lucent since it was spun off from AT&T (URL: http://www.att.com/) in 1996. The news followed a day of decisive change in market leadership, as investors abandoned techs in favor of economically sensitive issues. But whether their newfound love affair is a temporary defensive move or a more systemic shift remains unclear. 

 TOM GALLAGHER, CIBC WORLD MARKETS: Money poured into utilities, and it started to go into the CAT (URL: http://www.cat.com/) tractors and the ALCOA  America Inc.; Ticker: AA ; URL: http://www.alcoa.com/>s and the DuPont (URL: http://www.dupont.com/) s of the world. I don`t necessarily think those stocks are going to go up, necessarily. I think people will hide in those areas, and at some point in time they`ll become a source of funds because people can sell them. 

 SCHAFFLER: Dow components Caterpillar, DuPont, Johnson & Johnson (URL: http://www.jnj.com/) , 3M (URL: http://www.mmm.com/) and Procter & Gamble (URL: http://www.pg.com/) all white-hot all of a sudden. Those five, and financial issues, led the Dow Jones industrials to their second triple-digit gain in a row, bringing the index back to 11253 on heavy volume. Oil stocks also racked up big gains. 

 But technology continued to stumble. Investors` nerves, already rattled by the sector`s heavy losses Tuesday, were shaken again on a profit warning from computer maker Gateway (URL: http://www.gateway.com/) issued late yesterday. The Nasdaq composite dipped another 150 points, or nearly four percent, to 3727. That`s just shy of a 10 percent correction from Monday`s record close. 

 STEVE SHOBIN, LEHMAN BROTHERS: We`re seeing very high volatility, which is not the mark of a major top. So yes, minor top, yes, pullback, correction, consolidation -- but no major top buy dips. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 SCHAFFLER: Shobin does stress we may not have seen the worst yet and that investors should wait until the dust settles to start nibbling at technology shares. 

 But his bottom line: This is no bear market for techs --Stuart. 

 VARNEY: Rhonda, the $64,000 question is: What impact tomorrow from the Lucent news? 

 SCHAFFLER: Well, it could have an impact because we did see some other tech stocks sell off after hours. And psychologically, remember, Lucent has never disappointed when it comes to profits since it became a company in `96. So from going to never disappointing to a big disappointment could have an impact. 

 VARNEY: Rhonda Schaffler at the Big Board. Thank you, Rhonda. 

 BAY: The Nasdaq`s brutal selling over the past three days makes it hard to believe the index was at an all-time high on Monday. The downturn has already wiped out one-fifth of last year`s historic gains. 

 Charles Molineaux has been following the Nasdaq`s nosedive, and he joins us from the Nasdaq market site with the latest -- Charles. 

 CHARLES MOLINEAUX, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Willow, actually for a brief period today, the Nasdaq composite was down more than the 10 percent from its record, which would have constituted a correction. 

 Market strategists see -- we`ve seen a scary sea-change for technology stocks. Up until yesterday, while Internet stocks have been weak, the traditional techs held on to some strength. Today pessimism about earnings and interest rates stunned virtually all the techs, and the Nasdaq`s 150-point loss was its second-worst point loss ever. 

 Internet names were sold off again today, and fell by seven percent. Yahoo! (URL: http://www.yahoo.com/) , for one, lost 10 percent. Computer stocks fell almost five percent, partly because of what we heard from Gateway (URL: http://www.gateway.com/) today, which doesn`t even trade on the Nasdaq. That news shot chip giant Intel (URL: http://www.intel.com/) down six percent. Telecom stocks fell 4 1/2 percent. High-profile player Qualcomm (URL: http://www.qualcomm.com/) slid by another 10. 

 But investors rotated into bank stocks, which gained one percent. Zions Bancorp (URL: http://www.zionsbank.com/) gained 81 cents, about 1 1/2 percent. And take a look at the biotechs. They lifted by 2 1/2 percent. Genzyme (URL: http://www.genzyme.com/) picked almost six percent. 

 Some market watchers say the picture for technology investors has gotten a lot scarier since yesterday. If the sell-off in tech stocks doesn`t turn around soon, it will start feeding on itself and pick up some momentum downward. 

 They are focusing on the next big piece of news on the economy, which will be tomorrow`s labor report -- Stuart, Willow. 

 BAY: Charles, we just asked Rhonda this. What do you think the impact on the Nasdaq will be about this news from Lucent? 

 MOLINEAUX: Absolutely a significant consideration as we get into the day tomorrow. Keep in mind, we are heading into the season where we are going to start hearing about earnings, and this has got to be a major bellwether for a lot of these companies. We saw a major blow for a number of these techs, most notably Intel (URL: http://www.intel.com/) and Dell (URL: http://www.dell.com/) , when we got that negative report from Gateway (URL: http://www.gateway.com/) . Lucent (URL: http://www.lucent.com/) is certainly going to affect a lot of the telecoms tomorrow. 

 BAY: Charles Molineaux at the Nasdaq, thank you. 

 VARNEY: If investors are indeed worried about an overheating economy, the nation`s retailers gave them yet another reason. Today they spelled out exactly how happy the holiday season was. Wal*Mart (URL: http://www.wal-mart.com/) , the country`s biggest retailer, said its same-store sales jumped more than nine percent in December, very strong. Kmart (URL: http://www.kmart.com/) rose 5 1/2 percent. Federated (URL: http://www.federated-fds.com/) Department Stores, which owns Macy`s and Bloomingdale`s, up more than six percent. Customers also flocked to high-end stores, boosting Neiman Marcus (URL: http://www.neimanmarcus.com) sales more than 14 percent. 

 Now check how those stocks reacted. Wal*Mart up about three- quarters of a point; Federated down nearly one-half; Kmart no change; Neiman Marcus up 1 1/2. 

 BAY: But Americans are slowing their purchases of new homes, perhaps responding to higher interest rates. New homes sales fell more than seven percent in November, the sharpest drop in nearly two years. This gave some hope to bond market. Prices on the 30-year Treasury jumped 28/32, rebounding after yesterday`s big sell-off, pushing the yield down to 6.54. Meanwhile, the dollar surged to a six-week high against the Japanese yen. It was barely changed against other major currencies. 

 VARNEY: The turbulence on Wall Street sparked widespread selling across the world. London`s FT 100 lost more than one percent, slumping to its lowest close in six weeks. The markets in Frankfurt and Paris also slipped. Tokyo`s Nikkei stock index dropped two percent overnight, as investors bailed out of high-tech shares there. As for Hong Kong, stocks plummeted more than four percent -- that`s on  top of a seven percent drop just the day before. 

 BAY: One of the biggest losers in Asia and on Wall Street: Sony, which lost nearly 13 percent of its value. The stock shed $32 and wiped  out $14 billion of the company`s market capitalization. It wasn`t a profitwarning or an analyst`s downgrade that punished Sony, but instead the company`s president, talking about -- of all things -- a 

 stock bubble. 

 Bill Dorman has the story. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 BILL DORMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Sony (URL: http://www.world.sony.com/) makes everything from televisions to digital cameras, movies to video-game consoles. But the company is increasingly focusing on Internet- related businesses, and it`s been drawing investors faster than Walkmans run out of batteries. 

 After steady gains in the first part of 1999, Sony stock began rising sharply this fall, and then exploded in December. In Tokyo trading Tuesday, Sony hit an all-time high of more than 32,000 yen, more than $300. 

 Too much, said Sony president, Nobuyuki Idei, who told a Reuters (URL: http://www.reuters.com/) reporter, quote, "When our earnings levels are considered, the appropriate price would be about 20,000 yen. Above that would be a bubble." Idei gets no argument from money managers, who say Sony`s tumble was inevitable, as part of technology`s recent fall. 

 FRANK HUSIC, HUSIC CAPITAL MGMT.: It was probably destined for profit- taking, because that period of tremendous optimism about these groups really ended on December 31st, and it won`t resume for some time. 

 DORMAN: And while Sony has great plans for its Internet businesses, its current profits come from more traditional areas -- sales of electronics, and its Sony PlayStation video consoles and games. That makes the recent rise in its stock price even more surprising. 

 JEFF PITTSBURG, PITTSBURG INSTITUTIONAL: To go from $65 to $295 on a brick-and-mortar company is a little bit much. You can`t get that kind of revenue growth. 

 DORMAN: Sony`s revenue growth largely depends on the success of PlayStation, and its overseas sales, which make up more than 70 percent of its overall sales. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 DORMAN: Sony is also a key part of the Tokyo stock market. It`s one of 225 companies in the Nikkei index. And most analysts expect the company`s stock will at some point rise again -- just not quite so far quite so fast -- Willow, Stuart. 

 BAY: Bill Dorman, thank you. 

 VARNEY: Now let`s check in with some of MONEYLINE`s other reporters. Let`s find out what they`re working on for tonight`s program. 

 And we begin with Bruce Francis -- Bruce. 

 BRUCE FRANCIS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Stuart, Lucent`s earnings warning is decimating the stock in after-hours trading and shattering a perfect record on profits. I`ll have the story. 

 SUSAN LISOVICZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: And I`m Susan Lisovicz. 

 The $3,000 TV is a popular indulgence lately. I`ll tell you why electronics stores are among the retailers that benefited most over the holiday season. 

 BAY: And still ahead on MONEYLINE: We have seen the future and, well, it`s in Las Vegas. We`ll bring you the next-generation gadgets at the Consumer Electronics Show. 

 VARNEY: Plus, much more on the Nasdaq`s high-speed slide. We`ll speak with a tech-fund manager who`s been bailing out of that sector since the year began. 

 ANNOUNCER: From CNN`s New York headquarters, this is the MONEYLINE NEWS HOUR. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Intel tops tonight`s "MONEYLINE Movers," down 4 7/8. ABN AMRO downgraded the chipmaker to a "hold." It said contrary to expectations, Intel will not benefit from the shift to Windows 2000 until the fourth quarter. 

 Corel (URL: http://www.corel.com/) gained 5 1/2. The company said its Linux operating system can run Windows applications seamlessly, meaning users can run their computers on Linux and still have access to Windows programs. 

 PeopleSoft  (URL: http://www.peoplesoft.com/) up nearly four. The enterprise software maker said fourth-quarter earnings may come in two cents better than expected. It cited a jump in licensing revenue. 

 And Mandalay (URL: http://www.mandalayresortgroup.com/) sank nearly four, trading at nearly 10 times its normal volume. Several analysts downgraded the company after it warned of a fourth-quarter profit shortfall. The operator of Circus Circus and Luxor Casinos blamed weak holiday business. 

 VARNEY: Elsewhere on the corporate front, NorTel (URL: http://www.nortelnetworks.com/) Networks continues its plan to bring high-speed Internet access over the telephone. The telecom equipment maker will buy Promatory Communications <http://www.promatory.com/> for $778 million in stock. Promatory`s DSL technology helps carry Internet traffic 150-times faster than analog modems. Shares of NorTel Networks down 4 1/2 points today. But I`d like to add, in light of Lucent`s profit warning, NorTel is down another -- another 8 1/2 points in after-hours trading. 

 Microsoft (URL: http://www.microsoft.com/) wants another piece of the Internet. It`ll team up with Barnes & Noble (URL: http://www.BarnesandNoble.com) to form an online bookstore. Users will access electronic books with Microsoft`s Reader Software on barnesandnoble.com (URL: http://www.bn.com/) . Separately, barnesandnoble.com said fourth- quarter sales tripled to over $81 million. Barnesandnoble.com up 5/8. It`s parent company gained 3 5/8. 

 BAY: Thousands of East Coast air travelers grounded today, when a crucial computer went on the blink for about three hours. According to the FAA, the failure is thought to be unrelated to Y2K. 

 Fred Katayama looks at a problem for airlines that stretches far beyond today. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 FRED KATAYAMA, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Today`s computer glitch that delayed or canceled flights for thousands of passengers fuels the ongoing debate over who`s to blame for the sky-high number of delays. 1999 proved the worst year on record for on-time performance. Nearly a quarter of all flights arrived late. The airlines blamed the Federal Aviation Administration and its old computers, and says traffic controllers are still getting used to its new computers. 

 CAROL HALLETT, PRESIDENT, AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION: 1999 was a year of significant delays, and the vast majority of it was related to not only computer equipment that is operated by the air traffic control system, but also weather was directly linked to all of this. 

 KATAYAMA: The FAA has pointed the finger at airlines in the past, saying they schedule too many flight. Today, it said in a statement, "Reductions and delays will require a concerted effort by all parties -- airlines, controllers and the FAA." 

 Delays like the one today, airlines say, cut into profits, costing them more than $3 billion last year in crew overtime, extra fuel and the like. That`s roughly seven percent of the industry`s estimated earnings. 

 (on camera): The airlines say delays also cost them customers. Passenger complaints more than doubled in the first nine months of last year. Their top gripe: delays. The problem, one analyst says, isn`t the airlines or the FAA, it`s Congress. 

 JULIUS MALDUTIS, ANALYST CIBC WORLD MARKETS: There is enough blame to go around. Let`s start with the fundamental source of the problem, and that is the fact that Congress has not provided the adequate funding required to modernize the system. 

 KATAYAMA (voice-over): The airlines face an even bigger problem than delays. It`s labor unrest. Analysts predict several strikes may hit the airlines this year, which could keep planes on the ground instead of  in the air. 

 Fred Katayama, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: Turning now to the day`s top stories outside the world of business, in the MONEYLINE news digest, dozens arrested in Miami, protesting plans to return 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez to Cuba. Attorney General Janet Reno is facing pressure to reverse the decision. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 JANET RENO, U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL: I try to be as open-minded as I can. But based on all the information that we have to date, I see no basis for reversing it. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 VARNEY: U.S. Immigration officials decided this week that Elian belongs with his father in Cuba. 

 President Clinton rejoined peace talks between Syria and Israel, hoping to break a stalemate. It is day four of the negotiations. 

 And Atlanta Braves pitcher John Rocker ordered to undergo psychological testing after his tirade about gays and minorities. Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig says he wants to see the test results before deciding whether to discipline Rocker. A late development, John Rocker has agreed to that psychological testing. 

 BAY: Coming up, pink slips are being handed out to thousands of people who helped fix the Y2K bug. 

 VARNEY: What will they do now? That story is coming up. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Now that the Y2K bug has apparently been squashed, many companies who helped the nation through the rollover are making a transition of their own, and that means many of their employees are looking for new jobs. 

 Kelli Arena reports from Washington. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 KELLI ARENA, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Keane  (URL: http://www.keane.com/) Incorporated is a 35-year-old information technology company. It built its reputation on helping firms adapt to changing technologies. It was that reputation that helped turn it into a leading Y2K specialist. As recently as 1998, about a third of its revenue, or $350 million, came from Y2K-related business. Now the company is reinventing itself again. 

 BRIAN KEANE, CEO, KEANE INC.: We`re significantly involved today in e- commerce, e-solutions arena. Much of our Y2K revenue has been replaced. 

 ARENA: Several hundred Keane employees out of a work force that sometimes reaches as high as 10,000 were let go as a result of that transition. They joined the estimated 100,000 Y2K workers who found themselves unemployed in the final half of 1999, as Y2K problems were solved industry by industry. 

 But those people are unlikely to be out of work for long. By the  end of this year, its projected about 600,000 information technology jobs will be open. By 2005, that number will soar to 1.2 million. 

 JOHN CHALLENGER, CHALLENGER, GRAY & CHRISTMAS: It looks as though the number-one business technology growth area in the year 2000 is going to be Web site development and programming. Every company, small and large, is looking to build a new Web site, enhance its Web site, and these Y2K workers are perfect to come in and do that. 

 ARENA: The need for workers is so great, even those trained in computer languages no longer in normal use, like Cobalt, are in demand. 

 PAUL KARCH, RCG INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY: We`re cross-training them into the newer technologies and teaming them, if you will, with today`s bright young stars. 

 ARENA: Which brings us back to Keane Incorporated. It spent as much as eight percent of last year`s $1 billion revenue on retraining  efforts, a yearly cost it will continue to incur for the foreseeable future, that in an effort to be ready for the next high-tech challenge. 

 Kelli Arena, CNN Financial News, Washington. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: Coming up next, live from Las Vegas, the latest must-have consumer electronics. 

 VARNEY: Yes, you think you`ve got the perfect kitchen, do you? Well, how about a fridge that e-mails you when you`re out of milk? And question, do you really want that? 

 Either way, that`s next. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Checking some of the stocks that hit 52-week lows today: AnnTaylor (URL: N/A) , Toys "R" Us (URL: http://www.toysrus.com/) , Safety-Kleen (URL: http://www.safety-kleen.com/) , Hasbro (URL: http://www.hasbro.com/) and Loews (URL: http://www.loews.com/) . 

 VARNEY: From Las Vegas tonight, the convergence of high technology and consumer convenience. At this year`s Consumer Electronics Show, the word on everyone`s lips is "Internet." 

 As M.K. Flynn tells us, the Net is being applied to televisions, security systems, even refrigerators. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 MARY KATHLEEN FLYNN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): For many people, the highly touted convergence of high-tech and consumer electronics has begun with products such as WebTV. It brings Web browsing through the television and into the home. Now Philips (URL: http://www.philips.com/) , the European electronics maker, is teaming up with America Online (URL: http://www.aol.com/) to extend those Internet television combinations to new levels. You can chat with friends over the Web about the TV show you are watching. But if several companies have their way, that Internet convergence will go much further in reshaping the home. 

 RON KERBER, WHIRLPOOL: The idea of having a screen on a fridge that would help you reorganize your family life, help you look at things like home security, look at planning your schedule, and, in fact, even downloading things like menus, et cetera from the Net, so  that you could cook better became somewhat obvious to us. 

 FLYNN: Whirlpool has teamed up with Sun Microsystems (URL: http://www.sun.com/) , Cisco Systems (URL: http://www.cisco.com/) and GTE (URL: http://www.gte.com/) to create an Internet-enhanced home. Appliances from the refrigerator to the coffeemaker to the home security system can talk to each other over existing phone lines. So if the dishwasher breaks it can alert a repair person by itself and reschedule servicing. You don`t even have to be there to let him in. 

 GEORGE PAOLINI, SUN MICROSYSTEMS: Imagine being able to access that camera from work or wherever you are on the road through an average personal computer, see who`s at the door and actually provide them access, electronically, to open that door, from a remote location. 

 FLYNN: Those doors, as well as the lights in your house, can be operated 

 from the cellular phones of the near future that are Internet accessible. There are also advances in the security of Web shopping from home. Sun and Visa have combined technologies to develop smart  cards that give you greater protection when shopping online. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 FLYNN: Some of these products might be closer to home than you might think. In Europe, Whirlpool  (URL: http://www.whirlpool.com/) is already selling an oven that you can preheat from, say, your office PC before you leave work, and they expect to be introducing that product and others in the U.S. by the end of the year -- Stuart and Willow. 

 VARNEY: Mary Kathleen, what about cell phones with Internet access? That`s a big deal on Wall Street these days. 

 FLYNN: Yes. This is one of my favorite trends out here, that the Internet is everywhere. We`ve seen more and more cell phones that can get on the Web. There are also wrist watches, not mine, but other wristwatches that we`ve seen that can let you get on the Net, too, and even let you listen to digital audio. 

 VARNEY: Not that I`m a Luddite, but there you have it. Mary Kathleen Flynn, in Las Vegas, thank you so much for being with us. 

 BAY: No Net access on your watch, either? 

 VARNEY: No. 

 BAY: Oh, well. 

 There`s still more to come on MONEYLINE, including an after-the-bell tumble for Lucent. America`s most widely held stock issues its first profit warning. A look at what went wrong. 

 VARNEY: Plus, another tech wreck on the Nasdaq as software and Internet stocks pull the index down nearly four percent. 

 That`s coming up on MONEYLINE. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 ANNOUNCER: THE MONEYLINE NEWS HOUR continues. Here again, Stuart Varney and Willow Bay. 

 BAY: Trouble for techs abound: The Nasdaq sinks into correction territory. And then after the bell a tech giant adds to the misery. 

 And talk about role reversal, after getting the cold shoulder from tech-obsessed investors all last year, the blue chips are hot again. 

 A key to the markets` future is interest rates, and their next  move could be determined tomorrow. We`ll have a preview. 

 VARNEY: But, our top story tonight, a painful blow for the most widely held stock in America. Shares of Lucent tumbling tonight, after the company warned late today it will not meet analysts` estimates for the first quarter. The chairman calling the period "clearly disappointing." And no doubt investors agree. The stock plunging 18 points in after-hours trading. 

 For more on the Lucent`s first profit warning ever, Bruce Francis reports. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 FRANCIS (voice-over): Lucent`s perfect track record on earnings is now shattered, along with the belief that fast-growing telecommunications sector is bullet-proof. Lucent says it will now report first-quarter earnings of 36 to 39 cents a share, down from an estimated 54 cents. 

 In a statement, Lucent CEO Richard McGinn said that, "We are clearly disappointed with the results for the quarter. We still expect our revenues to continue to grow three to five percentage faster than the overall communications networking market." 

 Analysts were shocked by the magnitude of the shortfall in Lucent`s revenue. The company is now projecting that it will take in as little as $9.8 billion, $1.5 billion less than expected. 

 PAUL SILVERSTEIN, ROBERTSON STEPHENS: This was a big miss, absolutely. And on top of the long road of success the company`s had since 1996, absolutely, this was a blindside. 

 FRANCIS: Lucent blamed its problems on a shift to new products that it couldn`t manufacture fast enough, while customers slacked off on orders for the old. Customers were slower deploying new equipment. Some analysts blame Y2K. And it cited lower software revenues, as customers buy more evenly throughout the year, not just at the end. 

 Lucent stock peaked in mid-December, before many tech stocks. Since then, even before this earnings shocker, Lucent shares had fallen 18 percent. 

 ROBERT WILKES, BROWN BROTHERS HARRIMAN: Lucent remains one of the world-class technology companies, and I think they have enough new products coming out that customers will be wanting to buy. And the telecommunications equipment marketplace should remain one that will grow at roughly the 14 percent rate that Lucent`s expecting it to achieve over the next several years. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 FRANCIS: Lucent`s news is already rippling through the competition. In after-hours trading, NorTel (URL: http://www.nortelnetworks.com/) , Motorola (URL: http://www.mot.com/) , Cisco (URL: http://www.cisco.com/) , Sun Microsystems (URL: http://www.sun.com/) and Nokia (URL: http://www.nokia.com/) are all sharply lower -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: Is this problem general through the industry, or is at problem specific to Lucent? 

 FRANCIS: Both. Some of the problems are specific to Lucent, some could be industry-wide, like some customers slowing down deployments of networking equipment. That could affect a number of players, and that might be why you see this kind of reaction in after- hours. 

 VARNEY: Bruce Francis reporting. Thank you, Bruce -- Willow. 

 BAY: Even before Lucent`s warning, techs spent the third session in a row struggling. The Nasdaq dived in one of its worst sell-offs ever, as bellwethers like Microsoft (URL: http://www.microsoft.com/) , Intel (URL: http://www.intel.com/) and WorldCom (URL: http://www.mciworldcom.com) plunged. 

 Greg Clarkin has more on the tech slide of 2000. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 GREG CLARKIN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): It was the revenge of the value stocks. Companies laughed off just weeks ago as being stodgy and boring in the economy rose, while flashy tech and Net stocks were bloodied for the third straight day. 

 The Nasdaq lost 150 points and is now down almost 10 percent in the last three sessions, a hair away from an official correction. Sun Microsystems dropped five percent of its value today. Its CEO, like many market watchers, blames the tax man. 

 SCOTT MCNEALY, CEO, SUN MICROSYSTEMS: I think a lot of people have had a huge run-up in the last year and wait until after the new year so they could get their capital gains right after the new year and not have to pay Uncle Sam until next year. So I think that`s what`s going on. 

 CLARKIN: Losses on the Nasdaq were staggering. Internet networking company Akamai (URL: http://www.akamai.com/) down 46 points, CMGI (URL: http://www.cmgi.com/) down 43, Qualcomm (URL: http://www.qualcomm.com/) down 16, Intel (URL: http://www.intel.com/) lost almost five. 

 GAIL DUDACK, WARBURG DILLON READ: It`s amazingly orderly, but there does seem to be a shift. And I think it`s going to be primarily, we`ll find afterwards, from portfolio managers locking in those profits in a lot of technology stocks, a little concerned they got a little ahead of themselves, and moving it back into what was traditionally called value. 

 CLARKIN: Value today included DuPont (URL: http://www.dupont.com/) , up better than three. Procter & Gamble (URL: http://www.pg.com/) , Exxon Mobil (URL: http://www.exxon.com/) and J.P. Morgan (URL: http://www.jpmorgan.com/) all jumped nearly five. 

 Today was the first time the Dow gained more than 100 points while the Nasdaq lost more than 100, the blue chips up 130 to 11,253. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 CLARKIN: And tomorrow could be an equally wild ride. The employment report for December is out before the markets open. Now under  normal conditions, the jobs report has the potential to pack a punch, and market watchers agree this week has been far from normal -- Willow. 

 BAY: That is for sure. Greg Clarkin, thank you. 

 But the selling was pretty much limited to tech stocks. The rest of the market actually enjoyed a broad advance. Winners beat out losers on the big board by nearly a five to four margin. But many more stocks hit new lows than highs. Forty-six hit new 52-week highs, while 81 stocks hit new lows. 

 Some of today`s big movers were techs and telecom stocks. Hewlett- Packard (URL: http//www.hp.com/) and Microsoft (URL: http://www.microsoft.com/) lost more than three, Oracle (URL: http://www.oracle.com/) fell six, MCI WorldCom (URL: http://www.mciworldcom.com) down four, and AT&T (URL: http://www.att.com/) off 1 3/4. Another big tech loser, Yahoo! (URL: http://www.yahoo.com/) . The stock plunged more than 42 1/4 and is now down nearly 15 percent so far in 2000. That`s a $17 billion hit to its market cap. 

 VARNEY: Our next guest made a killing last year investing in technology. His fund gained an astounding 187 percent. But since the beginning of 2000, he`s been busy selling. 

 Drew Cupps of the Strong Enterprise Fund joins us now. 

 Drew, welcome to the program. 

 DREW CUPPS, STRONG FUNDS: Thank you, glad to be here. 

 VARNEY: First and obvious question, what impact from the Lucent warning do you expect on tech stocks tomorrow morning? 

 CUPPS: I think that there will be an impact. I think that the message that this event really needs to remind investors of is that we have to a certain degree, especially over the last couple of months, priced perfection into this market. And even the bluest chip stock company among the index can have a misstep. And it`s really never prudent to price perfection in the market. So we`ve been in the process the last couple of days, and perhaps again for the next couple, of taking some of that perfection, that fluff, out of the market. 

 VARNEY: Therefore, the closer of the Nasdaq today is not its low. There`s more selling to come, and it`s going to come tomorrow, you think? 

 CUPPS: Well, I think that there`s a very high likelihood that that may be the case. I think it`s always very difficult to predict the market, but I think you can make a very good understanding of why some more selling might take place. Things are still priced very far into the future. We`re buying these stocks, trading these stocks from earnings based in 2004, 2005. And maybe we`re not quite so willing to look out that far. 

 BAY: So, Drew, for years investors have made money by buying on the dips. Is it just foolish to do that now, to increase your exposure in tech stocks? 

 CUPPS: Well, I think with moves like you just rattled off in Yahoo! falling down 20 points, other stocks falling 20 and 30 points, 15 and 20 percent in a day, you don`t need too many days like that before the fundamentals do catch up with the stock prices. And so it`s always stock by stock, but one of the fantastic things about the technology segment is that the fundamentals truly are astounding, regardless of what goes on in the financial markets. So too much of a correction, and you`re back to a true-value proposition. 

 BAY: So, Drew, pulling money out of tech stocks, where are you putting it? 

 CUPPS: Well, we`ve been looking into the health care area to some degree. We`ve looked at some of the hospital management companies. Besides technology, health care is another part of the market that has demographics working for it. It has innovation working for it. And so that`s another part that has attractive fundamentals and yet had really been ignored for a couple of years. So there`s some opportunities there. 

 BAY: Drew Cupps of Strong Funds, thanks for joining us. 

 CUPPS: My pleasure. 

 VARNEY: Here`s what we have for you next. It was a Christmas to be remembered for the nation`s retailers. The latest sales figures proved those shoppers were out in force. 

 BAY: Will all that free spending lead to another Fed rate hike? We`ll ask our guest, economist Bruce Steinberg, when MONEYLINE continues. 

 Stay with us. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: A sharp slowdown in new homes sales has raised prospects that the red-hot housing market has cooled off, feeling the pinch of the Federal Reserve`s tightening cycle last year. New-home sales fell more than seven percent in November. The bond market warmed to the  news, hopeful that a slowdown in housing might forestall more aggressive rate hikes from the Fed. The benchmark 30-year Treasury up 28/32, the yield down to 6,54 percent. 

 VARNEY: Higher mortgage rates are to blame for that slump in new-home sales. This week, the 30-year fixed-rate mortgage continued its ascent and jumped to its highest level since September of 1996. The 30- year mortgage up 8.2 percent -- up two, I should say, 8.2 percent this week. The 15-year fixed rate averages, and the one-year adjustable, those rates higher as well. 

 BAY: This past holiday shopping season wasn`t just good, it was one of the best of the decade. Retailers today reported rock-solid sales for December. A booming economy and the bull market on Wall Street have left consumers flush with confidence. 

 And as Susan Lisovicz reports, they are buying with abandon. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 SUSAN LISOVICZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): High-tech toys are in high demand at New York`s B&H Electronics -- $3,000 flat TVs, $2,000 digital camcorders and $300 DVDs. 

 The explosion of digital products combined with a strong economy fueled high voltage-sales things among electronics retailers over the holidays. 

 MICHAEL EXSTEIN, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Things like digital television are completely in short supply. Digital camcorders are coming on very strongly, DVDs you know are coming on very strongly. So there has been tremendous new-product introductions, which the consumers seem to be lapping up very quickly. 

 LISOVICZ: New fashion trends were not as tempting. Consumers continue to invest in their homes, and that factor weighed on department stores, which depend heavily on apparel sales -- with the exception of Federated, owner of Macy`s and Bloomingdale`s. 

 Specialty stores as a group performed better, especially Intimate Brands (URL: http://www.intimatebrands.com/) , the owner of Victoria`s Secret. 

 SALLY WALLICK, RETAIL ANALYST, LEGG MASON: The specialty retailers have benefited somewhat at the expense of the department stores. That may be a reflection of the department store`s carrying the leading brands not really differentiating themselves, whereas the specialty retailers tend to do, in many cases, a better job of offering unique fashion. 

 LISOVICZ: But it is upscale retailer Tiffany for whom the holidays sparkled brightest. Its sales increased 27 percent in the holiday period. Analysts say strong buying in luxury goods is perhaps the most telling sign of high consumer confidence. 

 RICHARD JAFFE, RETAIL ANALYST, PAINEWEBBER: I think the consumer is going to remain very, very robust in the first half of the year, perhaps slowing somewhat should interest rates increase dramatically. I think the consumer is out there buying aggressively in January, and that`s going to continue through spring. 

 LISOVICZ (on camera): When retailer`s fourth-quarter profits come out, Tiffany (URL: http://www.tiffany.com/) is already projecting earnings of at least 20 percent. And some analysts say because retailers weren`t forced to do pre-holiday markdowns, Tiffany won`t be alone. 

 Susan Lisovicz, CNN financial news, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: Despite today`s good news, retail stocks were mixed in today`s mixed market. Wal*Mart (URL: http://www.wal-mart.com/) up nearly one, Neiman Marcus (URL: http://www.neimanmarcus.com) up 1 1/2, Saks (URL: http://www.proffitts.com/) up fractionally, The Gap (URL: http://www.gap.com/) jumped nearly 4 3/4. But even though Tiffany (URL: http://www.tiffany.com/) reported explosive sales, that stock fell 3 1/4. 

 And there were some losers this holiday season. Sales at  AnnTaylor (URL: N/A) were up less than one percent. That stock slumped 6 1/4. Williams-Sonoma (URL: http://www.williams-sonoma.com/) had lower-than-expected sales, its shares down 8 1/2. And Urban Outfitters (URL: N/A) said sales actually fell three percent. The stock plunged $9. 

 VARNEY: The question now is whether all that consumer spending will help suggest to the Federal Reserve that they raise key interest rates once again. That is the subject of tonight`s MONEYLINE focus. 

 Joining us now to talk about the Fed`s next move, Merrill Lynch`s chief economist, Bruce Steinberg. 

 Bruce, welcome back. 

 BRUCE STEINBERG, MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks, Stuart. 

 VARNEY: There seems to be true euphoria out there, and consumer spending is really vigorous. Now, what does that tell you about the economy going forward? 

 STEINBERG: The economy is going gangbusters. It is still very strong, and the problem here is that it is a lot stronger than the Fed could live with at the moment. 

 BAY: Tomorrow, everybody -- market and the Fed -- will be looking closely at that labor report. What do you expect we`ll see there? 

 STEINBERG: It`s going... 

 BAY: Signs of inflation? 

 STEINBERG: I don`t think we`re going to see signs of inflation, but we`re going to see signs that are going to worry the markets. I believe we are going to see the unemployment rate probably slip another notch, to four percent. And I think the Fed is very focused on that, the markets aren`t going to like that. I don`t think that hourly wages are going to get out of control in tomorrow`s report, I actually think they will only go up maybe 3/10 of a percent. 

 The problem with tomorrow`s report for the markets is that even the kind of report that I am talking about would be talking, but something that was bigger than that -- and the risk is that it is bigger than that -- would be very negative. 

 BAY: The most important of those indicators, though, to look -- to consider tomorrow, is... 

 STEINBERG: Whichever one deviates most from expectations is the most important part of that report. 

 VARNEY: The way you are talking, Bruce, suggests that the Federal Reserve is going to raise rates at its next meeting, and maybe more after that? 

 STEINBERG: Well, I think it`s a pretty foregone conclusion that the Fed will tighten in February, and the markets are actually expecting a second tightening in March. There is something like, if you look at Fed fund futures, a 90 percent probability of two tightenings by the end of the first quarter, that are priced in right now. 

 BAY: You think that`s likely? 

 STEINBERG: I think that is going to happen, yes. 

 VARNEY: Now, supposing there is a further sell-off in the tech stocks, and you have got a lot of money moving out and being lost in the stock market. Do you think that sort of negative-wealth effect will affect the pace of economic growth, and maybe do the Fed`s job for it? Is that possible? 

 STEINBERG: I think the Fed wouldn`t mind seeing the financial markets remain very nervous. But, you know, even with this correction we have had in the Nasdaq this week, you know, if you look at it over the last several months, there are huge gains that a lot of people have -- still enjoying in terms of where that index has gone, and where the stocks have gone. 

 So what the Fed would like -- and I think after tomorrow`s report people start talking, well, maybe they`ll tighten 50 basis points in February. Probably they won`t, because I think they want to keep the markets on edge. Both the bond market and the equity market I think they would rather see on edge in order to help them slow down the economy. 

 VARNEY: Rates up no matter what? 

 STEINBERG: Rates up no matter what. 

 BAY: Bruce Steinberg, thanks for joining us tonight. 

 Coming up on MONEYLINE, a banner quarter for Lehman Brothers (URL: http://www.lehman.com/) . The investment bank says fourth-quarter profits jumped 300 percent. 

 VARNEY: Plus, Sony`s president talks, and his stock sinks. Why he`s calling Sony shares overvalued, when MONEYLINE returns. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Let`s bring you up-to-date with what is happening with Lucent. This is a major development, and will probably have a significant impact on the stock market tomorrow. Lucent today offered up its first-ever profit warning. It said it will be disappointing its first quarter. Result: Lucent stock has truly plunged in after-hours trading. Currently that stock is down some 18 points, back to 50 3/4, that`s in after-hours trading. 

 And that stock-price movement in Lucent is affecting other related issues in the same industry: Nortel, Motorola, Cisco, Sun Microsystems, and Nokia -- all of them are down very sharply in after-hours trading. That is the Lucent effect. 

 BAY: Sony stock also took a beating today, and all because of the company`s president. Nobuyuki Idei suggested that the shares were overvalued, and that current prices might constitute a bubble. That was enough to convince investors. Here in New York, Sony shares plummeted more than $32. 

 VARNEY: In tonight`s other movers: MCI WorldCom down more than four, Salomon Smith Barney lowered this year and next year`s earnings estimates to reflect a more conservative position. But it also remains bullish on the company`s stock, and called it dirt cheap. 

 British Telecom (URL: http://www.bt.com/) sank 23 5/8. It said its global communications venture with AT&T will now generate $7 billion in revenue this year --that`s down $3 billion from initial estimates. 

 Columbia/HCA (URL: http://www.columbia.net/) up 1 1/2 on positive industry comments from ING Barings. It cited an improved outlook for managed care pricing and a positive upcoming earnings season. The Cobalt (URL: http://www.cobaltgroup.com/) Group soared 13 5/8. The automotive services firm will launch a B2B online marketplace for car parts  and information. Motorplace.com expected to roll out at the end of the month. 

 BAY: The fourth quarter was one for the record books at Lehman Brothers, thanks to record M&A activity and the bull market. The investment said its quarterly earnings quadrupled and beat estimates by 31 cents a share. Profits jumped to $301 million as growth in trading and investment banking revenue pushed Net revenue up 112 percent. Today, shares of Lehman Brothers jumped 2 7/8. 

 VARNEY: In tonight`s other headlines, the SEC said a major accounting giant violated its independence rules. An SEC report claims that almost half the partners at PricewaterhouseCoopers <http://www.pwcglobal.com/> self- reported at least one independence violation. That breaches an SEC rule which requires auditors to have no undisclosed ties to the companies they review. 

 More than a million computer users unable to send or receive e- mail for about two hours today. MindSpring (URL: http://www.mindspring.com/) Enterprises blamed equipment failure for the glitch, but the Internet service provider said it did not result from the Y2K bug. MindSpring ended the day down more than a point and a quarter. 

 BAY: Another strong day for one sector. Oil stocks jumped higher on positive comments from PaineWebber. It advised investors to buy oil stocks as both an offensive measure to capture what it believes are good values, and also a defensive move in the event other sectors head south. Today, those companies continued to rally. Exxon Mobil (URL: http://www.exxon.com/) , Chevron (URL: http://www.chevron.com/) and Texaco (URL: http://www.texaco.com/) , all up sharply. Atlantic Richfield (URL: http://www.arco.com/) gained two. 

 VARNEY: Still to come on MONEYLINE, a Wall Street star charged with taking millions in alleged kickbacks. 

 BAY: We`ll tell you about the accusations against Alan Bond and his response after the break. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: A top money manager in federal court today. 

 Allan Dodds Frank has the story on Alan Bond. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 ALLAN DODDS FRANK, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Alan Bond said little in court, except not guilty. The Harvard Business School graduate was arraigned after being charged with fraud and conspiracy by the U.S. attorney in an 11-count indictment unsealed last month. Bond is accused of taking nearly $7 million in kickbacks from brokers handling his company`s accounts. 

 Before the indictment, he had been a regular guest on CNNfn and other business shows, including "Wall Street Week." 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP, "WALL STREET WEEK WITH LOUIS RUKEYSER") 

 LOUIS RUKEYSER, "WALL STREET WEEK": Alan is my friend, and he has served our viewers well. Pending resolution of these problems however, he has agreed that it would be inappropriate for him to appear on "Wall Street Week With Louis Rukeyser," either as an elf (ph) or as a panelist. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 FRANK: The Securities and Exchange Commission has also filed a civil suit, claiming Bond and broker Robert Spruill defrauded Bond`s clients by charging extra for over-the-counter stock trades and pocketing the money. 

 Among Bond`s clients, the NBA Player`s Association and the union representing Washington D.C.`s subway and bus workers. That union, Local 689, had more than $200 million invested with Bond. 

 THEODORE WELLS JR., ATTORNEY FOR ALAN BOND: I think the case is outrageous. The evidence will show that in 1999, his clients got a return of approximately 35 percent. They beat the S&P average. Nobody was hurt. Nobody was defrauded. And I think the evidence will show that he has done nothing wrong. 

 FRANK: The kickbacks allegedly fueled Bond`s lavish lifestyle. He had a condominium and a house in Florida, a home in upper Montclair, New Jersey, and 75 automobiles. His American Express (URL: http://www.americanexpress.com/) bill sometimes totaled hundreds of thousands a month and funded shopping spree sprees at Bloomingdale`s, Saks and Tiffanys, according to the SEC. 

 (on camera): No trial date has been set yet, and Bond`s lawyer says he will demand a jury trial. Since the government deemed him not a  risk to flee, he was let go after posting a $1 million guarantee that he will appear in court. 

 Allan Dodds Frank, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: Up next, "Ahead of the Curve"... 

 VARNEY: ... some of what you need to know tonight before the markets open tomorrow. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Tomorrow could be another volatile session. As we mentioned, Lucent Technologies sank more than $18 in after-hours trading. Late today, the telecom equipment maker warned it will miss first-quarter profit estimates. 

 On top of that, investors will have the latest employment figures to digest. Economists expect non-farm payrolls to drop to 224,000. 

 That is MONEYLINE for this Thursday. I`m Willow Bay. 

 VARNEY: And I`m Stuart Varney. 

 Thanks for joining us. Good night from New York. 

 "CROSSFIRE" is next. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by  Federal Document Clearing House, Inc. 

 No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use  and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or  other proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license  from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material.  This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document mnyl000020010808dw160005o




 AHL Services'  Profit Warning  Prompts Ratings Cuts, Tumble In Shares 

500 words
6 January 2000
20:46
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Shares of AHL Services Inc. fell sharply Thursday and analysts at First Union Securities Inc. and C.E. Unterberg, Towbin cut their ratings and earnings estimates, citing the business outsourcing company's earnings warnings for the fourth quarter, 1999 and 2000. 

 Shares of AHL Services (AHLS) skidded $6.50, or 32%, to $13.75. 

 Late Wednesday, AHL Services said it estimates fourth-quarter earnings of 28 cents to 30 cents a share, and said its full-year earnings will be about $1.23 to $1.25 a share in 1999, and $1.55 to $1.58 a share in 2000. 

 The mean estimates of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial call for net income of 43 cents a share for the fourth quarter, $1.39 a share for 1999 and $1.76 a share for 2000. 

 The Atlanta-based company said the projected weaker fourth-quarter results reflect a higher effective tax rate, higher interest expense and costs related to the launch of E-fulfillment.com, a business that warehouses, packs and ships products for companies that sell goods over the Internet. 

 C.E. Unterberg's Jesse Pichel cut his 1999 estimate from $1.39 to $1.24 a share, and lowered his 2000 estimate from $1.75 to $1.55. He downgraded the stock to "buy" from "strong buy," and has a price target of $28. 

 First Union's Mark Marcon cut his fourth-quarter 1999 estimate to 28 cents from 43 cents, reduced his 2000 estimate to $1.55 from $1.77 and lowered his rating on the company's shares to "hold" from "strong buy." 

 The E-fulfillment launch accelerated "sooner than expected. We probably should have seen it coming," said Pichel. "E-fulfillment is definitely exploding," he noted. 

 First Union's Marcon concurred, writing in his research report: "We note that these investments are beginning to pay off with the E-fulfillment unit now generating $14 million in revenue on an annualized basis. Given the tremendous growth potential in the E-fulfillment area, we believe these are wise investments." 

 Marcon also expressed concern over "the continuing saga with unionization efforts" at Los Angeles International Airport, and an investigation by the U.S. Attorney in Philadelphia into past recruiting and training practices. 

 Neither analyst seemed worried about the company's long-term prospects. 

 "The shortfall represents the first quarterly miss in the company's history. Previously, the company had posted an impressive string of 11 straight quarters beating expectations," wrote Marcon. 

 AHL Services Chief Executive David Gamsey was upbeat. "If you look at our 1999 results they're phenomenally strong and they demonstrate a lot of growth. If you look at 2000 estimates the same can be said for that," he said. 

 According to Gamsey, the outsourcing company realized it would have a shortfall "over the New Year's holiday period." 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dw1600z9r




 RESEARCH ALERT-ING cuts Baan EPS estimates. 

136 words
5 January 2000
08:54
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 AMSTERDAM, Jan 5 (Reuters) - ING Barings said on Wednesday it cut earnings per share (EPS) estimates on Baan after the Dutch business software company on Tuesday gave a profit warning and announced the resignation of its chief executive officer. 

 ING, maintaining its "hold" recommendation on Baan, lowered EPS to minus 1.28 euros in 1999 from minus 0.26 euros (excluding Baan's restructuring charge of $200 million) and lowered EPS in 2000 to minus 0.15 euros from 0.02 euros. 

 It cut EPS to 0.01 euros in 2001 from 0.15 euros earlier and to 0.14 euros in 2002 from 0.36 euros. 

 ((Amsterdam newsroom +31 20 504 5000, Fax +31 20 504 5040, amsterdam.newsroom@reuters.com)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw150826r




 FOCUS-BMC Software shares hit by  profit warning . 

597 words
5 January 2000
20:23
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 HOUSTON, Jan 5 (Reuters) - Business software maker BMC Software Inc. said on Wednesday its earnings for the fiscal third quarter would fall well short of Wall Street expectations, touching off a sharp sell-off in its stock. 

 The Houston-based company said the shortfall was mainly due to disappointing revenues from software license sales in North America where a customary surge in large orders during the final weeks of the quarter failed to materialise. 

 "We did not see our customers willing to execute very large transactions in December. We cannot determine at this point whether this trend will continue in coming quarters," Chairman and CEO Max Watson said in a conference call with analysts. 

 BMC said it expects third-quarter earnings of $100-$110 million, or 40 to 44 cents per diluted share. Analysts had expected 53 cents a share for the quarter, ended Dec. 31. 

 That would represent a flat or lower year-over-year performance compared with the third quarter of fiscal 1999 when BMC reported net income of $110 million or 44 cents a share. 

 The warning sparked a wave of selling in BMC's stock, which tumbled $27, or some 35 percent, to $50 on the Nasdaq market, a level last seen in July 1999. 

 Investment bank Merrill Lynch cut its near-term rating for BMC's stock to neutral from buy while Deutsche Bank Alex. Brown lowered its rating to buy from strong buy. 

 BMC supplies software designed to ensure that companies' most important information systems stay up and running permanently. 

 It was the second consecutive quarter that BMC has issued a profit warning to investors. 

 The company's stock fell sharply in October after BMC warned that soft European sales would hurt earnings, but the shares staged a strong recovery after reported results for the second quarter came in above the range indicated by BMC. 

 Dain Rauscher Wessels analyst Sarah Mattson said the company had a "great set of products" and had made some shrewd acquisitions in recent years but would need longer this time to restore confidence in the company. 

 "Obviously there are some major execution issues here that they have to resolve. Regaining investor confidence is going to take time," she said. 

 But Mattson said she was inclined to keep her buy rating on BMC's stock, because it appeared relatively cheap to its peers after such a steep fall. 

 ABN AMRO analyst Robert Johnson said he did not plan to lower his outperform rating for BMC which he lowered from buy in early December after its earnings-per-share multiple got well above the company's projected long-term growth rate of 25 percent. 

 Johnson said he was disappointed by the lack of detail provided by BMC during the brief conference call on Wednesday at which analysts were not allowed to ask questions. 

 BMC chairman Watson said customers might have been too busy with the Year 2000 rollover to place orders in December but added that the company would not be able to provide more detailed information until it reports third-quarter earnings on Jan. 25. 

 BMC estimates that its third-quarter revenues will amount to $420-$430 million, compared with $344 million a year earlier. 

 It expects that license revenues will rise by about 20 percent in both North America and the rest of the world to a total of $285-293 million, while maintenance and service revenues will rise by about 31 percent to $135-137 million. 

 ((Houston bureau +1 713 210 8508)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw1507z0h


 Business 
 MONEYLINE; Co - CEO 

 Stuart Varney, Willow Bay, Rhonda Schaffler, Charles Molineaux, Bill Dorman, Kelli Arena, Susan Lisovicz, Fred Katayama, Peter Viles, Bruce Francis, Steve Young 
8,535 words
5 January 2000
23:30
CNNfn: Moneyline News Hour
MNYL
English
 (c) Copyright Federal Document Clearing House. All Rights Reserved. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Sold 10,000. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 STUART VARNEY, CNNfn ANCHOR, MONEYLINE:  2000 is starting off as a wild year indeed. The Nasdaq plunges, then recovers, while the Dow jumps. And that was before a major profit warning hit the street. 

 WILLOW BAY, CNNfn ANCHOR, MONEYLINE:  The Year 2000 hasn`t been good to Amazon.com (URL: http://www.amazon.com/) either. The stock has lost nearly $7 billion in market value and now Amazon says it is no closer to profitability. 

 VARNEY: It`s the announcement heard around the Mac world. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 STEVE JOBS, CEO, APPLE: I`m pleased to announce today that I`m going to drop the interim title. 

 (APPLAUSE) 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 VARNEY: Steve Jobs tells the Apple (URL: http://www.apple.com/) faithful he`s here to stay. We`ll ask him what took so long. 

 BAY: And from millionaire playboys to multibillion-dollar corporations, the new face of the America`s Cup: a MONEYLINE special report. 

 ANNOUNCER: This is the MONEYLINE NEWS HOUR. Reporting tonight from New York, Willow Bay and Stuart Varney. 

 VARNEY: Good evening, everyone. Welcome to MONEYLINE. 

 Only three trading days in 2000... 

 BAY: ... and already investors are suffering whiplash. After the Dow and Nasdaq yesterday had the worst sell-off in more than a year, some confidence returned to Wall Street. But that could change tomorrow with tonight`s chilling after-the-bell warning from a computer maker. 

 Rhonda Schaffler has more from the New York Stock Exchange -- Rhonda. 

 RHONDA SCHAFFLER, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Willow, the after-hours market is dishing out some disappointment with Gateway (URL: http://www.gateway.com/) . In a conference call with analysts, the personal computer company said it will miss fourth-quarter earnings estimates by about seven cents a share, ending with  37 cents for the period. In after-hours trading, Gateway stock is currently down 4 1/4. 

 But elsewhere on the New York Stock Exchange, most shares moved higher today, elevated by investors making the best of a possible buying opportunity. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 SCHAFFLER (voice-over): Still nursing bruises after a punishing session, investors came back with a mission to buy on the big board. 

 While the tech sector sparked and sputtered, bargain hunters went searching for big-name blue chips. 

 LISA CULLEN, MERRILL LYNCH: Some of the positive activity in the Dow is probably stemming from what looked like a buying opportunity with the big drop that we had yesterday, and also the fact that there is some unloading going on in the tech sector. 

 SCHAFFLER: After a rough-and-tumble open, the Dow Jones industrial average marched higher, ultimately advancing more than 124 points to finish at  11,122. Leading the way, some building blocks of old-fashioned American industry: oil giant Exxon Mobil (URL: http://www.exxon.com/) , aluminum supplier ALCOA (URL: http://www.alcoa.com/) , IBM (URL: http://www.ibm.com/) , chemical maker DuPont (URL: http://www.dupont.com/) , and mining leader 3M (URL: http://www.mmm.com/) . 

 While today`s gain is less than half of what the Dow lost the day before, some prominent skeptics warn even reliable blue chips face rising pressures from rising interest rates. 

 BYRON WEIN, MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER: I think the market has been oblivious to the fact that interest rates went up from 5.1 percent at the beginning of last year to 6.40 at the end of 1999, and they`ve gone up further since then. I think interest rates are a problem. There is a linkage between stocks and bonds. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 SCHAFFLER: That linkage will be tested on Friday with the release of December`s payroll numbers. But even if the report shows no signs of inflation, some analysts warn that economies heating up overseas could ultimately force interest rates higher -- Willow. 

 BAY: Thank you, Rhonda Schaffler, from the big board. 

 VARNEY: It was a close call today for the Nasdaq: nail-biting time. At its low, the index was down more than 160 points, which put the Nasdaq down nearly 10 percent from its high. On Wall Street, that`s called a correction. But then the Nasdaq recovered with just a small loss at the close. 

 Charles Molineaux is standing by live at the Nasdaq-AMEX market site. He joins us now with more on this -- Charles. 

 CHARLES MOLINEAUX, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Stuart, only a day like yesterday followed by morning like today`s could make a loss of 24 points by the Nasdaq a relief. But this was a hair-raising, volatile session. 

 At the market open this morning, the Nasdaq composite was already 50 points below yesterday`s close and it just kept falling: 167 points before it recovered slightly. Traded in narrow range most of the day; rallied late, all the way up to a gain of 23 points, then slipped  back to close at 3,877. 

 Intense volume: 1.7 billion shares made this the second-most heavily traded day in Nasdaq history. Internet stocks fell 4 percent after bearish comments from the industry`s poster child, Amazon.com, about its  continuing losses. Amazon sank by 15 percent. The traditional big caps did better: Dell and Microsoft both rallied on positive comments from analysts. And biotech stocks -- the Nasdaq recent star performers, then the most badly bruised yesterday -- rebounded almost 2 1/2 percent. Genzyme (URL: http://www.genzyme.com/) picked up six. Strategists say the market`s a whirlpool of cross-currents. The tug-of-war continues between bears and bargain hunters as investors still want to buy on the tech growth  story. On the dips, the falling Internets seem to be delinking from the traditional techs, which in turn may be relinking with the weak bond market. And there`s also the inflow of liquidity from 401(k). Fourth-quarter earnings reports are expected to be bullish, Gateway not withstanding. And this Friday, we get that unemployment report -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: Well-said. Charles Molineaux at the Nasdaq market site. 

 Now, Wall Street might have recovered, but it came too late for most overseas markets. Fears of an interest rate hike in the U.S. hit home for Hong Kong investors big time. Stocks there suffered their biggest point drop since the Asian currency crisis more than two years ago. 

 The Hang Seng index down more than 1,200 points. That`s better than 7 percent. 

 South Korea stocks had a record point drop: down 72 points. That`s nearly 7 percent as well. 

 Japan`s Nikkei fell almost 2 1/2 percent. 

 The selling was not as dramatic in Europe, however. London, down nearly 2 percent. Stocks in Germany about 1 percent lower. France was down more than 3 percent. But Latin American markets caught up with today`s rebound in the U.S. Mexico and Argentina, up more than 1 percent. Brazil gained more than 2 percent. 

 BAY: If overseas investors are worried about higher U.S. interest rates, today`s slump in the bond market probably didn`t help. Bond prices continue to move in the opposite direction of stocks. The 30-year Treasury down 1 2/32. The yield at 6.61 percent. Watching a --reaching a near 2 1/2 year high. At this time last year, the yield was hovering around 5 percent, a full 1 1/2 percentage points lower. 

 Meanwhile, money flooded into the dollar. The greenback jumped nearly one yen against the Japanese yen/ 

 VARNEY: The economy showed no signs of slowing at the tail end of the millennium. One sector that has lagged, manufacturing, staged a strong rebound in November. Factory orders jumped 1.2 percent. That was fueled by  strong demand for electronics. 

 That, by the way, was the first increase since August. 

 BAY: This seemingly endless economic boom led to the auto industry`s best year ever. Both General Motors and Ford reported strong sales for December and record sales for 1999. But with interest rates on the rise, prospects for the new year are less than certain. 

 Bill Dorman reports. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 BILL DORMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): As work crews set up the Los Angeles Auto Show, car makers, dealers and analysts are divided about what the new year will bring. At Major Chevrolet in New York, customers are packing the finance department. Browsers strolling the lot are eager to make deals and to explore their options: buy or lease, new or used. 

 (on camera): What`s happening at this New York auto dealer is happening at car lots across the country. 1999 set new records for sales of both new and  used cars. And the new year? That`s not looking too shabby either. 

 (voice-over): The boss is sounding optimistic. 

 BRUCE BENDELL, PRESIDENT, MAJOR AUTOMOTIVE GROUP: We`ve got all the green signals out there in terms of the interest rates are still affordable  and manufacturers are still coming up with programs. So I really think that we`re still going to have a strong, you know, 2000. 

 DORMAN: Others are not so certain. 

 EFRAIM LEVY, ANALYST, STANDARD & POOR`S: If the Fed raises rates, if interest rates go more, if there`s a glitch in the stock market, then people won`t feel quite as wealthy. 

 DORMAN: For the year, General Motors (URL: http://www.gm.com) vehicle sales rose nearly 9 percent to nearly 5 million. Ford, up nearly 6 percent to 4.6 million. DaimlerChrysler (URL: http://www.daimlerchrysler.com) , up more than 5 percent, topping 2.6 million. 

 Three of the five most popular car models made by Japanese auto makers. The Toyota (URL: http://www.honda.co.jp/) Accord, the Ford (URL: http://www.ford.com/) Taurus, the Honda Civic, and the Chevrolet Cavalier. 

 Another familiar trend, trucks and sport-utility vehicles are selling faster than cars. 

 One key to continued strong sales in 2000: continuing dealer incentives, from cash back to special financing. 

 Bill Dorman, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: Topping the "MONEYLINE News Digest" tonight: a decision from Washington in the dispute over Elian Gonzalez. The Immigration and Naturalization Service says it`s time to send the youngster home to Cuba. 

 (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) 

 DORIS MEISSNER, COMMISSIONER, INS: This little boy, who has been through so much, belongs with his father. We urge everyone involved to understand, respect, and uphold the bond between parent and child and the laws of the United States. 

 (END VIDEO CLIP) 

 VARNEY: Lawyers for Elian`s relatives in Miami say they`ll appeal plans to return the boy who survived a failed bid to sail to the U.S. 

 Just outside Washington, Israel and Syria are holding their first substantive peace talks in nearly four years: that after the two sides settled a dispute over which issues to discuss in which order. President Clinton is said to be keeping an eye on those talks as he leaves to join the first lady for their first night in their new suburban New York home. The president will head back to the White House tomorrow while Hillary Rodham Clinton stays on to establish residency for  her Senate run. 

 And here`s what`s next on MONEYLINE: a dot.com darling learns firsthand how fickle Wall Street can be. We`ll talk to the CEO of FreeMarkets (URL: http://www.freemarkets.com/) about the stock`s free fall. 

 BAY: Plus, it`s the oldest trophy in international sports with thoroughly modern technology. Tonight, a MONEYLINE special report on the America`s Cup. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Another free fall for FreeMarkets, its stock battered for the second straight day. This, after General Motors canceled its pact with the  company and shifted to its own business-to-business auction site. FreeMarkets fell $38 1/2 today, and is off nearly 20 percent since GM`s announcement yesterday. But since its IPO last month, FreeMarkets is still up fivefold. Joining us now with a look at his company`s future, Glen Meakem, chairman, president, and CEO of FreeMarkets. He joins us from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. 

 Glen, welcome. 

 GLEN MEAKEM, CEO, FREEMARKETS: Thank you very much. 

 BAY: How significant a loss to you is GM`s business? 

 MEAKEM: Well, as we announced yesterday, GM was only 10 percent of our revenue in the fourth quarter, and that was a decline, a steep decline, from higher levels earlier in the year. So our business is growing very, very fast, and the growth rate in our business is overwhelming the loss of this one client. 

 BAY: So really... 

 MEAKEM: We do not see it as material for next year. 

 BAY: Not material even though they are your second-biggest client? 

 MEAKEM: Yes. We`ve added so many clients. We have added clients like Eaton Corporation, and Emerson Electric, and Honeywell International and many others. And so the rate of growth in our business is such that this does not negatively impact our financials for 2000. 

 BAY: When did you get the sense that you may lose GM as a customer? 

 MEAKEM: Well, when we heard that Commerce One (URL: http://www.commerceone.com/) had basically done this deal with GM to create the GM trade exchange, we were concerned, but we had just signed a contract, a new long-term contract, with GM in October. So -- just only weeks before the Commerce One announcement. 

 So we have been creating great results for GM, a lot of savings over the last two and a half years since we started serving them in 1997. So we felt pretty secure in our relationship with GM. 

 BAY: So you had - you did have a new contract with them, but then this -- the announcement essentially came as a surprise. Because as you know, there is some concern on the part of analysts that if you had an inkling of this before your IPO, it would have been in your shareholders` best interest to let them know that. 

 MEAKEM: Right, and that just not true. We fully disclosed the risk in our S-1 during the IPO process, so it was out there for all investors to see. And we just found out Monday that GM was going to cancel our contract, and we announced it as soon as we heard it on Monday morning -- excuse me, Tuesday morning, yesterday morning. 

 BAY: Right. Your stock, as we mentioned, while it`s been down the past couple of days, has soared fivefold since your IPO. What does the market believe in? How big is this business-to-business on-line auction venture that you are headed into? 

 MEAKEM: Well, even in the earlier segment people are talking about, you know, how can we have so much growth in the economy and no inflation? Well, when you hear about our business, you know, we are creating -- we are transforming the way industrial markets work. We`re helping buyers save money on the equipment, the direct material, the stuff like this piston that goes into a large air-conditioning unit, or this printed circuit board that goes into an elevator. We are helping buyers save money on these direct materials that go into industrial parts. 

 This is a $5 trillion market for all of the customized direct materials and components that go into refrigerators, and televisions, and cars. And we are helping buyers get more -- create more efficient markets back into the supply chain. So we`re holding prices down, we are holding wholesale prices down, and we are helping buyers save a lot of money. That`s a transformational idea. 

 BAY: Glen Meakem, you will be selling a lot of pistons, then. Thank you for joining us. 

 MEAKEM: Thank you very much. 

 VARNEY: All right, coming up: The safety of those working at home will not be the company`s responsibility after all, at least not yet. 

 BAY: We will check out what made the Labor Department do an about face. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Another sign that Y2K worries are apparently behind us: The Securities and Exchange Commission says it will stop its special monitoring for year 2000 problems. Brokerage houses and mutual fund companies will still have to report any glitches, but the SEC is calling off its round-the-clock coverage. 

 VARNEY: Another federal regulator making the news. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration, OSHA, today withdrew its controversial advisory indicating that companies must ensure the safety of home offices. 

 Kelli Arena reports from Washington. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 KELLI ARENA, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Labor secretary Alexis Herman did some serious backtracking, saying the government needs to examine further the changing nature of the workplace, and called for a national dialogue with business and labor leaders. 

 ALEXIS HERMAN, LABOR SECRETARY: We have laws in this country that say that employers are responsible for ensuring workplaces that are healthy and safe. What we don`t have are new-policy guidance. We don`t have new direction for this new work force of the future. 

 ARENA: The controversy was caused by a letter from officials at the department`s Occupational Safety and Health Administration to an employer offering guidance on moving workers into home offices. Such interpretation letters carry weight in court, and businesses look to them for general guidance. 

 Despite the letter`s withdrawal, business groups say the issue remains murky. 

 PATRICK CLEARY, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS: Until they come out and clearly state that the employer`s obligation ends at the doorstep of a person`s home, I think no employer really will be able to rest easy. 

 ARENA: And labor lawyers say liability issues remain. For example, if an employer provides equipment for at-home use, or if an employee is required to work at home. 

 For voluntary at-home workers, the rules are a bit different. 

 ARTHUR SAPPER, MCDERMOTT, WILL & EMERY: The advice is hand the employee a pamphlet describing common hazards at home, inform the employee -- tell the employee that if he has any questions, he should ask the company safety officer. But at this point, at least until the dust has settled more, I would not intrude into the employees` home. 

 ARENA (on camera): It took OSHA nearly two years to respond to the original request for guidance, resulting in the letter that caused all the fuss. Businesses hope this next phase does not take quite as long. 

 Kelli Arena, CNN financial news, Washington. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: Still ahead on MONEYLINE, the tech expertise pushing world- class yachting to new limits. 

 VARNEY: In a MONEYLINE special report, we`ll tell you about the breakthroughs and the budgets driving the America`s Cup. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 ARENA: It took OSHA nearly two years to respond to the original request for guidance, resulting in the letter that caused all the fuss. Businesses hope this next phase does not take quite as long. 

 Kelli Arena, CNN Financial News, Washington. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: Still ahead on MONEYLINE: the tech expertise pushing world class yachting to new limits. 

 VARNEY: In a MONEYLINE special report, we`ll tell you about the breakthroughs and the budgets driving the America`s Cup 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: An accident today highlighting the marriage of high tech and high risk behind the America`s Cup. The Prada team`s yacht snapped its carbon fiber mast. It`s the third such break of various boats in this year`s competition off New Zealand. 

 As Susan Lisovicz explains in this MONEYLINE special report, top technology and big money are playing a growing role in the contest. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 SUSAN LISOVICZ, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Cutting through the water like the shark emblazoned on its hull, young America devoured its competitors, winning 10 of its first 12 races in the Challenger Series of the America`s Cup. Until this. 

 UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It`s a sickening sight to see a boat broken in half. 

 LISOVICZ: The $4 million boat, part of the New York Yacht Club`s $40 million campaign, cracked open without warning and nearly sank, skipper Ed Baird among those forced to jump overboard. 

 ED BAIRD, SKIPPER, YOUNG AMERICA: All of these boats in some way are very close to the limits. And the difficulty comes in knowing when your boat is close and when it isn`t. 

 LISOVICZ: Testing the limits of technology has become as integral to America`s Cup as wind and water. And that`s increasing the significance of corporate sponsorship. The main sail of AmericaOne, the San Francisco yacht club`s $32 million effort, bears the corporate logos of its six top tech sponsors. Some, like Ford and Visteon, use it as a platform to showcase their services. Hewlett- Packard says it reinforces brand image. 

 Still others see a natural relationship between America`s Cup and their own customer base. 

 Skipper Paul Cayard says these days, it`s technology, not just testosterone, that wins races. 

 PAUL CAYARD, SKIPPER, AMERICAONE: These boats right now are going about close to 4 percent faster than we did in 1995, like three minutes around the race course. So on an hour and half race, they`re going three minutes faster. 

 LISOVICZ: Faster because of extensive and expensive tank testing of scale models, wind tunnels that simulate conditions on the water, and the latest  lightweight materials, like Kevlar and carbon fiber to pare every possible ounce of unneeded weight. (on camera): Since the first race began in 1851, America`s Cup has been of huge interest to business, which at that time, wanted to get its goods to port cheaper and more quickly. The technological developments that have been a hallmark of the race since then continue to have wide applications throughout industry. 

 (voice-over): Early cup contenders reduced weight with longitudinal framing, still the standard construction for super tankers and commercial jets. Defender, the first boat ever built of aluminum, won the cup in 1895. And the massive J-boats of the early 20th century introduced winches and telescoping masts, applicable to modern cranes. 

 UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is a great technology sport. Yes, you have to have a great crew, but if you have a slow boat, it could be next to impossible to win this race. 

 LISOVICZ: The cost of technology is a key reason corporate funding has almost completely replaced individual sponsorship. The Italian entry has a $50 million budget, underwritten by Italian luxury goods maker Prada, which put the cash up early to fund critical R&D. 

 FRANCESCO DE ANGELIS, SKIPPER, LUNA ROSSA: We could make plans for the two years, and especially, I mean, the fact that you have single sponsor makes the process of the decision making quicker. 

 LISOVICZ: But the risks of new technology can take a terrible toll. Some veterans say boat breakdowns are rising at an alarming rate, which also makes it risky for sponsors. 

 Yahoo! (URL: http://www.yahoo.com/) signed on with a seven-figure deal just a few races before Young America`s collapse. 

 MIKE KELLEY, BRAND MANAGER, YAHOO!: There`s an inherent risk involved with things that move, whether it be a sailboat or a race car, as well as with teams, that they won`t succeed. 

 LISOVICZ: Young America did get back into the race. Brown and Sharpe`s laser measurements realigned the hull within half a millimeter of its original dimensions. 

 DAVID GENEST, BROWN & SHARPE: We were able to help put the boat back together in about three weeks, which is pretty unheard of, in fairly cruel situation. 

 LISOVICZ: But Young America, one of the best funded and fastest boats on water, never regained its momentum and failed to make it into the semifinals. And Stars and Stripes, an under funded and unlikely underdog, headed by three-time America`s Cup winner Dennis Connor, is a front-runner, proving that determination and skill still play a role in winning races, too. 

 Susan Lisovicz, CNN Financial News, Auckland, New Zealand. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: Not exactly a mass market sport, though, is it? 

 BAY: No, and with that technology investment required, you can understand why? 

 VARNEY: Not the sport of the people, there you have it. 

 BAY: Still to come on MONEYLINE: an after-the-bell shocker from Gateway. Investors bail out of the PC maker after it warns of a fourth-quarter profit shortfall. 

 VARNEY: Plus, Apple`s chief executive keeps his day job: Steve Jobs decides he`s no longer the interim CEO. We`ll talk live with the Apple co-founder, 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: The blue-chip bargain hunters were out in force today, turning yesterday`s rout into a triple-digit rally. Amazon`s fast-growing top line doing nothing for its bottom line. And investors are losing their patience. 

 It`s the commitment the Mac faithful have hoped for: Steve Jobs is staying on as Apple`s CEO. And he`s our guest. 

 BAY: First, our top story: an after-hours bombshell from a big- name PC maker. Gateway warned that its profits will fall far short of analysts` estimates for the latest quarter. 

 Investors hammered the stock in after-hours trading. 

 Fred Katayama has more. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 FRED KATAYAMA, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Analysts say Gateway`s surprise announcement after the markets closed today could pummel its stock tomorrow. 

 The second-largest direct seller of computers said its fourth-quarter earnings will fall short of analysts` estimates by seven cents a share. It now expects to earn 37 cents a share and sales will also miss targets. 

 Gateway CFO John Todd said: "Clearly, we`re disappointed in our sales performance. This is not an indicator of any long-lasting or systemic issues." 

 Gateway said the biggest culprit was a shortage of chips and parts from Intel for its low-end PCs, robbing it of $250 million in lost sales. 

 ART RUSSELL, ANALYST, EDWARD JONES: Prices held up in terms of average selling prices. Their profit margins held up, but they couldn`t get enough chips to meet all the demand from their customers. So in effect, they left some money on the table. 

 KATAYAMA: The shortage was specific to Gateway, because unlike others it solely relied on Intel for those parts. The company also blamed businesses for slowing down their purchases of computers due to fears over Y2K. It said sales to government, large companies and schools fell about a 15 percent in the quarter. 

 But analysts remain positive about the company`s prospects because they see these problems as one-time issues. 

 Gateway says strong demand for PCs will enable it to meet analysts` targets for the first quarter and the full year. The Internet continues to drive sales of computers to consumers and the launch of the Windows 2000 operating-system software in February should help boost demand further. 

 (on camera): But the earnings warning comes at a bad time for Gateway`s new CEO. This is Jeff Weitzen`s first week on the job. He pledged to take specific steps next week to ensure these supply problems do not crop up again. 

 Fred Katayama, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 BAY: And in after-hours trading, Gateway stock was down $4 1/4 after falling 11/16 in today`s regular session. 

 VARNEY: Even before that Gateway warning, volatility defined the  day on Wall Street, where a swift and staggering Nasdaq sell-off put the index well near correction territory. But in a stunning 142-point comeback, the Nasdaq finished only slightly lower. And the Dow did what it  does best after a one-day brutal sell-off: It bounced back, big time. 

 Peter Viles has the story. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 PETER VILES, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): On Nasdaq trading floors, the morning after was as ugly as the day before. By 10:30, the Nasdaq was in a freefall, off another 166 points and falling fast, and the market`s underpinnings were looking shaky. 

 RICK BERRY, CENTENNIAL CAPITAL MANAGEMENT: I have been following the stock market for, you know, close to 20 years, and you know, without doubt that this is the most speculative binge I have ever seen. 

 DAVID TICE, THE PRUDENT BEAR FUND: We believe a bear market is ahead. Trees do not grow to the sky. Markets do not go up forever. This market is more than 50 to 100 percent more overvalued than any market in history. 

 VILES: But then the buyers came back. The Nasdaq roared back to break even before closing with a loss of just 24 points. 

 JOSEPH BATTIPAGLIA, GRUNTAL & CO.: What I saw today was a very rational market. Investors see the landscape as positive. They know there`s a lot of liquidity around. They bought what they wanted to get into. 

 BUZZY GEDULD, PRESIDENT, HERZOG, HEINE, GEDULD: Until we get a catalyst or an event that`s going to change the psychology -- whether that`s substantially higher interest rates, God forbid a war, or something dramatic happens -- while the psychology remains in place, as it has for a long time, the market continues to go up. 

 VILES: This was a tale of two markets: the blue chips, shown here in blue, mirrored the Nasdaq`s every move, but they did it mostly in positive territory, as investors flocked to Dow stocks: IBM, Aloca, Exxon-Mobil, DuPont, and Merck. 

 For the day, the Dow gained 124 points, gaining back about one- third of Tuesday`s loss. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VILES: At its low today, the Nasdaq was almost 10 percent below its record high. That`s almost what market watchers call a correction. And corrections have been a regular occurrence within this bull market. 

 Last year, the Nasdaq went through two separate pullbacks of 10 percent or more. The year -- hard to remember -- but the year before, the Nasdaq once pulled back 25 percent -- Willow, Stuart. 

 VARNEY: What a day. Peter Viles reporting. Thanks very much -- Wils. 

 BAY: Taking a closer look now behind today`s turnaround: On the big board, winners beat losers by a nearly 3-to-2 margin; 29 stocks climbed to new 52-week highs, but four times -- 119 -- fell to new lows. 

 Internet stocks were among today`s big losers. American Online, CMGI, Yahoo!, and DoubleClick all falling sharply on the day. 

 VARNEY: And one of today`s biggest losers: Amazon.com. It lost more than 12 points -- that`s about 14 percent -- and that wiped out $4 billion from its market value. Investors are again losing their patience with the so-called "king of e-commerce." A big spike in holiday sales could not stem the company`s losses. 

 Bruce Francis reports. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 BRUCE FRANCIS, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): They sang. They sold. They lost. And while some on Wall Street had hoped that robust holiday sales for Amazon.com would offset massive spending on marketing, it won`t. Amazon said in a statement that "higher seasonal sales will not translate into lower net losses." And there will be higher-than- expected inventory charges and write-downs because of new businesses, like toys and electronics. 

 Amazon also said that it raked in more than $650 million in the fourth quarter, less than some analysts had predicted. But it bragged that 99 percent of its orders arrived on time and that it added 2 1/2 million new customers. 

 That wasn`t enough to appease investors. Wall Street was already expecting a hefty 48 cents per share loss from Amazon. And with today`s market setback, the stock has dwindled some 38 percent from its December high. Patience is wearing thin. 

 SCOTT EHRENS, BEAR STEARNS: Wall Street is definitely losing patience with Amazon`s increasing spending without the commensurate increase in revenue momentum. 

 FRANCIS: Fund manager Berkeley Belknap owns America Online (URL: http://www.aol.com/)  and CNET (URL: http://www.cnet.com/) , but is wary of Amazon, its mounting losses and its price. 

 BERKELEY BELKNAP, TRAINER, WORTHAM & CO.: The market is paying up a lot for the future value of this company when they haven`t reached profitability yet. And I just think that it`s a higher-risk situation. Amazon`s profits are still a couple of years off, and we`re talking about retail margins, so not nearly as high as many of the Internet companies that I would prefer to own. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 FRANCIS: And Scott Ehrens agrees, saying that the market will continue to favor Internet companies that sell without having to stock inventory, like AOL, eBay (URL: http://www.ebay.com/) and Yahoo!, especially now that inventory is clearly taking its toll on Amazon. 

 Amazon calls the shopping season a success for its customers and vows to continue to raise its standards this year -- Stuart. 

 VARNEY: All right, thank you, Bruce Francis. 

 And Amazon.com shareholders must be wondering, is it coincidence or a curse? Since "TIME" magazine named chief executive Jeff Bezos "Person of the Year" just two weeks ago, Amazon.com has lost more than 27 points, which is 28 percent. The post-cover story plunge has managed to wipe out almost $3 1/2 billion worth of Bezos` paper wealth. Beat that. 

 BAY: Up next, we`ll talk to one of the few bears left on Wall Street, Barton Biggs. But his views on the Nasdaq`s Y2K pullback might surprise you. 

 VARNEY: And profit warning No. 2 knocks down a high-flying software maker. We`ll have details when MONEYLINE continues in just a moment. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Strong demand for electronic components, like computer chips, fueled a big jump in factory orders. Orders jumped 1.2 percent in November, the first increase since this summer. Separately today, news that more autos were sold in the U.S. last year than ever before: 17 1/2 million, to be exact, beating a record set in 1986. 

 The strong factory orders did not help matters in the bond market, which was more focused on the stock rally today. The Treasury`s 30-year issue plunged more than a full point in price, wiping out all of yesterday`s rally. The yield tonight backing up to 6.61 percent. 

 VARNEY: There are some market watchers on Wall Street -- not many, but a few -- who have genuine clout. We`re joined now by one of them: Barton Biggs with Morgan Stanley. 

 Barton, welcome back. 

 BARTON BIGGS, MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER: Stuart, good to see you. 

 VARNEY: When you speak, people listen. So tell us your analysis of what`s going on in this market in the last couple of days. 

 BIGGS: Haven`t been listening recently. But anyway, I think what`s happening is I think that the big run-up late in the year was spectacular and people are reacting to it. So we`ve had a very sharp break. But we went back, and we looked at every bear market in this century, and no bear market has ever begun from where -- made a peak, and then had a sharp break from the peak of more than 5 percent in the first couple of days. So it would be unprecedented. 

 VARNEY: The break that we`ve had, if you can call it that, in the past couple of days is not the correction which you see coming at some point in the relatively near future, is it? 

 BIGGS: It`s not the bear market I see coming at some point. It -- and I suspect that we`ll go on to new highs from here. 

 VARNEY: Now I use the expression correction, but you corrected me and said bear market. You are forecasting a new bear market to begin at some point, correct? 

 BIGGS: Yes. 

 VARNEY: Timing. 

 BIGGS: Who knows. I mean, it could be fairly soon. I mean, forecasting stock markets makes forecasting the weather look like an exact science, so  it`s -- we will have no idea when it will begin. 

 VARNEY: But this spike upward, that`s the last leg before we fade; it`s the last leg up on the old bull market, is it? 

 BIGGS: The next spike up will be the last leg on the next -- on the -- on this old bull market. 

 VARNEY: And the problem is valuations of technology stocks? 

 BIGGS: Valuations of technology stocks in particular, and just the degree of speculation and excesses in the market. 

 VARNEY: What do you make of a company like Amazon.com? Revenues up, losses widen. What do you make of that? 

 BIGGS: Well, I think Amazon, surprisingly, could be the exception to the Internet rule, and in that Amazon is building such a powerful system that even though its losses are widening, its network is also exponentially increasing, and that`s a great value. So I think Amazon could even begin to be a reasonably attractive stock. 

 VARNEY: Would you say you`re a Net surfer? Do you do that? 

 BIGGS: A net surfer, yes. I`m a mild net surfer. 

 VARNEY: Have you ever bought anything online? 

 BIGGS: No, I`m sorry. 

 VARNEY: Me too. But I mean, people of our generation, if I can put it that way, do you think we understand the new economy? 

 BIGGS: I think that we`re trying to . 

 VARNEY: Not succeeding. 

 BIGGS: No, I mean I think I understand the new economy, and I understand the advantages of it and also the problems of it. 

 VARNEY: Do you think it`s real? Do you believe in it? 

 BIGGS: I think absolutely that it`s real. 

 VARNEY: You prefer to put your money overseas at this point, because that`s been your point some time now. 

 BIGGS: Yes. 

 VARNEY: Which markets? 

 BIGGS: Well, I think coming out of this, the Asian markets in particular. As you mentioned earlier in the program, Hong Kong got devastated last night, Singapore did, too, Korea -- I think markets like that are going to come back very, very strong. 

 VARNEY: Those are dips to buy, as opposed to the U.S. market? 

 BIGGS: Those are the dips to buy, yes. 

 VARNEY: Fair enough. Barton Biggs, we thank you very much for joining us. 

 BIGGS: Thank you, Stuart. 

 VARNEY: OK -- Willow. 

 BAY: Thanks, Stuart. Still to come on MONEYLINE, our exclusive interview with Apple`s Steve Jobs. Plus: one company`s warning drags down software shares on the Nasdaq. We`ll tell you about the news from BMC after the break. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Rough times in the Magic Kingdom, and Disney executives are feeling the pinch. We learned today that Walt Disney chairman Michael Eisner and some senior officials did not get a 1999 bonus, this after the stock sat out last year`s rally and the company failed to meet financial targets, in part, because of lower consumer products revenues. Eisner also unveiled several new strategies in a letter to shareholders --cutting costs, which will result in an annual $300 million savings in five years. Disney stock up more than a 1 1/4. 

 BAY: It was the most active stock on the Nasdaq today, and also one of its  worst performers. BMC Software sank after it issued a third- quarter profit warning. Its stock fell nearly 27 1/2 and weighed on other software makers as well. Computer Associates, Oracle and Compuware all moved lower today. 

 And as Steve Young reports, this wasn`t the first time BMC blindsided investors. 

 (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) 

 STEVE YOUNG, CNNfn CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): BMC (URL: http://www.bmc.com/) makes software that manages computer systems for other companies, but it`s having a hard time getting a handle on it`s own business affairs. The Houston company issued  a warning today that when it reports earnings late this month, they`ll be well short of what Wall Street expected. It blames weak sales in North America, does not say year 2000 issues were part of the trouble. In fact, on a conference call, left analysts in the dark about the exact nature of the problem. 

 MELISSA EISENSTAT, CIBC WORLD MARKETS: This was very, very short. The fact that they took no questions just a signal to me that there`s probably some issues that they`re working through and figuring out how they want to characterize to the Street. 

 YOUNG: Making matters worse, it`s BMC`s second earnings warning in a row. Last quarter, the company blamed weakened European sales, which it now says have perked up. BMC boasts of being the only profitable software company not run by a founder. And its CEO has been cited as one of the best in the country. Some analysts think the problem is indigestion, after two acquisitions last year. 

 PAUL DAVIS, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: It`s always challenging when one firm acquires another firm, and you have to work through product issues -- how does the sales force pursue the selling of broader product sets? YOUNG: BMC remains one of the three big players in its field, along with Computer Associates (URL: http://www.cai.com) and Tibily (ph), owned by IBM (URL: http://www.ibm.com/) . C.A. fell, while IBM scored some gains. 

 (on camera): BMC has been selling bigger orders to larger customers. Some analysts believe its expected 10 percent revenue shortfall is not because hundreds of customers have deserted, but because a handful of orders have failed to come through. 

 Steve Young, CNN Financial News, New York. 

 (END VIDEOTAPE) 

 VARNEY: Two brokerages top tonight`s other movers. Morgan Stanley (URL: http://www.msdw.com/) down 5 3/8. J.P. Morgan (URL: http://www.jpmorgan.com/) downgraded the company to a long-term buy. It said the stock is near its 52-week price target of $142 a share. Goldman Sachs down 3 1/2. J.P. Morgan cut its rating on that company to a market perform, and said its  stock is also near its $86 price target. And then there is theknot.com , up: 10 percent. Salomon Smith Barney started coverage on the online wedding services firm with a buy. It called the company a leader in  its field. 

 BAY: One sector not participating in today`s blue-chip comeback: cable stocks. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter downgraded Cox Communications (URL: http://www.cox.com/) and Cablevision (URL: http://www.cablevision.com/) to a neutral rating. It cited increased competition and both company`s valuation. Cox Communications fell 4 3/8. Cablevision Systems down more than 3. Other cable stocks also hit, Time Warner (URL: http://www.timewarner.com/) , the parent of this network, and Viacom (URL: http://www.viacom.com/) . 

 VARNEY: Coming up, we`ll hear what it was that won Steve Jobs a standing ovation at Mac world. 

 BAY: We`ll talk to the man himself, and ask him, what made him agree to be Apple`s CEO on more than an interim basis? 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 BAY: Apple Computer`s Steve Jobs finally made it official today, dropping the "interim" from the CEO title he has held for two and a half years. 

 At today`s MacWorld show, Jobs also unveiled the company`s new Internet strategy, and its new operating system. Apple plans to join forces with EarthLink (URL: http://www.earthlink.net/) and take a seat on the Internet service provider`s board. 

 Investors cheered all the news, sending the stock up 1 1/2 on an otherwise down day for tech stocks. Apple shares have soared more than fivefold since Jobs took the helm and turned the company`s hefty losses into healthy profits. 

 Steve Jobs joins us now from San Francisco to tell us more. 

 Steve, welcome back to MONEYLINE. STEVE JOBS, CEO, APPLE COMPUTER: Glad to be here. 

 BAY: So after two and a half years, what made you decide to drop that interim title? We thought you were kind of starting to like it? 

 JOBS: Yes, you know, it has been two and a half years now, and I was hoping that I -- we have been able to demonstrate to both the shareholders of Pixar (URL: http://www.pixar.com/) and the shareholders of Apple that I can kind of make this work with the senior teams at each company. And it just felt  like right time. 

 BAY: And just to confirm, you are going to continue to do both jobs? 

 JOBS: Oh, yes. Yes, I love being the CEO of Pixar, too. I would never want to give that up. And I think it`s time to drop the interim title at Apple, and hopefully everybody will be OK with this. 

 BAY: I gather by that standing ovation that people were more than OK with it. 

 JOBS: I hope so. 

 BAY: You also unveiled a new Internet strategy today... 

 JOBS: Right. 

 BAY: ... pairing up with EarthLink. Now, EarthLink gets access to your strong brand name and your loyal customers. What does Apple get out of the partnership? 

 JOBS: Well, we unveiled an Internet strategy that had a few parts to it, and pairing up with EarthLink was one of them. We love these guys. They are passionate like we are about providing the best Internet access to Mac customers. And they`re going to continue to be the default Internet provider on our set-up assistant that we ship with every computer in the U.S. 

 And we`re going to get to share in some of the rewards of that, and so Apple will profit every time a new Mac customer signs up with EarthLink. So I hope every Mac customer signs up with EarthLink if they want to help Apple. 

 BAY: So this kind of changes the economics of your business model, because you`ll have these recurring monthly revenues. 

 JOBS: We will definitely profit every time a customer signs up with EarthLink, and so that will definitely be really great for us. 

 There were some other parts of the Internet strategy, though, that are also key. 

 BAY: Which are? 

 JOBS: We introduced something called I-tools. You know, we looked around and said, where can we add value on the Internet? Yahoo! is great for content, Amazon`s great for e-commerce. And we realized that, you know, we have got ten million people a week coming to Apple.com, and  when they come most of them come on Macs and they`re running our operating system. And we realized that in that instance, we provide the software for both ends of the Internet, both services running on our servers and the operating system. And that we could do things with those things working together that no one else could do. 

 And so we -- as an example, one of the biggest problems on the Internet is it`s not safe for our kids, right? 

 BAY: Yes. 

 JOBS: And people have tried to solve that with filtering programs, but it  doesn`t work. That whole strategy is bankrupt. We have nailed it. We introduced one of our services, one of our I-tools today, called Kid Safe, that absolutely makes the Internet safe for our kids. 

 BAY: How does that work? 

 JOBS: The way it works is that currently filtering programs try to filter out the bad sites, but the Internet is growing so fast that there`s always new bad sites coming on faster than the filtering programs can react to them, so it doesn`t work. 

 The new strategy that we`re employing is rather than define what they cannot see, let`s specify what they can see, and if it`s not on that list they can`t go there. So Kid Safe downloads a module into our operating system on the personal computer, and when you type in a site that you want to go to, that module checks over the Internet with a Kid Safe database that we run, and it has over 50,000 safe, approved sites that are all approved by certified teachers and librarians. And if it`s on that list, it sends a signal back to the operating system saying let the kid go to that site, it is fine. If it`s not on that list, it sends a signal back saying you can`t go there. 

 BAY: Steve, I know you announced a whole bunch of things today, sorry we don`t have time for them all, but really thank you very much for joining us tonight. 

 JOBS: OK. 

 BAY: Congratulations. 

 JOBS: Thanks a lot. 

 VARNEY: Love that enthusiasm. 

 Up next, "AHEAD OF THE CURVE." Some of what you need to know tonight before the markets open tomorrow. 

 BAY: You are watching MONEYLINE. 

 (COMMERCIAL BREAK) 

 VARNEY: Interesting day shaping up for tomorrow. Investors will keep a close eye on Gateway. After the bell, it said fourth-quarter profits, revenue -- both will disappoint. Stock down 4 plus in late trading. 

 Beyond.com (URL: http://www.beyond.com/) , that is down more than $1. It warned of a revenue shortfall in the fourth quarter. 

 Watch Lehman Brothers -- latest profit results expected tomorrow. And also due out, home sales -- new home sales, and chain store sales, too. 

 BAY: And finally tonight, a story of better late then never. The house of Rothschild, whose banking business thrived in the 19th century, wants to rebuild itself for the new millennium. The Rothschild`s made their name bankrolling Britain`s purchase of the Suez Canal, and the country`s campaign against Napoleon. 

 But the high-profile firm missed out on Wall Street`s merger boom of the 20th century, especially the record deals of the past few years. Now, just  in time for century No. 21, the Rothschilds hired veteran deal- maker Gerald Rosenfeld, formerly of Lazard Freres. He has got the official task of raising Rothschild`s banking and M&A business -- ranking in M&A business, which tonight stands at 22. 

 That is MONEYLINE for this Wednesday. I`m Willow Bay. 

 VARNEY: And I`m Stuart Varney. Thanks for joining us. Good night from New York. 

 TO ORDER A VIDEO OF THIS TRANSCRIPT, PLEASE CALL 888-CNNFN-01 OR USE OUR SECURE ONLINE ORDER FORM LOCATED AT WWW.FDCH.COM 

 THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED. 

 Content and programming copyright 2000 Cable News Network, Inc.  ALL RIGHTS  RESERVED. Prepared by Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.  No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce  or redistribute the material except for user`s personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial  purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network, Inc.`s copyright or other proprietary rights or  interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute  limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder  of such material.  This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation. 

Document mnyl000020010808dw150005n




 BMC Software Surprises Investors With 3rd-Quarter  Profit Warning 

718 words
5 January 2000
15:59
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- BMC Software Inc. shocked Wall Street Wednesday by saying "underperformance" in North America would hurt third-quarter results. 

 The news sent its highflying stock reeling. At the close of trading, BMC (BMCS) shares were down $27.438, or 36%, at $49.563, on volume of 60.5 million, compared with average daily volume of 4.3 million. The huge drop comes just days after the stock set a 52-week high of $86.63. 

 In October, BMC warned that its fiscal second-quarter earnings would miss analyst views because of a sales shortfall in Europe, but that its third quarter appeared on track. 

 The Houston-based maker of software that speeds up corporate networks said Wednesday it expects to report earnings for the quarter ended December of around 44 cents a share. The mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call/Thomson Financial was for earnings of 53 cents per share. In the year-ago quarter, BMC earned $99.7 million, or 44 cents a share, on revenue of $283.4 million. The company said that earnings excluding goodwill and amortization would have been $110 million, or 44 cents a share, on revenue of $344.1 million. 

 The company expects revenue this quarter of between $420 million and $430 million. The estimate excludes goodwill and amortization. 

 Because accounting regulators have cracked down on the use of acquisition-related charges, many companies have been forced to record as intangible assets certain amounts that were previously written off in one lump charge. Intangible assets are amortized over their useful life as an ordinary expense. Although amortization costs are routine business expenses, some firms report what their results would have been without such expenses. 

 In a conference call with analysts, BMC Chief Executive Max Watson said weak North America license revenue growth was the "greatest source" of the license revenue shortfall. 

 "Customers did not take the time to negotiate software purchases in the last week of December," Watson said. That is not good news for a firm whose business is admittedly back-end loaded and dependent on large transactions. 

 "The trend in MIPS (millions of instructions per second) growth continues to be strong, but customers were not willing to execute large transactions," Watson said. "We cannot determine if this will continue" in coming quarters. 

 Watson didn't field questions from listeners on the call, saying he hadn't "had the time to thoroughly massage the numbers and understand their nuances." He promised further guidance when BMC reports its results Jan. 25. 

 Although a favorite among Wall Street analysts and investors last year -- the stock climbed 81% in 1999 -- sentiment turned against BMC Wednesday, with at least two analysts downgrading the stock. 

 Merrill Lynch analyst Chris Shilakes lowered his opinion on the software firm to "near-term neutral" from "buy" and to "long-term accumulate" from "buy." He cut his earnings estimates, saying he doesn't expect earnings to recover quickly. 

 "We are unsure if weakness is from distributed systems or mainframe but we believe even if mainframe was weak and distributed systems came in as we expected we would not be seeing such a shortfall," Shilakes wrote early Wednesday. 

 Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown analyst Chris Mortenson also downgraded the stock to "buy" from "strong buy" and cut his earnings outlook, citing two consecutive weak sales quarters and "probable weakness in the mainframe business." 

 ABN AMRO analyst Bob Johnson said that given the size of the expected shortfall it is likely several large deals fell through late in the quarter. 

 "It caught up with them at end of the September quarter and it appears there was a continuation of that in the December quarter," he said. 

 Johnson was one of the few who had been cautious on BMC recently. On Dec. 9 he lowered his rating to "outperform" from "buy," citing valuation concerns. Given the stock's rise "there is no room for error," he said. 

 BMC's warning further pressured other mainframe software stocks in a weak session for technology issues. Mercury Interactive Corp. (MERQ), Computer Associates International Inc. (CA), BEA Systems Inc. (BEAS), CompuWare Corp. (CPWR) and Oracle Corp. (ORCL) were all down in afternoon trading. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dw1500wjy




 Nasdaq hits new session low in late trade. 

 By Kristin Roberts 
346 words
4 January 2000
20:26
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 4 (Reuters) - Nasdaq dropped to new session lows in late afternoon trading on Tuesday as fears of rising interest rates permeated the technology sector. 

 The Nasdaq composite index dropped 4.67 percent, or 193 points, to 3,938.07 a day after logging a record high of 4,131.15. The index's slide topped its all-time point-decline of 140.43, logged on Aug. 31, 1998, according to statistics from the Nasdaq stock market. 

 The broader market fell as well, with the Dow Jones industrial average, including two Nasdaq stocks, down 356 points to 11,001. 

 The New York Stock Exchange imposed programme trading curbs after the blue-chips fell more than 220 points, and that sparked a quickening of Nasdaq's slide. 

 Many market watchers have predicted a pullback of up to 20 percent in the Nasdaq, which surged an unprecedented 85 percent in 1999. A 10 percent drop, often referred to as a correction, would pin the composite index at 3,718.04. 

 FreeMarkets Inc., an auction site for business-to-business supplies, tumbled 67-7/8 to 274. The company said General Motors Corp. had cancelled its business with FreeMarkets. Before the announcement, three Wall Street firms started coverage of FreeMarkets with bullish "buy" and "market outperform" ratings. 

 DoubleClick Inc. fell 23 points to 245. AG Edwards cut its rating on the stock to "maintain" from "accumulate." 

 Parametric Technology Corp. was Nasdaq's most active stock, falling 5-5/16 to 19-13/16 after a profit warning from the maker of software that helps design everything from car engines to Atlas rockets. 

 Big name technology stocks fell. Qualcomm Inc. lost 13-3/4 to 165-9/16. Microsoft Corp. fell 2-1/4 to 114-5/16. 

 Oracle Corp. dropped 10 to 108-1/8 after senior executives filed to sell more than $112 million worth of stock in the world's biggest database software maker. 

 ((-Wall Street Desk 212-859-1730)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw1407yb0




 Nasdaq drops on Fed fears, plays catch-up on bonds. 

 By Kristin Roberts 
628 words
4 January 2000
19:08
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 4 (Reuters) - Nasdaq compounded its losses in mid-afternoon trading on Tuesday, falling more than 4 percent in a widespread sell-off sparked by heightened worries about interest rates. 

 The Nasdaq composite index dropped 4.36 percent, then steadied down 3.68 percent, or 152 points, at 3,979. 

 The drop in the tech-driven index topped its all-time point-decline of 140.43, logged on Aug. 31, 1998, according to statistics from the Nasdaq stock market. 

 The broader market tumbled as well, with the Dow Jones industrial average, including two Nasdaq stocks, down 259 points to 11,098. 

 The New York Stock Exchange imposed programme trading curbs after the blue-chips fell more than 220 points, and that sparked a quickening of Nasdaq's slide. 

 "I think it's postponed profit-taking and a delayed reaction of what is happening on the rate front, said Arnold Berman, technology strategist at SoundView Technology Group. "We saw a decoupling between the action in the Nasdaq and the bond market yesterday and today are getting a catch-up move." 

 Allen Sinai, chief global economist at Primark Decision Economics, said, "I just think it is overdue, and it makes all kinds of sense. Until we get through the next two weeks with the data and the Fed, I don't know why anyone would want to trade stocks." 

 Many market watchers have predicted a pullback of up to 20 percent in the Nasdaq, which surged an unprecedented 85 percent in 1999. A 10 percent drop, often referred to as a correction, would pin the composite index at 3,718.04. 

 "I think there is a full realisation that the stock and bond market is linked in a way that prevents the stock market from going higher," said Richard Cripps, chief market strategist at Legg Mason Wood Walker. 

 "What I sense is a willingness to button in more profits. Today more than yesterday there is more realisation that the market has topped out," he said. 

 Nasdaq resisted Wall Street's broader decline on Monday as the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond fell 1-23/32, pushing the yield to a 27-month high at 6.62 percent. In afternoon trading on Tuesday, the long-bond rose 30/32, with the yield at 6.54 percent. 

 Analysts said investors began selling after realising that the absence of computer glitches related to the year 2000 could be a factor that further boosts the U.S. economy and leads the U.S. Federal Reserve to raise interest rates in February. 

 "In my opinion, we are going to have difficult times ahead. This is a beginning," said Ricky Harrington, technical analyst and senior vice president at Wachovia Securities in Charlotte, N.C. 

 The Nasdaq 100 index of top Nasdaq stocks was down 136 points, or 3.61 percent, to 3653. Software giant and Dow component Microsoft Corp. fell 1-1/8 to 115-3/8. 

 Qualcomm Inc., Nasdaq's star stock of 1999, fell back 14-9/16 to 164-3/4. 

 FreeMarkets Inc., an auction site for business-to-business supplies, dropped 38-7/16 to 303-7/16. The company said General Motors Corp. had cancelled its business with FreeMarkets. Before the announcement, three Wall Street firms started coverage of FreeMarkets with bullish "buy" and "market outperform" ratings. 

 DoubleClick Inc. fell 18 points to 250. AG Edwards cut its rating on the stock to "maintain" from "accumulate." 

 Parametric Technology Corp. was Nasdaq's most active stock, falling 5-7/8 to 19-1/4 after a profit warning from the maker of software that helps design everything from car engines to Atlas rockets. 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw1407ya0




 FOCUS-Baan slumps on CEO departure, loss forecast. 

 By Sara Ledwith, European Technology Correspondent 
695 words
4 January 2000
14:37
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 LONDON, Jan 4 (Reuters) - Shares in Baan Company NV, Europe's second-largest business software firm, fell by over 34 percent on Tuesday as its chief executive quit and it forecast a fourth-quarter loss after a hefty restructuring charge. 

 Baan said the loss could be up to $250 million with a revamp including job cuts costing $200 million. Analysts had expected a recovery for the group this year after its business was hit by a pre-millennium slowdown in business spending on new software. 

 "This is again bad news for the company which had bad problems in 1998 and 1999," said Cornelis Bos, an analyst at ING Barings. "The reorganisation charge is very high. They already had a substantial reorganisation at the beginning of 1999." 


Baan's stock was down 33.3 percent at 9.86 euros at 1430 GMT, about 50 percent behind the DJStoxx pan-European technology index	   which it has underperformed since October.
The fall hit other technology shares, including the largest European business software firm SAP		   of Germany, which lost 3.8 percent, and French software consultancy Cap Gemini , which was down 4.3 percent.



Baan, which reported a fifth consecutive quarterly loss in the third-quarter but had recently given a more upbeat outlook, said the reorganisation would let it focus on "open integration".



That is a buzzword for harnessing the Internet's power to let customers link up with business partners. In the past Baan had made a name with its enterprise resource planning systems that integrate in-house administration like salaries and staffing. But recently U.S. rivals like Siebel  and Ariba have taken a lead over European companies by opening up broader networks using the Internet.



COLEMAN KEY



Departing CEO Mary Coleman, who returns to Silicon Valley after taking charge only last May, was seen as key to reviving Baan's fortunes and gearing it up for the Internet challenge.



"We are worried that ... the heavy losses and the CEO leaving will dent customers' confidence. This reduces revenue and earnings visibility for 2000, the year in which it is all supposed to happen," brokerage Enskilda said in a research note.



Analysts downgraded their forecasts after the company's announcements on Tuesday, with HSBC and others cutting it to a rarely seen "sell".



Others said the news would make it harder for Baan to attract new customers, and the suggestion of low morale behind Coleman's departure could bring into question its grip on its existing customer base.



Pierre Everaert, 60, current chairman of Baan's Supervisory Board, will replace Coleman as interim chief executive officer while the search for a permanent CEO is underway.



COST CUTS



Baan said the restructuring would cost $200 million in the fourth quarter, but mostly not in cash. It will close 14 offices and cut staff by about four percent, or about 188 people.



Baan said the reorganisation would cut its costs by about $25 million per quarter, enabling it to continue investing in electronic commerce research and development.



"To me it looks like a hidden profit warning. This new strategy is being used to mask the bad profit news," said Louis Hakkenberg of Nationale Investeringsbank.



A fourth-quarter revenue forecast of $140 million to $150 million and a projected increase in licence revenue of 50 percent in the same period failed to impress. Third-quarter revenues had fallen to $143 million from $195 million in 1998.



Baan's third-quarter loss at $24.7 million was already below market forecasts, but its Chief Financial Officer Jim Mooney had said in November the company planned to get back in the black in 2000, even allowing for a shift in its product pricing.



Some analysts saw Baan as a possible takeover target if its stock were to weaken to around its 12-month low of just over six euros last March.



"If the share drops to seven euros the company could be ripe for a takeover, and that is probably the best," said Thijs Berkelder of HSBC.



(Additional reporting by Jana Sanchez in Amsterdam).



(C) Reuters Limited 2000.


Document lba0000020010821dw1407wqr




 Nasdaq logs biggest point fall in broad sell-off. 

 By Kristin Roberts 
788 words
4 January 2000
21:37
Reuters News
LBA
English
(c) 2000 Reuters Limited

 NEW YORK, Jan 4 (Reuters) - Nasdaq was beaten back on Tuesday with its biggest one-day point decline ever as fears that the Federal Reserve may boost interest rates finally permeated the technology sector. 

 The Nasdaq composite index dropped 5.56 percent, or 229.95 points to 3,901.20 a day after logging a record high of 4,131.15. The slide topped the index's previous all-time point-decline of 140.43, logged on Aug. 31, 1998, according to the Nasdaq market. In percentage terms Tuesday's decline was the 8th largest drop in NASDAQ history. 

 The broader market also fell, with the Dow Jones industrial average, including two Nasdaq names, down 359.58 points, or 3.17 percent, to 10,997.93. The Standard & Poor's 500 index lost 55.80 points, or 3.83 percent, to 1,399.42. 

 Late in the afternoon, the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond's price was up 1-3/32 at 94-19/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, dipped to 6.53 percent from a 27-month high of 6.62 percent on Monday. 

 Analysts said a high bond yield, data indicating an ever strong U.S. economy and the sheer absence of computer problems from the year 2000 spooked Wall Street, pulling bellwether names off the stellar gains seen over the last two months. 

 "Markets cannot go straight up, especially when there are concerns about inflation," said Allen Sinai, chief global economist at Primark Decision Economics. 

 "I just think it is overdue, and it makes all kinds of sense. Until we get though the the next two week with the data and the Fed, I don't know why anyone would want to trade stocks," he said. 

 The New York Stock Exchange imposed programme trading curbs after the blue-chips fell more than 220 points, and that sparked a quickening of Nasdaq's slide. 

 Many market watchers have predicted a pullback of up to 20 percent in Nasdaq, which surged an unprecedented 85 percent in 1999. A 10 percent drop, often referred to as a correction, would pin the composite index at 3,718.04. 

 "I think it's postponed profit-taking and a delayed reaction of what is happening on the rate front," said Arnold Berman, technology strategist at SoundView Technology Group. 

 "We saw a decoupling between the action in the Nasdaq and the bond market yesterday and today we're getting a catch up move," he said. 

 Nasdaq resisted Wall Street's broader decline on Monday as the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond fell 1-23/32 on Monday, pushing that yield to a 27-month high at 6.62 percent. 

 The sell-off was broadbased. Declining stocks hammered advancers by 3,124 to 1,139 on Nasdaq as 142 issues hit fresh highs compared with 71 at new lows. Volume was strong with 1.49 billion shares traded. 

 Nasdaq's big seven stocks, which together account for roughly 30 percent of the entire composite index, all lost ground. 

 The Nasdaq 100 index of top stocks dropped 224.10 points, or 6.44 percent, to 3,546.45. Software giant and Dow component Microsoft Corp. fell 3-15/16 to 112-5/8. Qualcomm Inc., Nasdaq's star stock of 1999, fell 17-1/4 to 162-1/16. 

 Oracle Corp., the world's biggest database software maker, lost 10-7/16 to 107-11/16. Senior Oracle executives filed with federal regulators to sell more than $112 million worth of the company's shares. 

 FreeMarkets Inc. was one of Nasdaq's biggest losers. The auction site for business-to-business supplies, tumbled 63-3/8 to 278-1/2. The company said General Motors Corp. had cancelled its business with FreeMarkets. Before the announcement, three Wall Street firms started coverage of FreeMarkets with bullish "buy" and "market outperform" ratings. 

 Internet shares dropped and TheStreet.com's Internet index lost 82.77 points, or 6.79 percent, to 1,135.58 while the Dow Jones Internet index fell 29.72 points, or 6.84 percent, to 404.47. 

 DoubleClick Inc. fell 30-15/16 points to 237-1/16. AG Edwards cut its rating on the stock to "maintain" from "accumulate." 

 Yahoo! Inc. closed off 32 at 443 after touching a fresh intraday high of 500-1/8 in early trading. 

 Parametric Technology Corp. was one of Nasdaq's most active stocks, falling 5-1/8 to 20 after a profit warning from the maker of software that helps design everything from car engines to Atlas rockets. 

 ((-Wall Street Desk 212-859-1730)). 

 (C) Reuters Limited 2000. 

Document lba0000020010821dw1405huy




 Alterra Healthcare Shares Take Drubbing On Heels Of  Profit Warning 

424 words
4 January 2000
18:36
Dow Jones Business News
DJON
English
 (Copyright (c) 2000, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.) 

 NEW YORK -(Dow Jones)- Shares of Alterra Healthcare Corp. tumbled Tuesday after the operator of assisted-living residences warned late Monday that it expects to post a fourth-quarter pretax loss. 

 Although Alterra didn't provide per-share estimates, news of a loss came as a big surprise to analysts, who were projecting earnings of 23 cents a diluted share, excluding charges, according to the mean estimate of a survey by First Call/Thomson Financial. 

 "I had an estimate for the quarter at 24 cents a share," said SG Cowen & Co. analyst Kemp Dolliver. "It's a big miss." For the year-ago fourth quarter, Alterra Healthcare, then known as Alternative Living Services Inc., earned $6.3 million, or 27 cents a share, on revenue of $76.5 million. 

 Shares of the Brookfield, Wis.-based company fell as low as $5.063 earlier in the session, dipping below the previous 52-week low of $5.375 set Sept. 22. At the close of trading, Alterra shares (ALI) were off $1.50, or 20%, at $6.188. Volume was 1.4 million, compared with a daily average of 185,900 shares. 

 Alterra also said Tuesday that previously announced plans to cut back on site-development projects would trigger a one-time fourth-quarter charge of between $38 million and $43 million. The charge is for the write-down of carrying costs of development sites, costs of a planned reduction in development activities and the discontinuation of operations of its construction unit, and the write-off of costs associated with construction-loan credit lines that won't be fully used. 

 Among other strategic developments announced Tuesday, Alterra said it hired Merrill Lynch & Co. to help negotiate a capital infusion from an unnamed private investor. The company expects to complete the deal by the end of first-quarter 2000. 

 In addition, Alterra said it is acquiring 19 residences it currently operates on a leased basis. Seven of the residences, representing about half of the $62 million investment, were purchased by Alterra in December 1999, and the company said it plans to acquire the remaining 12 by the end of January. 

 Alterra said the purchases would result in future depreciation and amortization expenses but added that it expects increased ownership of its residences to help boost revenue to more than $500 million in 2000. For 1998, Alternative Living Services reported revenue of $244.4 million. 

 Copyright (c) 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 

 All Rights Reserved. 

Document djon000020020330dw1400v1d


 Creating Value. 

2,614 words
1 January 2000
Best's Review
BSTS
10
ISSN: 1527-5914; Volume 100; Issue 9
English
 Copyright 2000 Information Access Company. All rights reserved. COPYRIGHT 2000 A.M. Best Company, Inc. 

 Performance Management: For innovative insurers, ensuring viability means finding new ways to create and measure value. 

 In today's dynamic market, with traditional and nontraditional competitors becoming more aggressive and financial-service deregulation a reality, effective performance management has become critical to securing an insurer's future viability. Increasingly, innovative insurers are utilizing more-sophisticated performance-benchmarking tools to measure and manage value creation. 

 Because property/casualty insurance remains an inherently volatile business, it demands cutting-edge risk management tools that optimize the trade-off between risk and return. Best-of-breed insurers will have to employ effective risk-management strategies and performance-benchmarking techniques to consistently meet or exceed stakeholder expectations. In today's tight labor market, such value-added organizations will better attract and retain top talent. In turn, that will foster innovation and help execute strategic objectives. 

 Creating or Destroying Value? 

 To succeed, insurers will have to adopt a flexible strategic plan that leverages their organization's core competencies. They will also embrace a forward-looking business model that measures the effectiveness of an insurer's core activities. That in turn will involve increased business partnering. 

 Central to value creation will be an insurer's ability to respond quickly and effectively to customers' increasing demands for convenience, service, low-cost, customized-risk solutions and financial security. Customers are becoming more discerning and empowered in their insurance buying decisions. That's a result of increased price transparency in commodity lines brought by the Internet, and integrated-risk solutions required by risk managers of large and mid-sized commercial businesses. 

 From a financial perspective, value creation is evidenced by sustained results that exceed a company's cost of capital, or in meeting stakeholder expectations. Regardless of ownership structure, all insurers have stakeholders with identifiable performance expectations. 

 More insurers--even beyond the ranks of publicly traded insurers--are embracing the concepts of value-creation and performance benchmarking. Performance benchmarks vary by insurer. They can be based on income levels, operating returns, risk-adjusted returns or shareholder value. Typically, the goal of mutual insurers is to increase surplus levels and enhance policyholder security. That becomes the means to build capital bases to offset claims inflation, absorb unexpected losses and support future growth. 

 Ownership structure and operating environment can affect the choice of performance objectives. For example, in its rating evaluation, A.M. Best acknowledges that mutual companies and subsidiaries of European-based stock insurers have a lower cost of capital. As a result, those companies can assume a longer-term strategic view that emphasizes balance-sheet strength over maximizing near-term earnings. 

 Two leading mutual insurers, Nationwide and Liberty Mutual, exhibit superior balance-sheet strength and sustainable competitive advantages but also target operating returns lower than their stock counterparts' goals. However, their target returns comfortably exceed their inherently lower cost-of-capital requirements. Their objectives remain competitive enough to instill a performance mindset and focus on improved efficiency within their respective organizations. 

 Too often, publicly traded U.S.-based insurers can focus too intently on generating top-line growth and meeting high standards for return on equity, shortchanging their operating fundamentals and loss reserves in the process. That tendency was evidenced by sizable reserve additions announced by Reliance, Frontier, Fremont and Acceptance in 1999. 

 Leveraging Performance Drivers 

 Enhancing performance and creating value come through leveraging core competencies and are achieved by adjusting the operational and financial "dials" that have the most impact for a given organization. Performance levers typically relate to managing risks, loss reserves, claims, expenses and investments. 

 The manner in which incentives are used to help management achieve those results have a direct bearing on the execution. Through the use of clear benchmarks, it is possible to instill a greater performance ethic in the organization and attract and retain innovative employees able to support strategic objectives. 

 To date, insurers have been reluctant to adopt models that have been employed by manufacturing and service-based industries, such as Economic- or Marketbased Value Analysis. Instead, many have begun focusing on risk-adjusted measures that emphasize return on equity or return on allocated capital. Stock companies have led the way with a focus on measuring return on equity, although innovative mutual insurers have been willing to consider those forms of bench- marking. Ultimately, both groups must consider whether profits cover the cost of capital, plus provide additional margins to achieve other goals. Those goals could be to support further growth or return funds to stakeholders. The cost of capital may be higher for stock companies, based on the need to pay dividends and service debt. 

 Measuring Up 

 A combination of better technology and a willingness to measure strategic goals and capital-allocation decisions across the board has spurred companies to find new ways to measure results. Tools include dynamic financial analysis, enterprise-resource technology-based reporting systems and greater sharing of financial information. 

 By determining the drivers of value--both financial and operational--companies will better be able to develop corporate strategy, manage risk and return, and measure performance. More importantly, execution will drive success. In today's business model, operational drivers must support financial objectives. Revenue growth needs to be supported by distribution, market positioning and technology. However, growth objectives and deployment of capital must be calibrated with risk-adjusted returns and supported by conservative underwriting and reserving standards. In addition, a company's cost of capital and expense structure must be considered in making decisions affecting pricing, claims handling and obtaining reinsurance. 

 The Two Sides to Diversification 

 Historically, diversified revenue streams have led to greater earnings stability because profitable businesses compensate for under-performing units. Some of the largest, most broadly diversified insurers--organizations such as American International Group, Travelers, and Hartford--have helped achieve performance stability based on a broad mix of property/casualty, life/health and financial-service products and services. These multiline units have also maintained a tight focus on measuring profit centers through performance-based accountability. At a corporate level, management limits the downside of nonperforming units through controls and early warning systems. 

 Detecting problems early is important, given today's softmarket conditions. A growing number of companies have reported that 10% to 20% of their business has shown poor results and weak fundamentals, which in turn has imperiled the "acceptable" performance of their remaining books of business. 

 Discrete business units may complement one another, but insurers are finding that each unit must be able to stand on its own for the enterprise to benefit. Although integration between ACE Group and Cigna's former commercial units is still in its early stages, ACE was willing to trade outstanding returns on its more-volatile excess-casualty business for lower but more-stable diversified commercial-lines earnings. On the other hand, other traditionally multiline insurers such as CNA, St. Paul and Allstate have recently shed business units that weren't deemed strategic or that didn't generate returns that covered their respective costs of capital. 

 For specialty insurers, managing performance is a greater challenge because they lack the diversity of earnings available to multilines. Specialty insurers can experience more volatile and cyclical results than their multi-line counterparts or when compared to insurers with greater diversity in products. As a result, focusing on fundamentals becomes even more important. California's workers' compensation market is a prime example of a specialty segment now in the throes of extremely poor market conditions, exacerbated by the controversies surrounding the Unicover pool and similar arrangements. Rates may rise in that market, but some insurers have risked their autonomy--if not their solvency--by pursuing market share through aggressive pricing, then passing underpriced business to reinsurers. They now face the prospect that those obligations may be returned following the possible rescission of Unicover-related and other low-level-retention reinsurance agreements. 

 The Appetite for Risk 

 The essence of insurance is found in identifying, quantifying and managing risk within defined parameters. Without these fundamental skills, insurers are vulnerable to unexpected earnings volatility, and negative market reactions. 

 Today, A.M. Best is encouraged that most companies prudently use sophisticated risk-management tools to quantify their exposures to catastrophes and to manage property concentrations. While not precise, catastrophe modeling represents the best technological tool available to quantify an insurer's potential loss exposure to natural perils. Models continue to be refined. Catastrophe modeling plays a vital role in identifying, monitoring and managing a company's exposure and protecting its financial strength. 

 Based on proprietary information shared in the rating process, A.M. Best believes most insurers have established prudent catastrophe risk levels when calculating the impact of severe single-occurrence losses (for example, losses from a 100-year hurricane or a 250-year earthquake) on their capital base or earnings. However, few insurers, share their catastrophe risk parameters with the marketplace. One exception is Allstate, which has consistently identified a $1 billion ceiling for a single, severe catastrophe. Articulating a company's risk appetite--the impact on capital of a severe single occurrence and on earnings for expected annual aggregate losses--will allow the marketplace to better respond to an insurer's "unexpected" shock losses. Over time, articulating these parameters can help temper negative reactions from investors, managers, regulators and rating agencies. 

 Maintaining Safety Margins in Reserves 

 This is the 12th year of "soft" commercial market conditions. A.M. Best remains concerned that many companies have been writing business at prices well below expected loss costs. 

 Too frequently, insurers--virtually all of them stock companies--have "shorted" the current accident year. That is being done by reporting combined ratios that are unrealistically low or by reporting an artificially low loss ratio on a particular line of business based on allocating reserves that have been set aside for prior years. Writers of personal auto and workers' compensation coverage have benefited from prior-year reserve redundancies. With the exception of several auto writers, those cushions have vanished. The "pain phase" is well under way and A.M. Best expects a significant number of insurers to report loss reserve shortfall surprises throughout the coming year. These announcements will compromisc insurers' balance sheets, wipe out prior profits--proving they were illusory--and in many instances cost overly aggressive insurers their independence. 

 Not surprisingly, mutual insurers have reported few material reserve adjustments in recent years, since they are less inclined than their stock counterparts to prop up reported results. 

 Reduced Expense Ratios--Finally? 

 Admittedly, the expense ratio is a crude measure of efficiency. Nevertheless, the disparity in expense ratios, or level of relative efficiency, across much of the property/casualty industry is glaring. It is particularly acute within the personal lines and standard commercial lines segments where critical mass, scale and efficiency are keys to survival in today's consolidating marketplace. At the same time, many smaller and regional companies are seeing their historic advantage of more-favorable loss ratios erode. 

 These factors are forcing companies to restructure as a means of streamlining back-office operations and reducing overhead. However, constrained premium growth means restructuring may not be enough. Even low-cost providers such as Allstate and Liberty Mutual announced significant restructuring during 1999 to stay ahead of the curve. 

 Insurers have sought to reduce expense ratios through greater dependence on technology, streamlining the back office, spreading fixed costs over a broader base of business, and cutting facilities and personnel, with mixed results. Many mergers and acquisitions have been announced for the stated reason of gaining economies of scale and reducing expenses; however, few have been well executed or it is too early to validate their success. The industry standard remains the l996 acquisition of Aetna's property/casualty business by Travelers. 

 More insurers will Likely focus on cutting expenses by building new state-of-the-art agency interfaces and processing systems, replacing fragmented and cumbersome legacy systems. Further, we expect insurers will write a larger share of new business through lower-cost distribution channels, including the Internet. Despite concerns over channel conflict, insurers have little choice but to focus on lowering acquisition costs, which account for roughly two-thirds of the industry's expense ratio. 

 With financial-service deregulation a reality, strategic alliances should increase dramatically as a means of expanding marketing and distribution beyond insurers' traditional boundaries. For example, in 1999, Hartford announced an agreement to sell insurance to car buyers through Ford dealerships. Well-conceived alliances offer a huge opportunity for insurers to grow their core business and create "virtual critical mass," based on lower fixed costs and shorter lead times. Local and regional insurers, which traditionally enjoy a loss-ratio advantage, may have the most to gain through strategic alliances with local business partners as a means to create virtual critical mass. 

 Low-Hanging Fruit 

 Investment management has become increasingly important because of the difficulty in enhancing underwriting profitability. Given lower interest rates, the challenge has increased for insurers to maximize the return on their portfolio without overextending asset risk. However, modest improvements in a property/casualty insurer's investment yield can have a greater, more immediate impact on the bottom line than can an equivalent improvement in the loss or expense ratio. McKinsey & Co. estimates that bottom-line impact of a 10-basis-point increase in investment performance is equivalent to a 25-basis-point decrease in the loss ratio or a 35-basis-point decline in the expense ratio. 

 Property/casualty insurers traditionally have not maximized their investment returns, often due to self-imposed limitations. Most companies have maintained that they take risk on the liability side of their balance sheet and are therefore adverse to take risk on the asset side. As a result, they have focused on net investment income as a more dependable driver of earnings. Regulatory, tax and asset/liability matching constraints can limit flexibility. As underwriting margins further compress, well-capitalized insurers may run a greater risk--and opportunity cost--by not investing prudently in equities to enhance their total investment return. 

 Similar to A.M. Best's increased incorporation of total risk-adjusted returns into its rating evaluation, companies such as Fireman's Fund, Winterthur Swiss, Farmers and Swiss Re are factoring some recurring unrealized capital gains into their investment strategies, performance benchmarking and capital-allocation decisions. 

 The key to maximizing investment performance is establishing appropriate, individualized benchmarks that reflect corporate objectives and constraints. Benchmarks for duration, investment earning targets and strategic asset allocation should consider asset-liability issues, underwriting performance, reserve adequacy, liquidity needs and corporate taxes. Sophisticated companies are more willing to invest in developing the expertise in this area, either through in-house staff or by outsourcing certain asset classes. For competitive reasons, there will likely be more outsourcing of this function to third-party asset managers. 

 New Tools for New Times 

 Performance remains an integral component of A.M. Best's rating evaluation. A year ago, we expanded our operating performance tests beyond traditional reported measures and increased our emphasis on prospective, risk-adjusted returns relative to premiums and surplus. Many of our performance measures include three adjustments to "even the playing field" and provide a clearer picture of a company's historic and prospective profitability. Many of Best's measures reflect an insurer's ultimate accident-year underwriting results, including an annual aggregate catastrophe-loss estimate provided by companies, and provides a 7% credit for unrealized stock gains. 

 We believe these prospective measures, combined with our risk-adjusted approach to historical measures, provide a more accurate gauge of a company's ability to sustain long-term operating performance. 

 A.M. Best actively discusses with companies their internal performance measurements and capital-allocation methodologies, while sharing our performance benchmarks used in the rating process. 

FULL TEXT

Document bsts000020010804dw110002c

Search Summary

 Text((“profit*” same “warning*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”))) OR ((“profit*” same “fall*”) and (“cautious*” OR “cut” OR “decline” OR “depreciat*” OR “dilutive” OR (“disappointment” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “earning*”) OR (“downgrade*” same “dividend*”) OR (“failure” same “profit*”) or (“headwind” same “profit*”) (“weak* same “profit*”) OR (“headwind” same “profit*”)))   Date01/01/2000 to 01/31/2000   SourceAll Sources   AuthorAll Authors   CompanyAll Companies   SubjectCorporate/Industrial News   IndustryAll Industries   RegionUnited States   LanguageEnglish   Results Found77   Timestamp27 March 2018 9:53  
 Page 52 of 52     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.


 

 Page 1     © 2018 Factiva, Inc.  All rights reserved.

